AAHP 605; Toney; Page2



AAHP 605; Toney; Pag1e0



AAHP 605; Toney; Pag1e1



AAHP 605; Toney; Pag2e0



AAHP 605; Toney; Pag2e1



AAHP 605; Toney; Pag3e0



AAHP 605; Toney; Pag3e1







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 605 Hubert Toney 6-1-2018 Interviewed by Julian Valdivia on June 1, 2018

68 minutes | 38 pages



Abstract: Julian Valdivia sits down with Hubert and Betty Toney, an elderly African American couple living in Fort Meyers, Florida. Hubert Toney was born in Casper, Georgia, and moved to Fort Meyers in the late 1950s to attend the Dunbar School. Betty was born and raised in Fort Meyers and also attended the Dunbar School. She recalls the hardships of earning an education during Jim Crow, remembering that her textbooks and class materials were typically received second-hand from White schools. She remembers the immense effort of her teachers to overcome these barriers in order to impart a decent education on herself and other students. Hubert went to work for a local construction company before he was hired by Jerome Lumber, where he worked for

fifty-seven years. The couple finished school prior to integration, but observed the challenges faced by their children during the integration of local schools including Edison Park and Fort Meyers High School. They remember the violence between students in schools, recalling that two of their family members were caught up in a racially motivated riot at a newly integrated high school. In spite of these barriers, the couple’s son went on to earn a PhD in music, which he uses to teach music in Tampa. The couple also remember the importance of the local Friendship Baptist Church in organizing protest efforts towards integration and uniting the Black community of Fort Meyers. Hubert remembers the efforts of participants in sit-ins and other forms of protest, and the mistreatment they incurred at the hands of White segregationists. The couple express their frustration with the closure of several Black institutions in the community after integration, including the Dunbar School and the Jones Walker Hospital. They remember the subtle passage of legislation which restricted Democrat voters from casting ballots while empowering their Republican counterparts. Other efforts, such as jerrymandering, re-locating of polling places, and confusing wording on voting documents, also blocked Black voters.



Keywords: [Fort Meyers, Lee County, Black history, Dunbar, segregation, integration, labor history, Baptist church, music education, NAACP]



AAHP 605

Interviewee: Hubert Toney Interviewer: Julian Valdivia Date: June 1, 2018



V:  My name is Julian Valdivia. I'm with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, and I'm here in Fort Myers, Florida, at the Lee County Black History Society in Roberto Clemente Park. Today, I'm sitting with -

HT:  Hubert Toney.



	V:	Alright. And the Toney's, to my understanding, are very popular in the city of Fort Myers. That's really cool [Laughter]. Alright, um, well, I just wanna ask you guys some basic information first. Just about growing up here, I know, Mr. Toney you already said that you came here in [19]56.

HT:  Unh-uh.



	V:	But, I’d like to ask your lovely wife how she grew up first. HT:	Okay, here in Fort Myers.

	V:	Okay, here in Fort Myers.



	BT:	My first place was 25 Line St. Fort Myers, Florida. I went to school at Dunbar High School. I'm a graduate of Dunbar high school.

	V:	Alright, and Mr. Toney, where did you grow up originally?



	HT:	I grew up in Casper, Georgia, what you call Randolph County, west of Albany.



Called Casper, Georgia.



	V:	Okay, I think I know about that, ‘cause Albany is kinda in the southwestern corner, right?

	HT:	Yeah. That's where I grew up and went to school until the seventh grade. Then, when I came down here, I went late to Dunbar, and finished Dunbar, got my





diploma at Dunbar, I went out to Edison and ended with a mini-credit unit. It was twenty-two. It was Edison Junior College at that time, yes.

	V:	And, so how old were you then? ‘Cause I know you said you came here to finish up your school.

	HT:	Eighteen, I had turned eighteen in September, and I came down here in October in [19]56.

	V:	Alright, so you came here much later on, once you were pretty much grown, then. Okay, Betty, I wanna ask about— wait, I got that right?

	HT:	Yeah.



	V:	Okay, perfect. I was just making sure of the names, that you go by Betty. So if I could ask, then, what was it like growing up in Fort Myers under segregation, then?

	BT:		It was very hard, we could never get new books, new materials. We always got stuff from Fort Myers High, or elementary, whatever. Everything was just second- handed down. I couldn't remember going to the typing class, and we would race to get to that one typewriter that would work. And that, books second-hand, everything was second-hand. But, the teachers were very good. They knew what we needed, and we just learned discipline right up.

	V:	So, wait in your typing class, they only had one type-writer that worked? BT:	One type-writer.

	V:	Out of like, how many? Was there just like a row of them? ‘Cause I've never done a typing class before.

	BT:	Yeah, they had out four or five typewriters in there, but you only had one working.





	V:	Okay, so growing up then, at least like, in the school system, where any of you ever— did any of you actively wanna see integration? You wanted to have access to the materials, maybe? At like Fort Myers high school and things like that?

	BT:	No. The teachers was very good, they made sure you learned, I'm telling you those teachers was very strict. You just didn't do everything you wanted. Mr. Baker, Ethelio Backer was the principal. I can't think of the— I'm trying to, but he died.

	HT:	I can't remember. Mr. Saster.



	BT:	Yeah, Mr. Saster was the assistant principal, he was very strict.



	V:	And when you say that they were very good and stuff like that, what made them very good?

	BT:	They made sure the student came to school on time, they would stand on the corner of Blunt and hide. Mr. Saster always had a strapped ruler in his pocket, and he would stand there, and says "You can hide, but you gotta come by me, so why are you not on time this morning?" They wanted to make sure you on time, make sure you were clean, make sure you had lunch money's and stuff, to take care of yourself for the day. Very thoughtful, and if you didn't come to school, they were at your house that afternoon to make sure "Why didn't she come to school? why didn't he come to school?" I had a brother that played hooky a lot, they would always come for him.

	V:	So, were the teachers and the principals, were they really in touch with the community and the families?





	BT:	Yes, yes, yes.



	V:	So, I wanna know, ‘cause I wanna get a sense. I know Fort Myers didn't explode until much later, was there a sense of everyone knew each other?

	BT:	Yes. Everybody knew - everything happened around Dunbar beyond High Street.



Any activities, place, shows, parades, everything started there on High Street. So, everybody knew everybody.

	V:	And, I wanna ask too, when you were growing up as well, what was it like, what were the houses like around here?

	BT:	We lived across the street in a three-bedroom house. With its three rooms. HT:	It was a long road house.

	BT:	It was a long road house, and there were about four of them together, in front of the school, and each of them had three rooms. So, all of the neighbors, we got along pretty well. And in the neighborhood, you did something wrong, you get your butt smacked, before you get home, and then you get spanked after you go home. That pretty well kept us in line.

	V:	Do you remember who the community police officers were?



	BT:	Snad Thomas was the sheriff. Andrew Sanders was one of the policeman at that time. Bernie Snape, yeah.

	V:	I think Bo was his nickname. BT:	Yes.

	HT:	I know him well. V:	Do you? How so?





	HT:	Well, he was in our lodge. Yeah, he was in our lodge, and he was a pretty good guy. He just, uh, pretty strict. Andrew Sanders, he was strict also.

	V:	So, you guys have a lodge then, I'm assuming ‘cause you said he was at your lodge?

	HT:	Yes. Dunbar Lodge on 15, it had been in progress ever since two years before I claimed it, two years, and it has been ours ever since.

	V:	If I can ask then, how did you both meet? BT:	At the swimming pool [Laughter].

	V:	At the swimming pool? And what happened at the swimming pool?



	BT:	I have a younger sister that was under me, and they was chasing her around the pool. He saw me walking around the pool, and Helen says "Oh my god, there's daddy and he's looking at her, we don't have a chance." So, I went in there at the swimming pool.

	V:	Okay, and everything just worked from there? BT:	Yeah.

	V:	So, when did you guys get married? HT:	In [19]58.

	V:	And did you get married in one of the churches around here? HT:	No.

	BT:	Downtown in the courthouse.



	V:	Actually, I have a question. ‘Cause if you had to go downtown— I know in downtown, they had the segregation orders where if you went downtown, did you have to have business to go, and get your marriage license, then?





	BT:	No.



	V:	How strict was that, then? I guess the segregation orders with downtown.



	BT:	It wasn't very strict. You know what's really strange? Downtown, McCroix's department store, and all the stores that was downtown, you went where you wanted to, you ate at the counters and all that stuff, but as soon as they start segregation, they got real ugly. You know, they didn't want you in the store, and you eat over here, and eat over there. So people just got {inaudible 09:52], they just didn't eat there at all.

	HT:	Bathrooms, different bathrooms, water fountains.



	BT:	Water fountains, Black, White water fountains. White/Black restrooms. V:	But there was still a lot of people going downtown.

	BT:	Yeah.



	V:	Getting marriage licenses. BT:	Yeah, that was a big thing.

	HT:	I would say in the daytime, it was okay, but after same time of night, they wanted you back across the river tracks. They don't want you in downtown. I went to the [inaudible 10:32]. We was coming— we went on the bus. The bus station was at that— near, it was on Monroe street, and we got off the bus, and start walking home, and there was some that had to go to Immokalee, there was thirty-five of us walking along, and the police pulled up beside us. I was walking a little in front of them, he pulling up and asks us what we did. And we told him. He said "How many [inaudible 11:10]" We didn't know. But anyway, we didn't know, so "I'm gonna put you in jail for going down that plain door," and I said "Oh, just like





that?" I was walking twenty feet ahead of him, and Henney put his name up, his last name was Henney. But anyway, we was walking ahead of the crowd alone, and they said they pulled on, and shined a light, and I just kept walking. But if you'd been caught downtown at that time, there was a lot of questions. Why you down there, what you doing? But they didn't bother us, they just harassed us.

	BT:	We would go downtown to the McCroix store. You know when you taking a sewing class, and activities like that, you have to go to McCroix's to get the stuff, and the high school was where the building is. What's that building? On the corner Fowler and - the big tall building. I think they changed the name to -

	HT:	It's the City Hall, now. BT:	Oh, is it?

	HT:	Yeah.



	BT:	Oh.



	HT:	Yeah, I think that's the City Hall, everything, jail house.



	BT:	No, not that far down. He said to come up Fowler then, across the street from the paper.

	HT:	Oh, where you get your light.



	BT:	Yeah. That was the high school there, and those children would go out to lunch, and if they caught you walking down the road, they would throw food and you, and stuff like that.

	V:	Okay.





	BT:	But see, they didn't know that I was a tomboy. So, when they threw food at me, I'd wheel it right back at 'em, and hit them on the side of the head. I had to speed off real fast. But other than that, they'd just do things to aggravate you.

	V:	How engrained was segregation then? ‘Cause to my understanding, there were people that throw food at you guys, but also, it depended on the person. Did you have any White neighbors or friends, or anything like that when you had your business?

	BT:	Yeah, the more Ms. Browning.



HT:  I was working at that time, I was working for Elleblat, and I worked there for so long, and then I went to Jerome Lumber, a seamen industry, where I'm at now. So I've been there for fifty-seven years now. Fifty-one, going on fifty-one years.

V:  Was there a lot, or any communication between the railroad tracks and stuff like that?

	HT:	No.



	BT:	What you mean, like coming to visit?



	V:	No, well yeah. I mean people making friends, and talking with each other, and stuff like that. Or was that just not?

	HT:	That was just not.



	BT:	No, that just not. Maybe about [19]58, [19]59 it got a little bit better, you know. V:	Yeah. Better in [19]58, [19]59?

	BT:	Yes.



HT:  It seems like it got a little bit better. I went to school at Dunbar as well, but on Ford Street at night school. I went to night school, being as I came down here to





get my diploma. But, there was no Whites. Wasn't segregated at that time. When the segregation started, they started with the elementary school. My son went to Edison Park, and they start integrating the elementary school. I knew it was about five or six of them went out there, and thy never had any problem. The high school, I think they did have after a few years -

	BT:	Lot of problems.



	HT:	Yeah, with those teenagers, so. You were gonna have problems when you run into those anyway.

V: What kind of problems were there, specifically? I know it was around [19]71 when they finally integrated the high schools. The Blailar case? What was the problems that came up then, for people who went to integrated schools?

	HT:	Yeah.



BT:  They were fighting, pushing, stuff like that.



HT:  Especially at Fort Myers High. I know about five of them went out there, and there was fighting every evening, just about.

BT:  Usually, when they integrated, it was only about four or five that would go to the school, and they would double team them, and they'd have to fight their way in, and fight their way out.

V:  Okay. Was there a lot of disappointment in the community when they - not when they integrated schools, but when they closed Dunbar high school?

BT:  Yeah. It seemed to me, it tore up the community because that's where everybody met. So now, you got people that take cars south four miles, east four miles They scattered everywhere, and when they ask you about different ones that are living





here, then you gotta say, I don't know where they live, and then they be looking at you "You've been living here a long time ago," yeah, but I don't know where they are.

	V:	Now, when they closed Dunbar high school, do you know why they closed it? BT:	For integration.

	V:	No, but what I mean is that, I'm trying to understand if they have a perfectly fine school, why close it? Was it just because it was the Black school?

	BT:	Mm-hm.



	HT:	Especially when it comes down to football. I think after they separated it, I think they got along fine, but they wanted the Black kids to play football because they was good. Especially in this area here. I don't know where they got along pretty good when they started football together. I imagined there was a little struggle, or something, but they seemed like they got along pretty good. It got better after years went by.

	BT:	You know, when they integrated, the next after elementary, they got the teachers. They took a lot of Black teachers from the school, and put them to the White school, and we're saying "Why you doing that?" Then, they'd send the White teachers over, but you know, they would act like they were scared of the children, you know. All of them would say "Oh, they're so cute" I don't want them to be cute, I want them to learn. Yeah, then come and teach them something.

What were they learning before? I go "You need to go ask the teacher." Yeah.



	HT:	Those teachers, I think, were very strict with those kids, and you learned, all of those teachers too. Like they talk back now, they wouldn't dare do it then.





	V:	Yeah, it contrasts a lot with what you were saying [Laughter].



	HT:	The parents were much lenient to the kids, and if something happened, I would prance out to the school trying to find out what's going on. But a year later, they—

	BT:	Yeah, they got a little mouth-y with the teachers and everybody else. Yup.



	HT:	And you had some Whites. I know my son had a problem. He was good in music, and so when it come down to the best student that could do it, the student say yes, Toney was the best one, but they wouldn't let him do it, especially when the Edison—

	BT:	Parade?



	HT:	Yeah, they wouldn't let him do it. So, you know, I told him "You're living in a place, integration, and they're trying to do it better, but you got to learn how to shake it off, and move on," which he did. Shake it off, and he got a PhD now in music.

	V:	Is that what he teaches? Is this the one that teaches in Tampa? Oh, okay. HT:	Music.

	BT:	Yeah, now he's trying to get his own business there, spreading music to the different schools and stuff. Before, when they wouldn't let him be the drum majors, that's what they would do, competing for drum major. And, what's the name, Mr. Ganey said no. And he said "Alright, mom, you know what I'm gonna do?" He says "I'm going to college, and I'm coming back and I'm gonna get his job. But you now what? He died before [Laughter]. Oh my goodness, he died. He said "That's alright, I came close." Oh goodness.





	V:	So then, I mean I wanna ask a question about Dunbar high school when you guys went. Were the arts a really big thing?

	BT:	Yeah.



	V:	‘Cause I know football was huge, but I'd never read anything about the arts.



	BT:	I know, they sorta stopped doing that! You had home economics, you had shop, you had music. And all the kids was pretty good in it. I liked shop, and I learned how to use a drill, and stuff like that, but these kids coming up now, what is that? You got the hammer and nail, and what are you doing? Oh my goodness, so they really do need to put that back, so they can learn. I learned how to sew in high school, in class. Home economics, in fact I got a sewing business. You know, I don't sew so much now anymore, after Joselin got sick, I just got a room full of fabrics. But, other than that, you know, they're not learning anything.

	V:	Alright, so I wanna kind of - well, actually, I do wanna ask. Before I move on education, because I don't wanna go to-from, back and forth.

	BT:	Well, that's okay.



	V:	I wanna ask, did you guys ever - were you ever personally involved, or did you know anyone involved with the Laylock case and things like that?

	BT:	Yeah.



	HT:	Yeah, reckon they—



	BT:	They went to church. Friendship Baptist church. HT:	He was [inaudible: 23:01] leader at that time.

	V:	Yup.





	HT:	It was pretty rough then. I remember they had a drive-in theatre up there in Edison Avenue then, and they didn't want the Blacks to come in, and so, you got a bunch of teenagers, one of them blocked the screen - I mean, blocked the entrance of it, so they moved on.

	V:	They closed the theater? BT:	Yes.

	HT:	Oh, yes, they closed that. Um, he did quite a bit of work, especially when it comes down to the integration of whatnot. He was out there when a kid had problems at school, he would try to go out there and find out what was the problem, and whatnot. He was very active during that time.

	BT:	In fact, he was our church integrator in Fort Myers beach. V:	Oh, really?

	BT:	Yes. We all got in buses and cars and stuff, what was really strange, you're sitting in the car, and when those kids hit the water, you see the White people there, they left the water. Well that's okay, we here to swim. I go, oh my goodness, talking about dividing the water.

	V:	Now, actually, talking about the beaches and stuff like that, you were around, then, when Bunch beach was open. So were you guys - so, whatever happened to Bunch beach? Did you guys still visit?

	BT:	We visited, but somebody bought it. All you have there is training homes. V:	Yeah.

	BT:	Trailer park, it's a trailer park now.





	V:	Yeah, I was gonna say, to my understanding, it's not really like kept anymore. It's more like— I know I looked up a picture, and I just got like the marker on it, or whatever, the state.

	HT:	It was just like an offset from the water. BT:	From Fort Myers Beach.

	HT:	From Fort Myers Beach, and it seemed like the water wasn't that clear. Muddy, and whatnot. They enjoyed it, during that time.

V:  So, like, lemme get my thoughts together. So, when they commissioned Bunche beach, and things like that, they had never done anything with it. They just made it a side of Fort Myers?

	HT:	Somebody bought it, and they built mobile homes and stuff, but then, they started going to Bunche beach, and Fort Myers beach, Bajita beach, they just scattered all over there.

	V:	Oh, I always wondered, because I heard about Bunche beach, and I was like, well, why is it dead now? Now it makes sense. They just got like the worst piece of land.

	BT:	Right.



	V:	Okay.



	HT:	Yeah, and that's where I used to go all the time when I first came here. But they saw us scattering, and where they see water, if it wasn't private property we could sit there.

	V:	Okay. Alright, that makes a lot more sense to me now. I was wondering that. I was legitimately wondering, well, why is Bunche beach dead now? ‘Cause they





got Butler Beach, up in St. Augustine, which was another one of the Black beaches, which is huge. So I was like, well, why is that one open and not this one? Well, whatever. I'm going off on a tangent.

	BT:	It's alright [Laughter].



	V:	So, then I wanna go back to talking about Reverend Edwards, because I understand you were a deacon, or you still are a deacon.

	HT:	Yes.



	V:	So, what was the role of Friendship Baptist church and integration? Can you just tell me about Friendship Baptist, and integration, and NAACP. What was Friendship Baptist?

	HT:	Well, they took the [inaudible 00:27:24] who was the president. They took the role of leadership in the Black community and any problems come up, especially if it's integration, that's what they did. They come, and I remember they did a march once. I had to work, they did a march, and I'm working, but, they did one march, the last march before - it was going to march, and snag came and picked up Reverend Edwards, and they left. When they came back, they called it off.

You know, everybody was wondering why he called it off, but Reverend Edwards said "I don't want nobody to get hurt," because a lot of Whites lined it up, and they tried to do something to him, and they had guns -

	BT:	Yeah, they was waiting on him.



	HT:	Yeah, so then, he called that one off, because he didn't want nobody to get hurt, but yeah, they were looking for him. Friendship was the leading church in integration at that time. One incident happened when it first started, what was the





name of that restaurant they went to? After church, they went to a restaurant in downtown.

	V:	Restaurant? Is this the snack house? BT:	Yes.

	HT:	He was [inaudible 23:01] leader at that time. V:	Yup.

	HT:	And they - it was pretty rough then. I remember they had a drive-in theatre up there in Edison Avenue then, and they didn't want the Blacks to come in, and so, you got a bunch of teenagers, one of them blocked the screen— I mean, blocked the entrance of it, so they moved on.

	V:	They closed the theater? BT:	Yes.

	HT:	Oh, yes, they closed that. Um, he did quite a bit of work, especially when it comes down to the integration of whatnot. He was out there when a kid had problems at school, he would try to go out there and find out what was the problem, and whatnot. He was very active during that time.

	BT:	In fact, he was our church integrator in Fort Myers beach. V:	Oh, really?

	BT:	Yes. We all got in buses and cars and stuff, what was really strange, you're sitting in the car, and when those kids hit the water, you see the White people there, they left the water. Well that's okay, we here to swim. I go, oh my goodness, talking about dividing the water.





	V:	Now, actually, talking about the beaches and stuff like that, you were around, then, when Bunche beach was open. So were you guys - so, whatever happened to Bunche beach? Did you guys still visit?

	BT:	We visited, but somebody bought it. All you have there is training homes. V:	Yeah.

	BT:	Trailer park, it's a trailer park now.



	V:	Yeah, I was gonna say, to my understanding, it's not really like kept anymore. It's more like - I know I looked up a picture, and I just got like the marker on it, or whatever, the state.

	HT:	That was - it was just like an offset from the water. BT:	From Fort Myers Beach.

	HT:	From Fort Myers Beach, and it seemed like the water wasn't that clear. Muddy, and whatnot. They enjoyed it, during that time.

V:  So, like, lemme get my thoughts together. So, when they commissioned Bunche beach, and things like that, they had never done anything with it. They just made it a side of Fort Myers?

	HT:	Somebody bought it, and they built mobile homes and stuff, but then, they started going to Bunche beach, and Fort Myers beach, Bajita beach, they just scattered all over there.

	V:	Oh, I always wondered, because I heard about Bunche beach, and I was like, well, why is it dead now? Now it makes sense. They just got like the worst piece of land.

	BT:	Right.





	V:	Okay.



	HT:	Yeah, and that's where I used to go all the time when I first came here. But they saw us scattering, and where they see water, if it wasn't private property we could sit there.

	V:	Okay. Alright, that makes a lot more sense to me now. I was wondering that. I was legitimately wondering, well, why is Bunche beach dead now? ‘Cause they got Butler Beach, up in St. Augustine, which was another one of the Black beaches, which is huge. So I was like, well, why is that one open and not this one? Well, whatever. I'm going off on a tangent.

	BT:	It's alright [Laughter].



	V:	So, then I wanna go back to talking about Reverend Edwards, because I understand you were a deacon, or you still are a deacon.

	HT:	Yes.



	V:	So, what was the role of Friendship Baptist church and integration? Can you just tell me about Friendship Baptist, and integration, and NAACP. What was Friendship Baptist?

	HT:	Well, they took the [inaudible 27:24] who was the president. They took the role of leadership in the Black community and any problems come up, especially if it's integration, that's what they did. They come, and I remember they did a march once. I had to work, they did a march, and I'm working, but um, they did one march, the last march before - it was going to march, and snag came and picked up Reverend Edwards, and they left. When they came back, they called it off.

You know, everybody was wondering why he called it off, but Reverend Edwards





said "I don't want nobody to get hurt," because a lot of Whites lined it up, and they tried to do something to him, and they had guns—

	BT:	Yeah, they was waiting on him.



	HT:	Yeah, so then, he called that one off, because he didn't want nobody to get hurt, but yeah, they were looking for him. Friendship was the leading church in integration at that time. One incident happened when it first started, what was the name of that restaurant they went to? After church, they went to a restaurant in downtown.

	V:	Restaurant? Is this the snack house? BT:	Yes.

	HT:	My sister was in that, and they went and sat down, and it was all the food, and chili with hot sauce. And that's when Reverend Edwards got into it. He would chat and find out who did it, and what not, but they wouldn't tell him. They wouldn't tell him. But they started - I remember me and my wife, we went out during that time, we went down to McDonald's. I went down to the door, and she was sitting in the car, and I asked for a couple of burgers, and she said "Would you move around to the back?" and I said, “I didn't ask for a back burger, I asked for a hamburger,” and I left, and went home, took my car, we left and went home. But, they wanted you to go around to the little window, they'd throw a hamburger at you round that time. Same one there now.

	V:	See, I heard about the same story from Ida Goldberg. I interviewed—



	HT:	Yeah, she was in there. She was in that. She was one of those they threw ketchup on.





	V:	She didn't remember a lot, she was trying to get the details together. But, no yeah, she told me about the hot sauce. I heard from then that they had written up, or the owner had written an apology, or something like that to reverend Edwards?

	BT:	Yeah.



	HT:	Yeah, he did send an apology to the church, and whatnot, so.



	V:	Was that out of the kindness of his heart, or was that public pressure? HT:	I think it was public pressure.

	BT:	‘Cause he didn’t wanna come down with a big group [Laughter]. ‘Cause we would get a group and say we going downtown.

	V:	Were there other sit-ins you can remember? BT:	Snack house, the beach.

	HT:	Snack house, the beach.



	BT:	They were the prime of places to go to, because everybody went to the snack house to eat. The buses in downtown, the burgers and stuff, and on the weekends, just at the Fort Myers beach, so that was the main places

	V:	Oh okay, alright. Thank you guys for all this, ‘cause it gives me like a better picture of everything. So, actually I thought of another question regarding education, so I'm jumping back to that. Um, I heard that when - this is from when I was talking with Coop Ferrell. He was actually the first or second interview that I did down here, and he told me that once they had integrated the high schools and stuff like that, they had a disturbance, or like, a riot at one of the high schools.





	BT:	Yeah.



	V:	Do you guys remember anything about that?



	BT:	Our family was in it [Laughter]. Our nephew Leroux Johnson, and my cousin, Willy Floyd, I'm trying to think.

	HT:	Shackleford.



	BT:	Yeah, we knew those three. That was a ruckus. We had to head street down. V:	Do you remember any details they told you about it?

	BT:	It's that one pushed the other one.



	HT:	Yeah, they started, I think, after they got out of school, and started home, that's when they had - I think it started before then.

	BT:	Yeah, during the day, when you start walking home, which was far. You know, they were far from home, when they harassed them. And they were daredevils, they'd you know "You don't handle me like that." But, other than that, yeah.

	HT:	Phillip [inaudible 33:32], he went for the stout, and he threw up a kid in a chokehold, right?

	BT:	Yeah. Leroux bruised some up pretty good. Yeah, Shackleford got some. Pretty good, they wanted to put them out, but we said they followed them home, they didn't do anything to them at school.

	V:	Oh, what was my focus? It just left my mind. I'm trying to get it together. Oh, yes that's right. So, around the same time, and I think this is in 1971, this is when the

- well, at least to my understanding, where all the integration stuff was going on, I remember I read an article in the news press about it, because they had put in a curfew on Dunbar, and there was another story that Coop Ferrell had told me,





the interracial couple, where I think the man was White, and the woman was Black, and the woman had gotten killed, and that there was some kind of - well, that people literally crossed the tracks into Dunbar, and started burning houses and stuff like that, was that—

	BT:	Yeah, you see, but in [19]71—



	V:	It might not be [19]71, either early [19]70s or late [19]60s.



	HT:	Yeah. I remember they did - they said the Coca Cola place on fire. What else they did? Something else they did. I know it was the old Coca-Cola place, sitting in colonial.

	V:	the bottling plant?



	BT:	That's where the CVS is now. V:	Is it a place?

	HT:	It was two or three, I think, that they set on fire.



	BT:	Yeah, whenever they start a fire, everybody else would say they didn't know the cause of it, but we knew the cause of it.

	V:	Yeah, okay. Alright, so then, well those were the little blurbs that I wanted to ask about. The last thing I wanna talk about healthcare here, ‘cause to my understanding, I mean Lee Health is now the biggest employer. I learned about Jones Walker's hospitals -

	BT:	They never said anything about Jones Walker's hospitals. Not one thing.



	V:	Yeah, the funny thing is I knew about the Jones Walker's apartments. I know where the apartment complex is, I didn't know that it got saved from that.





	BT:	That's how. The house was back on Blunt and Lily. We lived in front of the school on High St. So you had a nice hospital back there. ‘Cause my mom was there, they were setting her up for surgery, and you know, they put you on MPO. So she left there coming through the back, she told me "Get me some food." [Laughter] I said "What you want mom?" She said, "I want eggs, and bacon and grits," I said “Okay.” I did that, and after she ate it, she went out and sat on the porch. Then she looked up, there were two police cars coming down the road, she looked at them and laughed. She said "You're coming for me, and I know it. But I'm full now, I'm not going back." My kids was born there.

	HT:	Yeah, the first kid. Junior. [inaudible 37:17] BT:	Jones Walker.

	HT:	I know Junie Bread. She had a lady name. She used to tell you to go to the childcare there, and be looking for Junior, she had him walking around, showing shoulders. Helped him with the medication, help with all other stuff. Joselin was born there, Ms. Thurman was in there, together. They did the same thing with her. ‘Cause the preemies, they didn't let them sleep by themselves too much ‘cause they were premise. But, every time you go there, you gotta hop on the shoulders.

	HT:	Well, I know Junior was. BT:	Four pounds., eight ounces. V:	Oh wow.

	BT:	Yeah. So we couldn't bring him home till he gets five pounds. HT:	Two weeks.





	BT:	Yeah, two weeks. Joselin was four pounds, eight ounces.



	V:	So you said you had some kids in Jones Walker. You said you had some in Lee Memorial?

	BT:	No, not Lee Memorial. All in Jones Walker, but they don't say anything. Even in the write-up now about the hospital, one hundred years, they don't say one thing about Jones Walker Hospital.

	V:	How - I mean, important, that was the hospital for the community. Was that the primary - was that the place where people went to get primary care and stuff like that, too? With doctors and things, or was it serious stuff only?

	BT:	Yeah. Anything serious like surgery, they would take them over to Lee Memorial.



	V:	Do you remember who your doctor was? Who your primary doctor was? Or did you guys have like a family doctor?

	BT:	No.



	HT:	We had a child doctor. Dr. Wiley. He was a child doctor, he would take - he had problems with a rash in his hand, and Dr. Wiley took care of him.

	BT:	As far as I know, yes.



	HT:	We got to be pretty close to the doctor. As far as doctors and whatnot, we probably had two or three doctors.

	BT:	Dr. Rumburger. He was one, he was out of town, and Dr. - who was the other one that worked with him?

	HT:	[Laughter].



[outside noise]





	HT:	My stomach was bothering me. It was on Saturday morning; I'll never forget it. I went to see Dr.— what's his name? He was out of town, up in Willian Jones.

Everybody was gone but me, and I'm sitting there. "Can I help you?" I say "Yeah, I got a bad stomachache." He said "How long's that been going on?" I said "It started last night," and he wrote me up a prescription and handed to me like this. [Laughter] I took it, and came home, and she said "Did you see another doctor" Yeah, William Jones. He said "No, don't take that medicine. He was known to give you some medicine that would get you out of this world.

	BT:	Wipe you out.



	HT:	That's what they claim, I didn't know. ‘Cause I just [inaudible 41:23].



	BT:	I got a prescription one time from Dr. Ronburger. And we went across the street, there was a Washburn pharmacy, and I got it filled there, and I went home with it. Dad told me, “Did you show that to your doctor?” I said "No," he said "That looks funny." It had a brownish color to it, I said "That's alright, I'll take it back to Dr.

Ronburger tomorrow. So I took it back up there and showed it to him, and he said "Did you take any of this?" I said "No," he said "Thank God." I go “Oh, dear, God.” He said "Thank you, I'll take care of this." I don't know if he said something to Washburn’s or not, but I know after that, they went out of business. They kept giving you bad medicine.

	V:	Oh, wow. No, yeah that sounds really sketchy.



	BT:	Don't take that. So, after that, you know, when you take a prescription from your doctor, and you get it filled, you take it back to your doctor so they can inspect it.

	V:	Okay.





	BT:	Salcole. That was the other one that worked with Dr. Ronberger. He has a son now that runs a floor shop. He sees me sometime’ s now, and he says "Child, you spent fifty years gathering this crap now, you spend fifty years throwing it away." [Laughter] Oh, geez.

	V:	At Jones Walker and things like that, were most of the doctors Black?



	BT:	No, we didn't have Black doctors. They came from Lee Memorial. Come from Lee Memorial. It was a two-wing hospital, with babies in the front wing, and men on the back wing. And next to the nurses' station, they had a little surgery room for delivery. It wasn't very big, but mostly it was run by nurses.

	V:	Oh, yeah. So then, I mean, if the doctors came from Lee Memorial, did the doctors have any prejudice, or no?

	BT:	Well, they didn't act like it. They worked with you pretty good.



	V:	When they ended up integrating the hospitals, then, when did they close Jones Walker.

	HT:	Oh, boy.



	BT:	Child, it was probably about two. Yeah, it didn't take them long. V:	Really?

	HT:	Yeah, it was about [19]65. [19]67, [19]68, somewhere in that neighborhood. BT:	Yeah, it didn't take them long to close it.

	V:	I mean, it's the same thing with closing everything else, was it because it was the Black one?

	BT:	Mm-hm.





	V:	Even all the equipment and stuff like that? It just seems crazy to me, you got a perfectly good hospital, why would you close it?

	BT:	That's right. Why close it? Joselin was pre-retinal, renal failure. And we went to the emergency room in Lee Memorial. There was a young man, I said I would never forget his name, but we went in there, and he started yelling at us and carrying on, and throwing stuff, and going on. Jackson said "Mama, what's wrong with him?" I said, "I don't know, but let me talk to the nurse." So I asked the nurse "What's his problem?" She said "You know, normally, he's a good doctor, but there's something about waiting on Black people that really gets him riled." I said "Good, tell me who's the manager here." And she said "Are you gonna go talk to him?" I said "Right now." I said "We came out here for help. Joselin needs his help right now,” I don't come out here to be ugly, fussed at, or cuss at him. I don't want that done to us. She went right out, and she told him. In about ten minutes, he came back and he said "Ms. Toney," he said "What you need?"

	HT:	Very nice.



	BT:	What happened to the little guy that was flashing out of here, you know, yelling? HT:	She was gonna say something to him about it.

	BT:	Yeah, I told him every Black person who comes in here don't yell or curse, or carry on that. We came in here for help. We need help. Yeah, so he came back in there, he was so sweet, nice, and I said "Oh, sweet Jesus." You know, it's just unreal how they come sometimes. I admit, there's some people that act ugly sometimes, but everybody does not act like that. Nope. Other than that, hey, pretty good.





	V:	So, I mean. So if there were, like, no Black doctors, was there anywhere - I mean, I know neither of you are doctors, but was there anywhere you could go in state for med school if you were Black or African American?

	BT:	They mostly went up to Tallahassee for Florida State.



	HT:	There was a couple of Black doctors came in here. I don't know his name, but he moved out here by Michigan, but they wouldn't let him into Lee Memorial, see.

They wouldn't let him into the system, I think, that's the biggest problem.



	V:	Huh. Then, just so I can clarify too, Jones Walker was owned by Lee Memorial. HT:	Yes. I didn't know that, I didn't know if the city had just like a separate, or if it was.

Yeah, okay.



	BT:	Yeah, they just put it out there for the Black hospital.



	HT:	Before then, didn't they have one that they used for a hospital?



BT:  Down on high street. There was one down on high street that was supposed to be a hospital in a two-story building, and when they left that two-story building, they moved over here to Jones Walker.

HT: That was before I came. BT:  Right.

V:  Was there any - I mean, with closing Dunbar High school, closing Jones Walker high school - ugh, Jones Walker hospital, my brain man.

	BT:	That's alright, we saw the blow in your mind.



	V:	I love learning about all this. Yeah. Closing Jones Walker hospital, was there any community push back to it? Like "Keep this open."





	BT:		Yeah. But it didn't do any good, because you needed to be in a hospital, you'd go to Jones Walker.

	V:	Okay, I guess I should clarify my question then. My question was that was there any kind of political push back in City Council? I know - I mean, after later on you got like Veronica Shumaker coming -

	HT:	That was before. BT:	Yeah.

	V:	Okay, so it was just too late by time there was representation. BT:	Right.

	HT:	There wasn't representation at that time.



	BT:	Whatever the City Council said, that's what happened. HT:	Yeah.

	V:	Okay.



	HT:	The school board, they did get Mr. Smith on the school board. That was the first Black that went on the school board.

	BT:	Harris Smith.



	V:	What was the name again? Horace Smith. Okay. HT:	Then, the shoemaker got on the council.

	BT:	Right.



	HT:	Then, later on, there was the street, Jonas Street that had just opened up then. V:	Yeah, got the ball rolling?

	BT:	Right.



	V:	Do you guys remember, or did you guys ever vote in the state council elections?





	BT:	Yes.



	V:	Okay, then. Before - actually, if I could ask ‘cause I don't think I've ever asked about this before. Was there a lot of Black participation in politics, I guess, before integration and things like that?

	BT:	No.



	V:	Or were people kept from the polls? HT:	They kept.

	BT:	They went and voted. Then, it was open voting, we voted for everything that happened in Fort Myers, but then, all of a sudden, now it's if you're not a Democrat, you can't vote. If you're not a Republican, you can't vote. I don't know when they divided. When we were first married, we went and voted for everybody. So, then they divided it up, and first thing they say "You can't do that, ‘cause that's the law," okay, who changed it? And they were good at changing stuff, and not telling you. Or they would put it on paper, to vote on, a lot of people didn't know what it was about. They were voting for it, not knowing that they were voting for a change. So, it got away like that.

	HT:	This is why I think they got Jonas Street, and Sam's, I think that's how they got it, because they split up the county into sections.

	BT:	Teresa.



	HT:	Yeah, Teresa. They split it up into sections, and that's when they force some votes in, especially from the Blacks.





	V:	Yeah, I mean in terms of voting districts and stuff like that, who was supposed to



- at least, on the City Council, was there just like - was Dunbar not really in the voting, then? How did that work?

	HT:	They thought that - one time, they had to vote south of Friendship and different churches to reach to people's homes. They did that one year, and - but, they pushed us to vote. I remember one time, I voted twice because they told me. It was district 25, and I went to - I think it was at the - no, they told me it was down here on 1st street. So I went to the 1st street that was at Knights Columbus, or some club there, that's where you get to the problem. And I went there, and I voted, and they said "Yup, this is district 25," so I went, filed my name, and went there, and gave my vote in. Then, they said "You need to go to precinct" - I think it was at the recreation center. I said "Okay," I went up to the recreation center and voted there, but I imagined they threw one of them out.

	BT:	They divided the county up now. We started voting at Dunbar high school, and then they moved us to the recreation center, and we voted there for years, and then they moved us to Terry Park, and I said "You really moving us outside the district," we live just down the street from the recreation center behind Franklin Park, so when we get our card this time, we go way across to Palm Beach. I go "What is the problem?" So Marion said they done all of them like that. She said "I got moved there too," I'll fix them. I'll go downtown and vote, that way I eliminate trying to find the place, and I think a lot of that is because a lot of Blacks voted, but they could walk up to the voting place. But now, where they have us a lot of them can't walk, and they don't drive.





	V:	Okay, so you were talking about - Hubert, you were talking about the NAACP trying to get people out and voting, and things like that. What were some of the big initiatives of the NAACP in Fort Myers.

	HT:	Jobs. It was trying to get people to get into these jobs and whatnot, outside of just the ditches and whatnot. One thing I found is that here in Lee County, they don't have benefits. You have one— two telephone companies. I don't know that any Blacks yet have gotten onto solar power light. It was a lot of movement to LeeCo?

	BT:	Yeah, LeeCo.



	HT:	There was a lot of Blacks that went over there, and they had pretty good benefits. A lot of Blacks - I know about three, four, they were more trying to get people that qualified for the jobs, and they were one of the main things they was trying to get people placed in positions for the jobs and whatnot. Now you got them all over.

	BT:	Yeah, I remember they would push for training too. You know, if you wanna get them in there, train 'em. They would say "Everybody you have working in this building, they don't know how this business is operating," you train them. Train them. You know, sometimes you get half trained, ugly trained.

	HT:	Yeah, I remember one time they needed some policies, and maybe I was twenty- five or thirty years old, and they got me and about three more guys, and these guys was well-recommended, go down to get a - at that time, you had to get passes for the service exam, and we couldn't even get an application.

	V:	Oh, okay.





	HT:	They said, try the fire department. Nope. They sent us from that fire department to uptown, then we went to the chief of police. We went there twice. First time, he was playing golf, the second time he was in a meeting. I said forget it. That was a long time ago. That was when [inaudible 57:16] was getting old, and there was another guy out there. There was another guy on the police force, went there and was a tall, skinny guy. I can't think of his name, but Barnes was on there one time.

	BT:	Barnes, yeah.



	HT:	But anyway, they was looking for some minority to join the police. I never did wanna be a policeman.

	BT:	Thank the man that was in there, it was his father, Barnes. V:	It's the father of - Mr. Barnes, over there.

	BT:	Yeah, his father.



	HT:	I know he was on the police force when we arrived there. BT:	Yeah, his father.

	HT:	I know he was on the police force when we arrived there. I tell you that was the same time when [inaudible 58:14] I don't know how he got the application, but we went down there about three or four times trying to get just the application.

	BT:	Yeah that application filled out. HT:	But we never did get it.

	V:	Yeah, I remember when I spoke with Coop Ferrell when he was telling me about becoming a police officer. He told me that they hadn't even - they hadn't even





integrated the police academy, so when they brought him on, he didn't even go to the police academy, they just trained him in-house. There you go.

	BT:	Yup, they did.



	HT:	They had a quite a few guys who came from Belle Glade, Georgia boy? BT:	Georgia boy, yes.

	HT:	That's what they called him, I don't remember his name, but he came in there to - they had a quite a few police men back then.

	BT:	Yeah, I think they brought him in so the others wouldn't feel lonely in there.



Cause they didn't stay long.



	V:	So, when they patrolled, they only patrolled Dunbar. HT:	That's right.

	BT:	Yeah. If they had to arrest anybody, it had to be Black. They could not arrest anybody Black. They only started doing that about two years ago. They did not arrest anybody White.

	V:	Um, okay. So then, well the last thing that's on my mind, it might be the last thing, unless I come up with other things. I wanna know a little bit about Reverend Edwards, I know he's still alive today. I plan - I hope we'll talk to him. But, who was Reverend Edwards?

	HT:	He was a minister that we called out of Jacksonville here. He came out of Jacksonville and he came into Fort Myers, and he was a little bit of everything. When he got here, he was learning about this and that, and he was a darn good minister. My friend reached out, and when he was here - he just didn't back down. He kept pushing.





	BT:	Even got a little training there during church. If you didn't know of going to school, yeah your parents going back to school. They did it at Friendship.

	HT:	He pushed me, Ms. Golan, Ms. Ruberry, it was a lot of us there. Pushed us to go back to school. My mind was set on getting a diploma, and so I went to night school. Boy, I tell you that was a rough, rough time working in the daytime, and going to school at night. But I kept staying in Friendship. Not only that, I was over at the little league for twenty-seven years or better. And then, I turn around, and he kept pushing me to get the scouts. Then I got into Boy Scouts, and I did Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday I took the boy scouts out to church, doing different things. I tell you, it was rough on me then, and I just could go to school, and try to do all of this.

	V:	I tell you what, I know they really appreciated it because I don't know his last name, but you know Jared who works over there, right? Jared was telling me you were his scout leader at boy scouts. When he saw I was interviewing you, he was looking at the list like "Oh, that was my scout leader when I was growing up."

	BT:	Yeah, exactly.



	HT:	There's a lot of guys who come up to me now, and say "Mr. Hubert, you still got that house on Friendship," I say "No, good try."

	BT:	Red truck with the wood body, and every time you saw that truck, it was loaded with children, oh my goodness. They could be home "No, I don't wanna ride with mom, I wanna ride with the trunk with the rest of the children." They didn't wanna him to get rid of it, but I told him, this thing leaking. We gotta get rid of it. Yup.





	V:	Do you remember with Boy Scouts and stuff like that, where did you guys go camping around here?

	HT:	We had two places. Fort Myers Hedge, Chapter Hedge took place in one, and Camp Myers, they called it. Sanders, Dr. Sanders had six acres out there that we roamed with snakes, and wild animals and all. But we had fun. They built - got different companies to build different stuff out there.

	BT:	Cabins.



	HT:	Cabins and stuff like that.



	BT:	But the cabins were strictly so they could go to the restroom and bathe, they made him sleep out the doors and in a tent.

	HT:	Yeah, there was no housing. Got you camping with scouts was real.



	V:	So did the boy scouts play an important role for a lot of the kids growing up then?



	HT:	Yes, they did. The problem was, their parents didn't get behind them, they wouldn't make them study. And when you mentioned coming to me, the parents wouldn't drag them out there. They were not there, and that was the biggest problem. The next biggest problem I had was getting parents to go whoop me out their room. They busted me about coming out there, they'd say "Mr. Toney, it'd be real useful to have two or three those with you." They promised me they gonna call, and when the time would come they'd back out. We had two. We had one in Camp Mild, and we'd have one in Bradenton, up in Bradenton.

	V:	Oh, that's a drive. BT:	Yeah.





	HT:	So we kept busy, going to a meeting or something, and the one that I really miss right now, went by myself with five cub scouts this time, and they wanted to improve this camp, in Immokalee, we went out there one night, I had the guys put up - it was in the dark when we left here. Gavin's gonna come with me, and he never showed up. I took him and we went out there, and we saw [inaudible 01:05:48] [Laughter]. I have a hatchet, that's all. I say, my kid told me [inaudible 01:06:03]. We were out there for a night. He said "They touched my tent last night, and they were big too." And I said "Well, he didn't bother you, you didn't bother him," but sure enough, same that night, he touched mine. I woke up and grabbed the hatchet, ‘cause it was the only thing I had. But I saw a bear, and whatnot, but they were looking for food. They didn't bother us, and we didn't bother them, but yes, there's quite a few of them. One kid came in the store the other day, and he said "Mr. Toney," he start talking about getting what he wanted, and it was a bird, and that's who - "Mr. Toney, you remember me?" I said "Yeah, I remember." I didn't, but someone told him. But they knew me.

	V:	Well, the interview's gone on for over an hour now, and I think I'm gonna cut it off here. Thank you guys so much for talking with me.

	BT:	Now you gotta put it together in order.



	V:	Now I have to go through the whole process of - it'll be me in my computer at home deciphering this out.

	HT:	Okay.





	V:	It'll be worth it. I don't remember what it is, but it takes about an hour for every ten minutes s or something like that. I gotta cut it off, the people back up in Gainesville, they're gonna be complaining.





[End of Interview]]



Audit-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

December 4, 2020

Final-Edited by

Sandra Romero

March 2, 2021