AAHP 516; Goston; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 516 Charles Goston Interviewed by Ryan Morini on September 5, 2017

1 hour 23 minutes | 37 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Charles Goston talks about his experiences of going to the University of Florida and the horrible treatment that accompanied being a person of color on campus. Having his identity constantly questioned on campus, he and a couple of students founded the Black Student Union on campus. It eventually led to the Institute of Black Student Culture which has become a staple for Black student on the University of Florida Campus.

Goston and a group of Black students also were the first to have a radio show on WRUF. At the time, the university’s opposition to having Black students on campus compounded with the racism that the black student faced by other students and faculty, led to Black Thursday. Black Thursday was a student led protest to stand up to the injustices that were imposed by the university. Goston was also a student of Lincoln High School and served in the United States military. He shares his experiences of both in this interview as well.



Keywords: [African American History; Gainesville, Florida; WRUF; Black Thursday; Institute for Black Culture; Black Student Culture; University of Florida]



AAHP 516

Interviewee: Charles Goston Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: September 5, 2017



	M:	So this is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. It’s September 5, 2017, and I’m here at City Hall in Gainesville with Commissioner Charles Goston and-

	B:	Juliette Barbera.



	M:	Juliette Barbera. So thanks for taking some time out of your very busy schedule. G:	You’re very welcome.

	M:	Could we start with you stating your full name?



	G:	Yeah, my full name is Charles Edward Goston, G-O-S-T-O-N.



	M:	Thank you. And given constraints of time, I guess, can I ask how you first ended up at UF?

	G:	Well, I ended up at UF solely because of my first wife. M:	Okay.

	G:	Dr. Betty, who was Betty Goston when I married her, but she ended up being Dr.



Betty Diddell later on. She was over the Oasis program and she worked in the Upward Bound program. But I was headed back to Florida A&M University. And I had made a commitment to her prior to going overseas, that, you know, when I returned I was gonna get married. Because that was a wish of hers, and at that time it was a wish of mine. But going overseas, if it doesn’t transform you, you was transformed before you left. And I was not. I was a young man who grew up poor, didn’t really realize it because everybody else around me was poor. My first





wife was middle-class, and those were the kind of trappings and kinda creature comforts that I wanted for my family, so, I mean, it was a good objective to try to reach. So that was a catalyst for me staying here, and I met Dr. David Horne, who was the first African American professor. And it was the youngest at the university. And I had an accidental meeting with him one day on campus, and we started talking and he said, “Charles you oughta stay. This is gonna be a very historic time, and we need you to be here.” Because I was fresh back from Vietnam—Germany—because I was drafted so I had a lot of experiences packed into a two-year span of time. I saw a lot. And I grew up here in Gainesville. Born here and my experiences at UF as a teenager were not the best ones, because you gotta realize, back in the early [19]60s when I used to go over out there and sell coats. When Ben Hill Griffin was floor-to-field. They had wooden seats. And our bus driver, Mr. Yule, he was the one who would recruit young men like me to come out on Saturdays and sell Cokes. And it became so oppressively difficult to sell Cokes because they would call the White young men “Coke boys” and they’d just tell us, “Nigga, bring me a Coke.” And after a certain amount of games I just couldn’t do that. That was just too much for me. And so I went back to Mr. Yule and I told him. I said, “Look. I can’t do this.” I said, “Because I may end up in jail. And I know it. I’m not gonna let them call me that.” And technically it’s okay. It’s because you’re out there and you’re drunk and you’re having your fun and you’re into your one hundred percent Whiteness. But that ain’t gonna cut it with me.

And, see, my motivation to do it was because my mother was a single mom. I was the oldest. I’m trying to help her, so that little bit of money that I made there,





I’d give it to her. But back then, ten—fifteen dollars was a lot of money. You know. And so with that kind of history, and having worked at Hume Hall, worked at a couple of other places in the kitchen and stuff like that. So we were subjected as African Americans to a lot of verbal abuse, a lot of stuff like that.

And UF was not my first choice. It wasn’t even on the radar. But I saw the opportunity to try to change it. I saw the folks who were from Gainesville who were going to UF that same year. They wanted to do the same thing. Because a lot of people felt like we were kids who were basically there because of Affirmative Action. Affirmative Action didn’t have a damn thing to do with us being there. The university went back and they found out who were the students in the last three years after—in the [19]60s who scored the highest on what back then was the High School Equivalency exam. Now it’s called the SAT. Okay. And they tried to recruit all of those. Because it came down to the federal government telling Florida, “Either you bring in minorities or we take your research money.” It was strictly economics. It’s not because UF and Ocala and them felt like, “Well, you know we love Black folks so much we want to integrate.” No. Because when the first two African American athletes went to Jacksonville, Atlanta, Georgia when they joined the Florida football team, Ray Graves told them, emphatically, “I ain’t coaching no niggas.” Openly. And instead of firing his ass, they promoted him to Athletic Director. And when he became the AD even years later, you had to go through his back door if you were Black. So I’m just saying that is the kinda stuff that was endured and it was motivated because here I’m saying to myself, “Well, I went overseas and fought for my country. Bled for my country. And I’m





coming back and dealing with this bullshit.” Right? And I expected more. And so I said, “Well, if I’m gonna be a part of something and I had watched Dr. King do everything he did during the [19]60s, just for what we should have had as a normal God-given birthright as a citizen of the United States of America. But when you actually go and you fight and defend this country—well, a lot of people didn’t. They ran to Canada. They had their mommas and daddies to do this so that had. I mean, Trump didn’t do nothing. And he got five or six deferments. I mean, we couldn’t afford to do that. You had to go and fight for your country. So it all comes back to the essence of—we did not come out to Florida to make an impression. We came out there to leave one. And we did. Because we created the Black Student Union. We put together the Institute of Black Culture. My ex- wife brought in all the Black sororities. The Deltas, the AKAs, the Zetas, and Black sororities that was accessible and that she could set up. So it was that, that motivated me. Because this was a Sleepy Hollow town, which it still is. This was a town that was basically ran and controlled by, I guess, ten or fifteen or twenty rich families that they still run. There are two of them that are running it now. And they called the shots politically and everything else. But that was my motivation for coming. I mean, to change and to really see if the university—which was the last university in the South to desegregate, because they never integrated. To see if it really would make a difference. Now, I had the opportunity to be the first group of African Americans to have a radio show at WRUF. That was a blessing. When Adojan was there. Before I got there. I was next and then James Brown was the third person to come. And then a George was also a member of the first





African Americans to have a show on WRUF. So we had a show on Saturday night. It started out, I think, three—four hours from like 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. And then Otis Boggs and Bob Leach. So the show was really popular among folks, students, and the city. So they extended the hours. We started coming on, like at 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. And then after that, they gave us a Friday night to come on.

Then that led into them having gospel shows on Sunday morning. Because that was the only form of urban communication that Black people had at that time. So we had rallies and we had to form organizations to help escort young Black women from their evening classes back to their one dorm that they had them living in, which was right across from Ben Hill Griffin. And because the White guys were jumping on and beating up the Black young ladies as they came from class. So we took about thirty or forty of us and we had meetings and we found out the ladies who needed escort services who had evening classes. And we would be there waiting on them when they came out of the class. So I’m saying these are the kinda things that existed there. We did things that these kids never would do. We brought on some of the best musical groups. We found out that we had student funding, student activities money. We used that to bring on people like Muhammed Ali on campus when he was out of boxing. The Temptations and other groups like that. We brought on some of the most phenomenal speakers.

Dick Gregory and other folks. So as I said Dr. David Horne was a playwright. It was not only just a Black History professor. I mean, he was Black history. Him and David Freemont and, I mean, a whole lot of people. I can’t think of all of the names of the people who really stood up and they put their lives on the line and I





mean, we did things that have never been duplicated. We had two of the first and only Black History Parades in Gainesville, all the way from the University of Florida campus, all the way downtown. Same route that the Homecoming Parade route is. You probably can go back through the Gainesville Sun archives and probably find stories and pictures of that. But I’m just saying, we just did a lot of things that we thought were going to make the university better. And then, here it is in 2017 and I had to go back out there and help them save the Institute of Black Culture and the Latin and Hispanic House of Culture. And that should not even exist. And to add insult to injury, all of the faculty who first decided not to work with these students—when we had the town hall meeting here—I think it was August 23rd if I’m not mistaken. None of them showed up. And, yeah, I wanted them to show up because they needed to hear what the students had to say face-to-face. So you couldn’t tell them that, “Well, you know, we can’t schedule you, we can’t violate this policy.” When there are no policies to violate. See, my attitude and position on that is—how can you tell the kids that they are gonna be the ambassadors to represent the University of Florida when they graduate, and you tell them that you want them to exercise their right as citizens to vote, and you want them to vote? But you don’t want the people who they elect to support them. But we’re supposed to be only at campus. That’s supposed to be the bastion of intellectual, gifted folks. And they always got some initiative in this kinda program. When do the initiatives turn into implementations? I mean, realistic, tangible things that you can see, feel, touch, and relate to. It does not happen out there. And that’s what needs to change, so, what we did back in the





[19]70s was supposed to be the nucleus for today. Where kids can walk together on campus and don’t be afraid that you’re walking with your White friend and then they gonna beat your ass tomorrow. Okay? Because you’re with a Black person. Or you can walk with a Hispanic young lady and then they wanna beat both of y’all asses tomorrow because they don’t want neither one of y’all on campus. But you still have that going on today. We thought that, in 1971, that that would change this future. And it didn’t. Because you have Black folks who bought into the pseudo-intellectual position. They wanted to put in their twenty or twenty-five years, and I say this all the time when I give speeches on campus, and I specifically tailor it for campus, and I tailor it for my Black brothers and sisters. We cannot continue to think that a bachelor’s degree means that you can separate yourself from your own people or people of color fifty percent. A master’s degree does not give you the cards block to separate yourself from your people, Black or Hispanic or any other minority by seventy-five percent.

And, hell, if you get a doctor’s degree, you say, “Hell, I ain’t gotta deal with them, period.” And they don’t. And you can go back and do the research and see.

When a Black person gets a doctor’s degree, they don’t even deal with this regular, everyday Black people. They only associate with doctor’s degrees of other ilks. Okay. Even when they move into their own neighborhood, they don’t interact with nobody but other people with doctor’s degrees. Why? When it was those same people who look like me, and look like her, that taught us when they was segregated high schools here in Gainesville—Lincoln High School. Now suppose they would’ve had that attitude. They could have got their degrees from





FAMU, Bethune-Cookman, Spelman, and other places, and went north. And woulda got paid, and really became a part of their community. They came right back to Gainesville and they taught us. So why now do we have to have this exclusive club of PhD’s and master’s degrees people who don’t think they have an allegiance to the minority community? That’s crazy. And I relate that to Dr.

King. Now suppose Dr. King, when they came to him about Rosa Parks, said, “Well, she gets in jail, she didn’t give up the seat when the man asked her to give up her seat.” I suppose Dr. King woulda been like, “Damn.” And he woulda said, “Well, hell, Rosa Parks know what the law is. When a White man come and ask you for your seat you get your ass up and go on to the back.” He coulda said that. He coulda turned it around and said, “Look at my wife. Beautiful woman.

Look at my children. Why should I put my life and their lives on the line for somebody who didn’t want to follow the law?” But there was a deeper consciousness in Dr. King. And he told them, “Well, you come back tomorrow. Let me talk it over with my wife and I’ll give you my decision.” And we know what his decision was. Okay. So this is what I’m talking about. This is what drives me, even today. Because I don’t understand that. I just don’t. People before you, they made the ultimate sacrifice. Other people just rode on their shoulders. And if you back now and you look at the signs that people would carry in the [19]60s about better jobs, better education, end of the segregation, and everything else, and hell, we’re still fighting those same wars today. Nothing changed except the calendar. Okay. The University of Florida has to change. If they want to continue to represent themselves as the welcoming city, the sanctuary city, the city who





believes in diversity—which they don’t—because you gotta look at a realism that you got Professor Nunn, over at the law school. He done had to sue the university four times for discrimination! Four times! Really? [Laughter] I mean, come on, man. And so these are the kinda things that people don’t wanna look at. They don’t wanna look at the fact that Florida has no African Americans in the athletic department that holds any position of authority. Not one. When they had a chance to select Charlie Strong as the new football coach after he had won championships with Steve Spurrier, and another coach over there, the guy who’s a coach now at Ohio State. They said no. But he ended up getting hired at one of the most racist and restricted universities in the United States—Texas! Texas didn’t even want him. Okay? But I’m just saying, you cannot continue to piss on people’s head and tell them it’s raining. You just can’t do it. Eventually they gonna look up and see what went down, what it’s coming from. And that’s what you have here. You think you’re gonna change the politics, but there is no change in the politics if you don’t challenge the impetus of what is making folks think that, “Well, I’ve got money. I’m White. I can do what I wanna do.” If that’s not challenged—if you don’t make them live the history that they created to keep this place segregated, to keep this place racist, then you will not change anything. And that’s why we went to the university. So that history could be repeated to them again, and say—and they get mad now. When you repeat their history to them! You know. They want you to disappear. “Well, how dare you say that?” “Well, I’m not telling you what I think. This is your history.” Okay? And it’s equal to how they describe the war between the Indians and the Americans who





migrated over here and took this country from the Indians. Now, when the Indians, who would protect and fight for their own country—this was their land. And they would fight back, and Whites would die. They would label that a massacre. The Indians came in and massacred all them people. But now when they go out and kill all the Indians, it was a military victory; historical moment. “We killed those savages.” Okay? So we have allowed racism to not only create the narrative, but control it. I am the apostolic angel that does not accept that.

And if you look up what an apostolic angel does, then you describing me. If there’s evil, I’m coming and I’m gonna do my best to destroy. If it’s wrong, I’m coming and I’m gonna do my best to correct it. If it’s something that’s been undone that needs to be done, I’m coming to get it done! Because, I mean, what I saw as a child, what I saw as a young man, has been the fuel that makes me wanna do what’s right, and never what’s wrong. I cannot go and live in a society where, because of the racism that was imposed on me and those who looked like me, and on women—that I’m gonna do the same thing to somebody else. Why would I wanna do that? I become them. I become the Donald Trumps and the Sessions and all these other folks who do things to people just because you have the power and the authority to do it. Based on laws that you wrote to give you that power to do it. Not because a person like me was sitting to the table, or somebody like her was sitting to the table. You did it with all your buddies. To give yourself the authority to do wrong. So the University of Florida opened up that intellectual part of my brain that allowed me to be as expressive as I wanna be. It allowed me to not be one of those that I detest, that I described earlier, as a





Black person. And, like I said, racist people, whether they be PhDs or GEDs, are the most dangerous people in the world. But we got Black folks who have GEDs and PhDs, are more dangerous than them! Because they hate themselves. They consider the uneducated Black person as a threat to them. And how can they be a threat to them? If you would’ve exposed and shared your knowledge with them, then they wouldn’t be ignorant. So I look at the university then, and I look at it now, and I wonder why there’s still the lack of Black professors out there. Why there’s a lack of so many kids who, right now, are preparing to withdraw from Florida and go somewhere else because of how they’ve been treated. And that’s why President Fuchs and all the rest of them should have been to that meeting to hear what those kids had to say. Because they were just a small, microscopic group. But they were speaking for the majority. So we got a long way to go at UF, man. I don’t know whether we gonna make it. And I feel like if they can—see, if they would have kept President Lombardi, and not allowed the fans element to try to label him as not being sensitive to the Black guy that was on the Board of Trustees. Hell, what he said wasn’t a lie. Because that’s what I said earlier— that’s what a lot of Black people do. They play the game. “Oh I dare not say nothing wrong. Oh I gotta fit in. I’ve got to assimilate.” [Laughter] If I invited her to be on my Board, my reason for inviting her would be to bring your qualities to the board. I wouldn’t want you to come in and act like me or no other Black person on that board. I want you to come in and act like you. Feel free to be yourself.

And if I can’t do that, what’s the purpose of inviting her? Optics. Cause you sure ain’t gonna listen to her input. That’s the difference between a person going to





University of Florida and learned something, versus somebody who went to University of Florida and just took a class. There’s two different sets of us. Those who took a class, they have absolutely nothing in time. They have no obligation to nothing, and nobody. Those of us who learned something, we learned that that information that was shared with us in those classes made us easier to deal with, made us more effective, is working with other folks, gave us an introspection that nobody else has, gave us a foresight that nobody else has, gave us the will to win. And we understand all those dynamics.

	M:	Well-said. So I do have a few questions. I don’t know if you do, too. B:	You can go ahead.

	G:	Okay, hold on. Let me run out and I’ll be right back. M:	Sure, sure.

	G:	Put it on pause. [Break in recording]

	M:	Oh, yes. All right. Thank you for pointing that out. I have a few questions, but one would be—so you went to Lincoln High, right?

	G:	Um-hm.



	M:	Okay. I know a lot of people have talked about Lincoln High in terms of how it encouraged leadership among the students who went there.

	G:	Um-hm.





	M:	I guess I have two questions: one, who were your mentors at Lincoln, and two, what aspects of going to Lincoln kind of prepared you for this work at UF, later? I’m gonna go ahead and assume that something there did, I guess, but—

	G:	Oh, yeah. Well, there was a lot of things. I attribute my success to coach Jesse Hurd and coach Bob Acosta, they saw talent in me when I was in seventh grade. I could really throw a football in seventh grade. I could catch it. I had a mental gift for the game. And Jerry Miller, who was the band director from Lincoln High School. He also saw a gift in me, which I had, which was my love of music. So I was caught between being an athlete and a musician. And I wish I could’ve done both. I tried but it just didn’t work. And Coach Hurd was the only one—I was the only person at Lincoln High School that was given the opportunity to be in the band and work as a trainer on the football team at the same time. It was not supposed to happen. But what Coach Hurd would do, when the football team would travel out of town, he would let me go with them as a trainer. Just so I could be around the game. And when we had home games, I marched with the band. So, I had the best of two worlds and just listening to him, being around Coach Hurd, I loved him like he was my daddy, cause my daddy wasn’t around me that much. But I was around Coach Hurd almost every day in school. And Mr. Jerry Miller was the band director. So those two men always prepared you to be a leader. And I didn’t know that I was in the band, that Mr. Miller wanted me to be a drum major. Which was one of the most prestigious positions at high school, at Lincoln. Because of our band. It’s the sense of our band that you could have had. I mean, people used to just sit back and just be in awe of our band, because we





had a really, really great band in high school. And most Black high schools did. But our only competition came from Raines in Jacksonville, and Jones High School in Orlando, and Jackson in Miami, and Blake in Tampa—all of the really, really big five or six state schools. And I think we were a four or five at that time. And we did not retreat. We expected success. We didn’t go and hope for success. We went looking for it. And we expected it! And Coach Hurd and Mr.

Miller and Coach Acosta, they instilled that in us. And they instilled a work ethic. That if you want it, you gotta work for it. If you want it, you got to endure to get it. Because you know who you are. You know how society treats you. You got to go beyond that. You got to look beyond that. They gave everybody a shot. No matter how sorry you were. And that’s why when people start talking about people like LeBron James, and I say, “Well, hell. I mean, why didn’t you get excited about LeBron James? If a person was six-foot-ten, playing basketball, and couldn’t do what he did, what would you call him? You’d call him sorry as hell! I mean, I get excited when I see Spark Well do what he does. [Laughter] Okay? Here’s a man that’s physically not supposed to do it, and he’s doing it.

He’s doing it in spite of, not because of. And that’s the kind of ideologies that our teachers passed on to us. You have to set a standard for the class that’s coming behind you. So that means that, no matter how high you raise the bar, the class behind you has to exceed that. And that’s all we did. “This class ahead of me, he did this. Well, I gotta do better than that.” That’s why, when my turn came to be drum major, I did better than my cousin. Because he was the drum major before me. [Laughter] And, you know, I had an opportunity to go to Florida A&M when I





was in tenth grade. My cousin was already in the 100. And when I saw them perform, I mean, it changed my whole life. And I thought that I had reached the apex at Lincoln, in the band. I said, “It can’t get no better than this.” Until I saw the Marching 100. And I knew there was something bigger. So everything I did from that point was to get me to Florida A&M. I never had any aspirations of being the first Black to go to Florida. [Laughter] I didn’t have any aspirations of being the first Black to go to Notre Dame, or Michigan. I wanted to be a part of the Florida A&M University family. And that was just as great of a motivator. And all my high school teachers, they would open the door for you. They would demand the best. They would get it outta you. People like Ms. Washington. Ms. Washington was our English teacher. Everybody, well, almost everybody, feared Ms. Washington because she would flunk you in a minute. But she didn’t flunk you because she could, she flunked you because you wasn’t trying. And she always told us that a person is evaluated by the language and the words that they use. If you talk like an idiot, then you’re in it. Unless you show them something different on the test. So, you have to learn how to speak, how to write the King and the Queen’s English. And you do it better than anybody else. They told us that somebody else’s minimum can never be your maximum. And I’ve never forgotten that, because they’d say it every day in school. Mr. Caldwell, who used to be the county manager. I mean, when you walked into his room, he taught social studies and political science. And when you’re a kid, you’re talking in the hall and you might walk into class and you’re still talking, and Mr. Caldwell says, “Unh-uh, gentlemen. When you walk in this room, you keep it professional.”





Everybody straightened up. So we had a discipline that does not exist in high schools today. Or middle schools, or even elementary schools. There was a respect for teachers. There was a respect for the family that wasn’t in school with you, but they were. They weren’t physically there but mentally they was there.

You did not want to embarrass, nor did you want to denigrate your mom, your grandmother, your auntie, your cousins. Everybody else who you knew you were representing their name. I was the first in my family to do a lot of things. Because my father had to drop out of school in seventh grade to help his mom because my grandfather dropped dead of a heart attack in his backyard. And today I understand the frustration that I used to see in my father all the time, because my father was an intelligent man, but he never had a chance to matriculate that intelligence into something that would have paid off for him. Because he had to do what he had to do. And I know when he probably started doing it, that he said, “Look, this is something I have to do to maintain my mother.” And I think it was, like, maybe twelve of them. And ten of them were girls. [Laughter] So he had to help them. The majority of them at that time, when I was in high school, they were married, but their husbands were not productive. So that meant that my father had to take care of them as if he was their father. I really didn’t understand that till later on, but that was the kinda motivator that they passed on to us, that education is your way out. It’s your window to success. And I believed it, because I saw the results of it. I saw that my schoolteachers all had nice houses, nice cars. They were respected in the community. I mean, what else could you want? That’s what I wanted. And we had teachers like Ms. Glasper. Mr. Mickle, who





was over the swim team, and he’d also talk tailoring. You had people like Mr. Fiss, Mr. Jones—in fact, Jones taught chemistry. So there was not any classes that we took that were ones that people ran away from. They ran to them. There was a sense of pride that was at Lincoln that you wouldn’t be able to imagine what it was like, unless, I’m trying to think of something that’s a comparison to it…I guess a Super Bowl would be a comparison. When you go out and see the fans, and how they root so desperately for their team, and they go to all kinds of extremes for just a team that’s not even theirs, it’s just from their city! [Laughter] But Lincoln was ours; it was all we had. And there was a love for Lincoln that goes beyond anything. You love Lincoln more than you love your girlfriend! But you love Lincoln in a way that it was equal to the way you love your mother, your gram—I mean, it was on that level! And there was no sacrifice that you felt was too big to make for Lincoln. And I’m saying it was like every class. If you ever came now to our Lincoln High School alumni functions, where all of the classes come together, then you could see it. And that’d be the time to see it. Because the competition between us is still there. The class of [19]60 still think that they’re the best class, okay? The class of [19]70 still think they’re the best class. And you have competition during those three or four days that we get together, and it’s just like being back in high school. We had talent shows, where every grade had their own singing groups, “Thespusiums.” And we were all trying to come up with things that we could do onstage to outperform the other class. We had intramural sports. It was an upset if the tenth grade class would win in a basketball intramural tournament over a twelfth grade class. That was like a





shock wave all the way through the school, you know? [Laughter] It was just that competitive. And it was that, and the fact that we did not want to let down the history of Lincoln and the success that Lincoln was having. I mean, I’m serious. We would go to schools and play them in football, basketball—you have band concerts, or we would go there for homecoming parade, and I’m telling you, you could see the fear in their face when we got off those busses. I’m serious! It was, to me, unbelievable but it became normal after a while. And to show you the advanced thinking of Coach Hurd—Coach Hurd, he was the “winningest” football coach in the state of Florida amongst Black high schools. When he would go on the road, it usually would take three busses to carry the football team. The first bus would have the smallest guys on the team. So if you was a person at the school we was coming to, you’d see the first bus unload, you thought, “Man, we could beat these guys!” But now the second bus were bigger guys. The third bus had the biggest, colossal guys! So by the time they unloaded, you said, “Man, ain’t no way we gonna beat them.” [Laughter] And that was true! I mean, Coach Hurd was so advanced in what he was doing in the [19]60s. This is what he would do. Coach Hurd would go and play a football game. And our colors were red and white, okay? We would come out the first half in all red. Halftime we’d go in—hell, we’d come out in all white with red numbers! And everybody would say, “Is that the same team?” Yeah. Same team. But the psychology behind it was more than they could handle. Because they barely had the uniforms they had!

And I’m telling you, I saw it work time after time after time. I mean, we could be behind. Because the referees made sure we were behind. But when they come





back out in that second half in a different whole set of uniforms—shoes, socks, pants, shirt, helmet, everything is totally different. You’re talking the [19]60s. And the psychology would flip. And the kids who were playing couldn’t deal with that. And we’d just run over them. That is an inspiration within itself. But I got in tenth grade—Mr. Miller, which was a very straight person. I was talking about this last night with Coach Burgess’s daughter, and I said, “The only thing that was embarrassing for me, being back in high school band, was that Mr. Miller was such an aficionado about music.” And not doing the dances, and not playing the modern music of the [19]60s era—we never played a James Brown song. Every other band came in and played James Brown, you know? [Laughter] All kinds of good stuff. We played the classical stuff. The stuff where you could sit back and hear every last group of instruments, and say, “Wow.” If you’re concert, right, but now marching—they couldn’t touch us marching! But we weren’t playing the stuff that other high schools were playing. And that frustrated us. So when I was in tenth grade, he kinda loosened up. He said, “Okay, you guys make up your halftime shows.” Which was a mistake. [Laughter] It was! Because everything that we would see, like, FAMU do, or Bethune-Cookman do—oh we just gonna bring that back. And we was gonna use that! So we brought back what FAMU does, which is called a snake, where they make a long tunnel and the last people to come through is a drum major and the tubas, and then they really, really, really turned it out then. But we started doing that kinda stuff, and Mr. Miller’s sorta reaction of the fans in the stands—he realized that he was hurting us more than he was helping us with the other stuff. And that’s the kinda thing that, for me—a





lot of people say, “I’m not gonna stay home. I’m coming to school. But these are the kinda elements that built you as a leader. And being drum major, you had to be a leader. You had to conduct the band. You had to direct the band. You had to be a disciplinarian, because that’s why Mr. Miller picked you. Because he knew that you were a person with leadership qualities. And I took pride in that. I mean, we didn’t have crooked lines, we ain’t play that. We did not tolerate somebody who done practice a routine all week and then here you are missing notes. No way. Well, if you do that, that means that—well, we would silence them. And tell them, “You just hold the horn. Don’t even blow, since you don’t know what to blow.” And that’s the kinda pride that we brought to Lincoln and that’s what Lincoln instilled in us. And even the last class had said that they were gonna turn the lights out. They brought it too. And I wasn’t here then, cause I was in the military, but I knew that they didn’t have a choice. They brought it. But that whole thing about Lincoln High School was the worst decision that was ever made, because when you look at it, you have to ask yourself the question, that I think is a very most pervasive question, is why did they just shut down the Black schools? Made them junior highs. You never touched a White school and shut it down. Well, basically because they don’t want the White students coming to the Black schools. And I compare that to—I been helping kids get into Black colleges now for the last, what, twenty-five years? And I had a good friend of mine, but a lot of them, they recently—he’s White. Multi-millionaire! And he called me one day, probably in May. And he said, “Charles, I wanna talk to you about something. About my daughter.” I said, “Okay, good!” He said, “I want you to be





straight with me.” I said, “That’s the only thing I can be.” He said, “Well, she wants to go to school, to the business school at Florida A&M. What do you think?” And I said, “What do you think I think?” He said, “I don’t know, that’s why I called you!” I said, “Well, look. Let me tell you something. I suggest because your daughter is White, does not mean that once she becomes an official rattler that she’s not gonna be embraced just like everybody else up there who’s a Florida A&M rattler.” I said, “She’s gonna be protected more than if you sent your daughter to UF. And she’s White. She’s not gonna be rejected for any activity.

She’s gonna be embraced. She’s not gonna be denied help. She’s gonna be given that help. The women up there are gonna love her, and include her in all kinds of activities, if she wanna get into them. And her color’s not gonna mean nothing!” I said, “It’s only UF that the color thing means something!” And I said, “I’ll tell you what. If you don’t believe it—” and I mean, seriously, these are multi- millionaires. He’s filthy rich. I said, “I’ll tell you what I’ll do.” I said, “We’ll ride up to FAMU and I’ll introduce you to the president, and the dean of the business school, and everything else, and other people, the head football coach—so you’ll get a chance to see how we treat people! Not by color. But once you become a rapper, man, we don’t care what color you are! You’re a rattler now, that’s it.” And I took him up, took him around the university, and this is his daughter’s last year in grad school. And she’s more of a promoter for FAMU. [Laughter] So I’m saying, that’s the culture we live in. And it’s a throwback to segregation, when, like, if you went up north and you had an opportunity and an interaction where your girlfriend, your wife, was White—you couldn’t go to her neighborhood! But





you could surely come to the Black neighborhood. Nobody said nothing to you. Nobody rejected her. You know? Where we don’t burn crosses when nobody brought in nothing in your front yard. So, I’m just saying, that’s the difference! And coming up in that era allowed us to not wanna be like the folks who were oppressing us. But now these young boys today are totally different. They feel they’re being denied, they’re being oppressed. They’re being short-changed and marginalized and minimized. And, hell, their reaction would be totally different from what ours was. So, they don’t have a Lincoln High. I wish they did. Then you wouldn’t see numbers like eight thousand African American boys suspended every year in Alachua County. I’m thinking that’s a quota they shoot for. Because they really do. Cause I do a report in my magazine, Black College Monthly— some of the front covers, they be on the wall where I document that stuff. And every year, it’s eight thousand Black males suspended! And I’m saying to myself, how can you suspend that many people in Alachua County that look like me, knowing that once you suspend them for five days, ten days—you know, let them have access to the teacher. They can’t get their homework. Can’t go to class.

Fail. Failure. Never catch up. And the teachers know it. The school board knows it. Why do you do it? Out of my whole six years of going to Lincoln, I can’t remember anybody that was suspended, not even for fighting! Because if you fought at Lincoln High School, they would take that fight from wherever you started it at, and say, “Okay, we gonna bring this fight to the gym.” They’d put some gloves on you and this other guy, and they’d let all the classes out, and then they would be all crowded in the gym, and now you are the spectacle!





That’s what you wanted to be, right? The spectacle? Now, fight. Until you can’t fight no more. But now you’re wearing gloves. So you can’t pick up a stick, you can’t pull out a gun, you can’t pull out a knife, you gotta use what God gave you. And after that, these two men would be friends from that point on. But you don’t have teachers like that. You don’t have rules that allow you to discipline folks.

You don’t have rules that allow you to modify a young man’s—a young lady’s behavior. There is no behavior modification in schools. Lincoln High School had that. That’s why we never had that kinda problem! See. That magic no longer exists. But like I said, you’ve got to come back and ask yourself, “Why did they close them?” And not only that, they destroyed every bit of history that was a part of it. All the way from the [19]20s to the [19]30s to the [19]40s, [19]50s and [19]60s—gone. If I wanted to take my grandson out to see what I did in high school, can’t do it! But, now somebody who went to GHS can! They can take their great-great-grandson out there and say, “Look. There goes Daddy right there. He played football and so and so and so and so.” Picture right there!

Trophy right there! Buchholz, same thing. But you can’t do it. All of that is a part of a racist system that—once you destroy a person’s language, and their history, you pretty much destroy them. They have no culture. That’s why one time they were talking about reparations. And they said, “Well, suppose you got reparations. Every Black person got two million dollars. And a free trip home. To Africa.” Where would you go? Where would you tell that pilot to land? You’d crash. Cause you couldn’t. I mean, that’s how destroyed our Black culture is.

That we don’t know where we come from, we don’t know our language, our





history, nothing. That was intentional. Just like closing Lincoln High School and all the other Black institutions was intentional. See, I’m gonna bring this home for you, cause that was a great question. There was a friend of mine, we was in grad school. She was a friend of mine in undergrad. She was one of the very few White females that participated in the Black Student Union and the other organizations. Cause we’d go out and feed the people in the community that couldn’t feed themselves. The older people, we’d go out and help them get to where they wanted to go, and we had a tutorial program. We had the first free breakfast program in Gainesville. Where we would get up, we had this health food store over here on 13th Street. Used to call—what was it called? It’s called Sunflower, I think. Health foods.

	B:	Yeah, I think they closed.



	G:	Yeah. But there was a one before them. But it was in the same building. And they put together the cereal, and all that stuff. We had a poultry company provide the eggs every morning. And we would feed the kids. But, anyway, the point that I’m driving home with this is that with closing schools, not giving kids—the African Americans, the chance to have something that they can really relate to, and say, “Well, I wanna contribute to that.” You have destroyed the beginning, and the end, and that’s what this young lady told me. Her father was a senator when they were trying to decide which way they were gonna vote for the Civil Rights Bill.

She said, “Well—” And I never knew that! Because she never dressed like she was rich and affluent. She just like everybody else. And she was just telling me that day, she said, “Well, Charles, you know, I was there. My father told me





‘Come into the Library so you can be a part of this historic decision we’re gonna make.’” So she said she came into the Library and all these other senators was in there, and they all devoured the hours about how they was gonna vote, why they was gonna vote this way. They all had arguments for and against. And she said one of them stood up and said, “What are we doing this for? What is the purpose of this?” And everybody looked astonished, just saying, “What are we here for? We gotta make a monumental vote here on the Civil Rights Bill!” He said, “How can we do nothing but vote for it?” And so now he really got everybody confused, cause everybody in the room was White, okay? [Laughter] And most of them didn’t wanna vote for it. He said “Why aren’t we?” “What reason could we give for not voting for this?” He said, “What group of people would allow you to put them in jail, stick dogs on them, beat them up, knock them down with fire hoses, kill their leaders, kill their children, when all they wanna do is bring you their damn money? And we’re telling them, ‘No, don’t do it.’ We don’t want there to be no world wars. We don’t want them to buy at these different stores.” He said, “We’re the ones that stupid.” He said, “All they wanna do when they come to our schools is send their best and their brightest. They ain’t gonna send no dummies. We the damn dummies. But at the same time, we can destroy everything they have built up. Their neighborhoods, their culture, even their future.” That was too deep. But it was true. Because when you look at a Florida football team, you don’t see no average Joe out there playing football. They go out and get the best Black athlete they can find. He all right, long as he got the orange and blue on. But when he take that shit off and walk down the street, he’s





just another Black man. He could just ask—knock side the head and took to jail, just like me or anybody else. Kids in Alabama: they take off that red and white, walk down the street. Just another Black man in Alabama subject to the same shit that any other person that ain’t never played it down. And White folks will cheer for you while you’re out there on that doggone field representing what they believe and what they love. Because the best—the African American community has a gift. They got it. Okay? There was a reason why they—you know. White schools would not play Black schools during segregation. That’s why the coach of Alabama, Bear Bryant, he played Southern Car[olina]for a reason. That was during the heart of segregation! And White folks had never seen a Black athlete inside of that stadium in Alabama. Until Southern Car[olina] came, and they was introduced to a football player called Sam the “Bam” Cunningham. And he ran all over their ass all day long. And when those White folks left that stadium, they realized, “Something wrong with us.” Bear Bryant told them, when they interviewed him after the game, they said, “But Coach, what you gonna do?” Said, “You were beat up pretty bad out there today.” He said, “Yeah. I was.” He said, “But I don’t get what the governor of Alabama saying, them same horses that ran over me today, I’m gonna have me some of them horses next year.” And he did. Okay? So everything this young lady said, you see it! So now, Black college’s athletic programs are suffering. Because the best ones are going to the White schools with the promise that you’re going to the NFL, because they’ve already got connections in the NFL, because all those coaches have came through somebody’s White college coaching ranks and graduated to the National





Football League. So you can dangle that carrot in front of every little stupid Black kid’s face. “We sent ten to the NFL.” So now he’s saying, “Oh, yeah, I’m good enough. I know I’ll be one of them ten.” He may never get a degree! He may never step on the field as a National Football League player. But they sucker him into that. But he was the best that that high school had to offer. Okay? So we never look at the realistic motivations behind what Lincoln High School stood for, what we did in 1971, what other kids did when they’re the first Black to go to the University of Alabama when they’re saying, “No, we don’t want segregation today, segregation tomorrow, segregation forever—” Yeah, right. Until you get somebody who you can exploit and make trillions of dollars off of. Saying what you did when you had us in the cotton field. What’s the difference? You ain’t paying us. You didn’t pay us then. There was zero unemployment when we was picking cotton. Zero! Even little kids had a job! Carrying water out there to the people out there picking cotton in the field. But as soon as they said “No,” I just said, “Well, you gotta pay them now.” Then you saw the origination of Black unemployment. Okay? But we never stopped and even analyzed this stuff. And we should. We have to. And I tell people, one thing good about being in the media, is that we don’t tell people what to think. But we doggone should tell them what to think about. That’s worse than telling them what to think. Okay? Because once you tell them how to zero in on what to think about, you have totally inoculated that individual. You control them. You control their every thought. So, people who have never had their mind expanded—see, when I give a lecture that’s what I do, I expand their minds. I say, “Hey. First you have to understand





why you are where you are. You got to understand why you feel the way you feel. You got to understand where you’re going. But if you don’t know where you’ve been, how you gonna know where you’re going?” History is there for a reason. So you won’t duplicate it! I’m telling you, when people sit back and they listen to this today; things that I’ve said, they never thought about—they’re gonna think about it. Then they’re gonna see how easy it is for them to create KKKs.

How easy it is for them to create alt-rights. How easy it is for them to, you know, to bring this guy on campus. Easy! They’ve created the atmosphere for it! Okay? They’ve created a climate man, that’s—going to the beach in Miami. Because if they didn’t want that, if they didn’t feel the same way they would not—look. Look at the contrast between President Obama, and the things he wanted to do, and Trump. They took away everything decent that President Obama wanted to do for America. President Obama kept folks, the same folks that didn’t like him, kept them out of the soup line, because if he wouldn’t have bailed out the banks, the auto industry, and did some other things, there’d be a lot of people in the soup line. He kept people with jobs, gave them healthcare. And the Republicans fought him every step of the way. So we ain’t gonna do nothing. Nothing we gonna do for this man. Not because he was a Democrat. It’s because he was a Black man. That’s why everything Trump is doing is trying to erase President Obama’s history. Like he never existed. He’s trying to do to him what Pharaoh did to Moses. When the pharaoh said, “I want you to remove Moses from every temple, every tabernacle, every gate, every book, so he would not exist in our history.” But all he’s doing is bringing emphasis to what Obama really did.





[Laughter] That’s how stupid he—see, racism is like a bad disease, or a rope. You give the racists enough rope, they’ll hang themselves. You can sit back and wait. They’re gonna do it. Because they think that getting away with what they’re doing is a freedom. And all people are doing is saying, “Hmm. Gee, whiz. I didn’t know it was like that.” And it wakes up that consciousness in them. And it’s like somebody who says that I’m a Christian, but where’s the God consciousness?

See, you’ll only be a Christian, or a Catholic, or a Muslim, or Jewish if you have that consciousness, that religious consciousness is what wakes you up. It’s what tells you, “No, I’m not gonna do that. Charles is gonna do it, but I’m not. I’m not gonna do that.” And, when you see people who say, “Well, this woman shouldn’t have the right to choose.” What they’re saying in essence is that she’s really not a human being. She’s still under mass objection. That she needs my help, because she’s not complete. All right? But then on the other hand, she’s complete when you want her to do tasks that you want her to do. And that falls upon your so-called religious spectrum. Are you serious? There’s nowhere in the Bible or nowhere else where God or anybody else said that a woman had to be told what to do. And I remind people of this, if you’re a Christian, I say, “Now, when Jesus was crucified, the people who followed him all the way up on that hill where they put him at: was his mama, and his sister, and Mary Magdalene, and a couple of other ladies. Where was them twelve disciples that was so in love with him?” They was somewhere hiding out. You know? When he arose from his tomb, the first person to lay eyes on him was a woman. It was a woman he told to go and tell them scary disciples he had that he had risen and that he had a job





for them to do. So how do you go from that, to a woman is stupid and she can’t make her own decisions. Huh? I mean, how do we allow the narrative to be screwed up in some verses that somebody else wrote that wasn’t a part of history? I ask people all the time, I say—and this is a question you can ask a lot of Christians. How long did it take for Christians to call Christianity, “Christianity,” after the death of Jesus? That’s right. It gets just like that. You get that crickets. [Laughter] Because they don’t know! It took two hundred years before Christianity was called that. Why did it take two hundred years? See, there’s certain questions that you ask people, that you recognize the politicization of controlling folks with words, and with religion, and with racism, and with stuff that should not exist in this country. I tell people that until we can live up to the last words of the Pledge of Allegiance, “With liberty and justice for all,” we lie to everybody. But that’s what I live up to. And that’s what I fight for in this office every day. If you ain’t treating her the same way you’re treating you, I’m not gonna sit there, man, and be silent. I’m gonna bring it to your attention and I’m gonna continue until you change! Most people won’t do that because they’re worried about their butt. When you get to a certain point, where you go from Lincoln to UF to the rest of my life, it’s all the same script. I’m just more effective at what I do. And I don’t think God would’ve put me in this position if he didn’t want me to be more effective. But, now, change is a hard thing to poke. They can’t do it. For folks who feel like they don’t have to, man, it’s like bumping your head against that wall. You’re gonna hurt you, you ain’t gonna hurt them. And it’s like I tell people when they start talking about certain things, I say, “Look. You





talking like a woman who see a man that she know he’s a crook. She know he’s a crook. She know he’s a liar. She know he’s one hundred percent no good. And she look at him and say, ‘I can change him.’” Really? [Laughter] And I tell her quickly, “You can’t change the devil. But the devil can damn sure change you.” You know what I mean? So don’t come back to me five years from the day, talking about “I should have listened.” Nah, you should have listened five years ago. Then them five you threw away, you could have did something different with them. Certain people are on certain tracks and they have made that their destiny. It’s like you’ve got certain people who are on good tracks, and they’ve made that good track their destiny. We don’t watch things critically, and we should.

Everything should be looked at and evaluated with a critical eye. Critical process. And if not, you’re gonna be swept up in the B.S. I’m not gonna do that, I never did. I’m hoping that these words will find the brains of those who are looking for the right solutions, for the right questions, for the right situations that they find themselves in, because, like I said, a solution is simple once you find it. A solution is difficult when you don’t know what the hell the answer is. But once you find the answer, it’s simple. It’s all simple. If we did the right thing, it all ended— did you have another question for me?

	M:	I can come up with tons of questions. I know you don’t have a lot of time. G:	But you can always come back.

	M:	Yeah.





	G:	They asked me politically, “What would bring this country together?” We can come together when somebody is threatening us, like 9-11 and all this kinda stuff, and Pearl Harbor, and all of that. But do you know that if we didn’t have any political parties, you’d have to stand on your own merit—and that would make America, America? Because you couldn’t hide behind a Republican platform.

You couldn’t hide behind a Democratic platform. You couldn’t hide behind a Green platform. You had to hide behind your platform! And you could really get to the core of things a whole lot quicker. America would have to be America then.

Because a lot of people hide behind labels. Because they don’t have to do nothing. “I’m a Democrat.” And? “I’m a Republican.” And? And when you allow that, then you allow situations like what we have now, where the Republican Party has become a safe haven for all of the bad things, all of the racism and the way they know—the skinheads couldn’t exist in the Democratic Party because they don’t allow it! But they do in the Republican Party. The KKK would never exist in the Democratic Party. But they exist in the Republican Party. The alt-right would never—because they allow it. But if they didn’t have that to hide behind, they wouldn’t exist.

	M:	Pardon. Can I ask a quick question that kind of backtracks a little bit?



	G:	Yeah, let me go—let me check. I’m checking on the stuff, waiting to see if it’s— M:	So, when Lincoln closed, were you in Vietnam, or were you going to US—

	G:	Yeah. I was in Vietnam.



	M:	You were in Vietnam. Okay. When did you find out about it?





	G:	Not until I got back. It was closed. Yeah. M:	Okay. So when did you actually get to UF? G:	It was like, January of [19]71.

	M:	January, [19]71. Okay, so you’re starting, like, spring semester in the middle of the year.

	G:	Right.



	M:	I mean, do you have a minute, or— G:	Um-hm.

	M:	So, can you describe a little of kind of what leads up to Black Thursday? Like, how did you first start getting involved in—

	G:	I was involved from the beginning. [Laughter] I didn’t have a choice. I mean, David Horne was the tip of the spear for that. And I’m gonna give you his number, so you can call him and interview him.

	M:	Please do.



	G:	And, like I said, David Freeman and all these other students, they got together and they decided, “Well, we need more teachers. We need better conditions.” We need this and we needed that. And so they decided to write down a list of demands for President O’Connell, which was a bad idea. And we thought it was gonna be an amicable meeting, that turned out not to be. Only because when they went in, they gave him the list of demands or as we called them, “strong suggestions,” but they were good ideas! Everything would have been to enhance





the environment for everybody. And he looked at them and didn’t want to discuss them, and we just asked him, “Well, is there any way we can pick out some of them and discuss them?” He didn’t wanna discuss any. And so he told us to get out. [Laughter] And so we said we wasn’t going. So we sat down. That was the end of that, because he had a second to call the police, and back then they had this big old orange and blue bus—old-school bus they had converted. Next thing we know, man, they was coming in and arresting every damn body. We standing outside, trying to figure out what’s going on. Everybody walking out in plastic handcuffs. And so that pissed everybody off, and we said, “Well, we cannot deal with this.” People withdrew, and marched, and that was the night the highway patrol brought down tanks, down the middle of University Avenue. They didn’t tell you that? Yeah, man! They was dressed up in ride gear, had a big Florida Highway Patrol tank, like the ones I drove when I was in Germany, a big Sherman. Yeah. The National Guard marching right behind them, and drop step. Because we were still standing on the steps above Tigert Hall. There were several administrators at Tigert Hall who were there to recruit Black students.

They resigned and left. Now, David remembered their names. Because, like I said, David was more or less the heart and soul of that whole operation. And now he’s a professor out in California. He’s been out there now maybe twenty-five years. But they ran away from here. [Laughter] And when you talk to him, I mean, he’s a really, really good man. And I’ve been trying to get the university—and they could invite all these kinda people back to the university but him. He’s written about maybe fifteen books? His first book was written about the first Black





jockeys, who really started horse racing. And he’s been to Africa too many times to count. And back then, we had something called pan-African skills, where we would go to Africa for like two months. They would send people over here for two months. And you would exchange cultures and bring your talents to them, and they would come over here and learn whatever, and bring their talents here. And that was something that David started, too. I’m telling you, it was a lot. So much stuff happened, I can’t even remember all of it. Because every day there was something different. We had the first Black newspaper that I was the editor of.

There’s only one copy left. It’s called The Black Explosion. It was the first university newspaper ever published at UF, and there has not been another one. And Otis Stover has the last copy of that. He’ll let you look at it. He’ll go and have you copy me, at probably Renaissance somewhere, but he’s not gonna turn it loose. [Laughter] I’ll tell you that now. But I’ll give you Otis’s number. Let me give you Otis’s number, so if you wanna see that paper, you can.

	M:	Appreciate that. . . You think he’d let us scan it?



	G:	Yeah, if he’s standing right there with you! [Laughter] But other than that, no, he ain’t gonna do it. Otis’s number is 352-372-6278. His name is Otis Stover Jr.

	M:	Excellent.



	G:	So I’m just saying. All these people can fit in there and it plugs. And they’ll lead you to somebody else that can lead you to somebody else. You’ll get a real full picture of how things were. But I’ll tell you, they were very chaotic. Man, they were very hot. We were threatened every day now, by the police. I’m serious.





	M:	UPD or GPD? Or both?



	G:	GPD, FBI, you damn name it. It kind of makes you ask the question: how is it that the KKK people could survive and go buy armor equipment and get all these guns and all this stuff, and here it is the Black Panthers only wanted to feed the neighborhood, and help the neighborhood, and they murdered every damn last one of them, or ran them out of the country. Sad, cause there’s some things you just have to ask yourself. And right now if you had a Black organization that resembled the alt-right, Jeff Sessions and everybody else would find a way to kill every damn last one of them. And they wouldn’t be doing nothing but the same thing the alt-right is doing. So I’m saying, yeah, David would be able to answer other stuff. That was a bad day. My first wife, she withdrew from Florida at that time, too—Betty. A lot of people withdrew. Just like those kids did last year from Florida. And that’s never been mentioned. And it makes you really ask another question: what is it, that when things are bad at Florida, they keep it on campus? It’s like they’re in a concentration camp out there or something. You ever notice that?

	M:	Um-hm.



	G:	Now they won’t let the media bring it out off campus. None of that. But what I’m gonna do is—were you at the meeting when the students came?

	B:	Yeah, I was there.



	G:	Okay. Do you have a copy of that meeting? B:	What do you mean, copy?





	G:	A DVD.



	B:	Oh, recorded? Oh, no I didn’t. I don’t have one.



	M:	We got it in our archive. We could make a DVD I think.



	G:	No, I’m saying, we got it! We recorded it! That’s why I’m asking. I’m gonna take you out and tell the guy to make sure he makes you a copy of it, all right? So if you need, like, three copies—five, we can get them to you. So you can use them. Because people need to see that. So, anything else?

	M:	I think that’s good for today.



	G:	Yeah, come back in anytime you want to.





[End of interview]



Transcribed by:





Marissa Volk,





January 25, 2019

Audit-edited by:



Final edited by:

Sandra Romero

July 11, 2019