AAHP 807; Canton; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 807 David Canton

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Omar Sanchez on October 9, 2020 2 hours and 1 minute | 71 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Dr. David Canton talks about how he learned about his community’s history, how education can lead to change, and his time and plans as the Director of African American Studies at the University of Florida. Canton learned about Black and African American History because his father insisted that it would be good to round out his education. His father also pushed Canton to attend Morehouse College which gave him a curriculum centered African American, Black and white authors.

Canton believes that a curriculum that gives voice from many perspectives help students become better people for society and allows them to fight for justice. Dr. Canton also talks about his plan to create a department for African American Studies at the University of Florida. Furthermore, he talks about how Black faculty have been treated historically at the University of Florida. At the end of the interview, Canton talks about the importance of treating elders with respect especially when conducting academic research.



Keywords: [African American History Project, Joel Buchanan Project, JBA, African American Studies Department, University of Florida, Ethnic Studies, Community Learning, Education]





































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 807

Interviewee: David Canton Interviewer: Omar Sanchez Date: October 9, 2020



S:  So, hello, my name is Omar Sanchez, I’m with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Today's date is October 9, 2020, we're doing this interview on Zoom. Do you mind introducing yourself?

	C:	My name is Dr. David Canton. I'm Director of African American Studies Program at the University of Florida.

	S:	Cool, cool. So, can you tell me a little bit about where you were born? How you grew up? Like that…

	C:	Okay, great question. So, I was born in the Bronx, June 17, 1968, Bronx, New York. My parents, my dad is from U.S. [United States] Virgin Islands in St.

Thomas, my mother is from the West Indies. They came to New York in I think [19]62 or [19]63, came to the city. My mother's an immigrant, my dad is a citizen born in the Virgin Islands. My dad was a high school dropout, ninth grade, went to the military for four years. My mother finished high school, clerical skills that was big in the [19]60s and the [19]70s—stenography and all that stuff. So, pretty much, I grew up working class. I grew up in the Bronx, we moved to this place called Co-op City, which was the largest subsidized apartment complex in the world. We just turned fifty last year, and I tell people, “This is what affordable housing looks like, Co-op City.” My dad's there today still, fifty years later, three bedroom in the Bronx for twelve hundred dollars a month, utilities included So, the reality is that Co-op, that should be housing, for everyone. That's what made me who I am, right? That he had a job, benefits, affordable housing, decent school, that's the basic promise in America. So, my success was based on that





model, in terms of stable work. He was a state worker, pension, benefits, and as he says, if you don't have a profession or a skill become a city or state worker.

Some like him, many of the African Americans federal government, state, city, that was the blue collar, middle class, blue collar—I say working class. It is a relative difference, working class, I mean we all work for our money, but in terms of what I was exposed to—Unfortunately, my house or my dad, in the military learned about racism, you know, where in, say, St. Thomas you read the Pittsburgh Courier, a famous Black newspaper, you had a racial consciousness growing up in the islands. You remember Emmett Till. You used to read about civil rights stuff in the South. And then he became and military got exposed to it. So, in my household, through him, Marcus Garvey, nation of Islam, Malcolm X, all these African American male figures, racial consciousness. So, that's part that formed this. My mother, on the other hand, was British West Indies. So, for her, you know, Elvis Presley, she liked Elvis Presley, my dad hated him. You know, British, he just hated him. My dad was more open to U.S. African American cultural—I mean, they both like James Brown, but my dad was more open to rap music than my mother was. My mother, rap music was ghetto trash, you know, we’re good working-class Black people. Out there, and you listen to that. When it came out in [19]79, my dad was like, “Ah, they’re young people, who cares?” So, I had a racial immigrant model in my house. So, how does it help me? When I meet students, I know the immigrant model: hard work, Black people are lazy, blah, blah, blah. I know the racial model is racism is racism, help Black people, there's racism, So, I had both So, it helps me when I instruct students, whether





here or Connecticut College, I know the frustration of these students. I know the arguments that their parents make: hard work and no excuses, blah blah blah, speak well. That’s my mother, you know, respectability. While my dad was racial, you know, what are you going to do? Join BSU [Black Student Union], read Black books, read stuff, read the paper. My dad was an organic intellectual, he read New York Times and he’d read the City Sun. He read the White paper, read the Black paper, read both. So, my house New York Times every day, City Sun, after that, news. He listened to talk radio WBAI [World Broadcast Associates, Inc.], a progressive talk radio, that's why I do a podcast called “The Podcast for Your Punk Ass.” Sports talk, politics, that’s all my dad. It was my father who got me into Morehouse. He said, “David, you need to go to Morehouse.” I never heard of it, because in New York, they're going to push the city schools or the state schools, obviously, the assumption is, you can't afford it, then Black schools is trash, is garbage without them, saying that. But my dad came in one day said, “Dave, you're going to Morehouse.” More-what? I’d never heard of it because he's working class. So, I didn’t grow up around African Americans that went to college, see what I mean? So, again—but there were some Blacks in Long Island in the suburbs, who went to HBCUs [Historically Black Colleges and Universities], went to college, and knew Black Greek life. I had no clue! So, he told me Morehouse, he said, “Why? Well, there’s Black male professors.” I never had a Black teacher, only had one in twelve years of school in New York. So, again, those are the same systemic challenges we still have in 2020. I was in honors class and never heard of [W.E.B] Du Bois, never. I was in an honors





class. I went to Morehouse and I never heard half those people. So, I went through that phase of just angry. It doesn't make sense. How can you be an honor student and not know W.E.B Du Bois? That doesn't make sense! However, my school had a pool. Black kids in segregated schools in the South didn't know how to swim is—this is all these type inequities that one sees as you get older.

So, that's my foundation, working class, treat everybody the same, people with African descent. I don’t care if you’re from Jamaica, that’s as my dad, Barbados, all that doesn’t matter! I mean, that's the Garvey model. So, for me, when I came here, I don’t care if you’re Kenyan, Nigerian, Tanzania, Jamaican, I find a common ground. So, for me, it's not this authentic Blackness that have existed because Black is never monolithic, right? And I also understand perspective, So, as I get older, I understood when Nigerians come here, they are in an environment where race doesn't exist. So, how can I be mad when they don’t understand racism? But when you’re here long enough, oh you’re gonna learn some racism. But that's just through maturation and exposure. Last point on that, my parents were the West Indies, So, every Easter we go to Carnival. So, had a passport at eight, nine years old. If most African Americans from the South, they drive South, they don't need a passport, doesn't mean I'm a better person. It is because of my circumstance. If you want to go to Anguilla, you need a passport. I had a passport. So, I'd been on a plane as early as eight, nine years old. You see what I'm saying? So, again, it's all about exposing, So, when kids come here, never left Gainesville, Florida, I can't be mad. That the folks are from here—that’s just when they go to Ghana, it doesn't work that way. First of all, it's expensive.





Said, well, “Who do you know?” For me I was on a plane because I had family in the Caribbean. If you want to get there, you can't walk. So, I had a passport. I was on a plane. And my dad, again, Puerto Rico, St. John, island hop just a different perspective and living in New York, Harlem. He's taking me to the Harlem bookstore. At fourteen I saw Stokely Carmichael give a talk at Columbia University. I didn't want to go, but that's the stuff I was raised in. So, what I tell students here, most of stuff you read about, I met those scholars. I went to the workshops. So, I'm at the ground on this Black Studies stuff. I’ve read, I saw John Henrik Clarke, [inaudible 07:06], name all those names on my shelf, I've met all of them. And went to [inaudible 07:11] to talk at Ohio State. So, I know what I'm talking about in terms of when we are talking about Black Studies and its origins, all that stuff. When that thing started at Temple [University], I was at Temple four years after the program started. [Maulana Ndabezitha] Karenga, met him numerous times. So, what these students are reading, I've met these folks, I have a relationship with them. So, that's my intellectual, social foundation. I go to Morehouse in 1986, I get introduced to Black Southern culture. So, for me soul food didn't exist in my house, because my parents aren’t from the South. So, I didn't know about grits and ham hocks and greens and sweet potato pie, no clue! Until I got to Morehouse. When I got the Morehouse understood class. There were rich Black people in Atlanta, I didn't have any idea. For me, every Black person is working class. We all had apartments. If you owned the home, you were Jamaican, and you rented out two floors to make money. I didn't understand that concept. This is all yours? No clue! Until I went to Atlanta, went





to friend’s cousin’s house they a tennis court, that blew my mind! I just had no words to see young Black people in BMWs, rich, third-generation Morehouse rich. I'm first-generation. So, I had no idea about that until I arrived in Atlanta. Atlanta, you don't have the massive class gaps amongst, like America, most African Americans. Have very Black folks doing real well and folks, that are doing horrible. Governed by middle class neoliberal leaders who, you know, obviously you're going to use market development strategies as a pragmatist. No doubt about it. But you see that. I didn't see that until I arrived in Atlanta in 1986 when it was on the come up with the highways and the airport and all the stuff. So, I was at the ground floor before Atlanta became ATLANTA: the mecca for Black people. Then I went Ohio State for my masters—Well, first, I was a biology major. That was a disaster because first-gen students wanna be a doctor: you help people, money, you can go to some clinic and give some shots for free, donate some time, give out some syringes, right? But there's something called math and science. I tell students if you don't have that discipline of studying, right off the rip, it's not for most people. Now, some students go to post-back when they mature, but the first year is discipline, you’re gonna have chemistry, biology, discipline. There's not much error to give up a weekend for homecoming, and you just can't, you just can't, because you're trying to get the med school. When you're a history person, you know, humanities, social sciences, your first years is Gen-Eds [General Education]. You’re taking classes you like, usually get a B plus within them. If you do decent effort, you’ll get a B plus Then you decide want to go to Grad school then you up the ante, the next two years and get A's, because





now you putting in more work. So, there's a difference when its med school stuff you get them C’s those first two years, you're done, you're not getting in. So, it's about discipline. I didn't have it for that my passions was in social studies and history. But all I knew was you can become a teacher and I said, “You know what, I live in the Bronx.” I don’t know, they don't make a lot of money and it’s a lot of drama. I want to deal with all, I'm just not into all that. Because I'll be the disciplinarian guy, the big Black guy with no—No, I ain’t dealing with that, that’s too much work. Go to Morehouse, I meet Black guys with PhDs, because for us professors are nerds, they’re corny, they’re old. I met this young guy Joseph Linden, rest in peace died of cancer, he’s thirty-seven, just got his PhD. I was like, “What is this? You wrote that?” It was like three hundred pages, that just blew my mind. He said, “Dave, why don’t you go to Ohio State?” He went to Ohio State, one-year program. He said masters, I’m like Masters of the Universe?

What are you talking—? I don’t know what a masters was. I had no clue! None! Go to Columbus, one-year program, and it was in Black Studies. There, it was really about building confidence in your skills, right? If I'm a first gen, I'm not the best writer off the rip. I don't understand arguments and complexity and nuance, but it's Ohio State. We meet other students, African Americans, went to HBCUs, and we share these experiences. So, there's no one there, it's not like competitive, you're dumb, and all this other like in history and all this. It's a community thing. We’re all there to help each other. We're all there to support you know, “Hey, look at my paper.” When you go history, the assumption is you get one sentence wrong, you're dumb, you don't belong here. Not in Black





studies because we all have similar messages. Many of us are first gen, HBCUs, first to go to grad school. So, we had similar anxieties, are we good enough? Can we do this? But it was in Black Studies at Ohio State, they clean up your game.

So, you go to history and political science, you have confidence, all this is confidence. That's all it is. And I'll give you last point of that. So, I go to history, my second year, I'm in this Intro to Historiography class. I'm the only Black guy. And, the year before I took a literary class with a Black Marxist scholar and at that time was all about Afro-Centric: Black, Black, Black, Black, Black, Black, Black! I don’t want to read anything by White people. And he's a Black Marxist, like the Black radical tradition Cedric Robinson, you hear that a lot in the news lately. We look at race and class. I just left Atlanta, it was a massive class problem, you know, massive. There's Blacks who are rich but want to pull the race card but knowing that relatively doing way better than most White people. See, a lot of folks don't want to—because if I say that, it doesn't mean there's no racism, it admits we’re in a racist, capitalist state, right? Socialism is not around the corner, take advantage of opportunities you have, and try to do the best you can. That doesn't mean there's no racism, that just means there are African Americans who took advantage of these systems and did what they had to do.

Right? So, you can do two things at once. Anyway, we read this book by Russian, what’s his name? [Mikhail] Bakhtin! The Dialogic Imagination. I go to history class, the first day of class, “Anybody heard of Bakhtin?” I put my hand up, and you could tell he was shocked because Black folks not supposed to know that White stuff. All the White kids are like this. Then he reluctantly picked





on me. I dropped a few dimes on him, almost fell out of his chair. Almost like he was mad, “Why don't y'all know that stuff? And this Black guy,” you know, in his head probably something else but, “this Black guy knows that.” That’s when the bell rung, “Oh, I get it!” You have to know everything. You just can't read one thing. You see what I mean? So, once I read the Black stuff and the White stuff, it’s checkmate. I read your stuff and my stuff, checkmate. Now I got you checked up, I read [Karl] Marx, I read Robinson [Crusoe], what? I read your best white historian and I read John Hope Franklin, what? Now I got you, like a rap battle, like a battle, and that's what I learned. The bell just rung. Okay, now I get it! Read everything, know all perspectives, that’s what White people did, right? In Western Civ[ilization], we're just going to read White stuff. The Greeks and Romans. Everything else doesn't matter, literally it’s trash. We're going to argue [John] Locke and [Jean-Jacques] Rousseau all day, while there's Black, African philosophers I use in my class that came out before [René] Descartes, you see? But they don’t want you reading that or that's intuition, that's not philosophy, right? Or Asian, it’s intuition, it's just a feeling. Get out of here! It’s reason, it’s science. So, that's how, for me, over the years I get older and Black Studies, I'm the one to read everything and present that critique and know perspective. So, that's basically how I got here, I got to Temple in history, PhD in history and then I got my first job at Georgia Southern, seventeen years of Connecticut College, and now I'm here. So, for me, what I tried to do is replicate and, of course, expand. I mean, obviously, issues of sexual orientation, gender, I got married at twenty-four, wow I’m sexist as hell, damn! I'm still working on that. Sexual





orientation: how do we engage Black queer studies? Why are we even trippin’ over who someone's dating? That shouldn’t even matter! So, how do I engage those nuances, you know, I watch polls, I watch—I’m really trying to figure it out, because at the bottom line, the only way people of color is when we come— that’s the only way we win. It's like this, no other way. It’s historical, if there's ten of us, if I leave you out because of who you're dating, we don't have the power. Because it's in the numbers, but not only is it numbers, it’s humanity. Those are people, that’s the bottom line as human beings! So, what I discovered over time, my wife’s a filmmaker in Philadelphia, a lot of her filmmaker friends were lesbians, right? They watch my kids. I sit down, you know what? They’re like everybody else, bills nobody wants pay, I mean, everybody's trying to make it. All that nonsense went out my head, right? Oh, my girls can’t—all that nonsense because I didn't know, right? So, that's why I try to in my classes, and again, I know it's a process. So, I'm not the one that if you feel a type away change you overnight, have you think about logically in a systematic way. Why do I think this way about X? Does it make sense? Does it add up? I don't believe in what's called buffet style logic, like, you like to pick and choose. You should be consistent in your thinking, right? I mean, and then if you're not, where is that inconsistency—how is that derive, right? So, for example, as you know, if men have a lot of sex, not a problem, if women—where does that come from? Give me the science behind the reason. Who made that up and why? Is it religious?

Theoretical? Give me the data! See, that’s inconsistent thinking that guys get women. That doesn't make any sense. Now we can go back and forth but I want





you to prove—give it to me. Well, you know, I don't know anything, show it to me. That's why I tried doing the class all those, gender that’s all made up! You can see he’s all mad cause I'm just saying, “I want you for yourself to reflect on that and see how that may be problematic, why,” and this and that. So, this is a lot of years just reading, living, I have my own kids about your age and seeing millennials, how they operate or watch the show you Euphoria, HBO, trying to get into minds of young people. And what I've noticed, I attribute it to my son, you know, my daughters are honor students, this, and that. My son, he’s still figuring it out, he'll get it, but he really helps me understand young people. He doesn't like lectures. He doesn't like nostalgia stuff. So, I'm not gonna lie to him. “Back when I was at Morehouse, I studied every day.” “Dad you're lying!” “Yeah you, right, son.” Y'all want honesty! In other words, that nostalgia with millennials are not doing, they said about us an [19]80s with hip hop. I don't believe in generation gaps, that's that nostalgia. The argument that somehow there's some generation that's better. They just did it better. That’s not measuring anything. More Blacks go to college now than ever. So, what, what are you talking about? That's not systemic analysis, right? So, I think for me, young people, I'm open because I don't get into that preaching to them about what they're not doing. How can you listen to Cardi B and go to Black Lives Matter? Because I can! [Laughter] Right? How can you smoke weed and—hey, what you want me to do? I drink alcohol.

So, I'm trying to get to the point with value judging is less and more into what is it about human beings? What is it about how we do society? So, all that impacts my teaching, my research, really trying to get into figuring stuff out. And my last





point, I was reading an article about Nathan Hare. Nathan Hare, Black sociologist, was the first chair of Black Studies at San Francisco State. He talked about at Howard [University], something about I guess a lot of students are having sex, something about the women or something and I'm like, why does that matter to you? Who cares? That’s what young people do. You see that that type of thinking, right? Because the argument was in the [19]60s that Black women are loose and all this other nonsense, right? What does it have to do a systemic racism, who you sleep with? “Because we got to behave a certain way. “You can behave as well as you want cops are still gonna blast you,” there's numerous examples of that. You can be respectable all you want; respectability is not a precursor for equity. The Constitution does not say wear a suit, speak a certain way, do this, then you're right to be a citizen, no! It’s based on humanity and not your cultural preferences. Pink gators, what type of drink you like, what type of movie you like, that is not part of Constitution, that's all made up respectability stuff. Where Black people are proving to White people, “I'm a human being.” The same White person is doing the stuff they say you're not doing, they doing just like that, smoking, late to work, lazy, lying, because those are human attributes.

So, I tried to what I call White worshiping, cut that all up. So, I hear people say we need to unify like this group and that, first of all you're worshiping, nobody's all unified, that's a lie! It’s just that on media they chose not to highlight White poverty, White pathology, they don't highlight that on the news, White crime.

Look at what happened in Michigan. I don't hear, “White-on-White crime.” “What's wrong with their parents?” They have bad culture; you don't hear that.





There are thirteen idiots! With Black people, you get a whole litany, pathology, the sociologists come out, single parenting and all the other stuff, you know, they don't like education. With White people, you never hear that. When we know poverty is the cause of these things, poverty impacts humans the same. I don’t care what color you are, you have no money, no resources, you're just going to do what you have to do. But you see, it's intentional by the media. You’re not going hear “White-on-White crime” the whole week. And if you say it, no one even says it. That's White-on-White crime. What about their parents? Where’s their mother? What about church? They don't value education. Where are all those critiques? Not going to happen, that's a problem. So, in my classes, I try to engage that to get students to understand the systemic right? So, it's not just about there’s a few bad apples, it's a system that's producing this and on a scale of degrees, those thirteen or a hundred, a lot of folks like ninety-nine, ninety-eight to zero. They're not going to act that extreme, but I David Duke and them? Oh, sure. David Duke just not going to do it, but he's on that spectrum. But he's smart enough not to do that, but he's not gonna stop it either. He's not even gonna condemn it. So, that's part of that systems of the degrees of White supremacy that we're trying to engage in a classroom.

	S:	Well, wow I have so many questions now! C:	Go ahead!

	S:	I'm sorry if I look down because I'm writing down like questions I want to ask, but earlier, you were talking about what your dad had you read and everything





versus what you learned in school. Can you like contrast that a little bit more, like expand on that?

	C:	Right, well obviously the K-12 educational system is not to make you a critical thinker, it’s to make you a cog in racial capitalism: individualism, free market, no health care for everybody, you know, praise the holidays, and stand up for anthems and prayers and all sorts of nonsense. Not being a critical thinker, why is it that democracy is full of contradictions? That should be an educated citizen, right? Not being this independent voter, that nonsense, you know what you’re going to vote—stop playing around, these are games, right? Unless we had three legitimate parties, then I can see, okay, but we don't! So, nevertheless, so Malcolm, all those books he recommended was not in the curriculum, which he recognized. You're not gonna read Marcus Garvey in high school, you're not going to read Du Bois in high school, because this is in the [19]80s. So, we've come a long way relative, we have African history classes. In my day in the [19]80s, forget it! It was that textbook and that's it. So, now again, he recommended this stuff, Frantz Fanon I didn't read it, but he's put the names out there. Wretched of the Earth, we go to the Harlem bookshop, pick up some books, but most of my education came from him reading newspapers, but it just formed the foundation in terms of knowing your history, right? History, History, History. Doing the repeated John Henrik Clarke, read these books, and I read them as I got older, but they were in the house, but they were nowhere part of K- through-twelve curriculum and it's still not for most districts, but it's a long way from 1982 to [19]86. But definitely, it was a two-thing curriculum, but Robin Kelly,





UCLA [University of California Los Angeles] professor, the same thing, universities are part of the system, right? You have to educate yourself outside of the university, reading groups, you see I mean? Other words, we would have all these problems if universities were radical cutting edge, think about it, right? We would have poverty, homeless, they'd be on the front line of that. So, you have to, on your time, create your critical reading list. Through the reading and study group is where you can dictate what you want to read Marxism, socialism. Don't wait for the instructors. There are some that might, some will not. You have to do that, and that's basically what I had to do at home, to some degree, but that's what I recommend students, study groups. “Dr. Canton we need to go protest!” I get that, you know what radical? A study group. I was like “What?

Study group? What are you talking about? I want to do something!” Now as I get older, I get it. [Laughter] I get it, a study group, meeting once a week, take out a book and read and have a debate, that's power! Last point of that, Black Panthers, do you know what the most radical program was? The breakfast program, feeding kids breakfast. Why? You get them young, you socialize them, no different in America, right? The militia idiots, right? You get them young, Americans this and Black people and immigrants stealing stuff and gay all robbing stuff by the time they’re twenty-five, they want to a hijack than the governor. That socialization! So, the Black Panthers, love yourself, Black is beautiful. If a cuz says “You ugly!” “Nah I'm beautiful," that’s radical! Support your businesses, take care of your health, that sickle cell. Nah, we want you eating chips all day and being unhealthy, you see? That’s radical, the breakfast program





because you get them at seven, eight, nine, right? But we so focus on the berets, those are just symbols, the berets catch your attention, but what they the radicals giving a kid some Fruit Loops every day and chanting to them “Black is beautiful,” in a society that says “Black is ugly,” that's radical! Now you’re not bleaching your hair, trying to be White, all that nonsense and hating Black history, and you just angry, you loving yourself and White supremacy, they hate when you love you.

They hate that, that gets them angry. You talk about, I see it every day, that’s why I love Candace Owens, they love Black conservatives because they hate people like us, it isn’t straight hate like [Growls] but that's what made the Panthers radical, is the breakfast. Challenging Western supremacy orthodoxy, the same thing they use to socialize the militia, guys. They’ve been socialized, K- through-twelve, church, community, saying this type of nonsense about immigrants and hating everybody, and that's what led them to do what they did. But no one is going to say that. “These are thirteen individuals,” no they’re part of a system that's been unleashed since 2016, that hasn't been punished, no one's going to jail, is not punitive, that's the problem. The educational system, until we change all that, it's not gonna stop. It’s not going to stop, but they’re not going to say it that way. It's in the school system, the churches—can you imagine in Western Michigan those towns, just narrow, provincial, full of anger. But I tell them corporations pay no taxes, they smiling. The stock market, they don’t got a 401(k) [Retirement Savings Plan] but they happy, right? “I love the stock market!” “You got a 401K?” “Nope!” [Laughter] Right? They hate everybody!

Gays, they hate everybody—there's a lot of hate. I'm like, don’t get me started,





but that's the point. So, dual curriculum that we still need in 2020. So, even if you take Black Studies courses, get another reading group because we're not going to cover everything. If you want to learn about Black Queers, whatever start a reading group. There's a lot of books, information, don't stop constantly reading and critiquing. So, I think sometimes as you can get comfortable, right? Black professors, we got it all but we don't know everything. You know, there might be stuff I don't cover in the class, get a reading group. “Dr. Canton what about so and so?” Okay we can have a discussion; I’m open to that. “Oh, Dr. Canton we talked about this, but in Black Queer Studies [Drum Noises].” Okay, let's get it, you know, or feminist. “Well, Dr. Canton, I noticed last few weeks, we talked about this, but there’s this Black feminist out here and [Drum Noise].” “Okay, let's have a discussion,” that's the ideal of the academy.

	S:	So, I guess my next question would be—so you were saying earlier, universities are part of the system, is that why we don't have like Ethnic Studies like Black Studies, African American Studies, Latinx Studies, Asian American Studies, like is that why?

	C:	Well, we have them, but oftentimes they were underfunded. That they were born in struggle react—the problem is they find people of color reactionary, right?

Look at our history. No one wakes up man, we're treating Black people wrong, I’m sorry. It doesn't happen without struggle, Frederick Douglass, right? Power concedes nothing without struggle. So, when you always in reactionary mode, you're based on the whim of the power structure. The economy, there's a depression, your priorities go down and you have no money, it's just reactionary.





So, in the [19]60s, we create Black Studies, right? However, at that time they didn’t have a lot of Blacks have PhDs, White people thought Black Studies was some Black Minister talking about Jesus. They didn't see it as intellectual; it was more to appease those from Black middle class. Preach all their theories and conspiracies, all that garbage, they just didn't know. So, that was a problem—so, the problem is that they have them, but they're not financially supported like let's say philosophy, and history, and European philosophy, Western philosophy, how its roots, right? That Western Civ, the Greeks and Romans, we have to know that so, it's a financial thing. Now the other flip side is when Temple started PhD program in 1989, [Henry Louis] Gates at Harvard says, “Ivy leagues work. Man!

This can work!” [19]90s affirmative action, my generation going to grad school, and now the Ivy Leagues, they take an idea, they have the resources to finance it, and now their programs become elite then White students start going. While people like Temple in North Philly, they get a lot of first-gen Black students like myself goes to that program, full of energy, full of vigor, the skills need to be improved, unlike the Ivy kids who were a little more exposed to intellectual life. But now, African American Studies at Ivy League schools, it's legit, quote unquote, but the argument is, is that their interpretation some would argue, tends to be, some say liberal, neoliberal, or practical, or whatever so, it's attention. So, we have them, because we know hegemony, right? We’re going to open it up, but we don't finance them and fund them, then that becomes the challenge. So, you notice a lot of it is just funding, right? That you need resources for research, teaching lines, right? We also find there’s internal politics in terms of getting





tenure, students reactions. Students sometimes with Black scholars will be totally disrespectful. So, it's one of those type of things. So, I think the George Floyd, 1968, we see 2020 is the same type of thing we see, reactionary, we’ll do this then once we’re on to the next thing. My thing is, why do we also have to respond to Black death? Why—we don’t do it to anybody else, right? When this country want that Wall Street check they cut the check. They don't wait for ten white people to die of poverty. Oh, man, we should run—they cut the check. Why don't we treat Black Studies with the same weight instead of reactionary? Black death, Latino death, then we get stuff, right? When you look at America in other stuff, they don't wait for death, it's proactive, right? They don't wait, they cut checks, they do the research. With African American, Latino, Ethnic Studies, it's reactionary, what do they want now? Cut the check then we'll give it about three years, we'll shift to something else, it historical. So, again, it's how to keep that historical memory alive, right? So, right now, we’re in that phase right now, we're still responding, got the election, when the economy gets better, we’ll shift to something else or there might be another issue, China, Russia, who knows?

Unfortunately, that's been the arc of this history, right? I like folks to be proactive but again, they’re proactive when there’s power: voting protest, pressure. That’s just how power works, right? Without power, without struggle, concedes nothing because as you know—I know I've said this for a long time, there's not been one president that woke up one day and said, “You know what, we're gonna do something.” They don't do that! Cause they’re the President of the United States and they know this country is racist, sexist is at its core. That's the majority





constituency until there's a response—I just can't. Lincoln couldn’t have just end slavey with a snap like Thanos, he couldn't do it, he just can’t. Kennedy can’t just wake up, he had to think of Cuba first. Why? More Whites in this country, that's their concern. Not some Black people getting killed in the South. “Ah that's okay.” COVID, it mostly Black people, older people, they sick anyways, let's be real, that's what it's about. Now if it was all White people dying the same rate, different outcome. There's a book by Derrick Bell, he calls them—what’s that book called? It’s called—when you get older boy, I tell you, I can't remember the name. He was a Black famous civil rights lawyer. He has a theory called interest convergence. So, only time White people in this country move is when we have similar interests, New Deal, Great Depression, you see? Nazi Germany, you see what I'm saying? Interest convergence, post [19]68, post-Floyd, interest convergence. But then we notice now Black Lives Matter support by Whites is what? Decreasing in the last few weeks, right? So, now, okay, we see the protests in Wisconsin, we see Seattle, Portland, now we see less support of that. So, the interest convergence, George Floyd was horrible, egregious, it’s egregious, that's easy. Egregious acts of White supremacy. But systemic, micro aggressions, that's just too much for some people. So, Derrick Bell talks about that interest convergence and he’s right historically. We have to change that in terms of Black Studies, in terms of this country and hopefully people are seeing that now with these next elections, hopefully—I'm looking for 2021. Let's see what that turnout is for that election. See if people learned history and still put the same intensity in midterm elections, because that's the key. Not presidential,





midterms, because Congress makes laws. People don’t know that; they get all fired up, the next year I can't find them. [Laughter] I’m like, “Come on man, let's go, it’s the same voting place let’s just go,” so, we'll see.

	S:	True, true so, why aren't these programs funded, like you say its White supremacy? Is it just that?

	C:	Right, right, I just think in terms—okay that’s why they're not fully funded, right?



It’s like Juan Gilbert says, it’s a capacity problem, right? Admissions in university, the problem is too many good people, not enough spots. Let's be honest, right? There’s a thousand people two thousands literally qualified, somebody's got to get the no. We have a budget, there's a budget, and our university has a priority. The reality is, in this country, we still devalue Black, Latino, people of color, in other words, right? The average American, average, K-through-12 look at your curriculum, we devalue this information, there's still this belief one is not intellectually smart unless you know the White stuff. Look at Jeopardy, right?

First of all, it's trivial knowledge, it doesn’t mean you're smart. It’s like me, I'm a trivia, I'm just into little facts and stuff, but we actually think those guys are geniuses. I give them a Black Jeopardy, they'll fail. [Laughter] Right? So, the assumption is that most Americans, we’re a White country that you have to know your tradition, the Greeks, the Romans, Moby Dick, blah, blah, blah, right? You might read Toni Morrison and just enough that comes in, or Zora Neale Hurston, but at the core, civics in a White country, just not interested. Public universities are funded by the majority White people, right? Resources spent to support these like you do history, White philosophy. They will say, what, these kids not going to





take. Its straight pragmatism. Elite schools can do it because they have the resources, they have the endowments to take class loads of six people, they can afford it. Plus, when you're elite, White kids who take Blacks Studies in elite schools know that it's about skill set. They have the resources to just major in anything because they're good. When you’re in public university, kids are practical. You need a job! That Black stuff will not get you a job, that's the problem. So, it's the capacity, it's how we view this information. It’s still just not viewed as valuable as the other stuff that's just the reality, right? Like Hollywood, racial capitalism is a function of everything in this country. Once you understand that you get it, right? If we put all this money and they get low enrollments, taxpayers are pissed because they've been socialized to devalue this stuff. No one's a bad guy, it's how it happens. Look at your K-through-twelve curriculum, look at TV, look, just look! Look at the books that are referenced. When I watch MSNBC [Microsoft National Broadcasting Company], look at people's bookshelves. All the White people have just White books. Look at them, [Jon] Meacham, all of them, they might have Cast, the book by [Isabel] Wilkerson. The one Black person book, but they have all White books. What does that tell you? And that's the intellectual elite class. These are good people, look at their bookshelf. Not one book by one Black author, that's a problem. I have majority Black books, but I have some White books in there. They have zero! And they get up there. And then when I look at the Black folks, you'll see Eddie Glaude’s thing. Look at his bookshelf; Baldwin, you’ll see more Black books. That's the problem. And we read more White books than they’ve read Black books, it





simple. Now we can talk around it, but that's the reality, right? We are a public institution funded by X. No one’s going to say this, but that's the reality, right? Most majors in African American Studies are African American students, because we still think this is only knowledge for Black people. From a White person from the Panhandle, “Learning about Du Bois will not help my life.” You know I’m talking about racial capitalism. Capitalism exploitation, you’re being exploited, global markets, that's not for me. I want to take econ[omics] and be part of global capitalism and just be a pawn for Amazon. [Laughter] Right?

Rather than seeing that Du Bois spoke to you. A lot of work to do my—this is a lot of work. I mean, obviously I’ll say millennials and until I see the data, I don't get all like amped up to the data, but there's always this belief that millennials are more progressive. It’s two things you could be progressive and still vote Republican, right? You can watch polls; still vote Republican You can smoke weed with a Black person and vote Republican. I’m still not convinced yet because with the finances of feelings. “I got gay friends, I smoked, I got some Black friends.” Republican. [Laughter] I’m eighteen, I'm on Instagram, I'm cool, Republican. [Laughter]! So, until I see that data, I don't get too crazy about the natural assumption of progress based on age and as a lot of people get older, you get conservative. Once you get out of college, you get a job and see them bills, you slowly start shifting, “Man, look at my tax bill!” So, I don't get all nuts. Do I see a relative with you guys in terms of yes, you're a little more open to gay, lesbian, trans[gender]—but when you get older, right? It just changes. So, I don't do that simplistic, well, we'll just wait until y'all become our age, we said that with





my generation. We’re still waiting, I was born in [19]68, fifty-two years later, we're still waiting. Yes, there's more interracial marriage, but that's not a system, that's two individuals. I want to policy, educational equity, Pell Grants, reparations. I don't care who you marry. So, we're still seeing in a simplistic, not a systemic.

So, we see some White Republicans drinking coffee, or White millennials and assume at UF, who are they voting for because that's policy. Who you drink with? Who you sleep with—I really don't care what you smoke? What’s the policy? So, I'm just not that convinced, look at Trump's election, right? Working class White women, who’s to think that their daughter's gonna be any different, right? Just because you're young mom—no you’re not. [Laughter] Republican maybe, I don't know, we hope, or “I vote Republican. No, Mom, you know, gay people aren’t so bad, look at my friend.” So, we have to look at how we're going to measure millennials more—or what does that mean in terms of policy and not personal feelings? That's my question, I don't care about who you seeing, what is it in that voting booth? That's why I'm mad about, voting booth and your actions.

	S:	So, my next question was going to be— so, when I was preparing for this interview, I read up that you're here to make the first African American Studies department in the Southeast, but why has there never been one in the Southeast? And you said there's other programs, and are they more in-depth in other parts of the country?

	C:	Right, so there’s departments—Georgia State has a department. I think they— yeah, they have an African American Department in Georgia State, that’s Atlanta. Now the state of Florida, I haven’t did all my research on it yet. So, why this thing





again? I mean, here, it's just about having the faculty, the capacity, and the commitment. So, again when you do initiative in a university it’s a three-pronged attack, it’s students, faculty, and administration, right? Those are the purse strings. You also need people to talk to the Board of Trustees who are responding to donors who, let's be honest, because we love this because you have money, you're smart. No, you're smart at that one thing that gave you money, but you don’t know what the hell's going on to talk about academics. But since you have money that gives you access you know what you're talking about and you're not humble enough to say, “You know what, let me learn. Black Studies, I'm not into that.” You don’t even know what it’s about, because in their minds, Black Studies is hate, it’s un-American, it’s all this other nonsense, let’s get along—just not informed. So, it’s a conversation but usually it’s responding to protests. So, again it’s not just the president is just gonna wake up, “You know what? Here’s x, here’s y,” because public universities can’t do that. So, I think now is the time. We’re going to have four hires next year, there's a commitment from the administration, but again, I'm always thinking short and long term, right? What if five years from now, everything is back to normal? Or the COVID economy is real? Are we going to have the resources to expand and get more faculty in three to five years if the economy just a mess? So, those are the calculations one estimates, because you just can't assume out of the goodness of the administration, “Dave, you’re right? Here you go.” It doesn't work that way, because we're a public university. It's people in Tallahassee who are like, “I like it but there's other priorities. In fact, you have more than whatever.” So, those are





the conversations that require people to continue to push and not wait for Black death, right? You don't want to say, “Okay, the next Black person that dies then—” I don’t like living like that, it doesn't make sense. Let's be proactive. Look at the country, the demographics of this country changes. More Black and Brown kids being born every day, the majority of public schools. So, we have to have a curriculum that's engaging, that's complicated, that's nuanced, and Black studies provide that for faculty, for students, for staff. I want this to be the space where there's a whole term called “HBCU-ish,” when you come in here it's like you're at Morehouse, you're like at Howard. Does that mean I get A's? No. Does it mean we don't disagree? No, we’re human beings. But it's that sense of [Sigh] and exhale. Here’s a space where [Sigh] take the mask off, I can relax, I can talk about my vacation, I can talk about food I eat, no one's like explaining stuff, you could just be a human being for five minutes of the day instead of this tense pressure of a pressure cooker. The only Black person in STEM [Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics] class, only Black person on both sides all day, that’s a lot of pressure, right? If I make a mistake, they’re going to think I’m like this, stereotype threat, a lot of pressure. In here, relax, take that mask down. Okay, don’t need the big words, relax. I don’t care if you use African American vernacular, go ahead, relax, I’m not judging you. I don't care if you have an uncle in the system, whatever, I don't care. Or who you're dating, whatever, let’s have a conversation. Wow, that makes such a difference I think for someone. You come to a place where you can be you. “Man, in my class I'm just scared to say, I have a cousin doing this, or I'm scared to say I'm third





generation UF and these folks might feel some type of way and jealous.” In here, you can say it and be relaxed. Well, let me come down a few classes because I don't want the White people thinking, whatever, I like them let them think I'm on Pell Grant, right? Or the Pell Grant kid, “I'm so scared, talking about northeast Miami and the struggles we have. I'm not gonna share that in class. I don't want them thinking that”. That's a lot of stress but for White students, they just live.

Unless you like poor White, maybe you might try to mask a little bit, but they just come in and just be talking, whatever, freedom. “My doctor, my uncle, da-da-da, we've been to Kenya, we did this and that.” And they free, so I want this place to give that freedom, IBC [Institute of Black Culture], we could relax. When I was at Ohio State, I spent every day at the Black Cultural Center. When I was a grad student, and I didn’t understand the challenges the students—because I went to Morehouse. I didn’t understand, what are you? Oh, I get it, so for me, the Black Cultural Center was that space where you could relax for ten minutes, twenty minutes out the day. As you know, it’s a lot of pressure out there and it has an impact on the outcomes. I want this space, I know how small it is, whatever, to be this big [Sigh], all that comes off, not saying we’re going to get rid of everything, but you can relax. You can talk about whatever. You can share family stories, I don't care. I'm not judging whether you're rich, broke, in the middle, from Jamaica, Ghana, Nigeria. I don't care. I want this to be their home, you know what I mean? So, that's also one of our goals here, becoming a department, we have the space here, we got the IBC. I want this to be the space you can do it. I see you shaking your head, because you know I'm talking about. It’s tough in the





classroom and it's not the egregious racism, it's the little stuff, a little like Spidey Senses go off like, oh why they say that? You know what I mean, for what? And you go through that for what, two, three hours a day, a week? That's tough! Even sometimes your professor makes mistakes sometimes, like oh my God, where do you go, you can just— and it doesn’t get back to the professor or I don’t come in, “You need grit! You need to upstand racism and just fight it through like I did and don’t say anything!” Come on that’s not helping, you know what I mean, right?

That’s what it is, you kids complain, I don’t want to hear it, back in 19—well it’s not right! How about that? How about we change that? Because its power, it’s too powerful. How about I give you strategies on how to engage that. That's what y’all wanna hear, strategy and not a preaching, downgrade, you making stuff up, all you millennials are soft and all that nonsense. Y’all don't want to hear that and I think that's what keeps these programs because you have back, I believe that everyone don’t think the same but I think also—I don’t believe in that—but if there's different factors that appeals to what you need, that’s what I want, because there will be some people think, and I get that, hard, just [Clap]. I’m more kind of—because I watched my own kids, they're all different. I know what my son needs, I know what my daughter likes, my youngest daughter likes, same with students. Some people like to get tough talk. Some people like the compassionate contextualize talk, just depends. I want a department where I don't care whether you come in here and we have these conversations with my peers.





	S:	Why do you think it's taken fifty years for UF to even start this process? Because I think they've started it before, but it never gotten anywhere.

	C:	Right, well, I'm guessing it’s probably the same thing, right? Started it, put the committees, then something else becomes the priority. Again, it’s like the President, Provost, Dean there’s all these levels that have to be on the same page, then how do you hire African American faculty? Once the word gets out in my profession, it’s a small group. See, again, on one hand, being a Black scholar because of racism, our numbers are small. So, you know most folk, when I say I know someone, I know them. It's not like a White scholar where we met at a conference, no, I know this person. So, it’s a small group, so when the word starts getting out about institution about how Black faculty is struggling, it gets out in the conference circle, it gets out profession circle, it gets out on text. “You know, I don't know about this place.” There’s a history here that’s circulating amongst Black scholars that this, right now, is not ideal location. I’ve heard what's happened to some people who I interviewed here. I've heard about [Ibram X.] Kendi even though that’s another complicated story, but there's a tradition—I can talk to people like Dr. Erickson who was here, she can tell you a story. So, those stuff exists in the air. So, it's hard to recruit. So, again, they probably talked about it, there was no pressure from students, faculty is stressed out trying to get tenure. So, it's all these institutional things but again, students, faculty and administration have to be on the same page and make these things happen and of course, right now, again, unfortunately, Black death. George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, right? Which makes commitment now, right? I wish the world didn’t work





that way but that seems to be the history, right? Reactionary, Black death to get



X. The [19]60s, same thing. When is going to be the day when we know what's right is, right? When people the power wake up you know this doesn't make sense, we're gonna do this and I don't care what the majority says, because they are wrong but see part of this work, it’s not based on justice it’s based on power! It’s not based on justice? You know when stuff is wrong. The water in Flint is dirty, just cut the check, there’s no debate. “I'm gonna lose my job,” no, it shouldn't be a debate. Broadband, why we debating? Get it done, I don't care if people don't support it, rises taxes, get it done. School equity, what are we debating? Well, if I support more money, I lose my job. That's not justice! Defunding the police, we're not saying get rid of police, I want police, I don’t want getting robbed. But we’re saying they get too much money in the budgets that are tight. But most people support that and I'm looking to keep my job, but we know what's right! Some of that money should go to preventive programs. So, it's about power and not justice. That's what SNCC [Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee] learned in 1964 Atlantic City. When they went there, they realized the Democrats in Mississippi would not seat them, they realized it's not a morality thing now. William Barber of the NAACP [National Association for the Advancement of Colored People], North Carolina, he runs Moral Monday. He makes that argument, he uses morality, right? That regardless, you're Republican or Democrat, don't you want clean water? That's a moral issue. You want education? Moral issue. Right? These are moral issues, unfortunately our systems is based on power. So, I get it, brother, I fully understand, I went to his





talks and all that, I get the word play of it, I get it, he’s right. But this thing is based on power; representatives respond to power. If there's ten people, six against clean water I'm going with the six because I want to eat, it’s that simple! We know we should have clean water, but until my majority view morality or not, I don't care. And that's how politicians work, its power, not justice. You see, if universities reflect our system and our country, we are at least more progressive than corporations, but they too have power. The private level: donors, on a public level: state public tax. So, if the majority of Floridians say x, you just can't come in here and it doesn't work that way. What’s just is Black Studies having a graduate program? If I did a poll, not supported by seven people, sorry. Now Black death can be that cruel, we’ll support five people. Once everything is back to normal, we’ll see what happens. I mean that's just history, you know, I think people—"Dr. Canton says these things.” I'm not making this up, there’s a history and I'm just trying to get it as my friend Joe Madison’s grandfather said, “Put it where the goats can get it.” These are systems that are rooted in power and not justice, which means that people have to protest. America was founded on protest, and that's what people have to do to get what they need, that's American history. And that's why we see the militia, right? Because they see the writing on the wall, they’re the American minority, deposition, White guys are going to be a minority. We also know that White male’s mortality rates are going this way, working class White guys are suffering opioids, no jobs, suicide rates are high— that numbers going this way. You working class White dude, no degree? You’re dying at fifty. While Black and Brown people or younger, going this way and see





the writing on the wall, it’s straight numbers, it’s demography. Though rather than seeing a bond unity of clean water, broadband, healthcare, it's a zero-sum game for them, that I took something. What are you talking about, right? We’re taking something, undocumented [people] are taking something—they didn't have in the first place! [Laughter] Right? Because corporate capitalism have taken from them for years, but where do you learn that? Not in K-12, not in their circles, in their circles the free market is the best thing since sliced bread, and they broke. [Laughter] I don't get as mad as I used to because I understand K-12. You went to school K-12, you didn’t have these conversations about class. No, you didn’t you just had conversations about everyone's middle class. What does that mean? Your friend got a Beemer, I'm on the train. How the hell we all middle class? It doesn't make sense, but that's, to my point, intentional. We don't want to train critical thinkers, because critical thinkers make better society which means what? Taxing the wealthy, clean water in Flint, doesn't mean we're not gonna have billionaires, we’re not going to have as many billionaires. I bet you our entire society would be whole lot better if we went from six hundred and eighty billionaires to three hundred. It’d be a whole lot better society for the masses of people who out here struggling. And it's not that they’re lazy, they're working, they don’t make enough money. Think about you never hear politicians say working class, why not? Working poor, always middle class, that's disingenuous. They’re people who work who are poor and in your mind, that's an oxymoron.

How can you work and be poor? Because we used to say poor people ain’t working. No fool, they don't make enough money. They are working and the





contracts in America with labor if you work forty hours a week, that's the minimum to have a decent life. Am I saying we should pay you know a healthcare worker seven thousand dollars? I didn’t say that. All I'm saying is, I agree to work for rent, food, healthcare, decent education, one vacation a year, that was the contract, that’s all! But what we're saying is that because you flip a burger, you do this, you're not entitled to that. Who are you [Laughter], right?

That's a human being. That's why he stressed out, no vacation, no money, mad and angry, but as middle-class people tell them oh, they made it when their dad gave them an inheritance fund. Just lying, got a trust fund, just lying. “I did this by myself,” not admitting you gotta trust fund. That's what gets me angry, the whole dishonesty in conversation. That's like me not admitting my kids don't have a relative privilege to other kids, that's not true. I gotta admit that, but they still have to work. They’re not gonna walk into college, “Oh, I know, dad, my dad.” “Okay, you're in.” No, but I can admit that. But a lot of Whites they don't want to admit their privilege. I’m not gonna look down on you. I understand how systems work. So, those are the conversations in Black Studies which we have, I don't care if you’re Black, White, whatever these are the systemic conversations, we're leaning towards capitalism, racism, sexism, and we’re gonna get our students to really think about these systems and not go into individuals and—I'm really big in history and sociology, you know, that that analysis where everything is explained through history, and through sociology, everything. Why the NBA [National Basketball Association] is eighty percent Black? I can explain that it’s not genetics. Why is swimming eighty, ninety percent white? It’s not genetics. If





you’re not close to a pool, you can’t swim. I can explain why the owners of football are ninety percent White. It’s history, wealth inequality, it’s not genetics. I'm just so against genetic anything. Everything can be history, sociology. I don't believe in no magic genes in anything, I don’t care. I don’t care if you’re the best violinist in the world, somehow people get stuff, they really like stuff. They’re just really good at and they practice for hours. Those that are real good just get it quicker and they’re either supported or someone in their family gets—Lebron’s son, one son is good at ball and the other one’s not that good. Same genes, maybe just not that interested. But we liked genetics, because we're obsessed with biology in this country in Western Civ, we're obsessed with it. Gender, this, what team you on? Who cares? While justice is about humanity. We don't care about your general but that's how obsessed with biology this country, men, women, White, Black? We’re obsessed with its women with muscles, why you have muscles? Because I want them! Obsessed! Men who are emotional, we're obsessed. Why are you crying all the time? Because men are not supposed to, that's nonsense. So, for me, history, sociology, right? Science over nurture stuff to explain anything. So, when I teach my sports class it’s always the White kid who will say, “I think LeBron James has genetics.” Every time, genetics! Yes, he was born, six [foot], nine [inches], but does he put in work? So, there's still a belief that, well, he doesn't work as hard. He works out every day. Then what happens with Asian Americans and this assumption that Asians are good in Math. No but there’s a history, most that come here have degrees of sociology. That's why they five percent, six percent all college graduates, because they





know through stem is how you can make a good lifestyle through the Ivy League, SAT [Scholastic Aptitude Test], numbers crutch. But now they're getting rid of the SAT, because why? The White kids who went to Harvard, their scores are lower, so now let’s get rid of it. We also know most White kids go to boarding schools who will still get into the elite schools but what happens? We get conservatives to blame Black and Latino kids. We’re taking all the spots. We get like one on the SAT, they be lying in they teeth, but most people believe that. “You know why you’re there? These Black kids getting four hundred SAT and a C average.” Like Mindy [Kaling], Mindy, the actor, her brother he checked the Black, I can't—It gets me so mad. Gets on Fox News, look him up, he got into med school. He said he checked the Black box that’s his hustle. Go on YouTube look up. He was on Fox News like five times a year saying that Mindy’s brother, he’s a doctor, he checked the Black box, he got to medical school or something to make a point.

He gets on my nerves. That's a racket and he's on Fox News at least once or twice a year saying, that's his spiel. That's how he makes money or whatever his attention. Look him up, you'll see, it’ll burn your blood. He's a problem. So, that's what's going on that end in terms of the question you just asked. Let’s keep going, I love these questions!

	S:	If you don't mind me asking like, you don't have to answer this, but like what reputation does UF have to Black faculty and the circle you were talking about?

	C:	Well, it's like most places, right? Now, again, we say relative to our peers, well our locational peers, SEC [Southeastern Conference] schools, right? Because we have a different academic, you know, it's probably the same thing, right? That





we’ll all say we need more Black faculty, once we get here you get the Oscars treatment, the red carpet. But then when you get here, it can be challenging, for some isolating. For others, you may have colleagues who may not have voted for you and their mind you’re only here because you're African American, and then you can even feel those in meetings, you can kind of sense you knows if there’s ten, you’re try to get tenure majority vote, there might be six on the block, and you have to whatever you have to do to make sure you don't make them angry in a meeting. Lead a protest with students, all this, that's the extra weight and pressure. So, I just think what happens UF I think there was some survey didn't get high marks and stuff and I also think for African Americans this is a college town. So, it's layered right? Gainesville is not Tallahassee. If you're thirty-four and single and you're Black middle class bougie person, it's not Atlanta. I don’t know if you've been to Atlanta, you've been to Tallahassee, there's a bigger Black middle class. See people don't like to talk about this, let's be honest, right? There’s location, it’s regardless of race, there are locations that people go to socialize. Why? Books, movies, preferences, let’s be honest. So, Gainesville, like most college towns are designed for college students. So, you have a small Black faculty, a smaller Black middle class, right? There's no happy hour spot or there’s only one and you see the same people all the time. When you're in Atlanta, there's multiple Happy Hour spots for middle class Black people, that's why it's the mecca. You go to Nashville; you can go to Charlotte. So, you're dealing with that reality. So, for me, I'm empty-nester, my kids are grown, and I'm in a different place in my life. So, when you recruit younger faculty, it's tough. If





you're thirty-four, thirty-five and single, it's tough for them to stay ten years, because they want to go to Atlanta. They want to be in the city because there's more social stuff. So, this is a college town. Heavily mostly working-class low- income African Americans, even though we're all African America, let’s just be honest, right? In terms of socialization, you’re going to do different stuff. Don't mean anyone is better anybody, but that's the reality. So, those are those are things you're working with. I find UF, they like to get people that went here.

Argument is that we're going to get people who went here that understand those sociological realities. My thing is we’re a number six university. I know good and damn well I can find some people—I never went here—who want to do what I do, they’re at a place in their life where, look, Atlanta is five hours, Miami's five hours it’s called planes and you're so busy anyway, you're not going anywhere during the semester anyway. You’re busy. I can get five people that can do what they do here, the salary is here, see you got resources, it just takes time and knowing the right people. With African Americans there's a network, there’s the job ad and there’s what? The unofficial job ad, “Dave, somebody wants to work at Florida.” Where you can have an honest conversation right? “Dave, they’re talking about so and so.” This is what the job ad says time, this is what the video say, and there's what the grapevine says, and we know the African American history is a very strong grapevine of Black middle—is very tight and strong. I'm confident we can get those folks, but just takes a conversation to understand the past, understand I think—I know we're going to do it. Just takes the right person who knows, and I've been in this game about twenty years I'm right in the middle





where I'm not too old, I got some younger people where I know people have been around a long time so they can, “Dave be honest with me.” Because when you hear Gainesville, it’s a college town. So, I'm coming from Charlotte, Atlanta, urban space, i.e., middle class spaces, that's a tough sell [Laughter]. So, I just be honest about it, right? So, I know coming here, I knew that, but I know for me in a semester I’ll go to Morehouse Homecoming in October, I’ll go to classic—I know about five thing I might do in a semester to get that little fix. So, I would just tell people that, but you want to get resources? You want to build a department, let's get it happening. But if you need that Atlanta thing, you’re not going to make it. If that something this is not for you, if you need that every week Happy Hour, there’s some people that need that, it's not ideal. For me, maybe twenty years ago, now when I go home, I need to relax. [Laughter] I’m done! So, I think that's it, I think I'm confident that—I mean they found me, folks are out there, it just takes a lot of time which we're going to put it in the search. It takes a lot of conversation once the searches go out and people start talking and I have enough, I think, name recognition, where I will get, I'm assume, I'ma get side emails and texts and “Dave, talk about Gainesville, be honest.” So, you can have that be honest talk and I would say the same way. I'm not going to say oh, you know, then you get here, and you're mad and you're leaving. I have to be honest, because if you want to build a department you can’t have turnover. You can’t people leaving in two years, you just got to be consistent. So, that's the thing, but I'm confident, you know, we're going to get some solid scholars, community engaged scholars, you know, just takes a conversation and I think honest





conversation. So, what I try to do is get the information of why people left, I try to contextualize. So, first is like Kendi, he's a policy guy, D.C. I mean, it’s not like he went to Iowa, then I'd be insulted, right? When he left here, he went to Western Michigan, what? He went to D.C. that's—if you’re policy wonk you have to be— that's what they do. If you've been to D.C. all the restaurants, it’s ongoing politics, not Gainesville, that's just the reality. And as is Boston College, I get it. You know, other people I get their story; it could be a partner thing. If you have two partners, if you don't get the other one a job I can't—if we have two jobs, why I would I leave one, that doesn't make sense. You know that. Why would I take a pay cut on the hope? There's no hope; I'm not in the hope business. When you get two check to one check who can afford that economic loss. So, what can you do about, “Well, we might get them a job.” No, if I have to tenure-track jobs, there's no way I'm giving one up on hope. African Americans don't come from a lot of wealth, you just can't. So, it's all these other factors—school systems, when you bring kids in, what's public schools like? “Well, we have like one Black kid in the Honors Program.” Oh, I know what that means, right? Some parents don’t want to deal with that. I dealt with that in Connecticut. You got to fight to get into the auditorium, gotta fight to get recognition. I don’t want to deal with that. I'm in Charlotte, I'm in Nashville, I'm not dealing with that. So, they want to know about educational stuff, so I have to be honest about that right? Most Black—and it's national—Black kids have to work or do not honor ready, even as professors’ kids you got still on top of them. So, I'd be honest, you got to stay on top of them. So, see that’s not in the chronicle, but as historians, we know that’s national,





right? We know that. So I give you information, let you figure it out, and I go from there. You’re worried about your kid’s education, I like it, it's more nurturing. Now again, you gotta fight to do it. If you have the energy—which we did, my wife and I—to fight in the schools or go to the meetings, that’s cool. But that's not what you want to do, then it is going to be tough for your kid to excel because Gainesville has reputation with Black students like me. So, those are conversations, but again, I just be honest about it because if you're not happy, not happy then it’s going to hurt the program. You're not going to come to the meetings, you're not going to be engaged, I can't find you, you gon’ come two days a week, gonna will be missing all the time because you're angry, “Dave you lied to me.” I’m going to get the hell out of here in three years and while I'm here, I'm doing the bare minimum. And to build a department, I need maximum! I’m going to be at events, I’m going to be at IBC, I'll be out in front of Turlington because I'm trying to build majors, and I need people who can put that type of time in it. If you're mad, you're not going to do it [Laughter]. You’re going to be counting down, you’re going to be in that job market, and you can be out of here in two years because I told “Oh, these schools are excellent!” And the first day you get there, they put your kids in remedial class, they didn’t even ask. They think she can't do AP [Advanced Placement], they didn’t even ask, you know you came from AP they’re gonna look at you and still put in [Laughter] or make up some excuse. “Well, here we have some,” you lying [Laughter]. What if I told you— well, Gainesville, is this great urban, gentrification is going on? Yeah, for school kids that's what's going, the gentrification is for college kids. Not you, but if





I'm not honest about it you can say, “Well, it's gentrification, you're thinking urban young professionals”. No, it's the college kids with money. I'm not telling the full story because, “Oh, Dave you said it was gentrification.” Yeah, for young kids not you [Laughter]. Because gentrification is linked to urban young adults, here it’s the college students. So, if I say—I know you interpret justification as young adults who got degrees. Nah, these are nineteen-year-olds getting nice stainless- steel apartments at twenty and you’re a professor, you know, that's the problem. They loud in the club, you trying to get some sleep. You're gonna be mad at me because I tell you the full story [Laughter], you know, or Dave, I say, “Well, Black faculty are happy, everything is great.” “Are you sure?” “Oh, not a problem, please.” Get up in here in our first meeting, then you mad at me again. So, honesty is the best policy. I know for me, coming here, the opportunity to build and leave a legacy. I did some background search. I knew I was getting into as a college town, I was at Statesboro, I was at Ohio State [University], I know what the cause town life is like. My daughter's at [University of] Illinois, she tells me her challenges. Not a problem, because I'm an empty nester so schools, I don’t have to worry about that anymore, and the resources I've never had in my career. This is great, now it’s about building a cohesive team who has that mentality when they get here is key. So, I gotta focus less on, yeah you might’ve went to Harvard and Yale and this and that, all that. But I really got tapped into, are you built for this? As they say out in hip hop, are you built for this, Gainesville, the state of Florida. Students come from a wide range of skill sets. The urban areas are Jacksonville, Orlando. To see a concert, you got to drive two hours. Are you built





for this? They don't come to Gainesville, can you handle that? Where you come from a town where there’s concerts coming through all the time if you want to see an African American concert, I gotta drive. Everyone's not up for that, not that you go every week in the first place but psychologically, right? So, I tell people that. Well Dave, I'll be honest with you, you know, we don't get a lot of R&B [Rhythm and Blues] concerts, you have to go to Jacksonville, Orlando, which is x miles away. Now, the funny thing is you don't go to concert every week, it's just the thought that you can get there in ten minutes. See it’s all psychology, right?

But you're not going. But the thought when I want to go. But you're not going. But in your mind the thought if I want to go, I got to drive an hour and forty-five minutes to Orlando and spend the night, even though you're not going. So, it's all psychology and I've been here so long, right? I lived in New York, never been to the Statue of Liberty, because it's not going anywhere, right? But just the thought of driving to see a concert, even though you don't go to concert but Atlanta it's twenty minutes and they’re every week. Here, it might be once a semester but the thought of driving, it messes with your mind. “Man, I don't know, that's long.” So, for me, what I've just figured, you know, when those things come, we go with spend the night, my wife and I make it happen but I'm fifty-two with no kids.

You're thirty-four with five-year-olds. [Laughter] I was in that life, it's different, I get it. So, that’s why I think for me, recruiting faculty I'm aware of what I call the life cycles and all these things, and I don't judge, I get it. The kids are number one, I get it. You want a break, I get it. So, I'll be honest this might not be ideal. Because I need people who are going to be here for the long haul, not just come





in, write two books and be out of here. Only way they stay if I'm honest and not make stuff up. So, I use all these scenarios like, “Well, listen, I know you're here, but you don't go to concert—just a thought—because it's ten minutes but you know you don't go. What's the difference?” You might go now because it's two hours and you only get it once in a while this might be better, because oftentimes we say no to stuff because it's so much but human nature now that it’s so few, now you might go now. And plus, with COVID it changed my view on, let's get together. “Ah next week, next week.” Now, you might be more proactive with social relations, right? When in the past, “Ah, there will be next week.” When this pandemic showed is, people are social beings and now we're not going to devalue meetings and relationships. “Ah I’ll just do it next week,” now it's like, “I can't wait to do it.” So, I think I met with I might be able to serve that into another recruiting, right? Now, I’ll drive to Orlando because I didn't in two years, I haven't gone anywhere. So, I'm ready now! [Laughter] I can't wait to go to a concert to go to x. So, that's gonna be all part of my way of influencing or getting people to look beyond just a college town which i.e., means White, you know college towns, the bar stream that's why they’re college towns. [Laughter]

	S:	I was gonna ask like, how do you like UF? How has your experience been at UF so far?

	C:	Well, the problem is COVID, it's really like I'm here, but not here, you know. So, knowing that I can't—like for instance, so I walk on campus, so far right now, I haven’t seen many students of color, right, because it’s COVID. But in terms of right now, I can do in terms of my relationships with the deans are great,





colleagues, I'm involved in stuff, there's been no microaggression or bad emails or slights and that, so that's cool. My administrative system is great. My colleagues are great so, all of that. So, from that standpoint, you know, resources are great not a problem, but until we get back to live action. I teach next semester, which is good and I'm doing a HyFlex. So, right now, everything is great because we’re also in a COVID situation. So, but I cannot admit that I've got all types of support. I've had no problems so far, you know, am I looking for problems? No! “That's naïve,” I'm not being naïve, it’s working for me right now, so I can't complain. A year from now, we'll see, but again, I don't look at it rose colored glasses, like any institution. I'm a historian, UF, UA [University of Alabama], Harvard, Princeton, these institutions are developed in a country of America race, class, and gender. So, what makes anyone any unique is just not realistic, it's all relative but for right now, you know, I'm good. We’ll hire a new faculty next year, that's great! But so far, I can't complain one bit, because a lot is because of COVID, there’s nobody around. I mean you look, come to Turlington, I see a squirrel on my window every day before I see people [Laughter]. That's my little friend! I haven't met half the people in person yet, it's all been through Zoom. I haven't met too many majors yet, students. I may have encountered maybe twelve, so it's almost like I can get a restart next fall whenever we get out of this thing, but it's giving me time to get what I need done, lay my foundation and next year, [Clap] ready to hit this thing running.

	S:	Cool, cool, okay there is something you've talked about a lot during the interview is community.





	C:	Yeah.



	S:	Can you talk about the importance of community? Or like what it means to you and building that?

	C:	Right, so right, so, we know—when you’re talking about people, African American Studies the argument was making the university accountable to the community. Why? Universities are funded by tax dollars, in sales tax whether you make two dollars an hour, you pay sales tax, right? So, universities at one time, like you look at the [19]60s were designed to support the military industrial complex. Research is being paid for you to create bombs and stuff that didn't help poverty. So, Black Studies makes universities accountable to the people that pay these taxes, that was the idea. History wasn’t thinking like that because it was viewed as something for the elites. History, philosophy, their money comes from tax dollars of working people, but in their mind, right? You don't owe them anything. Black Studies is like, wait a minute, you're in Black neighborhoods, right? There's a brain drain, whether it’s our athletes, right? You get all this money, and you're not addressing these issues that you caused in the first place through, what? Expansion of buildings. Neglecting Black students’ admissions for all those years and collecting all this money with the IRS didn't say one thing about losing your nonprofit status. So, now it's time to pay up. So, I think the university community is like two things, that my job is to take information we get an academy and take the community. Share the information, I don't have all the answers, but we come to a synthesis. Who knows what local people need but local people—shout out to Ella Baker—but the same time as information coming





up here that you don't know that we can work together. So, oftentimes what we find in our community stuff is a lot of what my friend called bad history. You come, “Hey Dr. Canton you saw this video by so and so!” He's not a historian [Laughter], right? “Yeah, Dr. Canton, heard about this conspiracy theories about syphilis.” No, they had syphilis. They were denied treatment, so you get that. So, what I'm trying to do hopefully over time is when you go these community groups, you know, their historian buffs. A lot of it is not academics so, I'm trying to without being, you know, it's a relationship. You know, that hopefully I try to root out the bad history and get people to skills to, you know, be a little more conscious about what they say what they mean about history, but the same time, I know the community that is what gets me here the protest, the sacrifice, so, it's a complimentary relationship. Without their protest, you're not here because the university is not going to wake up and say, “Oh, my bad, we need Black Studies I'm sorry.” No, when they're outside them signs folks who didn't finish high school all up and down the streets, opens doors for me. I totally get it. Now I hope that the reciprocity is, as a historian when I come to an event and I say, Tuskegee syphilis, that’s not right. When I root out the bad history, I'm not viewed as some outside Uncle Tom, I'm trying to help people understand you don't need to make stuff up. There's enough history in itself that Black people have experienced, right? You don't need those extra stories of conspiracy to talk about African Americans, you don't need that, you don’t need all that. The facts speak for themselves you don't need to go into conspiracy mode. Lynching? Evidence, Discriminations? Evidence. You don't need to hype that up. And that's what I try





to separate when I look at these like a videos from YouTube, that person trying to make money. That's what they do, they make money off of folks who don't know. I'm trying to help you be more critical consumer of knowledge, even included me, you could check me that's fine, but those folks they’re there to make money. Run around with them YouTube tapes and hidden colors and all these conspiracy, “Look at the dollar bill,” and all that stuff. That's how they eat. What I'm trying to tell you is, I'm making you a critical consumer, that's all. That’s what I call barbershop history. But again, it's a conversation and that's what I think. Again, we lost our dear colleague Patricia Hillard-Nunn, who really had a lot of connections. So, I'm trying to build, you know, now again, some people, I would say she's definitely—and it’s relative, right? Whose commitment to community is relative, right? Hers is very deep. Some is more mid-range, and some are relative. So, for me, I think hers is a very deep in community stuff. Organizing events and you can tell by how people responded because the community, people, respond to authentic folks you can just tell. You can tell the one who comes and they kind of respond, but your commitment is relative, you might do a talk, Black History Month, you have five or six talks, but she did the actual work stuff. There's levels to it. I'll be honest, there’s levels. My wife is more than I am, she's more engaged in community than I am. Relative she's more engaged, more ready to, “You know we need— “, I’m more practical “—we need go knock on doors, let's get a thousand.” I’m like that don’t—But yeah, yeah, yeah, which is different, like that, right? So, for her, there’s an incumbent, you should run but statisticians will tell you out of a hundred, eighty won’t vote. Well let's knock on





doors anyway. Me, I'm more [Uncommittable Noise] but, it's fine. So, I look at it that way. So, there’s community, folks, my wife is more engaged than I am. I think for me, once I figure this whole thing out, but also have commitment to the director stuff here. So, my commitment is going to be relatively different than someone else. So, again, like I tell students, in the Civil Rights Movement, everybody has a role. Everyone can't do everything, that's a lot. But what can you do? And do it as best you can. So, for me, you know, we might have a scholar in here who's is engaged, this scholarship, they go out to all the functions, they get the phone call, they be that person. Me, I might be more, you know, I talk to the person who's second in command, who, whatever, then you have some people, I don’t even know who that person is, but they're committed for students on campus, it's okay but you have a role. Because some folks are uncomfortable in the communities, some folks aren’t. For some folks, they don't operate as smoothly in communities for whatever reason. Because in their mind they might think, “They don't think I'm this or that.” Or for other people they love community stuff, they are very comfortable with folks from the quote unquote “hood,” they cut, they just flow through it, no problem. Their nerves don’t get upset with inoculate English, they don't feel type away when people, you know, cut off G's and verbs, they’re like cool with it. While some people it really irks their skin. They just can't, that's it. So, for me, community is important, but I think knowing your role in that. Now, I'm saying is levels of commit all over the place, but I think what works best for you. If you're a speaker for Black History Month and King and all that. That's what works for you? Fine. If you really want to





engage and all your service be community? I support that! I don't like, [inaudible 1:22:36] I want to help the people. I support. Now when I say help, those who are really engaged. They go to meetings, they organize on Saturday, I take that for service. But the faculty I'm just engaged with student’s service, all my time because I know these students need some help, I'm good with that. So, it's really about what's your strength for me that's how I do leadership. Put you in the best place to succeed. Why would I put you in somewhere you’re gonna fail? And then to say that hoping the areas that you're not strong over time you improve those areas. So, you're not so one-sided because you never know when I need you to do something else. So, you always want to prepare, but at minimum, you know, you're strong at this let's work on the other two over time because over time you might have a change in attitude. You might want to shift our community, “I’m going to focus on more scholarship five years in the line,” because whatever. So, that's how I lead, I lead by your strength, hoping the same time you working on—you’re improving the areas of weakness. So, you're not just what I call a one trick pony like those Republicans in Connecticut now who are running just on Democrats hate police. That's their one trick pony that's not that's not nuanced, you just run on one issue. I don’t like that. I'm just good at this. We all do it, but you have to be flexible in the world, you know, that that's a skill. I'm just going to do x, I'm not gonna do anything else. The world doesn't work that way. [Laughter] We wish it would, but it doesn't, you gotta be good at multiple things especially when we look at Black Studies Department, you just can't do one thing, because we don't have the history like history and English. They can do one thing, I'm just





gonna write books, they can do that. We have a dual mission, I gotta write books and engage the community who got me here in the first place. History got a because its history, there’s no struggle. They planted the right there. Philosophy didn’t have to struggle. They just pop it right in. We have to struggle. We have to constantly prove that this is legit even though it’s 2020, because it's still a devaluation of Black knowledge, unless it's shared by the elite scholars from Harvard and Yale. When [Henry Louis] Gates says it, then we think it's valuable, when Kendi says it but there's tons of scholars doing this great work. But only those few get access to New York Times, Wall Street, MSNBC. And for my White Liberal colleagues, they speak for all Black people and when you critique them, they're mad at you. “You don't agree with Kendi!” No! Some of it I don't agree with, and they get mad at me, “You just hate him because he's rich.” No, it's because I'm saying they’re saying something that most White people like, which means something. [Laughter] Let’s be honest if they're clapping must be something. Oh, I get it. We're all racist. Okay, I feel better [Laughter], right? No, it’s structures. So, now if I know everyone feels that Black people lazy, why I’m mad? But if it came on the angle of structured complicity, then no matter how much Black people feel they're lazy end of the day, if you don't do something, it doesn't matter. I don’t that book because it's making me do something. The way it’s posed now, it's making us all do therapy. [Laughter] Oh, all of us are not racist. That’s not dealing with structures, my friend but that's why I do what he does. That’s not knocking this hustle, but I get it. When they win those Pulitzers like Nikole Hannah Jones, most White people honor those awards. So, again, it





goes back to the demography and numbers and access and money. We just got to be honest about it, that’s all. So, I'm not knocking what they do, but you have to think about it. I know a ton of scholars out here do some great work, but is only read amongst academic egg heads because it’s truth telling and that’ll make the same person love Kendi be angry because they will be called out as you're part of the problem, you’re benefiting. “Oh, I give to the NAACP,” I get that but it's a system. [Laughter] But you don't want to hear that, you want to hear how you're doing such great stuff and everyone's complicit in the sub—I’m complicit in not talking out more against transgender violence or whatever. But who wants to hear that, you want to feel good about yourself and Kendi’s book makes people feel good about themselves. We're all racist, thank you. Rather than power, no matter how racist Black people think, we don't own the major corporations. You don’t like that book cause, “Oh man that means I got to do something, oh no.” [Laughter] That’s what it says you have to do something. “Me? Yeah oh no.” But if we're all racist [Laughter] and that's why it's doing relatively well, let's just be honest, you know. I get it, it's fine, but we should have the same space to say what I'm saying and get the same coverage on that New York Times and let people decide and not just be anointed. Remember Ta-Nahisi Coates, my man a few years ago, where is he now? See how it works? Under Obama he blew up, now where is he? He wrote some novel what happened? Then he became the expert on reparations, Black folks been talking about reparations for years, but for many White people it wasn’t until Coates. That's what gets me angry. At least shout them out. That's like intellectual appropriation, I call it. You see now





where’s Coates? Under Obama, he killed it. Under Trump, I don’t see him now. So, Kendi’s hot now, two years from now, who's next? We want Black Studies to be a consistent sounding board of deep—of intellectuals understanding history in the where it's been and where is it going and not this type of who's the hot person blah blah and then jump on to somebody else. But what about the people that have done this before that don't get the credit? That just gets me upset about this stuff. And I get the system, and that Henry Louis Gates is not a historian, he's a literary guy, but they put historian in the New York Times when he writes the op-ed, he gets instant access to New York Times. I know tons of people do tons of work, no access. So, he becomes the spokesperson for Black people, but for White people, they get multiple perspective. There’s Meacham I see him on the talk shows. They get multiple perspectives on White life. Well, us we get like nine [Laughter], right? And the problem is that what I call the White literati you know think they really speak for all forty million Black people. And I go, that's kind of insulting. [Laughter] He speaks for himself, but not for everybody, but if you want to get in the game is almost like the coffee break, “Should I go in today?” Well, I think it's great, you know, because the amount of attention you’re going to get, because there's so much passion in that book that's hot, the amount of attention you'll get from the coffee dinner, “What you don't agree with Kendi?

Well, I think—.” It’s just too much because they gonna come but have you read this, this, this. “Oh, I never heard of them.” That's my point [Laughter], right? You mean never heard of so and so? Never heard of them. That’s my point. So, it becomes like something that middle-class people will do as some sort of status





type of thing, that you're reading the hot Black book that in your circles shows you’re real liberal and stuff. That we go, “Did you read Kendi? Oh yeah!” Everybody reads it, that I get it. So again, people will say, but that's just—and he's not the first, it’s just how these systems are structured. Same for Women's Studies, same for Latinx Studies, it’s that one or two—what was that book that came out a few years ago, the memoir, the Latin one that people just trashed. I forgot it was a memoir by…I think she was even Latinx, I forgot the name of the book but—uh huh you got it.

	S:	Yeah, I have it



	C:	A lot of heat, wasn’t it?



	S:	Yeah, I remember, I remember, I have that book. I know what book you're talking about.

	C:	See what I'm saying, right? That was the problem, something about wasn't authentic or some sort of—the person caught a lot of heat for that. So, that became the one so I'm guessing within three months when it's at Costco and BJ’s that becomes the one Latinx that everybody reads, then when you critique it, there's a problem with you. “What you mean you don't agree with that?” Well, if you read— “Nah I think that—.” That’s how we still got so much ways to go into how we look at Black knowledge, Latinx knowledge, it’s still not valued the same, that we can shrink stuff down to one person that doesn't make sense. That's embarrassing! But when we look at the Greeks and the Romans, they'll give you a whole plethora of Greek philosophers, you don't just strike it down the [Jean- Jacques] Rousseau in the Enlightenment. “We’ll just read Rousseau—. “ You





gotta read Montesquieu, Hobbes, Leviathan, you know the list of books, all of them. You don't just say one, you got to read all the theories. But for Black and Latinx, you got one person. Just read Gates, that’s it. Yeah, that's problematic. So, we got a ways to go in this and so, that's what I'm trying to push in terms of just asking simple questions. Why is it for Western Civ, no one says just read John Locke? For African Americans just read Kendi, just read Coates, just read the hot person of the month. Why do we do that? Great question, I’m still trying to figure that out, but that's one of the things I've tried to change in here as well.

	S:	So, I only have two more questions. C:	Go ahead!

	S:	So, what advice would you give to minoritized students coming into college and like trying to get their PhDs, get their undergrad, or graduate degree?

	C:	This is a great question. So, what I tell students, I say, you know what the PhD, saved me from me. All right, going to grad school, asking questions. Gender, class, sexual orientation, because the university is a space where you have to engage those populations, become self-reflective, and realize, man the world the way its setup is socialized to make you anti-human. If you're not, whether it's religion, your interpretation of Christianity—Like Frederick Douglass said, is Christianity of this land or is Christianity of Christ? Because Christianity of this land homophobic, it’s racist, it’s sexist, but until I got to university you never questioned that. Sexual orientation, until I got to the university, my wife's, I know a lot of lesbian filmmakers, I didn’t question that stuff. Gender norms, when I first got married oh, you know, my son can stay out till midnight, the girls got to be in





at nine o'clock, that’ sexist! No clue! So, getting this degree saved me from me, whether it's masculinity, whether it's sex, these other constructs gave me the information to be self-reflective and be open to challenge society and all this stuff. That's the beauty of being a critical thinker, because not everyone needs to get a PhD. No, but I think with grad school, you start asking these questions. So, for now, I have a better—And you always know you don't know everything always learning. I'm humbled. I don't know everything, but I'm constantly rethinking stuff. But of course, so when students get to campus, you're thinking a job, I get it but that’s a problem. See, not thinking or being reflective, so in other words, you're going to embrace all the norms on TVs, you've heard in K-12, get to the job and be mad that your cubicle is next to someone who is Muslim, you all in your feelings. For the next guys it’s atheist, you'll be on your feelings. Or next one is married to a trans, you will be all the feelings, or someone's bisexual, all your feelings. Because you didn't take time in undergrad to engage in humanities and realize these are human beings, and from Marxist perspective, you’re all exploited labor in the first place. You all share one common, you gotta stop tripping, but that's the problem. I get it, you want a job, but I'm saying use these four years to take classes and become a better human. I know works with me like I said saved me for me because the more I learned how I was socialized, you know, heteronormative male, six foot seven. Just follow the hook line and sinker stuff, doesn't mean I've gotten beat up—never been violent person, but you still have to side eye. I'll ask the question why rather than the human beings. So, it's spectrums on it, right? Doesn't mean that I go out and in hate women but be,





“Why they upset all the time? I don’t beat women!. What do you mean I'm sexist?” That doesn't make sense. It's a system. Or “I made it, why don't put people make it?” See I don’t say those silly things because education. I came from Co-op City, got a PhD, what's wrong with these people? And he’s allowed and internalized to say that stuff, because they weren't educated, they just focused on that job and they didn’t focus on humanities, “That’s a waste of time, I need my accounting degree. No one needs that!” Then you’re in the accounting office then you’re scared everybody is sexist. And it’s on degrees, it’s relative. It's not the egregious, it's like, well, did you didn't take time to read and engage it.

Now you might learn it through experience. Find out your son is gay, your daughter's this, that might open you up, but use this time. It’s a whole different feeling you just understand human beings, man, you’re not all stressed out.

Undocumenteds, I don't get if people speak Spanish in the elevator. What do I care? I’m not that important, they’re not trying to get me I didn’t do anything, that’s fear. When they speak Spanish, you’re all nervous, what you’ve done something wrong? Then why are you nervous? No one's gonna come get you. Most acts of violence isn't random, and don't fall for the Trump when they get the one, that's aberrations. So, for me, the PhD saved me from me, made me a better human being because it exposed me to individuals, populations I would’ve never been exposed to—not never, but engaged with, that's different. You can be exposed, but then there's engaging, when you have colleagues have a male or female partners dating—human beings. Have the same damn problems: daycare, scheduling, people get on my nerve. That's the university, right? Going





to daycare see mommy mommies and daddy daddies, you see stay at home dads. I knew a stay-at-home dad in Connecticut, “Man, he ain’t no man you're—” I didn’t say stuff like that. Hey brother when’s the next kindergarten meeting?

Yeah, I mean, I’m not tripping. If I didn’t have this PhD, I would’ve been talking about him. “What do you mean you’re not working?” See, that’s the problem or watching the show Pose, I don't watch that thirty years ago. Turn that off, like it's going to make me, you know, trans, all that nonsense. Education is a beautiful thing, we have to somehow find a way to get students to—that’s why I'll try to sell that to really think about you can do two things at once, and you'll just make you a better person not all uptight, all the time. Hating everybody just full of—like when I see Donald Trump it’s just full of anger and hating everybody. How do you have so much room in your heart for hate? I sound like Dr. King but I get it. When I was younger, I didn’t get but I get it. That’s a lot of enemies to hate, everybody. I can't, it doesn't make sense because for me, I see humanity. We’re struggling it’s tough. It’s existential out here, bills, this, that. That's what I see so, that’s why I want students to come in here, take advantage of that, take advantage of IBC. Take advantage of those spaces, because you need them and guess what?

When you become a professional, that’s what I tell them. It’s gonna be the same thing, you go to a business meeting, guess what you’re going to do? Run to the Black people. You go to dinner, you say hi to so and so, you're gonna do the same thing when you get to the professional world, you know what these systems still exist on professional level. Go to a conference, when you get there, you'll look for the Latino, people of color crowd, “Hey,” and run right over there





with the wine, “Hey man, how you doing?” So, why not? It's not racist, it’s how these systems are set up. But it's what empowers you, it’s what make you feel normal because you’re like is it only me, but did he say that? “Oh, yeah.” “What?” “Yeah, don't worry about I'll help you through, I’ll mentor you.” But I think for some of our students, and I was told at home, well you got to play—you got to do this. I'm like, Listen, I'm telling you, this doesn't stop when you leave college. In fact, it's more sinister when you’re a professional because you assume well, they graduated, they liberal, please. It’s cutthroat out in the streets I'm telling you and it'll be a nice cut, “Hey Omar [Cutting Noise]” [Laughter]. But we give you the tools to anticipate or how to engage in Black Studies, in Latino, Latinx Studies, the tools. So, education is not just for education sake, making society better in engaging a system that's racist and sexist. How do you engage that? And also, how do you learn how to—which I'm learning—how to you know case by case, right? You can't say all people is all that, it’s how you learn to engage case by case. So, I'm learning to get to the point where you can case by case, I call it right? Because look at history this country John Brown was a white dude. John Brown's on my top ten lists. He wanted to end slavery and not just by talking, he's Whiter than snow. Another White guy took in fugitive slaves, he ended up dying in prison. Virginia Durr, now there's a long list of White people to put more work than a lot of Black people. So, I tried to explain that in history, because we think racism genetic and there’s Black people Clarence Thomas, Candace Owens, they’re horrible for Black people. It’s all up here all right, you know it is right? It's what up here, there are Black people who hurt Black people because





their policy decisions. They are White people who in this history have done more for Black people than Black people, who even claim they’re woke. Let's give them credit, that shows that racism is not genetic. It also shows us just because you're Black, doesn't mean you’re woke or as woke as you think you are just talking.

What are you doing? [Laughter] So I try to get students when they say those big overgeneralizations, “Well, how do you explain John Brown? “Oh, I thought he was Black.” That's my point. [Laughter] In fact, he's on Showtime, I gotta rent it. Showtime did a thing on John Brown, but I haven't heard reviews but the downside thing is they paint him as crazy John Brown and I'm like, that's why it got published. Because that was all the critique that John Brown was crazy. Now, if he was a fugitive slave catcher, he wouldn’t have been posted as crazy, he'd have been a hero. That's my point, so Showtime made it based on an ignorant view that John Brown was literally was crazy, literally EDP [Emotionally Disturbed Person], rather than he fought to end slavery against the crazy racist slave system as a rational human being who said, when they were about to kill him, “If I had fought on the side of the power, I would have been a hero.” That's not a crazy statement. If he was a fugitive slave catcher, there’d be a John Brown holiday, but to get the show moved on Showtime, let's paint him as crazy. See Hollywood is slick, because they want to make money, again, in a woke world.

Harriet, you can make a film, but still slanted towards Hollywood. That’s why I try to teach kids these skills. So, yes, we have John Brown, but rooted in a misperception by a book written by William Styron in 1968 that painted Nat Turner as crazy and these dudes are crazy rather than fighting for freedom. But





Robert E. Lee ain’t crazy? Come on now. Stonewall Jackson ain’t crazy? Those militia dudes ain’t crazy? Now they're going to use that to justify, but that's the point I'm making. When I watched the John Brown thing, I saw that okay, I get it he’s a crazy, dude. He’s always screaming and crazy rather than, I'm trying to end some slavery, you get my way, you gonna catch a couple in your back. [Laughter] I get it so, that's why I try to teach to watch historical films, creative licensing, and what I call a narrative. So, a narrative is most people see him as crazy and we want to make money, right? If we do it unless it's a documentary, but we put more money to this, we want to sell it, we have to shift it that way intentionally. That was a documentary, you can be more academic, but who watches a documentary? Twenty people? But we making a show on Showtime. We want more people, more White people, who are the majority, to watch it. He's just a crazy White man, rather than empowering. You know what I don't agree with that part, but maybe I can empower myself to do something about the system or see the price you pay, not meaning in death, but social marginalization by getting engaged in woke work. Many White people pay a price for that. Is it worth it? That's the point. But we can paint him as crazy, so now, I'm not crazy, I'm not gonna do that. So, I won't do anything! Or I’m happy what I do is literally nothing but talk. I'm not going to go to my uncle and say, “Yo, that stuff you’re saying doesn't make sense.” I'm not going to challenge grandpa at Thanksgiving, “Yo, that's garbage.” Because it's too much pressure [Laughter]. I'm not going to my church, “Why don't we talk about racism and sexism in the church Pastor John? I'm tired of salvation, let's get heaven on earth for Black and Brown





people.” Suddenly, I gotta get out of here [Laughter], hey, you know what, take your front seat, go to the back, let's get out. That's why systems function, I get it. The social tradeoff is it's just a lot of drama that people don't want to deal with.

You know life is harder why am I'm adding more bricks to my back? You want to go to church, “Hey Dave, everything is great! Uh oh, there goes Dave!” Who wants that? It's like this I got a new point, right? Then let’s get your last question. If there's a lynching, there's the five people that do the lynching, the rope, right? There's more that watch and many who are silent. So, the many, “I wasn't there. I didn't put the rope. I didn’t even go.” But you didn't say anything, that's the majority, right? Few do the lynching, the rope, all that stuff. More watch, they might shoot into the body. Many stayed home; they were silent. That's the majority, but in their mind, I at least didn't do the rope, I didn't go watching in my Sunday's best, but I didn't do anything about it, that’s life. Where’s any instance of racism, homophobia, the zero is the violent, that's the egregious part that's zero, that's the few. The next group is the more, than the many are silent, like those militia idiots. They’re there then you got the silent majority who kind of like…but I'm not crazy because I won't go to jail, I got kids and I don't want to go out there with Black guys I might get punched in the face if I get to the wrong place. So, I think that's how you look at systems, which I explain to students. So, there's many who are silent, but we, you know, I wasn't there, but you didn't say anything. At least I didn't go and that's everybody, right? For men and sexism, “Well I don't hit women.” Well, thank you! Have you said anything to other guys?





“Nah,” and that’s how function and you get that; you’re a smart guy. What’s your next question?

	S:	It’s actually my last question, it just do you have anything else you’d like to say in the interview I didn’t touch on that you…

	C:	No, I pretty much said it all, I think I'm looking forward to—now this is for your honor’s thesis?

	S:	Yeah.



	C:	Yeah, Dr. Ortiz you’re—who’s your— S:	Advisor?

	C:	Yeah



	S:	It’s Dr. Ortiz



	C:	Okay yeah that’s it, pretty much I just tried to be a straight shooter, my friend.



You know, again, I like using my systems analysis and stuff. So, you know I call no one out if I don’t have to, but how do we get students to understand systems, right? How do we move away from racism as prejudice and these simplistic binary and really get into—then again whether you’re fifty-two year, you’re eighteen, you’re nineteen but hopefully through these classes there's a consistent message of systems and systems and inequities and complicity, and let’s really engage that and not just the individual model that we love in this country so much, the one poor kid that makes it. We love that story but eight of them didn’t make it, “They’re just lazy!” Oh, here we go with that, you know we love that. I’m so sick, that stuff drives me crazy or our worship of billionaires and

P. Diddy—billionaires not going to save us, they’re not. Oprah does great work,





but you can't wait for the billionaires. You got to get out here and work or my Black capitalist friend, “We just need businesses.” Bruh, capitalism doesn't end capitalism! Capitalists love capitalists, right? That's their best friend, Diddy don't scare nobody, they love Jay-Z, because billionaires don’t wanna lose their money. He can come to the table. In fact, I'm glad he's a billion-enterprise saying, what they hate is folks like us [Laughter]. So, that's what I want students to engage in, those the ideas you here. I'm doing a thing on Achebe and Baldwin and I heard Hosea Williams, who was a civil rights activist, this is post [19]79, “Well because of desegregation we need more Black businesses,” the whole Black economic capitalism thing, but it's more complicated than that. Black capitalism will not save Black—now, there's no socialism around the corner. I'm not saying don’t start a Black business, but don't sell it as a panacea, that's all I'm saying. Don't sell it as, everyone needs to open a business, no most people gonna work for people! But the point is, is that that's just one avenue in the struggle. You open up a barbershop, you open up a business, but every person is not going to own a business, and Black wealth is not going to change systemic inequality. There’s more wealth in Black communities now than ever and we’re still racist and George Floyd still died. That’s the point. Systemic analysis, using history, and not all this stuff be floating just drives me crazy, you know, but that's what we're here for. And how do we engage students in that? So, I'm hoping being here, having events, what you're doing, and this comes through these conversations, most of them in the classroom. I find when I have students in IBC [Institute of Black Culture], we go on road trips, they get to know me more, they





open up more, I think that's where the learning comes in, to be honest with you. More so, than the stuffy classroom. They might be White students, they feel some type of way, but we out of that road, we in the D.C. museum or we’re here. We just, “Dr. Canton you know blah blah,” we just open up. That’s where the real learning starts, that’s what I think. Those relationships, more so than the classroom, which is staged and you're worried about what people think. No one's gonna raise the hand, “Oh yeah, my uncle was an addict and this and this and he ran numbers,” no one’s going to say that [Laughter] because you think I’m gonna judge you, I don’t care. But when we go on these road trips you know me, “Yeah Dr. Canton that’s right we read this thing in class, I think I had a grandmother, she was a numbers runner in Miami.” Okay! Or, “I had an uncle he's on the wrong side of law and this and that,” okay I don’t care. Or, “I had a grandpa he was so rich, White people were scared him.” Okay! “But I don't like saying that because I don't want people to think I got money and this and that.” But we can have those conversations, that's what I look forward to or, “I like to ski and scuba dive.” Oh well, one of our professors, Dr. Stevenson, is an official scuba diver. “Well, people will think Black people can swim. I don't want to get into all that.” That's why I want this to be that space, because just you saying that just opens— you’re free because you're holding so much in because you’re thinking about all this other stuff that really hampers your striving here. While for White kids, they just live, they do whatever the hell they want to do. Man, that’s a good freedom, that’s some freedom. That's some good stuff, you can just do the hell you want to do. You want to do this, you want to do that well for African Americans, for us





you’re always thinking and that’s stressful, as you know. You just want to go to class and just live. Put your hand up and just say it. While you’re like, “Did I say what I said?” That’s not living. Like Marvin Gaye’s song, this ain’t living. So, hopefully through what I'm trying to do here, Dr. Ortiz is on board, administration’s on board, we can keep moving and hopefully, once you graduate, I would always say check in, emails to your dean of the college or whatever, “How’s everything with Latino—" whatever it is. How's the center going? Always send email, send a few pennies, and they'll just respond. Don't leave in bitterness, because people in power like that, when you're not engaged, apathetic. On the one hand, they say it, but on the other hand they happy [Laughter], right? We want everybody to vote in America, no, you don't but they'll tell you that, but they don't want everyone voting because Republicans wouldn’t have a shot, you know that as well as I do. They know it, that's why they hire these Russians to tell Black people don't vote and these idiots are out here on radio programs, “I saw on YouTube a Joe Biden video and he said so and so. I don’t know!” Oh Lord, the Russians got him. “I saw Kamala Harris, she locked up—.” Everyone locked up Black people in the [19]90s! Everybody locked Black people up in the [19]90s, what’s your point? The Russians are working overtime with those misinformation ads and it drives me absolutely nuts. There’s Black people out there telling you not to vote. They’re sexists and hate Kamala Harris, well she’s there and they’re just ignorant. And it’s the same in Latinx, it’s the same thing. They’re out there working overtime telling your grandparents, your dad, your parents, “These young millennials, they’re not like you guys when you





got here, when you got here you worked hard. You didn't beg for nothing. Democrats want to give away stuff!” And grandma and dad gonna vote for the Republicans. [Laughter] I know there's a generational gap, Latin voters, who are Republicans, who went back and forth on this myth of “When you came here—.” First of all, you’re exploited, right? “We sucked it up, these other people don't want to work like Grandpa. We out there picking oranges making.” Nah son, we were exploited, and we want labor unions and I'm not picking them damn oranges for dollar an hour. “That's what's wrong with you guys,” and that’s how they get your grandparents. You shake your head because you know that’s like, your grandpa and them. On that myth of when they came up rather than “Son, I believe you, we want wages with benefits and I'll be damned, I’ll vote with you.” “Oh, they listen to hip hop, that’s what’s wrong with these kids when we came up in the family values— “they can pull all that and they hit the Catholicism on you, “The women want choice?” Then they vote Republican, and that's why it is a big split with Latinx communities. Republicans gonna get the older cats on that rhetoric that you guys are lazy. You're like the Black people begging the Democrats like okay, grandpa, right? Where are you from originally?

	S:	Me?



	C:	Yeah, you from Florida?



	S:	Yeah, I'm from Florida from a small farming town.



	C:	Okay, yeah. So, that rhetoric kind of rings a bell at older Latino men, right? They came Republican backing on that whole that you know, “The younger ones aren't what they used to be,” and y'all basically becoming like Black people begging all





sort of nonsense, rather than wages, benefits, and healthcare. And I agree, I'm not picking that for a dollar a day, Grandpa, you had to but that's not progress. “Well, back in—" Oh and hopefully you know I heard Biden struggle with the Latinx folk and stuff, but hopefully young people step up. That’s the difference, you know, eighteen to twenty-nine because they’re going after older Latinx voters who now they’re citizens, they want to close the door now, “They should do it like me, I came in through the system and we went through blah,” right? We want to get the DACA [Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals], “That’s what’s wrong with those DACAs, they don’t want to go through the process!” No, because if I go home, I’m not getting back in [Laughter]. “Well, that’s what’s wrong, when we did it—” y’all don’t wanna hear all that and I know that’s what they’re telling folks, they should trust the government. Internment camps, World War II, hell naw! I ain’t going nowhere because I don’t trust them at all! Even though they went to school, contribute to the economy, it’s so ruthless up in here. You just can't take that chance if you’re DACA, you can’t. “Well, I work at IBM, they will never let me not back in,” please because there's a mediocre White person who wants that job. Boom! Mediocre. Mediocre, didn't even finish college, waiting for that job.

Don't go anywhere, and that's the politics of not knowing history and not understanding nostalgia and sociology, and not knowing history, that's how you fall victim to that stuff. That misinformation campaign, so now your grandfather and you’re arguing all weekend at dinner, because he’s locked in not understanding systems and you trying to say, “Gramp, that’s just not right man. I’m trying to explain labor.” “No, back when was in—” and that’s memory, you see





that’s not history. But that’s thing you do oral history, see that’s why you have to dissect from memory. So, I’ll give you the last point of this so memory is what? Back in the [19]50s, Black people doing much better. I remember when I walked down the street there was the barber, the doctor, you hear that right? The Black poverty rate was sixty percent in 1950 now it's thirty percent, but we don't see a Black barber. Most people go to White stores, that’s one of the biggest ironies in civil rights work. So, memory says this ideal, statistics say we're doing much better, so as an oral historian how does one gauge that? And that's where you got to be careful because, you’ll talk to a bunch of older African Americans who are gonna tell you, “It was better in 1950.” Black people died earlier, higher unemployment, less educated. Memory, history, some real good, interesting stuff, right? So, I know interviewed those folks in Gainesville, they'll tell you that back in the [19]50s, the Black poverty rate was at sixty percent, but I understand I know, I can imagine what that looked like. Walk down the street, ah everybody’s Black, I get it but there were still poor people. How many people going to college in 1950s were African Americans? Smaller! So, you look at the quantifiable data that gives me the—so, I look at oral history that way, I understand that memory, but then there’s history. And how do they collide? That's only thing, because they're going to tell you a memory, it’s great, it’s perfect, but people were getting robbed [Laughter]. There’s crime. Still human beings, and unfortunately, we're doing better, and it doesn't make sense. How can we do better when there’s less Black business? There’s more Black businesses now than ever, see, again the data is just not making sense, because I get what they're saying. That was a





beautiful picture, walk down the street—what’s that street there—Pleasant Avenue, it’s great! But when you look at the data, sad. Do I want a whole block of businesses? Sure, that be great! So, those are some of the things that when you do oral history, I tried to, but I let people speak; I just contextualize. So, what I would do is like most oral history people would make this argument, however, when you look at the data makes us reconsider or think about how memory works. We usually memorize good things, right? “I remember when I was poor and—” so, it does paint a good picture of what it was like, I get that, but at the same time, I don't want us to think that to be honest, I'm not living in 1920, there’s was no Wi-Fi, they were lynching Black people whenever, they used to come and just lynch me. You can go, I’m not [Laughter]! If you think about it, they could just punch me in the face, don’t do anything, no recourse. So, when people say it was better back in the [19]50s, I just take it with a grain of—they’re elders yes, I understand, I’m not gonna to get into a [Laughter] and that’s something you do in community work, see that’s the other thing. In an academic’s hat, you have to be careful. If you come in there, that can get you in trouble. “You old people don’t know what you're talking about.” You know you’re not going to win, you ninety-something years old, I got to bow down. You live to be ninety in this country, you good with me. But I can't come in and tell them, “Well, you know, Mother Jones, the poverty rate was sixty percent in 1950 and they were just lynching and killing Black people whenever they want. I still think we're doing way better today even though there’s like two Black businesses.” I just can’t diss Mother Jones, she’s ninety-five years old! [Laughter] I can’t go and—the elder





respect comes out of our traditions. Elders, you know, hey! Because we understand you live ninety in this country that’s a victory, because this country is rough! And to survive this craziness, you can say anything you want to damn say. I'm no way, a fifty-year-old guy, am going to tell you that's wrong. I've earned the years to do it, but that's how I function and that's how these things work. So, work in the community you’ll understand, if you don't it's not for you. You very academic, well you can't take that, understand it, and be humble, it’s not for you. “What are they saying?” I’m telling you don't do it, oh they’re not going to want you to come back. “You know that guy John, I don’t like him.” He’s saying the right thing, but that’s not the space for it, because it’s a different space. You’ve been with elders, you’ve interviewed right? It’s a different space you’re learning their history and respecting that they made it through this mess called America, and you just want to understand that. But it's not a space where it’s an academic, here's the poverty rates, here’s this, it's a story. I want to hear how you survived Gainesville in 1950, I couldn’t imagine. People calling you all type of names all this. Oh my God, you know, and that's why, like students. That's why I do like the oral history that you do. When they hear those stories, how people just disrespect you for no reason you gotta sit there and tolerate that. So, kind of like, we like to say things aren’t better but come on now, you know good and well if you walk down downtown Gainesville in 1950, it goes sideways any minute. “He looked at my wife!” What? Bang! I mean, that's crazy. You were living under such racial etiquette I could imagine your blood pressure, just being—you have to walk all crazy, put your head down and be apologetic for everything, man that’s crazy.





That's why I respect them that way because that wasn't easy [Laughter] and now we can at least walk across the street, I can look at the White person looking like that—Well, I think I can [Laughter]. I don’t know the guy in the park at Central Park; I don’t know. But I enjoyed this, my friend, and I hope I can help and looking forward to your project and hopefully next semester, I don’t know, HyFlex and I don’t know if I'm see anybody you know but my office is always open. We have a system, it’s big enough. we can distancing and stuff. So, you want to come through next semester, whatever, that’s cool but good luck to your project.

	S:	Yeah, appreciate it, I really enjoyed this interview it's super helpful. I got a lot of stuff that I can use.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by	Omar Sanchez, February 2, 2021 Audit-edited by:	Abby Lovett, July 13th, 2021

	Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, July 15, 2021