AAHP 721; Griffin; Page 2







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 721 Allonia Griffin Interviewed by Rykia Jackson on August 5, 2019

12 minutes | 8 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Allonia Griffin discusses her early childhood and how she had an active role in raising her siblings. She also talks about farm life growing up as well as the limited resources regarding groceries and activities. Ms. Griffin then speaks on her church upbringing and what it meant and still means to her.





Keywords: [Fort White, Florida, Black Community, Family History, Church, University of Florida, Alachua]



AAHP 721

Interviewee: Allonia Griffin Interviewer: Rykia Jackson Date: August 5, 2019



	J:	So this is Rykia with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. I’m here in Fort White, Florida with Ms. Allonia Griffin at her home. The date is August 5, 2019 at 9—at roughly 9:20 p.m. So thank you so much for meeting with me, Ms. Allonia. How are you doing?

	G:	I’m doing good, thank you.



	J:	That’s good. Okay, so we just gonna start with a few background questions if you don’t mind.

	G:	Okay.



J:   So our first question is: when and where were you born? G:  I was born August the tenth, 1948 in Fort White, Florida. J:   Okay, and were you born in a hospital or at home or?

G:   No, I was born at home.



	J:	Okay, and was that common?



	G:	That was common during the years that I was born. J:	Okay, so who were your parents?

	G:	My parents was Jared and Irene Griffin.



J:   Jared and Irene Griffin and were they born in Fort White as well? G:  My mom was born in Lake City and my dad was born in Georgia. J:   Okay, do you remember—do you know your grandparents?

G:  I know my grandparents on my dad’s side, which was named Dan and Rosa Griffin.





	J:	Dan and Rosa Griffin, okay. So growing up in Fort White, what kind of jobs were available for like African Americans here?

	G:	When I finished school, and I finished school in 1966, and the jobs that was very—you didn’t really have to have an education to go in and work. I remember filling out an application to the VA hospital and me and my cousin went there together and filled out this application, and they accepted her, but she started working in the kitchen.

	J:	Okay.



	G:	But I didn’t get accepted, so I went to Collin’s Drug Store and I started delivering medicine for them. And after I went to the Collin’s Drug Store and started delivering medicine for them, I went to General Electric in Alachua, Florida and there I started working there, and I worked there for thirty-five years.

	J:	Okay, and how was your time working there?



	G:	Well during that, you had to come up and it was a struggle for Black peoples to come up, but as time went on, years went on, and you proved to them that you was determined to work and you did a good job, best that you could, they soon— soon they would upgrade you. So I got upgraded to an inspector, but I know that I had to have this job, because I had siblings that I had to raise.

	J:	Okay.



	G:	And I refused to go on the system, so I worked hard to try to take care of myself.



	J:	And so you did most of the kind of like raising and taking care of and cooking for your siblings?

	G:	Yes, yes, yes. I was a single mom with two children.





	J:	Okay, and so growing up you mentioned that you had siblings to take care of, but were there any like chores or responsibilities like divided up within the household? That they all had to—?

	G:	Well going back when I was like when I was at home, I was only the only girl out of six boys, so mostly I didn’t have to work. I had to work out in the field some, but not much, mostly was in the house with mom; cleaning and cooking and doing the house chores.

	J:	For your brothers—your six brothers—



	G:	My six brothers they was—my dad was a farmer, so they had to go out and help with the farm and the crops, tobacco, and corn, and also raise the hogs and cows. So, they did that kind of work.

	J:	Was that like a common thing for many people in Fort White; farming and all that?

	G:	Yes, yes, yes.



	J:	Okay, so how was shopping? Was there like shopping?



	G:	Shopping in Fort White was not—we did not have but one, two stores that was selling grocery at that time. And I remember that all the family was poor.

	J:	Okay.



G:  And my dad used to go and get groceries from this grocery store in Fort White, Ms. Hollingsworth, J. B. Hollingsworth, and he would go and get groceries. She would let him have it, and he would pay her when he sell tobacco.

J:   Okay, and so what kind of—typically what kind of foods did you all eat?





	G:	The food that we ate was made—mostly was vegetables that he raised on the farm.

J:   Okay, vegetables, okay.



G:   Maybe on Sundays we would have fried chicken.



	J:	Fried chicken. Were there any churches near the community that you may have attended?

	G:	Yeah there was a church. The church that I attend when I was small was New Grove Baptist Church, which was across from the farm we lived on and it was a very—very few—it was a small membership. And I remember that we had the pastor named Reverend Newman, and he was from White Springs, Florida. We would have Sunday school, but the Sunday school teacher and my dad was the oldest two men as deacons, and you know they only was—they was unlearned with so much that they didn’t really you know. They just read and kind of gave that insight of what they read, but as far as teaching like as is today we have come from a long ways.

	J:	And so was it, I remember you mentioned—you said you mentioned the church being kind of down the road, was it you walked to church?

G:  Sometimes we could walk to church. We didn’t have no lights. We didn’t have no air conditions. We had windows that we would put up when it was warm; when it was hot.

J:   Oh, okay.





	G:	And we had a heater there that we would put wood in the heater to keep warm and by coming in we would all gather around the heater, and we would have our church and go back home.

	J:	Oh, okay. And so was there typically any White people who attended the church that you went to?

	G:	No, no. It was only one White woman and one White man come to our church and he tried to give us something. During that time—that’s mostly how my grandparents them learned from the White peoples were teaching them.

	J:	Okay.



	G:	I remember my grandmamma said that they would go to church and they sit in the back, and the White peoples in the front and they would teach them like that, and so that’s really how they start learning.

	J:	Okay.



	G:	And I remember my aunt said that White lady taught her how to spell her name, and then they beginning to learn by books and start learning things like that.

	J:	Okay, and so like in church what songs did you typically sing?



	G:	The songs that I typically sang was hymns. I love hymns, and I love the hymn “Jesus Keep Me Near The Cross” and I love the hymn “Pass Me Not, O Gentle Savior” because truly I don’t want Him to pass me by, and I often called Him, because I want Him to hear my humble cry.

	J:	So those two were your favorite hymns—





	G:	My favorite songs. And my father’s favorite hymn was “Jesus Keep Me Near The Cross,” so I think that’s why—that’s mostly what in the years, maybe in my growing up to maybe ninth grade, that’s mostly what they sang; hymns.

	J:	Okay.



	G:	And then I left that church, and I went to Galilee and we got a little bit more learning there. Then I left that church and went to Antioch.

	J:	Okay, and so in the songs, could you sing a snippet of it for me? One of your favorite ones, if you don’t mind. You don’t have to if you don’t want to.

	G:	I will.



	J:	Okay.



	G:	[Singing] Jesus, keep me near thy cross. There’s a precious fountain, free to all—Thy healing stream, flows from Calv’ry’s mountain.

	J:	Thank you so much. So, for you does the songs, do they relate to you or have like any meaning, any specific meaning to you, this song?

	G:	Yes. Jesus keep me near the cross, because I know that if I don’t trust and depend on Jesus, where would I be? I wouldn’t be here today if it wasn’t for Jesus keeping me, and I love that song “Pass me not oh gentle savior”. I love it, because I truly don’t want Him to pass me by, and I know that he hears my humble cry when I cry out to Him.

J:  Yes, ma’am. So, with the songs that like have such sentimental value to you, do you still sing those songs today and like do they—do you teach your children or your grandchildren or anybody else close to you about these songs?





	G:	As of today they don’t sing these songs that much now. You know there’s the praise songs and they are into all the praise songs and the other songs, so it really tells me about that—but they don’t realize that those songs are what brought where we at today.

	J:	The songs, did they mean a lot about like the culture of the time and how like— G:	Yeah.

	J:	About like African-Americans and slavery and things like that, too? G:	Yeah, yeah, yeah.

	J:	Well, that’s all the questions that I have. If there’s anything else that you would like to add.

	G:	Well, no. I was thinking about that when you called me, and I was thinking of—I was looking up “Jesus keep me near the cross”. That song is a old song, and one time I looked it up, we was having this hymn conference thing, and I went to it in Lake City, and I think when they told me that that song was over a hundred years old.

	J:	Really?



	G:	So that’s a long time, ‘cause see I’m seventy-one and you think thirty years before I was born, they were singing that song; “Jesus keep me near the cross”. It means so much, if you listen to the words of the song. It means that you want to be saved, and you want Him to just keep you, although you gone have some good days and some bad days, but through it all He will keep you.





	J:	Yes, ma’am. Well, thank you so much. I’ve learned so much, and I’m glad you were able to sit down with me and talk to me about this part of your life, so I really appreciate you.

	G:	No problem at all. J:	Thank you.





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Amanda Lorenzo, October 8, 2019 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, April 23, 2020 Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 14, 2021