AAHP 023; Johnson; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 023 Deloris Johnson African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Jeff Morales on May 25, 2010 57 minutes | 31 pages



Abstract: Deloris Jenkins discusses her experiences growing up in Gainesville, Florida, including her time at Lincoln High School. She reflects on Lincoln, her mentors there, and her involvement in activities at the school. Mrs. Jenkins recalls highly dedicated instructors and administrators, and describes a similar overall ethic in the wider community. In discussing more recent years, she also shares her thoughts about her career working in the Physical Plant at the University of Florida.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Lincoln High School]





















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 023

Interviewee: Deloris Johnson Interviewer: Jeff Morales Date: May 25, 2010



M:  I’ll start the interview by stating my name is Jeff Morales and I am here with Ms. Deloris Johnson at the University of Florida on May 25, 2010, here at Pugh Hall. Ms. Deloris is gracious enough, kind enough, to give us some of her time so we can talk a little bit about her history and her experiences here in Gainesville and Lincoln High School. So thank you, once again, for giving us the time to speak to you.

	J:	Yes.



	M:	All right. Ms. Johnson, Ms. Deloris, when were you born? And I apologize. I know sometimes it’s not polite to ask a lady for her age, but I guess we need it for history purposes. So if you could start with your birth date and where you were born and we can go on from there.

	J:	Okay. I was born March 21, 1945 here in Gainesville, Florida. M:	So you’ve been in Gainesville for a while—

	J:	All my life.



	M:	Alright. Tell us a little bit about your childhood, about your home life, about your childhood, being raised here and growing up in Gainesville.

	J:	Oh, growing up in Gainesville has been wonderful because I had a family that was loving and kind and caring and responsible for whatever I did; and it wasn’t just only my family, it was our neighbors. They might not have been next door, but they might’ve been down the street, two blocks, three blocks, four blocks.

Whatever it might’ve been, they were considered as our neighbors. If we were in trouble or if we did something wrong, they were able to beat us, call our parents,





and then we got the second beating when we got home. So there was a parent away from home. So they cared and made sure that we were safe wherever we went.

	M:	Now, as a child, from what you were just saying, they disciplined you there and at home. Looking back now, do you look at it differently than when you were living as far as living during that time? Were you at first like, “Wow, they’re really—,” or did you always know that they were kind of like your family as well?

	J:	They were like my family, so it didn’t make any difference. M:	So you didn’t mind?

	J:	No, I did not mind. [Laughter]



	M:	Can you tell us a little bit about your family, about your parents and possible siblings and grandparents growing up?

	J:	Yes. My grandmother was born down south not too far from here—was in McIntosh, it’s right out of Ocala about three miles on this side of Ocala—and my mother was born here in Gainesville. Yes.

	M:	So you’re the second generation in Gainesville? Wow. J:	Yes. So it’s been a blessing, I could say. Good parents. M:	Good parents?

	J:	Yes.



M:  Was it just you and your parents? And I apologize if—did you have any extended family growing up as well? How big was your family? Can you tell us some of the different people in your family?





	J:	Okay. It was my grandmother, my mother, my aunt. There was three uncles in the household also. My grandmother, she was a wonderful person. She would beat you—when she called you, you had to be there in a second, not two seconds, three seconds, but you had to be there right then. If not, no telling what might’ve happened. But I appreciate everything that my grandmother—because she mostly was the one that was raising me—I appreciate everything that she had did for me because, oh, man, I got a lot of—I mean, I got beatings, sometimes I didn’t do anything but I got the beating anyway. But I just thank God for her because if it wasn’t for that I don’t know what I would’ve been or what I would’ve did. It was a blessing.

	M:	Your grandmother?



	J:	Yeah, because my mother, she used to like to go New Jersey a lot so she was up in Jersey and she used to like to go there and live and work in Jersey. It was more opportunities for her. Yes.

	M:	When your mother was in New Jersey, was that every few months or—?



	J:	Yes, it was just, you know, she would come home about every three or four months. Yes. So it was a blessing. Then my uncle—one of my uncles, his name was Clifford, he stayed in New Jersey, he stayed there. Then I had one uncle that was in the service and he stayed in the service over forty years. Then my other uncle, he was in college, so after he finished he moved to Alabama and he had a family there in Alabama. I remember when I was younger, he used to be in the band and at that time the band—we were staying right down from what is called A. Quinn Jones now, but it was originally Lincoln High School. Mr. Miller





was the band director, and they would march around maybe three or four blocks from the school and then everybody would be out on the sidewalk looking at the band practicing, marching, and just going on. So it was wonderful.

M:   Oh, wow.



J:   Yes.



	M:	That’s great. As far as a little bit about family, was your father present in the household?

	J:	No, he wasn’t. No. M:	Okay.

	J:	It was my grandfather that was there. My grandfather, a lot of times I remember when he used to take me downtown and take me to the store. He used to ride me on his bike downtown and we would go and he would just buy me all kinds of toys and little goodies. So he was real nice. He was a deacon in the church, he became a deacon in the church. We just had a wonderful family.

	M:	Was church life very important when you were a child?



J:  Yes, yes. Even if they didn’t go, I went. It was like we had Sunday school. Our regular church service, BTU, and then night service. A lot of times, when they didn’t go, I was at church.

M:   I apologize. BTU, what does that stand for?



	J:	It’s just like Sunday school, but we did it in the afternoon. M:	Okay. Okay.





	J:	We learned a lot in church, and so, I guess, because that learning and bringing up in the church, that’s why I’m where I’m at now, you know, believing in God and knowing that he’s able to do all things for us.

	M:	Amen.



	J:	Yes.



	M:	So faith was very important to you? J:	Yes.

	M:	Great. Great. And you say it with a very nice smile so it’s, yeah, that's important. J:	Yes.

	M:	You’ve mentioned a few people as far as influences in your life. You mentioned, obviously, your grandmother. Was there anyone else that was very influential during your childhood and during your young life?

	J:	Yes, my uncle that was the one that went to college. When he would come home, he made sure that I had a bank account, saving my money, I wish that I had kept up with that. Saving my money. He would just—and a lot of things he just taught us, my whole family was an influence on me because everybody was full of love and they showed me love and they were able to discipline me if I was out of line. One thing I remember about my uncle, he always told me that when you get through eating and if you’re the one that has to clean the kitchen, go ahead and clean the kitchen before you go and sit down. That way you won’t be relaxed, you’ll have your work all the way out of the way. And I really appreciate that. I taught my children the same thing. Get it all out of the way and then you’re





free from that obligation of washing dishes, cleaning up the kitchen, all that good stuff.

	M:	Strong work ethic? J:	Yes.

	M:	Excellent. Tell us a little bit about your family now. Do you have children of you own? I think you mentioned—

	J:	Yes. I have two. I have a daughter and a son. My daughter is still here in the Gainesville area. She’s a minister. She believes in God real strongly. She’s one of those types that’s real strict, yes, because she just don’t play. Yes. She’s serious. She’s full of love and don’t mind giving because we’re a family that gives. If somebody’s in need, we give. That’s how my daughter is. My son is, too. I remember that when they were younger how I used to—because I used to take my bookwork home because we did everything by hand—so I would have them sometimes do my bookwork while I’d take a nap, so I taught them bookwork. I guess that’s why they stayed in the business of doing this because my daughter, she was working for HR—what is that? Human resources, so that’s where she was working at. And then my son, he stays in Atlanta. He went to school at Morehouse and he told me, he said, “If I can’t go to Morehouse, I’m not going nowhere." God told me he was going to send him and he did it. He said he’s going to take care of him and he did just what he told me he was going to do. My son, when he was in school, he was so active. He was in the band, he was in some home economic activity, and he played tennis. He was so active. So that kept me busy. But God bless when I was able to get him a car, then he won’t





have to be taking my car all the time. So that was a blessing. So, you know, God has been really good to us. Even at the point—my son used to work for IBM when he got out of college, and then after that he started working for Tyler Perry. I don’t know if you ever heard of Tyler Perry?

	M:	Oh, absolutely.



	J:	So he started working for Tyler Perry, but now, he’s working for someone else in business. God has blessed—he has some experience all around.

	M:	Well, he had a great mom to learn from. J:	Yeah, so it’s been a blessing.

	M:	Now, were you married? I’m sorry— J:	Yes.

	M:	Okay.



	J:	Yes. I used to be married, yes.



	M:	Can you tell us a little bit about Gainesville growing up? How has it changed? Obviously, it’s changed a bit. How has it changed and how has it stayed the same from what you’ve seen?

	J:	When we were coming up, we used to have a movie theater on Fifth Avenue. A lot of the businesses that was on Fifth Avenue, they have closed down. They have remodeled some. They have put a housing development on that street, but some businesses, like Duncan Brothers, that’s a funeral home, they’re still there. Some churches are still on that avenue. The church that I used to go to is still down on Fifth Avenue also, but someone else is using it now because my pastor, the pastor I used to have, we built a church across town, Mt. Carmel Baptist





Church, that large church. God blesses in so many different ways. Some of the older people have passed on. It has changed a lot because the young people, their minds are not on being responsible. They just don’t care. A lot of grandparents and parents are taking care of children now. When we were coming up, we did have a job because I started working when I was sixteen at it used to be Cato’s Sundry. We sold hamburgers, hotdogs. He sold some medicine and sundries, and the hamburgers and hotdogs, the ones we had back then, tasted much better than they do now. The food was good. It was just so much love. But things have changed where it seems like people just don’t care about each other like they used to. Yes. When we were coming up, we used to leave our windows up, doors open, leave and go, come back, everything still in place. But now you leave your door open, come back, it’s going to be out of place. You might not find anything. So things have changed. The minds of people has changed. The enemy has gotten busier so he’s on his job and we just have to be on ours.

M:  I agree. What do you think stands out the most in your life so far? What do you think are some of the events that stand out a lot that you feel have stood out in your life?

	J:	Being active and being active in the community. I was very active in school also, because I used to be the band, I played basketball. I even was on the track team, I used to shotput, I used to swim, I was on the swimming team. I was number one on the swimming team.

	M:	Wow. Congratulations.





	J:	Thank you. It’s been some great experience of the activities. If parents could just raise their children, and sometimes children might now hear you when you’re talking to them or telling them the right from the wrong, but as they get older that will reflect back onto them, you know, what my mother and what my father said and then they’ll think about it. And some children do change.

	M:	Thank you. You were talking about your activities in school. Was that in Lincoln High School and, also, in middle school?

	J:	Yes. No, that was Lincoln High School.



	M:	Tell me a little bit about Lincoln High School. Tell me a lot about Lincoln High School.

	J:	Yeah.



	M:	What years did you attend Lincoln High School?



	J:	From seventh grade. Our school, high school started at 7th grade. It went seventh through twelfth.

	M:	What specific years? Do you remember the specific years that you attended Lincoln?

	J:	All of them. Yes. We had very nice instructors. We had instructors that cared about you, and if you did something wrong, you know, they would call your parents. They even could discipline, you know, they could beat you back then, they could paddle you. It was real good. We had good instructors and we had good homeroom teachers. It was just so wonderful. But I remember when I was in ninth grade, that was the year that I was able to get into the band. During that time, we went to Jacksonville and we went to a competition. So that year we





stayed three nights for competition and three days. So we had a great time. That was my first year, like a freshman in school, that was my freshman in the band. What they would do, the seniors, young ladies, would take care of the younger girls, and then the senior boys would take care of the younger boys. The senior girls, they were so nice to us and they made sure that we stayed in line. They kept up with us and everything. That year, it was great. But after that year, they stopped having the three days competition, they went to one day. So when we would go to a competition it was only one day, but I just remember those three days when we went to Jacksonville, Florida. It was wonderful. Yes.

	M:	What instrument—I’m sorry if you already stated it— J:	Cornet.

	M:	Oh, the clarinet? Wow. J:	Cornet.

M:  Okay. Tell us a little bit of what you got into that instrument. How did you start learning the instrument?

J:  That was just something I wanted to play. I was trying to think—I believe that’s what my uncle used to play in the band, and so that’s probably what made me interested in that.

M:   Did you practice with your uncle at all?



J:  No, I didn’t. We just did it at school, we practiced at school. Then we had to do some when we came home because that’s what would make us professionals. Yes.

M:   Very nice. And you said you were very active in athletics as well?





	J:	Yes.



	M:	Do you have any stories as far as while you were playing sports or any activities?



Any stories or any particular story stand out to you?



	J:	When I used to shotput, I was real strong in the arms so that meant that I was able to put it way out there. I used to win a lot of contests when we had to shotput. And the basketball team, we had a very good basketball team. We had some young ladies that was real good so we were able to win a lot of games.

Yes.



	M:	How was the school spirit at Lincoln?



	J:	It was real good. It was real, real good. The instructors, they made sure that we were able to learn and do what we were supposed to do. We had principals there that cared and they came around and made sure that we were in place. They were on their jobs making sure we were on our jobs. And that made us want to be that A student, be that B student, and do the best we could. If you couldn’t better than a C that’s what you had. But they only strived to even make you just that much better because they would have somebody that would—the instructors would stay after school and help the students that needed help.

	M:	Wow. That’s important. J:	Yes.

	M:	Were there any particular or any specific instructors or any principals that stood out to you that really had an impact, or was everybody—

	J:	Everybody. When I was in high school, we had Mr. Nealy, he was our principal.



His wife was an instructor at the school also. We had Mr. Dukes, he was our





senior sponsor. We had Ms. Moody. We had another instructor. But Mr. Dukes used to tell us that he was our daddy and we were to do what he tells us to do and do everything and get our homework. He was just on top of us and made sure that we did what we’re supposed to do. Yes. But as he got older and we had—I think it was our forty-fifth reunion—and when he came, we told him, we said, “look at him now.” We done got older, now tell us that you’re our daddy and we’re going to show you what’s what. [Laughter] We just had fun. They were strict but they was loving and kind all at the same time. We had Mrs. Hightower. Mrs. Hightower was our home economics instructor. We were able to cook, she showed us how to cook. She even showed us how to sew, all those things. This is something you could carry on as you get older and have your own family you can use. So it was nice.

	M:	Were there a lot of married couples, teachers, that were all there as well?



J:  Yes. Yes, it was. Yes. Mr. Miller and then eventually he married—her name was Mrs. Fields, she was the choir director. So they got married. So, yeah, we had a lot of instructors that were married couples. Yes.

M:  Could you describe a day at Lincoln for you? What was your typical day like as a student at Lincoln?

	J:	Okay. When we came in, we’d go to our class, our first class, and then we would go to whatever the second was—but we had about 10 minutes in between classes. But At the end of the day, everybody at the end of the day, we had—I was in the band so that means that I had to go to band rehearsal in the afternoons. We would go to the band room, we would practice. After that, we





went outside and then we’d practice out our marches, and then we’d practice dances because we always danced doing our performance at the football fields. And we had fun. Yes.

	M:	When did you start your day at Lincoln? When did it kind of end? When did your day end at Lincoln?

	J:	It started about—I’m trying to think—I think it was about 7:30 and it would



end about 5:30 because that was band time. Now, when we didn’t have football season then it might’ve been track time. So track, I might’ve stayed there until 6:30 in the afternoon. For swimming, we would swim early in the morning, we’d practice early in the morning before school, and then we would practice in the afternoon, so maybe 6:00 or 7:00 during that time. And then basketball after school would be maybe 7:00. But if we had a game you might not go home until 9:00 or 10:00 at night. So sometimes it was all day and most of the night.

	M:	Wow. Any specific traditions that there were at Lincoln that stood out to you?



Any traditions that you looked forward to at Lincoln?



	J:	Yes, just being around my classmates, friends. Of course, there was a group of us that were in the band together. So it was about six of us young ladies that we hung out together. It was Melanie, Donna Ruth, Ernestine, Gloria Jean, and Celestine and myself. I think I got them all.

	M:	Very impressive.



	J:	We went to class together. We were in every class together. Then, also, we were in the band together. So it was a lot of activities that we did we were all there together all day. Then I might’ve had some that were in my class all day. Then





we were in band practice, we went to the football games together. Then I had some that went to the same church, like Samuel Taylor, he went to school here at the university. We had great activities together.

	M:	Did you know Mr. Taylor?



	J:	Yes. Yeah, we went to the same church. M:	Oh, wow. Wow.

	J:	Yes. We were in class together, we were in band together, and we went to the same church.

	M:	Oh, wow. So you knew each other really well? J:	Yes, very well. Yes.

	M:	How was he as a student, I mean, as far as—



	J:	Oh, he was real smart. Yes. He was the second highest that graduated from Lincoln during our year that we graduated. We graduated in 1964. Yes. His mother was an instructor.

	M:	It seems like you have a lot of good memories. J:	Yes.

	M:	Very good. Great. What was your favorite class? J:	My favorite class?

	M:	Yes.



	J:	Math.



	M:	Math?



	J:	Yes, math was my favorite. M:	Any reason why? Why math?





	J:	I always loved numbers. It was just putting the numbers together, knowing how you can add right quick. It was just so much fun in the math class.

	M:	I guess that’s why your children became really good with numbers, like you were saying, they were good in business.

	J:	Yes.



	M:	Good. Very nice. When you were at Lincoln, how was the University of Florida scene? How was UF discussed while you were at Lincoln? Did people talk about the University of Florida?

	J:	No, not that much they didn’t. No, they didn’t talk about University of Florida. No, they didn’t. When we was in twelfth grade then they’d start asking us what college did we want to go to. Some wanted to leave home, get away from mother. But my family was so sweet and kind, you know, I didn’t want to leave home. So I stayed around. I went to Santa Fe, and then I graduated from Santa Fe in food service. Yes.

	M:	Any reason why you chose food service? Why did you choose food service?



	J:	My family—there’s a background of food service in my family. My grandmother and her brother used to own a restaurant. We just used to like to cook a lot, my family liked to cook a lot at home because my grandmother, she used to cook, and then some of the instructors from Lincoln High School, which is A. Quinn Jones now, they used to come by and eat breakfast. They might come by and eat lunch because my grandmother just loved to cook. She still was in the cooking business. For Thanksgiving, she would give cakes and pies away. For her she would give away, that was her present. So, during that time, she might





cook seventy-five pies and cakes for Thanksgiving. For Christmas, she would cook about a hundred and fifty pies and cakes. For every morning, my grandmother—the house was clean. When we got up the house was clean and all we had to do was get up and made sure we made our bed. We played a part but that was our part. But every morning we would have hot biscuits. Every morning.

	M:	Made from scratch?



	J:	Yes, and it was good. I wish I had paid attention on how to make those cakes and pies and biscuits because I haven’t tasted one biscuit, cake, or pie the way she used to make ‘em. They were delicious. Yes. My family loved to cook even to the point of—there used to be a time where every Saturday I used to get up early in the morning, start washing my clothes, and I would cook and at about 11:00, the food was ready and everybody used to come, all my family members, used to come over and eat. There was barbecue, potato salad, promo rice, and baked beans. Every Saturday morning, all they had to do was come over and eat.

	M:	Sounds like a wonderful family tradition. J:	Yes.

	M:	A lot of love.



	J:	Yes.



	M:	Any favorite recipes that you learned along the way? J:	It was just trial and error, that’s what it was.





	M:	So they were real cooks, they went out there and they really experimented with recipes?

	J:	Yes, and that’s the same thing my brother does now. He’s doing that, he cooks all the time now. Then I go to his house how now and eat every Sunday, and sometimes through the week I would go to him, him and his wife, they would cook. Because they just renewed—they had a twenty-fifth anniversary Saturday so we had a big activity.

	M:	Wonderful.



	J:	Yes.



	M:	Wonderful. How big was the band? You say that you were involved in the band at Lincoln. How big was the band?

	J:	The band, we had at least seventy-five or more. Yeah, it was a big band. Yes.



Every line had to be straight. Mr. Miller did not play. Every line. You had to stay in line. That’s something we practiced. Watching the next person to you, the left.

Yes.



M:  Were there any rivalries, high school rivalries or any school rivalries with another school? Any competitions with other—any schools that stood out as far as, that’s our big competition?

J:  Let’s see. Orlando, yes. Tampa, yes. You know, we handled things. We were handling things. Yes.

M:  Very nice. Any particular schools in Orlando? J:   I don’t remember the names of them now.





	M:	Okay. As far as when you heard that Lincoln High School was going to close, what was your reaction?

	J:	I guess, in a way, it was a disappointment because we were so close as family. We knew how the instructors were. We knew that they cared. We knew that they loved us. Then, another thing you just have to realize that it was something greater for the students to mix and it was more opportunities because they would have more books to study because we didn’t have all the books. All the books was across town, so when they brought the books over so students can have a great opportunity. It was a difference.

	M:	How did they tell you? How did they break the news to you?



	J:	Well, it wasn’t—I already had graduated. It had been many years—I just heard it through the grapevine that they were going to close it down. We were kind of sad, but opportunities for these children that's coming up now, it was going to be better for them.

	M:	What do you think was the biggest loss by the closing of Lincoln High School?



	J:	We had a real strong football team. We had a real strong band. Everything changed some. But, at Eastside, they had a real nice—they had a good band there at Eastside, too. The instructor there was real nice, because my son used to be in the band. It was kind of like Lincoln, Eastside reminded me of Lincoln. Yes.

	M:	When you were stating before that it was new opportunities for them, were there some of your friends or some people that you know or knew that were against the closing of Lincoln, that they didn’t think that it was a good idea?





	J:	Yes, they thought it wasn’t a good idea. They thought the school should’ve stayed open. But we have to move on. You can’t cry over spilled milk, you just have to move on with life. Things do change, and things did change.

	M:	You’re a very strong woman.



	J:	Yes. Just move on. That’s how you have to look at it.



	M:	Do you feel that part of your faith and your belief helped you make those decisions as far as being strong and moving on?

	J:	Well, at that time, probably not, but it was the family that made me so strong back then, but later on through life, my faith and my belief now, yes, because I wasn’t strong in the faith and the belief at that that time.

	M:	How did it impact the community from what you saw as far as when other people knew about it? How do you think the community at large, the whole community, felt?

	J:	They talked about it, but eventually the talking just stopped and they just moved on. Yes, moved on.

	M:	Did they talk about it at work, at church, in the stores?



	J:	Well, at work, at church. But you’ve got to move on. You can’t cry. You just got to move on.

	M:	Did you tell your children about your times at Lincoln High School? Did you tell them your stories about your activities and everything?

	J:	Yes. Yes. We used to talk about the activities that I used to be in, the things that I used to do. Yes.

	M:	Which high schools did your children go to?





	J:	Eastside.



	M:	Eastside?



	J:	Yes.



	M:	Have you visited Eastside recently, or did you visit Eastside during their time there?

	J:	Oh, yes, because we used to have PTA meetings and band meetings. My son was in the band so that meant I had to go to the band meetings. PTA meetings, you have to involve yourself with your children, and so you want to know what’s going on with the school and so I was there.

	M:	During your time at Lincoln, I was reading a little bit about Lincoln High School and the article stated that there were a lot of adults, a lot of people in the community that would go to Lincoln to talk to students and kind of mentored them. Did you see that during your time there?

	J:	Yes, it was. They used to have—we would go to the auditorium and then someone would come in and give their experience about Lincoln and then they would tell us about going to college and bettering ourselves. They were trying to encourage us. Yes.

	M:	Very nice. When did you start working for the University of Florida, for UF?



	J:	Okay. When I started—I worked for a private company, so when I started it was Service Matters and that was in 1968 when I started on campus. Then we had Service Matters came on campus, it was here, and then some of the management pulled out from Service Matters so they renamed the company so it became Service Nation. Then we moved out of the management from there,





these were the people that owned it, a group of people, so then they became Service America. That was about sixteen years ago, and then Digger came on campus and they stayed one year. After Digger left, then Aramark, and they’ve been on campus fifteen years now. We just celebrated our fifteen years in May.

	M:	Congratulations.



	J:	Yes, so they’ve been on campus fifteen years. M:	Great.

	J:	Yes.



	M:	You were talking a little bit about kids today, students today, what do you think about the students that you see every day?

	J:	They’re wonderful. I enjoy them. That’s the reason why—because I had an opportunity to get employed with the University of Florida, but I liked my job, the job that I was going to take on with the University was like sitting behind a desk, sitting in a closed room, I wouldn’t see nobody because I was going to be in accounting. But I like people so I wanted to be amongst the people. Greeting them, showing them love. That’s why I stayed in food service because I love people.

	M:	Very nice.



	J:	Because I remember one time when I first started—well, I probably had been here for a while, maybe five years, and I was a cashier. We used to have a young man come in and he used to be in the racquet club and the racquet club was right next door. It burned down so we don’t have the racquet club anymore. Because right here where Pugh's at, it was a street. This young man would come





in every day and he was so mean, but I kept smiling and, eventually, before that semester was over, he was smiling and talking to me.

	M:	Wonderful.



	J:	So what can you do to help a student that is away from home, lonely, and don’t know nobody here? So, a lot of times, that’s what their problem is. When the semester ended, last semester, a young lady came to me, found me at Pugh and she came and she said, "Ms. Johnson, you might not remember me, but when I first came here, I came from Texas, I was so alone and this was my first year away from home.” I was working at Gator Corner then. She said, “And you just talked to me and told me everything was going to be all right, and I really appreciated it.” She said, “This year, I’m going to graduate this semester.” But she came and told me, she said, “I sure appreciate you. Thank you.”

	M:	That’s wonderful.



	J:	Yes. Then you see a lot of students that come in, some of them, because they're waiting on their financial aid. So what is happening is that they don’t have any food, but you’ll find a lot of instructors will come in and feed them. You’ll find a lot of student that they have made friends with that have fed them. I have bought students food because they’re hungry. A lot of times, they’re not going to say nothing, but you know when students are hungry. It’s just amazing how everybody is trying to help until they get their money. It’s been a blessing.

M:  Now, when you started working for the company you worked for, did they assign you to the University or how did you start working here? I know you were saying you started working for the company, the Service America company?





	J:	Yes, Service Matters was here then.



	M:	So they assigned you basically to come here and work for UF? J:	No, I put my application in.

	M:	Okay.



	J:	Yeah, I had to apply.



	M:	Okay. Now, I understand. Sorry.



	J:	Yes, I applied for a position. I’ll never forget this. It was Mr. Hicks and he was the manager of the unit of the Racquet Club. I came in and I was talking to him and told him that I would like to apply for a job. He told me right off the bat, “I don’t have any openings.” I said, “Thank you.” I was going out the door, because you can’t get mad with nobody about a job because, if they say no, that’s it. But I was still smiling because I had joy, and when I was smiling and going out the door, he had a glass window, and so when I was going out his office and I was

going by and I was just smiling, he said, “Come back here.” He said, “I’m going to hire you,” And he hired me. For the smile.

	M:	Wow. That’s great.



	J:	Yeah. I never forget that. Yes.



	M:	You haven’t lost a smile, I’m sure. You have a wonderful smile.



	J:	I’ll tell you, God is good. A lot of times, when you work with people, everybody is not going to be kind and nice and pull their part, but you just do your part and that’s what‘s important. I remember a lot of times we’d have fellow employees that were supposed to be helping me, because I started as hourly. I started as a cashier. They weren’t pulling their parts, so I just say, well, I’ll just go ahead





and do my job and I did their job while they were playing off. Little did I know, management do look at you to see if you’re doing your job or what are you doing whether you’re playing around. That first summer that I was here—because we didn’t use to have a lot of classes during the summer—so what they would do is they would lay just about everybody off. So that summer I was expecting to be laid off because I was new, but it didn’t go like that. The ones that worked, those are the ones that they kept. For that first summer that I was here I worked, and a lot of them was mad with me because, “She just started. Why is she working?” “But she’s working, so that’s why we’re keeping her.” Then I started going to school at Santa Fe and I had instructors from the VA, I had instructors from Shands Hospital. One of the instructors from the VA, he said—it was Mr. Overton that was here at the time, he told Mr. Overton, he said, “If you don’t make her a manager, I’m going to take her,” because they were friends, “I’m going to take her over to the VA and make her a manager over there.” Then, I had a professor that used to come through the line all the time, because I was a cashier, and he was a friend of Mr. Overton also. So he went and told Mr. Overton—later, I found out all of this—he told him, he said, “If you don’t make her a manager, I’m going to help her find her another job to go somewhere where she can make more money.” And so all of these people were speaking up for me, you know, friends of a friend. So you never know. It’s important to do your job and don’t play around, because if you’ve got a job and they assign you something, go ahead and do your job. Then, if you have time, then you can relax a little bit. I remember when I first started, Mr. Hicks, he used to assign me to do something and I would





go do it. It didn’t take long. I would say, “What else?” He would give me something else and I would finish that real quick. And then I’d go back to him and say, “What else?” and I’d do that and I’d go back to him, “What else?” A young lady came to me and she said, “You’re the biggest fool I’d ever seen. Asking somebody, "What else, what else they want you to do.” But what else helped me to be who I am now, a manager. Starting from the bottom, you could always rise to the top.

	M:	Amen. Thank you for sharing. J:	Yes.

	M:	How has the school changed from what you’ve seen? How has it changed from what you’ve seen here at the school?

	J:	Well, at the beginning, we used to have a lot of home cooked meals, like fried chicken. We had to dip it in the egg dip, go to the flour, and then fry it. It was good, real good. But now we have everything coming in where we don’t have go through all those procedures of doing it. It’s quick and easy. See, we have more students now so we don’t have time to be going to the egg wash and then putting it in the flour and then putting in the deep fry. We have to have everything where we can make it as quickly as possible. All the franchises that we have, it’s an improvement because that’s what the students are used to, going to McDonald’s, going to Subway, and we have all of those on campus now. So they don’t have to run off of campus and then come back and be late for class. It’s right here for your convenience. So all these new items and new facilities that we have, it is great.





	M:	How is it like managing students? Do you like it? As a manager, how do you like your job?

	J:	Some students are really great. You don’t have to run behind them. You just tell them what you want them to do. For instance, Whittier downstairs, he’s great. I just tell him what I want him to do and he just do it. But you find, just in general, some people just don’t like ladies to be their manager. They don’t like ladies. They’d rather have a man that’s over them. I remember back a long time ago when we had Service America here, during that time, they used to call me Sergeant because they had to do their job and this and that, I would tell them

what they’re doing. It was real strict then. We used to wash baseboards, but now we don’t have to get down and wash baseboards. We have brooms that we’re able to do all those cleaning with. Things have changed, not only for the employees’ sake where they don’t have to do all that hard work. It’s easier now, much easier. Yes. Things have changed, but you have some great students. I have met so many great students on campus. And you have to tell them that they’re great too, because you have some that come in that are so respectful.

You know the ones that are in the army or the navy because they’re “Yes, ma’am,” “No, ma’am,” you know, that voice that they have, you know they’re in the service. It’s just great knowing them, I’ve met some great young people on campus. They have moved on and they have become responsible young ladies and men. Then some of the students will come back on campus and they’ll come and find me and tell me how much they appreciate me encouraging them. A lot of times some students let themselves go, because I remember one time a young





man used to come in all the time and he didn’t take care of himself. But I just kept saying, “I’ve got to talk to him,” “I’ve got to tell him.” He’s got to do better. So one day I just told him with love, “You’ve got to take care of yourself. You’ve got to improve because you don’t have be like that.” And then he came back the next day, he told me, he said, “I really appreciate you telling me that.” He said, “I just didn’t check myself out.” Sometimes you just have to be that mother for them away from home. Yes.

	M:	What advice do you have for students, if you were to give some advice to students today, what advice would you give them?

	J:	One thing would be—because some students they have classes that they’ll say the class is so boring, and I would tell them, remember, whatever you learn in this class, you could carry it on to the next class. And if you think the class is boring, always find something interesting in the class that will make you appreciate the class. Maybe the way he might talk or the way he might walk. He’s walking into greatness. Everybody can’t make you feel good when you go to class or express it the way you want it to be expressed, so you just have to find something good in that class, in that instructor, in your students that are in your class to make it interesting to you. Because a lot of them come and say, “Oh, the class is so boring.” Well, find something that makes you interested in that class because there’s something, there’s one little thing that will make you happy in that class, and they all came back and told me. They really found one little thing that made them interested and made them not as bored as they say they were.

One young lady came to me and told me that she walked out of the class and,





sometimes instructors are going to keep you a little bit longer than, you know, the bell done rung, but you know it’s time for you to go and you might have to go way across campus to your next class. You don’t just walk out of the class, you just have to explain to the next instructor that she or he kept you a little bit longer. I said, “You were wrong. Go back and apologize and let them know that you were sorry, what you was trying to do was get to your next class, but that wasn’t the way you were supposed to do it.” Do things decent in order, then you’ll find out that it’s not as hard as you thought it was going to be. Sometimes, when you do things wrong and instructors—because every instructor is not going to be nice after you do something wrong to them; they’re going to find ways to make sure you fail that class—but always do it right. So she came back and told me she apologized and that they have worked it out where she would try to let them out on time. Do things right. You’ll find out that you’ll save yourself a whole lot of trouble. Now, she’s able to graduate, but other than that, I think she would’ve failed because she was going to make sure, even if she had to give her a different test, because she had made that instructor so mad with her. Do things in order.

	M:	It seems like you build good relationships with students. Is it because they see you every day or during the week? Because it seems like you really have a good rapport and good relationships with some of the students. How does it work? Do you just talk to them a little bit and they start talking to you and you start knowing a little bit more about them?





	J:	Yes. Sometimes I just talk and just smile and they say, “Oh, you’re so nice,” and then they might not talk that much that day, but some days when they have problems, they just come back because they’re trying to find out what they should do. What should they do? Did they do something wrong? If they’re wrong, they’re wrong and I will tell you, “You were wrong. You’ve got to do it right." You have to realize that those instructors, they have theirs and, let me tell you, I have mine. It’s up to you to get yours. If you do it right, they’ll help you.

	M:	You’re a teacher. You’re their teacher, too. J:	Yes.

	M:	You help them out. Do you also teach at church? J:	Yes.

	M:	Are you active in church and helping people there as well? J:	Yes.

	M:	Is there anything else that you would like to add that we haven’t discussed or talked about that you would like to talk about?

	J:	No, I think we’ve covered a lot.



	M:	Anything else about your family that you would like us to know and your childhood or anything that you would like to add to what we’ve spoken about today?

	J:	Well, I just enjoy life, and you have to enjoy life. You can’t let stress stress you out. Because a lot of students, they come in and say they’re all stressed out and they have to take an exam and you have to realize that, if you are stressed,

you can’t think right so you’ve got to let that stress go and you be in control. Be in





control of yourself. Because if you’re relaxed, you realize that you’ll do much better on that exam. Yes, they’ll be stressed out. Don’t let stress take control of you because that’s what stress is doing, it’s taking control of you. You take control of the stress and let it go and go on and make that A. Then you’ll relax much better and you’ll do much better on the exam when you let stress go. Just throw it out the window, wherever it is, throw it out.

	M:	I’m going to listen to your advice, too. J:	Yes.

	M:	Thank you so much for your time. Thank you so much for participating in this session and for your service to the University, for your service to Gainesville and your community. It’s been a real privilege. Any thoughts in general on Gainesville? How do you think about Gainesville now? Growing up for many years here in Gainesville, how do you look at the community now?

	J:	It is great. They’re trying to improve all this, you know, the roads. They’re doing a lot all at the same time. There are so many apartments around, but they look beautiful. I was just passing on Second Avenue this morning when I was coming to work and I was just looking how they have remodeled homes that were older and they’re so beautiful. They’re just making Gainesville look so pretty. They have beautified it.

	M:	Well, you've made Gainesville beautiful, too. Thank you so much for serving this University and for helping all of us. Thank you so much.

	J:	Yes. Oh, you’re welcome.





	M:	Thank you, Mrs. Johnson, for your time. Thank you. I can’t say thank you enough.

	J:	All right now. [End of interview]





	Audit edited by:	Patrick Daglaris, March 24, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019