AAHP 002; GWER Panel; Page 10

Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb



Samuel Proctor Oral History Program

College of Liberal Arts and Sciences



Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


The image part with relationship ID rId7 was not found in the file.




241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu





The image part with relationship ID rId1 was not found in the file.



AAHP 002 GWER Panel

Interviewed by Steve Davis on April 20, 2009 1 hour and 39 minutes | 57 pages



Abstract:

In this facilitated panel discussion, Jane Hiers, Jean Chalmers, Cora Roberson, and Vivian Filer speak about their time working with Gainesville Women for Equal Rights (GWER), and its inception as one of the first integrated organizations in Gainesville. The panel discusses the space GWER created for African American women to have their voices heard. Further, they discuss what the environment was like in segregated Gainesville and the problems that impacted segregated Black communities. They also speak about the various committees within GWER that worked to improve employment conditions, desegregate institutions such as Shands Hospital and doctors’ offices, and various other resistance efforts.



Keywords: [African American History; GWER; Alachua County; Civil Rights Movement]



Standards

	SS.912.A.7.7 Assess the building of coalitions between African Americans, whites, and other groups in achieving integration and equal rights.

	SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

	SS.912.A.7.8, SS.7.C.3.12 Brown v. Board of Education

	SS.912.A.7.5 Civil rights tactics



AAHP 002

Interviewees: Gainesville Women for Equal Rights (Jane Hiers, Jean Chalmers, Cora Roberson, and Vivian Filer) with David Chalmers in background

Interviewer: Steve Davis Date: April 20, 2009



	D:		I have some questions here. But if you want to take the lead, that’s more than— that’s actually what I was hoping to do, is just kind of generate a conversation among everyone. So, it’s not, you know, a question-and-answer kind of thing.

	F:	You mean, you’ll jump in with those questions when you need to direct us, yeah.



	D:	There’s a few topics, like, you know, AGH, the school system; different specific incidents that I’d bring up. But I’d rather have it be more of a natural conversation than me asking everyone questions. So-.

	F:	Well, I would start out by saying how intrigued I am with the thought that we were able to get together in the first place. It was unheard of for African Americans and Caucasian Americans to get together to form any kind of formal group to do work for this county. So, I’m not sure who actually started it, started us together. I guess it was Bev Jones?

	R:	Bev Jones, Joan Henry. F:	Joan Henry, that’s right!

	H:	The original was Terry Ault, who was a faculty wife—or maybe her husband was a student. And she, they were involved with the Students for Equal Rights. And when they—the students were having a problem getting backing. And so, Terry thought that getting the women together might be something that would be useful at that point. So, she talked to Pat Creel, who is no longer with us; but she and Pat, whose husband was in the Religion department, got together. And Pat included me, and we sat and talked about the feasibility of getting faculty wives together. And so, I called in Joan Henry, who had just quit smoking. And it’s been





on my conscience ever since! Because she got immediately involved in the whole idea, and sort of took off from there. And we decided to try to get together as many faculty wives as we could, just to see who was interested in what we might manage to have happen. And we met in what was the Student Union second floor library one night, and we had this amazing turnout. There must’ve been forty people, forty to sixty people there. Can’t remember exactly now. But, it was full of interest and enthusiasm, and then it just took off from there.

	F:	Mmhm. Do you remember how African American women were brought into that fold?

	H:	Well, I’m trying to think, because—



	C:	I remember. I remember we had—was it at the Presbyterian Student Center that we invited a whole group of you to come and tell us what it was like to be an African American woman—in those days, a “Negro”—in Gainesville. And we were just absolutely thunderstruck at that parallel to the Gainesville Women for Equal Rights, or a little bit before that was the Human Relations Council, which was the local branch of the Southern Regional Council. And we had been meeting at the Negro library the third Sunday of every month for—well, we started in 1958, I guess. And so, a lot of the members then from the Human Relations Council came over to GWER. That was Anne McGee, and LaKay Banks, and Donna Coward, and—

	H:	Mable Dorsey.



	R:	Cora Roberson. [Laughter]





	C:	Yeah. And you know, we’d meet at the Negro library, where the covers were torn off the books, and crayons, and anything that wasn’t “fit” for the White library went over there. And so, that core of women put together this meeting. And they invited their friends; well, they were all involved in it. And they told the faculty wives all of the problems of living in this segregated community. And these are problems that we had been working on. When I look back on it, it was so patronizing; the African American people would come to our Sunday meeting with their problems, and then we White folks would go talk to the city commission and the county commission. You know? It was interesting to see that change.

And that really changed with the Gainesville Women for Equal Rights, where African Americans were talking to the city commission and the county commission together with us.

	U1:	That’s how we got that name. Remember? “Those damn women are coming again!” [Laughter]

	R:	I’m glad we’re speaking the language of that day, where we’ll be using the word “White,” “Negro,” and “Colored.” Because I remember when all the water fountains, and restrooms, and what-have-you; you could go to the courthouse right downtown, but they didn’t allow you to go to the different stores. They didn’t allow you to go in there. But only in the public places, they had the word up, “Colored.”

	C:	Yes. For water fountains—



	R:	And those are the only kind of places you could go in.





	H:	What had just been built was the new J. Hillis Miller Health Center. And they had the Black/White—

	C:	Colored.



	H:	Black and White restrooms. R:	Colored.

	F:	Colored restrooms.



	R:	Was “Colored” during that time.



	H:	And they had water fountains right on every floor.



	F:	And I want to talk some about that. But I was really trying to remember all of the ways we divided ourselves up into committees. Because I know committees did hard work. They went and forged ahead—because I was on the healthcare committee. But there was the education committee, and—

	DC:	Employment.



	F:	Employment, yes. H:	Voter registration.

	F:	Registration, voter registration. C:	Tutoring.

	F:	Tutoring, absolutely. Absolutely. And to me, the power was there. Because people were on those committees who had vested interest and knowledge, about what it took to make that work. And not only, I think our role was, in coming back in committee, and putting down the next step, and then gathering the resources that it took to move to the next step, but then selling it to the folk who you just said we need to go and speak with. I just look back on that era as really self-





affirming for me. Having always had a big mouth in school, and being always allowed to just say it, I always had the feelings—back to the time when I stopped letting White kids run me off the sidewalk, walking all the way across town. Oh, one day, I was not having that anymore, and we had that discussion. And I didn’t have to have it anymore, because they knew if they came out there what would happen. Well, I did all that as a teenager. But as an adult, there was no place to go to make a difference; it seemed, until GWER, I became a member of GWER. That, I look back thinking on it, saying, “I know that’s where I needed to be, and I know the women who were there were the women who gave me the strength to go and do those things.”

	H:	And we gave each other strength. F:	That’s true.

	H:	Because all of us were weak in some ways! [Laughter] Some of us were more vulnerable than others, and I think that one of the telling things was how many teachers, who were Negro teachers, whose jobs were threatened, who came and stood up for what they believed—and were able to do so. Now, the rest of us were once removed from being fired, and having taken volunteer jobs from which we would— [Laughter] We were not employed, so nobody could fire us!

	R:	Yeah, I remember when I was teaching at A. Quinn Jones; it was then elementary and high school, so it wasn’t A. Quinn Jones, it was old Lincoln. Related to A. Quinn Jones. We used to get—it was a time when you were supposed to be reappointed for the next year. And when they passed that form out, they had down near the bottom, the organizations that you are affiliated with.





And GWER, I believe, was on there, and NAACP. And it was suggested that we not check the ones of GWER and NAACP. But I remember that I checked both of them, and they were looking for me to be fired. But nothing happened, because I was going to test, I was sort of like—

	F:	You were hoping to get tested!



	R:	Mmhm! I was going to test it and see what they going do about it. “I’m a member.



Now, what are you going to do about it?” And Ann McGee was one of those persons, too. And Gladys Alexander was working in speech therapy, and she went around to various schools, so I don’t know—but she probably had to sign one of those same sheets. I think maybe all Black teachers, I guess, but I know we did over at Lincoln, which is now A. Quinn Jones. We had to sign!

	C:	Well, you put your jobs on the line! Boy, what a lot of courage, eh?



	F:	Lot of courage! And you know, I think, hearing those issues discussed in our meetings, and allowing people to opt out if they chose to, was one of the strengths of GWER as well. Because I remember very—talking very openly and real earnestly about who is sacrificing what to move us to this next level. And that was really very important for me; at that point, I had not gone to college. I was a nursing assistant; well, I just thought, “Nobody is going to fire me from anything I can’t get anywhere else.” At that point. But I worked at Shands at the time, and I remember being on the healthcare committee, along with Mable Dorsey, and Alice Howard. You remember Alice Howard?

	R:	Mmhm, I remember Alice Howard, yes.





	F:	And Mary Webb, who’s out in California setting the world on fire. She’s writing and teaching at Berkeley, of course, Mary. Is doing it her way, wherever she is, I’m sure. But the thing of it is, when we met—we knew our job was big, because it involved so many steps. One of the steps had to do with the doctors’ offices, and the second step was the hospitals. Mable was pregnant with Rodney. She chose to stop going in the little back door.

	R:	Sure did!



	F:	And her obstetrician, that she was going in the front door. I was going to Dr. Black as my doctor on 4th Avenue, and I decided that was my last day in the cubbyhole. It was organized. We decided who was doing what. So, the same week that we went out to do that, I did go out in the front. I was amazed that in the front, there was a fish tank, and there were windows, and magazines; I just was amazed, because all we had were four chairs in a little room about as big as a bathroom, and a window that opened up that you poke your head through to tell the nurse behind the desk that you were there. That was it! And once we started in the front door, I never went back to that back area. Nobody would send us away, either, by the way; they saw the news by then. That happened. Also, we challenged the dentist. There was a dentist on 2nd Avenue, almost across from where Alachua General is now. I don’t remember his name. But we went there—his challenge was, he didn’t see African American patients except on Wednesdays, because he had to have time to sterilize his instruments. And I’m thinking [inaudible at 12:20] sterilize it between them, but I bet they would like to know that! So anyway, Black folk were going to Ocala to the Black dentist. I was





riding the bus to the railroad station, to go to the dentist in Ocala. Because we had a Black dentist, at some point in transition, and he—one Black dentist for all of Gainesville. But others of us were going there, as well. But we were able to do that. And then, we’d come back to the big committee with our reports, and where we needed to go, and we encouraged others to do so. One of the dentists in town that I finally took my boys to, who are forty-six and fifty-one now—they’ll hate me for that one—but they were small. And my friend, I don’t remember this member of GWER, but she and I were very close, and she was on the committee. She said, “Vivian, if you want to take the boys to the dentist, why don’t we try my dentist?” And I said, “Okay.” So, she called, and she asked the receptionist if this dentist accepted Colored patients. And the lady was just flabbergasted; we were listening, and she just didn’t know what to say. And my friend said, “Well, go and ask him.” It was Dr.—

	H:	Ben Samuels.



	F:	Not him.



	H:	No?



	F:	It wasn’t him. This guy was on 4th Avenue, and it started with an “M.” Merkodonti or something like that?

	H:	Machaud?



	F:	Machaud! Dr. Machaud! And so, they got him on the phone, he said, “I take any patient that makes an appointment at my office.” So, we made an appointment for my boys to go there, and they loved it! He treated them like little angels. And besides, at the end of the visit, they could open the bottom drawer and pick out a





toy. So, they were his little special—to this day, they talk about him, and how much they loved him. Years and years and years later, when I taught nursing, Dr. Machaud’s daughter came in as my student. I told her, “I loved your daddy!” I mean, it was just so wonderful to have this generational connection. So, that was a dental piece. But I think the most important piece for our committee was the hospitals. The Equal Rights Commission was there, but we GWER decided to challenge it. We’re the ones who challenged it! I tell people, I don’t care how much history you write: we are the ones who sat in that office—four of us, two Black women and two White women—and sat. “You must integrate this hospital because you receive federal dollars under the Hill-Burton Act.” And that is the federal act that says, “If you federal dollars, you got to”—. And this man, after he turned three shades of red—there’s nothing in this room as red as that man was, when we told him that! I thought he was going to lose his breath! But he finally said, “Yes,” and he left. What he did was to take the signs off the water fountains and the bathrooms. [Laughter]

	R:	“Colored” and “White.” F:	The “White” sign.

	H:	That was one step, one small step. F:	Small step.

	C:	But still, the Black babies were born on this floor— F:	The third floor was our floor.

	C:	—the White babies were born on this floor. And those babies were transported up and down in the public elevator!





F:   Yeah, I know. My babies were born there.



C:  Yeah! And when the Ladies’ Auxiliary raised money for sterilizers, they got two sterilizers: one for Black babies’ bottles, and one for White babies’ bottles. You know, it was just absurd!

F:  Well, even more absurd than that is, there was a baby—you had actually, Black folk on this floor, because that was over the boiler room.

R:   That’s right. Right over the boiler room!



	F:	One long hall for women, and one long hall for men. And two little rooms, as I remember, adjacent to that, where they put the babies in the little nursery, and I don’t know if they had an isolation room or whatever that was. But, I do remember my baby sister Cynthia was born, and when my mom brought her home, she was all full of heat bumps all over. And Dr. Black had said, “Well, just let them burst themselves, and just watch.” You know? It was from the heat in that room. But when my son Delano was born, and he’s fifty-one now, I was in the big ward with everybody else. My baby was in this little nursery, and I didn’t get to hold him, because—with the curtain between us—the lady behind me had syphilis, and was dying. And they wouldn’t bring him in the room. But I was there. So, when I finally was able to hold him, they took me out of the room—and then, they didn’t get you up in those days, you know? You were supposed to stay in bed forever. God, we learned a lot! Anyway. They did get me out of the bed, into the hall in a chair, and brought my baby out for me to hold. It was terrible! It was terrible. So, I had a lot of reasons to want to go back and see this man. So, after we left, and took the signs off, and we talked to the human rights travel zone





man, board, about what’s going on, Human Rights said that, “Yes, we’ll get—we may need to talk lawyer now.” I think it was a lawyer out of Jacksonville they were considering for us. We went back for another visit, to let them know that we had turned it over, and these kind of things were going to happen. And I don’t know the regression of when things happened, but I do know—and [19]58 was my Delano, that’s the one that I had to feed in the hall; [19]62, Craig was born.

Craig was a premature baby. So, he was taken right up to the premature nursery. By then, mothers were off of that third floor, and onto another floor where I guess all the new mothers were. But I was not able to get Craig, because they didn’t let you get premies in those days. I hate to think about this; this boy is forty-six, and I tear up every time I think about him. I did not hold my baby for three weeks.

Never held my baby! And when I call him my four-pound premie, he says, “Momma, do you have to say that?” I says, “Oh, yeah. ‘Til you die, or ‘til I die. I have to say you my four-pound premie, because it’s more than that story.” They let me go—the day of discharge, they let me go up to the ward to look at him behind the glass ceiling, but I couldn’t touch him. Because they didn’t let you touch premies at all, so this wasn’t a Black/White thing, this was a sign of the times. Then I went home, and every day called the hospital and Dr. Brill.

Because he always saw Black children. He always did. He is one pediatrician who never—

	R:	That’s right. And I don’t remember sitting at a different room, neither. F:	I don’t either. I don’t either.

	R:	He was right—





	F:	Unless it was an infection or something. R:	Yeah, AGH.

	F:	He was down the road. And every day, I’d call, and I’d say, “Dr. Brill, can I see my baby?” And he’d say, “Well, Ms. Filer, I’ve been over this morning, and this is it.” And then, I’d call the hospital; they’d tell me. Then I’d call Dr. Brill back.

Finally, Craig was four pounds, fourteen ounces, and they said, “Ms. Filer, would you like to go and get your baby?” He was supposed to stay ‘til five pounds, and they couldn’t take me anymore!

	R:	Vivian. You said one thing: he said “Ms. Filer.” F:	He did! In those days, yes!

	R:	But you know what? That was unheard of! You were Vivian, Cora, and that’s it. F:	That’s right. That’s right.

	R:	Never addressed you by your last name. F:	That’s a big point.

	C:	Well, you know the interesting thing with Alachua General Hospital, of course, is that it was owned by the county government. And the county government was fighting with the doctors. And there was this great battle raging, and we had two county commissioners: G.M. Davis and Sid Mark, were friendly to our cause. And the two of them said, “We’ll get even with those doctors. We’ll appoint Jean Chalmers to the Board of Trustees.” [Laughter] So, here was this committee member who’d caused so much trouble, and they put me on the board. You should’ve seen the faces of the men when I walked in. And I stayed on that board up until 1982. I was—





	F:	And we’d know who we could count on. But there always—that’s why when I talk about GWER, I talk about the fact that we had women, strong women, in strategic places who were not afraid to really go to battle. It took a lot. Because, you know, they wouldn’t call ya’ll nice names in the newspaper. And you weren’t discussed in favorable ways in other places, either. But the fact is, we created, I think, a bond, and were empowered. Because what we shared with each other. And we could get on the phone. And we did sit in these rooms, and you talking about just stopping smoking—was it Beverly?

	H:	Joan Henry.



F:  Joan Henry. And Joan, because Joan had bad—but I remember the nights in those rooms, when smoke was a complete haze. I mean, there was a balloon above our heads from the smoke!

C:  And you know, I would go from GWER meetings over to the Milhopper Nursery School where nobody smoked.

	F:	I know! Smelling like a smokestack, and you hadn’t had a cigarette! [Laughter]



	C:	And I was at Milhopper Nursery School meeting the night that Martin Luther King was killed. And the phone call came, and I was told: I was the only person in the room that cried. And I just wished I could be back in the smoke-filled room! [Laughter] And I’ve always remembered that. When I see someone who smokes, I say, [clacks tongue] okay. You know. You probably have a big heart.

	F:	That’s right. I really did.



	D:	I have a question. So, Vivian, in the panel discussion at the Matheson, you had a quote that I thought was pretty interesting. And it was: “Just because it might





appear on paper, doesn’t mean that it actually gets done.” And in the process of desegregating Alachua County Schools, the devil is sort of in the details. People can say that they’re going to desegregate, but there are a number of ways that they can slow the process, or frustrate the process. So, I was wondering if you guys had any comments on that, or—there was one specific personality, William “Tiny” Talbot; I don’t know if you could talk about him.

	F:	[Laughter] Cora, you want to talk?



	R:	Well, one thing I remember in particular was the fact that we were paid—Colored teachers—were paid less money than White teachers. And you know how we found that out? By talking, being friendly, with teachers, as we would meet in the—oh, what is the name? I can’t think of that place where we charged all of our supplies and everything.

	F:	Oh, like your district store? Was that on— R:	On University Avenue.

	F:	Yeah. I don’t remember the name of it.



	R:	I can’t remember it, but it was one of our biggest office supplies at that time. Do you remember—?

	C:	Well, Chestnut’s was there. F:	Yeah, it was another one. R:	I believe it was Chestnut.

	F:	Did you charge at Chestnut?



	R:	I think so. Uh-huh, we got to pay for our school supplies, and the teachers from different schools would come in, and they’d say, “What are you doing? What are





you paying—excuse me, but what are you paying for?” Say, “Our supplies that we use for the children.” Say, “Are you paying for those out of your pocket?” I had a large bill that, every month—and other teachers—where we would buy the materials that we were taught in college to use with the children. We had to pay for it. And they said, “You shouldn’t be doing that. The school system is supposed to be paying for that material for you to work with the children!” Well, it took a while for it to change. But I think maybe some of the teachers, some of the White teachers over at Kirby-Smith, I think they kind of entered in kind of and spoke up for us and over at A. Quinn Jones, we soon stopped doing it. And then, I think Williams and Duval elementary schools maybe got that privilege a little bit later. Not a long time, but I believe A. Quinn Jones received it. Because we had this connections with these teachers, especially over at Kirby-Smith. And they would tell us what was happening. All right? Another thing that I remember, during that time, was the salaries: they were unequal. Because they would tell us how much they made, and we would say how much we made, and they would say, “That’s ridiculous!” Now, these are special teachers. And I think we met there when we got paid off; we got met there almost on purpose, so that we could talk to each other. Because that was the only time. It wasn’t like meeting with you guys, Women for Equal Rights; this was just a kind of off-the-record meeting. Because when we meet with you, it was kind of like a big sorority sisterhood. But this was people just feeding us information, because they were learning and we were learning.

	F:	They were your Watergate. [Laughter]





	R:	Yeah. Yeah, we were learning from them how we were not treated equally. And they were learning how it worked, on the other hand, because they were unaware that this was happening. We came back to the then-formed education committee, and they thought they would investigate, because you can’t go by hearsay; you got to really know what you’re doing. And, Jean, were you a member of that group that went up to the school board after hours? You had to stay up there after hours so you could go and look at the records and see?

	C:	Right. And I think, was it John Duke that led us in?



	R:	Somebody. John Dukes or somebody let you in there. C:	I think John Duke let us in there.

	R:	And let you see the records, and found out that what we had told you was actually true: that we were not getting equal salaries.

	C:	Right. There was no Sunshine Laws in those days.



	R:	That’s right. That’s right. And I remember having to babysit—not having to, but volunteering—to babysit for some of the rest of you guys that had babies to free you up so that you could go over there in the evenings and check those records. And a lot of times, we couldn’t be out front, because nobody listened to us. You had to go in and see that things were done, and discuss the situation and what was happening, and we had to just be supportive to you. And sometimes, that included babysitting while you went to take care of the business. Because if we tried to, nobody had any time for us. “And let me check the calendar”—secretary. “Well, let me check his calendar. He’s filled out for this time, he’s filled out; well, I don’t see where I can give you an appointment.”





	C:	And this went through right into the [19]70s. Because I remember when I was working at the Crisis Center, I remember going through the records, too. And I remember going up and speaking in front of the school board. And I was working for the county government. The County Commission called me and said, “As long as you’re on the payroll of the county, you cannot go and scold the school board!” [Laughter]

	F:	One hand doesn’t know what the other hand’s doing. Well, you know, I think those are really good examples of ‘just because it’s written doesn’t mean that it’s done’; the other part of that is finding out that it is written. And I think somebody like Mr. John Dukes would’ve been the person who would clue you in. Because I remember his first teaching job. He was a Lincoln High School graduate who went to the Service, and to college. And he came back into Gainesville with the idea that he wanted to move his school forward—which he did. He, for the first time, organized our first National Honors Society. And those of us—Janie Williams, Vivian Filer—that whole group were Lincoln High School’s first members of the National Honors Society. He made a way to take us, because nobody’d done this: get a bus to take Black kids from a school on a trip. He took us to Tallahassee, to the legislative sessions. We went to see—we went to see, we went to the Senate, and the House of Representatives. Under the guise of doing that, he also planned that to be the very night that they had a play on campus: Carmen. I never will forget that. And we were able to go see Carmen Jones. Not only that, he was engaged to Bernice, and she was in college at FAMU, so we were able to go on a picnic where he brought his fiancée Bernice





who became his wife. So, for us, that was unheard of. We’d never been on a trip, we hadn’t been on a bus, we didn’t have a clue as to what happened in the Senate or House of Representatives; had never been on a college campus; had no clue what it meant to go to a stage play. So, in that one weekend, he tied all that—that is the kind of thing that John Dukes brought back to Gainesville. Now, he continued on with that. When we graduated as being his first class, we were the first group that he led into organizing into an alumni group. So, every year, the class of 1956, every five years, had an alumni celebration, up until we celebrated our 50th year a couple of years ago, and that was our last one. He always came to speak. He never stopped reprimanding us. He never stopped telling us—but he always did “Out of the night that covers me / Black as the pit from pole to pole / I thank whatever gods may be / For my unconquerable soul.” He meant that. He meant us to have unconquerable souls. But you know, Cora, my hat goes off to all of the teachers like you who, out of their pocket—not only did you take funds out of your pocket, you took love out of your heart. You took concern—because you were in a place where our parents weren’t. You were educated; our parents weren’t. That wasn’t a divide. It was a layer-on.

Apparently, what they did at home, you added the zest once you were in school. We know that. We know that the Mable Dorsey who taught us to make these Hungarian dishes we’d never heard of actually bought the items out of her pocket. She had a little store that let her get it on credit it ‘til the end of the month, when she could pay for it. These are the pieces of the pie that Black teachers did that nobody knew about. I used to go to school, I never believed you should





comb your hair. That was just an unnecessary art. My sister did. My mother went to work early; she thought I did, too. I just thought that was a waste of my time.

You see what kind of hair I have. So, when I got to school and my hair wasn’t combed, Mrs.—not Ms. Walker, who was her counterpart? Ms. Daniels.

	R:	Mmhm, Marie Daniels.



	F:	She loved me. Because I was always smart, I was just very, very lazy. And I hated combing hair, because it hurt! I just didn’t think that was a necessary art. She always had a comb and brush in her closet, which she would spray with something. And then she’d take me in the closet and comb my hair. She didn’t want the kids see that, and so she’d take me in the closet! She didn’t want me— because other kids didn’t have my idea, what it took to groom, and so I was like the one on the outside. But over and over and over, we heard those stories.

That’s why I know that the sacrifices that the teachers made in those meetings, and the things they brought to forefront, really made a difference. Also, another story health-related was the fact that—I heard from one of the nurses; I don’t know if it was Mrs. Woods, because you know she was there a long time. When we acknowledged her presence about twenty or thirty years ago, she spoke of Dr. Banks, who was just like the Zion of doctors. I mean, they talk about his skills in the OR, but his skills were everywhere. And she recounted a story about a Black kid who needed an incubator. And he bought it out of his own pocket to put down in that room, for that baby. Because otherwise there would’ve been no heat for the baby.





	D:	I have a question: was there any intimidation on the UF campus, of people who were involved with civil rights? Were jobs threatened at all, or tenure put in jeopardy by your activism?

	F:	[Laughter] Did you husbands tell you to stay home?



	C:	The husband of our president was Marshall Jones, and he essentially lost his position at the University of Florida because of it. He was the faculty advisor for the Students for Equal Rights. And his wife, Beverly Jones, was one of the founders of the Gainesville Women for Equal Rights, to help support Marshall’s students. And my husband could tell you the whole story about that. And yeah, Bob Canney, he lost his job; there were people who lost their jobs in the University of Florida because of involvement. Dan Harmeling had a job at the library, and he was arrested up in Quincy, I think, at a demonstration, and his grant was taken away. A lot of students lost their student aid; they weren’t expelled, but they lost their student aid, they lost their grants, and for some of them it meant that they couldn’t keep going. The faculty wives, of course, didn’t have any problems, because we didn’t have jobs. There was the old rule in the state of Florida—many states during the Depression—was you could only have one member of a family work for the government, because they wanted to spread the jobs as broadly as they could across all Florida. So, that was still the practice at the University of Florida. So, if one person worked for the university, another member of the family would not get a job. So, you had all these overeducated women that couldn’t get a job, had time on their hands; it was the worst decision the state ever made, because it meant we all had time to become radical!





[Laughter] If they’d given us jobs—and indeed, with GWER, as soon as we all got professional jobs, the organization sort of petered away.

	R:	That’s right.



	F:	The other side of that lesser—well, not lesser, but on another level—was that jobs in homes, for Black women, as maids, in University of Florida homes with professors was big. I mean, they, a lot of women left whatever side of town to go into the home of a faculty person to be the maid. So, that was real important. And in some of those instances, I know that they were told, “Was it your daughter out there doing this?” Or “Were you involved in things” that were civil rights-related.

And those were trying times for some people on that level. I don’t think it stopped anybody, because my mom was one of those, and I never stopped.

	R:	That went in to the White family, as a maid. F:	Uh-huh. Uh-huh.

	C:	Yeah. But then, the other side, Rosa Williams, was Jane Sterritt’s maid. R:	That’s right! That’s right! [Laughter]

	C:	Jane got Rosa into the Council for Human Rights, and I remember Rosa had talked with such a stutter, she could hardly talk. And Rosa would stand in the kitchen rather than come out and meet with us all. And Rosa and I were appointed to a covered dish committee. And that’s when the two of us became friends, 1959. And I remember saying to Rosa, “But what if everybody brings meat, or everyone brings a salad?” She said, “If you’re doing the Lord’s work, He’ll straighten out the food.” [Laughter]

	F:	It’s worked every time, hasn’t it?





	C:	It’s worked every time!



	F:	And she knows how to straighten out food!



	H:	Yes. Yes. She worked at Bell Nursery as a cook for a long time there. And she was a great, great help.

	F:	You know, that’s another big, empty spot as far as African American children were concerned, because there was no organized daycare. We kept them in homes—which really was a good thing. You know, when we think about, we always say we’re better off if we—but sometimes we’re not—having in my family, my mom worked at that time, but between the three sisters there was a sister at home. And we’d pass the children around, including the cribs and the clothes they wore. Because the boys were like a year apart, year apart between the three sisters. But as far as organized daycare, which had its value, we didn’t have a lot of that. But I do remember when they opened the daycare center, Mr. Lenard—what was Lenard’s mom? Ms. Bell.

	R:	Jackson. Lenard Jackson, but she was Bell.



	F:	Uh-huh, Ms. Bell. That was a big deal. Yeah, my son was one of the first ones to.



And I have pictures of him, Delano, when he was in the parade and all. And there, we started organized daycare.

	R:	That’s—my girls went there. F:	Went there too.

	C:	Well you know, it was Bell Nursery that inspired us to integrate United Way. F:	I do remember that; yes!





	C:	And United Way would only fund White organizations. Well, to be a member of United Way, all you had to do was contribute. So, a whole group of us contributed money to the United Way. And then came the annual election of officers, and we all marched up there with Rosa! [Laughter] We were all sitting in the audience, and they presented a slate, “Are there any nominations from the floor?” “Nominate Rosa Williams.” “Second.” “All in favor?” “Aye.” “Rosa Williams.” [Laughter] [Inaudible 38:08] United Way, and Bell Nursery got United Way-funded.

	F:	That’s right. And that’s the kind of strategy that always worked positively for us.



Because they weren’t going to give it; you had to go in and get it. You got to strategize how to get it, and that’s how we did. I know that when we were doing the whole health thing, one of the issues we were talking about was health insurance, and those things. And I won’t call it this name, because I don’t know where these people are now and what their stances are. But there was an insurance agency that was giving us trouble, and we needed to talk, and we needed to go into that office and sit. And I was working with another person on my committee, she was White. And she and I had talked about which issues we would cover, how we were going to handle this. And she decided we’d get an appointment. Separate; they weren’t going to know we were together. She had her appointment, but I had called to make my appointment. She said she had to wait to get in; when she did, they had their appointment. And then, before she left, I called. And I couldn’t get him on the phone, this gentleman. And so I waited an hour, and I called back. Still couldn’t get him on the phone. And she told me





later when we met, she said, “Vivian, when he heard your name, he got physically ill!”

	R:	He didn’t want to talk to you!



	F:	He had to go in the bathroom and be physically ill! He never did well enough that day to talk to me, but I called the next day, so. [Laughter] He eventually did have to speak with me, but the idea—see, talking to a Black woman on an equal basis was not something a White man did. Not all White men—you know who I’m talking about: the ones who thought, “I’m the power.” And they couldn’t handle that. Well, I’ve never had a problem with that, because I’m just talking to another person as far as I’m concerned. I don’t look at hierarchy and roles. I want to be respectful always, but I do think I have something to say. And so—actually, I have to tell you, I was getting a little bit of pleasure out of the fact that this man was physically ill, though; I cannot lie and say that upset me at all! [Laughter] The fact that he had such a negative connotation, I thought that “Hopefully, this’ll give him a wake-up call.” But I pursued, and finally I did get the visit. And we had the conversation, and I walked away with what I wanted. But he had to work on it. I think he’s had some mind change since, and I do think he’s better off for that. But those were the kind of things you just never knew. And Wilson’s Department Store, on the corner down there now where the Welcome Center is. You could go in Wilson’s Department store and look at their clothes; if you wanted to try on a hat, they’d rush in—

	R:	And put some type of— F:	To cover your head up.





	R:	Cover your head up.



	F:	But you couldn’t—before you put the hat on—



	R:	Before you put the hat on, yeah. Some White person would come by and try it on.

	C:	Well, it was the only store that would let you try on a hat, period! F:	That’s true. That’s right.

	C:	I mean, the other hat shop down the street, they wouldn’t. F:	Was it Bonds or something like that?

	R:	They wanted you to buy the hat without trying it on.



	C:	They wouldn’t let an African American try on a hat. But you know, you were talking about health. Remember when we investigated the Department of Welfare? First, we found out that one of the county commissioners’ parents were on welfare. And so we thought, “Well, we’d really like to look at the rolls and see who’s on welfare.” And we never could. Every time we went—I won’t mention her name, but every time we went, there was some reason we couldn’t see the rolls. And then, we heard that she was off at a convention in the Bahamas for welfare directors, and we said, “Right.” Put on our white gloves, went down, and said that Ms. So-and-so had said that we could come here and pick up the policy of the welfare department. And so, the girl said, “Oh, okay. Here it is!” And so, we sit down and read the policy, and “Alachua County Department of Welfare is to serve the needs of the poor White people of Alachua County.” And so, we went to Sid Martin and G.M. Davis and said, “Here’s the policy! Get rid of her.” And they said, “Okay. We’ll get rid of her, but we need another vote on the





commission. If you guys will go out and help get”—Jennings? Or Jenkins? Johnson? What was his name?

	R:	Ed Jennings.



	C:	Edgar Johnson. “If you help us get Edgar Johnson elected, we will fire the director of welfare.” So we said, “You’re on.” And we made little walk maps; Grace Knight helped us with that. We went door to door campaigning for Edgar. And he got elected, and they fired the director of welfare. And that’s how we got the Welfare Department integrated. But everything that got integrated took intelligence, hard work, chicanery, and a lot of acting.

	H:	And perseverance. Just the perseverance, not to let it go.



	C:	And then, when we took on the state welfare department—it was just as bad, but it was statewide—we did research. We researched welfare policies in Holland, and Canada, just all over. And we’d go up to Tallahassee, I remember we had a Pabst Blue Ribbon beer box just full of file folders. And there we were with our rubber thong sandals, and our little cotton dresses. And when we would go up, we always went up as an integrated group, and when we drove through Perry, if a Black person was driving, the White people would duck down. If a White person was, the Black people would duck down. Because it was not safe to drive through the town of Perry with Black and White people.

	R:	That’s right. Mm-mm. F:	Not at all.

	R:	Reminds me of the Driving Miss Daisy.





	C:	The head of the committee was a League of Women Voters woman from Tampa I can’t remember, but she was wonderful to us. And we got to the point that, a couple of nights before every committee meeting, they call us, and say, “What do you think of these wordings? What do you think of this idea?” So, we really helped. We changed it then to the H.R.S.: Human—

	F:	Resources.



	R:	Relations, or some kind of thing.



	C:	Whatever. Human Resources. And we really helped, the GWER members really helped write that state law. Yeah.

	D:	Did you discuss the merits of different kinds of tactics, and did you ever consider civil disobedience? Were there ever moments of doubts about the effectiveness of civil protests, petitions, and lawsuits?

	F:	No.



	R:	Really, we worked really hard to stay within the guidelines. We knew how far to go, and we didn’t really cross the line as to breaking the law. It was more or less the White people going out—the White women going out—and getting the information and working on the problem. And then, when it was legal for us to cross the line—and there was a line—that’s when we did it. Because I think we—

	H:	I think it was a matter of being a presence, that this group became a presence that then, people backed off again before they would be too aggressive about dealing with us. And I remember the night that—I don’t know whether you all were there—where the GWER board meeting met at my house to entertain Chief of Police Joyner. And he came in, and walked in, and the place was full of the





board at that point. There were twenty-six of us there. And he walked in, and his eyes got like that—“This is your board?” [Laughter]

	R:	His eyes couldn’t believe what he was seeing! He couldn’t believe it.



	H:	And he had been very—it was hard for him, because he was caught inside of the Good Old Boy network in so many ways. But when I had persuaded him to do something about what they were doing in Atlanta, in community policing, and he sent one of his lieutenants up to get training in this, and then put him in—I forget which part of the community he put him in. But then, he brought him that night, over to introduce us around and get this established. But he was trying to move into—he was using us as a wedge, which he could move in behind and do a few things that would not pull him apart when he went back to what was a very racist department. I remember Cora coming to one of the meetings and telling us about having been—were you asked to leave your car, or did the officer just yell in at you, “Girl, why don’t you move your car?”

	R:	Yeah. “—move that thing.” Move that thing.



	C:	But I remember that meeting, or was it the next one, where we had then done some research on what he was paying the sheriffs. And we compared it with other sheriff departments in more progressive cities, and we presented him with this payroll, and we said, “A man can’t support a family on what you’re paying them.” And he said, “Oh, really? Is it low? I didn’t know.” He was a wealthy man! And he didn’t know that you couldn’t live on two thousand dollars a year. But I remember he was genuinely shocked, and of course, you get what you pay for. So, he was getting some pretty rough people who were bitter because they were





underpaid, and they were probably poorer than you, Cora, as an underpaid African American schoolteacher. [Laughter] At that time, the White sheriffs were probably making less. So, it was interesting times.

	F:	Well, it really was some interesting times. When my husband started to teach, I don’t know what White teachers were making, but my husband’s first teaching job was in 1961, and he was making four hundred dollars a month. I don’t know how that compared; it doesn’t sound like much money. But I was a nursing assistant, I was making two hundred. So, based on the times, I guess it wasn’t too bad, compared to what other people were doing.

	R:	I started in [19]50, and I was working in Hawthorne. I worked there a year, and I was making three hundred.

	F:	A month?



	R:	Mmhm. Three hundred per month.



	C:	But you know, back to your question: a few of our members did go to jail. But not as members of GWER, for other activities.

	F:	And another piece of that is, other organizations were doing things, that they knew that we would be supportive of them in some way. And sometimes, it did mean that we would march with them, not so much as GWER, but I think maybe some of us may have, but we could join in with them. Because I remember when the teachers were striking, and they met down at the theater, and [inaudible 49:36] for salaries and all.

	C:	We used to all march.





	F:	Yeah, we’d all march. And I remember, I don’t know what this other incident was, but I remember my husband calling home from work and saying, “I understand there’s going to be a march on University Avenue. And they’re going to sit in the center of University and Main Street. Please don’t let me see you on the six o’clock news.” I said, “Well, don’t turn on the TV, because if they march and sit, I will be there.” [Laughter] You know? You couldn’t say it out of one side of your mouth, and not work through it on the other side if there was a chance to do that. [Laughter]

	F:	So I didn’t make it to jail, but I was always out there trying. Mmhm. [Laughter] C:	Now, when David went to jail, it was with the Student Government for Equal

Rights, wasn’t it? David? What organization sent you to jail?



	DC:	That’s a different story, isn’t it?



	C:	Yeah. But it wasn’t GWER, but it was— DC:	Not organizational.

	C:	Oh, it wasn’t organizational. Oh, it was just—



	DC:	Dan Harmeling, and Brownie had gone, and sat in in jail. Dr. King was there, and they wanted White people, wanted White bodies; they weren’t getting any attention. And so, the two students, who were both members of the Student Group for Equal Rights. And then because they went, then faculty went: Marshall Jones, and Jim Brown, and several others. And because they’d gone, then several others of us went. And Jean and Felicity Trueblood were ready to go next. But this was not organization.





	C:	Yeah. Right. Okay. So, I think most of the jailings were just individuals going off, getting into trouble.

	H:	There were other ways in which we had interactions back during the, when the rest of the country was pretty much on fire after some of the shootings, some of the assassinations. And we had a member who had a real restaurant on 5th Avenue, Sarah McKnight.

	R:	Sarah McKnight.



	H:	And she, I came back from the summer having left as vice-president of GWER, and having come back in September to find that the president had moved away in my absence. [Laughter] And coincident with that was some of these things going on. And Sarah called me one afternoon and said, “You have to know something: there are carpetbaggers coming from some of these Northern cities where they’ve had a great time bagging up goods in these fires that have been going on. They’re thinking about setting fires here in Gainesville. And they’re thinking about the city manager, and the”—Jean, what was—?

	C:	The district attorney.



	H:	The district attorney. And there was one other person—a judge, I don’t remember. It was before Article V, so I don’t remember what the judge was. Anyway, “You have to know that you’re here, and I can’t talk any longer.

Goodbye.”



	R:	[Laughter] “I can’t talk any longer; goodbye!” C:	That’s how we got the news around!





	H:	What do I do? So, back to see Chief Joyner again. [Laughter] And said, “I have no idea where this is all coming from, or how much truth there is to this, but this is what I’m told by somebody who has big ears where there’s a lot of talk. And so, I’ll leave it with you to decide what you’re going to do about it.” Yeah. But there was a tremendous amount of interaction, and we did have some fires.

	F:	I remember. Yeah.



	H:	And I think it was Green was the city manager at that point. Was his house, or was it Jay [inaudible 53:37].

	C:	You know, Carlene Hussey’s house was bombed. Remember? Carlene was the attorney that helped us with so many of our—she’d write our amicus curiae briefs for us, and help us—and her home was bombed. And I’ve never quite known what happened there. It was about the same time Carol Thomas was in prison.

	H:	And that was a little later, in the [19]60s.



	C:	That was, let me see. Jim would’ve been two years old, because I took care of Carol Thomas’s children the summer she was in prison. And so, that’d be thirty- nine years ago! [Laughter] Yeah.

	F:	Okay.



	C:	It was easy to get put in the prison.



	F:	Wow, that was the late [19]60s or [19]70s, early [19]70s. H:	Yeah, it was in the [19]70s, I think, yeah.

	R:	You could get put in prison for just eating at a lunch counter downtown. C:	That’d be [19]69, I remember that summer of [19]69.





	F:	I like the fact that we were really a group of diversified women: college-educated women; women from grassroots, women who worked at menial jobs; women who were entrepreneurs. All with the one desire, and that was to integrate this city in a way that allowed us to come of it alive, but to move it forward. It was a university, it should’ve been more progressive than it was. But I was telling you the story earlier about the integration of Alachua General. The same day that the group of us met at Alachua General, we drove over to Shands Teaching Hospital, which had opened in [19]58 or something like that. It opened with the integrated floors. So, they wouldn’t separate the surgical patients by putting them on the floor—all surgical patients were on the same floor. But they could not share a room. Two races couldn’t share a room. So, you couldn’t put a Black patient in where there was a White patient. And I worked at Shands as a nursing assistant at that moment, and I remember the stories; the nurses would stand at the desk, making this decision on where to place the patient. And we’d go through the archive of questions to ask—you know, does the patient have anything infectious? No. Is the patient same gender? Yes. Does the patient need more activity—you know, all the things that nurses have to think of. And when none of those things prevent the two of them being in the same room, decision would be made to place them in the same room. Except in this particular instance one night, the one girl’s eight, one’s ten, one’s Black, one’s White. And the nurse Sally—I’ll never forget Sally’s name; she’ll be glad I don’t remember her last name!—but she said, “But we can’t—” “Down on west wing, there is a room with an eight-year-old in it, it fits the bill.” Nursing assistants weren’t supposed to have





much mouth, except it was me. And she said, “Well, we can’t, we can’t.” I said, “Are you expecting that this baby will go to sleep in her room with her Black roommate, and during the night, the Black is going to seep down off the side of the bed and make its way across the room and infest this child on the other side of the room? What is your problem?” And she was so mad at me! She was so mad at me for that. But we had discussions. I said, “We really need to talk about this.” But that’d happened before. So, this group of us went over to see the administrator at Shands, sat down with him, and gave him the same speech as with Alachua General—you know, the Hill-Burton speech. And immediately, they made a stand. It went on their admission sheet that said “We comply with the federal laws on integration.” But that was fine for the stamp. But this is one of those because it’s written, it’s not necessarily done. So, every floor, every Black nurse, had to fight—they first had to know it existed. Then they’d have to fight to have it carried out. Because there weren’t that many Black nurses. Those of us who were fighting were housekeeping, and aides, and whatever, because we just didn’t have that many Black nurses. I know with my floor that we may have had maybe one or two over a period of time of Black nurses, but that didn’t stop me. Because I knew that these children who ate together family-style in the playroom every meal, played together like children play together. They get rid of the guff: they play together. But they couldn’t share a room at night; it had to be done. But every floor, every Black nurse there could give you another story, race-related, that I don’t know about, because it had, until it became—and then, on the other side was the patient, who absolutely refused to be in that hospital room with





another patient. Then we find out where your administrative staff stands. Because if it didn’t work for the nurse on the floor, the nurse on the floor had to call the next level, and the next level. Somebody had to stand behind the policy. So, a lot of times, when you had people working in the right direction, they would say, “These are your options. This is your room, or you may choose to be discharged. Those are your options. We don’t cater to moving you because you can’t stand to be in an integrated room. And Shands is a special hospital. I mean, you’re good to have gotten in here, period! And these are your options.” And so, parents would—but you know, I remember that anger. I remember taking care of the patients, even after I graduated in [19]72 and went back to work as a nurse on the floor. And I’d walk in the room, and they find out that I was their nurse; they wanted somebody else.

	R:	[Laughter] That’s right!



	F:	It’s midnight, sweetheart; I’m it! It’s either me or no nurse. And one night, a doctor came on the floor—more than once, but this one I remember. I was the only Black person at the desk. I had three aides up there, two White and one Black aide, and I was taking my orders off. And the doctor walked up, looked at one of the White nurses, and gave her a verbal order. And she listened. I didn’t say a word. And then, when he finished, she said, “But I’m not the nurse.” And he said, “Well, where’s the nurse?” And she pointed to me. He said, “Can you do that?” And I said, “I’m sorry, were you speaking?” I was not—I can’t take an order that he gave to somebody else. So as far as I was concerned, he had not spoken until he was giving me a verbal order, which I verbatim would write, and then he’d





sign. He was so upset! But he had to learn. And we had to do that over, and over, and over. Always having to prove that, “Yes, I am the nurse.” But before that, you know what? When I wasn’t the nurse, and I was the aide, and they sent a White nurse? I was telling my little sweethearts what to do, be they Black or White, if they were new, because new nurses don’t know it all. And those of us who’d been aides forever, we were helping them making decisions how to do these things. And that was okay. We still do that. That’s what nurses do. But the fact is, they wanted to decide; because I was of another ethnicity, I should not be the nurse.

	R:	They did the same thing in the public school system. They would come in the classroom, and if you had a White assistant—lucky enough to have an assistant, period—well, they would always go to the White assistant to ask any questions about the class or what-have-you. Say, “I’m sorry, I can’t answer you. You’ll have to go to the teacher.” And you should see how some people would look! They would be very disappointed.

	DH:	Excuse me, we need to take a tape break here. D:	Okay. Would be a good time to break.

[Break in recording]



	D:	I have another question: how did your work with GWER influence your thinking on feminism? Was your activism on civil rights issues a sort of feminism in practice, in the sense that defending the rights of others was also a way of asserting your rights as a woman?





	F:	I’d say yes to all of the above. One of the things that I’ve always been proud of: I’m one of five daughters. And my mom and my dad were the household. So, we already knew women had power. I mean, we’d exerted that all life. My mother is a very strong woman, and she—I mean, my mother could do what we all knew our mothers in that era could do: raise a family, take care of a home, do all of those external things that she did. But they were difficult to do, but they were done. We had a healthy respect for our father as a man, and we knew that. But we knew that women were not given the chance outside in the world to do the things that they were capable of doing. They were not given the jobs; they were not paid; you had to have your husband do this, or—you know. I felt those things, personally. Being a part of a group of women who came together and had these thoughts, and could strategize and plan and move ahead, I just thought it was the greatest thing to happen to me. I was a very young woman at the time—I won’t say how young because I don’t remember how young. The older I get, the younger I was. But anyway, to have that as my entranceway into, I think, really being a woman in charge was a good thing to me, because I learned from so many levels of women who’d done different things, women who walked different ways in life, women who had different expertise; and I think the whole business made me have the capabilities that I had beyond that point, to forge ahead, to do what I wanted to do. But to always respect the fact that woman power is strong power—for me.

	C:	But you know, Vivian, I was resentful to the women for not being so active in GWER and starting to be in consciousness-raising things, and I felt that the job of





civil rights and equal rights for African Americans was not done, and that all this energy was being drained away from our main cause, into the feminist cause. It took me a long time to cool down on this issue. I was angry at some of my friends for what I thought was abandoning the racial justice programs, and going for the gender justice programs.

	F:	Mmhm, I hear that.



	H:	Well, I seem to have a different take on this, because the way I was raised, my father looked at me and said, “You can do and be anything you want to be.” And it was always that way from the very beginning. And so, it never occurred to me that there was this glass ceiling anywhere. I just went and did what I wanted to do. And I’ve always been a community troublemaker, I guess. So I stepped into a lot of places that one wouldn’t necessarily find whether one was male or female, Black, White, or Purple. But if something was being done wrong, people needed to be reminded, especially if they were public servants that had been elected to take care of everybody and were being very selective about who they took care of. [Laughter] They needed to be reminded. So, from way back in high school, I’ve been doing things like that. And it never occurred to me that one had to be any particular kind of a person, except being offended by the fact that not everybody was working for the common good. So, I’ve never experienced this business of there being an obstacle right there. And so, it never has been a problem for me. But I’ve always gone to the cause of the moment being the one that we really need to address, the one where the greatest offense against humanity is being perpetrated at that point. So. That’s kind of where I came from.





	D:	Cora, do you have any thoughts?



	R:	Yes. I remember living through the times when you had to go to the back doors, couldn’t go in the front doors; White people—a lot of White people, I don’t want to generalize and say everybody—but most of them wanted you to, if you had any questions or anything, or for any reason, or you worked the place, you had to go in the back door. And restaurants, you had to go around to the back in order to get served. You had to go around to the back and get food through a little cubbyhole, and little window. And that’s the way you were served. I remember having done domestic work when I was in high school, and this one lady that lived across from the library—and she was not able to do any shopping, she was not able to go to the library or anything, but she liked to read magazines—she would send me after school over to the public library. And the library then was down where the Matheson Center is. That was the first library that I can remember. And the post office was where the Hippodrome is. Well, when I would go, she would send me over to the library, she would always write a note, and she would tell me who to give it to when I got there. And I would give it, I learned who this person was, and I would always wait on her. Why, I was going in to the front desk of the library. People would just stare at me. I was just a high school girl. They would just stare at me. A few people didn’t, but you could just feel eyes, you know, staring at you. I go up and give her the note. But when I gave her the note, for the magazines that she wanted, the Times and what-have-you, I’d have to go back and stand by the door until she beckoned for me, or if I was looking around and she didn’t get my attention, she sent for me and brought





them back, and then I went on out the door with the material to take to this lady that lived right up there on University Avenue across from the library. And those are the kind of things that really got to me. And the post office, I didn’t have that type of experience, because at school I had learned that you stay in line and what-have-you, and at home too, and until your turn comes. So, they’d be lined up to the window at the post office when I wanted to buy stamps for her. And I would just go up my turn. But there’ll be times even there that I would be standing there, and somebody would just walk right on up ahead of me to the window and get their stamps, or whatever kind of business they had to do, as if I didn’t even exist. And I didn’t know—I was a child, I didn’t know what to do about it, I just stood there and seethed; I was just mad about it.

	F:	In reference—so, I’d like to add more to the gender/civil rights discussion, and that is, African American women were so busy fighting for the rights to just live and be alive, and make—the women’s fight was of less significance to us. Not that it didn’t mean something. But if you’re talking bread and butter on the table, as opposed to the right to sit in the boardroom and talk, which we weren’t in anyway, you have to take it all, I think, in perspective. And the other part of that is, we wanted equal rights for our men, who were the leaders that we loved, too. We wanted all people to get there, but we realized Black men were at the lowest ebb on the totem pole. We couldn’t just bypass that little fact to fight for the rights of women; we had a deeper hole to dig ourselves out of. And I always said I’m very proud to be a wife, and a mother, and a female in a household that has a male. And I’m very proud of all of those things. I want my husband to be able to





get a job based on his ability. I want him to move ahead based on his ability, but I don’t want me to get at the expense of him not getting there because of his race. So, you see? We weren’t as—I think we weren’t as visible. I wasn’t. Even though, if asked to say something, I certainly supported in that way. But I wasn’t trying to spend all of my energy there. Not when I was raising young men, and I knew other young men who were going to prison, and who were doing all these things, because they were minus the basic rights. So, when you talk about it, the thing I always said was, “White women may have been born with gender equity, but they were always born White.” Yeah, they’re always born White. Black people are born Black, and that’s not going to change. And the divide was not even. So, I always talk to people now about “Where we going to get—,” “Why can’t we stop doing this,” “Why can’t we stop doing that,” “Why can’t we just be together and be right?” I always say, “When are we going to play catch-up?” How are we going to cover the chasm from all of those years of have-nots, and have-not-dones, and have-not-achieved, and when we cover the chasm and get to some place where we have equalized, the median, then we can talk about walking out even-footed. We aren’t there yet. And there’s no sense in those of us who are fighting to get there to step back and say, “Oh, yeah. Let’s just make it all right.” Well you don’t just “make it all right”; you do what we did as GWER: you fight for it to be right.

It’s not a dream, it is reality, and it’s not over. You see, covert racism is worse than overt racism, because you got to dig that out, then you got to wash it out, then you got to dry it out, then you got to iron it out, and then you got to put it in the sun to see if it shines through. You have a lot of work to do with covert. And





when I tell people that, I say, “Now, wait a minute: there is institutional racism.” Institutional racism is Joyner not knowing that two thousand dollars a year wasn’t enough—he just didn’t know. The institution did that. But you can’t live on that; you have to know! So, you got to go in with the mindset that the job’s not over, and even though I want my daughters to get equal pay, I want also for my sons to be recognized.

	R:	That’s right. And not be classified as “boys.” F:	That’s right.

	R:	Never become—you could be ninety, and you were still “boy.” F:	Or “Uncle.”

	R:	Or “Uncle.”



	F:	Oh, I hated that!



	R:	I did, too.



	F:	Rather than call you “Mr.,” mmhm. R:	Even, we were “girls.” Or “gals.” F:	“Black gal” was one of them.

	R:	Mmhm, yeah, “Black gal. Move out the way.”



	D:	Two more questions, and then, I don’t want to stop the conversation prematurely, so we want to go on, we can. This is a related question to a topic we were just on, but after the election of Barack Obama, there was a lot of talk in the media about “post-racial era.” To what extent do you think that era is upon us, and I think, more importantly, what should be on the agenda of civil rights activists in the early 21st century?





	F:	I think I was just about answered that, out of my seat, so if somebody else wants to—. [Laughter]

	H:	Well, one of the things that happened on the Election Day, after the votes were counted: I kept getting this picture of all of these White people who were standing suddenly without the shackles and the prisons of their inherited, culturally- determined view of one another. And suddenly, being free, and not even knowing they’d been in prison. And how many there are, and how many takes, as everybody as individual—how many people are going to have to learn a new way of living. Free, able to breathe, and didn’t realize they weren’t breathing. And I could just see this mass of people who are in this position of reorganizing their lives and the way they think, and the way they do. And fortunately, this great gift to us of Barack Obama, someone who has such understanding and feeling, and knew the problems already, knows how to deal with the people who are going through them. And it’s just been such a blessing. It isn’t all over; I mean, there’s still going to be these people who are closet racists, and they would be—

	R:	Some of them are not even closets. I listen to FOX. [Laughter]



	H:	Yeah, the closet isn’t there anymore. But, people who have this need to put somebody else down are never going to be satisfied until there’s someone they can put down. And if it isn’t a matter that’s visible, it’s another visibility. When my mother grew up in New York State, it was Irish. The Shandy Irish. You were never supposed to have anything to do with them! Because somebody said so. Now, the culture determined it. And the people who were insecure bought into it. And the people who never had a chance to think about it bought into it. So, it’s





just another measure of the fact that we’ve never gotten down to the problem, which is, the people who are never allowed to be themselves never find out who they are, and never feel free to be who they are. So they always feel insecure about it. And the only way that a lot of people deal with this is by putting other people down. End of sermon. [Laughter]

	C:	I thought you spoke that very well, I agree with you. I don’t think we’re going to know for another ten or fifteen years. I think the huge impact is going to be on the young Black male. There’s a whole lingo now on the street: you “Barack” somebody. And it’s very positive. Or you’ll say, “Hey, that’s a Barack!” And so, it’s given them a whole word and a world to use for self-esteem and pride, and to congratulate each other. And when you get middle school kids congratulating each other, that is rare. Because it’s generally put down—

	F:	The other side.



C:  You know, it doesn’t matter if it’s Black on White, or Black on Black, or White on White; it’s all negative, negative, negative. And now, suddenly, there is this kind of positive thing that’s happening.

H:  And thanks to public radio for putting that on so that we could all hear about this story.

	C:	Yes, mmhm. But it’s been going on all through the campaign; this is not a new story.

	H:	Yes, but now that we get a picture of it that everybody sees as a particular picture separated out from that.





	C:	Mmhm, right. So, I think we’ll see a difference in our Black youth. But I think we won’t know for ten or fifteen years.

	R:	Well, when I—I used to like to listen to FOX News. But within, since the election, and even coming up to the election, when they just campaigning, there was always this put-down when it came to Obama. Most of the news people would talk in terms of what some—his friends, and how he associated with certain people. And I looked at it like this: with so much racism still existing that this was a young man that associated—he didn’t push himself onto people, but people that wanted to associate with him, that’s where he connected up. He connected with those people. But it didn’t mean that he was taking on their attributes or anything like that. But he associated with them because they had something to offer to him at that particular time. And he knew how to sort out and take the good, and leave the other alone. But now they still throwing it back at him, that because he associated with this person, or he associated—that didn’t make him. He was made already. And he had been taught the right thing. Thank God for his grandmother that reared him. She had taught him right from wrong. And he knew what to grasp from that person, and what to let go. He knew when to hold ‘em, and he knew when to fold ‘em. [Laughter]

	F:	Well, you know, just to talk about the “post-racism”; I think what we are post- is not having elected a Black president before. That’s where we “post-.” And we’ve done that, and we’ve achieved that. I think you cannot take one circumstance, one situation, and use it as a measure point for the deep-seated racism that’s in the United States of America. You can’t do that. Now, I am really pleased with





the strides that have been made. The election proved a lot to me. It proved to me that young people are out there thinking for themselves. It proved that they are not only thinking, but they’re acting on their thoughts. It proved that a lot of them have the right stuff, and they’re going to move us ahead. But we haven’t gotten there yet, because those young people who are doing all that moving, they don’t know what we’re talking about in this room. But this is history. They have to know history so we don’t repeat it. Maybe not in the realm where it was repeated, but in some realm it can be if they don’t know it well. But they don’t know it, and I know they don’t. Because I speak with them often. Not every young person, but too many of them haven’t—can’t know our part, African American history, because it’s not written. We want the school board to integrate Black history into the schools’ curriculum from K through 12. There is a written curriculum that’s ready to do that, so that you don’t spend all of your time talking Martin Luther King and Mary McCleod Bethune; those are great people, but they are not the history. The history is day-by-day, integrated so when you read it, you don’t have to say, “Oh, this is Black history.” You don’t have to say it! It’s just history. That’s where I see us calling ourselves “post-racial”; when we do have a history that befits itself of telling the story of America. Now, we can go there, and we need to go there, but we need always to be cognizant of the fact that we’ve made a big step forward.

We are now represented in the White House by a woman who is stellar. I mean, my granddaughter wore her Easter dress with the shoulders out, because she was Michelle—“Michellie”—in her Easter dress! [Laughter] And she’s six years old. So. And now we have the first grandma, who is going back to what I know





grandma to be, and that’s the hierarchic monarch who looks after the family, who does—that, to me, is very precious. And a mother who is an educated woman who goes beyond just what we think of as a mother; she is a woman within her own rights who is a mother. She’s a mother in her own rights who is a woman who knows other things. So you see, that’s who Michelle is. And she’s married to this man who has his head on straight. So, and when we get all that together, I think we’re going in the right direction. But let’s not arrive too early; the train is still on the rail. It has not reached the station, and we should not try to propel it out there without paying the price, day by day, year by year, ten years, twenty years. We need to pay the price. We need them Obama-ized, we need the pants up, we need them looking at education as a great thing. We need everybody doing that, but hasn’t happened yet! Give it time. I think it’ll happen.

	D:	That’s a great answer. This is my last question, but feel free to continue: what was your proudest moment as a member of GWER?

	F:	Well, how many do we get to think? [Laughter]



	H:	How many moments do we get to count? [Laughter] F:	Yeah, that’s right! We each get a different one.

	H:	There’s so many!



	F:	You know, I think just having people recognize who we were and who we were for—I mean, even the commissioners saying, “Here are those damn women again!” You know? That meant that we were doing something. We were a thorn in their side. So, the accomplishments are many. I think when Gainesville realizes that the accomplishments of GWER—with the support of the Equal





Opportunities Committee, and all those people—the achievements of GWER really started and really did a lot of the work for integrating this great Gainesville of ours. So, I guess my proudest moment is now. Looking back over it [inaudible 1:23:20]. [Laughter]

	C:	I think my proudest moment was when I admitted to myself and to the members that poverty was our issue. I remember standing up and making a little speech, and it was the first little political speech I ever made in my life. And I was really nervous doing it, because I’d been very much a behind-the-scenes kind of person. And it all came about with the poor African American woman that I had been befriended, and been working with, and she had a slew of babies, and she was washing diapers—pumping water out of the well and washing diapers in a bucket. And just down the—lived in Rutledge. Just down the street, there was a washer-dryer. Put your quarters in, and they wouldn’t let her in. And I went to talked to him about this situation, and he said, “Jean, I’d let any African”—well, “any Negro in if their diapers weren’t so dirty! But I can’t let her come wash her diapers here because they’re just too dirty. She can’t wash them.” And I said, “Well, she really doesn’t have a place to wash them. All she has is the well.” And he said, “Well, somehow, you women—you damn women—are going to have to do something to get running water into all of the Negro houses. And then, maybe, we can be more equal.” And he was—you know, for just a funny little merchant, he opened my eyes. And I remember coming back and saying, “We have to fight poverty. We can’t deal with racism until we do something about poverty,” and that’s where we started with the welfare board, and understanding. And that’s





when we really pushed to get water over to the northeast. In the northeast part of town, there were privies in the backyard. Water didn’t go there. And the League of Women Voters was a little bit more conservative, but they joined us in many things, and one of the wonderful things that they joined us on was poverty housing. And Nina Starr went and took pictures of all these dilapidated, terrible, terrible houses, took them up to the city commission with a slideshow, and showed slides of all of these terrible shanties in which African Americans lived, and they were all owned by members of the city commission! [Laughter]

	R:	Of the city.



	F:	Of the city commission, mmhm. R:	That’s right!

	C:	Well, there was a housing code, and water and sewer lines were then put into the African American neighborhoods. But all around Duval there, those were—there was no sewer, no water. And so, I think my big recognition was the day that I thought, “It’s poverty. We’ve got to deal with poverty.” And still today, you know. There’s nothing that makes an African American look quite as White as money.

	F:	Green does it.



	C:	Green does it! Yep. D:	Cora or Jane?

	R:	If I had to speak to that, I tell you one thing that made me very, very proud, and made me feel like I was more of a part of the community. And especially the Black community—and I got that closer connection—was when we were deputized. And we went out to these—we went on Springhill, we went on Sugar





Hill, we went on Northeast Gainesville around Duval, and we registered all these people to vote. And that did something to me, because I had never heard of anything like that. I didn’t know it could be done. But thank God for, what her name? Alba? Alma Bethay.

	H:	Alma Bethay.



	R:	She let us be deputized, and we could go out and register people that were afraid to go to the polls. They were afraid, because sometimes they would be threatened, if not by the poll workers, by somebody in the community or on the outside. And some of them were actually afraid to go; they heard something about what happened in Perry, what happened in Madison, or Levy County, and they were afraid to actually go to the polls. In some places, they would ask—I’ve heard that they would ask you, and have a big old jar there full of marbles or what-have-you, and to test your intelligence, you had to look at that jar and tell how many marbles were in there. That was a part of the test. And when you couldn’t do it, you were “illiterate,” and you couldn’t vote. They had all kind of techniques to keep you from voting. Sometime, I’ve heard of people coming out from registering, and when they would register, the person that was back in the back area, that was a Black person, would see them put their, where you just registered, in the trash can. And things like that. Those kind of things just really bothered me. And I feel that GWER caused a lot of that to be changed, not only in Gainesville, but in the county, and just spraidy.

	C:	Well, Cora, I think another proud moment for me was when you ran for city commission.





[Vocal outburst of agreement]



	C:	And did you run for city commission! [Laughter] [Further interchange]

	H:	And she was honored. F:	Can the camera see it?

	H:	She was honored by Pegeen Hanrahan’s mayor a couple of years ago. R:	Yes, uh-huh, November 11th—

	F:	I tell that story all the time. R:	November the 11th was a— F:	That’s one of my favorites— C:	What was it?

	R:	November the 11th was declared “Cora Robison Day.” I was proud of that. F:	What year did you run?

	C:	We were so proud of you! R:	[19]68.

	H:	And you didn’t lose by that much! What was it, three hundred and—? R:	Nine hundred and some votes.

	C:	You did very well!



	R:	I was running against Perry McGriff. C:	And you were the first woman.

	R:	The first woman.



	C:	And the—were you the first African American?



	R:	No, but really, the first woman to run for city commission.





	C:	Reverend Wright ran after that, didn’t he?



	F:	No, it wasn’t Reverend Wright, it was Reverend—he lived in my neighborhood. You remember Reverend—oh, gee. Can’t think of his name. He was an AME minister. What year did he run? I don’t know that that’s important, but I think he ran.

	C:	But you sure did us proud.



	R:	Bless you. And you’d almost gotten in trouble; I thought maybe Charlie—that’s my husband—would’ve just thrown me out to the wolves! [Laughter] Because the way this happened, I was working up at Kirby-Smith, and I came home that afternoon, and it was about five-thirty. And Jean, were you in that car? I forgot who the group were, but it was a group—

	C:	I don’t think so.



	H:	I think Pat Ferris, and probably Shirley Conroy.



	R:	Was a car full of Women of Equal Rights waiting for me to come home. And when I got, when I drove up, the girls jumped out the car, and they, “Hey! Hey!” And waving to me, because they were used to being with them a lot anyway, and with their children. And they asked me, “Cora, don’t you want to run for city commission?” I says, “No, not really!” [Laughter]

	H:	And Joan Henry was one of them. F:	Oh yeah, I’m sure Joan was.

	R:	Joan Henry. I said, “No.” “Well, we want you to run. And blah-blah-blah-blah- blah,” they just kept saying, “This is the time right now for you to run. And they’ll be closing at five o’clock, so come on, let’s go on down get registered.”





[Laughter] I said, “I don’t mind doing it, because I think there’s a need here.” I said, “But my husband doesn’t get off from work, working at Koppers Company”—because he hadn’t gone to college then—I said, “He’ll be home at five o’clock.” She said, “That’s too late. You got to get there and register before five o’clock.” And there I was between a rock and a hard place. But I decided, I said, “I’ll just suffer the consequences. I’ll just go on.” So I did, I got the children back in the car and went down, and I registered. And when I got back home, I think he was there, and I told him what I had done. And I told him it was the Women of Equal Rights that thought I did! “Don’t blame me, blame them!” [Laughter] I said, “I didn’t have much time, and I’ll withdraw if you don’t approve of it. I’ll just withdraw.” He said, “No, don’t withdraw. If this is something you want to do, I’ll support you.” And that strengthened our relationship wonderful. Not that it was weak, but that just kind of did something to me to say that I made a big decision like that without discussing it with him, and he approved it. And so, then it was run, Bertie, run!

	H:	And you were a good couple, and I have to add this, too, to the story, because as the campaign heated up, and Cora began to get a larger and larger reception and backing, suddenly, Charlie said—Cora told us this—looked at her and said, “Cora, you can’t get elected; I can’t cook anything but pancakes!”

	R:	“—but pancakes!” [Laughter]



	F:	Bless his heart! So he’s really the reason you didn’t get out. God bless his heart, he would’ve learned.





	R:	And Dr. Weber here at the university was my campaign manager. Now, I had a lot of people backing me then.

	H:	Well, I have to look back on all of these things and say that every day, we were doing things. We walked through a lot of muck, and we fought a lot of battles, and we had a lot of successes, and everything just, every day was a day that felt hopeful and good that we’d done the right thing, we were going in the right direction, and the grace of God and the guardian angels were with us.

	R:	That’s right.



	F:	With us, yes. Yes.



	R:	Do you remember the time we went down to, in Levy County—I don’t know what the name of the springs down there—but we went down there to a park. And everybody was surprised when we arrived in Levy County, an integrated group with all these children, Black and White children. But our children were already dressed for swimming. Our children got in the pool, and when our children got in the pool, our integrated pool emptied on the other side. They took all the White children out of the pool. Mmhm.

	F:	They did that regularly in Gainesville.



	R:	They took all the White children out of the pool. And they couldn’t swim together, but yet, here was Black and White over here, swimming together. So, we ended up just taking our children out and leaving. Yeah. We were insulted, so we left.

	C:	What a handicap, eh?



	H:	What freedom now! What freedom now. F:	But the whole system was a handicap.





	R:	But people just take it for granted. C:	It was a handicap for everyone.

	F:	It was! The double bathrooms, the double this, and the double that. R:	That’s right, it was really a handicap!

	F:	It really was. But you know what? The greatest loss of all of this is the humankind loss. Think of the generations who really were people who would have felt the humanity, humanistic part of each other, had they not been practicing this whole slavery, enslaved people, thing. Because I know that people haven’t changed.

We still are the warm-blooded human beings we always were. Except one ethnicity decided it was better than the other, and therefore lost all that. Because when I tell my stories, I talk about the human love and warmth that African women brought to nurture European children. Because, European were a little more stoic, and they didn’t do—so, when I do my stories, I say, “Think about this. This is an African American story. But it’s about an African woman who came to America, who is giving love to the children on the plantation that aren’t hers.” These are White children. But her children way on the back forty, somewhere over there, that she left this morning, know that she loves them, too. So, when the story says,

“Bedtime 's come fu' little boys. Po' little lamb.

Too tiahed out to make a noise, Po' little lamb.

You gwine t' have to-morrer sho'?





Yes, you tole me dat befo', Don't you fool me, chile, no mo', Po' little lamb.”

The little White child heard that. When I do this in schools, and White children and Black children are there, they all hear it. Because it’s all full of love. It’s all Paul Lawrence Dunbar’s work. He wrote it from the words he got from his parents, who were enslaved people. He wrote it as a free man. But he wrote it to tell the story. I have many of those of his, that he talked about the nurturing and love. So, no matter where we go from here, if we stay in contact with what makes us human, which is love and sharing, the rest of it is just happen. Because we already proved we have the mind and the strategies to do it. If you don’t have it in here, you know. That’s my prophecy. [Laughter]

	D:	Well, I think with that, I’d like to thank everyone for making it out on this rainy afternoon, and I appreciate all of you sharing your thoughts and memories with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, and future historians and the public at large. Thank you very much.

	F:	Well, I thank each of you for making this so wonderful! C:	It was fun!

	F:	Yeah, it was fun. It’s fun to go back there with somebody who was there with you. R:	Mmhm!

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, July 13, 2017





	Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, August 9, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 14, 2019