AAHP 667; James; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 667 Bobby James 6-3-2019 Interviewed by Joe Hartman on June 3rd, 2019 1 Hour 4 minutes | 32 pages



Abstract:

Bobby James begins the interview talking about growing up in Marion County and his schooling experience before touching a bit on his family. He then talks about his experience being in a sharecropper family and his time playing football in college before talking about some people who influenced him. After that he talks about one of his mentees and gives some life advice before talks about some of his achievements and ending the interview.

Keywords: Silver Springs, Ocala, Marion County, National Hockey League, Tennessee State University, Education, Howard High School, Howard Middle School, Madison Street Elementary School, Central Florida Community College, Paul Quinn College, Tucker Hill, Long Island, New York, Chicago, Farm life]



AAHP 667

Interviewee: Joe Hartman Interviewer: Bobby James Date of Interview: June 3, 2019



	H:	Good morning, my name is Joe Hartman and I’m here with Mr. Bobby James at the Silver River Museum in Silver Springs Florida on Monday June 2nd, 2019.

We’re sitting in historic one room school house that Mr. James will hopefully be able to tell us about during our time together. I have the pleasure this morning to interview Mr. James and ask him to tell us a little bit about his family, his childhood, his education, his career and his interest and involvement with the Marion county community. This interview is being recorded in order for Mr.

James to share it with his family and also for potential inclusion the collection of oral histories with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida. And with that, let me ask you Mr. James to tell us your full name.

J:   Bobby Lee James.



	H:	Bobby Lee James, and where and when were you born? J:	I was born in 1947 here at Silver Springs.

	H:	Here at Silver Springs— J:	In Silver Springs yes.

H:   Okay.



J:   And when I think in terms of where I was born actually it’s the Ocala area.



Actually when I think in terms of Marion county I like to think of it as being my town and you know, when you’re in a place and size of Rhode Island and you say this is your hometown, I guess at one point I visited every little hole or crook







or whatever in this place. So I find that very interesting. But when I think in terms of my family, it’s an interesting family. It was eleven of us. My mom and dad had eleven kids and my dad died when I was in the third grade and all of us, all of siblings that knew dad, had a reasonably successful life to be. And I will tell you this based on the information I get sometime. We’re sitting in this one room classroom and it’s very interesting to know that all my siblings at some point sat in a building similar to this. I’m the third youngest out of the group and we had at least five of us was in this classroom and when I say this classroom, if you can look at the classroom and look at how small it is, then you can imagine how hot it was or how cold it was. It was just an interesting place. But the matriarch of our family was our mom. She finished her education in third grade, but it was important for her that all of her kids graduate. Graduate from high school and if we were fortunate, we could move on to the college experience. So we were really fortunate in that sense that she worked herself to death I guess to make sure that we understood the importance of education and the importance of being a part of what is occurring in the community. When I look at these chairs I can see my sisters and brother sitting here and it was one of these things that we talk about that, can you really teach three or four grade levels in the same building? In the same classroom? And the answer is yes. Because my older brothers and sister would come to the front and help the younger kids or help me or whatever when there was a problem or anything of that nature with the class assignment. The thing that I find so interesting about it is the number of people that were very successful that were sitting in there. We had the Pinksons and







they went on to become lawyers and things like that. We had the James family. We had the first—we have a descendent he was the first African American to play in the National Hockey League. His dad sat in this chair. We had the brother that trained the [inaudible 4:17] he was the only Triple Crown winner in Marion County, but he trained and broke a thumb. We attended all the Kentucky Derby [inaudible 4:29] and the third leg of it, the Triple Crown, we were able to do that. Had a brother that went to Tennessee State University, he played on some great teams with great people. Too tall Jones, Jefferson Joe Street Gillum, and he played on two national championships up there. Have my sisters that was nurses and then I had one sister that turned out to be a very successful counselor in mental health and things like that. I look at what we’re talking about and we look at the community, you know the community helped all of us in a sense of pride.

You know, we look at the fact that we have this thing where you couldn’t eat in a certain restaurant because you were Black or whatever, but I find that really interesting. We couldn’t eat there because we didn’t have any money. That was the biggest thing. You know we can say whatever we want to, it’s okay to say that, but I think we found a long time ago that economics is one of the key things that made us successful. I think we had people that work hard and behave and that was one of the key things. You know out of all us kids not any of us have spent any time in jail. And you know coming from a mother that was raised in [inaudible 6:11] and never remarried and keeping all her kids out of trouble and the key to our success is education. You ask me what are some of the things that we’ve done to be successful? I guess I’ve done just about everything. It’s funny







that once a sibling getting into a place they always manage to get you in. To do [inaudible 6:40] and there’s stuff about nepotism, I guess I will probably commit nepotism because I know when my sister got a job as a cook she immediately got me a job as a dishwasher and if that’s nepotism, what can I say? I got to washing dishes then after a while I got my younger brother in to do something, out on that yard and things like that. You know when my brother was working out at the thoroughbred industry; he always managed to find a summer job for us, for me and my younger brother when we came home from school. You know I don’t know what people are expecting from a story or what they expect to hear, but it is a story to me of a family that was a family. That we helped one another, we worked together, stayed together, you know I am the last of two of us so one thing about having eleven people in the family, you go to a lot of funerals so I’ve been to nine, well, nine, ten, eleven, because we’re the last two still surviving at this point. But by the same token I’m not really willing to say that’s the end of what I wanna be about. I spent forty-seven years in education. I guess I’ve been in education all my life. If you look at this little classroom here and you look at all the imaginary faces that sit there watching Mrs. Hale teach, and then you look at how education helped me through life. You know I started as a—first of all I went to Howard High School. I went from here to Howard Middle, well it was Howard Madison Street Elementary and then Howard Middle and then Howard High School and then Central Florida Community College and then the Paul Quinn College.

	H:	What was the name of the last college?







	J:	Paul Quinn.



	H:	Paul Quinn.



	J:	Q-U-I-N-N College and it’s one of the first historical Black colleges in the Midwest and you ask me, some of the people that had some impact on my life—you know I’ve been called a coach. I like to think I was able to give something back that all the coaches in my life gave to me. You know? The sense of making a difference in the community. You know that’s very important, if you give a gift, you’re not [inaudible 9:42] give and give and give and this to me this is what this is all about. I hope that I can my gift will lead something into the future for somebody else.

You know I was at a funeral yesterday, Saturday, for one of my basketball players Fred Indina and it was amazing the number of kids that came and spoke nice things about him. But all of them had this thing where Coach James had something to do with what they were doing and that’s really neat, you know? To say I made a difference in his life. You know, I can talk about all kind of little deep things, but you know as you get older these stories get longer [laughter].

	H:	[Laughter] Let me back you up if I could, you started off talking about your mother. What do you know about her and her history cause obviously she had some pretty strong values and some pretty strong expectations and hopes for all of her kids, what do you know what can you tell us about her?

	T:	Well she was born down in Fairfield and her mother was killed out in the field getting out of the rain in a lightning storm. The lighting storm was coming, this was actually summer, and they were out in the pea field picking peas and they







decided to take refuge under a tree and the lightning came down, hit the tree and got everybody that was underneath it. She was one of them. That was my grandmother there. My mother married Gripper James, he was a plumber and then they lived in Fairfield for a while and then we moved over to Silver Springs. My mother, she was married and her and dad were having a good life and then he died of hypertension, high blood pressure and things like that, but before he died he moved all of us to Ocala. That mean we pulled up from here, went to Ocala, when I say Ocala I’m talking about Tucker Hill, got a nice little house—

	H:	What’s it called? Tucker Hill?



	J:	Tucker Hill. So we were over there for a while and this is where we started going from. We took this school right here, Silver Springs Elementary, then went from there to Madison Street, from there to Howard Elementary—

	H:	And Howard Elementary was then a middle school? Is that correct? J:	Howard had a middle school there—

	H:	At Howard Elementary, okay.



	J:	Rather it was two schools on the same property. H:	That’s what I meant.

	J:	So my mother had this thing, and the thing that really made her really special, she used to walk long. You’re talking about four or five miles to work everyday and you hear these stories about people walking in the morning and stuff. I could actually sit there and see my mother walking to work and then walking back







because we didn’t have a car and her thing was she had to get to work and she had to do that. Where she was working, six dollars a day I believe. And when you have all these kids and six dollars a day, that’s not a lot of money, but she made it work.

	H:	What kind of work did she do?



	J:	She was actually a dishwasher and she worked at a big restaurant down there called the Brama.

	H:	I remember the Brama.



	J:	Well if you remember the Brama she was there and there were days at certain time she would leave, wouldn’t pay for her taxes but to safe the money she’d walk from Brama down past Howard High School as you may know it now. She did it everyday and you talk about people going and paying people to go out and exercise and work hard in the gym, well she did her and she didn’t have to pay for it but she earned the fact that she was doing something for us. I could see her, see there was a little hill, and I could see her walking over the hill. We could see her coming over the hill. Then at that point everybody would jump up and clean the house up [laughter] cause we hadn’t did anything all day, but we knew when we saw her come over that hill that she was not gonna come in and be looking at a house that wasn’t cleaned so. When I think about mom, it’s one of these things that I wished a lot of people as growing up had. She had this ability to inspire and to get people to do things, you know you got guys big as I am and big as my brothers and stuff like that, what can a lady walking there, how can she







control those guys? We knew what was expected of us from her. So that’s what I was saying, you know what is expected and it’s learned at a young age and we didn’t wanna disappoint.

	H:	So is that of respect, not out of fear or punishment? J:	Right.

	[Telephone ringing] J:	Yes.

	H:	What was life like with your brothers? Before we go on past that, what was life growing up both here and in Ocala?

	J:	My brothers, we all looked out for each other. I wasn’t one of these things where you had one brother picking on another brother, it just didn’t happen that way. It was one of these things where everybody reached out and pulled out the gun. I was referring to him in here, if I had a problem with a math problem or something, those guys would help. You know, what of the things we had, all of us played football, and basketball and stuff like that and they were pretty good. All of them were ahead of me, it was pretty good. We wanted to be better, but they in turn made sure that we looked out for each other. You got a beef with one of us you got a beef with all of us. That kind of stuff. Or when the James boys showed up you know we was a—you know and just like I said I’ve had brothers that worked at Long Island arena and when I say Long Island arena in New York every summer there would be something coming from New York for us. My sisters was in Chicago, the older ones that was in Chicago every summer there







were clothes coming for school and everything else. When we went off to college out in Waco and Tennessee State and up in the [inaudible 17:76] in Indiana, they always managed to make sure that mom couldn’t send us anything but the brothers and sisters could. When I was in Waco, some of the kids just looked at how I was dressed and they say how can that boy dress like that? It was because I had a brother in New York and he was sending me the latest New York style. [Laughter]

	H:	[Laughter]



	J:	Didn’t know I was not a fan for any of that stuff they just go in there and have that. We had people that cooked cakes and I’d always have a cake or something you know? So you had a lot of people pulling for you, you know?

	H:	How about early on, you lived in Silver Springs, you came to this school, you’ve described a little bit about this school, what was life like growing up in Silver Springs?

	J:	Life like that was an interesting life. You know we wouldn’t know it was difficult because it’s what we were used to. When I say that, living up in Silver Springs meant that there was watermelons to be got, there were peas to be picked, that was just normal. You gotta remember now, I was only in the third grade so we had, I remember when it was time of year when everybody come together to kill h9ogs and stuff like that and we had chickens, all of that. We had all the normal things that a person would do.

	H:	So you had a farm then or you—







	J:	We lived on a farm.



	H:	You lived, that’s what I was wondering, you lived on a farm.



	J:	We lived on a farm and I guess my dad was a sharecropper back in the day, but he was also a plumber. So he worked in the afternoons as a sharecropper and we did what we needed to do.

	H:	Where was he a sharecropper, here in Silver Springs or up in Fairfield?



	J:	Well he was in Fairfield for a little while then we had some sharecropping down here in Silver Springs.

	H:	So he was sharecropping when you were a young child. J:	Right.

	H:	Okay.



	J:	So that’s one of the little thing that he did, but then he got to the point where he really got into plumbing. I can remember going with him to various job assignments and stuff like that. You know working as a plumber, I know my older brother thought that was the worst thing in the world, but I’d come around and they’d be pulling all that stuff out of the toilet and all that stuff, you know they said I was terrible, but now I look back at it because dad wanted to have Gripper James and Son plumbing company. But all the guys boy they couldn’t get out of here fast enough. [Laughter] So they ended up going to New York and stuff like that and when dad died the plumbing company died and I hate to think about where we would be if we would have stayed with the plumbing company. Before







then when he was sharecropping and you talked about picking peas and watermelons, that was on the landowner’s property then?

	J:	Yeah.



	H:	And did he ever own his own property then? In Silver Springs?



	J:	No we didn’t own any property here this is why we ended up buying a house in Ocala.

	H:	And you said in third grade you were helping. Tell us about that, you were helping in the fields at third grade?

	J:	Well you always helped out a little bit in the field, whatever you could do you did. Whether it was picking up the pick peas taking them to central point. You could do something. You know, you gotta earn your keep and we learned from that from a long time.

	H:	What kind of relationship did your family have with the property owner’s family?



	J:	Actually they were good people, you know, they were really good people. They were doing what they needed to do to survive. I love to think that everybody is good. I ‘m sure that there is some people that didn’t have a good experience working with other people, that was never one of our downsides. Everybody kind of respected each other back in the day.

	H:	Did you have any relationship with the landowner’s kids, did he have kids as well?

	J:	We didn’t have any, I didn’t.







	H:	Did not, okay.



	J:	Don’t have any knowledge of that. But by the same token my older brothers and sisters may have, but from there we moved on to Ocala and that’s history.

	H:	And how about Paradise Park? Did you have any experiences there?



	J:	We went to Paradise Park, we enjoyed Paradise Park just like everybody else. It was a good summer outing. You know the thing that I will say is that maybe I lived in a bubble or somewhere, but I’ll tell you being a athlete and having a athletic family, those was perks in my day.

	H:	And plus having a mother that cared and had expectations of you.



	J:	Right and when I say those are perks, you know, I can go in the cafeteria and somebody would give me an extra biscuit, you know? Oh that’s Bobby he’s playing ball tonight he needs his strength so I get an extra biscuit or two, you know? You know if they had something extra they would call and if somebody needed something done around the house they would say okay these guys are honest and all that, have the James boys come over and do it, you know? And being able to typify some things, you know I have this philosophy and I just re- found it, “[Inaudible 23:43] things happen.” See that imply, to me and everybody else, we went to school. Even though we may not have had anything to eat and mom would always make sure the younger kids got some money for lunch and the older kids had to wait till they get home.

	H:	And you were one of the privileged younger children.







	J:	Oh yeah and the older kids would make sure when mom was going to work that we would clean and neat before we go to school because that was the expectation. You know I had a good childhood and I know people that’s a little older than I am will talk about the tough times they had and I’m sure there were a lot of tough times, but I will tell you when the lights turned off in the neighborhood we had to be home. We could go down there and play basketball and do whatever we want to but she said I won’t come down and come pick you guys up from jail or anywhere like that ‘cause I know what I expect of you.

	H:	And speaking of lights, you had electricity in your house, is that correct? J:	In Ocala?

	H:	I meant out here in Silver Springs. J:	No.

	H:	Did not.



	J:	We has uh—I still got some of those lamps—



	H:	Kerosene lamps. Hoe about plumbing, did you have plumbing? J:	We had outside plumbing.

	H:	Okay, so you had a well?



	J:	We had a pump. A pump like that one sitting out there in front of the— H:	A hand pump?







	J:	A hand pump. So when I think in terms of that, I’m looking at I’ll be seventy-two.



You know there was a lot going on before I realized what was going on, you know? I remember stories being told to us, you know, and it’s always interesting that the stories that are told usually have some truth in them. I think one of the key things, just like you asked, have I ever been refused service? Oh yeah. And then you say “Well did ya’ll ever go to the Florida Theater when you had to sit up in the upper balconies and it was segregated?” Yeah I did. You know, by the same token when I look at the people [inaudible 26:15] people were dealing with a lot of their fears. You know I went out to, when I left Howard I went to Central Florida Community College and it was a basketball team out there and the mascot for the team was the rebels and I asked some of them, my friends, how can you play for the rebels man? [Laughter] Do you know what that means? I decided to quit. Then my coach came up to me and he said, “Bobby you’re not gonna play for us?” I said coach I can’t play for the rebels. He said, “You know Bobby, that mean to rebel. It don’t necessarily mean all that stuff that people telling you about it. It mean they were rebelling against something. You cannot play [inaudible27:17-27:21]” I said “Okay coach. I’ll take your word for it” ‘cause he had a demeanor similar to what you have. And I played for him and before I played for them they hadn’t won a game in two years. So we won some games and it was just an amazing story in the sense that we became very close. If I pick him up the phone right now and speed dial him—the thing that he did was he brought up a reality into life. He was the guy that said “When you leave him Ima make sure you go to school somewhere as you get another two or three year







scholarship.” And he did. He was the person that took me down to the train station and saw me off getting toward Waco. Every summer when I come home and he would be at the Junior College, he was the one that told me some of the hardships that he had to endure to keep us on the team.

	H:	Because you weren’t the only one that wanted to quit, or because of what? Why was that difficult for him?

J:  Because the plan on the team was the easy part, but it was the administration and people up in the administration. You gotta remember we had just the end term, and you had people that would remember the old days.

H:   This just began to turn integration, in other words?



	J:	Yeah they were just now getting used to it. I remember—let me finish that story. You know, when I say that to you, he was one of the coaches that came out the [inaudible 29:11] Mississippi to watch me play. He drove all the way out there just to watch me play.

	H:	From here after you left his team just to watch you?



	J:	At [inaudible 29:26] Mississippi. And when he got out there the coach wouldn’t let me play. [Laughter] see I was starting, show you how the thing is so aggravating. He was the only White guy sitting up in the stand and I was starting before coach showed up. Coach showed up here, he didn’t let me play and then when I was talking with coach [inaudible 29:51] he said “Bobby I don’t understand this. I know you’re better than these guys, why are you not playing?” I said “Coach I usually play but tonight he was not.” And coach said, “Well, get your education







son, you get your education.” He left and then the next night the coach came and started me again like I was supposed to and for the life of me I think it bothered my old coach. Not the one that came to see me, the one that didn’t play me for a long time because that was just meanness. That was just a meanness or had some type of animosity or whatever. You know.

	H:	If your coach had been Black would that have made a difference? Did that have something to do with his—

	J:	Oh yeah.



	H:	Okay, that’s what I was wondering.



	J:	Oh yeah I think that was the only reason.



	H:	But he knew that he had driven all the way out there?



	J:	He was the only White person in there and he was my coach. Why would he come this way?

	H:	Wow.



	J:	And so when you look at all of this I think I was best in the sense that I knew they were good people. Whether Black, White, I knew they were good people, you know? So when I look at things like that I feel that it didn’t tarnish me because I knew that guy was a good person, my coach we probably go get drunk somewhere afterwards. But it was alright, we worked out and we—

	H:	You had people standing up for you. Starting with your mom and your brothers and your family and teachers and coaches after that is what it sounds like.







	J:	Yeah I had a good run. You know, and what I think in terms of what we do sometimes, we have to in turn give back, you know? That’s like one of our big things I have always said as a coach and teacher. I wouldn’t send a kid to school that I didn’t visit and say—when I had the opportunity to be a coach, in one of those things where you look at the fact that you want to make sure you have an impact on what is occur. I am sure a lot of people will say you have a lot of reasons to be upset. No I don’t. I am blessed. When I say I am blessed, you look at me now, forty-seven years, reasonably healthy, I had a wonderful family, I had an opportunity. I’m the only person in Marion County got a key to this building [keys jingling]. Because it made a difference in so many lives.

	H:	And that’s from your connection—we haven’t talked a whole lot about your career, but you were a coach, you were a principal, you were a school board member, you were—I don’t know how many different positions you had with the county, but this school here, when did you get the key and when did they move this school here?

	J:	Well I got the key when I got a retirement reception that we had there for me. So we had a real good turn out of all the people that I been around [inaudible 33:20] and I think they moved the school here about ten, eleven years ago. So it’s one of these things where you think that the life that you live is making a difference to somebody, just like Miss Hagenson, think the world of her. But she gave me a good foundation in teaching, you know?

	H:	So she was one of your teachers?







	J:	No she was the administrator and she worked out in the county office and she did—

	H:	But she was doing staff development I think.



	J:	You’re right, you look at how they do stuff and you know there’s a lot of people and I look at the people, if you wanna look at a great people I had [inaudible 34:06]. I had a great coach over there and a mentor and they said to me—we were at a game or at practice, whatever—and he said “Bobby now look at all these kids standing around out here that’s not playing football, but they’re still here.” He said, “When you finish with this school, I want you finished with this school. I don’t want you coming back up here watching practice or watching what I’m doing and stuff like that. Don’t leave anything out here. Call me before you come, but I don’t want you standing around on this field.” He said that was an indication that they left something here. “You didn’t leave anything here, it’s just another step for you to move on.”

	H:	He wanted you to carry those lessons forward. Do the same for other folks that he had some for his players.

	J:	Right, but he didn’t wanna see me standing on the sideline helping out and all that stuff, no. It was time for me to move on. You know, there’s so much in the stories that I have to tell. You have to be specific in you wanna know in detail on stuff.







	H:	Tell me, just as you have told us, a couple of folks that have made a difference in your life. Can you tell a story or two about some of the folks who’s lives you’ve impacted the same way, or in a different way?

	J:	The stories of people that have an impact on me or the story about what I’ve impacted—

	H:	I’m thinking specifically of somebody who’s life you have impacted doing the same kind of thing that those other folks did for you.

	J:	You know, boy that’s a lot.



	H:	[Laughter] From what I hear there are thousands of folks out there who attribute a good deal of their success to you. So I know it would be hard to pick one or two but—

	J:	You know one of the things I said at Richard Roberts funeral that I had up in from of Dina at his funeral on Saturday, I coached three pros, one of them American, but the thing that I would say that those kids ever manage to get into the NBA and play overseas and became all American, they were great kids. Tremendous individuals, but Richard Roberts was a kid that didn’t have all those skills, but he worked harder than they did. He was a little kid that’s 6’3, would work hard, play hard, and anything you would ask him to do as an individual. The thing that I will say to again, the thing that he got is that he had a loyalty. He had a loyalty that was unbelievable and when I say you give an example of it, he came down here at this reception that they had Silver River Museum for my retirement and he was dying of cancer. When he drove down here he said, “Coach I’m okay, I’m okay,







I’m okay.” But he had to be here. He had an incredible sense of loyalty that he spoke at the reception here. These are the kind of kids that were indeed special. His loyalty, his love for his team, his innate ability. You know I had this saying come to school, work hard, and behave and if you’re properly places good things will happen. He went to Florida A&M, I remember going to see him at Florida A&M. Then he decided that was not for him so he ended up being a deputy, sheriff for the [inaudible 38:23] deputy police man. Then he went to Anheuser Bush and he worked at the brewery and this was his niche. When he was at the brewery and I came over to visit him and he was so proud of having me walk through this place and answering as his coach and his mentor his dad, to all of his fellow coworkers. And when you walk around Anheuser Bush and you see how big that place is and the fact that he had made up his mind that this is what he wanted to do. He was working at the brewery and he finished at the brewery, had a good retirement for his family and he in turn was given back a big church funeral for him. So proud of him. It’s like I said to me, “Richard I just wish I could tell you to suck it up and you would get up, but I know that’s true.” I asked Richard when I talked with him to leave a light on for us because of his loyalty and his friendship, ya’ll know that somebody got a light there for you. So these are the kinds of kids that I got. I’ve got so many. I’m doubly proud of my son and when I look at him sometimes I think I may have over nurtured him, you know.

You know he got [inaudible 39:58] to me and I wondered sometimes what will happen when old dad is not around to come over somewhere and then he can go







do his thing. I hope this is coming out right because he’s an incredible young man to me.

	H:	If, and I don’t know how this fits in the interview but I went to a retirement party in Gainesville, you’re probably aware of Denise Van [inaudible 40:31]

	J:	Right.



	H:	That he refers to his home away from, his family away from family, his second family, his adopted family and he gave a speech attributing to Miss Van [inaudible 40:47] and to the whole family thanking them for the folks they were for him and the inspiration they provided for him. So I thought of you when I was watching him and I’m thinking wouldn’t you be proud to hear this speech, it wasn’t a speech it was a testimony I guess you would say and you couldn’t have been more proud of him at that moment. I wish you had heard that. I’m sure he has spoken to that family before but it sounds like you have lived out the dream your mother had for you and for your family and your son Bevin is living out that same dream that you have for him. He is so well loved at his school up there and my grandkids go there so I see him every time I go visit my grandkids and everybody’s going, “Hey coach, hey coach.” He hears the same words from his kids that you heard from your kids and whether he sees himself as walking in your footsteps I don’t know but it certainly looks that was when I see him and when I listen to you talk about who he is.

	J:	You know I say this and I know that there is a lot of really good things that I can contribute but if I had to give a message to young people, or anybody, I would







like for them to focus in the fact that education is the greatest equalizer in the world. I don’t care whether you go to China, go to Africa, education, this one room school that we are sitting in today had such a tremendous impact on people’s lives. Even if they were here from the first grade and only attended through third grade, because my mother only attended through the third grade at [inaudible 43:00] school. But she had to get out of there and go to work and she knew how important it was for people to be able to read and write and things like that and she wanted all of her kids to do that. When I look at the things and the injustices and all of that stuff that we have had, the thing I’m gonna tell you is if I could encourage people to go to school, to work hard, behave, and look for their proper place and that’s what I would preach. I think in terms of this all the time of what we try and do and to me that’s the key. Economics and all of that will come if you got a good education. You will learn how to count your money, or count your trees, or whatever you’re doing if you have a good education. You know I think I’m talking about philosophical things and stuff, but in terms of walking in and telling you, I think this water is cold, rather than you stick your hand in it and say “Oh this water is cold cause I feel it!” I know there have been some injustices since the seventies, some odd years that I’ve been there, only thing I can do is make people aware of those injustices and try and improve on the lot—let me put it that way, the hand people have been dealt. You know the hardest thing I felt as a principal is when I had exchange students come to my school. It was easier for me to get an exchange student into a home of some of our parents at our school. They could be from anywhere if they were an exchange student, than it was for







me to get them to accept a kid that had a problem at their house at Thanksgiving. They all had nice [inaudible 45:19]. They had a problem getting someone to take her in for a couple of days than it was for me to get an exchange student.

	H:	Because of color?



	J:	Because of color, and I think that this is one of the biggest things that I find that I could get exchange students, I would have a waiting list, but how many kids from Tampa had to go and visit at a parents house?

	H:	So it sounds like, and you said you were living in a bubble and you had privilege and perks I guess was your word, you were quite aware of prejudice and discrimination. How did you teach your son and how did you teach your students to deal with that? Clearly you found a way yourself, but how do you talk to somebody who’s living under that discrimination? Who’s dealing with that prejudice, who do you in your words coach them to deal with it successfully like you did?

	J:	You know you might have figured this one out. H:	[Laughter]

	J:	When we were walking to the schoolhouse, every morning we would walk to the schoolhouse and we had this pasture and it had palmettos on both sides and there was a cow trail right down the middle and it had that pretty White sand.

Lady came out and she said, “Hey the cows in there now, ya’ll gotta stay out of that pasture. Ya’ll gotta stay out of that pasture. There’s cows in there, some bulls in there.” And sure enough I said well, it’s just too hard walking around this







field and all these bushes in here and suddenly my mind says, [inaudible 47:24] goes down that path. Why we don’t go down there today? Stay outside of the fence. I had a plan on how to deal with all this stuff. I said, now if I’m out in the middle of this field, if I’m walking down this path and I see these cows coming I’m not gonna run and hide in the pet lettuce. So some said I was rude coming home one day and I said, “Don’t go in the fields.” My brother and sister had already been home, but had been late as usual. Said, “Don’t go in there.” So I decided to walk on the outside of the fence even though the bushes was higher and that’s when I saw the biggest [inaudible 48:06] bull. And you know where he was walking? He was walking in the palmettos and that told me that you gotta have enough sense to know when there’s a [inaudible 48:19] bull that specialize in walking through palmettos. He would’ve found me. And when I look at all these prejudices and stuff, there’s a lot of palmettos. The palmettos are like the prejudice that you feel. Sometimes you can just walk down the middle of them and you don’t get stuck, but you gotta know when to step on the outside of those things because they gona have people that gone disregard all the norms that you thought you did. See those bulls didn’t care nothing about those palmettos. When I look at racial prejudice, it’s something like walking down that field. Some days you gone have clear sailing. Some days you’ll need to walk around the palmettos, and some days you’ll need to know where the bull is. And when I say this to you, all the prejudice and the people that help and all the smooth sailing, as a person you gotta be able to navigate those fields. I don’t know whether I answered your question.







	H:	I guess you answered it for yourself but it sounds like that story and stories like it are how you would coach perhaps your son, your players, your students to approach similar kinds of situations. In other words, you would, by telling that story or stories similar you would convey to them how you navigated around that prejudice or those situations.

	J:	Right, and this is how it is. You know, what I think in terms of where we are and where we’re going, each story is an individual story. All I know is one thing, education is the key to resolving a lot of these problems and this is why I think it’s so important, even in dealing with prejudice. You gone find some bigoted people. Just like that bull, that bull couldn’t care less, that’s what he was. And for me to go out there and say, “I’m gonna go ahead and change that bull.”

	H:	[Laughter]



	J:	I might go out here and [Laughter]



	H:	The Bull is who he is and you gotta deal with him— J:	I might eat a hamburger when we go back. [Laughter]

	H:	But he is who he is so you avoid the bull when you can.



	J:	Right and then if I have—if it get to the point where I have to make a hamburger out of him. [Laughter] I ain’t fooling with him. [Laughter]

	H:	That’s—that is a good story right there and I think like you said stories like that teach lessons a whole lot more than just a sermon about what to do and what not to do is what—







	J:	Yeah its things that make up your life like that to me. You know I was going through Houston and I’ll tell you there’s a—I was—had figured it out you know. When I was going out there to [inaudible 00:51:32] and parkland college was one of the premier schools and we had this premier chess team I think you may have heard of. Lot of good things happened out at Parkland college and as we go through Texas and stuff and all these things something on—building up in Texas really made me stop and think about what people are and how people are. If fit you, it fit anybody, it fit my mom it fit everybody. And it was coming off of a beer commercial. Education is funny, when you reach stuff, it was coming off a beer commercial. Pearl Beer and it said “Everybody makes it in their own way.

Doing what they can the best they can. It’s getting through a tough day is making it in your own way. Everybody makes it that’s the key.” And you know I love that. I love it in the sense that when I say people like to size ‘em up and try to figure out what they’re about. I think about that commercial, that person is making it his own way.

	H:	Mhmm.



	J:	Doing what they can the best they can. H:	Mhmm.

	J:	And after that [inaudible 00:52:53]



	H:	I can’t think of a better message and—think the education is a tough one because not all folks are athletes like you where with the perks some folks don’t







have those same opportunities but they have to find their own I guess is what your message is.

	J:	Right.



	H:	If its not athletics then whatever it is they’ve gotta find where they’re opportunities are and take advantage of them. I guess is what you’re saying.

	J:	And that’s true and once you get inside the door then there’s a lot of opportunities there. You’re in the daylight. You know athletics is fine but I got bad knees and a hip and I’m walking with a cane. Gotta go up here—that’s alright that’s the price you pay. But I look at all the things that occurred in my lifetime I think if I had to sum these things up, its family. When its all said and done, its family. If you don’t have a family, [inaudible 00:53:57] fiber. You gotta have this thing that you believe. You know you gotta believe in god. You gotta believe that there’s a divine being. Something to help you. You gotta believe in a good moral standard. And I think I was looking at this thing one time it said “I don’t curse, I don’t talk bad about people and I expect them to do it to me [inaudible 00:54:26]” And I thought it was interesting, because its important—like this conversation to me that you you’d tell people you’ve met Bobby James. What that mean to you, whatever you want it to mean. You know friends come and go, enemies accumulate. [Laughter] You know that’s just basically how it is.

	H:	Well it sounds like your friends have come but it doesn’t sound like they’ve gone. Other than the ones that have moved one though death. It sounds like you keep up with your friends and or your friends keep up with you is what I’m hearing.







	J:	Well I like to think that you know. Because as far as the analysis if I had to borrow a dollar or two I don’t know who I would ask. Simply because I might lose a friend. That’s the thing, I hope I’ve answered your question.

	H:	Oh you’ve answered my questions well I could ask a bunch more I’ve got a long list here but I think—we’ve got a picture of who you are. What we don’t have is a list of all of your achievements, I think they’re well documented around the county[Laughter] they’re well documented in the newspaper articles. I think they’re well documented. I’m sure they are well spoken at your retirement, to think that you had somebody come all the way down from Fernandina beach and I bet some others came from a distance themselves.

	J:	Oh yeah they did, what made the ritual so special. Because see, over the years I’d been in Fernandina he always managed to call me when he got in a tight spot or whatever. And he knew he was dying but he felt that it was important for him to drive down here. And the thing about it next morning when I was eating breakfast with him. I said “Richard why didn’t you tell me you were staying in town you could have stayed at the house.” He said “Cause I didn’t want to put y’all out.” I said “We got all these bedrooms but you didn’t wanna put us out.” He said “No I didn’t wanna put us out.” Cause he was taking medication and medicine and he might get sick or something like that. And to me when you heard of a kid do stuff like that “Don’t wanna put you out.” That’s a story in itself and I’m so proud of him just like he was. People would wonder why I wasn’t really sad much at his funeral and they were having a hard time with it. See because I knew Richard I knew Richard would not have wanted for them to be







doing that. He’d be wanting for me to tell them to “Suck it up guys. Sun’s gonna come up tomorrow.” And he’d leave the light on for you. And see that’s what he would have wanted to say to ‘em. He’ll leave a light on for ‘em. Now in terms of accomplishment, you know I was—if you look at some of things that I was for— first African American head coach in a major sport in Marion County. I was coach of at Forest Wildcat at—okay I was first African American high school Principal in an integrated setting. These are all in integrated settings.

	H:	And what school was that?



	J:	That was at [inaudible 00:58:12] first African American as a high school secondary teacher. I was the first uh—

	H:	Where was that as the secondary teacher? Was that at Howard then or was that at Vanguard?

	J:	No, no, no, no. Principal then. H:	Oh okay I didn’t know.

	J:	Now I was the…first African American ever even elected county wide to a position in Marion County as a schoolboard. I served as the chairman of the schoolboard for three years—for three terms. And then what else? I’m sure I got some other stuff in there.

	H:	Pardon me?



	J:	I’m sure I got some other stuff that’s in there.



	H:	Well what you have are the people who knew you in all of those positions.







	J:	Yeah.



	H:	Who you mentored who probably as much as anything else who you set an example for. Whether you—

	U:	Good Morning!



	J:	Good Morning!



	U:	I’m here to deliver some lunch for the kids, do I deliver it this way? J:	Go up straight ahead over there.

	U:	Okay, thank you.



	J:	Mhmm.



	H:	Yeah the stories that I hear and the stories that where told in the newspaper I think are folks whose names you might not eve know but but—because of the way you served and because of the example you set like Devin I don’t know how many stories he could tell me—like your mother it was who your mother was and what her values were. It wasn’t necessarily what she did day to day that made a difference in your life. It sounds [beeping noise in the background] like that’s the kind of role that you played with so many of your players and so many of your students.

	J:	Right. Well the people that you—have mentioned—have talked to they’re good people. And I listened that Mr. James I look at Loreta Jenkins and all those people. See I was principal of Pheasant as well and if you really wanna know some stories about—have you been up to Pheasant.







	H:	I’ve been there years ago I was juvenile probation counselor it was my first experience at Pheasant. I had a student who got in trouble at Howard and had to change schools so they sent him up to Pheasant and his parents actually moved from Ocala up there so he could go to Pheasant. I had a number of experiences there as a Juvenile probation counselor in the early [19]70s so and then I’ve been there several times since then but I’ve also heard some stories about Pheasant.

	J:	Well when I got my first Principalship it was at the Pheasant school you know my days always start with the sun. Always rising and setting at Howard High school until I got to know what Pheasant was about. Pheasant was born—was built in 1868 it probably was one of the model schools of it time. It had so much to offer—it gave so much. Everything from a post office to a train station to dormitories central heating and air. You have an alumni association that is alive and well. You know when I look at the Pheasant history that really tells the sort of what could have been here. Pheasant could have easily been the Florida A&M University, it could have easily been there because of the size of the campus at one time. You know—I was researching I look at the vocational programs that they had. Chemistry and all those things it was an amazing school it was an amazing history. So when I look at myself and compare to those things that belong here its neat. I’m sure Loretta Jenkins [inaudible 01:02:30] can probably tell you more about that. But I actually went up on the roof to see what was up there. And I looked behind a curtain I looked at Fernad Pheasant and I







know that they have another place up in Massachusetts that was established by his brother and all that. It was an interesting story.

	H:	Was it one of the Rosenwald schools? J:	I believe so.

	H:	Okay, that when you said there was another one. I knot there was a number of schools around the country that were Rosenwald schools. So I didn’t know whether Pheasant was one of those—and it was a boarding academy is what I understand. And you were principal there before Loretta Jenkins is what I’m assuming.

	J:	Right. So I’ve been around [Chuckles] well I hope I’ve answered your questions.



	H:	You have answered my questions let me formally close this out I definitely wanna get some pictures inside of your old school and maybe get some recommendations from you after we close out the interview of some other folks I can talk with. But I thank you Mr. James for your time today and we’ll close this guy out.

[End of interview]



	Transcribed by:	Kasamba Kokayi March 30 ,2021 Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, April 1, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, April 6, 2021