AAHP 484B; Nelson; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 484B John Nelson Interviewed by Toni Lee Maitler on June 18, 2017

42 minutes | 20 pages



Abstract: In this interview, John Nelson recalls his time as the president of the NAACP from 1986 to1992. Mr. Nelson speaks about voting rights, the Ted Turner case, as well as the fact that as Black organization, he and members had to push to achieve anything.



He also recounts receiving a charter in order to get a legitimate Veterans of War in Jefferson County back in 2001, and would succeed in maintaining one due to the fact that they only needed twenty-five members, whereas they had fifty. After becoming the commander to the group, he soon was elected as District Commander of nine different counties, ranging from Liberty County, West Florida, Hamilt0on County, and just below Lake City.



Keywords: [African American History Project, Veterans of War, Jefferson County, NAACP, Ted Turner, Black district commander]



AAHP 484B

Interviewee: John Nelson Interviewer: Toni Lee Maitler Date: June 18, 2017



	M:	Ok, so it is Toni Lee Maitler. Today is June 18, 2017 and we are here with Mr. John Nelson to discuss more about his experiences in Civil Rights work. So Mr. Nelson, can you just start off by telling us about NAACP [National Association for the Advancement of Colored People] and your work and what you accomplishment?

	N:	All right. It’s around the NAACP. And I started, kinda following the NAACP as a high schooler in the eleventh grade. They used to have marches and mass meetings here in Jefferson County. That was an early part of the [19]60s, as you know, in the [19]60s that is when a lot of changes came about. Integration and all those kind of things. And so we would have the mass rallies at the church on this side of town, we call it the Rooster town, at Memorial Missionary Baptist Church, where people would gather together. There would be five to six hundred people gathering to listen to speakers. People like attorney John Due, who’s very prevalent in the state of Florida. The former Mayor of Tallahassee, who was an attorney then, civil rights attorney. Kent Sprigs would come and they would basically give speeches to talk about changes coming about and so I was one of those high schoolers who were somewhat listening and uh, very kinda questionable as to what was happening. I knew that we were a segregated school at that time. African American people couldn’t attend what we call the all- White school which was Jefferson County High. We were Howard Academy. And so I began to follow the Civil Right Movement, the NAACP, the Commerce of Racial Equality which was CORE and the Voter Registration group. And so it





really didn’t affect me then because I went on ahead and graduated from high school in 1966. And of course, after going to college and the military, I really saw first-hand some of the things that really affected African American people. So when I came back, to Jefferson County in the [19]80s, 1987, I was always involved with NAACP. I was a card carrying member and so in 1986, I decided to run for the president of the NAACP and won and became the president of the NAACP here. The branch here had always been about one hundred-twenty to one hundred twenty-five members and of course, with my leadership skills and my abilities, I decided that I was going to do more and I put on a membership campaign. And—between 1986 and 1988, we became the largest small county branch in the state of Florida with over eight hundred members.

	M:	From one hundred to eight hundred. That is amazing.



	N:	From one hundred to over eight hundred members. And of course, we became a force in the state of Florida with that kind of numbers and we started challenging a lot of things here. One of the few things I did and worked close with the Concerning Our People which was another community based organization that I helped organize. I wrote their bylaws and constitutions and all of that. And of course, we utilized the Concerning Our People, where and when we couldn’t get things done through the national office and the state office because we had a lot of red tape to go through and when we needed immediate results we did that.

But really the most significant thing that happened in the NAACP was when we actually challenged the Ted Turner situation here because people in the South and in the county were deprived of their rights to have electrical power to their





houses. They had no power at all and some did other things. They created direct current through batteries and of course by doing that they created their own electrical power called DC current instead of AC current. And so I met with those folks who were home owners and what we ended up doing we filed through the Florida Public Service Commission because the Electrical Co-op represented people in the rural area and they were telling folks that they could have electrical power but it would cost anywhere from $30,000 to $50,000 dollars when the Electrical Co-op was funded by the federal government and it was for all citizens in the rural, who wanted to be a member they didn’t have to pay any fees whatsoever and I knew that and they were just giving them those bill of goods.

And so we ended up filling a lawsuit through the Public Service Commission. Ironically, the attorney who got to handle the case was an attorney that was with me when I served in the state fire marshal as chief deputy and didn’t know that he had gone to the Public Service Commission for those years after I had left.

And he was the guy that was actually given the case and he and I knew one another so we were able to really communicate very well. And when he filed a lawsuit, Ted Turner headquarters was with the CNN headquarters in Atlanta and what happen the manager for this region. Ted has about three thousand some acres property in the south and Jefferson County. So he flew from Atlanta in his plane to Monticello quite often in his land. He has an air strip out there, and of course, you know, being a billionaire and wealthy man he well wanted to control that whole area. There were eight families that had eight hundred pretty close to nine hundred acres of property in the prime area of the plantation that they





owned that he was depriving those folks from getting some of the basic utilities that they needed. So that is why we took him to court. Because he didn’t have the right to deprive them but he would utilizing that he refused to give the right of way to access a line across his property to get to his other people property. And of course, that case was litigated for about a year and a half and there was a big article in the Tallahassee Democrat that said let there be light and we won that case. And the way we won the case, it was real interesting, First Edition, you probably hear about it now it’s a news agency that came out. It was a very young news agency similar to CNN. CNN was not a very recognized. CNN received its recognition when it handled the Olympics. That was in this area some years ago and that is how CNN received its status. But we brought First Edition in because we knew that if we could get another news agency to challenge Ted and to show him up, we thought it would be a good idea. It was a good strategy to make him start looking at relenting in giving in to some things. So when First Edition interviewed those folks in the south and in the county that had those nine hundred acres of property, they were able to focus that these folks own they own property but they were denied access to have electrical power because Turner didn’t want it to come across his property. And so CNN, I mean that First Edition showed that to the nation. And so what happened was that when Ted Turner learned about that he said “Oh, just gone show me up. Here I am a news agency too here I am a billionaire, I got thousands of acres and I am depriving people of nine hundred acres,” and so after a year and a half we won the case. And of course the people now have lights since 1990 and they have been. They own





their property and, of course, some of them have died out but some of the kids still own their property down there. But that was a monumental that case we won. The other situation is that we have the school here where integration came in 1970. It was after I graduated and then came back but what was going is we had 48 percent population of African American people and Hispanics in this community. There were less than two percent of the entire teachers in the school system that were African American. And so we presented that statistical data to the public and we challenged, first of all, we challenged the superintendent. That we did a diplomatic sit down, you need to make a difference in the education system because you are the education leader. And of course he refused to do that. And so we said there’s no other way to do it than really file a law suit. And of course in the midst and interest of doing that, they decided to reach a settlement where we can try to do some things differently. So they started hiring more African American teachers, we started making a difference in the school system and of course, the thing about Jefferson County, back then and, by the way, state championships were always played at the University of Florida on the field there and this community has won six state football championships and had about eight track championships, basketball so athletics and academically one year it was honored by the governor because of we had the highest grade per capita in the state of Florida for students and of course this county has produces and enormous amount of P.H.D’s, medical doctors that are very prevalent prominent now in the state of Florida and so I would say that a lot of that came out as a of result of challenging the education system and of course the NAACP went on to





the county. At one time this county had no African American on the board. The city had no people on it and so our challenge created the first African American because we were at large voting so because of the increase in our voting numbers, when you at forty-eight percent although that is almost is almost half. When a lot of people can’t vote or won’t go to the pole because of low turnouts you, then you can’t win. And so, we actually challenged through a lawsuit and through the NAACP and citizens seem to remember this. And so in 1984 prior to my becoming president of the NAACP which I was involved with it. That lawsuit was taken by some attorney out in Miami and of course the whole state of Florida challenged the at large voting system and we were one of those counties who became single member district. So the way the judge ruled that we would have two predominately Black districts, two other white districts and one as a toss-up. And so that’s after 1984 that’s what we went with, but as far as the Board of County Commissioners, we have never been able win but one seat. See because of people turnout and everything. Even the election that passed in 2014, we had for the first time to get three African American commissioners on the board, but yet in still is only one seat. People just didn’t turn out to vote. And people that were heavily favored just didn’t win. Now the school board, we always had three and as same today we have three African Americans of the school board but we just never could think there would be a reciprocal type of effort with the county commission but for some reason, people just didn’t vote like that. So—that’s my wife there. But anyway, those are some of the things and we continued to challenge even today. The NAACP is not functional in the county





because a few years ago, our, we that eight hundred and something members that was a lackadaisical effort of the president of the branch. So it declined below required the fifty members needed to maintain a charter. So we lost, unfortunately, we lost the charter. And there are trying to get it back now but during my heyday 1986 to 1992 when I functioned as the president we were able to generate a lot of monumental firsts. From getting the first African American elected to the board of County Commissioners to getting the first African American elected to city council. And of course the school board already had at least one but then after some of the things we were able to do, we were able to get three members elected and in most cases even today the chair of the school board is an African American person. So those are just some of the things that we accomplished as a NAACP leader. And Of course today I still behind the scene, organizing our, as I have mentioned I am working out with the Southern League Council out of Gainesville and the advancement project for some lawyer think tank out Washington D.C because we are not satisfied with the challenge to become the first county in the state of Florida to take the public school system to cut it and convert it to a charter system. And of course I have been in consultation with Dr. Ortiz and he has given me data to show that, charter schools, they are not a good for fit for low income African American, Hispanic students in what we call a community that is not necessarily up to other communities as far as financial and everything. There is a term used in the state of Florida, they call it the “repressive community” which means that we have a lot wealthy people living here. A lot of wealthy plantation owners in Jefferson County





but the overall public population is not to that same level of wealth. So it becomes a repressive community where by economic development, jobs and other things are not available for people to work where they can make a fair living and everything. So we work to try to kinda correct those kind of things.

	M:		So I notice what when you were talking about those things, you stressed an importance of representation, whether it be in business or in education system. So what are some other benefits of having like some back interest in seeing someone like you in power or as a teacher. What are some other benefits that you can, that you see or you can attest to?

	N:	Well one of the things that I take our pride in, veterans. One of the things that you’ll find there are African American Veterans especially World War II, Korean War veterans. When they completed their service in the military and they were put out, they got out, people like Frank Daniels that you were interviewing this morning, they had no idea benefits available to them. Nobody ever told them they were eligible for medical benefits or if they were, there was a service connection, as far as an injury, while you were in the military that you are wounded, they had medical conditions, and once they got out, they were not told. Although, by law every county has to have a service officer and the job description of the service officer is a person who is paid by the county out of tax payer dollars they are supposed to seek out those veterans and provide them with information that is related to what their benefits are and it changes. Even with the Trump administration, they are trying to some veteran’s benefits know all those kind of things. Take away some and all of that. So I was able to, as a veteran to go to





Orlando become certified as a service officer to function and function and the other thing that was really interesting is that the veteran organization did not allow African American to become member even the Veterans of Foreign Wars,

V.F.W. American Legion, they had separate organizations. There was nowhere a Black Veterans of Foreign Wars in Jefferson County. And there was two American Legion post here. One was Black. One was White. And so after I came back here to live in Jefferson County, after living in other areas, Orlando. So I came back here and residing here, I said, “Oh I need to make some changes.” And so I organized the Veterans of Foreign Wars in 2001. The state commander came here, who was the first African American State Commander in the state of Florida, in 2000. That was Eugene Lasure. And he called me and I didn’t know who Eugene Lasure was and he said, “You have about three hundred something Black veterans in Jefferson County, but none of them are members of the V.F.W.” I said, “No we can’t join the V.F.W here.” So he and his assistant which was the State Surgeon, Harris, Dave Harris came to Jefferson County. We had breakfast at one of the churches. And He said, “No, the bylaws and constitution say that you can discriminate.” I said, “That no one ever told us that. We just always understood that we join the V.F.W.” And so he talked with me and I said, “Tell you what. Give me the opportunity, I’ll make a difference.” So I met with some of the people from the Veterans of Foreign Wars. And see the Veterans of the Foreign Wars has a qualifying criteria. You must have been in an area of hostile fire or war to be a member of the Veterans of Foreign War. It is a very exclusive organization. It was established by the Congress of the United States





in 1893. And you can imagine from 1983 even in Florida until you didn’t have a Black who was state commander which is the top position until 2000. And so we were denied a lot of things. And so I could have joined the American Legion, but it was a separate American Legion. I said No I don’t want to do that. So I took that opportunity to organize. In 2001, I applied for a charter when there was already a V.F.W here. I applied for a separate and we were given that charter by the Kansas City which was the headquarters for the V.F.W, Kansas City, Missouri. We received our charter and the opportunity to become a legitimate Veterans of Foreign Wars here in, Jefferson County, in 2001. And so what we did was immediately after, we recruited over fifty something members in one day and we only needed twenty five just to apply for a charter. And between 2001, they elected me as the commander for the group. And between 2001 and 2002 we had over 120 something members. When the other Veterans of Foreign Wars which predominately White only had nineteen. They were all World War II veterans and they were dying out. So we became the dominate group here. And 2005, I decided to run, which was an elected position for the District Commander. And this is what this tax is now and in 2005 I ran. This district covers nine counties from Liberty County up in West Florida all the way to Hamilton County just below Lake City. And of course, at that time, they had never had an African American to be District Commander. So there was a culture shock. When I won it was a culture shock to me because I was really addressing predominately White commanders and posts and I became their commander. And so when we had our first meeting, it was in Madison County. I selected that as a site to have a





retreat because all the commanders were White. And of course I had established this group here in 2001, so we did have Black commander here. And so when we—I had the bank to underwrite the dinner in Madison. So they decided that to—I said, “We’ll call everybody here, now the first question I want to put on the table. Any one has a problem with African American leadership, you need to make a decision.” And I said, “That decision is you need to relinquish you position because I don’t want you further down the road when we start talking about our putting a plan together, a strategic plan to build this district and to set out our goals and objectives for what we are going to accomplish because we will be an All American, which is the top position that you really can achieve and that is very difficult to do.” And I said I don’t want you to get down the road and all of a sudden you have a problem with Black leadership because it won’t work”. We want to achieve our goals. And so none of the commanders—there were few had some thoughts. I said, “You need to make your mind now.” I said, “Once we end this retreat, once we layout our strategic plan, I want every person dedicated because I am the kind of leader that is, you not gone achieve your goals and objectives unless everybody participate 100 percent or more.” And they bought in. And from, it took us a year but district two, we became the second highest achieving district in the world. Just to show you how difficult it is to earn, to earn, you can earn all state with some very low credentials but to earn All American, it’s a world recognition. And only two district commanders from the state of Florida earned All American, and that was myself and another guy from Jacksonville, which is District Six. And so 2006 to 2007, I was All American





District Commander. And also 2007 to 2008, I was an All American Commander District Commander but that came about because what I did was, I went to Tallahassee which they had a post over there that had over five hundred and something members but they were limited. They didn’t want African Americans so I established another post. I chartered another post on the south side of Tallahassee, at Florida A&M University. And we created Post 12066 and that upset the leadership at the state. I said guys there is no discrimination in our constitution bylaws and you are talking about members. Why is it you don’t have members throughout the state of Florida? And what I had learned about membership in the following years is that when I land for the state surgeon which is first seat before you become state commander, you have to campaign all over the state of Florida which it create a tremendous amount of money to do that. I mean you’re in every county in the whole state of Florida. It takes months at a time campaigning from Pensacola to Miami. And so I decide to run. I lost by twenty-seven votes and that’s because normally in this region, if you are from this region, which is the low numbers. When you start talking about central and south Florida, it is very difficult to win. They never had a person to become state commander from this area. But I ran. I am one of those people that you have to show me, but I lost by twenty-seven votes. But I made an impact. What I saw when I campaigned is that the majority. I say 90 percent of your post out of two hundred something posts in the state of Florida. They are all predominately White. And I challenged them and all of those guys standing in the middle. I said “Commanders you gotta be difference makers. You got veterans all over the





state who serve and put their lives on the line and you are denying them the access to. You’re violating the constitution bylaws of the state of Florida. And a lot of post commanders didn’t like that. I said, “You are in violation of the state, of the nation constitution of bylaws by not recruiting African Americans to be member of your post.” Since that time just last year for the first time in the history in the state of Florida, you had a White female to become State Commander

	M:	So there was never a female in other part of Florida—



	N:	Never. Never. Very few posts had females. My post here, I was the leader and I established three posts. One in Gaston County which is Quincy. And all of those posts when we recruited, we recruited females, Iraq and Afghanistan veterans. I had a mixture, even the post here today. We have a mixture. Very few post throughout the state of Florida, they are normally predominately World War II and now most of them are Vietnam veterans. But you won’t find that many females.

	M:	That’s interesting.



	N:	Oh yeah, yeah. You got tremendous amount of females who served very admirably in war. They established themselves and everything. My granddaughter is a First Lieutenant today in the military. She graduated from high school, 4.0 student. In Missouri, she holds a bachelors in pre-med. She went to the ROTC and today she is a First Lieutenant at twenty-one years old.

	M:	That’s amazing.



	N:	Yeah. Twenty one years old, she is at Fort Sam Houston now working on her medical specialty degree and everything. And the military is paying for it.

	M:	That’s excellent.





	N:	But I think that a lot of my inquisitiveness about what’s going on, being a difference maker made those opportunities available because what happened is I have tutored a lot of people now who are actually moving themselves in the position to become leaders. And that’s what I even do today.

	M:	That’s—Sorry my voice is going in and out, but I think that’s great that you mentioned that because I was thinking to ask you like what are some qualities that you feel that someone should possess in order to make these things happen. Because we have a lot of people there that are in power, but literally not everyone gets things done. Like they just get, it seems like they just get into power just to have the title. But you actually went out there and were active. So what would you say someone should possess, characteristics that will have them be leaders and decision makers?

	N:	Well, well the first thing that you have to do, you gonna have a lot of opposition. And most folk don’t want to deal with adversity. They feel defeated when dealing with opposition. And when you going against the grain, you’re kind of like a minority out there. You’re going against the grain so I describe it as you have to have your K.S.A.E; Knowledge, Skills, Ability and Experience. And you got to have some backbone. You got to be able to say that regardless of what the circumstances are, I will not be defeated. I going to find a way to find a solution to the problem. And that is what leadership is all about. Some people think they are natural born leaders but leadership, leaders must be trained. There’s some natural inheritability that you have some things that you may, You take Dwight Eisenhower or those meant to be a general. But he still had to be trained. So





when you read of his history, he came up as a planner and all that. One of those people who was in the background and someone just happen to find him and said this is a great man. He was able to plan to do some things that made America great. World War II rested on the back of Dwight Eisenhower. But if he had never been taken out of the backroom and given an opportunity to showcase his skills, we may not be the country. Germany may have won the war today and instead of English the, the designated language, German may have been. If Germany would have gotten its way under Hitler, this country probably be German-speaking as the required language today. So what a person has to have and I can tell you from experience. You have to face the grain and I don’t care how many times you get knocked down and people say that you won’t make it and you are defeated. You have to tell yourself in the back of your mind, I will not be defeated. You have to find a way you keep searching until you find a solution. And, and I do this right now. This situation that I was talking to Dr. Ortiz about this county being a, the first county in the state of Florida to be all public schools to be a charter school. I just believe that we can find a way through the citizenry. There’s an old cliché said that it takes a village to raise a child. We have to find a way to tell our leaders, our religious leaders, our community leaders and political leaders that we are responsible for providing the leadership for our area. And if we don’t find a solution, we forever have people telling us what to do. And we have to say that we can make decisions. We’re a democracy. We’re an America. We can make decisions and we don’t need anybody telling us what to do. We make take guidance from legislation and all that but politically we can run our





own area. That is what democracy is all about. Becoming a sovereign area where you make decisions where you are going to be a survivor and you are going to be legitimate.

	M:	Okay. So with that being said, I just wanted to ask one more thing. So you were saying you wanted change from public to charter. So can you quickly summarize why you believe that is the best path to take? Because I know you talked about the process, but why is it that you believe charter is better? Well not better than.

	N:	It is the vice versa. Charter is not best.



	M:	Right. So why would you want to make that change considering that.



	N:	First of all, Florida and other areas have always had always had public schools law. Comprehensive education has always been the way of life in America and in the state of Florida. And so when we had public schools and the rationale behind public schools is to be able to govern. And it goes back to my government background now. That’s why you have, when you go back draw upon your education into government, the three levels and it’s to balance. You have legislative, you have judicial, and you have executive branches of government.

And those three kinda look upon one another and they keep that balance there. And there was a reason our founding fathers did that. It was one of greatest things the founding fathers could have ever done because if you get one element of government dominate power, they will take that and actually seize it and create a monopoly. That is why you have dictators and all that. The rationale for my strong belief in a public school system is that you need to be able to govern and provide leadership in your own area. With the set of standards that you have





to abide by similar to the colleges. You have the state board of education governing the school system and the education system at higher education level. You have your, I think it is called the, you have board of governors and you have a board of trustees that’s established in the state of Florida that governs higher education. You set those guidelines and say this is what you have to abide by but at the same time, you stay within the parameters of those but if you, when you charters that is a form of corporate America. Charter schools when you look at in the state of Florida, they are owned by corporations. These are people who are wealthy billionaires and everything. So when you give them that opportunity to come in, what happens is that their board of directors become principal decision makers of the public school system it takes away the power of the public to govern its own. Good example is the charter system negotiated a contract with this county. We will pay a private company millions of dollars for five years to run our school system but yet we have no say so because their board of directors make those decision how they gone run our school system. So in the statistical data actually has already shown that the charter system for counties that are deprived and other things, a low income communities it’s not a good fit for that because a lot of those students may have some disciplinary problems. And what will happen is that those board of directors to make themselves look good, it’s about making a profit. They’re not going to deal with kids that are disciplinary problems. We just kick them out and put them on the streets. And when that happens, those kids will add to the criminal element, the social economic situation that becomes a criminal process. The taxpayers will pay more money to





incarcerate. That’s why you have prisons now with over 90 percent African American. And you’re, that’s not the solution to what democracy is all about and so that’s why I am totally against the charter schools. Although this legislature session, there’s a bill that was introduced and Florida becomes the first state that required any school with a grade D or F to automatically convert charter by law, that’s a legislature mandate and there’s a fifteen billion dollar fiscal note attached to legislation. So people that are already wealthy will automatically get all those public schools in the state of Florida and they will be running them and the people will lose their right to be decision makers in those.

	M:	It is as almost as if they get an incentive for a school performing poorly.



	N:	Oh yeah. Yeah. That what they call what is the school of choice bill and it’ s meant to take over those [inaudible 39:53] are called schools that are below the level but yet put them in the hands folk who are corporate leaders and they are going to make killing.

	M:	Well I thank you Mr. Nelson for all your comments and expressing your experience and just taking out the time to speak with us. Is there anything else that you wanted to say or mention?

	N:	Well again it’s been my, what I call joy to utilize my experiences and from a young person observing becoming inquisitive about what is happening to becoming an adult and now that I have begun to get in my elder age, is to reflect back on this and see the difference that I have made in this county. And even in this state I have organized Black fire fighters all over the state of Florida to even in Gainesville. And been involved with helping people to get their rights restored.





Although the law, after Governor Bush, Governor Bush one of the best things he was able to do. Although, I was not able to agree with all the things Governor Bush did. But one of the thing he did do as a governor was that he created a situation where by when people in prison finished their time and paid restitution, then the secretary of the Department of Corrections automatically filed with the Florida Clemency Board to get their rights restored where they can become voting citizens. Now under Governor Scott, during the Obama administration, the legislature crafted a bill that added an additional five years so when a person gets out of prison you can apply for restoration of rights you have to what for what they call a five year cooling off period. But what it was actually it was a process to decrease voter registration in the state of Florida. It was meant to not get President Obama reelected but he was able to do it any way. But I was feel good about what I did in my lifetime and what I continue to do as an adult. To mentor. I do have a young mentoring out of high school right now. Help build leaders. Give them guidance to become what I call responsible citizens who would give back to their community and that’s what the good part about what I enjoy today.

	M:	Well thank you. N:	All right.

	M:	So much. [End of interview]

	Transcribed by:	Charity Kelly, May, 24, 2019 Audit edited by:	Sandra Romero May 20, 2019





	Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, Mat 14, 2020