AAHP 451; Shaw; Page 10

Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu





The image part with relationship ID rId1 was not found in the file.



AAHP 451 Willie Charles Shaw African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Vickie Oldham on August 18, 2015 54 minutes | 25 pages



Abstract: Mr. Willie Charles Shaw is a reverend and mayor of Sarasota. He reflects on his memories of growing up in Newtown, Florida. He discusses how there were no lights at night and how the community all knew each other. He delves into his memories of attending school at Booker and the roles his teachers played in shaping him as a person. He shares stories of the band and how it was the pride of the community. Mayor Shaw also reflects on his time in the Air Force and working in the post office for many years. He concludes the interview discussing his hope for the future of his community and what he envisions.



Keywords: [Newtown, Florida; Booker School; Segregation; Air Force; African American History]



Standards:

1. SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws.











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 451 (Newtown Oral History Project) Interviewee: Willie Charles Shaw Interviewer: Vickie Oldham

Date: August 18, 2015



	O:	What is your name?



	S:	My name is Willie Charles Shaw. O:	And your title?

	S:	Which one?



	O:	Whichever one, and all of the ones you want to list today.



	S:	I'm Minister, Reverend—I am Commissioner, District One the City of Sarasota and I'm presently the Mayor of the City of Sarasota.

	O:	Mayor Shaw tell me about your earliest recollections of Sarasota. Before you do that though, tell me who your parents were and were they from Sarasota born and reared?

	S:	Yes. I'm the oldest living side of my mother and dad, Wade and Naomi Shaw. My mother was born in Tallevast and my dad was born in Alachua County, Alachua. I'm the second son. I have one living brother and three siblings that have passed. Two brothers and a sister.

	O:	Where are your parents from?



	S:	Here. My mom was born in Tallevast and my dad was born in Alachua.



	O:	Oh that's what you said. Okay so I was remembering something you said before we started to roll. You said that your grandparents came to work on the railroad?

	S:	My great-grandfather and his brothers were railroad men and they came through here about 1903 bringing the Seaboard Railroad in here.

	O:	And what did they do on the railroad?





	S:	They were Gandy dancers and I'm not certain about two of them but the Gandy dancer was the people who built the tracks, laid the tracks, and—

	O:	Yeah, that’s what I hoped but I never heard that title or that term before. So what are your earliest recollections of growing up in Tallevast and moving to Sarasota?

	S:	No here.



	O:	Oh Sarasota.



	S:	Yes, I'm born and raised here. My mother was born in Tallevast. Growing up here, raised here, my great-grandmother, Sophie was here. I guess grandma's tree got in here, Woodlawn was open in 1905. Uncle Lester's here in 1910, so yeah –

	O:	Tell me about your earliest recollections of growing up, I suppose it was in Overtown.

	S:	No, no, no, no. I'm born in Black Bottom. I'm raised in Black Bottom. I'm raised here in Newtown. My family, everything from what is today Thirty-second Street right in front of Booker is where is where I was born and raised.

	O:	Well tell me about this Black Bottom term.



	S:	Black Bottom. Well the area coming off of Maple and what is today Goodrich. Goodrich didn't go all the way through. All of that from Twenty-ninety back to, what is today MLK is filled in, that was all swampland. Palmadellia, in there that was deep. Orange Avenue didn't run through at that point.

	O:	How far did it go?





	S:	Orange Avenue stopped at MLK. There's a set of tree you might find behind Jerome Stephens' that line Mr. Daily, and where Fred Akins live, you'll find a line of palm trees there. That was the old roadway road there, that we would travel from Amaryllis Park.

	O:	The school?



	S:	No Amaryllis Park itself. Amaryllis Park is one of the sub-divisions that starts at Thirty-sixth Street and comes to Thirty-second. It stops at Thirty-second. Beyond Thirty-second Street, you go into Newtown Heights. Jackson Grinner, I wanna believe live in Carver Heights.

	O:	Well Amaryllis Park where did that name come from? Do you know?



	S:	Amaryllis is a sub-division and the original platting of the properties here and that's how Amaryllis came about.

	O:	Imma have to look up that name to see.



	S:	Yeah it's altogether different from the Association and your grandmother, Sister Herring, Mrs. McDougall, Donnella James—all of these people lived in the area of Thirty-second. And how this Organization of Seth came about is that when we had a death in the neighborhood, those women would put together food and see that flowers were brought about. My mother brought about the idea of sewing on either a heart or a ribbon around the sleeve of the men on the right sleeve to show that you were a family member. We'd cut them out.

	O:	I remember this. I remember the baskets of gifts, the food and the flowers.



	S:	It was one of the neighborhood associations here before it became an association. And your grandmother, Ms. Viola, carried it on for a very long time





and they thrived into what it is today. But Reverend Herring and Sister Herring- between Osprey and Thirty-second—those Paul Higginsville, first in there then it was the Herrings and then there was Eleanor Ball, Mr. Mack Ball and those, when Ms. Lottie-Mae Dixie and those moved in there. That was the south side of Thirty-second. On the north side we had Mrs. Stoval, we had the Stevens and we had also the Hornes that came along there. That was before the street was paved. Our streets didn't get paved until 1968. The original paved streets was the route of the bus where the city transit. And at that point it traveled what is now Goodrich, when you get to Ozell Verne Stephens and the day nursery, the street stopped, the pavement stopped right there. Right there the bus stopped, it turned left and went back to Osprey and went back up to Twenty-seventh Street and went back down and back up again.

	O:	Oh my goodness your memory is incredible. Give me some boyhood stories.



	S:	Boyhood stories? [Laughter] When we go back to the term Black Bottom, you would come off of MLK or Osprey you came between Ms. Broxton or Ms. Mable Powell to come into where Jackson is now. There was a two-story rooming house there and those were three paths that you came through and you would down what is today Church paved, but it was just a trail at that time. Then you would turn up what was now Twenty-ninth, that was a trail that led up through Mr. John lot, Mr. John Green. Tea Green's mother and those were at the corner then they called it Knapper's Grove because the Knappers lived down in that area and they had grapefruits and oranges. That's where Ms. Shelley's, the principal of





Booker, father came out of, Johnny Avener. And the Aveners lived down in that area also.

	O:	Why are you so familiar with all of these families and these names? It's as if you knew them all.

	S:	I did.



	O:	Why? I mean how did you get to know all of these people?



	S:	You were raised up with them. Let’s say if you were going through the Bottom up to MLK today and you had go by Ms. Culpepper, Ms. Mary Culpepper was blind and her sister lived there. Where Mrs. Butler lives, Odessa Butler, just behind her, right behind Jerry Schwartz Pharmacy, Mrs. Culpepper was and she was blind. On the other side of the street they had Herbert Jenkins and his sister lived in there. Herbert built a house on MLK, that was right where Ms. Bush and the Mollers lived. It was Ms. Bush who lived there.

	O:	Are you saying that everybody knew everybody?



	S:	Everybody knew everybody. Yes, very, very much so. You couldn't pass anybody that you didn't know.

	O:	About how many people lived in this Black Bottom area?



	S:	Oh in the Black Bottom area you may have had-because it was sometimes transient because of Mrs. Johnson, who was Mrs. Garret's sister, they had a rooming house in there she rented out places so there were transient families in there. The Belchers came out of there.

	O:	Why were they transients? Coming in to work?





	S:	They would rent from her and then move onto their own places or another area within the community.

	O:	Okay so that was their transition spot before they found permanent housing?



	S:	Yes, because many times people would come in and you would know them but it would only be for a season.

	O:	I see and from the people that I've talked with, they had family members who learned that this was a place for opportunities.

	S:	Oh definitely, definitely, definitely. I'm multifaceted and sometimes I'm doing a service for the funeral chapel, for one of the funeral homes. And I remember a chap from Mississippi. And I said well the first that came in were the Morrisons, and behind them came the Monicks, and behind them came Wiz Howard, James Howard and his parents along with Bobby Jean Green and Joe Green— and Joe Bayne. And I was reflecting on who came first. The Monicks came because they were working because they worked at what is now Johnny’s car wash. There was a Third Street carwash and that was right there at Orange and what is today, Fruitville. That’s right across from Chaney’s Groceries, there used to be Phillips 66 Gas Station on that corner and then Chaney’s Market but all those people came in. So you marked them by who came, you know, the Alabama Crew, Mr. Jean and those came in here. There’s the set—the one group that does the Star Westcoast.

	O:	Henry Porter?



	S:	No.



	O:	Oh Nate Jacob?





	S:	No not Nate. The dancer and he has several brothers. It’ll come back to me. O:	Oh okay.

	S:	But they all came out of Alabama, the family and they lived down in there. O:	Well tell me about your childhood?

[Asking a question to the cameraman]



	O:	Okay yea so take me back to your childhood and what was it like growing up? S:	Oh it was beautiful. It was wonderful. It was everything. When you come down

Orange Avenue, let’s start at Thirty-first coming from the school. There were the Hardys and the Petersons that lived along there. We’re all kin. We were intermarried in there. The place where Mr. Timmons lived, Jean Timmons, that was our hog pen in that area.

	O:	A hog pin?



	S:	That was a hog pin. O:	Who owned that?

	S:	My grandmother, my dad’s mother owned that area and there’s a two-story building on Palmadillia, starting at Twenty-ninth. You know where Mr. Berry’s house is? Where Lance lives today? Well but that property all coming back up belonged to family members on either side. My uncle Clarence Wells and Netty Wells lived in there. There was only a ditch bank along there and a trail. The houses that you find in there now, where the Monicks and others live, were not there. Then you got to that curve. Everybody in there was kin. I guess my earliest recollection; I have many of those. There was one time, one of Reverend Herring’s cows got out and I was at my grandmother’s, Rosa Girard, who lived in





the curve as you come around Palamadillia and I was on my tricycle and the cow came up behind me. And I can just remember looking over my shoulder saying, “They got me.” Or the time I fell in the hot water ditch—now we’re talking about Overtown—and my sister pulled me out of the hot water ditch.

	O:	Hot water ditch? What’s that?



	S:	Well we had two icehouses: the one that you are familiar with at Sixth and Central but there was another one at Sixth and Lemon, what is Lemon today. That was all railroad tracks. And what is now Cohen Way own Black Bottom 1435 Sixth Street, the Robinson had the Chicago flats. There were a number of hotels and rooming houses in that area. Mr. Parnell Mays and the Mays were down in there, the 1400 block of Ninth Street in 921 was where Mr. Charlie Jones and Ms. Helen family came out of. On the other side behind what is today SMA, which was once St. Martha’s, it was Mark Washington’s quarters. Wade Harvin, make sure you ask him about Mark Washington.

	O:	So you’ve mentioned two places where Black Bottom was. S:	Yes.

	O:	It was two places?



S:  Yes. Black Bottom, Newtown was dark. O:  What does that mean?

S:  There was no light. We didn’t have street lights and anything. And this darkness brought you from where I said Ms. Culpepper and Ms. Bush and the Moorland’s lived. There was a trailer came down through there and then you turned and you came up and you came around.





	O:	I don’t understand how people found their way at night. S:	You did.

	O:	Flashlights? No flashlights. S:	No you walked.

	O:	You just knew.



	S:	Yeah you walked and it was a car trail, a car path, that would carry over but when it would rain, it was wash out there were the Salems and all this.

	O:	Tell me something. What development? Slow. S:	Slow okay.

	O:	Why didn’t the city leaders think that they should pay attention?



	S:	Wait now, remember we weren’t even getting—you do know that most of Newtown’s mail was came downtown or to Ms. Alice Schwartz because the postal service did not deliver mail in Newtown. There were no curbside deliveries. Sister Patterson, Reverend Ezell Patterson’s wife, and others. When they built in there, once Orange Avenue became Payne’s about 1958, [1959] there. That was all swamp south of Twenty-ninth street. It was very low land and they hauled the demolished Sarasota Little Beach Pavilion was found in there.

That’s where they dumped a lot of that stuff in there to create fill.



	O:	Who pushed for the delivery of mail?



	S:	Like I said Sister Patterson and others once they got in there, in that area, challenges Gordon Higel, l and the post-office. Gordon was one of those you know the Higel Avenue going out to Siesta Beach? That was the postmaster’s





family and his dad lived out there ‘cause his sister lived out on Fourth Street, 2400 block. Yeah 2431.

	O:	It seems to me that all along this history, Black folks had to push for what they needed and wanted.

	S:	Everything, there as always, when we had person’s like Mr. Neil Humphrey, Roselle Atkins, Booker Honor, Mr. Honor was one of those individuals who was a steward in the Bethel CME. My grandmother was a charter member of Bethel CME, Bugle Prof Ed. And there were people that spoke up and spoke out. There were a number of White people that they worked for that would back them at a distance but there was support coming from them before Ross Boyle was the sheriff he was a highway patrolman and did driver’s license here and he’s the last democrat elected [Laughter] to office at that point.

	O:	This was during the Jim Crow era?



	S:	Of course. Up to Jim Crow and afterwards. I grew up in segregated Sarasota. O:	What was that like?

	S:	You know let’s understand something, it was your way of life so you knew it was wrong because when your cousins and everybody came from up North and came home, they expected difference, they looked for different stuff and wondered why we weren’t able to do what they were able to do. Like a Saturday trip downtown. If you came into Sarasota on a Saturday, you would find Black folk usually around the Seaboard Railroad, that’s where Madison’s is right now, the train station there. And you would find, Deacon Butler he worked for Van Dyke. Van Dyke was the station master and Deacon Butler would open the restrooms so





that Black folk had places to go for the restroom because many of the establishments on Main Street didn’t allow Black folk to use the restrooms. If you went into McCrory’s it was all the way back in the back near the elevator and they had Colored water fountains and White water foundations. Margaret and Dan had the same thing.

	O:	Margaret and Dan?



S:  Yeah it was Margaret and Dan. That was a chain, I would imagine, before we got QuickChek. That was at Third Street. Walter Humphrey was the first bag boy that I know of, of color. Neil Humphrey’s son, the late Walter Humphrey.

O:   Why were they around that railroad?



	S:	Like I said that was the restroom accommodations so they would gather there after the train left.

	O:	There was no shopping then because the Black community was so close –



	S:	Downtown? No this was from everybody in town. Everybody Black went downtown to shop on Saturdays.

	O:	But shop where if you couldn’t get in.



S:  Oh they would serve you but you didn’t always have the accommodating— O:  Oh the facilities?

S:   The facilities.



	O:	Okay so there was a time then before this that Blacks were not able to go into stores because Mrs. Glossy said that there was a ferry leaving for Palmetto and they shopped for food and clothes in Tampa.





	S:	Well that was during the period of Earl Webb and Webb’s City. That was in the area where they had built the stadium off of Twenty-Second and Fort in Saint Pete. And the ferry left from Piney Point and what is now Port Manatee. There was a ferry that carried you into those areas.

	O:	But you don’t remember not being able to go into the shops and businesses along—

	S:	No because when Sears Roebuck was down right across from Charlie’s newsstand, Sears was on the lower end of Main next to Wick Zick, the 1315 Main Street [Laughter] and the Cotton Shop and you went in them. J.C. Penny’s, Sarasota Bank and Trust, all these places you were. But like again, facilities and they got better deals going out of the city to buy groceries.

	O:	Okay now tell me about your education. S:	Education?

	O:	Yeah.



	S:	I went to school at Booker. O:	Elementary of course.

	S:	I went to school at Booker. There was everything you only had Booker Elementary and Booker High.

	O:	So it wasn’t called that specifically, Booker Elementary or Booker High? It was just called Booker.

	S:	Well there was a Booker High School that was built in 1953. I had started school in [19]53 so they had gone into the new building at that time.

	O:	Who were your teachers?





	S:	Oh first grade, Mrs. Mack Green, second grade Pervell Connors Barber, third grade Ms. Barbara Wiggin, fourth grade probably one of the most impressive and inspiration people in my childhood life was Aravia Bennet Johnson.

	O:	Why do you say that?



	S:	She had taught my dad and then she was just—oh she was special. All of our teachers were special but she was probably the most influencing individual that I had ever—She could write with both hands, right and left and not just—

	O:	It is because she spent so much time with individual students or—



	S:	Everybody in the class was treated the same way. Everybody was but everybody was special. There was some moment in the day that you were just hers. You know and we had probably thirty kids to each class at that time.

	O:	Wow. So she helped to groom you into this leader that you are today?



	S:	I would have to say that the entire learning experience at Booker groomed me because we were taught that you always had to be better. You always had to do better. You always had to be better. You had to.

	O:	I remember my grandmother saying you got to be ten times better than your competitive White student because –

	S:	Well we didn’t even have the White challenges. My books were brought from Sarasota High School. I can always remember that a book I pick up always had a Strickland name in it, the family Strickland. And there were pages that were torn, there were pages that were torn out. We had to do an inventory of books and Coach Williams was like the person that took inventory of—Carl Williams was the person that took inventory of books during that time when I got to Booker High.





	O:	It seems –



	S:	Oh I didn’t finish.



	O:	Oh!



	S:	I just got to fourth grade. O:	Oh okay!

	S:	Fifth grade I had Foster Park. It was his first year here and then we had Mr.



Robinson in sixth grade. We were the first ones to go into the brand new Booker Elementary that was right across from your grandmother’s. That was in 1958 I think because that’s when grandma died [intentional mumbling and laughter].

	O:	You want to tell me about your high school teacher?



	S:	High school. Oh in high school my home room teacher first was Mrs. Miller, she came from Manatee County here. And she was very, very smart and creative and my teachers, I had Mrs. Daily, Esther Daily. I had Coach Baker and Turner Covington in band. I had Janie Jackson Goodman Poe in math.

	O:	A lot of people talk about Mrs. Poe. S:	You have to.

	O:	She was unforgettable.



	S:	Well Booker had—and I don’t think there was any teacher at Booker that didn’t have a Master’s Degree; they were all very selective. There are different takes on the principal Owen W. Roland Roseworth Rogers.

	O:	Strick disciplinarian.





	S:	Oh you didn’t walk on the grass. Booker was built in 1953, got its first paint job in 1963 not because it needed it but they had to show something being done. You didn’t touch the walls. You didn’t hug the beautiful ladies.

	O:	You didn’t? In his presence.



	S:	No you didn’t hug the beautiful ladies.



	O:	How would he know there were no cameras [Laughter].



	S:	Listen you would sit in an assembly on Friday and you didn’t chew gum. And he would look out—and he always made a presentation on Fridays.

	O:	Every Friday.



	S:	Every Friday and he would look out and he would say, George Spakes go to my office. Pam, Roland go see Mrs. Spires. And the auditorium had two or three hundred students there. So everybody was known. He lived right across the street from my grandmother.

	O:	Did he ever call you into the office?



	S:	No you know what I had one opportunity to go into the office and it was on Friday before a football game and I had gone to get ticket and in his office there was Mrs. Dixon who’s the mother of Frank Gaines, Doretta and those. You would go in and he had a sign behind his desk that says, “If you’re right be calm, if you’re wrong be patient.”

	O:	Oh wow and you remember that. That is incredible. Did you play in the band?



	S:	I did. I started off in the band. I tore my lip off in the sixth grade and had to give up.

	O:	What did you play?





	S:	The trumpet. Mr. Covington, Turner Covington was a most understanding individual and I was around the band room as a band boy. I issued the instruments and things out because I didn’t participate after my lip was torn.

	O:	That band was the pride and joy of the community. Why?



	S:	You have to remember Mr. Valentine came into Sarasota, put Booker’s band into the streets within nine weeks of him coming. That band, Jet, Ed, all those guys played in the band and Clifford Jones, one of the Majorettes, I’m sorry one of the Drum Majors [Laughter].

	O:	That’s okay we edit. But why was it such pride? Why did it instill pride?



	S:	To see the purple and gold marching at that time. We used to have the pageant and they would start at the Municipal Auditorium and march to Erick Field down through Main Street and to see Booker. To see Booker you had the band, you had THE BAND that came through. And in the earlier years, when we did that march, we marched behind Ringling Circus. The elephants and that and thank God for Mr. Lonnie Logan and Mr. Douglas.

	O:	Why?



	S:	They were street sweepers. We didn’t have the machine, these were men that swept the streets with a broom and a 55-gallon drum.

	O:	Oh wow. Besides the Booker school and the band, the church was very prevalent in the community. Where did you church?

S:   New Bethel. I was between New Bethel and Bethel CME because not only was my great grandmother a charter member of the Mount Tabor Missionary Baptist Church, and my grandmother, but they also came into New Bethel when it got its





start. And my grandmother on my dad’s side started over at Bethel CME so we shared services. And you had strong ministers. Preachers were strong.

Remember the strongest people within our community at that time and the voices of the community were the funeral home directors, the undertakers and the preachers, and people like Neil Humphrey and Herbert Jenkins, Asa Payne.

	O:	Business owners too.



	S:	The business owners. Because our dollar circulated within the community. And so they didn’t work for White folk so they could respond and they didn’t have to worry about being fired. They didn’t have to worry because the Black community took care of them.

	O:	I see. What did you do for fun?



	S:	Everything. I had the largest playground in Newtown. I had Booker High School.



The Booker School campus because it was just across the ditch from where I lived.

	O:	Playground equipment?



S:  The swings, the sliding board, they had a spinner at that time. O:  Marbles?

S:  Oh you had to shoot marbles. Everybody shot marbles. My daddy shot marbles with my cousin Sylvester against Little Moses Ball and everything. My dad was left-handed.

O:   Stickball?



	S:	We had bats. We didn’t have stickball, we had bats. But yeah we played baseball, football.





	O:	Spinning tops [Laughter].



S:  Oh yeah. You know when you come to, what was the campus, if you came to right in front of Fred Atkins pencil house, where they just put the new baseball field, across from Mrs. Stephen’s home, Ozell Stephens. There was a big oak tree there and my fourth grade class and us you had the spinning tops.

	O:	We haven’t even gotten halfway there. So you graduated from—halfway through this interview there’s so much to share. You graduated from Booker and then went where?

	S:	Oh well leaving Booker I attended Gibbs Junior College and rode the bus over to Gibbs. Mary Mack today, Mary Ellis-Simmons, Myself, Gloria Neely, bunch of people from here.

	O:	Went to college at Gibbs.



	S:	Went to Gibbs Junior College, across the skyway every day. O:	Every day.

	S:	Every day.



	O:	Did you pay?



	S:	To right the bus? O:	Yes.

	S:	No Manatee County provided it. Manatee County provided a bus for the students of Manatee that came into Newtown to pick up the students and we traveled there.

	O:	Okay what did you study?





	S:	The first place I ever got an “F” was at Gibbs Junior College. A White math teacher gave me an “F.” My brothers laughed and laughed and laughed.

	O:	Why did you get the “F”?



	S:	It was the teaching skills were totally different. O:	Then what you were accustomed to?

	S:	Definitely.



	O:	What was the difference?



	S:	I don’t think the individual took the time to— O:	Explain.

	S:	Explain it. You know it was just like, bluh. And I lost interest. O:	And you didn’t get it. What was your major?

	S:	At that time, I wanted to teach history. I wanted to be a history teacher. O:	Now where did the military service come in?

	S:	Right after Gibbs I joined the Air Force on August the 24th 1967. O:	Why?

	S:	One, my dad was a veteran, family members had been veterans, served the country and I too wanted to serve. I volunteered and joined the Air Force. And it was funny about two weeks after getting there, my mom, when I did get an opportunity to use the telephone, told me that there was a letter had came. And what it was was the, “Dear, so-and-so, your services are needed for the United States Army.” The draft, I had been drafted but I had already volunteered and was in the Air Force.





	O:	For the Air Force okay and just tell me what happened after your service. How long, well you’re still serving you said this year will be what fifty years?

	S:	Oh well I’m not an active participant in the military. It would be fifty years since my discharge. I only served four active years and there were six years of active reserve, we came out.

	O:	Were you in combat?



	S:	No I’m a Vietnam era veteran and I do that because and I quickly make that understood because there are a lot of men and individuals who latch on to that experience. My classmates, I had classmates and individuals that I grew up that were in country on the ground so I can’t dare take their honor for being a Vietnam Veteran. I’m a Vietnam era Veteran. I served in the United States Air Force, I served in Korea. I was there when they took the Pueblo and Commander Lloyd Bucher and we were put on alert in 1968. Those individuals were kept in North Korea. As a matter of fact, the only captive Naval vessel is that Pueblo in North Korea. It sits there today.

	O:	Okay tell me more about the jobs. You worked for the post office for a long time.



	S:	I came into the U.S. Postal Service coming back from the military, I was at the hospital first and then I came back into the hospital where I left while I attended the JC. And got in the postal service. I was a carrier for eighteen years or more. I’m a T6, I had five different routes that I carried and they were same five I was relief carrier there. While in the postal service, I was a steward, chief steward, vice president and president of the local branch of the NALC but I followed people like Jerome Stephens who was the first Black hired in the postal service





here in Sarasota. Joe McKenzie, Jean Underwoods, Mr. Eddy Rainey, I followed Glen Pinkston. I followed a series of very, very strong Black men at that time who had came the way of the postal service.

	O:	Okay and let’s talk about your role now as Mayor. Wow I understand why you must be Sarasota’s mayor. You’ve seen so many changes over the years. How Sarasota has changed and how our Black community has changed. What kind of vision for the future do you have for Newtown, having seen it from its very beginnings?

	S:	Well one of the things that has driven me more than anything is the identity of Newtown. Presently we who are of color only own 32 percent of the property within Newtown, we are now 68 percent of the venders and veneers within our community. I’m very, very big on changing the landscape, restoring the landscape and bringing about a greater vitality to North Sarasota as a whole.

Education-wise there are many opportunities being presented to North Sarasota at this time that our schools of learning—the stick in the mud there is that so many of our students from this area being bussed to other schools. And so before I want to say, “Yes bring that on.” First who is it gonna benefit on the education side of it. Economics, right now the average resident in Newtown, the median income for the city of Sarasota is $49,000 a year in our area it’s about 24 [thousand]. We’re 46% living under poverty. We have 16% percent of the population, presently there are only 89 persons of color working for the city itself of Sarasota, that’s 16%.

	O:	Why so far behind? Why the gap you think?





	S:	I think that quite frequently we become distracted. There are other things we have, other voices. And our priorities are very difficult to set because we have yet as a community learned how to work together. It’s me, me, me, I, I, I and those are things that are not necessarily so. When we think of the whole. We just celebrated a hundred years and it was so discombobulated. Instead did we have day or weekend where everybody born in Sarasota, came back to Sarasota? Did we have a day for Newtown? No. Well why? Because this voice was speaking, that voice was speaking. I’m in charge, I, me, I and we haven’t grown beyond that. So hopefully one of my visions is to work toward working across the aisle or working with others to bring about a greater understanding. Some of our arguments are very, very frivolous and I want to see the landscape change. I want to see a destination point, or points within the MLK business quarter. I want to see the benefits of a true CRA effort within this portion of the community.

	O:	Community Redevelopment. S:	Yes, definitely.

	O:	What about grooming new and young leaders?



	S:	Oh very much so. In talking to some of our youth, younger people. In a recent meeting that was my conversation. How do we create succession? Who comes behind me? Who do we want to represent? And if you’re not at the table, you’re on the table explaining that if you’re not on our advisory boards, if you’re not becoming participant in your neighborhood association, if you’re not seeking these things, then those challenges remain the same.





	O:	Here’s something to think about as well. From what I can gather from observations, when our young ambitious leaders to be graduate and go off to college, many don’t return home. But I’m seeing a resurgence, I’m hearing about a resurgence.

	S:	We do have a resurgence. There is a resurgence and they’re hungry to learn. They’re very hungry to participate and in many instances we have old school others who—

	O:	Want to keep the rest of the power?



	S:	Rest of the power and power is sometimes misunderstood and when we’re not leveraging it properly, we stay divided. You know I can talk louder and I can talk longer than you but what do we accomplish? And for me I’m very, very stale on stalling. You know if we’re gonna do something let’s do it and let’s do it right the first time.

	O:	Are you optimistic about Newtown’s future?



	S:	Oh highly, highly of course I am. I’m very much so. My efforts are to see—and I do this with our EDCs and wherever I get an opportunity to speak—I bring this to the forefront. Sooner or later we’re going to have to remove the baulk on our applications. Because many of our young people are now in their twenties, later twenties and they got an infraction upon their lives at fourteen or fifteen and that harbors them and hampers them from getting a job today because they can’t fill the application. Yes, changing the landscape requires a lot of work but not all of the time are you able to convey this because of the “I’s” and the “Me’s.” I done





that. It’s not necessary, how do we get the job done. Sometimes your right hand can’t know what your left hand is doing.

	O:	Mayor Shaw, anything you’d like to add? You’ve covered a lot of ground.



	S:	Oh only that I’m looking forward to our creating and getting this project as far out into the future as we possibly can because I think that here during this historical trek through our story from different individuals and from different perspectives is gonna be the way that we hold ourselves together and one of the things that you mentioned was the church. The churches and the role that they play in this change or in this, has to be, has to be the place we go once again. So I’m very, very, very, very happy to see this project unfold and I look forward to working with you, the task force and anyway that I may assist you in the future.

	O:	Thank you.



	S:	No thank you. [End of interview]





	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 4, 2020