AAHP 168; Taylor; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 168 Portia Taylor

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Ayana Flewellen on March 30, 2011 1 hour, 38 minutes | 50 pages



Abstract: Portia Taylor was born in Raleigh, North Carolina, and moved at the age of seven to Hampton, Virginia, where she grew up. She describes her family history, and both the character of Jim Crow segregation in Hampton that she experienced as well as the process by which she became aware of it. She also talks about her experiences with the Ku Klux Klan, including a cross-burning that was intended to deter her church’s pastor from supporting the Civil Rights Movement. She also attended the all-Black Phoenix High School in Raleigh, and compares her experiences to what she has learned of Lincoln High School in Gainesville from talking to people in Alachua County. She also talks about the important social and cultural role of church in her life and in her community growing up. She shares her memories of Gainesville when she arrived in the 1960s, and also talks about her experiences working at Santa Fe College.





[Keywords: African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Phoenix High School]













































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 168

Interviewee: Portia Taylor Interviewer: Ayana Flewellen Date: March 30, 2011



	F:	So it is May 30 and I am here with— T:	March 30.

	F:	Oh, it’s, oh, and—



	T:	You’re really moving us ahead.



	F:	I know, I’m just really excited, and I just wanted to jump ahead already. It’s March 30, 2011 and I am here with Portia Taylor. We’re going to be discussing a bit about herself, her involvement here at Santa Fe, and then also the beauty aesthetics that she subscribes to.

	T:	All right.



	F:	I’m excited.



	T:	I am, too. Thank you for coming.



	F:	Thank you for having me. I guess we can start with you just saying your full name.

	T:	My name is Portia Laverne Taylor. F:	Your place of birth?

	T:	I was born—do you want dates and things? F:	Yeah.

T:   I was born June 12, 1950 in Raleigh, North Carolina in St. Agnes Hospital, which is on the campus of St. Augustine College—then, St. Augustine University—and HBCU in Raleigh, North Carolina.

	F:	Wow.





	T:	And all my siblings were born there also. It was the only hospital for coloreds at that time in 1950. So most Black children were born at St. Agnes Hospital back then. It’s no longer there, but the shell of the building is there. I think the university plans to, at some point, remodel it, but last I was in Raleigh, a few years back, it was just a shell of a building. It was St. Agnes Hospital, yes. At the time, my father was a student at St. Aug, my mother had graduated Shaw in 1948. And they got married in 1949. And my father had got into the army, and was back, and used in the G.I. Bill to go to school. And was at St. Augustine and met my mom. So he finished, he actually graduated St. Augustine that year I was born. Right, before I was born. I think he graduated in May of 1950 and I was born in June of 1950. Yes, my mother had finished at Shaw in 1948.

	F:	What did they go to school for?



	T:	My mother and father were both school teachers. And they both did that for years. My family moved to Hampton, Virginia when I was about seven. My mother continued to teach in junior high school. I guess what they call social studies now, back then they called it civics.

	F:	Yeah, well I still had civics.



	T:	You still had civics? Okay, so my mother taught civics. And when we moved to Hampton, she taught at the junior high school there, the Black junior high school. And my dad went into the post office at the time because that paid better than school teachers. But they both went to school—he was a business major—but he used to teach business type courses in the high school in Raleigh. Typing and things like that.





	F:	So, it seems likes that education was really a focus point—



	T:	It always was. It even goes back to my grandmother, my father’s mother, who—it was very unusual at that time—she got a bachelor’s degree in 1932.

	F:	Wow.



	T:	And she taught school for many, many, many years in the Cary, North Carolina system, yes. In fact, I have her diploma. She finished St. Augustine also, in 1932.

	F:	That’s a rich history. T:	Yeah.

	F:	So, how many brothers and sisters do you have?



	T:	I have an older sister, who’s a year older and a sister that’s a year younger, and a brother. So there are four of us, and we were all stair steps. Back in those days, four was considered a small family, believe it or not. The average family was six or seven children. My parents had a child every year; we’re stair steps. My older sister was born in [19]49, I was born in [19]50, my younger sister was born in [19]51 and my brother missed [19]52 by one day. He was born January 1, of [19]53. So we’re all kind of right now, at this point in time, we’re all stair steps until my sister has a birthday in April. My brother’s fifty-eight, Carol’s fifty-nine, and I’m sixty, and Deborah’s sixty-one. It’s just amazing. The hard part was my mother had four children in college at the same time, so that made it a little interesting back then.

	F:	Did she ever tell stories of the troubles or the successes that she had with you all so young?





	T:	Well, my parents divorced when I was ten, and then it really did become a struggle for her. School teachers still don’t make a lot of money, they really didn’t make a lot back in 1960. So it was a struggle, my father returned to Raleigh, and I can remember—it was difficult. I worked early on, you know. Starting in junior high school I did a lot of jobs, teachers I babysat, and then as I got older and into high school, then I went to work at different places. So, it’s a strong educational ethic, but it was a strong work ethic in our household, too. We’ve always worked, all four of us, we’ve always worked. But yeah, it was interesting when my sister, who’s a year younger than I am, at some point went to live with my father, I think when I—the timing gets a little confused—but for a year after we moved to Hampton and she lived with my grandmother. And my grandmother taught school and she went to school with her, and she skipped a grade. So when she joined us in Hampton, as I was going into the third grade, she was in the third grade. So we actually finished high school the same year and entered college the same year. My older sister was going into her sophomore year. So it was very interesting, and our brother was two years behind me. I think when I was going into my junior year, he started as a freshman, yeah. But we made it and three of us have advanced degrees. My older sister taught school for thirty years, she’s now retired. I got a master’s and a doctorate. My younger sister has a law degree, she’s an appellate court judge now. And my brother went into the military, but he also got a master’s degree, and he retired as a full colonel a few years ago. Yeah, we worked hard, we had a very strong work ethic.

	F:	So how was it growing up in Hampton?





	T:	You know, Ayana, it was interesting. I grew up in the [19]50s, I moved to Hampton in [19]57 when I was seven. What was interesting—and at seven, and eight, and nine, and ten, you really don’t know the world as Black and White—it was very segregated. And at some point, you realize that. I don’t know whether it’s when you walking to school and the kids drive by on the school bus and throw rulers and pencils, and call you the n-word, or when you open a textbook and it’s been used by several people and you don’t recognize any of the names written in it because it came from the White school to our school, and it’s in very bad shape, did that too. Or going downtown, and, you know, your mother being told she can’t try on a dress. Either you buy it or you don’t buy it. But you aren’t allowed to try on hats and dresses. And there were the Colored and White fountains, but it was life. I mean, you didn’t know anything else. You didn’t know it was different. And then as you get older, and you start those pre-teen years and the interesting thing was you went to segregated schools, of course, but our neighborhood was integrated. And that’s where the confusion, I guess, came as a young child. The kids we played with were White, my neighbors in front of me were White, the neighbors to one side of me were White and the neighbors behind us were White. It was real interesting in Hampton during those days because we went to separate schools. And those kids could walk to school, because there was a school right around the corner from my house, Jane H. Bryan, I’ll never forget it. But we couldn’t go there, but that’s where the kids we played with went to school. So that was always interesting. And there were Black kids in the neighborhood and White kids, and we just played together, but we





went to different schools. And the only time I ever went into Jane H. Bryan it was my mother’s voting precinct. And she always took me with her when she went to vote. And you’d go in there and you’d see these shiny halls and these beautiful little classrooms, and you know. But we had our own little world, too. We had our church, we were big in our church, and my mother made sure we got advantages. There was a group—and I think they still exist—called Jack and Jill, and it was specifically for Black kids to give them those experiences that they wouldn’t get in the Whiter society because we were Black. We had social events, we went on field trips, we were in Hampton, and Hampton University was there, and so we’d go on campus and we’d see ballet performances and symphony performances. It was interesting. It was even made more interesting I thought, I told you my dad left—that was another whole experience, not having my dad there. Who we all loved very much and back then, there wasn’t a lot of divorce. I don’t know if it was a stigma or I felt it—I felt all the other kids had their mothers and fathers, and I didn’t. So that was hard. And then came that time in the mid [19]60s when the Civil Rights Movement began, even though I was aware of it before then because I still spent summers with my father and my grandparents in Raleigh. And my grandfather was active in the Civil Rights Movement in Raleigh. And I was there one summer—I must have been about eleven or twelve—and the phone rang late one night, and it was the minister from our church. And he called my grandfather, and after they hung up, I heard my grandfather say to my grandmother they burned a cross in Reverend Ward’s yard. The Ku Klux Klan. I remember him talking about it and he talked about it that Sunday in church, you





know, he woke up because he saw the flames coming out of his window. They had burned a cross on his front yard and he said that’s not going to stop us. I can remember being there—saw more of that in Raleigh than I did in Hampton, you know, the whole Civil Rights Movement. I remember being in Raleigh one Easter holiday and my grandmother had us downtown, and they were having a parade, and the Ku Klux Klan marched down the street in full regalia, on this big white horse—that was a big horse—and they had on the white hoods. And they’re marching down Fayetteville Street, which was the main street in Raleigh, in broad daylight and on the Saturday before Easter. There were things like that, you know, not being able to go into Walgreens. I still had this bad taste about Walgreens in my mind just until recently because it was one of the places that they really didn’t want Black folks in Walgreens. And there were a lot of others, too, but Walgreens was just really nasty and bad about it. And I just started using Walgreens in the last couple of years. I mean, that’s a memory that I just recall so vividly from my preteen years. It took me almost fifty years to go into a Walgreens. It was an interesting time. I remember my grandfather, when we were still living in Raleigh, taking me to the civic theater to hear Reverend Martin Luther King speak and he had Rosa Parks with him. It was right after the Montgomery Bus Boycott. And why he chose me out of the four grandchildren to pick, I don’t know, but he took me with him to the civic auditorium. I remember clearly Dr. King, so this would have been about [19]56. Because I remember I was six years old and hearing Dr. King speak, and he had Rosa Parks on stage with him. So there were those things, there were a lot of movers and shakers in





Raleigh. It was one of the most—Raleigh, Virginia, all those segregated states— but Raleigh seemed to move forward more. In Raleigh there was little or no interaction with White people. I mean, they didn’t live in our neighborhoods, you didn’t see them unless you went downtown. There was just not that kind of interaction. But in Hampton, it was different, like I said. They lived in the same neighborhoods.

	F:	So you got a taste of I guess, both sides of the section.



	T:	Yes, and I’m sure there were racial tensions and things going in Hampton at the time. I just wasn’t aware of them, and I guess I was aware in Raleigh because my grandfather was so involved in it with the church and things. So it was an interesting childhood, no different from any other Black child growing up. We were probably poor and didn’t know it. I mean, we didn’t get everything or had anything that we wanted. Things were special. I mean, if you did get them. And then as I got into my teen years, in [19]65, [19]66, I really became aware and things are happening. Started wearing afros, wearing red, black and green, and the power sign, and feeling pretty good. And I finished high school in [19]68, and that was the last year of my high school. All of my friends from junior high—when we left junior high in [19]65 was the first year that they integrated schools, and they were allowing, if you wanted to, Black kids could go to the White high school. I opted not to. My three best friends decided to, and I was talking with them, one of my friends—my mother died last month.

	F:	Oh, I’m sorry.





	T:	And I was home—thank you. I didn’t expect her to die, but she did—And I was home and I was there for two weeks last month, and so one of my childhood friends spent a lot of time with me. And we had gone to junior high and college together, and we just remained friends for the last—since we were thirteen, so a long time. And I said “Why did you go to Kecoughtan?” and she said—and her daddy came over to visit, and he’s like 89, 90—and he said, “You know, I can remember why we sent”—my friend’s name is Deborah—to Kecoughtan, and he said, “Somebody had to go.” And so they decided—my mother left it up to me.

And she said, “It’s your choice.” And I opted not to go. Well for one thing, all my life, I’ve been waiting to go to Phoenix High School and it’s the only Black high school in Hampton. I mean, I’ve been waiting to get over there all my life. And now you tell me, and she said, “It’s up to you.” My mother said, “It’s your choice,” but my friends’ parents decided they needed to go over there, that somebody needed to go and it was going to be them. And I opted not to go.

	F:	You hear a lot of different perspectives, I guess, with integration. There are a lot of people that say it was positive in a lot of ways and there are others who say it was negative and it still has negative implications for Black students. How do you feel?

	T:	Well, not having made that decision, but talking to my friends that did—we were always together on weekends. They didn’t socialize with their classmates there. I think they missed out on something. I really do. We all ended up at Hampton University together, we came back together, but we continued to be friends throughout that. But at Phoenix High School, I had an opportunity to learn





leadership skills, to run for class secretary, or whatever I ran for, the homecoming activities, or go out and cheer my football and basketball teams. It was just a spirit thing and feeling like you belonged. The teachers knew you, they made sure that you were doing what you needed to do. You felt you were cared about. They didn’t get that. I still feel I made the right decision. I just think—I don’t know that it happens now, but back then, in [19]65, it was a novelty, I think, to the White teachers and students, to have these Black kids there. But they were largely ignored. They didn’t have an opportunity to participate in those events and things going on. They don’t have any lasting friendships from those White students they went to school with. What they did to my high school—what they called integration—was they brought in two or three White teachers. They integrated the teaching staff, but no White students came to our school, and they had the option of coming to our school, but none of them chose to come. I’m not surprised. You know, I talked to some of the people I know here when this integration went down here and they dismantled the Black high school here, Lincoln, and there’s still some really hard feelings about that decision to close that school. The high school back then was an integral part of the community. I mean, adults went to the football games and basketball games because people weren’t as mobile as they are now. You grew up there, you went to school there, you lived there, you got married there, you had your children there, you died there. So it was a sense of community. It was like being home last month for such a long period of time and seeing people I hadn’t seen in forty years, you know, I left there in [19]72. So, I’m seeing teachers my mother taught that taught





me, who are like—my mother was 83, so these folks are in their eighties, and they’re still around—and they remember you, I mean they came up to me at the wake or the funeral, or they came by the house, and, “Little Portia, you all grown up!” I’m sixty years old, yes, I am grown up. But they always see you as this kid running down the hall at school or you taught them. I remember seeing the choir director, Mr. Krump, and I sang in the choir, and my brother was sitting next to me. He said, “Yeah, you wouldn’t let me sing,”—something he wanted to sing and he said—he remembered, forty years later—and he said, “And I made the right decision then.” He’s telling my brother this, it’s so funny. It’s such a sense of community and I’ll never go back there to live, but it was so refreshing and reassuring. I felt so safe, all these people, and being in my church where I was baptized. It was such a feeling of, I’m home. You might say, “Well, why didn’t you ever go back?” Because I made a life for myself here. I’ve lived here thirty five years, and so this is my home now. But that was my home, I guess I could say I have two homes, and then for years I still thought of Raleigh as home. But then my father died and my grandparents died, my aunts died, and then I have no relatives there, I have no reason to go there. But I’m sure if I did and I drove down those streets where I used to run around all summer, and walk, I would feel that. But what it says to me is: it’s the people, the people that make home. So, seeing all those people last month made me really feel at home, almost so to the point that I didn’t want to leave and come back here, and I said, “But you got a job.” But, yeah, it did feel safe. It’s the people, not the houses or the necessarily, being in my church felt good.





	F:	I was going to ask you about your church—



	T:	Because I grew up in that church, it’s a Baptist.



	F:	It was a Baptist. What role did it play, I guess, in the community?



	T:	Well, and if there were things going on there about civil rights, I don’t recall them. Maybe I wasn’t in church when those things were happening. My mom didn’t go to that or didn’t take me with her, but things were going on because there were some changes in Hampton, and it seemed to go smoothly. I don’t remember any racial incidents in Hampton. I mean, there may have been some, but I wasn’t a part of them. The role the church played for me was one of really—I always had a strong spiritual faith because we were just in the church. I mean, you went to Sunday school, you went to the eleven o’clock service, and then back in those days, you went back at six o’clock for BTU, Baptist Training Union. When I was in Raleigh, my grandparents were in the choir, so I was with them at choir practice when I was there during the summer, or Wednesday night service. I went to vacation bible school during the summer, and then when I was too old to be in bible school, I went and I worked, either helping kids make pot holders or little ash trays, or I working in the kitchen getting little punch and snacks together. And then my folks were buried there and my sister got married there, and, you know, the minister knew us. He just knew us, and even my father who wasn’t a big church goer, he still knew him as a part of the Taylor family. My grandfather was superintendent of the Sunday school and chairman of the deacon board, my grandmother was a deaconess and sang in the choir. It was just part of life. And my grandfather when I was there in my grandparents’ home, Sunday was sacred.





I remember one Sunday getting up to iron something I was going to wear to church, and you don’t iron on Sundays, you don’t play cards on Sundays. The only thing we could do on Sundays that seemed non-secular was go to the movies. They’d let us go to the movies on Sunday. But Sunday was a sacred day, and then people came home with you from church for dinner. And I remembered when I moved here, my first thought was “I haven’t found a church.” And nobody asked me—and when I did find one, nobody said, “Well, would you like to go home with us for dinner?” That’s what you did, but nobody did that. I thought maybe it’s different here, you know, they don’t do that here. But every Sunday after church, my grandparents would invite somebody home, and then it was always my job to set the table, and make sure the napkins and everything were out. But every Sunday, somebody came home. And so you got to know people like that and it played a big role in my life. Which is surprising that today, I don’t have a church home. I had one here and that’s a long story, and I loved that church and I still love that church, but I got married. And my husband moved here once we married and he went with me to that church, and my husband is very powerful and he likes to kind of be in charge, and so he got involved in the church and he became chair of this board, and the pastor parish board, and this and that. And then they were going to make some moves with the pastors they do in the United Methodist Church because I was a Baptist, but now I’m a United Methodist because that’s the church I felt comfortable with and my best friend went there. And he disagreed with that, and so he left the church, and he followed this minister to a new church. And I was really torn, I didn’t feel like I





could stay in the church without him, and I didn’t want to follow him to this new church, so I’ve been without a church home for the last few years. And I do feel a void. I’m a spiritual person and I don’t believe I have to go to church to maintain my faith and my belief, and so that’s what makes it all right with me. But I miss the comradery, I miss the fellowship, I miss the singing, I miss hearing the sermon, I miss the kids that I’ve watched grow up in the church, you know, watching through nursery and elementary and graduating. Some of them are out here. And I’ve got one young man who’s out here, and when I see him, he comes by to see me about once a week, and I was asking him what’s he going to do on spring break, and he said he’s going to work a double shift at Publix, he bet. And I said, “Well, I’ll come by and see you.” And he said, “Or you could come by Mount Pleasant and see me on Sunday.” I mean, he just keeps trying to get me back, I love him to death. But I do—I miss that. Because I still have my faith and all that, but I miss that part of church, you know seeing people and hugging them and all of that. I miss that. And my husband said to me, “Well, why don’t you go back?” And I said because I don’t want that kind of conversation, “Well, Dr.

Jefferson goes here, Dr. Taylor goes here.” You know, when you see a couple and they’re going to different churches, and I know it happens a lot, not a lot, but it happens. I don’t want to be the topic of conversation for that or speculation. I mean, we use to have two church services and my husband likes football, so Sundays he wants football, so he wanted to go to the early morning. And I said, “No, I want to do the 10:15.” So a couple of Sundays during the winter, he would go to the early and I’d go to the later. And an usher really said to me, “Well





what’s this, your husband comes to the early service and you come to the late?” And I just politely said, “Mr. Jackson, mind your own business.” I mean, I know why he would, but if he made that kind of observation, then you know others are making it, and then, God forbid, I come back to that church and he doesn’t. It’s just the path of least resistance.

	F:	It’s nice though that you mentioned there is a difference between, I guess, the comradery here in Gainesville versus that—

	T:	Well, this community didn’t embrace me when I moved here and I didn’t know why. It’s a closed community, the Black community. Thirty five years now, I can say yeah, I know people, but my initial—they didn’t embrace me. You had to be from Gainesville it seems like, for the Black community and I’m talking outside of work, but just the community. It’s a close community. And even when I joined a church, there’s still not a lot of that. And then, I don’t know if they just weren’t accepting. There weren’t a lot of Black people working at Santa Fe when I came here. I was one of their only Black administrators, so there weren’t a lot of Black folks here for me to get close with. It’s a hard community to break into, it really is. It was for me anyway. A lot of folks back then—and I don’t know about now— they’d even gotten into skin colors. In North Carolina and Virginia, there are a lot of light-skinned Blacks like me. In fact, when I was home for my mother’s funeral, one of my cousins brought me something. It was a picture of my grandfather and he was one of like fourteen, this is on my mother’s side, and she brought me a picture with my grandfather and two of his sisters and three of his brothers, and I’d never seen that picture. She also did a little tracing for me, she’s into





genealogy, and she had all of my grandfather’s brothers and sisters, and then which knew, and then their parents. And next to a lot of them, it said mulatto, which you know in Virginia, North Carolina, folks born in 1800s and things, yeah, a lot of mulattoes. When I came here, there was a lot of focus on my skin tone and I’m like—A couple of my friends came up for the funeral, and they saw a lot of people that looked like me and fairer than me. And she said, “There are a lot of light-skinned people in Virginia, aren’t there?” And I said, “Well, yeah, no more so in Hampton than any other parts of Virginia or North Carolina where I grew up.” And these weren’t necessarily family members, these were just people who came by, friends and people. And I got this funny feeling that they equated if you’re light-skinned, you think that you’re better than everybody, or you’re not as Black, and you’re not as whatever. And so I got some of that when I first got here. As a consequence, with the exception of one, my friends here, most of them are White. My early friends here that I made and I still continue with those friendships today. Because they were accepting of me and they wanted to do stuff. “Come on, let’s go out to dinner, let’s go to a movie.” Wasn’t in interracial dating so much though that never appealed to me. But female friends, I do have some White female friends, yeah. But never got into the interracial dating. I did. I take that back. I have, and some fine men, but I also knew they weren’t going to take me home to mama, okay? So I didn’t get serious. It was dating. It was going out, it was hanging out. Nothing serious. Because I knew that wasn’t going to happen. They’ll date you, but they ain’t taking you home to mama, okay? Well, back then they weren’t, I don’t know today is probably totally different, so thank





you lord, a different world. And I don’t know think people—my age is probably still, but your age, younger than our college students are going public. And I see these grandmothers with these mixed babies and they’re loving them up, I love it. I just absolutely love. And I used to say “Not during my lifetime,” but I never thought I’d see a Black president during my lifetime and I was proven wrong. But I think the only way this is going to become a colorblind society is with more interracial marriage and children. Because people love their grandchildren and they don’t care if they’re green, purple, Black, White. They love their grandchildren, and the cutest thing to me is to see this older White guy with these obviously biracial grandkids, and they’re just loving them up. I said, “That’s what going to have to happen to change the hearts of some people.” And you know, it’s happening. But it didn’t happen back in the [19]60s and early [19]70s when I was growing up, so I’m glad of that. But the Black community in Gainesville—and I wasn’t in a sorority, I wasn’t a sorority girl type. That never appealed to me. So I didn’t have the sorority to get to know folks through. I just said, “Taylor, you’re out here on your own.” And I’m jumping around, Ayana, and I don’t mean to, but at some point I was approached by the folks from channel five, WUFT. It was [19]83, a producer had interviewed me, they were thinking about doing a half hour community affairs show, and just talked about particular things that impacted the Black community and minority community in Gainesville. They came to see me about that I thought would be some good topics, and I gave them some. And he called me a week later and asked me if I’d be interested in auditioning to be the host, and I said I’d never done TV work. And he said, “Well,





we kind of want someone that’s not professional that can talk to people and ask the right questions, but can also help us identify some folks, and we’d like you to audition.” So I go down and I sit on the stage with him, and he gives me a little sheet that tells me about him and gives me three minutes to read, and says then ask me questions about myself. And at the end they said “We’ll be in touch, we’ll call you, don’t call us.” But they did call me, and so for ten years I had this talk show. Started in [19]83. It was half an hour and it was called Reflections on WUFT TV, this is channel five. And so, I did it from [19]83 to [19]93. I took a little break because I was busy at work and it took a lot to produce a half hour show, believe it or not, but then I went back in [19]96 and I did it until [19]98 I think is when we did the last show, wrap it. As a result of that, the people knew me. Not that they didn’t already know, but then they knew me. They were watching the show. It was the only show they had in Alachua County hosted by somebody Black, talking about Black people, and it aired twice a week. It aired on Sunday mornings, and it aired sometime in the afternoon or evening during the week.

And so I’d be out in the mall, or the grocery store and stuff. I’m at a red light, I’m sitting there with the window down and these two women, “Hey Portia!” And I’m like, “Hey!” I don’t know them, they don’t know me. But all the sudden, people recognize you. Not just Black people, but White people too. Because it was on channel five and a lot of people watched the TV. And so all of the sudden, everybody knows me. I can’t go anywhere, it’s “Hey, Portia,” and I started getting asked to emcee this, judge this. I was doing so much of that—I mean, I didn’t have a free night. I was either out emceeing a banquet or emceeing a debutante





thing or a fashion show or a scholarship something. It just kept me busy. I was all right with that. I enjoyed it. I don’t know if I’m a ham or what, but I liked doing that, and I really enjoyed doing the show, too. I learned a lot doing the show.

	F:	As you mentioned, it was one of the only shows where the Black community was able to see a Black woman on TV, what impact do you think that had?

	T:	I think it was very positively received, I think, by both Black and White communities. It gave people an opportunity, ‘cause I’d get calls, “I need to come on your show, we need to talk about this, we need to talk about that.” I’d run it by my producer, he’d like it. So they saw it as an avenue to get out their issues, and they don’t have that now because, like I said, there’s been nothing like that since. But it was an avenue, not just to vent, Ayana, but to inform, let people know what’s on their minds. And it wasn’t bitching necessarily, it was an informational thing. And if it was something that was controversial, I had to have both sides there, I couldn’t just get on one side of view. You needed everybody there, both sides to this argument. So I think it was well received, and then I got to do fun stuff, like, I used to narrate the Homecoming Parade. Then they did this fanfare and fireworks every Fourth of July, so then they asked me to do that, too, to be the emcee for that. I had a co-host Bill Savis, we’d have a ball with that. I’m out there, not just for the Black community, but the White community. The Homecoming Parade, and fanfare and fireworks, that was seen as a community event. So out of that show grew those other things. And then in 1990, when we opened our center downtown and I went down there to open our downtown center, and be the first director, that just opened up a whole other world. A whole





other world, because everybody wanted to know well, what is this, what is Santa Fe doing downtown. So I had to go to every rotary and Kiwanis and Altrusa and everywhere to talk about this new vision the college had. So I was just out there. I was out there for a long time.

	F:	What were some of the topics that you discussed on the shows? I know you just said they were community topics, but–

	T:	Oh, gosh, there were so many. I remember one issue they were having some Black parents with the school board. They felt that all the Black kids were being funneled into this—I don’t think they even have it anymore—but they used to have different tracks. And the students weren’t even aware that they weren’t on track to go to college and college preparatory courses. And then when they tried to get in some place, they were told they didn’t have enough credits and this or that, they were being steered toward the vocational track. That was one of the things I know we talked about it at length. Oh gosh, there were so many different things. We talked about things going on, there used to be a seminary lane housing project over on Fifth Avenue. And one of my best guests always was Tony Jones, who’s now the police chief, but back then he was a beat cop. We talked about different issues affecting the Black community: the drug use, that kind of thing. Oh gosh, the sorority used to bring in the Ebony Fashion Fair every year, so they would come on and promote. “This is coming, you need to,” and they would show a little clip from that and what the money would go for. Some were more serious, some were lighter. Had families on who had adopted like ten children, and then I’d also have on the second part of the show—there was a





program called One Church, One Child, where they were trying to get everyone in churches because we had all these Blacks kids out there waiting to be adopted. They weren’t necessarily special needs but that was the name they used to have if you were a certain age, or if you were a minority, and these kind of things, two or three siblings they wanted to keep together, your chances were less of being adopted. So they’d come on and talk about that, and have pictures of the kids, these cute kids and you try to convince me to adopt them. “I would like to, but I can’t. I’m single”—at the time I was single—“Yeah, single people can adopt,” so in the question of me talking to you, things like that would come out, that you can be single and adopt. You don’t have to be rich, you don’t have to live in a big house, these kids just need a home. So we talked about Black adoption, we talked about relationships between Black men and Black women.

We just covered a lot of different things and then if there was someone famous coming to town, we could finagle them. I interviewed Winnie Mandela. I interviewed John Amos, who’s an actor, used to be on Good Times. This woman named Pearl or something—she was here making a movie, Doc Hollywood, with Michael J. Fox. And so I had her on. Virgil Hawkins was a Black man from Florida that applied in 1949 or whatever to UF law school, and they didn’t admit him. And he went off somewhere else, and then he filed suit. A year before he died, in fact, UF law school has a Virgil Hawkins scholarship program. I had Mr. Hawkins on. He was a delightful gentleman, just delightful. And I got to interview him right before he died, which was just so exciting. There was a noted professor at UF, Jim Haskins, who’s a rather prolific writer. He now also happens to be a





friend. And so I’d have him on and he’d talk about growing up in Demopolis, Mississippi or Alabama, or wherever he was from because there were some interesting people at UF to interview too.

F:   Yeah, because they’re actually doing a Jim Haskins exhibit now.



	T:	Oh yeah, he’s a friend. And I’ve got books that he autographed for me. So things like that, sometimes it’d be of educational, literary nature. There was a woman that did quilts, Faith Ringgold was her name, beautiful quilts. I mean she’s all over the county and she was in town, had her quilts, so I had the opportunity to interview her. There was a photographer who, when they first back in the [19]80s had the Mariel boatlift and all the Cubans came—no, these were Haitians that were down in Miami and they put them in this Krome Detention Center. And he had gone down and had photographed folks in this, and so we talked about those. So we’d talk about anything. And people would call me with ideas and I’d run them by Vinnie Jones, that was my producer. “So Vinnie, you think this is a show?” “Well, let’s look at it.” So just about anything.

	F:	Is there one show or topic in particular that you vividly remember from the show?



	T:	Yes, there’s one show that I remember. And I did hundreds of shows over ten years, just keep that in mind. But there’s one interview that still stands out and when we were done, he said “This is one of the best interviews you’ve ever had,” and I said, “It is. You shouldn’t say so, but it is.” Rodney Long, do you know Commissioner Long?

	F:	No.





	T:	Now he’s a county commissioner. Back in the [19]80s, he was a city commissioner. And he had a rather colorful past, he’s from Gainesville. He had a colorful youth, let me put it like that. He’d been in trouble, I think he had some drug charges, I think he got shot once, so when he decided to run for city commissioner, everybody just thought it was a joke. But he did run, and he won, he was on the city commissioner. And at the time, the city manager, Paul White, was Black. Gainesville had a period there where we had a lot of Black people in charge. The police chief, Atkins Warren, was Black; the city manager, Paul White was Black; the assistant county manager, Joe Bradshaw, was Black; Sandra Blunt that ran the jail, was Black. You had Charles Chestnut on the school board, Cynthia Chestnut had been on the city commission and here comes Rodney. So there was a period in the mid to late [19]80s here where there was like this—I don’t know what happened or how it happened, but all of the sudden you looked up and there were all these Black people in charge, okay? I knew it wasn’t going to last long, and it didn’t, and so systematically, folks were targeted. And Rodney had been targeted. I mean, FBI was down here—all kinds of people. I don’t even remember what they had charged him with, but they implicated the city manager and it was all over. It was all over and it had ended, they didn’t find anything, but it was kind of bad when folks were—I was told they were even involving me, and I’m like “For what?” Anybody Black, high profile—and I don’t know who was behind it—to this day I don’t know who was behind it, and it’s not important, but it happened. But they went after Rodney and they went after Paul. And they were alleging all kind of things, from Paul’s city car, when they took it in they found a





roach in his ashtray. I said, “It was that dirty, he had bugs?” They said, “No, a roach, a joint.” And I’m like, “Please!” But it was over and Rodney was out of office, and I don’t know if he wasn’t re-elected or elected not to run, but he wasn’t on the city commission and this was after the fact. And so the interview was just talking about that whole experience. And I remember saying to him during the interview, I said, “What happened to you could happen to anyone. It could happen to me.” And I remember as we were ending up, I said, “Well, is this it for Rodney Long? Are you done with public service, public life?” And he said—I’m trying to remember exactly how it was said, but it was rather profound—but it was basically, “Don’t count me out, don’t count me over.” And then years later he ran for county commission. He’s now in his third term, but I think this is his last term because he’s had some economic problems and every time if it were you or me, it’d be our financial problems. With him, it’s in the paper. It’s in the paper that he’s behind on his American Express bill, I mean down to that he owes them seventeen thousand. I mean details. I guess somebody goes down to the courthouse and looks for filings and they had filed suit against him. And then two weeks later after that, it came up that they’re about to foreclose on his house.

And this is all happening within the last month, so this is the kind of thing if he runs for re-election next year, they’re going to bring all this stuff up. They may even go back to the stuff that happened in the [19]80s and they just pull stuff up. Someone asked me not too long ago, “What do you think about Commissioner Long not paying his American Express bill?” And I said, “Well you know these are hard times.” “Yeah, but if you make up this.” “Yeah, well you already have an





opinion. You just want me to affirm your opinion.” And I said, “If he weren’t a public official, this wouldn’t be news.” And it shouldn’t be news. “Yeah, but if he’s managing the county’s budget, and he’s managing my tax dollars, and he can’t manage his own home budget, then why should he be managing these millions of tax dollars?” And I said, “Then you have an opinion. You don’t really want to know what I think.” But that interview with Rodney was one of the most—it just stands out as memorable in my mind, the whole thirty minutes, just the flow. The whole conversation. It was just eye opening to a lot of people about Rodney, the real Rodney, because he was very honest with me, and my questions were rather probing, and he was honest. He didn’t try to flim-flam me, or put me off, he was very honest. And it was a good interview. It was just like you and I sitting here, talking. And I’m sitting here and he’s sitting there, and I finally just put my questions away and we just had a conversation. And Rodney wasn’t a friend, he’s still not a friend, there’s always been this—I don’t know why this and he has this antagonistic attitude towards me—but for thirty minutes, it was good. Now it was exciting to interview Jesse Jackson and Winnie Mandela and the Commissioner of Education and all those people. But for some reason, that’s the interview that sticks out in my mind. Maybe it’s ‘cause I could relate to what he’s saying and what had happened to him and the fact that there but for the grace of God go I. Someone could have just decided, “Let’s target Portia Taylor and see what we can find.” And if you look long and deep enough in anybody, you can find something. And I don’t know what they’d find, but they could find something that I had maybe forgotten about, not even remember, not even aware that it was





immoral, illegal, or whatever. But it just showed how, if people want to get you, they can get you, and they can put things out there that may not be true, but by the time you’ve proven that it’s not true, people don’t read that little retraction at the bottom of page six behind the tire ad, but it’s on the front page. And some people believe whatever they read in the paper. And so if you see, “City Commissioner Rodney Long being investigated for lying to the Grand Jury,” or whatever, that’s all they’ll ever remember. Or he sold drugs, whatever it was, I don’t even remember what the issue was. I’d say there were just too many Black people in charge in Gainesville and Alachua County for the powers that be at the time. And since that time, Ayana, we have not had that kind of representation in our governments here. We haven’t, we just haven’t. We’ve been relegated to, okay, you can have one city commissioner, you can have one school board member, you can have one county commissioner.

	F:	Do you see that kind of—and I’m hopping now, too—but do you see that reiterated on campus with student government? Because I know even with our student government at UF, there are very few numbers of minorities—especially Black students—who ever gain positions.

	T:	And I think it’s harder at UF than it is here, because we’re a community college, we’re open access. And our Black students have really gotten involved, our student body president last year—not this current one, but the one last year— was Black, the year before that, Kenny Antony, was Black. So we’ve had—and we’re having elections yesterday and today in our student government elections—and actually as I was talking to our Student Life director, and the party





that’s leading is—I don’t know if he’s running for president or vice—but it’s a young Black man. So not so much here, but our students who leave here and go to UF come back and see me, and one was here to come and see me last spring, and he ended up running for a senator or something. He said, “You just can’t imagine how hard it is. Blue Key runs things, I’m not in Blue Key.” He said, “Just to get this senator position I’m trying to run for.” What he’d had to do, I mean, the people he had to talk to. He says “Out here, I was a big fish in this little pond,” and I said, “Over there, you’re a little minnow, aren’t you?” And he said, “Yeah.” And the other thing that upset me—and he’s real tall and handsome—he graduated, by the way, this past June.

	F:	What was his name?



	T:	Oh God, and I’m seeing him in my face. F:	Was it Avril?

	T:	Avril, yes. That’s who I’m talking about. He would come back and see me. And he said, “You know, they assume because I’m tall, I’m an athlete, I’m here on my athletic scholarship.” He said, “They assume I play football or basketball.”

He said, “I don’t play sports.” And Avril and Kenny, you know Kenny Antony?



	F:	Unh-uh.



	T:	Well they were friends, and Kenny was the president, Avril was like vice- president or treasurer—he was something in student government. He’s just a fine fellow, I just love him to death. I said, “I wish you were my son,” he and Kenny both. But he would come back and see me, and then his then-girlfriend, they broke up, Tiffany. Did you know Tiffany?





	F:	Unh-uh.



	T:	They broke up once they got over there, and it’s different over there. I said, “Over here, you’re small and you get over there.” Anyway, they went kapoot. He says, “They think I’m an athlete. You just can’t be here on your academics, you either got here through a special program, or you’re on an athletic scholarship. And I had to tell them, neither one. I’m neither.”

	F:	Do you think a lot of the Black students who transfer over to UF face the same problems?

	T:	Well what they tell me is that they can’t get really involved because, by the time they’ve come as a junior, these students have formed their cliques as freshmen and sophomores. And they’ve already made these decisions, and the cliques are formed, and it’s hard to get in. I think those of our students who have brothers or sisters or girlfriends or boyfriends at UF while they’re here, and they go to the parties and get involved, that it’s easier for them to transition then those who have never had any interaction with UF or their students. I think that’s the case. I also think when they get over there, they’re surprised at how large it is and how different. I mean, I got an open door policy. You can walk in here to see me, and students do, and I walk around campus and I know them and they know me. But they don’t have that kind of access to VPs and upper administration. That stands for the president the same way. If students want to see him, they can get in there and see him. I bet a lot of students ain’t going in to see old Bernie.

	T:	Okay, I’m just sayin’. But here, I mean, just the nature. We’re open access, it’s not special admissions, you don’t have to have a 4.0 or 1600 on the SATs. It’s





like, y’all come, all come. But that kind of policy, you’re going to have a more diverse student body. You have access to us because we believe in open access, I mean, that’s what we do. And then they get over there and find this closed system in many respects. It’s interesting. And I had one student come back that told me that we were doing students here a great disservice by being accessible and coddling students, and helping them. And I said, “How is that a disservice?” “You’re not preparing us for UF and you’re not preparing us for the larger world.”

	F:	Maybe it’s just that UF is the one who’s not doing it correctly.



	T:	That’s what I said, “Well, at least now you know the difference between being coddled and helped and having access versus not. Which one do you prefer?” “Yeah, well, that doesn’t prepare us for the world that we’re going into when we leave UF. It’s not going to be warm and bright.” “Well, you don’t know, it depends on what kind of world you go into and what you choose to do when you leave UF. So at least you’ve had a taste of both.” “Well, I went over there expecting if I needed something I could just go in and see somebody. They don’t care about me. I’m a number. I don’t even see my teachers and I’ve got TAs and they don’t know me.” And I said, “Don’t they have office hours?” He laughed at me.

Anyway, I said, “I still don’t agree with that. I don’t think we’re doing a disservice at you. You had an opportunity here to develop leadership skills, to know people, to know how to approach people and what you’re supposed to do, so you’re ready for life. You had a taste for both, look at it like that.” My niece is graduating from UF this spring and one of her friends is working with the McNair. And she





was working on a project for a paper she was doing for them called—she talked to me about it briefly, she didn’t go into a lot of detail—but she said whether students who come in with labels, they’re admitted and these have these labels, whether their experience is different from those who just come in. And I said, “Yeah, well we don’t label students here.” But that was her research project.

	F:	That’s an interesting topic.



	T:	I thought it was very interesting.



	F:	Because I know came in through UF on an AIMS scholarship. It specifically targets student who had high GPA but low test scores, or high test scores but low GPAs. But the majority of the people who came through that program were all Black students and you had a couple others that were there.

	T:	Rural Whites or Hispanics.



	F:	Yeah, so even though the program has significantly changed because the program’s geared towards bringing in minority students, have significantly weakened or lessened at UF, that title still has following. I still register before the other kids register. I still have that special advisor that I go to and talk about my academic plans and everything.

	T:	Was that by Powers Program? F:	Yeah.

	T:	I think Claire came in through that, too. Although she finished IB and had high GPA, and I don’t know what her scores were, but—





	F:	It seemed to be that a lot of the Black students regardless of—because I was in the top—I graduated with honors from my high school and everything, but that title still made you feel as if you were somehow—

	T:	A special admit.



	F:	Yeah.



	T:	Yeah and that’s what she was doing her paper on, because she was one of those, I think. I think that’s it. Even though she brought in 24 credits with her from her IB program, she took six summer B. She came in her freshman year with 30 hours. I said, “You’re a sophomore already and you haven’t even moved into the dorm yet.” And maybe that’s why she wanted to do that project.

	F:	Well, let me, I guess backtrack a little bit. But what brought you here?



	T:	I actually came in to work at the college. Alright, when I finished high school, I went to Hampton. Hampton Institute then, now Hampton University. So I’m still in an all-Black situation, okay, even though I had White teachers at Hampton because Hampton—and I went there in [19]68 as a sociology major with the goal of being a social worker. And so my senior year—and I worked all the way through because there were four of us—I wanted to go to school for social work. And I applied to Michigan, Atlanta U and Chapel Hill, UNC. Atlanta accepted me, no money; Michigan accepted me, no money. Carolina said “Yes, we’d love to have you and we’re going to give you money.” [Laughter]

	T:	Now, my sister, Carol, the one that’s younger than I am, had gone to UNC undergrad and did a major in English, with the goal of law school. She’s a real go-getter. She did undergrad in three years, got accepted into law school of





Carolina, so she—when I applied there and was accepted to the school of social work, mine was a two year program, law was three. She was going into her second year of law when I went into my first year of my MSW program. So when I got to Chapel Hill in [19]72, it was the first time I had ever been in an integrated school situation. So bear with me, I’m leaving Hampton with just thirty five hundred students. You know Hampton: small, private. They might have six thousand now, but back then in [19]68 to [19]72, there were about three thousand, thirty-five hundred of us. So here I go to Chapel Hill in [19]72 and twenty thousand students. I’m like, wow. And they all White. Imagine my sister going there as a freshman in [19]68 as one of the few Black students admitted back then. And we were talking about this the other night on the phone, and she knew every Black student on Carolina’s campus because there weren’t that many. When I got there four years later, there were a little bit, but I got to know them all. I mean there just weren’t that many, but that’s when I said, “Okay.” I think that’s when I started looking at people, saying I can have friends that are non-Black, and I didn’t have that many, to be honest with you, because there was a core of Black students there: the ones that I knew from my sister, and then there were some in my class, and I had two lasting friendships. They brought nine of us in, they brought in ninety students, and no, it’s not a quota, but 10% of us were Black, okay. Come in. [Brief interruption] So there were nine of us in that part, two of those people we’re still friends. So I had them, but now I’m in an educational environment where I’m sitting in a classroom, and we were kind of scattered around, so at no time were there more than two of us in a class at a





time. And so now I’ve got to prove that I should be here, okay, that I’m not here as a part of a quota, that I should be here. I have every right to be at the University of Carolina Chapel Hill enrolled in a master’s program in social work. So anyway, I rolled through that program pretty nice, it’s a two year program. It’s fine, I’m worthy, I can do this. I get my MSW, but during the course of doing that, I have to do an internship. So the first one I did was with the Chapel Hill Housing Authority, and I kind of focused on teens and family-type things, but mostly the teens and all those problems. And you can always stay in the internship less than a year, so that started the second semester of my first year. My second year, you do a year-long internship, and I was talking with my advisor, and I wasn’t liking any of the places she was talking about and went and interviewed with Durham Social Services. I just wasn’t getting excited. And I said, “I’m not too excited about this social work thing,” based on the internship. And I worked with my folks, and I created an internship with the Chapel Hill police department. And I went in and convinced the police chief that you need a social worker, you don’t have to pay me, but I need to be here. I need an office. They gave me one up in the detective’s bureau between the evidence room and the vice squad. And my job was to work with the police when they saw teens on the street, you knew you were going to get in trouble, get them to me, and they would. “You can either end up in detention or you could go see Ms. Taylor.” “I don’t want to talk to Ms.

Taylor.” Now, I know a lot of these kids because they were in the projects and all that—“Oh that Ms. Taylor, okay.” But I really enjoyed it, and it was so successful that when I was—that summer, the town of Chapel Hill decided to create a





permanent police social worker position. I don’t know if they still have it, but they funded it and they had back then. But I was getting ready to graduate and I was like, “I don’t want to do social work.” And I was with these agencies—we just had a different mindset about how to work with clients. They thought I got too close to my clients, I was too involved, I wasn’t removed enough, I wasn’t, they didn’t say “cold enough,” but that’s not my nature, and I’m going to have a hard time. And so I’m debating, what am I going to do? I’m graduating in a month with my little fresh MSW. I don’t want to go work for the Orange County Department of Social Service. Well then, I’m going back to Hampton. My sister and I had talked about it—because she was graduating law, how about we open up our own practice. “You do the social work side, I do the lawyer side,” and I said, “We broke, how we going to.” Anyway. We talked and we both on the same mind we want to change the world, this is [19]72, this peace, love and happiness. And so now fast forward to [19]74, we’re graduating. And it’s still peace, love and happiness, and we want to save the world, how we’re going to do it? But she finds a way, she goes to work with legal aid. I’m in the cafeteria on Franklin Street getting lunch one day, and there’s this Black man in line. He’s in front of me and he strikes up a conversation, we start talking. He’d just move to Chapel Hill, he’d just got his PhD from Ohio State University. University had hired him in continuing ed, to run community adult education out of there. And so he asked me, “Are you with us?” And I said, “No,” he said, “Can I sit with you and talk?” And I said, “Yeah sure, I’d love to.” And so he’s just moving here and is wife and his little daughter, he’s looking to meet people, and so then he finds a way to ask, well I’m graduating





next month with a MSW and blah blah. And we just got to talking, and he says, “You know, as director of this program, I can hire an associate director.” And I said, “Really? Let me get you another cup of coffee over here.” And he said, “Yeah, and just talking with you just as free time, you might be what this office needs.” Well I knew what he meant later when I went up there to interview, they’re all White. You’re the only Black person in this whole building of folks. He said, “Let’s talk some more,” and he gave me a card and said, “Call me if you’re serious,” and I said, “Oh yeah.” So I waited a couple of days and I called him, and I went over to his office in Abernathy Holland, I’ll never forget. I said, “Tell me a little bit more about what you’re doing.” He said, “Well, they’re considering the community the entire state of North Carolina. UNC’s a flagship university, so when they do stuff to extension, they do it across the state. We’ll be doing different projects, educating the community on different things. It’s community education.” I said, “Yeah, that’s kind of, yeah.” So anyway, I interview, I meet all these directors and their dean, and anyway, they offer me the job. So July 1, I got a brand new job, a brand new degree, making twelve thousand five hundred dollars, which is all the money in the world back then. I’m home free, I’m just happy. I’m in Chapel Hill, and things are rolling along. I got exposed to these different organizations through the department I was working with, and that was the National University Extension Association, the Adult Educators, and they had money back then. You could travel, so I’d go to the regional conference, the national conference. And I go to these conferences and there was this one guy that worked at UF in continuing ed, and I’d always see him, nice guy. He’d





always be sure to single me out and speak to me, and there weren’t a lot of Black people there. So I always thought he was being very nice. One time I saw him at a meeting and he said, “Portia, you know, you really ought to think about coming to Florida.” And I said, “Really?” And he said, “Yeah, at the University of Florida.” I said, “Chester, I really don’t want to leave the southern part of heaven, I’m doing fine here.” And he said, “Send me your resume, just let me keep it on file,” so then one day he called me. And I don’t forget it, it was February, it was cold.

He said, “Portia, before you say no, it’s not a job at the University of North Carolina. He said, “There’s a community college, Santa Fe, they’re looking for a Dean of Community Education, continuing ed.” And I said, “Chester, you want me to leave the University of North Carolina to come work at a community college? You have got to be kidding me,” and I laughed at him. And we talked, I hung up the phone. Well couple days later, I get a call from the executive vice president at the college. He had a copy of my resume, and he and the president really would like to meet me. And I said, “Well thank you, Dr. Meyers, that’s so flattering. Can I get back to you?” I said, “Chester, what did you do?” “I know what you’re saying, but don’t just rule it out, Portia. You know, community college is an up and coming, this is a wave of the future. You really—” I said, “Chester, I don’t want to leave here,” and I said, “And I’m getting ready to apply for a PhD program at Carolina.” “University of Florida, we got a doctorate program coming out the yin yang, what do you want to study?” He said, “Tell you what, just come down and meet the people. That’s all you got to do, what’s the temperature out there now?” I said, “It’s about thirty four.” He said, “It’s seventy-two here.” I said,





“Okay, I’m coming.” So I book a flight, I come to Gainesville and he’s right, I step off the plane, it’s balmy, the palm trees are swaying, it’s seventy four. I’m all up in my North Carolina coat because I just can’t believe it’s forty degrees warmer anywhere in the world when I leave Chapel Hill. And my longtime boyfriend, I wanted to get married, he didn’t want to get married, and a month or two before we’d had a fight, and anyway we had broken up and I said, “Let me just go out here and meet these people.” So I do, and they’re nice people. And I’m going be a dean. They just wanted to meet and we talked. Chester took me over to UF and met some people over in the College of Education, talked to them about their doctorate program. And he shows me around Gainesville. I go to dinner with the vice president, his wife, and Chester. And then at the end of the evening, I go back and I think, “I’ve seen some nice people.” Think about my boss, the young guy out of Ohio State, I said, “He ain’t going nowhere. He just got this job. My chances of moving—” so anyway, I go back to Chapel Hill the next day and Don says, “How was it?” And I said, “They’re nice people.” He said, “Well, what’s it going to come?” I said, “I don’t know, it was just a meet and greet.” And a week later, I got a call. They want me to apply for the job. So I do, I apply, I do the application, send a resume. A week later, they want me to come down, do an official interview. I’m invited for an interview and I go in, meet the committee, they like me, they’re going to offer me the job. And I’m making thirteen thousand, they’re talking twenty thousand, I’m like [gasp]. Ayana, that’s a lot of money back then, you got to understand. So I said, “I’m going. I’m on my way to Gainesville, but I said, “I’ll be back, y’all. I’m going down there, I’m going to do this job.”





Wasn’t sure, but if anything I’d be there long enough to go to school and get a doctorate. I’m just going to do down and get this experience and this job. I’ll be back in North Carolina. It’s thirty five years ago this July. Everything I owned fit in a U-Haul. I put my little Toyota on the back of it, and I came down I-95, and that was in—by the time all that interview and all that wrapped up, it was April. And I was going to start July 1. So I went back and I told Don, “I’m leaving.” And so that’s how I got here. And that May or something, Bob, the guy I’d been dating that I’d broken up with, hadn’t heard from him in a couple months because we’d just got in this big fight and we’d been dating for three years. And yeah, I wanted to get married. I was twenty five. I wanted to get married and have children, and he had been married and was divorced. He had a little son, he wasn’t interested. He calls me one day at work and wants to know if I can have lunch with him. I said, “Okay.” And he lived in Durham, he came over to Chapel Hill. We went to lunch, halfway through, and he said, “I miss you.” I said, “I miss you, too.” Then he says, “I’ve been giving it a lot of thought,” and right there sitting in whatever restaurant it was, he asked me to marry him. And I looked at him, and I said, “Bob, I’m leaving town next month.” He said, “What?” I said, “I’m moving to Florida.” He said, “What?” And I said, “Yeah.” And so after he got over that and we went on. And I said, “So no, I can’t get married. I’m excited about this new life.” And Chester was the only person I knew in the whole state of Florida, so I’m excited about going down here, meeting new people, new job. I’m twenty five, I was going to be twenty six the next month. You know, when you’re twenty six and, as my grandmothers used to say, chick-chaw Nora, anything you were





responsible for. It was exciting and no, I wasn’t going to stay there and get married. My mindset had changed. So he said, “How you’re getting down there?” and I said, “Well, I’m going to get a U-Haul.” And he said, “I’ll move you.” I said, “Okay, that’s nice,” and he took off a week, packed me up, put me in a U-Haul, and brought me down and I said, “That was very nice of you.” He said, “I want to know where you are. So I can get you when it’s time, I’m coming to get you.” But anyway, that’s how I got here. And when I first got here that summer of [19]76, started that July, I did start a doctorate program that fall. I went crazy. I was a new school, a new job, twelve hours, a doctorate program. I couldn’t handle it, I was stressed out. I didn’t have any friends, no family, no support. So I dropped out of the program. That was in [19]76. I didn’t go back until three years later, I went back the fall of [19]79. But I was lonely. You know, Chester was a business relationship and he had a wife, he had a job and once he got me here, he kind of—okay. I mean, I saw him once in a while. I called my sister Carol, who when I moved here, she left Durham Legal Aid and went to work in Wilmington Legal Aid. Wilmington, North Carolina. And I called her and I said, “I’m dying here. I need you here, I need family. Somebody’s got to come here.” And she said, “What?” And I said, “No, I’m serious.” I said, “They got a university here,” and I had met through Chester a guy named Jim Allison, he was responsible —and I’m looking at the clock because my car’s in the shop and I got to pick it up before five thirty, we got a little time. And we can always continue another time if we run out. I called her—I met Jim Allison, he was an EAEO officer for the University of Florida, I met him through Chester. And I called him one day and I said, “Jim, I





have a sister who is in an attorney. Are there any possibilities for employment here at UF?” And he said, “Well, let me look into it.” So she got me her resume, I got it to Jim and they set up an interview for her to be a faculty member at UF. She went to the interview and she didn’t get the job. I think she was too young. She was like twenty five, most of the law students were older than that. So that didn’t work out, but then he called me back a couple weeks later, he said, “You think Carol would be interested in being a university attorney? University has a staff of attorneys and they were looking for an associate university attorney.” So I called her, I said, “You at all interested in this?” She said, “I’ll come down and look.” And she said, [sigh]. I said, “If they’re going to pay you to come down and interview, you can tell them you can only interview on Fridays. That way you come on Thursday, we can have a weekend. And they pay the plane fare, you stay with me.” So she comes down, she interviews, and I remember that after she had that, she said, “It went well.” And I said, “Did it?” And the attorney for the university—this guy named Tom Diggs, nice fellow because I got to know him— and she interviewed with Tom, and they were all males, and no females on staff, all White males. So here she is, Black and female. And she said it really went well. And then she said, “What am I going to do if they offer me that job?” I said, “Take it.” She said, “I don’t want to do that kind of law.” She said, “I want to represent the people.” I said, “I know, we all started out representing the people, right,” which is why I like community colleges. It was really more in line with my social work background and what I wanted to do than a university. Just this kind of students that were coming here. I said, “This might be my niche, okay, I like





what we’re doing here.” But I still thought I was going back to North Carolina. But anyway, I said, “Well, if you really don’t want it and they offer it to you, just tell them it’s not enough money.” And she’s making about thirteen thousand where she is doing law. Next week she goes back, she calls me, she says, “They called and offered me the job.” I said, “What’d you tell them?” She said, “I told them it wasn’t enough money.” I said, “How much did they offer?” She said, “Eighteen thousand.” I said, “You’re making thirteen.” She said, “I know, but you told me that’s what to say if I didn’t want the job.” I’m like, “But I didn’t know they were going to offer you eighteen thousand,” but anyway. She said, “I told them no, it wasn’t enough money. So they said, okay.” She called me back the next day, she said, “They called me back.” I said, “And?” She said, “They offered me twenty one.” I said, “What’d you tell them?” She said, “I told them I’d get back to them, what should I tell them?” I said, “You should tell them ‘when do you want me?’” I said, “You’re making thirteen thousand dollars for twenty one, do you know how much more that is and what you can do with that kind of money? And they don’t take state income tax out of your money here, and you don’t pay until the retirement, I mean come on.” She said, “I guess you’re right.” And I said, “Yeah.” So she came that spring of [19]77, that March. And she was here for two years and she said, “I need a different experience.” She became a public defender in Ft. Lauderdale. She had interviewed, applied, and got this job as a public defender. So now I got my sister, she’s not in Gainesville, but she’s in the state, she’s down the road. So every other weekend, I’m in my car heading to Ft.

Lauderdale because now I got a relative here, okay. And then she come to





Gainesville and then we’d travel together to go home for Christmas and stuff like that. So I’m feeling better. When she left the spring of [19]79 that’s when I said, “Okay, it’s time to get serious about whether you’re going to do this doctorate or not. Because now I’m twenty nine.” So then I got real busy with school and I finished all my coursework because I continued to work full-time. And then in the course of that, the president called me up one day and he said, “You know, I told you when we hired you that we had—you’re coming in at this job, but we see you doing more things.” He promoted me to the assistant to the president, which gave me a real global view of the college because I could get involved with everything: business affairs, student affairs, academic affairs. I said, “I like this community college thing. I really do, I really do like it. I like what we’re doing.” So I continue to work here, I worked on my coursework, I finished my coursework in [19]83 because I was doing it part-time and I messed around with my dissertation forever. I had a car accident, total loss my car, then I took some time off to write. The day I took off, I went in for a physical, found out I had to have a hysterectomy, I was on my back for six weeks. I get up, I start back writing, my dad dies unexpectedly. That set me back. So then I get back together, I start writing again, my grandmother dies. I’m like just, and then my chair calls me in.

He says, “I’m going to retire, you’re going to have to start over again with someone else.” I started writing and I didn’t stop writing until I finished that thing and they told me, “You done? You done everything?” And I said to this lady in Little Hall in the grad, I said, “I know there’s something else, because every time I think I’m done there’s one more little added dot or what else do I have to do?”





“You’re done,” and I said, “No. I know I need to bring you a receipt for something, what else do I have to do?” Because I’m not believing I’m done. Because this has been my life for six years, okay? And she finally looked at me and she said, “Dr. Taylor, you’re done.” And that’s the first time anybody called me Dr. Taylor and I’m like, “I am?” I start grinning and hugging that woman and she was like get away from me. I said “Thank you, Lord.” So now it’s [19]86, I got me a fresh little doctorate from UF, what am I going to do now? Let’s start looking around. Then they promoted me again here. So I said “I guess I’ll stay here.” Then four years rolls by, my president retires and a new president comes in and I said, “I guess it’s time to start going.” But then he says, “I want you to open the downtown center. I can’t think of anyone to do it other than you. This is a big step for the college and we need somebody to go out there and convince the community, and get people here, and blah blah blah.” So I go downtown and it’s a success. They said, “Well, maybe three or four years, you’ll have five hundred students down there.” I had a thousand students my first when I first went out. Open that summer I had a few, by the time I opened in the fall that year, I had a thousand students. By that following fall, I had fifteen hundred, and we just kept growing. It just took off.

	F:	Was all the feedback from the community all positive?



	T:	It was positive. They had me everywhere, speaking about the downtown center. I was all over the place. And so I had the downtown center, I had the center in Starke. I still had the offices out here that I have. I had all the public relations and continuing ed and printing services, PR, I still had all that, too. But the main thing





was running and opening that downtown center. And it was exciting, it was an exciting time, it was 1990. And then I really belonged to an organization called the League for Innovation in Community College. It was based at that time out of California, but they had League schools around the country. And they asked me if I’d do some consulting in leadership development particularly for minority mid- managers in community colleges across the country. And I said, “Yeah, I can do that.” And I’m also doing the TV show now, and I’m also doing this, but I agreed to do it. It was sponsored by the Kellogg Foundation, and the University of Texas at Austin. [Brief interruption] So they selected twenty five Kellogg fellows that we worked with for a year. And we visited other community colleges. We’d do an urban and then a rural, and then in the summer we’d go to Chicago, DC for a big leadership. But the first one we went to was Cuyahoga Community College in Cleveland, Ohio. And so the visit was going to be in November, so beginning in August and September, we started working on the program. I was working with a woman out of California in the big office, Brenda and I. So the contact at the Cuyahoga school was their executive VP, I saw him anyway. So I’d been talking with him, faxing stuff and all of that. So when I get to Cleveland, the program was starting on Sunday evening at seven. I had a flight out Sunday morning, and to show you how small and intimate Gainesville was, the manager of Eastern Airlines at the time, Roger Rowers, he calls me home on Sunday morning. “Portia, your flight’s been canceled.” I’m like, “Roger, I got to get to Cleveland.” “Yeah, but I’m going to book you on another one, I got you on one going out here at two. Going to get you in Cleveland at six.” I said, “My program starts at seven.”





“This is the best I can—” I said, “Okay.” So I called Dr. Jefferson because he was going to meet me. I was supposed to get there at two thirty or something, and I said, “My flight’s been canceled. I’ll just catch a cab to the hotel where all the meetings were in.” He said, “No, I’ll pick you up.” I’d never had met him, we only talked, so when I get off the plane and he’s standing there. And I look at him, he says, “Dr. Taylor?” and I said, “Dr. Jefferson?” he said, “Yeah.” He sticks out his hand, I said, “I’m from North Carolina, we hug people when we met them.” Then he’s walking me out to the baggage area to get my luggage and we’re talking and he’s telling me all of the fellows and the program’s all set, all the speakers were good to go, and I’m going to do the icebreaker. We’re all set and he’s talking, I’m talking and waiting on my bags, and I look up at him and I said, “God, you look like my second husband.” He said, “I look like your second husband?” And I said, “Yeah.” He said, “How many husbands have you had?” I said, “One.” [Laughter] He avoided me all week long. He’s my husband, by the way, now. Because while I was in the graduate program, there was only one other Black person in there, this Black guy and we just got close, and after I graduated we got married, and we shouldn’t have. We recognized that so we got divorced a year later, but it was all good. No hard feelings, this was a mistake. We came together, he said, “Well, you just know why, because we were it and we just gravitated to each other.” We got closer and we never should have married, and we understood that, so it was amicable. But I said, “Now you look just like my second husband.” So that was in 1990, and we continued between Gainesville and Cleveland, and then in [19]91, on my birthday, he asked me to marry him. I said yes. My birthday rolled around





in [19]92, I’m still not married, I’m engaged. He’s in Cleveland, I’m in Gainesville, but now I’m forty two, okay? I said, “Forty two year olds don’t stay engaged for years.” So he was coming one weekend in August and we were talking, this was on Thursday night, he was coming in on Saturday. I said, “Do you want to do anything special this weekend?” He said, “No, I just want to be with you.” I said, “Let’s get married then.” He said, “Huh?” I said, “Let’s get married on Saturday.” “We can’t get married, we haven’t planned.” I said, “We ain’t doing all of that, I’m forty two and I don’t need all of that.” I had a friend at work down here, she was a minister and Barbara’s been with me since [19]90. I said, “Barbara, I’m getting married this weekend, you got anything going on? You want to come to a wedding?” She said, “Yeah.” I called my sister down in Fort Lauderdale, meanwhile she has gotten married and had a daughter, I said, “Y’all come on up, I need them,” and then my two friends were in town—I mean, lived here. Anyway we had a nice little wedding at Bethel Church. I called Jerry, she arranged the church, and afterwards I said we’re just going to take everybody to dinner. And my little niece, who’s three, is my flower girl, although she said, “I’m Uncle Curtis’ flower girl.” “Okay, whatever.” We’re sitting there at the restaurant Curtis is on one side of me, Clara’s on the other, and Clara keeps saying, “Aunt Portia, but the wedding cake.” All she knew about weddings were wedding cakes, so all this planning, I didn’t think about a wedding cake. About that time, people were rolling the wedding cake, Barbara had baked the wedding cake. I mean it’s beautiful, she had baked it. She said, “I knew you wouldn’t think of it.” So she had baked it and taken it to the restaurant beforehand. And my best friend had gone to





Dillard’s and bought something off the rack, a nice cream colored skirt, flowy, and it had a little flower for the top. My best friend goes in and finds the outfit because I’d shown her, she said, “That’s perfect.” And she goes into Dillard’s the next day, and says, “I know the outfit I’m looking for, there it is.” And the woman says, “Oh okay, what size would you like?” And she’s like a twelve or fourteen, and she says, “Give me a six.” And the lady looks at her, anyway, she buys it. She takes it to the florist and has them match up a bouquet, and a little flower basket and a boutonnière, and then she returns the outfit. She just wanted the florist to see it. I mean, it just was perfect. We’re still married, you know. That was the main thing, that was in [19]92. He’s still in Cleveland. I’m still here. We’re still commuting, but we’re married. And so then he says to me, “Either you moving to Cleveland or I’m coming to Gainesville.” I had no intentions of moving to Cleveland. He has a PhD in mathematics and he had started as a teacher, chair, Dean until he had vice president of everything. I said, “There’s a math faculty job open at Santa Fe.” He said, “Whoa, that would really bring me full circle, wouldn’t it?” Back ‘round the side. I said, “Just think about it.” He thought about it and he decided he’s going to apply for it, so he came here in September, August of [19]93, started teaching math. My president at the time, Larry Tyree, knew Curtis because he was at a League school and knew of him, knew his president and all that. And he said, “No way I’m going to let all that expertise sit down there and teach,” but he did teach for a few years, but then he promoted him to vice president of academic affairs. And that’s his current role, he’s associate vice president of academic affairs. So that’s how I got to Gainesville. [Laughter] See, you get me going and I





just keep talking. And then after he moved here, I decided you know, a rolling stone gathers no retirement, and that was a big move for him because he’d been in Cleveland like thirty years. And I wasn’t going to let him come here and then all of the sudden say, “Oh, by the way, I’m applying for a presidency,” because that was my goal, to be a community college president. I applied for Santa Fe when it opened up in 2000, but that didn’t go anywhere, sad to say. But I just decided I’m just going to stay here until I retire, which is next May.

	F:	What do you plan on doing after? T:	I’m going to start my other life. [Brief interruption]

	F:	Thank you so much.



	T:	Yeah, and if you want to talk some more, just call me. F:	I will.

	T:	And we’ll set up some time, and we’ll keep talking. Because I can just keep talking. I don’t know what my other life is going to be. Curtis keeps saying that it’s going to reveal itself, and I was just saying today to him, I said, “You know, I don’t think I’ll work anywhere else again. I’m not gonna look for another job.” And he says, “You don’t have to look for a job, a job’s going to come looking for you.” And I said, “Well, we’ll see.” He said, “It won’t be about the money, it’ll be about if you want to do it and it’s something you just can’t not do.” I said, “It won’t involve supervising and managing people, though.” I’m done with managing people. I used to think I was good at it until a few weeks ago. I’ve been presented with some opportunities. You know, non-renewing people and people filing grievances





against you. I said, “It’s a good thing,” but I’m not here for them, I’m here for students, and I should be spending ninety percent of my time with students and ten percent dealing with personnel issues, and I’m finding it to be just the opposite. And that’s not good. I’m here for students, and the nature of what we do, we’re labor intensive. I mean, we don’t produces riches, we’re labor intensive. And I try to hire the right people upfront, and as much as you try, you’re still going to make mistakes. Or they are the right people and things don’t go right for whatever reason. And so at this point in my career, it’s become easy for me to make the difficult decisions. I mean, they’re difficult, but it’s easier to make the difficult decisions, Ayana, and you’ll find that. I mean, I remember the first time I ever had to non-renew someone, I couldn’t sleep that night. My stomach was in knots. I was a mess. And it was for budget reasons, nothing that employee had done wrong, purely budget. I was a mess, but now it’s been for reasons that they should be terminated. And I’ve had to bite the bullet and do it, and I’ve got to do it tomorrow, but I’ll do it. But they’re taking up too much time and energy. They’re adults, they’re professionals, and they aren’t acting that way.

	F:	Well thank you.



	T:	It’s been a pleasure. [End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, December 4, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019