AAHP 385B; James; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 385B William James African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Nicole Yapp and Juliette Barbera on March 27, 2018 1 hour, 1 minute | 21 pages



Abstract: In this interview, William James talks about his daily routine, which consists of his belief in God and the Church. Mr. James emphasizes the importance of his belief and how it has played an integral part in his life; it has been present in his life since he was a young boy and continues to be. Mr. James briefly mentions Frank Pinkston, one of the past presidents of the NAACP, and Pinkston’s Humanitarian Award. He recalls that Mr. Pinkston was a religious man who became a minister before his untimely death. He also talks about his own contributions, such as buying six houses in Ocala to help those in need.





Keywords: [African American History Project, Joel Buchanan Project, JBA, Religion, Church, Christianity, NAACP, Frank Pinkston, Community]



Standards:

1. SS.912.A.5.7 National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP)









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 385B

Interviewee: William James

Interviewer: Nichole Yapp and Juliette Barbera Date of Interview: March 27, 2018



	Y:	Today is Tuesday, March 27. This is Nichole Yapp with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, interviewing Mr. William James with Juliette. . .

	B:	Barbera.



	Y:	Mr. James, can you tell us a little bit about where you were born and when you were born?

	J:	I was born January the first, 1921. I was born in that house right over there, and I grew up. And my mother had four children, and I grew up right here in this vicinity. I’ll never move. I was married once, and I still were just about two miles from here, during the married life, but I’ve spent my whole life right here. I had this house built in 1969 for my mother, and during that time I was staying with my wife in another house that I— [Telephone rings]. Then I went to work over there where you see that orange building in that whole complex over there, and I spent my whole life right here in this area and my mother and I went; finished the eighth grade in school. And my sister and my two brothers, they went to high school and to college, but I didn’t go. I went to work on a farm because back in those days, there wasn’t much to do. And I went to work. I told Momma I wouldn’t go to school. I would go to work and help the others to go to school. But I went work, right across the street there for fifty cents a day and a meal, and I worked there for several years on the farm. It was a farm. Then I got a chance to go to work with the county, then, as a custodian cleaning schools. I worked there for a long time, and I quit work there back in the [19]60s. In [19]64, I went back to the school system, and I worked there then. I got promoted to a supervisor, and then





I had fifteen schools that I was responsible for High and cleaning those schools. During that period, I worked twenty-five years, and used twenty-six days sick time in twenty-five years. And that was for surgery. I have been a person who always wanted to work and always worked. I never been a lazy person with work. So I relax with those days from the school system, and then I went back to work after that. I retired after twenty-five years of working for the school system, and I hadn’t been in another job since then. I have a brother that lives in Milford, Virginia. And all of my other closest relatives already passed on. It’s just him and myself really. We’re the last family members that we have, and we talk briefly just about every day. We already talked this morning. He calls me mostly. I’m ninety- seven-years old, and he’s in his nineties, so I don’t know exactly what he is, but I been a member — when I was nineteen years old, my mother raised us in the church. And I was nineteen years old, they are going to the Methodist church, and they made us steward, class leader, and the secretary of the church when I was nineteen years old. I kept a secretary book for thirty-five years. They wanted to pay me to be a secretary, and that’s when I refused to take money for the secretary. I told them they could hire somebody else to be the secretary, because the Lord was paying me, and I did not need it. And now, during the thirty-five years, I went to church 1,850 Sundays without missing five Sundays of going to church. And since then, I’ve been growing my record of the church attendance: 2,449 Sundays without missing five Sundays. In June, the third in the 2017 that I had ran, we raised 4,480 Sundays that I hadn’t missed a Sunday but one Sunday, and that was a heavy storm in September and there wasn’t no





church that Sunday. And I am a steward and a class leader now, been ever since I was nineteen years, I meant twelve years old, and now, I’m ninety-seven years old and I still hold on to service. I go to church Sunday school every Sunday morning at 9:30. I mostly proctor the church. Sunday school start at 9:30, and you have to be there ready to go to Sunday school. And I’m a class leader and a steward now, normally at service. We have Bible study on Wednesday nights, and most every Wednesday night, I’m distracting Bible studies. And our grandma tried to live a Christian life all her life. I sleep with her Bible in my bed, right on my side on me, and then I’d gotta put the Bible in the headboard. And then I got diary ready for all kind of Christian literature right in my bed, right behind my head. And anytime I get ready to read to something, I just turn the light on at night. I wake up at night, and I know I have a prayer. And in the morning, before I get out of bed, I read the bible. Then I open the blinds so I could see the highway, and I pray for every car going down that highway. I had a prayer for every person that God got living, including myself, every morning.

Asked the Lord to bless the people who are going through and down the highway; give them a safe trip wherever they going or wherever they coming from. And last, I asked the Lord to bless me because before the day out, I’d be one of those persons on that highway out there. That’s my prayer every day, every morning. I asked the Lord to bless everybody he had living. And one of my words is, “Not my will, Lord, but let your will be done in Earth as it is in Heaven.” And that’s been my last prayer that I do every morning. I open that brown blind and look out the window. Sometime I see the sun, and I tell the Lord I see the





sun shining through the window. Whenever it’s cloudy and I don’t see the sun, I tell the Lord I know who it is, and I know the route it takes to get through the everyday. And that is my prayer mostly every morning. And quite a few years ago, the chef made a honorary liberty chef out of me. I go up to the jail with really big inmates out there, and I talk them and pray, pray for them. I been doing that for quite a few years, too. I never been sick with what I do. Just stay away from work. I haven’t been sick. I barely even take medicine. I had surgery, and that was the only time that I stayed in bed in the day time. In order to bless me, I got arthritis in the left knee. I walk with a cane. I use that thing to exercise my knee every morning. I gotta treadmill over in the middle of house over there, so I go over there, occasionally get on the treadmill, but I goes every day, and I pray for everybody. I’ve been praying for you a long time, ain’t never seen you before. [Laughter]. I pray for everybody that traveling down the highways and byways. I never had a fight with nobody. I finished the eighth grade in school, and after that, I didn’t never go to school no more. And I never had it. If I had a fight, it was when I was in school. They always said, “He was fighting about.” Thirty-seven psalms say, “Fret not thyself for evildoers for they will soon be cut off.” I pray in the glory of every morning that “I don’t know my evildoers, but I turn them over to you.” And let him fight my battles, so I don’t have to fight no battle. I have been living here since [19]85 by myself. My mother died then. I’ve been living here ever since then. I had two surgeries. I had a minor surgery one time. During that time, I had a person staying here with me about a week, and they picked on me all the time. But I will never forget that, wherever he is. His picture is up there in





that column up there, the one on the left. He lived in Hosa, Alabama, and one of the ladies was his wife, and one of them was my sisters, and brothers they all paid him. But, I live here and I trip by myself most of the time. Different people find the lady living up here. She used to run a bar-b-que place right up there on my property. Years ago, she use to run a bar-b-que place there. And, so, I use to eat a meal there, and I use to buy a meal. And then, when they closed that bar-b-que place down, I turned on my radio and it used to say “Get a—” I’d say “I use to could get a free meal up here, and now you all are gonna close the bar-b- que close down now.” And they say, “Well we still could.” Now that she brought me a plate down. They say, “Well, every once in a while she come and bring a plate.” If I’m not here, they put it in the car, and leave a message on my answering machine that, “Look in the car, you find her down in there.” And so that’s what she done morning, brought me a plate. So I live and trust in the Lord and lean on him for my direction. I got a Bible right here, Bible bedroom. My mother’s Bible, very seldom I read it, but I sleep with the Bible in the bed, and I read all that in the morning. In fact, I got one Bible laying at right side of me. It’s an old Bible with, one of the back done torn off of it and some of them faded and torn up, but I read it and I got a new Bible. It’s right in there. My bed got a headboard down about that wide. And the longer the bed, you put all kind. I gotta dictionary book in there, got all kinds of literature that I can read in there whenever I get ready to read it. Whenever I wake up at night, I get the Bible and read it.

	Y:	This area use to be called Jamestown. Correct?





	J:	Yeah.



	Y:	What happened to Jamestown? Why did the name change? J:	Well it’s still called Jamestown—

	Y:	It’s still called Jamestown?



J:  Even the course. My daddy, and he had two sisters. My daddy owned thirty-two acres of land here, and his sisters, two sisters, one wanted to be up there by the tractor light up there, and one live round the street from there. And they called it Jamestown. That’s what they called us. The James is the first people on here.

Everybody who’s anybody was related to James. And they call it Jamestown. I call it Jamestown now. I wrote my cousin, I wrote Anthony up the other day, and I visit that sinkhole, and I bet it hurts quite a bit. I told him yesterday, I said, “Well, I’m going Jamestown now.” [Laughter].

	Y:	So you still call it Jamestown, and there’s still some people who refer to it as Jamestown?

	J:	Jamestown, uh-huh. Y:	Okay.

	J:	Yeah that’s it. I got it cousin who lives right around the corner, right up there on the college [Inaudible at 16:55] I still drive some, but I don’t drive a whole lot. My nephew, he doesn’t want me to drive. And my friend that I was going to visit lives in town. I drive there, but I don’t drive at night. Out of being at church sometime I would drive at night, but most time, my cousin, he’ll be there. If not, I get her to carry me out there and somebody from the Church will bring me back home after meeting if they have their meeting. Like we got a Church tonight out there. But





I’m comfortable. I’m not afraid there. Put my trust in the Lord, and he has brought me ninety-seven years, and I don’t think he gonna leave me now. Go right on.

Worry about it, and take on the… [Laughter] I ain’t scared being locked the door. That door is never locked when I’m here. Most people come in, they come to this door, and they chill there, so I just always get their attention, tell them to come in in that door. I have a lot of friends. I have a tractor. I have a few cars out there.

And I got friends, they come get on the tractor and go all the way. They don’t me to drive a tractor no more. So they’ll come mow the pastures, drag whatever they have to do with a tractor; they come and do it. I have a cousin that I gave him acre of land, because he take care of most of the farm. If I have to put in a repair and expenses like that in my house, he could let them do things for me, but I need to do. Then I have this friend that come and work and don’t charge me nothing. He has a daughter that’s in college in Georgia, and I can’t give him money till he send to his daughter. And when he come in and get on the tractor sometime and work four hours, two hours, three hours, whatever hours, and never take no money. He likes it. He do a lot of work on the television, I meant on the computer, and I drink Ensure every day and he works on the computer and then find out and buy it cheap. I paid six dollars a case for six bottles. It cost

sixty-seven dollars. And he find it on the computer four dollars for a six pack. And he and his bride brought me five and told me about it. I’ve got five cases. I drank Ensure ‘cause I know my body needs all the proteins and all the vitamins and all those things that I don’t get otherwise, so I drink bottle of Ensure every day.

Sometimes I drink a bottle and a half, sometimes I drink two bottles. That’s his





right there. You were supposed to get all — think I need. I don’t drive very much, but I gotta go back over to Auntie Linda sometime day and get my window, not drawing up and down, and he didn’t put a motor in it. And if God’s grace didn’t work, so now I’m supposed to go back and get it done today. Whenever I decide to go over there. So I’m happy here by myself. Nobody bothers me, and I don’t bother nobody.

	B:	We read that you were involved in NAACP. Do you want to tell us how you got involved in that? Maybe like the story about that?

	J:	Yeah, I’ve been a member a long time for the NAACP and that plaque up there is one of the men that, for the NAACP representative, and he pass and gone. They had to consult me to make a picture of him, and they donated — well they’re going to do it now, but they did. That’s how come that big picture there, they gave me that. That’s quite a few years ago. And all those other pictures there, I was working with the school board, and I had fifteen schools. And when I retired, there — alotta of custodians gave me a lot of them plaques over there. Over there; different things I’ve received, I earn in my life. And that book is for many.

That lady bring me that that book [Inaudible at 22:44], and they gonna sell for fifteen dollars. People buy them. I went to the doctor the other day, and I got an appointment with a heart doctor, and one of the Black girls worked there, she had bought one of them books. They buy them online, and she had it there, waiting on me to autograph it. Sometime next month, they’re having a service at the Church for me to sign autograph book. People got books. They want me to autograph them. But my life has been good, and I may have commit sin during





my life, and I pray every day. Ask the Lord, “Forgive me for the sin today that I commit by words or by thoughts.” When you sin by thoughts, I ask the Lord to forgive me for the sin that is by thoughts and by commitment. And let us say I go to Church every Sunday. And I and miss you, Lord. Bless me when I get up Sunday morning, and I get breakfast sometime and most time I don’t. I go ahead and get me my denture and my medicine. I take medicine morning and night.

And pills. And I’m happy.



	Y:	You grew up Ocala while it was segregated. What was it like growing up in segregation?

	J:	Well, I never had much problem with segregation. There were people that had problems with segregation and had different things like. By me being, trying to live a Christian life all the time, it never bothered me too much, because I put everything in the Lord’s hand. I haven’t had many problem with segregation, because I did whatever was supposed to be done and right. I knew I couldn’t go to White dining room tables, so I never headed it out to go there. Do you know what the adjustable wrench is?

	Y:	No.



	J:	Well, adjustable ranch is, they, some be that big and some be that big, and it’s adjustable, meaning that wrench can fit all kinds of… It will fit this size. It’ll fit small sizes; it adjusts. If you’re trying to fit whatever size of bolt you’re trying to loosen. I didn’t know that. I didn’t have no experiences like I have now. Years ago, I was doing mechanic work and different things. Working on the farm and fixing this and there, and had wrenches; different size wrenches. Adjustable





wrench is one that you can adjust it to fit a bolt this size, and you can adjust it to fit one this size and even larger. If you get a larger adjustable wrench, you can open it up and fit. That’s why I bought an adjustable wrench. A few years back, the Lord put it in my mind about adjustable wrench. And I said that anything that comes about in my life, I have to adjust to it. I can’t change it; I have to adjust and bear with it. Just like you all came today. I adjust to your coming today to do whatever you all do. I adjust myself, if I can. I mean, just like the window in my church, the column won’t go up all the way. Well, I can’t make it go up and old me would have to carry it all in, put a new in, but I adjusted, rolled it up as far as it would go. And they cool air or cold air, whatever, that’s what I do. I got to deal with it. I can’t make it go up, so I adjust to the situation. I can’t change it, and I prayin’ that the Lord and He will always make what He have for me. And people that have said things to me that I didn’t like or curse me or something like that I never cursed in my life. I never said a curse word. If I ever said a curse word, I was repeating what someone else said if I’m telling someone about it. I adjust to, and seek their reason. Peoples says something to me, I don’t get mad. Like the Bible said, “Fret not thyself for evildoers.” They said things to me or do things to me that gone and hurted me I guess. Round feeding them but nothing like that, I’d just pray for those people. And the Lord always has made a ways so that nobody came up to me to hit me. There wasn’t no fight, right, because if anybody said get mad and said things, then I don’t follow up. The Lord said He’ll fight the battle. I just pray every morning, pray for those who spitefully use me. And the Lord take care of that so I don’t have to do it but to leave it to him. Leave it to





Him, and He’ll take care of it. “Fret not for yourself for evildoers for they will soon be cut off.” He’ll handle it, and He has it if you leave it to him, and He’ll handle it. And I won’t have to worry about it. It won’t hurt me. So that’s the kind of life that I live, and I don’t ever have any problems. Everybody respect me so much and do things for me. I just pray for them and accept that’s what they do. I have a cousin. He can get you on a tractor, and I have a friend of mine get on that tractor and mow the grass. Certainly never get me to go on like that. Nah, I mow my own yard. And my hedges, I mostly be cutting them. But I got a friend of mine, he cuts his hedges. I got a big ole seat that I get on and sit down and clip the hedges myself. I got liquid clipper. Then I got the hammer. [Inaudible at 31:12 – 31:13] I do that myself, and I very seldom have anybody mow my yard. I get on the tractor on the lawn mower and mow my yard myself ‘cause I know how I want it, and I do it myself. So I have a few things that I have to adjust to, and I pray for everybody and turn them over to the hands of the Lord so they belong. I give the Lord that job. Yes, I did and I get along that — that lady made that book there.

Tell you what I did. It gave us name. They had a walking tree all downtown, and the people of my life have been so visible. A lot of people know me, a lot of people heard about me. And different people always like to talk to me and ask me about things, just like you all, about segregation or whatever this and whatever that. I’ll be honored all the time. People open doors for me, and they’ll do anything for me I need. Anything I need, I got people I can just call and they’ll come do it. A lot of people offer. And even if they ain’t call me, people bring food just like they coming up now, and to bring food. I hadn’t seen her in a couple





months or more, but people do that. I’ll go over to my cousin house yesterday, and they picked a plate for me and I don’t even move it twice, already. And still have me [Inaudible at 33:15]. [Laughter].

	B:	So what are some initiatives that you recall working with the NAACP? What are some things you worked on with the NAACP?

	J:	Well, I been working in NAACP for a long time, and we had an office downtown where people joined. I have in my car info about the people joining NAACP. I use to go to the office sometimes, and made another fella keep your office open. Two or three days a week. Full five hours a day. If anybody ever had a complaint, we’d tell them they needed to bring it to the NA office and NACP to work on it, and check it out during end of the year or something. I used to go down there and stay five or six hours during the day, and they keep the office open, because there is no pay there. They do all that for nothing, for free.

	B:	What year was this? What year did you start?



	J:	What year? Oh, I don’t what year but long time ago. [Laughter]. I don’t go over there right now. They always have a president, and every so often, you had a new president. And a new president may want to do this, do the other, but different than the adversary. These rules and regulations changed some, not how we handled it, but the main organization was already written and that’s mandatory. Sometime they need to call a meeting. Somebody mistreat somebody or didn’t some modest action, and they call a meeting and they wanna go and investigate it. Sometime they had to go and get the sheriff to go and call a meeting and do that. And the man called me just now, he’s a major in the sheriff





department. He calls me every once in a while. He come and visit with me every while, once in a while, too. And I go out to the jail. I kept the IDs that I present to him and go in to visit them. And I talk with them. One thing they’re always telling me, a lot of people, in jail and out of jail, is to keep doing what you’ve always done, you’ll get what you already get. Just like you put gas in that car, you will keep driving it. And I tell people when they go in jail, I tell you, if you’ve done the work you’ve already done, you’ll get what you’ve already gotten.

	B:	And we also noticed that the Frank Pinkston Award. Would you happen to know him by chance?

	J:	Who’s that?



	B:	The Frank Pinkston Award. I heard he was like local in North Florida. I was wondering if you interacted with him at all or knew him? Frank Pinkston.

	J:	Which one does you talking about?



	B:	Here. It says Frank Pinkston Humanitarian award. I was just wondering if you knew Frank Pinkston.

	J:	Oh, yes. I knew Frank Pink. He was a president of NAACP. His daddy was a minister and pastor of the church at that time. Frank Pinkston was a Christian man, and then before he passed, he was a minister. They recognized him. They use to. I think that’s the last one, I believe, that they gave, made — his humanitarian award. I think that was one, because I don’t remember. They used do that every year, but then we had a different president then we have different regulations and different things. Yes, but all of those things, I was honored to have all of that done. And when that book that you hear about, and the lady





Cynthia Graham, I got to call her, because I got to order. I’m getting her to bring me a couple more of them books because people buy them whenever they see them, because of me. There’s picture, life about me, and they always want them. And I have others bring them here to me, and I have one of the church Sunday a man with his son from another — living in another county. He saw it, and he wanted it. And then he bought that one, then people buy it. They study, they look at it; the different things that I’ve done. My life has been pretty good. I’ve never been arrested, and, like I said, never had no problems with anybody because I know how to adjust to the situation. If I find something that is going to work a different way, I adjusted myself to not to fall off with it. Different people. If I think that somebody want to get in, I let them in. Well, I don’t want to argue about it, just let the Lord handle that, yeah.

	Y:	Even though you’re ninety-seven, you’re still very involved in your community.



What motivates you to continue to do meaningful work?



	J:	What’s that now?



	Y:	Even though you’re ninety-seven, you’re still very much involved in the community. Earlier you spoke about how you go to the jail and you talk to the inmates there. What motivates you to keep doing things like that?

	J:	Well, because I’m trying to live a Christian life, and the people that went to jail sometimes, some of them don’t even know nothing about the Lord. It’s in me, because the Bible teaching me to try to teach other people His words, share the things with Him. I got a godson. We talked this morning. He has his problems, he’s got in a prayer of mine. Having a problem and doesn’t have a job and help





me, so I do everything that I can. In fact about him, I got to be his godfather when he was a baby. In [19]89, I sold that land up there for that school. I sold that for three-hundred thousand dollars an acre, and three-hundred and whatever acre and a quarter of whatever it was, was required to have. When I say something like that, you have to have certain amount of land or man. And I bought it. When I sold it, my life has been, since I was twenty years old or more, my life has been, “Lord, help me to help somebody else for somebody helped Mama to raise four of us without a father.” My father died when I was eight-years old, and my mother never remarried no one, for she was she a Christian lady trying to live her Christian life and work and doing things, and somebody here put, to raise me.

And so as soon as I got grown I said, “Lord, help me to help somebody else, because somebody helped Mamma to raise me, and I want to return the same favor.” This road, it use to be a wagon road, horse and buggy road. The highway use to be over here on my old green pillow from Ocala to Gainesville, is on this highway over there. And then this was a grated road. Then they finally made it a highway, and then they made a full lane out of the highway over it. Well, then that made the land expand or make more higher property, raised the price on it. And they wanted to buy that and put that station up there. They wanted to ask me about buying it, and I didn’t have no idea what to charge, but I knew it was a special land in town. A Black guy who had been poor and grew up in Ocala, and he got to be one of the richest Black men in Ocala, so I had to discuss it with him. One of my cousins told me to have him come out there to make an offer, to put a price on it. And he came out, and he told me about it. He said it was expensive. If





I sold it, they aren’t making no more land, and he said, “If you don’t have to sell it, don’t sell it. And if you sell it, make them pay the price for it, because they want it. It’s yours and they want it, and so you can put a price on it that you want to put on it.” Well, he offered me three or four different people who were trying to buy it to put that spinner safe in there, because it’s right on the highway, on the ranch highway. So, I didn’t. They ask me and I said, “No, it’s not for sale.” I told them it wasn’t for sale and renting. Then here comes a serious company that was trying to buy. And then that why they, after I told them it wasn’t for sale, then one of them gave me an offer, I don’t remember what it was. I told them no, and I lay not for sale. Then I told them the next person, “No.” I turned down so much for it.

They get into the hands of the business people then. They line up, selling it for three-hundred thousand dollars, but they kept offering and I didn’t take it like the man said I should do. Don’t have to sell. I didn’t have to sell. I had work, and I had my retirement. When I retired, I had twenty-seven thousand dollars for sick days ‘cause I never take no sick days. ‘Cause I wasn’t sick. One time I had a knee operation, and after that, I never missed no work, because I never quit. I like to work. I never did shy from work. I guess I was born to work, now I can’t. [Laughter] So what was I going to do to cut me out? I can do that. I can get on the lawn mower and cut that till I do what I can. Denise finally sold it for three- hundred thousand dollars, and I said, “Now, Lord, I can help somebody.” I bought six houses in Ocala. Paid cash for every one of them. Two wooden building and four block building, and put them up for rent; cheap. I got one house now. Three bath and a half, three bedroom, sentry way in here. And we’re in the map with





six hundred and something dollars or more. I had first rented for four hundred dollars, though people rented the four hundred dollars in government housing, so I was paying that. So they asked me one day, told me I could go up on the rent. And I told them, “No, I didn’t need to go up on it,” because I’ve had to pay income tax now, so there wasn’t no point on me going up, and then I’d pay the government so I wouldn’t go up on it. But since then, I rented not for six hundred dollars with three bedrooms, a bath and a half, centered and heat. And it’s a block house and happiness home. I had bought six houses. After fifteen of the years or more, I start selling them, because I did never go up on the rent, because I was renting to help people. And then I would have to keep them up, maintenance, you know? So finally, I just sold them, and I just kept the one house downtown. But the Lord has always been blessing me so, and I hear Him all the time. Every year, I had to fill out income tax. I had to keep up with it. Well, I keep up with it, my doctor bills and all of that, because I don’t have no expenses there. The only thing I have to do is pay twenty-five dollars or thirty dollars for a visit. I had a church due. I paid all my money in church with checks, most of the time. Once in a while, I pay cash, but I paid checks so I could use it for income tax purpose. So I told the secretary of the church the other day perhaps I wanted to get my money for the Lord and put it on my tax. And the last year I paid many… This old man, slowing me down.

	Y:	Take your time. Is this your contribution statement from the church? J:	Yes, that’s how my money got put in check.

	Y:	This a lot of money.





	B:	Is a lot of money.



	Y:	I’m sure they spend it well. Since it’s almost always donated.



	J:	That’s my tithe every time. Now if they didn’t check and they—you don’t include a check record and total it up, for that, what would I pay today? Your Bible’s with the checks now. Whenever I put four dollars or two dollars or a dollar in cash, that’s not even [Inaudible at 50:51] Every Sunday, a dollar ask everybody for a dollar for certain things, and every Sunday, I pay a dollar. I carry a pocket full of change, and a lot of children, I give them a dime every Sunday. I got a letter wrote. One of the members wrote a letter about me giving the children money every Sunday. I’d go and get a nickel and dime and put them in short pocket, and when they have breakfast and come back to go to church, I’m ready to come back and I give every one of them something. They all meet me, too. But that’s my regular contribution there. Seven thousand and something hundred dollars that I give out that will pay my tithes. Every Sunday, I write a check for twenty- five or thirty dollars, or offering in Sunday school, and then I put that extra dollar in, the dollar they ask everybody to put a dollar in. On first Sunday, I pay my tithes and all. That’s why I come to see the bout three hundred something that I pay every first Sunday. Now, I’m gonna go to church Sunday, my check would be eight hundred and something dollars, whatever you see there. I do that all the time, pay my tithes.

	Y:	Is there anything else that you would like to share with us?



	J:	No, only, I have people who come here, young men that have problems. And they in truth, they have a problem. They ask me about same thing that they’re





paired in their life. They did this or somebody did this to ‘em, and how if it was me what would I do and how would I do it or things like that. And I have them come in and read the scriptures. I color code different scriptures, and then I read it. I got a cousin of mine, and I was reading my scriptures this morning, and I get him. He has some problems, and I would give him that book to read. He come in, and I sit down and talk to him. I have sometimes seen him in tears along with me. I’m a tear shedder. [Laughter]. I shed tears every morning when I’m praying. I keep a towel, handkerchiefs, at the end of my bed because every morning I pray, I cry.

And every night I’m praying, I wake up in the middle of the night and pray. Read the Bible, and I pray. I got a little place in the head of the bed where I keep pocket handful of towels. Shed my tears. [Laughter]. I’m a cry baby. [Laughter]. Yes, sir. In church, they sing some songs, and it brings tears in my eyes. I keep a pocket handker all the time so I can wipe the tears I have. Teachers [Inaudible at 55:08], and they [Inaudible at 55:12]. Sometime they— Reya sits in one place all the time in the church and she’ll bring me tissue boxes. They’ve been helping me because I’ll be crying there singing the song and the spirit hits you, and it comes out. So that’s one thing about my life: I try to live and I try to direct people that have problems. And people have called me, and they’re at Sunday school. I go to Sunday school every morning. They got a sign, one of the church. I went to church Sunday, and I went in the front atrium to help with the money, and there was a chair, a tall stool. Like you want to do so on the porch, it wants the money. It’s comfortable. And they say they brought that stool for me to sit high up. I don’t have to sit down on the seat, because I have to pry myself up because my





strength is going. I can’t just get up. I have to pry myself up. And they put this stool right for me. It’s where I sit all the time. So I be sitting up on that all the time. I told my faith, y’all better put a seatbelt on it! [Laughter]. Put a seatbelt on that stool so I won’t fall out of it. [Laughter]. But, they surprised me when I saw that.

Where they put that because I have to get up. I have to pry myself up it. And they got special parking place for me with my name under that there. We got to park close to the back door, the door into church. But I’m happy. I’m happy with the Lord. There’s always a song ready. We had a preacher, we asked him one time

— he used to sing a song about this. “Something within me that I can’t explain. All I know there’s something within me.” So it’s something within me that makes me happy. And I go to church. I see a lot of people. I used to get up and walk around and shake people hand that…to other people. But I don’t do that now. I try to get to some or most of them, but I use a walking cane and walk around there. I call myself Hopalong Cassidy. [Laughter]. Yes, yes. I am very happy to have you all stop in and talk. I wrote it down in my old calendar book here. And all the points missing I had. This is a book that tells a lot of stories. A lot of people phone numbers in here. And this my calendar book here. And I write down what I’m supposed to do every day or whatever, on that different day. I got it down here. I put down here “FL.” [Inaudible at 59:07] for a year all. Where you all come from. I had that wrote down here. I hadn’t even looked down here this morning, but you can see who was coming or what, but then you seen here, and I know what that chair is in the corner there. For I’ll sit down in that a lot of times, and I have a lot of people sit down to have a problem getting up. You can see it in that





chair and have their arm there and they can’t get up, and that’s why I keep it in here. And if I keep it in that corner, either way, so people can. Like I’m always asking them to come in the side door.

	B:	Thanks for having us. Thank you for having us. J:	Oh yeah. I enjoyed it.

	Y:	That concludes our interview. Thank you, Mr. James for taking the time to speak with us.

[End of Interview]



	Transcribed by:	Meg Cannan, February, 2018 Audit-Edited by:	Jennifer Romero, May 5, 2019 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 14, 2020