AAHP 059; Manning; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 059 Doris George Manning African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Jennifer Boekenoogen on June 15, 2009 1 hour, 14 minutes | 33 pages



Abstract: Doris Manning was born and raised in Archer, Florida, in the 1940s. She relates some of the history of her mother and her father, and talks about growing up in Alachua County in the mid-20th century. She describes some of her experiences with segregation, including the ways her parents sheltered her from it, such that she was in high school when she was first confronted by requirements to go to the back door of a restaurant, etc. She also relates that Halloween was a time that White people in Archer would harass the Black community and play mean-spirited pranks. She also relates her development as a cook over her lifetime, from baking cakes to making pickles, and how she learned much of it from her mother. She describes a number of the service organizations that she was involved in at the time of the interview, and also relates some of her thoughts on showing respect for elders.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida]





































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 059

Interviewee: Doris George Manning Interviewer: Jennifer Boekenoogen Date: June 15, 2009



	B:	Guess we’ll get started. My name is Jennifer Boekenoogen, and I’m with the University of Florida’s oral history program. And I’m here with Mrs. Doris Manning. And guess we’ll get started by, why don’t tell me where you’re from, and where you grew up?

	M:	Okay, I grew up in Long Pond, which is part of Archer—Archer, Florida, in the Long Pond area.

	B:	What year were you born?



	M:	I was born on October the 29th, 1945.



	B:	1945. Okay, so why don’t you tell me what it was like for you growing up in Archer, Florida?

	M:	Well, I had a very good—I had no problems growing up. I was just not raised by my birth mother—parents. I was born in that house, and she—my mother—left me and my brother with her uncle and his wife, and went to New York in 1947. And said she was coming back to get my brother and I. And she never returned.

	B:	Did you ever hear from her?



	M:	The first time I saw her after [19]45 was in 1959 when I got in ninth grade. And then, the second time I saw her was when I graduated high school in 1963. I’ve only seen her seven times in my whole lifetime. [Laughter]

	B:	So, why did she go to New York?



	M:	She said she went to New York to make a life for herself, and come back and get her children.

	B:	And then, what happened when she got there?





	M:	She never came back to get us.



	B:	When she was in New York, what made her stay, what made her not come back?

	M:	I never knew. She never said. But the parents that raised did a very, very, very



good job.



	B:	Good, good. So—.



	M:	I didn’t really miss her because I didn’t know about her. Anyway, so. My brother and I, we had a good life with those two people. And that two people that I call Mom and Dad, is named Daisy—well, I should say the man first. Lenord. Lenord is L-E-N-O-R-D. Wait, I have to write it down.

	B:	I do the same thing, I can’t spell without writing down.



	M:	Yeah. That’s his name that’s his name, that’s her uncle, and this is the wife Daisy Debard. This is the—it’s a unusual name. Yeah. It’s a unusual name, Debard.

	B:	Where is that from? M:	I don’t know.

	B:	Yeah, I’ve never heard it before. Okay, and that was your mother’s uncle? M:	Yeah. Her uncle and his wife. Mmhm.

	B:	How old is your brother, is he older or younger?



	M:	Well, he got killed in 2001, and she didn’t come back for the funeral. And Mr. Chestnut was waiting, we waited twelve days for her to come, and I told Mr. Chestnut, “My brother been out. We need to have a burial for him.”

	B:	Right. Right.



	M:	We did it without her.





	B:	I bet that was hard. M:	It was.

	B:	Yeah. So, was he younger than you?



	M:	Yes, he was born in [19]47. His name was Leonard George. She added the Manning to my name when she was married to a Manning. My name was Doris George from the time I was born, because my dad’s a George. But she—and then she put my brother in my dad’s name. And she added Manning to my name just when I was graduating from high school.

	B:	Wow.



	M:	That’s why I’m real particular about—I don’t let nobody just say “Doris Manning,” they have to say Doris George Manning.

	B:	Oh, okay. Okay. I’m sorry.



	M:	Because I was George all the time. And then, all of the sudden, I become a Manning. So, that’s what bugs me.

	B:	Oh, okay. I’m sorry, I’m glad you told me that! [Laughter]



	M:	Yeah. I’m particular about the name. That’s the only thing that I’m really particular about.

	B:	Okay. So, growing up in Florida during the [19]40s and [19]50s, what kind of struggles did your family have?

	M:	The parents that raised us, raised me, they might have had some struggles, but we didn’t know about them. They kept it all from us. That’s why it was so hard for me to understand all these prejudices people have, that I’m finding out today; I





didn’t know about it when I was growing up. Because my parents didn’t let us see that. They kept it from us.

	B:	Wow. So, do you feel lucky that you—?



	M:	I feel—in a way I do, then in a way I don’t. Because I don’t think it’s right for people to be treated that way, even now. It’s so hard to even think that they went through that. But they never let my brother and I know about it. [Laughter] So.

And they kind of sheltered us from a lot of things, and since it was just the two of us, I got all the things I wanted at the time, and then he got all the things he wanted at the time. So, we thought that we didn’t have to worry about wanting for nothing. You know what I’m saying? Because if I wanted something, they made sure I got it. And I didn’t know how hard it was to get. And now I know that they had to really do some really uncouth things sometimes to get it.

	B:	What do you mean? M:	When I say uncouth? B:	Yeah.

	M:	Well you know, going in the back door, waiting to the back; you know, all of that prejudice-type stuff. They had to do all of that. They had to clean houses, and they couldn’t—they could clean them, they cleaned the house, but they couldn’t sit in specific places. It was just that—I didn’t know all this, you know?

	B:	They couldn’t sit inside the house?



	M:	If they had to eat or something, they had to go out the back porch or wherever; they couldn’t—and it just really hurt me to know that they had to do that to get me where I am.





	B:	Wow, what a sacrifice. It’s amazing. That’s amazing that they never told you any of that. You know? Wow. What was your first memory with, like, prejudice, and segregation, and stuff like that?

	M:	When I got to high school. [Laughter]



	B:	You got to high school? What happened?



	M:	Going downtown, we couldn’t go in certain stores. It was kind of bad, but at least I didn’t know it was bad at the time, because I wasn’t used to that. So, they would tell us to come downtown, but then, we couldn’t go in the store. They just let us stay in the car—in the truck; we had a truck. I never did get in to go in those stores to see how bad it was. I only know—you know, hear what Mr. Chestnut and all those people say. Because I never went in McCrory Ten-Cent store and Woolworth. But I knew they were there, but I didn’t never go in them. [Laughter]

	B:	Why didn’t you go into the stores?



	M:	I guess it was because we had to do some of them backwards things, and Momma and Daddy didn’t want us to go do it. So they did all the shopping and stuff for us. Mmhm.

	B:	When you went to high school, did you—?



	M:	I came from Archer to Gainesville. We rode the bus. We was bussed over.



	B:	Okay. Now, did you have any problems with segregation or anything in high school?

	M:	Well, we was at a all-Black school. They didn’t get to go to GHS ‘til the [19]70s or something? But no, we went to all-Black school, all-Black high school: Lincoln.

Which is Lincoln Middle School now; it was Lincoln High School at the time.





	B:	Okay. So, did you—were you involved in the Civil Rights Movement at all? Were you a part of any groups or anything like that?

	M:	No.



	B:	No? How did you feel about all that?



	M:	I was afraid to get in it, because I didn’t want to get beat up or anything. But I prayed for the people that was doing it, was trying to get it straightened out.

	B:	Did you know people that were involved? Did you see people that had gotten beaten up and stuff?

	M:	Yeah, I knew some people. I knew some people. See, that’s why I don’t celebrate—what’s the thing? That October—Halloween. That’s why I don’t celebrate Halloween. It was a awful time for Halloween in the country out there where we were. Because the people would come, and we had cows, horses, mules, hogs, and then we had a road. And it had a cattle gap, it’s called a “cattle gap.” It’s a dirt road, and then in the middle of the road, you have a thing like this that’s built, called a cattle gap? And it had iron bars across it.

	B:	Oh, I know what those are! Yeah.



	M:	And the people, those White folks out there would come and take these bars out.



And then, if you drove across it, your call would fall down in there. And I didn’t know who was doing that at that time. They still kept it from us. They just said, “Oh, they’ve been at it again!” You know, that’s all they would say to us. “They’ve been at it again.” And we didn’t know what they had been at until some of the older boys and girls out there would tell us, tell my brother and I. So that’s why I don’t celebrate, I can’t bring myself to celebrate Halloween, because of all the





mean things. They would take the outside toilet, they would take it up off the thing and sit it somewhere else. That was just awful. That was the only part I really knew about. But my parents didn’t tell us; the neighborhood children, they told us. Because they, I guess they parents told them. Yeah. And then they would sneak and tell us. Momma and Daddy didn’t want us to know it, want us to know that. And they would just pull the pump up. They did those kinds of things. So, yeah. I knew about that. That was hard. And they would make the chickens run away.

	B:	How would they do that?



	M:	Well, you know, if they let open the thing, and—. I just cannot, don’t like Halloween anymore.

	B:	So it got worse around Halloween?



	M:	Yeah, that’s when it was really bad! Really, really bad! And I just, I don’t do Halloween. And it’s sad, because the kids at school where I work, the children, they always talking about Halloween. But I try to shun them from that. I don’t tell them why I don’t do it, but I just don’t do it.

	B:	Right. Right. Wow. Okay. Now, growing up, when you were in high school or college—did you go to college?

	M:	Yes, I went to college.



	B:	Where did you go to college?



	M:	I went to college in Leesburg. It was Johnson Junior College at that time, but now it’s Lake-Sumter.

	B:	What year did you go there?





	M:	From [19]63 to [19]65. I have a AA degree. B:	Cool, what’s your degree in?

	M:	It’s in food, because I wanted to be a dietician. I did a intern, my intern was done at Leesburg general hospital. Yeah. But then, when my mom died—when she died, Daisy—in [19]66, that’s when I lost it. I just thought that was the end of the world, and I had a nervous breakdown, gained weight.

	B:	So then you decided not to be a dietician after that, or—?



	M:	Yeah. She taught me how to cook when I was six—like, five and six—and I started cooking. She taught me. Yep. But she died when I was twenty-one. So, I thought that was the end of the world.

	B:	I can’t imagine.



	M:	So, I just didn’t—. And she wanted me to go to Bethune-Cookman College. So, what I did when I had my children, my two daughters, they went to Bethune.

Yeah. One graduated, mmhm. The other one didn’t graduate, but my oldest daughter, she graduated, and she has her Master’s in Math.

	B:	In Math? Wow. That’s a hard subject M:	Yeah, hard subject.

	B:	So, you have—how many kids do you have? You have two daughters, and then you have a son.

	M:	Two sons.



	B:	Two sons. So, four?



	M:	I have—the oldest son, here, Darryl. D-A-R-R-Y-L. And he’s named after my dad, Leonard, L-E-O-N-A-R-D. And then, my oldest daughter is Daisy, so I named her





Daisy, after my mom. Her name Daisy Louise. [Laughter] Yeah, Louise. And I named them, they all got, like, he’s DL, DL, and my twins, Paul and Paula. Paula Lynnette, L-Y-N-N-E-T-T-E, and then Paul Lyndell—L-Y-N-D-E-L-L. And yeah. that’s it. Because it’s PL, PL, DL, DL. [Laughter]

	B:	That’s awesome. So, are all your kids still around Gainesville? M:	Three of them. Daisy is in Palm Coast, she lives in Palm Coast. B:	And she’s the one that got the Master’s in Math.

	M:	Yes, and Darryl my oldest son—all my kids went to P.K. Yonge. So, Darryl played—because there was two things he want to do, and my daddy told him before he died. My mom died in [19]66, and my dad died in [19]74. So. No, [19]78. I’m sorry! Yeah. [19]78. He always told him whatever he did, if he didn’t get to go to college, just be good at whatever he did. So, he wanted to play baseball and be a truck driver. So, he’s a truck driver now, and he’s a pretty good truck driver. He been driving for, going on twelve years. Mmhm, so. And he attributes everything to that. And then, my twins they kind of like fell off the wagon. They didn’t get it together too good. [Laughter]

	B:	No? That’s okay. Now, when you were in high school and in college, do you remember things like the Selma march, and when Martin Luther King was assassinated?

	M:	Yeah, I was in college.



	B:	Yeah. so, how did those kind of things—like, how did—?



	M:	It hurt. I didn’t know a lot about it but after it happened and I started reading about it, because I was in the library when Kennedy got assassinated. Yeah. So.





It was kind of close together, Kennedy and Martin Luther. It was—because he had just begun doing the great works that he was doing. And his life got taken, got shortened. It was hard for a long time. And I wondered why did they do that to him? Because I thought he was such a good person.

	B:	He was a very good person.



	M:	Yeah. And I said, “Why they take people’ lives like that?” I couldn’t understand.



	B:	Yeah. Especially a nonviolent leader. Like, why would you use violence against somebody that—

	M:	Right, that wasn’t—that didn’t do violence. Mmhm.



	B:	Yeah. Well, I guess on that same note, what does the election of Barack Obama mean for you?

	M:	It was hard, because everything we did, we had to do—like, we had to vote, everybody we voted for was White people. And now that we got a Black president, I’m just saddened that my mom and—parents couldn’t be here to know that. Because they said—they said once to me, but it’s just coming back to me; they once said, “Before the end of time, it might be a Black president.” But I didn’t pay that a lot of attention. Because I said, “How did they know that?” But all the things my mom said to me—all the things—everything she said to me has come, it has happened. Like, she said—even though she died in [19]66, all the things she said, it’s happening like she said. I mean, I can’t believe she knew all this stuff in advance. Because she told me that if I had children—but she said, “You and your brother is good, y’all obey, and you do this, and you do that. You don’t get in no trouble, no going to jail.” And that kind of stuff. But she say, “When you





have children, if you have some, that ain’t going be the case. Yours going give you a hard time.”

	B:	And is that true?



	M:	Yes. Yes. So true, so true. So true. I just couldn’t, you know. That was just mind- boggling when she would say that to me. Because she said, “You and your brother, y’all do everything we say: give us no back talk, you obey, ‘Yes ma’am,’ ‘No ma’am,’ ‘please,’ ‘thank you.’” All the things that children should do for parents, we did. I did. But she says, “It going be a different day further up on the road.” And that’s one of my favorite sayings, because I tell my children, “Further on up the road, you’re going see what I’m talking about.” My mom told me that over and over and over again. But it’s the truth. So. It was hard. It was hard just thinking about all that stuff

	B:	Hard thinking about your mom?



	M:	Mmhm. Yeah. And when I talk about it, it just get worse. So, I try not to talk about it too much. But I, when I was about six, she told me she was going teach me how to cook. Because I needed to know how to cook, because one day she wasn’t going be there with me. So, she was going teach me how to cook at an early age. And I still have the pan that I made my first cake in. And I was six years old. That pan real old! Everything she showed me how to cook, except the cinnamon rolls. She didn’t show me that. But everything else, because I like doing the old-fashioned, or the “back in the day,” as I call it. The foods from back in the day. I like canning. Because I just went to the Food Lion yesterday and bought some peaches and said, “Oh, I’m going can some of these!” Because I





like canning. You know, in the jar? You know what I’m talking about? Mmhm. Not frozen; canning. So. I like canning. I like doing all the stuff that I did back in the day. I like farming. Well, I like gardening. Certain things that I like to grow. Like onions, peanuts, sweet potatoes, tomatoes, peppers. Mmhm. Those things I like to grow. And I like canning. I like canning peaches, tomatoes, and I like making jelly.

	B:	Oh, neat! Did your mom teach you how to do all that stuff?



	M:	Yep. Yep. So, I can’t forget it, I don’t want to ever forget it. So, I do it. I didn’t can in a little while, but this way I’m going can tomatoes and peaches. Yep. She taught me how to make watermelon rind preserves, but I can’t remember how to do that one. I can’t get it back in my mind. I keep trying to figure it out, but I can’t get it.

	B:	Did you teach your kids how to do all that stuff too? M:	Yeah, I taught them, but they don’t want to do it.

	B:	No?



	M:	Mm-mm. they wait for me to do it.



	B:	Aw. But then, wat’s going to happen when, you know—?



	M:	It’s gone, it’s going to be gone. That’s all I know. And my dad, he taught me how to make bread pudding. And I should still make it like he taught me. And I make the custard, but he would make the bread into croutons, brown it. But we had a wood stove, we didn’t have electric stove or gas stove, or—. Everything was cooked with a wood stove. I had no power. We had no electricity for the whole





time I lived in that house. I lived that house from [19]45 to [19]63. And I had no electricity.

	B:	Wow. When did you guys get electricity?



	M:	Never. Not in that house. I didn’t get electricity until 1969, when I moved in to Kennedy Apartments. I made it; I didn’t have no washing machine. Didn’t have a TV or telephone. So, I just got that some of that stuff in the [19]60s, in the [19]70s.

	B:	It’s amazing, thinking about now, how we couldn’t survive without that kind of stuff! You know? It’s just—

	M:	I could survive.



	B:	Yeah, you could. I think my generation, we’re—it’s sad, it’s really—



	M:	Not even with the cell phone, you couldn’t—. I’ve had this about a year and a half, maybe. I had the account for nine years, but I didn’t get a phone ‘til a year and a half ago. [Laughter]

	B:	Yeah. So, what could you give advice to your grandchildren, your grandchildren’s grandchildren? What would your advice to them be?

	M:	They got to be patient. They got to love more, they got to be patient. Kind.



Patience, and love: those are two key things. And you can make it without some of this electronic stuff. I did! I’m sixty-three, I’ll be sixty-four in October. And I came up with no—I mean, I went from first grade, [19]50, to [19]63 with no electricity, no running water. No electric iron. And my clothes were starched and ironed every day. So, I get upset with my son when he don’t starch his clothes. Even if he have to spray-starch it. Because we didn’t have spray starch; we had





to make the starch, and hang them on the line and wait for them to dry, and then iron them. Heat the iron on the stove, iron ‘til it get cold, and you put it back up there and heat it again. And my clothes was neat all the time, every day. But Mom made sure that when I walked out, I was neat. Socks everything. But we washed it on the rub board, in the water, in the tubs, and it was clean. I did it for so many years, so it just come naturally to me. To me; now, I don’t—yeah. And TV, I didn’t know what a TV was until, oh, Lord! ‘Til I got, really, to high school.

And what I did, a typewriter. Because one of the girls that help me with my typing—she lives in Atlanta now—but I was from the middle of the country, and I was afraid when we got to Gainesville. I was afraid. So, she took me in and helped me. [Laughter]

	B:	So, where were you born?



	M:	I was born in that house, and that house still stands. And it’s not ever been wired. And the people that bought the property—it’s 346 off of 121? And they honor my father, my dad. Like, some of these roads, you know, they can have a section of it is maintained by—?

	B:	Yeah.



M:  Yeah, well, those people that bought that property from my dad, they got a whole section I think, about a whole long section of 346. And recognize my dad as “This road is maintained by the friends of [inaudible 32:26].”

B:   Oh, neat! That’s really neat.



	M:	Mmhm. I got to take a picture of it, but yeah. I walked that grounds on many a day. Yeah. And my mom taught me how to quilt, and how to sew some things.





So, that’s what I’m trying to teach her, how to make her doll a dress. That’s my granddaughter. She’s four. She be five next month, and be going to school.

Yeah.



	B:	Is she your only granddaughter? M:	No, I got ten—I think I got twelve B:	Twelve? Twelve grandchildren? M:	Twelve grandchildren, yep.

	B:	So you have a lot of them, then!



	M:	Yeah, but I don’t get to see them that often. B:	No?

	M:	No.



	B:	Do they not live around here, or—?



	M:	No, some of them don’t. And then, some of them, my son’s children, he didn’t marry some of those moms, and they kind of went away, and yeah. One called me today, the sixteen year old; she turned sixteen today and she called me. She just called for a gift. [Laughter] I tell her let me give it to her on my time; don’t ask me for it, because I don’t believe in that. I’ll give it to her on my time. So, I will get it to her. But I learned to, my mom taught me to quilt—and to embroider, but I forgot most of the embroidery stitches. But I ain’t forgotten how to quilt. I should’ve showed you some of that stuff, but I left it in the car. But I love quilting, and when I work at the Boys and Girls Club, that’s what I teach the kids: cooking and quilting. I let them make pizza, I let them make cinnamon rolls; pizza, cinnamon rolls, and cupcakes, and spaghetti.





	B:	Yeah, well, I heard about your cinnamon rolls; that was one of the things that they said you’re really good at making! [Laughter] So, those must be awesome if all of Gainesville knows about them!

	M:	Yeah. I make a lot of stuff. Because—a lady told me yesterday after church, she said, “I heard about your sweet potato pie.” I’m like, “Where did you hear that at?”

	B:	[Laughter] You’re famous!



	M:	Yeah, so. But she say, “Well, would you make me some?” I say, “Sure.” Afterward, I say, “Why did I say that?” But anyway. No, but I like doing. So, I have come a long way, and I’ve learned to be patient. To be patient, and patient some more. [Laughter]

	B:	That’s important. That’s really important



	M:	Because I used to just kind of fly off at the mouth, but I don’t do anymore. I’m really patient now.

	B:	What made you learn to be so patient?



M:  Because I think about my mom. She suffered to get me—, and she wouldn’t want me to do—. [Tearing up]

B:  It sounds like your mom had a huge impact on you. M:  She did. Not the one in New York, but the one here. B:  Daisy?

M:  Yeah. Yep. My real mom lives in New York. So. B:   Do you ever talk to your real mom anymore?

M:   If she’ll talk to me on the phone. Sometimes she’ll hang up on me. I went up there twice. I caught the train, myself and my youngest, and one of the twins, the





boy. She ignored me so, too. She loved him. People would come over to see her, and she would say, “Oh, this is my grandson from Florida.” You know, like. And I’m sitting there. And they’ll say, “Well Ms. Gorhan, who is this?” “Oh, she just somebody from Florida.” It used to hurt me so bad. When I’d hear people coming, I’d go in the room, and I wouldn’t come out.

	B:	I can’t imagine.



	M:	But it happened. She has sisters that live here. All her sisters lived here, and they would always say, “Well, we love you, but that ain’t no mother’s love.”

	B:	Well, sounds like your mom, Daisy, was really special, to teach you all the stuff? I mean, that’s—

	M:	Oh, yeah! She was special, special, special.



	B:	She reminds me—when you talk about her, she reminds me of my grandma. M:	Really?

	B:	That’s exactly how my grandma is. Well, she just passed away about a month ago.

	M:	Oh, really?



	B:	But she taught everybody how to paint, and how to sew, and you know, so—I’m going to cry. [Laughter]

	M:	And you still—can you do it? B:	Yeah, yeah.

	M:	You sew?





	B:	Yep. And she taught me how to china paint, and she’s an amazing cook. So, it remind me a lot, whenever you talk about your mom, it reminds me of my grandma. Those are just special people.

	M:	Yep. Because you know, that’s where the nurturing come from, and that’s why I have the caring spirit. And maybe I try to do too many things, but sometimes I get all—get really bogged down, and can’t get it together, but. But then I have to slow down and say, “Would Momma do all this?” No, she would say, “Take one day at a time, and do whatever you’re doing, do it good. And try not to do everything at once.” So, now I have to try to pace it and space it out. That’s why I’m saying “patience.” [Laughter]

	B:	That’s good advice. Especially for nowadays. So. M:	Now, what is oral history? It goes into what, now?

	B:	The oral history that we’re doing right now—I’m sorry I should have explained this before the interview started. This will be transcribed. So, after our interview’s over, I’m going to go back and type up the whole interview. And then, it’s going to go into—I have some consent forms that I didn’t bring. So I’m going to have to maybe come by, maybe sometime tomorrow, and just have you sign them, just a really quick little—.

	M:	I’ll be at the health department from eight-thirty to twelve-thirty, and then I’m going to Duval the rest of the day. So I’ll be at Duval.

	B:	Okay, so if tomorrow doesn’t work, maybe the next day. Just—and then—. M:	I’m in Duval every day. [Laughter]





	B:	Okay. And then, after that, they’re going into the archives at the school. In the future, when historians are doing research on Gainesville, they can come and they can pick up the transcript, and they can listen to your story, and they can hear about all the different things that your family has taught you, and the experiences you’ve had. And—

	M:	Because I didn’t, I failed to say that I was raised on the farm. And that’s why I can’t—because I live in an apartment now, I can maintain a garden, but I can’t have it where I had, and it’s just a whole lot of rigmarole. It just hurts my heart. And I can’t see how Gainesville housing can just do that to me. But I like just simple gardening—simple gardening. So. Some things, I can’t get away from.

	B:	So, what are the organizations you’re involved in now? I have that you work with the Fine Arts Academy.

	M:	What’s the Fine Arts Academy? Oh, at Duval! [Laughter] Yeah.



	B:	The Foster Grandparents program, and you’re in the Hope to the World church, and you’re in the Culinary and Hospitality Committee?

	M:	[Laughter] Uh-huh. How you get all that from? B:	Because I have connections! [Laughter]

	M:	Okay, okay; that’s all right! B:	No, from Jackie, and—

	M:	Oh, Dr. McNealy?



	B:	Yep. Yep. So, tell me about that. Tell me about the work that you do now.



	M:	Okay, I’m with the program at Florida Works. You had to be sixty, and low income. And I applied, and I got accepted, and I got the job. You can do twenty





hours a week, and they pay you—like, minimum wage. But Foster Grandparent only pay two sixty-five. So my morning job is that, and then my afternoon job is Foster Grandparents. So, that’s what I do to keep myself busy, because I think the older I get, the more I think about my mom and all what she did, and how she raised me and taught me, and what she taught me, and how she taught me. So, I try to keep busy. That’s what I do, I try to keep busy. I am a homemaker, also; that’s through the Alachua County Extension Office.

	B:	Oh, okay.



	M:	But I’ll be going back to that in September. B:	Now, what is that? Homemaker for hospice?

	M:	No, it’s the Extension homemakers? It’s through the University of Florida. And the office is out on 39th. And what else I do? I got to do something, it’s something else I do. Oh, Lord! I guess that’s all I—those two big volunteer things. But as they call them, “paid volunteer,” but you know, you don’t get a lot of money. [Laughter] You don’t get rich. Well, I have to keep granddaughter. Take her to school, pick her up. Oh, I’m in the Quilt Guild. It’s Alachua County. I didn’t bring that—I’ll give you that name, correct name. I’m in that. And I’m the outreach coordinator for them, for the Quilt Guild.

	B:	Neat1



	M:	Mmhm. Because I teach—when they found out I was working at the Boys and Girls Club, they gave me a lot of supplies and materials to help them with they little quilt projects. And they were making quilts, and in May 2010, they quilts going hang at the public library downtown.





	B:	Oh, neat! The quilts that you guys made at the Boys and Girls Club? M:	Yeah, the Boys and Girls Club, mmhm.

	B:	Oh, how neat! That’s really cool. I bet that’s really rewarding. M:	Yeah. And I go to Top’s. You heard of Top’s?

	B:	I heard you were gonna get an award for—how much weight did you lose?



	M:	Over a hundred pounds, but they only give it to you in hundred-pound increments. So, I go the 14th of July to Disney World to get the award. They call it a “medallion.”

	B:	Congratulations!



	M:	[Laughter] When I went to the doctor today, he say, “You lost eight pounds since the last time you was here!” It’s not easy to lose weight. It’s not. I was like—now, a lot of people coming up to me, and they say, “Oh, Ms. Manning, I can see that you have lost weight!” And I say, “Oh, okay, thank you!” Because my blood pressure have gone down to, it’s a hundred and twenty now, over sixty. Because, see, in December I came down with the worst case of gout you ever want to know, or see, or hear of. My right foot and ankle hurt so bad. It took me about fifteen minutes to walk from, when I parked my car to come up here to my son’s door. And he say, “Mom, there’s no need for you to go to the hospital. They not going do nothing for you.” So, I said, “Son, take me to North Florida.” So we went to North Florida. And they keep me for a week. They said they never kept nobody that long. So. Morphine didn’t touch the pain. It was hurting just as bad. So, after he say just don’t—they told me all the different meats you can’t eat; fish, seafood





and stuff. Because I was only eating seafood. But now I don’t eat any of it. It hurts me, but I don’t eat it. I won’t eat it, I can’t. So, that’s what I’m doing.

	B:	So, how long have you been a member of Top’s?



	M:	I’ve been a member of Top’s a little while, I think since the late [19]90s. But then, I just made up in my mind that it’s me that has to lose the weight. So, I came from four-fifty to where I am now in the twos. So.

	B:	Wow! Congratulations!



	M:	Mmhm. So, I just made up in my mind: if I eat something wrong—or, I shouldn’t say it’s wrong—I just don’t eat it again. Just make that mistake and move on. So, it’s hard now, it’s hard! Ain’t easy!

	B:	Oh, I know! Believe me, I know!



	M:	[Laughter] So I just eat tomato sandwiches, and tomatoes in salads, and cucumbers, cabbage, and broccoli, and just stuff like that. That’s all I been eating. And cheese—what that stuff? String cheese. I never—I thought only children ate that! [Laughter] Now I know; and yogurt, and cottage cheese. But I like plain yogurt. I don’t like diet stuff. Low sugar, no sugar, I don’t like that. I’d rather not have nothing if I got to have that.

	B:	Good for you! I don’t think that stuff’s supposed to be good for you anyways, you know, diet stuff.

	M:	Yeah, I don’t bother it, I just—and you know, the doctor say eat a couple eggs a day. It’s hard for me to do that, now. But I got to get some protein, so. I buy these eggs, and got to eat two today. That’s the only thing that’s hard. I don’t know if they got the air conditioning on or the heater!





B:   Okay, just a couple more questions, and I’ll let you get back. So, I feel like I know a lot about your childhood, and now. So, what about the middle of your life? Like, whenever you graduated college, what did you do after that?

	M:	I came back home. I was living in Leesburg with my mom Daisy’s brother and his wife, in Leesburg. And I was active in church down there, in St. Stephens AME church. Then when I came home, I got a job and started working. I worked at Alachua General. And then, that’s when I had that first child. And the day he turned three months old, that’s the day she died. He born September 23rd, and she died December 23rd. And my momma, my real momma, came from New York. But she wouldn’t stay to help plan the funeral. And I’m like—my brother and I said, “Mom, she done took care of us all these years. And you’re not going be here for us?” But she left and went back to New York. And I passed out on that boy. He was three months old, and I fell back on him. And thank God. He could have been dead too; nobody know I had passed out. I didn’t know I had laid on that little three-month-old baby! [Laughter]

	B:	Oh, no! But he’s okay.



	M:	Yeah, he fine. But, I didn’t know. But after that, that’s when I started gaining the weight. Because I was a little bit larger than you; I wasn’t heavy. I wasn’t heavy. And I started gaining weight, and having nervous breakdowns, and going to Vista or wherever they took me. But I don’t want to ever go there again. I went there in 2000 and something, but I don’t ever, ever, never want to do that again.

	B:	Go where?





	M:	Vista. Mental health. I mean, that’s the place where the nervous breakdown. I don’t want to ever go there again.

	B:	Okay. Oh, yeah. So, how long did you have to stay there?



	M:	They kept me over a week. They usually keep you seventy-two hours, but they kept me a long time. And then, the rest of the time, I worked at—I went back to school, went to Santa Fe. I got enough hours at Santa Fe to graduate. I had like sixty-two? Sixty-something hours. But see, I already had a AA degree, so I couldn’t get another AA. So I let them hours hang out there. But my mom always wanted me to go to Bethune, and now the lady had just started preparing my stuff to go to Bethune, but the extension they had here, they closed it. No, no, I’m not going to Daytona. So that’s what I did, and then I worked. All the other times, I volunteered or worked in nursing homes, or cooked at nursing homes. Stuff like that. Because when I gained the weight, then I couldn’t get a job. They always say, “You too heavy. You overweight,” and this and that. So.

	B:	So you faced a lot of discrimination because of that.



	M:	Lots of—a lot of discrimination. Still do at certain times. So that’s why, every time they say it’s something that you can do and you sixty, I go for it. Because I done, all my other times, because of your weight, couldn’t do it. And that was my dilemma. And it was really bad. And I just didn’t know how. And I would see, like, Janzay, she is the coordinator for information and referral, and she twice my size. But she’s White. But she got a job. And I mean, a high-faluting job. I couldn’t even get—you know. So yeah, I’ve been discriminated against. And now, after seeing now with me, that I know what my mom kept me from seeing. It





ain’t easy, seeing people let that happen to you. That shouldn’t have to be. Because everybody should be equal. Not in these days and times! Even a man eighty-eight years old, he still have all that hatred built up in him.

	B:	What man?



	M:	That killed, and went in that—yeah, he’s still had all that built up. Eighty-eight, and he still had all that. Talked about Obama is come from the Jew descent and something, all kinds of things. So. It’s just, it’s not gone yet. [Laughter]

	B:	Right. You’re referring to the man that went to the holocaust museum and shot—



	M:	Mmhm, yeah. So, it’s still there! And I just pray that it go away. But I don’t know. I just keep praying that it does go away. I suffered enough. [Laughter] I really did. How you going get all this, get what I just said? But you know how to do it.

	B:	Yeah. They’re going to send me this recording, and then I just have to listen to it and I type it. And then, you’re going to get a copy of it. And you can go through and make changes, and mark stuff out if you want to. Just whatever kind of, you know, you want to do.

	M:	Okay, something, if I missed something?



	B:	Yeah. Or like, if you maybe said something, and you’re like, “Oh, I don’t know if I want this—I don’t know if I want people to know that,” you can just cross it out and it’ll be off the record. So, that’s about it. Is there anything else you wanted to say?

	M:	Like I said, we—I milk cows, we used to milk the little cows. That’s how we did.



But see, we raised—all our stuff was, we raised it on the farm; all our vegetables, all our meats, everything right there on the farm.





	B:	Was the farm in the Long Pine area, that house? M:	Mmhm, yeah.

	B:	How neat!



	M:	Yeah. We had to pump the water. It was 1959. Yeah, we had a pump; water came out of it. Put a bucket there, and water come out it. Then we had chickens. We had the hogs. And we put them in the smokehouse. My brother and I, we had a hog apiece. So, we could eat whatever part we want. He cut off of his for breakfast, whatever. And I—that’s the way they did us. I just had—and that’s why a lot of peoples, older peoples, see me now, and they’ll say, “You were spoiled when you were being raised!” I wasn’t spoiled. I was just one child. I’m the only girl. So.

	B:	So, a lot of people say that you were spoiled?



	M:	Well, they think that because that’s the way my parents raised us. They raised myself—whatever we needed, he got it, I got it. We wasn’t really spoiled. I don’t think so. I don’t think you can really spoil a child. People think you can. I don’t think so. But children need love, and when they don’t get it, they going be children always. So, that’s the way I look at it. Yeah, so. I love mine, I still love them.

	B:	Now, you have sixteen, or twelve grandchildren to— M:	To love, yeah.

	B:	Yeah. That’s great. Well, is there anything else that you wanted to add?





	M:	No. But when I get it back and see it, I might. Now, another girl, another teacher from Williams Elementary, she did mine. She did this, but she had me on a TV thing.

	B:	Really? Like a videotape? M:	Mmhm.

	B:	Neat!



	M:	With a big screen like TV, and made me up, because I had all of them hot lights. [Laughter]

	B:	How neat! So, what did you guys talk about then, in that interview? M:	The same thing.

	B:	Same stuff?



	M:	And had pictures. She wanted pictures, so I showed her all of the pictures. B:	Well, you had some neat stuff happen in your life. I mean—

	M:	Yep, I was born in the woods, middle of the woods. I tell Vernell Brown, “Boy, you better not tell nobody you from Archer or I’m going tell them different! Because you was from back in them woods that I was.” [Laughter] He’s from the same area, that famous football from Florida? Yeah. Come from Long Pine, there! So, it’s a few people still live there that was born there. She taught school at Buchholz, but she still live in the same area, in the same house. Well now, she bought a mobile home, but she right there on the property. So. Mmhm, yeah.

	B:	So, you had a pretty different childhood than most people nowadays.



	M:	Everybody had they moms and dads, and I didn’t have mine. And they wanted us, when we went to Sunday school, the church was New St. Thomas Baptist





Church, and they wanted us to say, “Uncle Leonard and Aunt Daisy.” But we said everybody else saying, “Momma and Daddy,” so why can’t we say that? So, that’s how I did it. So, we didn’t say Uncle and Aunt, we said Mom and Dad. We did have a different raising. And it’s still really different, and sometime it’s hard to explain why it’s so different. It’s hard to explain sometime. Because like, with this family member, my dad is related to the Beatys who are in Gainesville. So, it was a long time before I knew that I was related to the Beatys. And now, everything they do now, I’m involved. All the family reunions and outings. So, I feel good about that. But I don’t do Manning, so I don’t know where they originated from anyway. My dad is from Palmetto/Bradenton area. Mmhm. Yeah. And my mom, she was there in Palmetto, in Bradenton, with Leonard’s other brother. But they told her that the term they used when it was time for me to be born, that you can’t find no baby in this house. So you going have to move. You going have to go.

So, she called this uncle, the Leonard uncle, and he said, “Come on, come on, come on.” I’ll do whatever I can. And that’s what happened. He accepted her in, and I was born there at the house. I think weighing twelve pounds and something. I don’t know exactly how many—I know it’s twelve, but I don’t know if it was ounces or whatever, but I know it was twelve pounds. That’s a big baby! [Laughter] And my son was a big baby, he was nine-fifteen.

	B:	So, your mother and father on the farm, was that their job? Or did he or Daisy leave at all to work, or?

	M:	She went into the home. After I got to high school—she stayed home and did all the work—the canning, the cooking, the washing, the sewing—until I got to high





school. Because when I got to high school, that required more things. We had to have the class ring, and the this, and the prom, all that stuff. So, she went out and got a job with the Parishes. So, yeah. So, that’s how it went.

	B:	That’s neat. Well, I think—is there anything else that you wanted to talk about? M:	Did you want the age of my children or not?

	B:	Sure. Yeah, that’d be great.



	M:	Darryl’s forty-two; Daisy’s forty-one, and Paul and Paula is forty. B:	That’s really neat that you had twins.

	M:	Yes. Because my mom’s sister is in the family on that side of the family. My mom’s sister was a twin, had twins but sisters. And then, two of the sisters had twins. And then, I think my set was the fourth set. I think it’s more two more sets since mine.

	B:	I’ve always wanted twins, but we don’t have any twins in our family.



	M:	Really? It was a little difficult to do it, because they were seven pounds each— seven pounds, one ounce; seven pound. Then they ate a lot. And then, everything one did, the other one did. So, it was kinda rough.

	B:	Yeah, I bet. Mmhm.



	M:	Had to fix two bowls at one time. Oh, that was rough. But I got through. Yeah, I made it through.

	B:	Now, did you ever get married or anything? M:	No.

	B:	Good for you!





	M:	No it’s not. Sometime, I desire to be married, but whatever. Didn’t make it. I might one day. I’ll be old lady, though.

	B:	You never know!



	M:	Everybody say, “If you get married, we going do this for you, that for you.” Yeah, right! [Laughter] I’m not even—I’m fine just like I am. Because I do a lot of things. You know, sometimes you can’t explain that to people

	B:	Right. Well show them this list and say, “See all this? Look at all this that I do!” [Laughter]

	M:	But I really like working with people, and I say if I could be helpful to somebody, that’s what I would like to do. But my main thing is, I would like for one of my children to make some of the dishes that I make.

	B:	So, that’s important to you?



	M:	I think I talked Darryl into learning to make a couple things. He like cooking, but he don’t want to—but he thinks this one going want to do it. Because when I’m cooking at my apartment, she’ll want to measure. She’ll want—I say, “Well, Granny don’t measure a lot, so it’s going be hard.” So I’m going have to try to break it down and measure for her. But I don’t measure a lot. [Laughter] I don’t!

	B:	That’s amazing!



	M:	I know! Because I’m kind of used to it now. Like, the church, I need to get four cakes ready for the church for Friday. Because they said it’s spaghetti dinners, and the girl that’s doing the spaghetti dinners, I taught them how to make it. So, they doing it, and I don’t have to do it anymore. So now she say, “All I want you to do is keep making the cakes.” So I got to make four cakes about—like, four





half-sheet cakes. She said you do that; you done taught me how to make the spaghetti. And people still buying it, so it must be all right. [Laughter]

	B:	Yeah it must be good.



	M:	She told me if I make the cakes for them, they can handle other stuff. So. But again, I’m teaching her how to do—I’m going let her make the cakes. That’s what she was asking me for a piece. She just put the eggs, she cracked the eggs in.

And then I let her take the ice cream scoop and put it in the pan. So. She just four, but she trying. She did a good job. She did a good job. She made it for her daddy. I told her daddy, I said, “You got to eat it. Whether you want it or not, you got to eat it.” Wasn’t gonna hurt him. He could eat a piece of it. Mmhm. And she got, “My daddy, my daddy,” she says “my daddy” for every little teeny-weeny thing.

	B:	Well, she’s really sweet. She’s really polite! That’s very rare. [Laughter] M:	Yeah, my sons—my children are, too. I don’t believe in this, “Yeah,” “No,”

“What?” No ma’am, you can’t do that! Now, you don’t do that! Not appropriate language. And if she accidentally say, “What?” And I’ll say, “Were you talking to one of your friends?” No, I don’t play that. Now, even with my kids, and they forty-some years old. They have to—they respect all the people that I’m in contact with. It’s “Yes, ma’am,” and “No, ma’am.” Now, on the other foot, their daughters and sons call me by my name. But my children call them by “Ms.” whatever their first name or their last name. And their children are the same age

as mine, and they’ll call me by my name. I don’t appreciate it. And one day I said, “Have you ever heard Darryl call your mom by her name—just her name?” And





they look at me, “No, ma’am.” “Respect me the same way.” And that’s all I ask. All I ask.

	B:	That’s getting lost so much, it’s amazing. And there’s some people that just don’t mind, but it’s a respect thing.

	M:	It’s a respect thing. Now, at Duval Academy, even the girl on the front desk, she’s along up with my age, she’s along with me—well, she’s a little younger than I am.

	U1:	I’m going to get a piece of cake.



	M:	What’s the other part of it? What’s the other part? U1:	Please.

	M:	She make all those kids that come through, come to that desk, have to say “Yes ma’am,” “No ma’am,” “Please,” “May I,” you know. And that’s—it’s just the respect. And I keep telling them, “You’re going respect me. I’m not going to dance to your music. I’m not going to go down there. Now, you might say, ‘yeah,’ and ‘no,’ and ‘what’ to your mom or your grandmomma, but not to this one.” So, I don’t—my son say, “Ma, you too hard on people!” No I’m not! I mean, it’s just respect. We couldn’t do that in no school. No school. And I started school in [19]50. Yeah, we couldn’t do that. I started in [19]50. We had to say “Yes ma’am,” “no ma’am”; I mean, the whole nine yards. And the first time I ate some jello? I was scared of it, because it was shaking. I think I was in—what grade I was in? I think I was in second grade? Third grade. Because I know my first grade teacher would eat my lunch every Monday after Sunday, every time.

Because we took, our lunch consist of whatever we had for Sunday dinner. You know, we had potato salad, and curry rice, chicken, peas, whatever; that’s what





we put in our lunch. And that teacher would take my lunch every Monday after Sunday. And give us peanut butter and jelly, and I didn’t know what that was. I thought I was eating a steak sandwich or something. And then, she would give us jello for dessert. Stuff be shaking; I was scared of it! [Laughter] So, I hope I was a help.

	B:	Oh, this is great! Thank you so much. M:	You welcome.

	B:	For sitting down with me and telling me all that stuff. This is great. Thank you so much.

	M:	So how many you have to do? B:	Just you.

[End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, August 2, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019