AAHP 678; McIntosh; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 689 Frankie McIntosh 7-7-2019 Interviewed by Deon Winchester on July 7, 2019 68 minutes | 15 pages



Abstract: Retired physical education teacher Frankie McIntosh recalls her experiences as a black student in the segregated Escambia County school system, and later as a teacher in the same county, now integrated. She describes how she accomplished her education, from attending Booker T. Washington high school, where she later taught, to graduating from Florida A&M University after studying health and physical education.

McIntosh relays the numerous changes she has observed in the school system from the 1940s, when she was a student, to the 1970s, when she began teaching. She remembers the advice she was given as a student, as well as the wisdom she passed down to her students.



Keywords: [education, African American history, Pensacola, southern, high school, physical education, segregation, integration, teacher, student, Escambia County]



AAHP 689

Interviewee: Frankie McIntosh Interviewer: Deon Winchester Date: July 7, 2019

	W:	My name is Deon Winchester, I’m with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, today is Sunday July 7th, 2019, and I am with Mrs. Frankie McIntosh. Mrs. McIntosh, thank you for taking the time to share your story with us today.

	M:	You’re welcome. W:	How are you today? M:	I’m doing fine.

	W:	Aw, man. Indeed, indeed. Let’s begin, you know, we have a lot of history to cover. Where are you from? Are you originally from Pensacola?

	M:	No, I’m from a little place called Moprism Garden in Gadsden County. It’s about forty miles from Tallahassee and ten miles from Chattahoochee.

	W:	Indeed. What, may I ask, brought you to Pensacola?



	M:	My mom. She was quite gregarious and so she moved to Pensacola, I guess, to do better, you know—living conditions.

	W:	Do you have any stories, any recollection, of your mom? And your family?



Grandparents?



	M:	My mom, yes. It’s basically my mom and I. Always together, wherever she went I would go. And of course, when we finally got to Pensacola, I thought it would be named school named Devon, that’s where I started off. And then we moved in the city, and I started going to school at L.A. Cursey. Mmhm. And of course, we left Pensacola stayed, went back to Florida, stayed down there so many years I don’t recall the number of years but we stayed there. Finally went back to Pensacola, Florida in 1941—was it 1941? Well, in 1941 we were here in Pensacola, then we went back to—when we came back it was 1947. I got here,





started high school at Booker T. Washington High School in 7th grade, that’s when everybody was mixed up from 7th through 12th, mmhm.

	W:	What year was that?



	M:	[19]47 when we got back.



	W:	[19]47. I heard you were a student here?



	M:	I was a student at Washington. And I attended also the Washington Junior College before going to FAMU.

	W:	Indeed. You’ve been here quite a number of years; can you speak to the changes you have seen over the years?

	M:	[Laughter] I guess I can, it’s a lot of changes I’ve seen, you know. We had the sit- ins and sit-outs, that brought about a change. Of people thinking, actions in the community. But basically, the thing I’m going to say like that, a lot of changes that have taken place, and where our children sat in—I can’t recall the year that they they sat in at the counters in--What’s the name of that store downtown?

Newberry’s, those kinds of stores they sat in. And I wasn’t in it, but I heard they were spat on and all kinds of things happened, but the children stood fast and they prevailed. So that was something that, you know, I never will forget. Yeah. And then of course, in the school system, it stayed the same until—What?—in the [19]90s, I believe, in the school system.

	W:	What was it like for you, you know, experiencing that changed throughout from when you first started school, I’m sure, from segregation to a desegregated school?





	M:	Mmhm. Well, for me, I’ve tried to have a positive attitude about life. You fit in, do what you can. So, I had no trouble at Washington, that was the first school that I walked from Washington High School—I think at that time it was ninth through twelfth. But anyway, then I had no trouble. There might’ve been some confusions when I wanted to do certain things, and so people couldn’t see where I was going so that type of thing was separate. But then, of course, I was moved from Washington to Woodham High School. So far as the segregation part of it, it was quite obvious. Because everybody in my department, which was physical education, was moved except me. I went to summer school, and when I got back, they had moved me, you see. So that was a blow because I had moved in my working materials or anything saying that I’m going to be at the same school. But anyway, they moved me to Woodham High School. I had no trouble there whatsoever, not with the students and such, and not with the teachers. Because I’ve always tried to treat people like I want them to treat me, and also to do what is right. With whomever be it red, green, pink, or orange—if you do the right thing, you will prevail. So that was part of it, yeah. It’s called being a [inaudible] get it out eventually. But the transition from Washington to Woodham was very different. But everybody I came in contact at Woodham, respected me from my point of view. I had a little trouble, sometimes I would walk in the halls and I’d say, “Good morning.” Nobody would speak. I’d say, “I said good morning.” They’d speak. You know? That’s just the kind of thing they had been used to. But if you convey yourself to the point that you can reach out, it’ll come back.





	W:	Indeed. Well said. You talk about that positive attitude, and treating others how you would like to be treated. Can you talk about where that came from, what were some of the influences in your life coming up as a child?

	M:	My grandmother. My great aunt, which was my grandmother’s sister. My grandmother’s sister-in-law, my uncles, great uncles, all those had impacts. The closest one, I guess, was my grandmother. She always taught that, and it was handed down, I guess.

	W:	What do you recall most about your grandmother?



	M:	She was a very stern person. If she said something, she meant it. And she didn’t back up. And she was straight, she could remember people’s names, families, down to the years. She could do math in her head faster than I could do on paper. She was just a good woman; she didn’t talk much but if she got in her head, you knew what to do.

	W:	Yes.



	M:	So, she had an impact. Of course, being an only child with my mother, she had an impact too. Because mother was quite sick, she [inaudible]. Yeah, and because I, down through there, out in that area, where we got these churches: you went to Sunday school, went to church, you went back to eat, you went back to church that night, you know? And I had a lot to do, because my daddy was there, he was in the church and we knew each other and all that kind of stuff. But that kind of background is what I had.





	W:	The church has often played an integral role within the Black community and hearing you express that, what was church like for you? How did that serve as that foundation for your life?

	M:	Well, it was great because that’s where I was converted, in that church. W:	What was the name of that church, do you remember?

	M:	Saint Mary CME Church of Mount Pleasant, Florida. Yeah. And you know at that time you had to go down to the priest and get up tired– they put you in that water and pull you back up. Fact of the matter is I had no trouble with going to church. I knew I had to get up Sunday morning and go to church, I knew I had to go those other times that I mentioned. So, I had no trouble with that. So, I’d just go up. The church, Lord have mercy, now-a-days, we as parents don’t sometimes push the issue. Even though our children may get angry with us, we still need to push that issue. A lot of times I didn’t want to go, but I had to go. Yeah.

	W:	Indeed. What about some of your early education here? Were you a student of Mr. Willie James?

	M:	No, no. I didn’t get here until after all that. I came, like I said, she was in and I knew about her from Amy Duvant, but I never had an opportunity to go. I moved from, like I said, Devont to LA Cursey to out of town. Then from out of town back to Pensacola and to Washington High School, I went to Washington Junior College and finally I went to after getting my AB degree there, I went to FAMU University, and had a spill at FAMU, I got my Bachelor of Science degree in physical education and health and moved from there to teachers college where I started working on my master’s in education. So, I had a combination of schools





to complete. But we’re poor, you can’t go too fast, you have to have money. In order for me to stay in New York, going to teachers college, I had to have money. When the points went up, that eliminated me, I didn’t have the money. So, I came back and went to—I can’t think of the name of the school, but it’s headquartered in Alabama. And I went there, and I finished the requirements for a master’s degree.

	W:	And what year was that?



	M:	Oh Lord. Let’s see, it was in the [19]60s or the early [19]70s, I can’t recall right now. [19]60s or early [19]70s. I think it was in the [19]70s, yeah, that I completed that.

	W:	You know the [19]60s and [19]70s was quite a changing time in the American landscape, how did that have an impact in your decision to pursue your education and to become a teacher?

	M:	Well, I made up my mind, there was no turning back. That’s just the kind of person I am. I start something and I want to finish it. And I did. As a result, I have four children, I was four years behind. That didn’t stop me.

	W:	You know, you talk about coming from economic and what support did you have from family and community in support of your education? How were you able to fund your--?

	M:	It wasn’t until junior college that I received scholarship. I don’t recall how much it was, but I didn’t have to pay a thing to go to Washington College. My church gave me something to assist with books, and then when I went to FAMU, I worked, saved my money, used what I had to pay for books and what my tuition





was, and I didn’t say in the dormitory. I lived in a house. That was taken care of. I mean, my support from my mother, because at that time I had three children. [Laughter] And so she helped me a lot, yeah. And also, my grandmother. And that was—they encouraged me to keep up.

	W:	Yes, that family and community support is important. Now, what made you decide to be a teacher?

	M:	I don’t know, mother wanted me to be a doctor. And I guess I didn’t want to take all that time to go through that work that I thought it took to be a doctor. So, then we had a friend named Theodora Williams, and she did encourage me to go to school. She was in the same area, so I think that kind of teed it off there because I had somebody back me up.

	W:	For the record, you speak of your grandmother and your mother’s influence, what were their names?

	M:	My mother’s name was Brenna Curts. My grandmother’s name was Emma Curts. Emma Dees Curts. Mmhm, yeah, those were the two. And when I was at FAMU, they kept my children. I didn’t have to pay them a cent, but they just took care of them. That one went to school with me at FAMU, Cheryl.

	W:	Cheryl. Last born?



	M:	No, my second-born. I had Ronald and tired out with Sheila, my firstborn. And then of course I had the third one, Daryl Craig McIntosh. And then Brenna had four. What’s his name—Daryl Craig Vernon McIntosh. Daryl is dead now, yeah.

	W:	Sorry to hear that. Sheila is still with you, right? M:	Oh yeah. She’s my all-in-all.





	W:	Indeed, indeed. Physical education, why physical education?



	M:	I enjoyed it. I thought I was an athlete, you know, I played basketball, I tried to play tennis which was very low. And I did—at Washington I was a member of the chorus, I was a cheerleader, I played basketball, and I did what they called modern dance. Did I say I played in the band?

	W:	No, you didn’t. I lost count there. [Laughter]



	M:	Well, I played in the band. Cheryl played in the band too. W:	Indeed.

	M:	But, I was always active. So that probably was what pushed me that way too.



	W:	Yeah, yeah. Physical education indeed. Now what was that transition after completing your education? What was the transition like into the work force and becoming a teacher, especially in the—you say in the [19]70s, I guess, you would have completed--?

	M:	Just a little bit before that I completed—in the [19]60s I started working at Booker



T. Washington High School. It was [19]61. Yeah, thereabouts. But, no great thing. I learned a lot though because what they teach you in school—it’s not necessarily true and not necessarily applicable. Because you’ve got to find people and teach them at their level. And sometimes I’d got my good lesson plans and da-da-da but the kids are not getting it. So, you’ve got to teach where they can comprehend whatever it is. The idea in physical education with a lot of children was the fact that physical education was not a subject. “We don’t do this in PE,” they’d call it. Well, I was taught that you teach the whole child. Not part of the child, but the whole child. That meant physically, mentally, socially,





emotionally. That meant the physical body and the things of the mind. And if you go to English, I’d always say, “You got to English and make all these A’s and B’s in English, when you come to physical education, you’re supposed to be able to utilize them. You’re not supposed to come to physical education and be incoherent. Or make incomplete sentences. If I tell you that Minne Lou said, “Volleyball is when?” When did volleyball get to be a when? [Laughter] Not in my life! So, these are the kind of things that I was concerned with. And now, my pet peeve—one of my pet peeves was—I had two—when you tried to expose them to this I’d say, “I don’t teach you anything.” That was my philosophy. You teach yourself. I expose you to stuff that we think you need to know at this level and at that time I worked only 9th through 12th. All of them high school level, so I had children coming to me with all kinds of ideas, but you teach yourself and when I expose you to these things then you teach yourself how to utilize this particular thing. That was my thought about that. I said, “If you can go to mathematics, make your A’s and B’s, when I come and ask you about the dimensions of this or how to do that with mathematics you ought to know.” Something, I don’t teach algebra but at least I teach that part of mathematics—when you should add two and two. And then you go to social studies, you should know something about your community, something about the social part of the area. But a lot of them didn’t. And of course, at Woodham, we had expulsion—as well as other schools in the city— about fighting. The very day that it started, I was at home sick or something and couldn’t get up but when I got back there was so much—Oh! You could feel it in the area, with children going to winter trying to see what’s going to





happen this day. And it took all I could do to get them to get away from the bender you know what’s going on, sit here and think about something else. Think about the positive things that you can do to help the situation. There was another issue—the cafeteria—they wanted to do something in the cafeteria, they won’t let us put the—they say, “Why don’t you think about beautifying the cafeteria instead of putting the chairs together?” They got what needed to like give it to the people in charge and let them know what you would like to eat and that type of thing. So that’s the attitude that I had to have towards those situations. Because I didn’t want them to go out there fighting, and what they were fighting for will still be there when they’re finished fighting.

	W:	Seems like there were lifelong lessons they could take with them beyond school. M:	Yeah, one kid asked me, he would say, “Well are you a preacher?” I’d say, “No.”

They’d ask, “Are you an English teacher?” I said, “No, none of that! But I’m trying to get you to be one.” Yeah, be a preacher. Be a teacher, be an English teacher, whatever kind but be the best that you can be. Don’t accuse somebody of your not succeeding because you had the opportunity. Yeah.

	W:	I bet you graduated a bunch of wonderful students who have gone on to do a lot of—

	M:	I have, and it’s everyday its everywhere I go I see someone—I just saw a girl over there at lunch and I said, “Well who are you?” because I can’t remember her name. And she said, “Caroline,” and then it kind of brought back some thoughts to me. But these are the kinds of things you ought to see. After working hard.

And I say hard, it’s hard. But when I went from Washington to Woodham I had no





more trouble as such at Washington than I did at Woodham. Because that’s where I tried to bring up my kids. Said, “If I’m sarcastic with you, you have a right to be sarcastic with me.” That’s the way I raised them. I used to tell Washington especially, at the end of class, “I love you.” So many people don’t take time to say, “I love you,” and they’d look around like I was crazy, telling me I—so when I got to Woodham I continued with that, “I love you.” And I meant it. I wasn’t just saying it just to call words, but I meant that I loved the children that I taught. And I had so many, so many come back and thank me. I had my one last two weeks ago, he’s down in Broke Pierce, I called him, and I told him I was in his area. “Now when I come you come on by my house” But I didn’t’ have time because I went on a cruise, but then he called me after we got back from the cruise and he said, “Well I know y’all are busy” and I said yeah because I was heading to Pensacola, but this is the kind of thing, reward you get, when you see the day. I think he’s the very one I taught and said, “Boy, you can’t even read. You got to learn to read.” But he did. And now he’s able to support his family in a decent manner and he’s got a nice home and he’s got his business. That’s the reward you get from all that.

	W:	Talk about, you know, you went to different schools and you touched on it a bit earlier on, you taught at Booker T?

	M:	Mmhm.



	W:	And what was that like?



	M:	At Booker T. Washington? Fine. I enjoyed it, I didn’t have trouble with nobody. No one, I should say. I enjoy working at Washington, most of the people I knew,





most a lot of them knew me before I even finished FAMU, Washington High School.

	W:	Is that Washington was where you went after Booker T? M:	Booker T. Washington, it’s the same thing.

	W:	Yes—when Booker T. closed in [19]69, I believe, where did you go after?



	M:	Okay, now that’s not the same Booker T. The Booker T that I went to was located on Cervantes—what’s that street after Cervantes? Strong. Beautiful building.

Academically inviting. That’s where I went. Then they moved it only Hard Drive, what is now called Texar Drive, that’s where I taught. And I got the job, I was putting my children in school, in elementary school. And the principal called me up at there to tell me to come work and I worked there eight years and then they moved me to Woodham, I worked there twenty-two years. I totaled about thirty, that’s all I wanted to do. Because I told them, I said, “I’m not leaving because of something you did. I’m leaving because I want somebody to take my spot. And this is a spot for somebody else to take, it’s time for me to go.”

	W:	You retired from Woodham?



	M:	I did. Mmhm, yeah, I retired from Woodham. I had a good time there, because you know when they had all of the book things, I got everything and anything I wanted and needed in my department to do the job I thought I had to do. Had no trouble there.

	W:	And that was an integrated school?



	M:	Mmhm. Yeah. Only thing that happened was that I was trying to coach basketball and the head coach there took the supplement that I should have been getting





and gave it to this person over here. Now, how in the world can you be effective trying to teach two basketball teams on a different level—this level down here and then the one up there. You can’t be successful doing that because it’s gonna stress you out and you can’t think or something. But that’s what they did for me so when somebody came out from the newspaper and was asking about money and da-da-da—and I told them, “Don’t ask me about money.” Why? Because I didn’t want to express how I felt about how I was treated in that respect. So, the best thing we could do was keep quiet, you know? Because I felt it would have brought on more controversy if I had really expressed how I felt about that particular situation. So, I let it go. And finally, the principal wanted me to do some work—additional work—he was going to have me coach JV basketball and somebody else is doing varsity. But no, I said, tell you what, remove me from that program and I’ll just teach physical education. That’s what I did, that’s what I want. So that’s the way I tried to work with people because there’s no sense in me trying to hee and haw and go around over here to get to here. Just tell them what I want, yeah. One made it, one girl—you know children do all kinds of things, they rely on grumpy face, and they rely on the parent’s face. But he called me into the office and said something about drinking, I had to laugh because I don’t even drink. How you gon’ let somebody tell you that I’m plastered? You mean my breath smell that bad? [Laughter] Those are some funny things but it’s true! You gon’ let somebody else tell you something instead of coming to me, asking me first. Yeah. But I though—Highsalter was his name—that principal I was hired under the service of Raymond Nettle, M-A-D-





O-R, he was the principal at the time. But my experience with getting started was down at the school board office. You know, where they do the interval. And I’m trying to think who the superintendent was at that time—it hasn’t come to me right now—but he asked me something about having children. And I thought that was the worst thing in the world for him to ask. I don’t know what kind of answer I gave him—some kind of answer—but I was really upset about that. But I probably shouldn’t have been because that was part of what he had been doing to all people.

W:  I get your resilience and your determination toward your career. I get it, it seems as a woman you know, there were challenges in the workforce and I admire and salute your courage and determination to overcome.

M:   Thank you.



	W:	What are some of your best memories from teaching?, I know you’ve talked about the seeing some of your students and the success that they have gone onto. But as you look back, I’m sure, at quite an extensive career, what are some of those--?

	M:	Oh, Lordy! There’s so many, I don’t know where to start because you’re always gonna have somebody who will fight against you.

	W:	Indeed, and we can talk about that all day long.



	M:	Yeah. But let me see which one I want to start with. I had a dance group, and they had to compose their own dances, select their own music, and all that kind of stuff. And they did, and we would have a recital. And we were able to bring in the principal, the supervisor of physical education and health, brought them in the





teachers in the school, to see what they had done. Now that was very exciting to me.

	W:	What school was that?



	M:	It was at Woodham, I think it started at Washington. I was a cheerleading support at Washington, worked hard—what kind of car did I have? Anyway, I took a car hauling stuff, selling stuff for the cheerleaders. Taking things for the basketball team, all that kind of stuff that you do for nothing. Now, that’s one thing I did a lot of work at Washington for nothing. When I got to Woodham, I did get a few coins that—just the excitement of being with the kids to me was good. Because you didn’t have all bad kids, one or two. I was teaching gymnastics, which I learned from my fellow coworker a lot about—I did learn something at FAMU, but it wasn’t as extensive. And I said to them, “Now you go in the gym, and you sit down. Don’t get on any of that brass, sit down.” This little girl got up and she was on uneven bars and she fell and hurt herself. Oh, that was an experience! But thank God, she recovered, and she didn’t blame me, she blamed herself. So the parents understood everything went well. But things like that you worry about but when it turns out for the best then you thank God for that. Yeah, I had another one who was hardheaded, she decided to do the horse, she was gonna do whatever she was on the horse. But she fell, she didn’t get hurt either. So, it’s those kinds of things that keep you going on a job like that. You’re gonna find children who are hardheaded, you’re going to find some who will cooperate. But you have to know how to work with them. I had one experience with a young lady, and it gets to this colorful thing and she got angry with me about something





and she said, “I wish I could say what I wanted to say. I just wish,” I said, “Well say it!” Every time she said I wish—I told her to say it—finally, she said it and the children were all shocked. I didn’t holler at her, I didn’t yell at her, I didn’t do anything. So, when it boiled down, I said, “Baby, now I’m gonna have to send you to the dean’s office. I’m not sending you to the dean’s office because of what you said to me about what I asked you to say. I asked her to say it. And so, when I propose something then what? Another unruly child. But I said, “I’m sending you here because you disobeyed me in there.” And she understood, I had no more problems with that girl.

	W:	That is wise.



	M:	Yeah, you got to know how to deal with the situation at that time. Because no book in the world can tell you how to do that. No book. I don’t care who the writer is, if you have that kind of sympathy and love for this, whatever this is you’re dealing with, you won’t make it. I hear some teachers hollering and yelling—Now why you hollering? You just speak your normal tone. And sometimes I would be even lower than what I usually do, and they would have to listen. Sometimes I’d blow my whistle so loud. [Laughter] But those are the things that I do. But it was great. My whole teaching experience to me was great. I enjoyed it, really.

	W:	Yes, you did say early on that your training does not fully prepare you—



	M:	No, it doesn’t. You’ve got to—the human part has got to come out of you. The loving, human part must come out. And having been exposed to that type of action early on in years, I wasn’t hard for me to do it. One girl broke my glasses, and the kids were trying to tell me, “She broke your glasses.” I didn’t say anything





to her, I just picked up my glasses and put them in the garbage can and said, “God took care of that, he’ll get me another pair.” I didn’t bother her buying at all, didn’t bother her parents about it. Because I know children do things in spurts when they’re angry they do a lot of crazy things. So why would I go fuss at her? Unh-uh. I didn’t do it. So, I enjoyed it, I really did.

	W:	Sounds like it. You know on the flip-side, you mentioned some of the challenges, as much as there are the good days there are the not-so-good days. Can you speak to some of your more challenging moments in your career? You alluded to how you overcome, certainly your personality, but could you expand on some of the more challenging experiences that you had and what transpired and how you overcame?

	M:	Well, let’s see. Again, everything was a challenge and it wasn’t a challenge that I could be upset about. You know, it’s just my working. I had a supervisor at the school, and she would say, “I love you; I love you. Almost every day: “I love you.” And I told my children if she says “I love you” one more time to me I’m going to have to tell her something. But that was just her way of trying to get along and make me thing—because I don’t know what she was thinking I was thinking, I wasn’t thinking anything negative. I had no reason to think anything negative because they’re always treated me—my coworkers—there were about four of us in one office, and we did what we wanted to do. When how and what in our classes. So that was just one of those things. Now the only thing that challenged me—let me see, I’m trying to think of what really—I can’t seem to think of anything that really bugged me at Woodham nor Washington. I just can’t. I had





classes I wanted to teach—archery—and my principal I wanted to mention to him that I wanted to teach our kids archery because they didn’t know a thing about it. He created all kinds of problems before me. Before he could hear what I was gonna do it. Finally, he let me do it. At that time, across the street from the school, there had been a graveyard, and so I would tell the children about that. I took them over back out there where the graveyard used to be, set up my archery stuff, gave them instructions and that’s where we had archery. Those kinds of things were simple to me.

	W:	Mrs. McIntosh, is there anything you did not do? I mean, you did gymnastics, you did dance, you did archery, basketball, I hear volleyball—

	M:	Well one thing I really wanted to do—tennis. W:	Ah. Yes, you did.

	M:	I really wanted to do that. I had no interest in golf. What’s his name—Mr.



Harboro—Henry Harboro was one of our physical education teachers at that time. And he said, “I’ll help you,” but we had no facilities. So he would put down in front of what we call the new gym over there on this other street, Strong Street, in the middle of the street, and we’d hit like that. But that was no fun! So, when I got to FAMU I was too old then, running all behind that ball. So, I just, I like tennis. So that was the one thing that I didn’t get the opportunity to—track-and- field, I did all of that, you know. I just kept busy. And maintained my grades. I tell these children, “Busy people are people that will learn and do” and that’s, even in the church. You gotta church that’s doing nothing, folks don’t do anything. And some people say, “Well she didn’t pay her dues.” It’s got nothing to do with that.





You don’t have a thing to do with this person because they didn’t pay whatever was asked of them, they’re doing the best they can. You take care of you, and everything will be alright. But we started a girls football team. [Laughter]

	W:	Oh, man. You did it all. That’s a first. Say that again.



	M:	It didn’t last long because we couldn’t get out the equipment and all that stuff. W:	But you tried.

	M:	Yeah, we tried. We get out there, in fact, with Mr. Williams and Marie Williams and he’d show us do this do that and I didn’t even know what was his number. That was fun, that was very fun. And then the community, even with my funeral home man. All of our bodies basically go to a funeral home, and so he helped my mother out of a situation one time. So, I’ll never forget it, but he was helpful and encouraging me. And we had an old pastor, Reverand Wranglum was one of them. Now, these people encouraged me to keep moving forward. It helped a lot. And then when the children came along, I said, “I’ve got to do something.” That just happened then I married a young man, a good person, but not family- oriented, you understand? So, I had to step in there, I told him I said, “You go to FAMU now, and you get this and when you finish, I’ll go to FAMU.” Not to be, because he took five years and I said “That’s it, that’s it, I’m going now.” I worked at Baptist Hospital, I worked at Jerry’s Restaurant over in East Pensacola Heights. I saved my money, like I said, I knew what I had to do. And I went to FAMU, sure did. Had he been oriented—he didn’t help me even with school.

Because when we married mother said, “Are you gonna send her to school?” He said, “Yes.” But he changed his mind somewhere along the line there. But these





are the kinds of challenges—that one, that really was a challenge. Because at that time I had three children.

	W:	But you had your mother and your grandmother to assist you.



	M:	Me and my mama. Because she took care of my children, and she was that I had food, because, like I said I was living at home. And she saw that I had food. And thank god she was not forty miles from me. I didn’t have a car when I first went down there so I had to walk everywhere unless some of my friends came and got me. But I said “I can walk,”--I can’t walk now, but I can walk.

	W:	Forty miles?



	M:	No, at FAMU. I didn’t have a car. See, FAMU is hilly. But then I had some good teachers, concerned teachers at FAMU. But I got ready to do my internship, I had made an application to several places. And I got to look at my situation and I said, “I can’t do that! I can’t go to Jacksonville; I don’t have the money to go!” So I told one of my teachers, he said, “Wait, I’m gonna talk to my wife,” who was a lady in the same area at the FAMU high school. He said, “You’re gonna have to go to Jacksonville,” said, “I’ll see that you be here at FAMU, right on campus.” He did that. That saved me, it sure did.

	W:	You know, being a teacher and having an impact on so many kids’ lives, talk about what teachers—you mentioned that professor at FAMU—what are some of the teachers you recall having the greatest impact on your life?

	M:	The greatest--? W:	Impact, yes.





	M:	First of all, in high school there was Ms. Irma Dickson—let me get it right because there were two Dicksons—Irma Dickson. She was what we called a homeroom teacher. And here again, I told her I said, “Mrs. Dickson, I can’t march with the class.” She said, “Why?” I said, “Because I can’t afford the gown.” She said, “You will march,” and I marched. Yeah. And since I didn’t have a boyfriend, because I was too busy—you know what I mean—and so I was told, I said, “Well, I don’t have anybody that’s coming to prom.” So, she said, “Well I have somebody, nice young man, he probably needs someone, you can go together.” This is what she did. And we had a home economics teacher named Mrs.

Good— and I decided I wanted to work during the summer. And I expressed that to her. She said, “Well, I’ll get you a job, working with my husband in the ministry.” Yeah, I can’t remember her first name but Mrs. Good, called her that so that’s all I can remember. Then of course I mentioned TD Williams, she told me, “Frankie, you’ve got to go to college.” Rumor got out that she sent me to college by some of my other folk. I told them I said, “Now you go down to the school board and you tell them to show you where I borrowed the money to go to college.” Mrs. TD, she did not send me to college, she encouraged me to go. I went to Columbia University in New York, one lady had the nerve to ask me, “Well why’d you go there?” I said, “Because I wanted to go.” I’d never been to New York, and I wanted to go, and this was a chance for me to go to New York and get schooling while I was there. So I did that. But her impact was lower, you can understand, but it was a challenge. That was a challenge I felt right there to me at this time, I know it was a challenge. And—I’m trying to think—Mrs. C.F.





Dickson, tall, steady, she didn’t have that much to say to me, but her actions spoke louder than her words, and I remember that.

	W:	How so? What were some of her actions?



	M:	Just the way she carried herself impressed me. I wanted to be strong. My mama was a strong lady, my daddy was strong in his doings, he could stand and tell you this, stand and tell you that, you know? But he didn’t have as much influence on me because they were separated early. But anyway, that lady impressed me a lot. I wanted to be kind of like her. I’m trying to think who else might have— Now, even before I got back to Pensacola there was a lady in the [inaudible] named Mrs. Blow, she was a woman who impressed me too. How she carried herself and how she did things and how she seemed to have cared about me, that was very important. Because I was small then, but I can remember Mrs.

Blow. Now, another lady that was very impressive, I liked her spirit, that was my mother-in-law, Mary McIntosh. She was the sweetest thing, “Frankie, you need to do so and so and so for yourself.” I couldn’t see it, but she saw it. Certainly when I had my first baby, I knew nothing about having children. And I felt this pain in my back, she said, “It’s time to go.” I said, “Go where?” “Go to the hospital.” So right after I got there, my oldest child was born. She knew that much, yeah. But she was always loving, cool-headed, and concerned about—you know, thinking about some things. Now there were some mistakes, naturally, but that’s what I got from her. And my daddy was impressive too. He was a church man, but he was kind of bossy if you got around him too much, he’d tell you what to do. But most of what he was saying would be true, you know? But some people don’t like





that. Some people, if you’re truthful, they don’t like that. If you tell the truth, Lord you talk that much and hee-haw around! But he was talking about he taught me how to whistle, he was a great old man. And so I’d meet him by the railroad track when I was in Mount Pleasant with grandmother and he’d show me how to whistle and do this right here—can’t do it right now. Yeah, but there were others, I’m sure, Mrs. Nolan, that I’d mention, was a stern lady, she was churchy, and she liked to go to different meetings and learn different things. And so do I, you can’t learn a lot of stuff at home, you got to go and mix and mingle with people to learn what the current thing is all about. So, I guess she helped me some too.

That’s all I can think of right now.



	W:	A lot of influential women.



	M:	Oh yeah. My family was like that, because I can recall my grandmother working for an old lady down where we lived, and this lady would give her meats, like if she killed hogs and stuff like that. She’d give her meats to bring home. It was to share, she would share with her sisters, she would share with her brothers. Then I can recall when, hearing them talk, that if her brothers did anything, they took care of their sisters. The two sisters live in one house together, but her brother, their brothers, they had about five brothers, they took care of those girls. They saw that they didn’t be in bad need for stuff. And that was just so beautiful because a lot of men don’t care nothing about your sister, brother, whatever. But they did that, I was told. Now, I didn’t see it all, some of it I saw, with Uncle Harry I could see that, with Uncle Fred I could see that. But the others—Joe—I couldn’t see the brothers. But it was just a loving family. I didn’t hear them argue,





fuss or nothing between them. They would have controversy, of course, Emma I told—and grandmother said, [inaudible], I told you so, whatever grandmother said, that was the last straw. Because they knew she didn’t play. She didn’t falsify anything. She didn’t play with anything. You know, when she’s talking, very firm, stern, everything. But she was good-natured, quiet. Yes, Lord that’s something that when you grow up in the country you learn to appreciate a lot of stuff. Now I didn’t necessarily grow up in the country because, like I said, mother was gregarious and so she would move from place to place trying to seek out whatever she needed. But the times that I was, I learned a lot, sure did. How to treat people, how to respect people. How to help, how to do.

	W:	What about when you look at when you retired, what was it like after retirement? M:	After retiring?

	W:	Yes.



	M:	It’s been great. Fantastic in every kind of respect you can think of. Yeah, I had more money in my pocket than when I was working. My children are all grown, they take care of me, like that one right there, she takes care of me, drives me wherever I need to go. I can still drive now, but she does it. The other, one—her mama she’d go to the doctor and blah-blah-blah. She sees a doctor, so no trouble there, I don’t have to take care of them no more. Because her mother and father, they have to take care of the children. They have children, I don’t have to take care of the children. I didn’t babysit unless I wanted to, so it’s just been a pleasant experience going through retirement. I think I’ve been retired twenty or twenty-two years now. At I think [19]91, what is this, 2000--?





W:   [20]19, yeah.



	M:	So, it was just, I don’t know, great, fantastic, superior, whatever word you want to use that’s higher than the other, that’s what it’s been.

	W:	Yes, I can tell from the smile on your face. [Laughter] You have enjoyed your time.

	M:	Yeah, I do a lot of travelling. I love to travel, when I was working, I’d travel with NEA, National Teachers Association, and then the state teachers association. So, you know you’d have to go through a vote to get to go to these places. So I started out with Florida, put my name on paper, this time I went, this time I went, every time I put my name on paper. One time, did I miss going to something on the national level, and that was because of one person that got me fouled up. But all the time, my name was on the list for fifty to sixty years or more, that teachers went out and voted for me and I was able to travel. My expenses were taken care of, you know, all of that. So, I just lived a life of travelling. My daughter is a CEO, well she first was the CEO of a credit union in Atlanta, and she travelled. So, her job sends her to places like—well but the last time we went on a tour was to Dubai.

	W:	I was about to ask, can you name some of the places you have travelled? M:	I went to Dubai last time. I’ve been to Brazil, I’ve been to Africa, I’ve been to

China, I’ve been to Alaska. It’s funny—what else? I can’t think now but those are some of the places. Now, Dubai was very interesting. Yeah, had the dunes, sand dunes.

W:   Of all the places you’ve travelled, is that the one that stands out to you?





	M:	It is one of the ones. Now, African affected me, I felt sad in Africa because of the conditions of the people there.

	W:	What country did you go to?



	M:	South Africa. Where Mandela’s home and all that is. That’s where I went. But it was interesting, yeah. And I like Brazil, not that people actually went, but I like Brazil. It was hot. I told my daughter and son-in-law, “Y’all go on out to the beach, I’m gonna stay in this hotel.” [Laughter] Yes sir, but I’ve been so many places.

And it’s partly because of her—I paid my way, don’t get me wrong, but that was—Oh, I’ve been to Paris. Yeah, went to Paris.

	W:	You got any room left on that passport? [Laughter]



	M:	I’ve had to exchange it, now it’s not due until [20]23, I think. That’s when I should renew it. But I keep my passport, I don’t care what. And my driving license, I try to keep them up. But I love to travel, because you know, you look at the good things God has made and God has allowed man to make and to do and of course the good thing that he’s already done. I went to petrified forests, I studied that at school, but I never thought I’d be able to see a petrified forest. I had a different concept of what the petrified forest was. It’s just rock trees, as I saw it. That turned to stone, you know. And that other place near there, what is that thing? It’s a national park too. But anyway, when I saw Salt Lake City, that lake, as far as you can see, full of salt. I enjoyed it, mama took—my mother was with me at that time—she took a bottle and put some of the salt in it. It stayed at the house until it went away. But those were exciting trips, her and myself. We would carry one of my grandchildren to California to go to school because he gotten a





baseball scholarship there. So, there we were going there, and we were able to stop along the way, so that was good.

	W:	Are there any places on your bucket list still you would like to go visit that you haven’t gone visit yet?

	M:	Well, not any places I can think of right now.



	W:	Where is next? Where is the next trip you’re going to?



	M:	I don’t know but my daughter said we’re going somewhere next year. I forgot where she said though. Where did she—not Finland—somewhere, I don’t know. My memory, I’m just excited to go and do anything. Because I just got off a cruise, they’d say, “Where’d you go?” and I’d say, “I don’t know!” [Laughter]

	W:	But you had fun?



	M:	I had fun, yes Lord. Yeah, they take care of me.



	W:	You know, you talked about your grandson, do you want to talk about your grandkids?

	M:	Oh Lord. I got nine grandchildren. Got nine great-grans. Few boys, fewer boys than girls. They’re all fantastic, I call most of them the everyday just to see how they were doing. Because if you don’t teach these children, they don’t know to do this. And so I call them when I think they’re not even thinking about me. And I told my smaller ones—I got some smaller children, like nine, ten, five, like that—I said, “Now look, when you come in this house, you’re supposed to hug grandma’s neck.” They do it, they do it. Even the mothers, now. Some of them, one mother I thought was angry at me, she comes in she hugs my neck every time, but I had to teach her this. Because I love you no matter what I do I’m





gonna feel good. And she’d make you a stronger person. So, they do that. Now the grand boys are not as easy to control, but they still hug me. I got one down in Tampa, he hugged me, his wife hugged me, his two children hugged me. When they see me. That shows that we’re loving each other because we’re apart most of the time, and so that’s the way we show our love for each other. And yet, now they do—Oh Lord, that oldest grandson of mine. He does so many things. When he comes to my house, I said, “Don’t do that! I can fix a toilet—well not fix it but I can mount a toilet stool—a toilet pump—” You know what I’m talking about? But he’s wonderful. And then the second oldest one, he’s having difficulty with his youngest. The third one, he’s trying to make his way, Lord, and not quite there yet. But they’re all nice, they’re all nice to me. And respectful. Yes, I haven’t one that I fell out with at all. The girls are about the same, none of them. But I had to teach them a whole other thing, you just don’t roll them eyes and don’t say good morning. To me and to whoever’s in there, you need to say good morning. Greet people, and you learn to love by doing so.

	W:	Is there any other, you know, from your wisdom and your experience as a woman, as a teacher, as a mother, grandmother—

	M:	Great-grandmother.



	W:	Great-grandmother. What wisdom would you share today? When you look at the current state of affairs, of families, of communities, of classrooms, of kids. You know, you have touched on some of your core influences you have touched on but what would you advise?





	M:	I told you about my pet peeve, I mentioned it. One of my pet peeves was the fact that the use of “Can I?” “May I?” Can I? May I? I’ve always explained to my students that, and my children, that when you say, “Can I?” “I don’t know, only you know that. Because you’re asking me the question ‘Can you do this?’ and you the one that knows whether you have the ability to do it. May I ask for my permission to allow you to do this.” So those two were my pet peeves. But getting to your question—I forgot what it was, now what was that question?

	W:	Drawing from your experience, what wisdom would you share with kids, with families, teachers—

	M:	That right there is a constant thing that I share with everybody everywhere I go. Even preachers, who have these—young people. But I’m trying to think wisdom like—Always do the best you can. Wherever you are and you go. And if you’re an adult, you don’t have to lie. Tell the truth and follow the truth that you’re telling.

Okay? I had a preacher—I would like to make a motion. Once you get the floor, that’s all you do. Why you asking for a motion? I’ve already given you permission to do that. So, know what you’re doing before you do it, especially before you speak. That is important. And I can’t think of anything else—

	W:	Well, think about as a teacher, what would you tell teachers? M:	Teachers?

	W:	Yeah, a young teacher coming up, what would you share?



	M:	Well one thing, dress like a teacher, that’s the first thing I’d say. Dress like a teacher. Not like a student. But be firm with your decisions with children because they can read you like a book. Be firm and be consistent. Here is an example,





children are now having children. They’ll say, “Well you can’t have that.” The child keeps saying something, and then they give it to them. You told a lie then, and the child knows you told a lie! If you said, “You can’t have that” mean it.

Mean what you say to your child, to anybody, really. Because if you’re an adult, you don’t have to do that. As a teacher, you’ve got to be firm with children, they can’t catch you in a lie, and they cannot start doubting you as to what you can do. You got to always work so that they fear that, “Hey this lady or this man knows something about this—” whatever they’re doing. And then show love.

Show love to whomever. Bad, sad, you know? Happy. You’ve got to show love. Because you can’t make it into Heaven like that, by not showing love. Can’t do it. You got forgive. And sometimes teachers don’t want to forgive. They don’t want to forgive each other the way they act, you know, I can’t really mind, but the way some of them act that I’ve seen. We used to have sessions at Woodham back in [inaudible] and we were able to express ourselves about how we felt about different situations. And so one lady told us, said, “You know, y’all look at us and don’t even see us.” I ain’t never thought of anyone like that. I look at you and don’t see you? What color are you that I can’t see you? So that’s about it I think. Something wise, do right all the time.

	W:	Well, Mrs. McIntosh, I mean, you have shared quite a story. I thank you. M:	You’re welcome.

	W:	In closing, I will ask, are there any final words that you would like to archive?



	M:	No, I think I better close out here because my daughter’s ready to go home. But it’s just been a pleasure to talk with you. You know, you brought up some things





that I don’t even think about hardly now. I’m eighty-five years old. And so I’ve forgotten but when I go home I’ll think about them. My life has been great. I don’t have anything to feel sorry about. I love life and I love being happy.

	W:	And I think I will close by saying we love you. M:	Thank you.

	W:	Thank you.



	M:	You’re welcome.





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Abby Lovett



	Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 16, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 22, 2021