AAHP 144; Welch; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 144 Thelma Welch

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Jessica Lancia on October 23, 2010

1 hour, 40 minutes | 53 pages



Abstract: Thelma Welch first lived in Richland, Georgia, but moved to Gainesville, Florida when she was six years old, where she stayed with Ms. Fannie Glover, co- owner of the Glover and Gill building on 5th Avenue. Mrs. Welch attended Lincoln High School, and she relates her experiences there, including graduating in 1934 as valedictorian. She also describes a lifelong love of music. After graduation, she attended Bethune-Cookman College, and she describes her firsthand memories of Mary McLeod Bethune. However, for financial reasons she transferred to Florida A&M University (FAMU), which she graduated from. She was hired as a teacher by Principal

A.L. Mebane at the eponymous high school in Alachua, and in the summers she attended different universities until she obtained a masters in Music Education from Ohio State University. Her graduate education was funded by the state of Florida so that they could retain the segregation of the University of Florida and other state universities. She describes her teaching career at Mebane, including orchestrating student musical performances like operettas. She also taught when schools were integrated, and describes the process in detail.





[Keywords: African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Stewart County, Georgia; Mebane High School; Integration; Education]

































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 144

Interviewee: Thelma Welch Interviewer: Jessica Lancia Date: October 23, 2010



	L:	This is Jessica Lancia. I am interviewing Thelma Welch. We are at Thelma Welch’s house in Alachua, Florida. It is October 23rd, 2010. So, thank you for agreeing to be interviewed, and would you mind stating for the record—how do you spell your last name, and when was your date of birth?

	W:	My last name’s spelled W-E-L-C-H. My date of birth is five, six, eighteen. L:	Wonderful. So what is your connection to Mebane High School?

	W:	Well, to me, Mebane High School is—really means a lot to me, because I’ve been with it ever since I started work many years ago. And I always—I have testified in my church, and talking, and tell me that Mebane High School formerly was Alachua County Training School. And that is where I started my teaching career, at Alachua County Training School. When I went there, I was a major in Home and Education, I had graduated from Florida A&M College then, before it became Florida A&M University. And I was in Education, and I went there as a second grade teacher. I didn’t—principal at that time was A. L. Mebane, and he really wanted a music teacher who could play, knew music, and he had been told that I was from Gainesville, I was in Gainesville, and that I knew music, because the state wasn’t paying for any music teachers or nothing like that. Well he wanted someone to play for different programs that they would have. And so he wanted to get me, and he asked for my mother about my coming to Alachua as a teacher, and I would be teaching second grade. That way I arrived, and started my career. That was in the 1930s. I know that is really—sound real funny, long time ago, near ‘bout a hundred years! [Laughter]





	L:	Oh don’t! [Laughter]



	W:	And so, I assumed teaching that Monday morning, with the second grade class. And I do—I always did like children, liked to play with them. And I had this this lovely little class I had, and I did. So they found that I played, because I had taken music from music teachers, and one thing the teachers had told me that I had took from during that time: never play unless I have the music in front of me. So then, that’s when I learned to read music real well. So, well, we had assemblies then with the children in the auditorium at least two times a week. So I was asked to play some songs for the assembly, and from there, they found out that I played—well, to their satisfaction, and that the ladies started calling on me to play for anything they wanted to have some music with. And that’s where I really how I got my bestest experience in playing, was during that time. Because then all the teachers were, “We have somebody that can play for our plays. We have somebody who will play for this, that, and the other.” Because—and of course, I did like to play. And so, when the churches in the community found out that I played, they called on me a lot. On Sundays, I’d play for them when I didn’t go home for the weekend. And I loved it. And I would just play. Every time somebody asked me, I was playing. So they had—at that time in the school, they had all kind of entertainments. A fashion show; the Home Economics department each year would have kids to make dresses, and showed them, and called it a fashion show. It was one of the things that the community looked forward to coming to each year, to see the fashion show, what children had learned in the Home Economics class. So, I played for that, and of course they paraded around





and showed their—and you would have sometimes some of those in between, and during the time of the program. And then, they would have—well, they had a basketball team. And different schools came and played. And that time, we didn’t have any—. [brief interruption at 5:15] And I would play for them to have a little dance after they would get the half, or after the games were over, because I played the jazz was really all of it; I played whatever they wanted—if they give me the music, had the music in front of me, I would play anything they asked me to. They could play—and during that time, also, they had more of the written music in the music store. More so than they have now, because, you know, they have everything else now. When you have that, you have the music. Anyway, with every piece. If I tell them I wanted to learn to play—now I’m trying to name some of these songs now that we played then.

[Man enters]



	W:	You’re back now.



	U1:	So how are you this morning? L:	All right.

	U1:	You live in Gainesville, and going to school? Or you from out this way originally? L:	I do. I live in Gainesville now. I’m not from here originally at all, but—

	U1:	You’re from where?



	L:	Well, I grew up in Ethiopia.



	U1:	In Ethiopia! Nothing wrong with that, no! L:	It’s far away! [Laughter]

	W:	You can’t take my—our time, now. [Laughter]





	U1:	Okay. All right, well it was nice meeting you. L:	Nice to meet you.

	U1:	And where are you now as far as getting your degree?



	W:	Well, I’m at Florida, and this is my second year in the PhD program in history. U1:	Oh, that’s nice! Oh, you’ve already got your Master’s!

	L:	I do.



	U1:	Join the club! You’re with a Master’s person, here! L:	All right! Oh, we’ll talk about it! Nice to meet you. U1:	Nice meeting you too.

	W:	Did I ever tell you his name? Did I ever introduce you? His name is Rudolph. L:	Rudolph. Okay, next time I see him.

	W:	I was gonna come do that later.



	L:	So what instrument did you play? Was it the piano? W:	I played the piano. The violin. I played the violin, too. L:	Where did you learn to play the instruments?

	W:	Now, the first one—I guess I have to tell you my background, right? I was born in Georgia. I had relatives in Florida. And a relative of mine came through Georgia going to Tuskegee one summer, and asked my mother—I was trying to play at these pedal organs, and I did like the music from the time I knew what music was. And my cousin asked my mother, said, “Let me have her. I don’t have any children. Now, I wish I did.” She said, “Let me take her. She seem to be talented, and she loves it, and she’s smart, and I’ll send her to school and help you with





her.” So, about—well, I was very poor, and my mother had—my father had gotten killed, and they were sharecroppers. Have you heard of sharecroppers?

	L:	Yes.



	W:	So she said, “Okay, I’ll think about it.” And so, she had a sister living down here in Florida, and she came to visit my mother—my real mother—Christmastime, and she said, “I’ll send Thelma back by her to you when she come to visit me at Christmastime.” So that was—. Well, they got me ready, sent me down here to Florida; that’s how I got to Florida. I was only six years old then.

	L:	So, you were six years old, and you were living where in Georgia? W:	I was living in a place called Richland, Georgia.

	L:	Richland, Georgia. And your father had been killed? W:	He got killed by a tree.

	L:	By a tree.



	W:	He carried—or, cut down trees and carried to people in town who needed trees— needed for fire, firewood. And this would take his life Monday morning. He and two of my brothers went to cut down some trees. And I was outdoors, I remember it so well—you know some things like that, they’ll stay on you and you’ll—I know I’ll never forget. I can just see today; it was a Monday morning, and I was out there just playing with my dogs, and I heard somebody, “Oooohh, oooohhh,” moaning, like? And I stopped and listened, and when I looked I saw my two brothers running, and they were crying. And when they got home, they said, “Momma, Poppa got killed!” And so, we all heard the news like that. And we went to—well, what happened was, he did cut down a tree. And he had told





my brothers, “Y’all move,” because it was rope going this way. It was this way. And he said, “Y’all get crushed, I know how this thing going fall. Y’all move and get out the way.” And what happened, the tree that he cut down was all right. But there were some vines growing—it was another tree beside it, and that he didn’t notice. And when the tree fell, it pulled the other tree down, and he, my father, was standing right in the path of that tree. And it ran across his shoulder and broke his neck. My brothers didn’t hear him call to come on. And they went, “Well, Poppa hasn’t said anything; he usually tell us, ‘Yeah, all right! Let’s come on. Let’s busy.” And he said they didn’t, so they left and went to see what happened. When they got where he was, he was on his knees with a tree across his shoulder, and he was dead. And that’s what had happened. So, that’s why they was crying, and it was happened, that’s what had happened. So we all, my mother and all, with they—I didn’t go where they was. And then, they come back to get in touch with the undertaker. See, they didn’t have telephones. We didn’t have telephones or nothing like that then. And that undertaker lived far away, and had to get someone to go to his home and tell him to come and pick the body up. And so, that was a while. So then, I was with my mother. I am the ninth child in the family, the baby.

	L:	The ninth.



	W:	Ninth, uh-huh. And to get in touch with the those who had—some of my sisters were married at that time—to get in touch, you know, with the family and everything, and tell them. So, we got that there over and covered and everything. I can remember that day just like it happened yesterday. And so that’s how—so,





when my cousins came by there, my father been dead then about, well, two years, because I must’ve been about four when he got killed. And he was—see, that was my cousin, the woman that came to Georgia; we were all in that family. And my mother was her aunt. And so, she thought she would be helping her, and she’d take me. Because my mother had to take care of other children by herself, and I wasn’t big enough, doing the washing and ironing and things like that to get along. She wanted to help her. So [inaudible 12:43], she got me and brought me to Florida.

	L:	And what happened to the farm?



	W:	Well, they were sharecropper, and of course the man came and took everything, it was in the fall of the year, and they were gathering corn and stuff like that. He just took everything from my mother and left her, and didn’t leave anything but a bushel of corn. So, she had to find somewhere to take us. And that’s why I tell my husband now, I said “Now, I like to help poor children.” I said, “Because I’ve been poor. I know what it is.” And I can understand them, the way they do things or say things, because I know how it is. So, they—what was I talking about? [Laughter]

	L:	When you father died, your mother had to provide for—



	W:	She had friends up in town, we was out in the country in Richland. And that was the lady that she knew would go up North during this wintertime to stay with some of her people, her children—one, one of them. And she wanted someone to stay in her house while she was gone. And so, knowing the condition of my mother—they were friendly, they knew each other—she asked her to take care,





stay there in her house while she was gone. She’d be gone for a full five months. And that’s how we got into Richland. This lady was very nice. She didn’t charge anything to stay there to look out for her property and everything, and there were two sisters—they were not married; two brothers, that was four in it; and myself, five; and another four married out, uh-huh. We were able to—that’s how we got into Richland. Across the street—well, kind of slanting like that—was a school which was real nice. A good, gorgeous school. So that’s how I got into Richland. And well, she came, she sent for them for Christmas, and that’s how I got to Florida. And that’s really where my life really began, when I begin to know things. Now, I was a little girl before I left—about five or six; I’d say it’s six. If it was five, I would be—. And I had to pick cotton, because that was the major crop, cotton- picking, especially for the Blacks.

	L:	When you were five? W:	Yes.

	L:	Oh my God.



	W:	I picked cotton to get enough money for my momma to buy me some cloth to make me some dresses to go to Florida.

	L:	Where were you in Florida? W:	Gainesville.

	L:	Gainesville?



	W:	Well, that’s where she was living.



	L:	So your mother’s sister was in Gainesville? Is that who you moved to Gainesville with?





	W:	That was my—



	L:	Your mother’s cousin?



	W:	No that was my mother’s niece, because my mother was her aunt. L:	Okay. So your mother’s niece came to—

	W:	Richland.



	L:	To Georgia, to Richland, picked you up, and brought you down to Gainesville.



	W:	Now, she didn’t come, she didn’t pick me up. She came there, she saw me, and she wanted me to [inaudible 16:13], but my mother had a sister—that’s where you get the sister from—that came to visit her during the Christmas holidays. And when she was leaving, she would bring me back to Gainesville.

	L:	How did you feel about leaving your mother?



	W:	Well I mean, during that time, I didn’t think there was anything to it, because they said that she was letting me come back to my mother every summer. And I thought that was going to be fine. It didn’t always—didn’t work out like it was supposed to work out. And I went back. She let me go back the first summer, I went back. But my father visited my mother in a dream, and he told her he didn’t want his children separated. And it worried her. So then, she wanted me to come back and stay. Well—see, my, well they called her Fanny then, you know who I’m talking about; the one who took me. Fanny was living well, had electric light— something I had never seen in my life! [Laughter] Then when they got down here, I had to cut the light on, I said, “What is this? [Laughter] Well, I won’t dwell too much on that, because you want to hear about the school!

	L:	Well, this is so fascinating. I want to hear about this, too! [Laughter]





	W:	So I said, “My mother, let me go back! I ain’t got—I want to go back.” She say, “You don’t want to stay?” I said, “Nah, I don’t want to stay with you, but I want to go back to Florida, and I’ll be coming back, backward and forth.” And I laughed but when I got up there back and forth, I didn’t know that the way it was going to be. And so anyway, I came on back, and she enrolled me in school, and I was going to school. And she could play, and she was teaching me what she knew about the piano. Oh, and I thought I was getting to be a big girl! I wanted to learn to play the piano the right way, because I just played by ear. And anyway—oh yeah, before I left to go to Florida, there was a teacher—I’ll never forget her name: Ms. Morton—that sorted our little music, because I’d go stand by her when she played and everything. I liked music. And she asked my mother if she would give me music lessons. My mother told her she just wasn’t able to pay for it. She say, “You won’t have to pay me. If you could just—I’m by myself—if you would just wash my clothes for me. That’ll be all I ask. If you just do that, so I can teach her.” So I had started learning to play before I came to Florida, on that old organ we had, pedal organ. I thought I was doing! So then, when I do— [Laughter] Oh, the happiest child; I mean, I just didn’t know the better! This was something so nice. So I had started learning to play, and of course, Fanny then took me; she could play. And she taught me what she knew.

	L:	Do you know where she had learned to play?



W:  No, I don’t know who taught her. I never—come to think about it, I don’t believe I ever heard her talk about who taught her. You know, during that time, there were people who could play, they would teach you how to play, and you just ask for





lessons. Because I imagine—because there were people in Gainesville that played. And maybe some of those taught her; I never did question her about that, I never heard her talk about it. But she taught me. But when we got to the place that she thought she didn’t know, she was honest about it; then she gave me to a regular music teacher, lady who really played. She a teacher too, where she had had music from many musicians. And so, she gave me to her, because she said, “I’ve gone as far as I can go. I’m not going teach you wrong. I only could give you somebody who really can play, and really knows music.” And then, that’s what she had did. And I did that over with her until I went to college.

	L:	So, this was in Gainesville. W:	Yeah, she in Gainesville.

	L:	So, what did Fanny do that she had electricity? And did she have a piano in her house?

	W:	Yes, she had a piano.



	L:	So, she must have been better off.



	W:	Well she had a—she was in business. She had a store, a grocery store. L:	In Gainesville?

	W:	Yes.



	L:	Do you remember what it was called? W:	Glover and Gill.

	L:	Loving Gear? That’s wonderful.



	W:	Because she and her sister, Glover and Gill on 5th Avenue now. Now, that was Seminary Street then. And so it—in the history that they have, they have in there





if you ever see a history where they’ve written about Seminary Street and that part of Gainesville, they have the store. I think they had that—I know the last article I saw they had the picture of it. The building is still standing. It was a two- story building.

	L:	Did you used to help out in there?



	W:	Yes, I did. Every week on Wednesdays, we—I say we because her sister had two boys—we would weigh out groceries like grits, and rice, and sugar, in fifteen, twenty-five bags. You know, the way they sell. And that’d be our duty to do every week. And you know, people and [inaudible 22:07].

	L:	So, what school did you go to in Gainesville? W:	Lincoln High School.

	L:	Lincoln High School!



	W:	Lincoln High School building. Pre-Lincoln to what there is now. L:	The first Lincoln.

	W:	Yeah, first Lincoln.



	L:	What year did you start at Lincoln? When you were six, first grade? W:	Yes.

	L:	Mm. So, you went to Lincoln from first grade all the way— W:	All the way through, graduated in twelfth grade there.

	L:	And how was that experience?



	W:	Oh, it was very good, because I met with lot of other kids and other people, and I enjoyed that very much. Because Lincoln was a two-story building. I mean, it really had a large—what you call it—children going there. Grade school. They





had kindergarten there in later years. We didn’t have kindergarten. From first through the twelfth grade. And I think it was 1934 that I graduated from high school, I was the valedictorian of the class. And I didn’t miss a day from going to school.

	L:	What did you want to be when you grew up?



	W:	Oh, I had so many things I wanted to be. One year I went to school, I was going to be an undertaker.

	L:	An undertaker?



	W:	I liked to look at the dead people, and I liked it there. And we would talk about it, the group of kids that we would be together, of course, “What you want to be?” So one year, I was going be an undertaker! [Laughter] Another year, I was going to be a hairdresser. I wanted to be a hairdresser. Kids coming to school, trying to straighten their hair; they looked good. And I talked to those who—you know, tried to find out who taught them how to do the hair; but they looked good. I looked at it, and I said, “You know, I believe I would like to do that. I would like to do”—I just changed all around. You know, I didn’t come to really want to be a music person until I got to college. And ooh, I did love singing! But I didn’t have a singing voice. I tried, but I found out I just—I wasn’t made to sing. [Laughter] But after I got there—and I did sing in the chorus, because I liked music. I did sing in the chorus. But what I meant by that was, I wasn’t a soloist person. People with a good voice, but they don’t do solos, or they can’t do solos. Now, I never could do any solos. I tried. Then I made up my mind: I learnt me so well, if I could just get somebody who can sing, and I play for them, I’d be all right. That’s what I





decided I’d do. [Laughter] And then, so when I went to college, I sang in the chorus. And I learned to read music, and that’s the way I found out I could be of some help with the music, because I can read music, and I know how to follow it. So, I was an alto. I had a friend, ooh, she was natural-born alto; she could just take a song, you would hear her sing, and she could add that alto just as beautifully as she could. And I used to stand by her. When I was in college, I would stand by her, and I would sing just what she sang. And I learned then how to read the music. And that’s how I did good, I did some of my singing, you know, harmonizing. That’s when I went to college. I’ll never forget: during my freshman year in college, the lady needed an alto. She had a four-year—four-voice—girls’ quartet. And she was trying to find a good alto, and she tried—of course, because I was singing in the alto section—she tried. She had me to come up and try out for a part. And I did. I’d learned to read music then. And I did it. So, I was in the girls’ quartet. And my mother then, with Fanny, she came down to visit—I was at Bethune-Cookman—ever heard of Bethune-Cookman College? It’s Bethune-Cookman University now.

	L:	Wow. So that’s where you went to school?



	W:	Yes, that was in my freshman year. That’s where I went to college. L:	To college. Bethune-Cooper College.

	W:	My freshman year was at Bethune-Cookman College. L:	Where is that?

	W:	That’s at Daytona Beach.



	L:	Is that named after Mary McCleod Bethune?





	W:	Baby, that’s where—that’s her school. She built it from the ground; she did it all. L:	Wow. So—

	W:	The four girls that started at Bethune-Cookman University now, the four girls. L:	So, when did she start it? When?

	W:	Now, I don’t remember years; unless I write them down or talk about a lot, I won’t remember from memory. But I don’t know what year it was. But that’s where she started, with four girls. And she built that college from there. Mmhm.

	L:	So, it was—your education was all segregated, though? W:	Was what?

	L:	Was all segregated.



	W:	Yeah. Oh, yeah. All of that was during segregation.



	L:	Wow. And was there any kind of—what was the interaction like with the other students who were White students, that you—

	W:	No, there wasn’t any integration, now. She didn’t have any White students. No White students went there until now, I think, some are going since integration. But she never had any White students over there. But she had good relations with the White people. And people like—you know, some—some people’ names, I can’t call them. But that was, millionaires would go down to Daytona. See it’s more of a—it’s on the Atlantic Ocean, and they have—you know, what you have in the summertime. We could all go to them at the summer time—what do you call it, on the water?

	L:	The beach?



	W:	Beach, yes. Daytona has one of the best beaches in Florida. Yeah, mmhm.





	L:	So, did you used to go to the beaches?



	W:	Yeah, we used to go out there. And since I left school—now, we used to go down just for weekends on the beach. And stay maybe five days, or four days, or something like that.

	L:	So you graduated from high school around 1934. And then, did you start college the next year?

	W:	The same year.



	L:	The same year. And you moved down to Daytona. W:	No, they moved down there.

	L:	You were—



	W:	They went to school there. They had dormitories like you have at the college. I would just stay in the dormitory.

	L:	So you—yeah, but you were living in the dormitories in Daytona. And then, when did you go to—

	W:	Now see, Daytona at that time—Bethune-Cookman College, it merged with a school out of Jacksonville. That where the “Cookman” come from. So they did that, it went to Bethune-Cookman. And I went there when I was—it was a two- year college. More of a private college, because the state didn’t support it at all. I went there my freshman year. During the time that was in high school, I orated a lot. I won two scholarships. I won a speaking—story. Not a story, but the subject was the Negro’s contribution to American civilization. And we were asked to write on the subject. And then, I made it a statewide thing. And those who wrote, they had a program where the persons would give their speeches, and they were





giving prizes. One of the prizes was a prize to a college, to go to school. And it was when I was in high school. So, I wrote that—and I had help with a man who was very smart, a preacher, and he helped me to write this oration, the Negro’s contribution to American civilization. So, I competed with others around the state, gave my speech, but I was lucky enough to win first prize. And the first prize was—a newspaper out of Jacksonville gave it—a year in college, whatever college you want to go to. I hadn’t finished high school then, but they would save it until I did. So I went to Bethune-Cookman on that.

	L:	That was your first choice?



	W:	First choice. So, I went to Bethune-Cookman with that. And I am so glad that I chose Bethune-Cookman, because that was one of the best colleges. I mean, Ms. Bethune had it like your home. She didn’t want over two or three hundred students. And she really made you do—follow culture, and things you should do, and learned that. In other words, maybe like this: if a boy came into the dining room, and he didn’t pull out a chair for a girl, he didn’t eat. She’d be in there looking. I mean, she taught things that you didn’t—to respect girls. She always tell you to respect the girls, respect girls. You don’t do certain things, you don’t talk to them certain ways. And she’d be on the campus, walking around with a stick. And I always said that if I have to walk with a stick, I was going walk like she did. Because she walked with so much dignity. And see, she was older then.

	L:	So, did she teach any classes?



	W:	No, she didn’t teach any classes. She went ‘round—what she did, she worked for donations and contributions from—I’ll say, from rich people. A lot of the rich





people would come down to Daytona, for the summer especially. You know, the ones that have money. And she would have on Sundays what she called—well, I’ll name it when I can call it; I’ll say assembly hall. Sundays from three to five.

And when we were in the dormitory, we had to have on our uniform: blue skirts, white blouse, black shoes, and stockings. And on Wednesday, every child had to dress in that uniform, and we would march across the campus into assembly hall. And if you ever left the campus you had to have that uniform on. So, it was real nice. I enjoyed that. Because it really helped a lot of kids; they didn’t have to be dressed up and trying to show out, and things like that. When we would go out to sing, when we had a concert in Jacksonville, or one in Tampa—I say it that way because I know we went to those places, I was in the choir—you had to have on your uniform.

	L:	You had to represent the school.



W:  Yeah. And no whole lot of makeup. She’d go with you. And if you on a tour, all lipsticked, all painted up, she’d give you a piece of paper and tell you to wipe it off. [Laughter]

L:   So, did you have a lot of personal interaction with her?



	W:	I only went to her house one time. Her house was right on the campus. And then, she met me on campus one day. I was the type of person—I didn’t smile much, I just fall in there. She say she knew me: “But I know every child by name that’s on the campus.” She says, “Thelma, you don’t seem to have much personality.

I’ve been watching you. You got to smile. If you on this campus, you got to smile!” And I always tell people, I’ve been grinning ever since! [Laughter]





	L:	[Laughter] So she was a powerful influence in your life.



	W:	Yes, she was that. I mean—she say, “You need to be representative of this school. I want to you to be a representative. You walk by, be smiling; speak to people.” You know, because that’s the way she was. That’s why I really liked her so much: she taught us—she didn’t indulge in little foolish fanfare things. And we always talking about—went down to the Homecoming the week before last, and the girls, you know, they all in the front of the band dancing, like you all do at the university. And Lord, if Ms. Bethune were there, she wouldn’t have that! [Laughter] I say, “Yeah, God know what you done,” because you have your different years of this and years of that. I said, “No, she wouldn’t have that.” I guess it wouldn’t many children there, either, because it would be [inaudible 35:59] all that stuff. She would have it, but she’d be carrying it in a decent way.

She wouldn’t have the girls dressing like some of them dress and all that.



	L:	Right. She had a standard of decency. W:	Yes.

	L:	So it was—there were both boys and girls? W:	Yes, it was co-education.

	L:	And so, after you finished two years—



	W:	No, I went there one year. Then my mother sent me to a—see, I went on that scholarship, because Bethune-Cookman, I told you, was a private school. A lot of that might’ve had to come from donations from other people; like I said, there was rich people would come down, and they would donate a lot of money to the school. Because they would come out there on those Sundays when they had





that hour program and all, and the White people would come out, too, that was down there—and give lots of money, because the kids, they always had a very good choir. Now, they really had a good choir. She always hired real good musicians. People who were music people. And they really had a very good choir. And those people would love to hear them sing. Now, her school, when they had assemblies, White people could sit among the Blacks. She didn’t have a White section and a Black section, and that’s what they used to have before integration. Whenever the two came together, they always have a special place for the Whites to sit, special place for the Blacks. But she didn’t have that at her school. Now, when you come to her school, you had to sit where you could find a seat.

	L:	So, all the rich White people who came had to be integrated? W:	Mmhm.

	L:	And this was in the nineteen—



	W:	They didn’t seem to mind it, they didn’t seem to mind it. And it would be a lot of them there on Sunday, because they loved to hear the singing. Because the chorus was a very good chorus. And they had a quartet that was out of this world. They traveled for the school, and they brought in a lot of money to the school. Because that’s the way—it existed on where you would be in your dormitory, and what she got from people who came from to the school; and especially the rich White people, because we didn’t have any Blacks.

	L:	So then, you went to—





	W:	I went there one year. Now I tell you that to tell you this: the next year, she sent me to Florida A&M. Now, Florida A&M is supported by the state.

	L:	Fanny sent you there? W:	Say what?

	L:	Fanny? Or your mother?



	W:	Fanny, yes, Fanny. She was my mother from then on. [Laughter] And she sent me to Florida A&M. Now, Florida A&M was cheaper, because that was a state school. And when I went there on a scholarship, the class got paid, where Bethune-Cookman charged, because they gave me the scholarship. So they paid my whole—for the whole year. And I’m glad she sent me to Bethune-Cookman.

	L:	But you sent yourself because you were so good at that speech competition, the statewide.

	W:	I used to speak a lot.



	L:	How did you decide on Bethune-Cookman college? W:	Now really, Fanny decided it for me.

	L:	She did?



	W:	Mmhm. And I’m glad she did, that’s why I was saying I’m so glad she sent me there. She knew about the school, she knew about the college, and she knew what it stood for and everything. And then, it’s supported by the Methodist Church, and we are in the Methodist Church. And she’d go, and she would— that’s the church that we’d go to, United Methodist Church. And that was another reason why she did it, because they supported our school.





	L:	By the Methodists. And so, what was your experience at Florida A&M College like?

	W:	Well, it was almost like Bethune-Cookman. I participated in chorus and I—but I really loved Bethune-Cookman better, because again, it was home experience; it was just like home. And she wanted all the kids to like each other, she wanted all of them to be like a family. And that’s the way she was. And she knew every one of those children on campus, by their name.

	L:	How was the education? Were your teachers strict? W:	Oh, yes! [Laughter]

	L:	[Laughter] Yeah?



	W:	Yes, they were. Our teachers—the courses, teachers at Bethune-Cookman would be hard on you. Just Florida A&M teachers never wanted to deal with it.

	L:	So, they had higher expectations of you at Bethune than they did at Florida?



	W:	Yeah. I really loved that school, I really thought a lot of it. I cried when I went there, but I didn’t know until later why she sent me—well, the economy was what it was. Later years, she talked about it. And I was so mad with her for not sending me back to Bethune-Cookman. So, when she explained to me why she I did it, then I could understand. But by going to Florida A&M, I had to go that summer before I graduated. They had the two-year course, too, but they still had the four. Ended up going down there to go to summer school, but I still came out the same year that I would have in Daytona, in May. Made no difference. So I forgave her then. [Laughter]

	L:	So, was it two year college? At A&M, or to Florida, or four-year?





	W:	Both of the schools had the same equivalent, with the two A&M program— [Laughter] Two-year program. See, the two-year program, actually the teachers teach us how to be teachers.

	L:	So it was like a normal training institute?



	W:	You see, you go on four years, you’d learn more, but that two-year course especially for training you to teach.

	L:	So you chose to be in the training—teacher training course?



	W:	No, my mother chose for me to be in the teacher training course. [Laughter] L:	Your mother chose for you to be in it.

	W:	[Laughter] Because she was paying for it! But if I’d had to do it, I’d have stayed, I would’ve—but Bethune-Cookman didn’t offer four years then. They offered only the two-year training.

	L:	And it was a technical training school for teachers. Uh-huh.



	W:	But Florida A&M had the same program, but they had extended to four years. You could take some math; you could major in Math, or Science, or anything at Florida A&M. But now, down at Daytona, it was two years, teachers’ courses.

	L:	So when did you graduate with your—so, you graduated with a teaching certificate at the end?

	W:	Yes.



	L:	And it was 1937?



	W:	[19]36.



	L:	[19]36. And so, you were really young at that time!





	W:	But see, I wanted to keep on going to school. And I would teach in the winter, go to school in the summer. Until I got my four years. I got both two and four from Florida A&M. See, after I got the two-year, I started teaching.

	L:	So where did you start teaching?



	W:	Right here in Alachua. Been here all my life.



	L:	So that—so you got your degree, your teaching certificate; then, the principal, who was Mr. Mebane, heard that you were a good music player and he asked you to come, and then you would spend your summers going to school on your four years. Oh! And so, what did your four-year degree, what was that in?

	W:	It was in Education.



	L:	That was in Education as well? Ah. And then you got a Masters?



	W:	After I graduated from Florida A&M—this mean I graduated from there twice, because I got my two-year from there; I told you, I only went to Bethune one. And I just kept on. My mother found out about West Virginia State Institute; she just [inaudible 44:23] segregated. I went there in the summertime. And I got a really good background in music there. They changed my major—I got that teacher, I got into teaching—and I changed it, when I would go to school, back to Music.

	L:	So, when did you start going to get your Masters?



	W:	After I—when’d I come back? I came back to Florida A&M, got my four years.



Then I started at Ohio State.



	L:	Ohio State? So, you were teaching with Mr. Mebane during the year, and then during the summer you would go to different—





	W:	Different schools. I went to West Virginia first. And then I graduated from Florida A&M, I was going to West Virginia, then after I finished there—I didn’t finish on West Virginia, then I started on a Masters, and I started at Ohio State.

	L:	Ohio State. And that was in Music? W:	Yes, Music Education.

	L:	Music Education. And then, when did you—you stayed, you graduated from—? W:	Ohio State. With my Masters.

	L:	How did you—did you travel there every summer? W:	I went there every summer, two sessions.

	L:	That’s a long travel! Wow. Did you pick Ohio State for a particular reason?



	W:	Well, I liked it. Because I had a teacher who was working with me who was from Ohio State. And I said I wasn’t going to graduate; “Well, I won’t have that.” I said I wanted to go to some big school [inaudible 46:06], and so I said maybe I’d get a better job if I graduate from some well-known school. That’s my thinking, now; I wasn’t talking to anybody. So then, about me knowing this lady was teaching with me, I talked with her about Ohio State, how she liked it and where it was. And I said, “Well, I know you. If I go there, I’ll know somebody.” I wasn’t afraid to venture out. No, I wasn’t afraid of that. But I did like to know somebody if I could. So, she going there, and she seemed to be a good teacher. I chose her. I wrote to Ohio State for their catalogue, and I chose to go there. And I’m glad I did, too, because there’s a man from here, from Alachua, where the dentist at. He had a brother here, and he told him that was I was going come, he said, “Thelma, come on here! We need to have somebody from down there in Florida.” And she end





up—I wrote them, and they knew I was coming; his wife was named Lily Mae, and she was supposed to meet me at the station. And I had never seen her before. And other words, we made friends, just talking and like that. So that’s why I was glad to go there. I really was. I really had—had the teachers, the school; everything. I really liked Ohio State. And one of the teachers after I got there was in Music, and he had been to Alachua. And I remember him coming and he remembered me when I back in his class, and I told him. He said, “Oh, you was the one that liked that tie I had on that time.” He had on a music tie, with music notes on there. And he met with the school, and he was in assembly when we had an assembly. I hadn’t even decided to go to Ohio State then, but I didn’t know it was going to be—he was named Mr. Leader, Joe Leader. And sure enough, I was in one of his classes, and he say, “I know you!” [Laughter]

	L:	So, was this also a segregated school? W:	No, no, no! Ohio State—

	L:	Ohio State was integrated.



	W:	Yeah, just like University of Florida. It integrated. It always was integrated. You see, a lot of those larger schools, like four-year colleges—especially up North— they’re integrated. Some of them, they always been integrated.

	L:	Well I thought Florida—University of Florida—wasn’t integrated until the [19]40s. W:	Mmhm, it was. You could go there through correspondence. I never went up to

Florida, I never went. But the strangest thing: Florida would pay you to go to these other schools.

	L:	They would pay you to leave?





	W:	They paid me when I went to Ohio State. L:	Because they didn’t—

	W:	They didn’t have Negroes.



	L:	Oh my goodness! So they would rather pay you to leave and not attend Florida than to have you attend Florida? How did you feel about that?

	W:	Well, how did I feel? I felt awful! That’s why I never would go out there to the University of Florida, never to the football games! [Laughter]

	L:	I bet. You wouldn’t have very good feelings about Florida! Yeah. Oh my goodness!

	W:	Well, you could take extension courses. That’s what you could do. You could write in, and they send you work to do, and you mailed it back.

	L:	But they didn’t want you physically on the campus? W:	That’s right, now. That’s it.

	L:	And you said no.



	W:	I didn’t want to do that. I wanted to be in the school out there. I learned more going to classes. Lot of people did that; I just wouldn’t do it. I said, “If I can’t go in there physically, myself? I don’t want nothing like that.”

	L:	Mm. Wow. So, okay.



	W:	We haven’t gotten to school yet! [Laughter]



	L:	We haven’t even gotten to—we’ve been all around the country, though! [Laughter]

	W:	Well, I was here. When they integrated the schools, I was still going to Ohio State in the summer.







L:

Oh, my goodness! Okay, so when did you finally get your M.A. in Music



Education from Ohio?

W:

1959.

L:

1959. So, by that point—

W:

Class of eight hundred.

L:

So by that point, you had been teaching for many years?

W:

That’s right.

L:

And all under Principal Mebane.

W:

That’s right.

L:

And what was the school called? This is before it was called Mebane High



School, right?

W:

Yep, it was Alachua County Training School.

L:

Alachua County Training School. And the principal was—?

W:

A. L. Mebane.

L:

Uh-huh. Okay. And so, you started there after you finished your college degree?

W:

No, I finished it while I was there. Which you mean? The four-year college?

L:

Just two-year.

W:

Well yeah, I started that.

L:

And then you worked, continued while you were doing your four-year, and then



you continued while you were doing your master’s.

W:

That’s true, that’s it.

L:

So you taught music this entire time?





	W:	No. I did music on the side, as I said. When he wanted me to come to Mebane, it was to play for any music activities they had—programs. And that’s where I got a lot of experience, because the teachers then started giving—school giving operettas, operettas. In the Elementary department, we had operettas. They had never had one before, because they hadn’t had anyone to play for them. And then, the principal required every Elementary teacher, from one through six, to give an operetta. And that kept me very busy! I had a class, teaching second grade—I started with second grade—and that’s the time I had put their, assigned school student on the class, because I was without—we had to make our lesson plans. And [inaudible 52:47] what to do, but I always practicing for my first grade operetta, and they started in January! Then the next would be the second grade operetta. And the next would be the third grade operetta. Now, put it this way: third grade and fourth grade were together, so that would be one representing third and fourth grade. And then, fifth grade they had singer sing fifth grade. Sixth grade would sing an operetta. Then go into the Junior High School. That year, they would have a minstrel show. And that was nothing but music: you know, singing, and solos, and dances, and all that kind of—all of that. Then they had the basketball season, and they would have them socials after the basketball season with the visiting team after the game is over. That’s at night, and they’d be fed. And I would play for them to dance for about two hours, I guess. I did so much of playing until a rising came on this hand, about that high. I went to the doctor, and the doctor told me it was a strained muscle from playing





the piano. And it did came up about this high. Now, you know it stayed there until I quit? Didn’t hurt it or nothing, but the more I played the bigger it got.

	L:	It was just about an inch off of your skin. Wow.



	W:	So after they had the minstrel show, then there was the fashion show. Leading the fashion—they would give that, that’s the way that calendar went, every year, when time got there. Until we left. [Laughter]

	L:	So you were so busy teaching second grade, and then doing all of this other stuff!

	W:	No, that was on the side. All of that was for no pay. L:	Oh, my goodness!

	W:	Because I was paid to teach elementary. An elementary teacher teaching second grade. Because all this other stuff came in to create the [inaudible 54:58] to do.

But they never paid me for it. But I often tell, I say—now, I just think about it now. And I say, “You know, actually it was crazy.” [Laughter] But I just loved to play. I’d rather play, because I really liked to play. I love music, and to hear somebody else produce it, or see kids dancing by it; that made me feel good. And I just loved it. And I was telling them working at Alachua County Training School made me what I was. And I would play for churches. Anything, because they didn’t have anybody who played—most people then played by ear, most of them didn’t take any music.

	L:	So you, because you could read music, you could just— W:	That’s only way I played; got to give me the music.





	L:	Play. So you played—I mean, you said you were from an Episcopal Church? Or, Methodist.

	W:	United Methodist.



	L:	Methodist. I’m mixing up my denominations. So did you only play for Methodist churches, or did you play for all kinds?

	W:	I’d play for anybody who asked. I didn’t play with the Sanctified Church; I didn’t play for them. But the Baptists have asked me to play; the A.M.E., I’ve played at that Church. They were—those were the people asked me to play. You know, once they found out I could play and I wouldn’t mind doing it. Or you’d accompany somebody me with a solo.

	L:	Who was the Sanctified Church? W:	Huh?

	L:	The Sanctified Church?



	W:	[Laughter] You’ve never heard of that? L:	Never heard of. [Laughter] I don’t know.

	W:	You are really learning something [inaudible 56:39]. L:	I’m learning a lot! [Laughter]

	W:	And it was nice. I know you enjoyed it, because you’re learning things! No, they are, they call them “Sanctified people,” that’s a nickname for them. They just, they do a lot of dancing. Now, I don’t criticize, but it’s not my people, because I don’t play there. I don’t play in that Church.

	L:	So is it like the revival? W:	Yeah, that type of thing.





	L:	Okay, I got it. So a lot of really emotional— W:	Very emotion.

	L:	Okay, huh. So you played for the other churches?



	W:	Yes, they send me up like that. I played Baptisms. Yeah.



	L:	Okay. So you’ve had this incredible experience as a music teacher. What was your philosophy of teaching? When you taught second grade, or Music, what was your philosophy behind it?

	W:	Well, I really wanted to give children a complete knowledge of what life mean, I compared my teaching to life. Teaching children the real way to really live life. And know what you are doing, to be really knowledgeable about everything. If your child—I’ll give you just experience, at school; you learn a lot. I really have learned a lot. That’s why I say it really taught me life. I was teaching second grade, and I was trying to teach the children how to use “is” and “are.” And I said, “When you talking about one apple”—just like I told them; I never will forget it! “You say ‘one apple,’ ‘the apple is red,’ or anything that you talking about one of them, then you say ‘is.’ And that’s the way you do it.” So the little girl, her mother was a teacher there, she called and she tell her momma what she learn in school. Her momma say she ask her, “Mary what’d you learn today?” “Ms.

Glover”—my name was Glover then, Thelma Glover—“What did you learn in school today?” “Ms. Glover told us how to use ‘is.’ And that’s what I learned. If you’re talking about apple, if you’re talking about one apple, you say ‘is apple.’” She asked her, say, “Mary Lou, what did she say to say if you see four apples?” “She ain’t taught me that.” And I got—I said, “Now, that wasn’t good teaching.”





You know, I take—when people tell me things, I don’t get mad. I say, “You know what? That better, I will never”—and from that day to this, I say, “That wasn’t thorough teaching!” And I got back on that “is” and “are” the next day. “Anything more than one, you say ‘are.’” That’s all I needed to have said, and I didn’t. So I would say—no, I think, after I said ‘is,’ I said, “When you talking about three apples”—I think it was with three, that’s what it was—“you would say ‘are.’” And she asked—and then, Ms. Lewis ask her, “Well, what would you say if you was talking about eight apples?” She said, “She ain’t taught us that yet.” So that’s what I should have said: “More than one.”

	L:	Right.



	W:	I set that on my mind, I got back on that “is” the next day, and I did it, like that. I said “I’ll never forget.” I wanted to be thorough. I wanted to teach kids, really, the right thing. And sometimes I think I was too—that’s right into my music. They had us doing festivals. My school had to compete with Lincoln High School in Gainesville, and Lincoln High School was the biggest Black school. They had a good enrollment, much more than we had here. I think our highest enrollment was about a hundred kids. But in Gainesville, they would’ve thousands in high school. And we should not have been competing with Gainesville, because we don’t have the kids. But they insisted that I compete with Gainesville. But when I competed with Gainesville, and they was as good as Gainesville or better, we never got the prize. Because Gainesville was better, and they would talk with the judges before they come.





	L:	So, they would rig the contest so that you, even if you were playing better, you still wouldn’t win?

	W:	I still wouldn’t win.



	L:	Ugh! I bet that frustrating.



	W:	It was hard. I cried, but I didn’t let my children see me. I took it away. L:	Because your competitive nature, and you wanted to win.

	W:	One time, they let me! [Laughter] But now, I said that to bring in this: why can’t kids learn the [inaudible 1:02:09] anthem—not anthem, like, I’ll never turn back, that bit. The colleges could hardly sing. Difficult. Kids don’t know music. They don’t know what a half-note is; they don’t anything about nothing. But yet, you would talk to—you teach those kids those difficult numbers, which I did. But that was a cure. What I did on my own, I bought the music for every child in my course. If I had twenty-five children, I’d go to the music store; I bought twenty-five copies of the music. I had me a blackboard. Drawed me a staff up there. I sure told them what that was. And where the notes are on there. And how you look at them with your eyes; you can go up and down with your voice the same way.

That’s where I put it, very elementary, so they can understand. And that’s what I did. I didn’t teach them nothing unless they saw the music. And I wasn’t going— the state didn’t pay me for no music. Didn’t pay me to teach no music. But that’s the way I did in order to try to have them, that my course became as good as they did. Because I taught them music. I had to do that! I mean, in order for them to sing well. And I had to spend my money for it. Never got paid back, nothing.

No one never given me anything. And that’s the way I—because I never do





anything without the music. And I taught them a lot. They appreciated it. But our appreciation, they would work with me as hard as any children I have ever known. That’s why I said that school taught me something. And all the teachers, all the children, all the parents, would work with me. When we had to have our uniform, some of the teachers would buy the kids uniforms if they didn’t have it. And they really stuck with me, and I tell anybody, that A.L. Mebane, that Alachua County Training School taught me life. And taught me what it meant to work together. And all the faculty and all, they worked with me. I really appreciated it. They would have my kids, after they get their uniforms made—some of them had to have made, parents had to have them made—they would have those children, the teachers and I, have those childrens to put those uniforms on, and they’d get every one of them the same length on the floor. So, when they stood, one of those—.They had a beautiful yard, I must say, because [inaudible 1:04:57] had to help me with them. And [inaudible 1:04:59] going to Jacksonville, and they got the pant on—when we had uniforms that needed to be made, that they wanted.

And they would buy cloth for the kids. Teachers would go to Jacksonville, and then they’d get their pattern. “She’s a size twelve; need four yards of this or that.” For one or two parents, the teachers would buy it for them, for that they couldn’t get it. That’s why I say so much cooperation, how you can work together and get what you want. And I’ll never forget how important that is. And I tell that, I tell that to people. And I guess that’s why I can’t get along with nobody now! [Laughter] And that was where I really learned, and where I tried to teach—you teach a child. What’s the use of having a festival with all these hard—now, see, they





have a committee. I wasn’t on the committee. And none of them teachers were; Music they had, of course. And they would select music for us—which, that was wrong. They didn’t know a quarter note from a penny; they didn’t know anything. And they would make—what they wanted to hear them sing. And then, the kids supposed to sing these things, teacher got to teach something, but that is so hard to do. And so, that’s why I bought my own music and things like that. It had a solo division. I taught kids to sing, compete within solo division, in the choral division—both elementary and high school! And I had to teach classes, too. And I say that’s why the Lord has blessed me, to keep me here ninety-two years. And I really worked—I’m not boasting about it, but I really worked. And I lay down in my bed sometimes and wonder why did I work hard like I did. With no pay, but I did get it from the children. They were just—I remember when a class graduated, the whole class, just about, was in our chorus. I cried so hard that day I could hardly see the notes. [Laughter] Play for the kids to come marching, I said, “Lord I really thank you for these kids!” And they were so attentive and nice to me. They tried to do everything I tell them to do. And that’s what I appreciate. Because I told them, I said, “Now, when you doing everything I would ask you to do, it just always be do.” I said, “All I ask you to do is to do what I ask you to do. And no, you might not be rewarded for it like you should, but you was doing what I told you to do.” And they did. They was a nice set of children. About two of them still living that go to my Church, and they still talk about it. I must be taught—I taught them that music. That’s what I did to help them. And they still talk about how they appreciate it.





	L:	That must be so rewarding!



	W:	It was. That’s why I really, I loved those kids. Those that’s still living, I still love them.

	L:	Wow. So how did you go—how did the school go from Alachua County Training School to Mebane?

	W:	Well, before integration—because they knew it was coming. I mean, that’s what people—I didn’t. I was—. [Laughter] In fact, I didn’t believe it was coming, although they did talk about it. I didn’t never believe the integration—

	L:	You never believed in integration?



	W:	I didn’t. I liked it; I liked it. But I say I never believed it was going happen. L:	But you thought it was a good thing?

	W:	No, I didn’t think it was good. But I just didn’t think it would ever happen. It’d gone so long all these years, and they just every now and then come around in the paper about this that and the other. I said, “Shoot, they won’t have no integration. It’s not going be.

	L:	You didn’t think it was going to happen, but you also didn’t want it to happen.



	W:	Well, in a way I didn’t, then in a way I did. So it was six in one, half a dozen the other.

	L:	So take me through the logic. What—I mean, I don’t know how you—because I wasn’t here. So, I have no idea.

	W:	I feel that it wasn’t as good as I thought it would be. Because so many people didn’t want it, when it happened. Because I know—I think even with my kids, even for the children, where I think it wasn’t good for it to happen. In a way, I





thought they would learn more culture, and this, that, and things and the other. But now, when it come down to real life, as to what—you asked me what was my opinion about the education when I was teaching. They really getting it good they’re supposed to be gotten from it; it doesn’t happen. They’re supposed to been gotten from it. And everyone say it was supposed to have been, because we integrated, and they did that, and caught up with the children, everything.

	L:	Everybody was supposed to get along, but in reality, discrimination—



	W:	Now, you take for instance, now: you not integrated. What happen on Fridays, on Saturdays, and Sundays with the kids? They all go back the Whites together, and all go back the Blacks together. And churches, you very seldom see Black going to the White church—or if they do, the reception is such that they don’t want to go back. Now, we was coming out the other day, my husband said, “You know what I think? I used to see a Black couple going into the Baptist church down there. I don’t see it.” Now, of course, I told him, I say, “Well don’t be down there looking at church every Sunday. You don’t know whether they going or not.” But he was right. But I just ain’t going agree with him. But they don’t go there now; they might not have been received well, or—you know? So it isn’t thoroughly integration. We still Negroes go to they church, and the White go to their church. The White [inaudible 1:11:08] and all, sing, clap together. You know, that isn’t integration.

L:   So you knew that, even though the idea behind integration was a good one, how it actually would work out wouldn’t be. And it would end up discriminating against your children.





	W:	Mmhm.



	L:	I see.



	W:	Might as well think about it at best. And it seemed—you know, like I had that course, it was good. I don’t like to boast, but I’m trying to tell, I’m just stating the truth just like it was. But I would ask for—the churches, some would come, “Ms. Welch, can we get a selection from your chorus for the third Sunday? We would like to have them on the program.” “Sure, I’d be glad to!” And I would get them ready, and they would go. But now, I tried this after integrated; I asked—and I did it. I meant it, but I wanted to see would it work. I asked the choral director of this school here about a number or two on a program. They didn’t say yes nor no. But I didn’t never see them. Never did counsel me again, or talk with me again, sing anything. Now see, they’ve got a plan. And I have gone to them, because they ask my kids to come, or they ask me. But no. You see.

	L:	Yeah. So they didn’t respect your ability. Yeah.



	W:	Mmhm. So with some of the teachers, some of the teachers, we were talking, had a lot of fun. You see, they brought the teachers into the school before they brought the children. Because they voted on that and it came to be true. And I would meet one or two of the teachers in Gainesville—it was a store in Gainesville downtown called Wilson’s Store. A lot of people traded there. And this one teacher, particular teacher, she always liked to talk with me. “Thelma this,” and “Thelma this.” I met her in Wilson’s Store on Saturday. She coming toward me, I was coming toward her. And do you know she turned her head? She didn’t want anybody—White person—see her speak to me; I was Black.





	L:	Because she was White.



	W:	Mmhm. See, that type of thing. Now you going tell me you got integration. I talk with you among your color, but now I couldn’t get a White [inaudible 1:13:48] going do that. Can’t let anyone see me talking to you.

	L:	It’s a double standard.



	W:	Well, that’s not integration!



	L:	Kind of like the reason, maybe, that you didn’t go to Florida? W:	Yeah.

	L:	So for you that was similar, that was kind of—? W:	Mmhm. Yes, mmhm. [Knocks on a table]

	L:	But, okay, so. The law that mandated that segregation was illegal, Brown v. Board of Education, that happened in 1954. But Mebane didn’t get integrated until the 1970s, right?

	W:	Mmhm.



	L:	So what was that like, that period between knowing that legally it was supposed to be integrated, but in fact, it wasn’t?

	W:	Well, it was one thing you have to accept: they’ve said it so here. As for me individually, I’ve tried to be like you would be in integration. Now, if I—now just like I told you about the teacher, where she did, now I wanted speak to her and chat with her about something—just a little something something—but I saw the reaction. You know, I’d’ve been a fool to been, “Hey, Ms. So-and-so! How you doing?” And I might would’ve done it if it had’ve been—but she gave me, she—! [Laughter] She came in the doorway, she was approaching me, then she walk





around all that stuff! I just, I don’t know. Now, and I know integration’s supposed to be, but it’s just in some parts. Just some.

	L:	When did you first start working with White teachers?



	W:	Well now, it started working with White teachers I guess about two or three years before they actually started integration, because they started the place by doing it that way, putting in the teachers in with the Blacks. And of course, the teachers was all right, because they were me. I know one lady told me, was a teacher, used to tell me about how, “Say, Ms. Welch, I can hear you with your children singing.” She said, “But you shouldn’t use your voice so much. Why shouldn’t you have records?” But the state did have records for every elementary teacher that’s in teaching elementary, but who got them? The White schools. I never got one.

	L:	You never got the records?



	W:	And she was right. Now, I’m having trouble now with my vocal cords. The doctor had me—I say, “Sometimes, I think I’m going lose my voice.” And she—that’s what this lady told me. She say, “Do you know, as much as you sing with those kids”—because she hear me teaching, in the classroom. I had to play it, and then most of them I had to change the key because they were too high. She said, “Well let me—down at the elementary school, So-and-so got records that she plays for kids to sing by.” I said, “Well I ain’t never had any.” They never gave the Black schools any records.

	L:	So, did she just not realize that there was a different standard?





	W:	Yeah—I guess she did. She knew then it was. So, this lady that was talking with me was telling me how a relative of hers in another state was having trouble with her voice, a music teacher. Because she didn’t have any. She said, “You ought to get records to play.” Yes, [inaudible 1:17:30]. And you know, I joined a group after I retired—this White group, they did—. I’ve already forgot my note. I stopped singing with them about four years ago. I was getting to the place that I couldn’t sing a note. Do you know anything about music?

	L:	Mmhm, a little bit.



	W:	The second space A. I got to a place I couldn’t do it. Voice started going down like that, and I got out of it. About four years ago, it’s been, that I got out. And my voice has been—and sometime, I can’t hardly carry a tune. And my throat—I have the best trouble I’m having with my husband: he doesn’t hear well, and I can’t talk loud. And when I talk loud, I get hoarse. I’m a little hoarse now. And I have to—then, “I can’t hear you.” “I can’t hear you.” And I try to talk as loud—and I can’t. I can’t get no higher than second space A. That’s why I said a lot of people don’t know what I’m talking about; I mean, they don’t know music. But that’s what I was getting when I was singing with the chorus, and so I quit. It’s because I don’t want to mess anything—you know, like I tried to teach my children: yous be right. You do it; if you can’t, don’t do it. And that’s what I was becoming in the chorus. I knew I couldn’t. And like I would tell them, too, when they know the children standing beside us, telling me, “Ms. Welch, So-and-so, they going sing like that.” I say, “Wait a second: I need the body, but I don’t need





the chords.” But that’s what’s happening. I hope I don’t lose my voice. But sometimes, after I talk real loud to him, I get to the place I can’t hardly talk.

	L:	Well. Well I will only ask you a few more questions, so that we can save your voice! Because I don’t want you to get hoarse.

	W:	Oh, don’t take me that way! [Laughter] L:	Okay, so, when did you retire?

	W:	1979.



	L:	197—



	W:	It’s near about thirty years.



	L:	But, oof! So 1979, and you had started in 1936? W:	[19]36. [19]36 and [19]37.

	L:	And so, by this point Mebane had closed.



	W:	Yeah, because Mebane closed in—I don’t know exactly when. Do you remember the date?

	L:	1970.



	W:	Have you learned since you’ve been here the year of the integration?



	L:	I think it was, the Mebane school was open from 1956 to 1970—as a school, Mebane School.

	W:	Oh, 1970. Meaning integration didn’t start ‘til that? Thought it started before that. L:	Well, that’s what—I looked on the website of the school, and that’s what it said.

But you thought it started earlier?



	W:	I thought it was around—you say 1970 is what you saw? I thought that thing started in 195—I graduated in 1959, didn’t I?





	L:	[19]59.



	W:	Yeah, [19]59. I thought integration came 1956. I thought that was around the year it was integration. Well, you’ve got something there; must mean they all had it better than me!

	L:	Well, I mean, but they didn’t live through it, so—. [Laughter] You recall it being 1956?

	W:	Yes, [19]56 and [19]57. Because I graduated in 1958. Maybe I’m wrong. I’m trying to think now, related to—because I don’t have anything here to prove it.

	L:	Well when did Alachua County Training school merge with Mebane?



	W:	That’s when it merged, it just went into that name, when they merged and district, they helped the merger, and the school was finished—they was building it, see.

	L:	Uh-huh. So when it merged, it opened as—it moved to a new building, and it opened as an integrated school, as you recall?

	W:	That’s a good question. Yeah, that was when—when was I there? Oh, that was when I—I changed, too. I had to change. I went as a county itinerant music teacher, going around all the Black schools. And so, it wasn’t integrated then when I started that job. But it integrated when I got that job, and they sent me down to—. Trying to think of it now; I’m giving it too much thought, but it should have. Because I was going round as an itinerant music teacher because I still went to only Black schools. I have to find out for myself, because I—I, was they integrated? I know—no, I was going round to all-Black schools. And when they integrated—see, the integration like it was Monday coming to be the first day of integration. I was right there, and I was right in Alachua. Doing—I was teaching.





They wouldn’t teach no music. Doing Language Arts. So, my teaching music days were gone. I did Language Arts when they integrated, they had integrated. And so, my school had had a faculty meeting, I was told I’d be teaching it. But I was going around in the county to all-Black schools, as itinerant music teacher, before then. But now, what year was it that I started? I’m sorry, I can’t give you the year and dates on that that I should have, but I didn’t write it down, I didn’t keep it.

L:  Well, it’s not a problem. Do you remember when you—so, when you started— first you taught in the all-Black school, and then it was integrated, and then did you have White students all of the sudden, as a teacher?

	W:	Yes. When it integrated, my schedule and that, they met and changed all that. So when integration came the first day, they had faculty meeting before that day, told what you’s going do. And that’s when I knew then that I would be teaching right there at Mebane. But all the while, before my office was at Mebane, going around in the county; but now, on the day of integration, the day integration came, I was told—we were all told what we’d be teaching—that I would have Language Arts. And they had these different—can’t call the name since I left there. You would be on a group. It was altogether different from what we were doing. And that started off the first day of integration, at your school. I was on a— you don’t call it “the class”—. I’m sorry, I really should’ve looked all that up before now. Because you don’t talk about it, just grays.

	L:	I know it’s hard to ask someone to remember so much stuff all of a sudden! So, were they like committees?





	W:	They don’t call “committees.” What, what, what? “What so-and-so are you in?” I would be—now, Mebane is called a middle school. All right? It was grades five through eight.

	L:	Middle school?



	W:	Mmhm. So, those were the kids that I would be teaching then. And they—we would be mixed up, so it wouldn’t be come to me as fourth grade this by coming to me. But they—“oh, what thing are you on?” Now, it’ll come to me when you go home.

	L:	Sure, that’s how it always happens.



	W:	[Laughter] But you haven’t been to any of the schools. Any [inaudible 1:26:13] me, right?

	L:	Uh-huh.



	W:	Because what did they call it? Because middle school, they divide. L:	They have high school.

	W:	There’s a school, and the grades into— L:	Classes? Sections? I don’t know.

	W:	Well, they were going be, they were going be taught math, all the subjects they been taught; but they were in the groups. But they didn’t call them “groups.” See, I just want to think of the name it was called. I was on the—. Then they had a head person of that group. The teachers that would teach these kids, but the kids would be all mixed up. Wouldn’t saying fourth grade, fifth grade, sixth grade, something like that. But we’d know, we would know, what grade level we had. I’m sorry about that, because that’s important! I just can’t think of, what you call that?





	L:	Were they like the Language Arts programs?



	W:	No, they said—. No, that would be a part of—I said that I was teaching Language Arts; Language Arts was language, and reading, and stuff that was part of Language Arts; would have me a group. But the teachers, they was divided.

They was divided, we can say “groups,” but what is the name they divide into?



	L:	Classes?



	W:	You done said that, you had the classes. But what were they—? You had one teacher would be head of that group, but she still had classes, but you would meet with that teacher. And these other groups meet their teacher. Then one of those teachers would be the head of the group.

	L:	I see. So, it was a way of structuring the teachers, making so all of the teachers had a section, a leader of the—a head teacher?

	W:	Yes.



	L:	Okay. So, when you first were teaching an integrated classroom, you were at Mebane?

	W:	That’s right.



	L:	And then, what did you do when Mebane closed? W:	No. Mebane didn’t close; they kept the name.

	L:	Oh! It became Mebane Middle School. W:	That’s right.

	L:	Oh, okay. So you just stayed through. W:	Yeah, stayed through that.





	L:	But Mebane went from being a school only for Black children to then having White children.

	W:	That’s right.



	L:	But instead of being K through twelve, it became only middle school. W:	Yes, that’s right.

	L:	Okay, I got it now. All right. So all of a sudden, you had different kinds of students.

	W:	Oh, that’s right.



	L:	From one day to the next. They just—how did they tell you? You were at a meeting, a staff meeting?

	W:	Well, what we’d do is, first thing in the morning, each teacher would meet in this group. Then when the bell ring, it rang, you know, used to go start your classes. And kids would come to you from fourth, fifth, sixth. All grades, in math, if I had a math class, all kids in that group would come to me, regardless of grade, and so forth. But all the teacher on that group had the same amount of children.

	L:	Okay, and they were all mixed up. W:	Yes, all mixed up.

	L:	Wow.



	W:	So, the first assembly they had, they all the kids there, tell them where to go. And then, the boys said when they told them about going to—Music class? Was it Music class? Can’t be Music class, because didn’t teach them music.Well, they said they want to play football. Now see, they was probably coming in—that group, they come to me. “We want to play football! We want to play football!” And





I said to myself, “Now [inaudible 1:30:36] how to sing, and we going have a nasty group with you.” And that was the big White boys. And, “We going play football” and everything. And that’s what they want to say, come all the way in my class.

And I say to myself, “I’m going have a hell of a time with these kids, I see that right now! What am I going to do? Lord, I”—to me, that first day was the worst day of my life! I didn’t know how this thing was going to turn out, and how the kids were going respond, and all that kind of stuff. Because I know I asked them to sing a song. And they didn’t want to sing, they didn’t want to sing the song that the people have. They not, they’ try to respect the Negroes by not singing that song. And what is that? Anyway, when I was going play it, play the song that I had chosen, they wanted to sing that song. And it wasn’t supposed to be sung.

And start singing it. Because it was disrespecting the Negroes. I would like to call it— [sings] “Look away, you have / And I wish I was in Dixie / Run away”—

	L:	Was it Dixie song?



	W:	I think that’s what it was. [sings] “Way down South where I was born / Everyone danced in the morning / Look away, look away, look away, Dixieland. And I wish I was in Dixie, Hooray, hooray, And I wish I was in Dixie land, and the dun dun dun dun.” I don’t remember the title of it, but I believe that’s the song.

	L:	So, when you were teaching these—your first day of class you wanted them to sing a song, and then the White kids started singing “Dixie land?”

	W:	The boys especially. The boys, them big boys. [Laughter] Them big boys up there, because we were going up to eight grade, and it was some big boys in eighth grade!





L:   So how did you react?



	W:	Well I asked them to sing, and I told them I wasn’t going sing that song. I said, “Oh, you’re singing something else.” Trying to, “Hey, we singing Dixie! Why can’t we”—I think it was Dixie. And so, the principal was a Black principal. And so, I just, I said, “Well, I’ll just tell the principal that y’all don’t want to participate, that you don’t want to react.” And of course, it was really funny what he did. He came into class. And he came and asked them why they were doing—and I mean, he did it in a nice way—you know, why they didn’t want to do what I asked them to do. They wouldn’t tell him. They shut up and wouldn’t say nothing. He say, “Well I tell you what: I’m going out. And if she asks of you to sing this a song”—. No, “You sing what she tell you to sing. But if you don’t sing, I will whoop you until you sing every verse of Dixieland.” That was the only way to settle it. That’s the only reason they didn’t pressure me to do it.

	L:	Wow. So, what was your attitude? Did they change their attitude towards you as the time passed, or were they still—

W:  Yeah, they did. They did, they did. L:  They started to respect you more? W:  Yeah, mmhm.

L:   And did you treat them any differently?



	W:	No, I didn’t treat them any differently. I never do that. Children going to sass me [inaudible 1:34:26], I tried to get along in a nice way. And if I can’t, I’ll report them to the class, and I’m through with it. And not a thing was said about it. So, whatever the Principal decide they get to do, they do that, and then that’s a good





way. No, I never did take reaction against students. Never did. I just—my husband talked, “You so scared, you so—.” I say, “I’m not scared; I try to be intelligent.” What’s the use of going to school, and going to college, and trying to learn how to do things the right way, and you going turn around and be foolish? It doesn’t make sense.

	L:	So, you taught for forty-three years? Do you remember your retirement? Did they have a party for you?

	W:	No, the school gave me a little program—for all the teachers that retired that year. I got my picture out there, they had a—the accountant always had a little something for them in the school. And they was going on, just like you and I, talking about things that happened, and how they regret you going, and all that kind of stuff. And they had that for me.

	L:	Well I think I’ve taken up so much of your time; I really appreciate you talking to me. This has been.

	W:	[Inaudible 1:35:55] L:	Pardon me?

	W:	Don’t play all that stuff! [Laughter]



	L:	Oh. Well, we’ll talk it about now, so I’ll go over this form. U1:	Excuse me.

	L:	Hello. Let me just stop that. [Break in recording]

	L:	I interviewed Thelma Welch, her maiden name was Glover. And she was born in 1918 in Richland, Georgia, to poor family; they were sharefarmers, and the father





was killed in a sharecrop—in an accident with a tree. She moved after her father’s death at age six to Gainesville, Florida, where she lived with her mother’s niece. And so, this woman to care of her. She had a store in Gainesville, and she took care of Thelma. Thelma went to Lincoln High School and graduated in 1934. She moved—she won a scholarship, a speech competition, which gave her any access to go wherever she wanted, and the subject of the speech was something about Negro improvement, how Negroes have bettered life in America. She had learned to play music while she was still in Richland, and then her aunt taught her—or continued to teach her, or, yeah; whoever. Her cousin who took care of her, Fanny was her name. She ended up learning music and piano, and was very, very good at it. And ended up falling in love with music, became a music teacher. So, when she got the scholarship, when she won this award, a newspaper in Jacksonville allowed her to go to whatever school she wanted. And Fanny chose Mary McCleod Bethune’s college, which was a teacher training college at the time. And she then went there for a year and had a wonderful experience, and then transferred to Florida A&M College, where she graduated with a teaching certificate after two years. Then she started immediately after that teaching at Alachua. And she started doing her four-year degree at the same time by going to school in the summers, so she finished her four-year degree in Music Education, and then she decided to start with her master’s, and she ended up getting her master’s in 1959 from Ohio State University. Chose not to go to Florida because they only had an option to do distance education. She taught at Mebane; she remembers integration as having occurred around 1956. And she





taught at the middle school when it was an integrated school. She retired in 1979 after forty-three years of teaching, and she’s currently ninety-two years old. She also talked about how hard it was being poor, and her desire to help children— poor children—and how everybody stuck together during the education years.

So, those are some of the highlights. [End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, November 3, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019