AAHP 183; Nichols; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 183 Leitha Louise Nichols African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on January 9, 2009 1 hour, 7 minutes | 38 pages



Abstract: Leitha Nichols begins this interview with the story of a young Black girl who was abducted and murdered in her hometown of Palatka when Ms. Nichols was also a child. She then continues on to talk about life in Palatka when she was growing up, including her educational experiences at Central Academy High School and the mentors she had there. Her father was from Ocala and worked in a sawmill. Ms. Nichols also talks about the family’s self-sufficiency due to the wide variety of crops her grandmother raised, and the work that went into taking care of all of those crops and their livestock.

She relates moving to live with family in Philadelphia in 1941, and then moving to Detroit in 1942 to work as a riveter at Chrysler. She also offers reflections on a variety of historical events as she experienced them.





[Keywords: African American History; Putnam County, Florida; Alachua County, Florida]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 183

Interviewee: Leitha Nichols Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: January 9, 2009



N:  —find, my Lord. And my grandfather, if it was raining, he’d meet us in the wagon, for, you know, for us to have a coat to go over us, where we wouldn’t get sick.

Yes! He would meet us down the road, and meet us. And we had to walk. We’d go straight down the railroad. And we went the railroad until one girl—and I can’t remember her name—was killed down there. Somebody killed her.

	W:	What happened?



	N:	She was, had stopped at a store, to get her sisters some washing powder to wash with. Because they lived out in the country. And our church and we would go out there near Christmastime to practice. And she say, “I can’t wait for y’all today because I got to take care of”—Perline, Perlinie—she says, “some washing powder, so I’m going on.” But nobody figured nothing would happen. So we thought she’d gone on. Because I wasn’t going, because Momma said I had something else to do. “You’ll just have to miss.” So, but another lady, she was behind her. Now, she says she seen Pearly—her name was Pearly, Perline— when she—you know, the railroad got a curve in it. She missed her, and after she turned the curve, she didn’t see her. But after she got around the curve, and straight down the curve, she looked down the road, and says she didn’t see her. So my mother said to her, “Well, Miss Polly, why didn’t you tell somebody?” She said, “I thought that she went up”—there was a guy that live up there on the golf link, this golf link and a house—say, “I thought she was up there maybe talking to Fred or something.” My momma say, “That doesn’t make sense. And you missing the girl ahead of you, and then telling her sister and them—.” And we





always walk on, the every one of us would walk on one side of the railroad. You never walk on that other side, when we going to Lundy. But if they have, somebody had to walk on the other side, they would have seen this girl’ books. Laying where she laid them down and they going down the hill slantways. But they didn’t find that until the next day. And the man that take care of they pool, the waterworks, he said that he heard a gun shoot twice about two o’clock in the morning. So. The police finally, when some one of them walked on the other side, found the books. And they went seeing where the tracks went down, and they said it was two men beside her, seeing her track and two men’ track. And where they found, or where they smoked the pipes and some rolled cigarettes. And they shot her. Done what they wanted to do to her, and then shot her.

	W:	Because she was by herself. N:	By herself. Yes.

	W:	This is January 19, 2009, at the home of Miss Leitha L. Nichols, 2419 NE 8th Avenue in Gainesville, Florida, Marna Weston recording for the University of Florida Sam Proctor Oral History Program. Miss Nichols, thank you very much for allowing me to come to your home and talk to you today.

	N:	Well, I’m glad to have you.



	W:	That was just a fascinating story to start with, so I didn’t want to interrupt you. I just wanted to let you tell the story about what happened to Perline. Do you remember Perline’s last name?





	N:	No. I can’t. That’s been—we was children. That’s been so long, I don’t. But her parents was a Pearce, her sister was a Pearce, she married to a Reverend Pearce. He was a Methodist preacher.

	W:	Now, was that here in Alachua County, or was that somewhere else?



	N:	No, this was in Putnam County. Palatka. You ever heard talk of Palatka?



	W:	Yes Ma’am, I’ve been there a couple of times. And even, I haven’t been down there, but the cutoff to Johnson. I haven’t gone over that way, but I know where that is.

	N:	You know where Johnson is. W:	Yes, Ma’am.

	N:	Oh, yeah.



	W:	Now, Miss Nichols, would you please tell me your name from birth, your maiden name? And spell it, please.

	N:	My baby name is Leitha, L-E-I-T-H-A, Louise, L-O-U-I-S-E, Nichols, N-I-C-H-O-L- S.

	W:	All right, and what is your date of birth? N:	The third, twenty-six, nineteen.

	W:	And where were you born? N:	Palatka, Florida.

	W:	Is your whole family from Palatka? Is that where you began your journey in Florida, you were born in Palatka ‘cause your family was there?

	N:	Yes. My grandparents, my great-grandparents. Not all, but I didn’t remember my great-grand. But my mother always told me about them.





	W:	Who were your mother and father?



	N:	My mother was Elmore Nichols. She was a Shannon before she was a Nichols.



Elmore Shannon.



	W:	E-L-M-O?



	N:	E-L-M-O-R-E, Elmore.



	W:	And your dad?



	N:	Was Henry Nichols. And he was originally born in, I think—oh, I can’t think of it now. It go from me. But all his people were in Ocala.

	W:	Okay, how about his mother and father, your grandparents?



	N:	Don’t know nothing about them. But my name Leitha was named after my daddy’s mother.

	W:	Her name was Leitha as well.



	N:	Her name was Leitha. But my Louise is from my mother’s mother. They give me both for my name.

	W:	One from each one. N:	One from each one.

	W:	That’s marvelous. What is your earliest memory of school? Where did you first go to school?

	N:	At Central Academy.



	W:	And where is Central Academy? In Palatka? N:	In Palatka.

	W:	Okay. And was that grades one ‘til you’re done, or how did it, was it elementary school?





	N:	First we went to a little kindergarten. A little school like the little children go now. And from the big school, we was across from the big school. And after I think in the fifth grade, when we got in first grade—no, they kept us there in first grade. And second. I think we went up to the big school when we was in third grade, we went to the big school. And I stayed there in school until I finished. And I hate to say the year I was finished, 1939. [Laughter]

	W:	1939. Who was your favorite teacher at Central?



	N:	Oh, Lord! I had two favorite teacher: Ms. Marjorie Hines, and Rosalee Ragsdale. W:	And what subjects did they teach?

	N:	Miss Hines, she had me until sixth grade. She taught all the subjects. But after I got out of sixth grade, I had Rosalee—she became a Ragsdale, but she used to be a Kennebrew before she got married. She married twice. Her first husband died, and she was a Days when she got married the second time, but she finally met a fellow who was in service. And she was Rosalee Ragsdale. I’m telling you, you’ve got me thinking way back trying to think of this stuff! [Laughter]

	W:	Well, it’s a good journey for me as well. I’m glad to share it with you.



	N:	It’s so far. But my daddy originally come, and my mother met him, he had come to Palatka from Ocala. His dad raise him over there. He always called him his bear.

	W:	Why did he come to Palatka? N:	He was working.

	W:	Okay, and what was he doing?





	N:	On the saw—he working in the woods. When they drill in, getting logs out of the swamps.

	W:	Turpentine trees and all that? N:	Yes.

	W:	Pulpwood?



	N:	They was going—it wasn’t the pulpwood, because it had a sawmill. Wilson Mill they call it, in Palatka. And he was a cook. And he cook for the fellows that snake them logs out.

	W:	Were most of the workers African Americans?



	N:	Yes. You know that, during that time. But you see more White driving public trucks now than you ever seen in your life. Then they find out money was in it, then they wanted to do it. Have you ever noticed them, doing lawns? During my time, you didn’t see a White man pushing a lawn mower. Blacks always done that. But you find now they cleaning yards.

	W:	Well now it’s not “mowing lawns,” it’s “landscaping.” N:	Oh, that’s what you call it?

	W:	Yes Ma’am. We put a title to it now. [Laughter] It’s a profession!



	N:	[Laughter] Yeah, you got something there, I guess so! Well, honey, I know my cousins, my aunt’s boys, they always pulp wood, they called it. And one of them, Doc, the one called Doc, he used to always cut down the logs, the trees, you know, that they was going to trim them up. And the next news we knew, that same White man that he used to do that for got a White man, and the one that drive he got a White man to do the driving.





	W:	This is the Wilson?



	N:	Going to Wilson, uh-huh.



	W:	Do you have brothers and sisters?



	N:	Yes! Well, my brothers passed. I’ve got one sister.



	W:	Well, from all when you were growing up, how many total brothers and sisters did you have?

	N:	Oh, it was only one brother and one sister. I was the oldest of all. W:	And what were their names?

	N:	Martha. We called her “Sweet Rolls,” and my brother was named Thomas. W:	And when were they born?

	N:	My brother was born in 1925. And my sister was born in [19]32.



	W:	Okay. So did you have cousins as well? Did you have a big extended family in Palatka?

	N:	Well, I had cousins, yes! I had cousins that live across from us. But sometimes I had to go to school my myself all the time, because they dad was keep them out doing work. In the field, they’d be plowing, and then different thing, and they couldn’t go. So I’d have to walk them five miles by myself. Every morning.

	W:	Did you feel… why did your parents feel it was important for you to go to school when your cousins, they worked instead for their dad?

	N:	Well, my mother tried to talk with their dad about that. But he said he needed them to help him get the work done. She went over with them. Because his son, his name was Henry Nathan—same as my daddy’ name, Henry. But he said, “I need them to help me.” They didn’t have a mother because their mother died





with one of her kids in childbirth. And they had a grandmother, but he didn’t pay her no attention, or nothin’. But that oldest girl, Minnie, older than me, the only way she got away and got to school was when she left home. She runned away from home, and went up on the season. And she was smart enough to get with somebody that cared enough to help her. It is something. A lot of people just got a heart to try to help you. And helped her.

	W:	Now, those were tough times. You were talking about 1939 when you got out of school, so that was what we call the Depression now.

	N:	That was!



	W:	What was that like?



	N:	In 1939, that was my year that I graduated. Yes Sir. So I was, what do we call looking to, when I got out of school, you can forget about trying to go to college. The principal, his name was Pope, let me work at the school after I got out. To try to make some money, then I helped my mom and them with my brother and sister, go to school.

	W:	Now, before 1939, with your family, what was it like as far as, what did you all eat? What was happening? Did you grow your own food?

	N:	Honey, we growed everything that was growable. You know, my grandmother— we lived by my grandmother, with my grandmother. My grandmother used to can peas, during pea season, plenty peas. Tomatoes. She canned a lot of things.

And we wasn’t worried about food.



	W:	Did you learn to can as well?





	N:	No, I didn’t learn—yeah, I can do like she done before she got her cooker. She took out, she used to boil them in a pot, and then jar them in these mason jars. I know how to do that. But I used to have to churn the butter.

	W:	Ah, okay. So you didn’t shake up the butter in the glass. Y’all actually churned the butter.

N:  We had a churn. I didn’t shake it. We churned. And I finally learned to do the butter like she used to do, wrench it and whatnot. You know about that, too? [Laughter]

W:   Oh, yes Ma’am. Country is as country does, you know? [Laughter]



	N:	Oh, yes! And when we had to go out and hoe, you know, I had my little hoe, and I had my chores to do, too. I had… See, we pull corn when the corn got ripe to pull—

	W:	In the summer time.



	N:	Yeah, then put it in the barn for the horse and chickens and the cows. W:	And would the hogs eat the cobs?

	N:	Eat the corn off the cobs! See, but I had, papa had a mill, and put different bits in there. I had to turn it up for the biddies. Because it’s different size for the little biddies, and the next size biddies. And the chickens could eat the corn. But the biddies couldn’t eat it. And I had to keep that can full. Every day. Oh, you had chores to do! You hadn’t got it like these children now, look at they feet, look around and do nothing. You had something to do, baby! And in the afternoons, it was my job to feed the chickens. Oh, yeah! “Go out there and feed the chickens. And give them biddies they feed out there, too, ‘Weez!” Because my





grandmother always called me Weez, she never said “Louise.” Weez. So I had to do that. Keep each one of them cans full for the little biddies, and the bigger-size biddies that couldn’t eat that corn. And she would always… And chicken! Oh, Lord have mercy, I don’t think I’ve ever had enough of fried chicken. And chicken and dumplings. Stewed chicken. Baked chicken. Any kind of way you want it. We had plenty chickens. And the guineas. You ever tried to follow them crazy things and see where they lay at?

	W:	[Laughter]



	N:	You didn’t? Y’all didn’t have guineas?



	W:	Uh, you’re talking about the medium-sized chicken that you bake?



	N:	No, it’s a guinea. It’s a chicken you call a guinea. She—it’s a he and a she—she lays out in the woods. She don’t want you to… And once you put your hand in her nest, she ain’t going back there. She going somewheres else. So when we would find a nest, my momma would get a spoon and rake the eggs out. You’d see them things come up with biddies. You didn’t know where the nest was, they’d come up with their own chicks. Yes, them was some times! We had turkeys. We had all kind of chicken. But papa, every year—I never forget—he would always get a wild turkey for us for Thanksgiving. That’s when we had the wild turkey. But now, regular turkeys, we had them on the yard. Ducks.

	W:	So you had plenty to eat.



	N:	Plenty to eat. Garden here. My grandmother had her own garden. W:	Spring and a fall garden?

	N:	Spring and fall, and going through the summer. You know that?





	W:	Plenty of greens in the summertime. N:	Yes! Yes, indeed!

	W:	Now what kinds of greens did you have in your different gardens?



	N:	Oh, oh, we had… Now rutabagas come in the springtime. I used to love eating them rutabagas.

	W:	I love rutabagas now. They’re good.



	N:	I bake them. Good! But see, momma would get the young ones, the small roots, to cook, top and all. Oh, and they’d be so good! And some of that old meat out at that smokehouse! [Laughter]

	W:	So you smoked meat, too.



	N:	Oh, my grandfather, he was a good smoker, he would—



	W:	Slaughtered the hogs, and riddled the guts for the chitterlings and everything.



	N:	Oh, I know how to do that, child, because I learned to do that! [Laughter] And I love chitterlings today! I had some for New Year’s. Yes.

	W:	Did you have your collard greens and the black-eyed peas as well?



	N:	We had black-eyed peas, but we had mustard greens. You know, it’s a funny thing. They don’t want you—since I’m on dialysis, they say colors are not good for peoples on dialysis. I’ve learned that. They’ve told me so many things since I’ve been on dialysis. I didn’t know. They say collard greens is one of the worst things there is. They give me a paper, this things you could eat. And so many things that you love, you can’t eat.

	W:	No collards.





	N:	No collard greens. You need cabbage? Can’t eat those much more, and I love cabbage, too. We grow cabbage. We just, I don’t know what it was we didn’t grow. We had our own cane. We made our own syrup.

	W:	With the grinder and everything? The big pot, and the boiler?



	N:	Yes! The cane, and make syrup. We had our own boiler. And papa had the mill to grind the cane, had the horse to go around. And I was the feeder. That was my job, to feed the—. [Laughter] Wasn’t no boy. My brother hadn’t come home. So I had to feed the mill.

	W:	When you say your brother hadn’t come home, I guess he was at the war? N:	No, he hadn’t come along.

	W:	Oh, he hadn’t come along yet. N:	I’m older than he was.

	W:	That’s right. Okay.



	N:	See, I’m thirteen years older than my sister. And I’m six years and something older than my brother.

	W:	So you were your own child for a long time.



	N:	Uh-huh, long time. And I was the only child. And I didn’t know what they need with another ones!

	W:	[Laughter] Do you remember when World War II came, what you were doing?



Pearl Harbor?



N:  I was in Indiana, Pennsylvania, coming from a club. And my boyfriend, which was Dan Johnson, turned on the radio. Wasn’t no TVs in those days. Turned the radio on. And the man stops to pronounce that Pearl Harbor had been bombed. And





boy! And so when we got back around two o’clock in the morning, two, we got back, we woke the people up in their little settlement. Because most everybody around there was coal miners. And we been over to Johnstown, Pennsylvania.

	W:	Okay, I’ve heard of Johnstown, Pennsylvania. That’s where there was the big flood, right?

	N:	Yes, big flood. There was that. And I had, we had some friends over there. And we went over there to the club, and coming back he turned the radio on. And I don’t care one thing about Danny. I don’t care where we went, how late he, how—. His daddy was a Methodist preacher. He was not going to miss carrying back that shirt that Sunday morning. That’s right! He said, “I’ll see you maybe tonight, after I get the old man back home.”

	W:	How did you end up from Palatka in 1939, to up in Pennsylvania in 1941?



	N:	I didn’t leave, in [19]41 I left and went up there. I left Palatka—after school, I went to Jacksonville. And I wound up from Jacksonville up in Pennsylvania.

	W:	You took the bus?



	N:	Yep, a friend of mine, we took the bus. W:	Was it family that made—

	N:	No, she had some family up there. And we went up there. And in [19]42, we left.



She had family in Detroit, and went to Detroit, and went to work in the factory. Her name Dorothy Toy.

	W:	T-O-Y?



	N:	Mmhm. So I left her in Detroit. Because my mother had took sick, my brother going in the service. And he told me, he says, “Sister, I think you need to come





home, because momma’s very sick, and you the oldest.” So then I drop everything and come home to stay with my mother. And then I stayed home.

	W:	Did your mother ever recover from the illness? N:	Yes. But I lost my mother in [19]76.

	W:	I’m very sorry.



	N:	Yes. In 1976, in February. Valentine’s night. I just couldn’t get over it. But I was in Miami when that happened.

	W:	Was it, was she suddenly taken ill, or had she not been well for a while, or…?



	N:	No, she had a heart attack. I’ve had two. I had my first one in [19]91, and next one since I’ve been here in Gainesville. Oh, thank you. Thank you.

	W:	Oh, no, we can talk about it. Her shake has just arrived. It’s all history! [Laughter] Is it good?

	N:	Yes! Good!



	W:	And what flavor is that? N:	Vanilla.

	W:	Ah. Is vanilla your favorite flavor?



	N:	I like vanilla and I like chocolate. I like both of them.



	W:	I like them both. Sometimes I like vanilla ice cream with chocolate syrup on it.



Sometimes just vanilla by itself. But chocolate’s my favorite. N:  Chocolate’s your favorite? I think we all love chocolate, too. W:  It’s hard not to like it. Chocolate and chicken. [Laughter]

N:  Oh, my momma used to make the best chocolate cakes, for us! W:  Now, did you bake as well?





	N:	I baked for my two. But I’m not able to bake like I used to.



	W:	So you came home in [19]42 because your mother wasn’t well, and your brother went to the service.

	N:	No, I didn’t come home until [19]46.



	W:	Oh, I thought you left Detroit because your mother wasn’t well. N:	That was in [19]46.

	W:	Oh, [19]46, okay.



	N:	Because I worked in the factory while I was in Detroit.



	W:	So that’s what you did during the war, you worked in the factory. And what kind of work did you do in the factory?

	N:	A riveter.



	W:	A riveter? Wow.



	N:	See, they needed women because the men were going to war. And they needed women to make those airplane wings.

	W:	So you riveted airplane wings?



	N:	Yes. In Detroit. At Chrysler Motor factory.



	W:	What made you good at riveting? Why did you do that?



	N:	We had a school we had to go to. You go there, you put in for—they was asking for women to come. That’s why we left Pennsylvania and went to Detroit.

Because one of her cousin had called and told her, “Girl, come on over here ‘cause they need women to go in the factory.” And she told me, and said, “Leitha, let’s go.”

	W:	So Leitha the Riveter. [Laughter]





	N:	Yes, Sir. And Dorothy.



	W:	Now, how long did you do that? [To server: Oh, I’m still good, thank you.] N:	We done that until they put us out the factory.

	W:	Now how’d that happen? So you did a good job, and then when the war was over, they said, “That’s it, nothing else?”

	N:	The men was coming back home, and they figured that was a man’s job. But they need women while the men was in war fighting for us. When them men come back, they started to putting us out of the factory.

	W:	Well, that wasn’t right.



	N:	Well, what do they care about right? Huh? W:	True.

	N:	It’s right now. These White folks, when they get ready to do something, they don’t care about right. That still goes on now, right here in Gainesville. [Chuckles]

	W:	So did you ever have a job like that again, where you were working in a machine- type, you know, in a man’s job? That seems like a really—like you had to learn a lot to do that job. You couldn’t just go off the street and do it.

	N:	I had to learn. See, they had little squares. Little square mills, and they put it between a device. And you had to have a drill. And we would drill—and they wanted you to drill right where they had crossed, drawn a line and crossed there. We had to learn—that was the hardest thing for me to learn in my life. Because I could not—I thought I’d be on this, in the dot, and I’d be just up to the dot. So, one Black guy was showing me. But he didn’t take the time to show me like this White guy did. He says, know when you’re doing to get the dots, you go up a little





above where you putting it at. And he showing me, and then I begin to make them dots.

	W:	So was it mostly women that worked there, and just a couple men supervising?



	N:	It was mostly women. And it was some men that was working with the paint and stuff, what color they want to paint the wings. I think it was green. No, it wasn’t green, it was a brownish-greenish looking paint they was doing those airplanes. It was a lot of women was out of work when that happened after the boys was coming home.

	W:	So what did the women do for the men when there weren’t no men, it was just all women.

	N:	Huh?



	W:	What did the women do for men?



	N:	[Laughter] They find something somewhere! W:	[Laughter] So they did all right.

	N:	They did all right for theyself. Some of them was old along, and some of them was younger. But some of them women would start to go with younger boys. Which was no good.

	W:	So what did you do after you left the factory?



	N:	Well, I got a job working at a furniture store. Dusting furniture going up in the warehouse, furniture that they had to carry out. And that’s in [19]47.

	W:	Was that also in Detroit?



	N:	Yes, in Detroit. And [19]47 is when my brother got out the service and went home. Because he went in in [19]43.







W:

Did you all write to each other while he was away?

N:

Oh yes. We stay in touch with each other.

W:

Did you save any of the letters?

N:

No, I don’t think I saved many of his letters. But he come home from



Pennsylvania, here, and then he went on to Palatka. We buried him about two



years ago.

W:

I’m so very sorry.

N:

Uh-huh.

W:

Did he have a family on his own?

N:

No.

W:

Okay, so just him?

N:

He never did get married.

W:

Okay.

N:

He never got married. [Looking at TV?] I enjoyed that yesterday.

W:

That was a nice show, wasn’t it?

N:

It was beautiful.

W:

I saw it on HBO.

N:

You did see it too?

W:

Oh yes. I had a good friend in Paris that couldn’t see it, so I got on my computer



and I set up a camera, and I broadcast it so they could see it over in Paris.

N:

Oh, how nice! It was beautiful.

W:

Yeah, these computers and things, they really help out, don’t they? [Laughter]





	N:	I’ll tell you, honey, these things are something else! Garth Brooks there, and I think our President was enjoying it, too.

	W:	Oh yeah, the girls got up and they danced a little bit, and he was singing along.



We’re talking about the Lincoln Memorial show on HBO for Barack Obama yesterday, and they had all kinds of stars. They had Shakira, they had Pete Seeger, they had Jon Bon Jovi, they had Beyonce, they had Stevie Wonder, they had Usher. Yeah, everybody was on the show. It was a really good show, very well done.

	N:	That—I was just amazed.



	W:	I’d like to just talk. What do you think about this Barack Obama thing? He’s going to be the President tomorrow at noon.

	N:	Boy, I am so thrilled. [Laughter] I’m tell you, I never thought I’d see something like this happen. But it’s amazing. God is good! You know, the one thing, I wish my parents could have stayed to see this.

	W:	I’m really excited about it for my parents, too. More than me, for them. Sitting in the back of the bus, and having to get off the sidewalk, and all that stuff that they endured to get to be the age that they are.

	N:	Yes!



	W:	It’s amazing for me. You know, they always raised us knowing about it. You know, my parents, we had the books: David Walker’s Appeal, and Angela Davis, and the Soledad brothers in prison. We were raised on that stuff, but you lived it, my parents lived it, and I know you’re excited about it because the TV probably





hasn’t gone off since it got started. When I was at this gentleman’s house, same thing, he had the TV on the whole time. [Laughter]

	N:	And then I would, I like to, since I’ve been home, see some of Martin Luther King.



I can’t forget him, either.



	W:	Well, this was his day. This was the day… N:	This was his day!

	W:	Do you remember where you were when you found out he had been killed?



	N:	I had been to the beauty parlor. My husband and I had a little shop. And we ran this little shop when he—I would mostly take care of the—. But he’d come in and, you know, anything need to be done around there, he would do it. And I had the radio on. And when they pronounced that, I hollered. He said, “what’s wrong with you?” I said, “look, listen listen listen!” You know. “Come, come, listen!” And he come out there. He was inside the shop. And I hollered. I pulled right in front of the door and just screamed when I heard that. And he come and listen. And I told him, just listen. I looked like I was out of breath. I couldn’t talk. The thing just shocked me so. It just shocked me. But I’ll never forget. There’s a lady. My mother and this lady used to go out in the woods picking berries. You know, you ever pick berries?

	W:	Oh, yes Ma’am.



	N:	Used to go picking berries there.



	W:	You got to know what’s good, though. You can’t just pick any kind of berry.



	N:	No. But you know the good berry to pick. The blueberries, the huckleberries, the blackberries.





	W:	The birds show you a lot, too. N:	Oh, yeah. [Laughter]

	W:	Just watch what they eat! [Laughter]



	N:	And she heard him speak one time. She was by our house and had the TV on.



And she told me, she said, “This is one brilliant Black man!” She say, “Yes he is!” She say, “Oh, Lord, honey, he talks too straight for the people. They ain’t going to let him live.” Momma said, “why would you say that?” Her name was Miss Gee. She said, “Because that man, he’s too straight with them, and tell things truthful like it’s supposed to be told!” And that’s the first thing coming to my mind after I had heard that he got killed. I said, this woman, ain’t been three weeks, hardly, she tell my momma that.

	W:	Were you in Detroit when it happened? N:	No, I was home!

	W:	So you were in Palatka. N:	I was in Palatka.

	W:	Well you know, in a lot of the big cities, the people rioted when they heard what happened. What happened in Palatka?

	N:	Honey, they wasn’t going to riot there, because them White folks was all ready with the guns.

	W:	When they heard about it?



	N:	Uh-huh. What they was saying, you know what they was saying: “There’s just another nigger gone.” That’s what they was saying. They didn’t care.





	W:	Do you think if he had lived, the war maybe would have stopped or something like that? Is that what—what do you think it was that led to him being killed?

	N:	They just didn’t like the truth he was doing! What he was doing, trying to help the people. They didn’t like it. They didn’t want the Blacks to get no help. And he, in other words, “That nigger know too much, saying too much. We’ll get rid of him.” And I just, the thing just got me. I never will forget that. And that’s what it got me too, with Malcolm X, the way they done him!

	W:	February 21, 1965. Now, where were you when you heard about Malcolm X? N:	Oh, I was married then. I guess. well, my oldest daughter was born in [19]54.

And my youngest was born in [19]56. So I was still in Orange Mill. I lived in a little place called Orange Mill.

	W:	Okay. Is that by Hastings?



	N:	A little before you get to Hastings. A little before you get to Hastings on your way in to St. Augustine.

	W:	So, east of East Palatka, but on that same road, like going toward Fruit Cove and all that in there? Fruit Cove? It might not have had a name back then. But World Golf Village is in between where you’re talking about and St. Augustine. There’s some riding between there and the interstate. The roads are probably a little bit different.

	N:	Now, we used to go on 207. But if we was going to the beach, it was a road off of



	207. I can’t remember what’s— W:	17? A1A?

	N:	No, 17 is going through Palatka, going into Jacksonville.





	W:	What you’re talking about is east of there. N:	East of there.

	W:	And Orange Mill is north of Hastings.



	N:	Yes. Or, west of Hastings, you’d call it. ‘Cause when you leave out of Palatka, you go through east Palatka. Then if you going into Hastings, you go hean on through. Go on through Hastings, on to St. Augustine. You go east. And if we going to Daytona, we’d go another route. Go 17, peace and turn, go to Daytona. But I’m trying to think of—now a place in between there is Armstrong, a place you call Armstrong. After you leave Hastings.

	W:	Is that south of Hastings, or north of Hastings?



	N:	It would be east of Hastings. My girlfriend Michelle’s aunt used to live over there, and her two sons. I know John, oldest boy, he got drowned working on a boat, the ensign of a seaman. Had a pair of boots on, just fell overboard some kind of way. Got drowned right at the dock. They done come in, made a whole surround. And they say he still had his boots on. I don’t guess he, well, I guess that put the weight for him to go.

	W:	They weighed him down, he couldn’t get up.



N:  Couldn’t get up. And the other brother was a principal. He would go inside the schools. But I don’t know what happened to him. But I know his sister left him with a hire. Eva, my girlfriend told me she died up there.

	W:	I had asked you about Malcolm X, but I want to back up a little bit, just because you talked about [19]54 and [19]56. Did you hear about Emmett Till, when he was killed? Was that something that you heard about?





	N:	The young boy?



	W:	From Mississippi. Yes, Ma’am. N:	Yes.

	W:	So there was a lot of talk about that then, I guess.



	N:	Oh yes. We talked about that. And you know, we used to get, we used to see—. You wouldn’t see nothing like that in the paper in Palatka. But the only way we’d know about a thing like that, you’d get the Pittsburgh Courier. Remember? Do you remember that?

	W:	Yes, Ma’am. Or the Baltimore African American, or the Chicago Defender? N:	No, we didn’t get none of that.

	W:	But you got the Pittsburgh Courier.



	N:	But that Pittsburgh Courier, that’s where we got our news from about what happened.

	W:	So if you were Black, you didn’t pay any attention to the White newspapers. N:	No. I just didn’t buy them.

	W:	You want to know what happened, go to the Pittsburgh Courier. N:	Yeah. [Laughter]

W:  My dad tells me the same thing. He says, if it wasn’t the Chicago Defender or the Pittsburgh Courier, they didn’t really pay much attention to it. I mean, it was local, but it wasn’t what was going on.

	N:	No. And they wasn’t going to put nothing in the paper about what happened, and what they done. Look at this little boy they killed out of Chicago. What could he do? Now, that’s a shame.





	W:	But at least you heard about it through the Black newspapers. So how did those newspapers, everybody subscribe to those? Everybody subscribe to the Pittsburgh Courier.

	N:	Yeah! We always get the Pittsburgh Courier. It was, I’m trying to think now, who was it used to get them in so we could get it? It was a Black fellow used to have them sent. He rolled them and they would come in every week, we would get them.

	W:	So did they come in through the Post Office, or did they come in through somebody else?

	N:	They come in, must have come in through the Post Office.



	W:	We talked about Martin Luther King. What about Bobby Kennedy? He was killed two months later. Was that also something that a lot of people paid attention to?

	N:	Bobby Kennedy? Oh, yes. You know they did! Now, the White paper had that in there, in their paper. ‘Cause it’s a Black boy, he worked at that. Ever since he was a young boy, he was grown and married, he was still working at the Palatka Daily News. His name was Leroy Wiggins. He died from there. And he told us about that. And he the one would tell us, you’d do better getting the Black paper instead of trying, ‘cause they ain’t going to put no news in that for you to read about where something happened to the Black. Name Leroy Wiggins.

	W:	When did you come to Gainesville, Miss Nichols?



	N:	Oh, since I left Miami, and come up here. It was [19]69. W:	Okay. What was Gainesville like in 1969?





	N:	Wasn’t many people here then as there was now. Best I can tell you one thing. I rung. I was over to my sister’s, she had a knee—. [tapping]

W:   Operation?



N:  Uh-huh. And I was home for her to, so she recuperate. And after she got better, I said, “you know what? I’m tired of sitting here looking at you, and I know you tired of sitting looking at me.” I said, I miss working. Because I just had retired from my job in Miami at the library.

W:  Oh, so you worked for the library. N:  Yeah. Seventeen years.

W:   Okay, for the public library?



	N:	Yes. Miami-Dade Library. And I loved that library when it was down on the water. But when they took and moved it up further uptown, I hated that place. You know what I mean? No windows, you couldn’t see nothing, and the view of the water was just beautiful. And we used to walk down, at lunchtime, walk down to the water.

	W:	What did you do at the library?



	N:	I was the mail carrier. Delivering the mail. And I had to serve the board, whenever we had board meetings, or any other meeting they had.

	W:	Is this the Miami-Dade Community College library, or the city of Miami— N:	City of Miami.

	W:	Okay. And you were there for seventeen years.



N:  Worked there for seventeen years. And she wanted me to come home to be with her. Because she had had this knee transplant, a new knee, and I said, well you





wait until March. Because I wanted to get my business finished. And I said, then I’ll come and be with you. Put the operation up in March. I said, because I’m going to retire, on January 1 of [19]69. I said, because I’m getting so, on this job, I’m getting so I don’t want to get up in the morning. I know it’s time for me to retire. [Laughter]

	W:	So you left Miami, where there was lots of stuff to do, and came to Gainesville.



And you found it to be small?



	N:	Yeah. I got, I got so sick of—you know what? The Cubans was bad enough. And then the Haitians come in. And I got so tired of Miami, I didn’t know what in the world to do. So at that time, Juanita used to be oldest they centers for the city. So I asked her—she come over to see us one day—I say, “Girl, you got any work I can do over there? Because I’m tired of looking at Rose, Rose tired of looking at me.” So she said, “I need somebody at a center I got there.” And she was the head of all these centers. You know, where the children go, play and whatnot?

And the one out on 34th?



	W:	Department of Children and Families? N:	Off of 8th Ave?

	W:	Yeah, it’s between Waldo Road and Main Street.



	N:	No, it’s off of 34th, because pushing up into it is 8th Avenue, too.



	W:	Oh, yeah, I’m thinking of the wrong direction. So at 34th and 8th right where the school is?





	N:	No. 34th and 8th where they play tennis at one corner there, and the center is over there at the building where the children go shoot pool and play basketball and whatnot.

	W:	Okay, where the park is? Okay, I know where you’re talking about. N:	Well anyway, she give me a job there.

	W:	So she was in Miami and she was able to get you that job, or she was here? N:	She was here, and I was in Palatka. I told you I was with my sister.

	W:	Okay, that makes sense. I apologize. I got a little confused, I’m sorry. [Laughter] N:	Oh, well, maybe I’m talking too fast.

	W:	Oh no, no, you’re telling a story. So you got the job at the center, and this is 1969, and you’re here in Gainesville—

	N:	I’ve been here ever since.



	W:	In what way has Gainesville changed from then to now?



	N:	More people. And a little more killing and going on. It’s just, it’s changed altogether.

	W:	Somebody was telling me there used to be a Black business district on 13th street, 441, but when they widened the road they got rid of a lot of those businesses.

	N:	It could be. I can’t remember that. Maybe I wasn’t here when that time was. W:	Well, what do you recall about the early [19]70s in Gainesville?

	N:	The [19]70s?



	W:	Yes, Ma’am. When you first got here.



	N:	I can’t remember. But I wasn’t here in the [19]70s.





	W:	Well, what is your earliest memory of Gainesville?



	N:	I’d better stop and think. I know I’ve been here twenty years. But it must have been [19]96, I got it mixed up.

	W:	[19]96, not [19]69?



	N:	Not [19]69. I don’t know where I got [19]69.



	W:	Well, we had been talking about Bobby Kennedy, and Martin Luther King. But okay. So [19]96. So what was your thought about Gainesville when you first came here in 1996?

	N:	Well, it was a nice little town. And everybody was very friendly where I worked at.



No problems. I didn’t think it was no problems, until not very long, it looked like more people. This place has grown up so dang funny. You can’t hardly go out on the street.

	W:	It’s true.



	N:	Than what it was when I first come here. No, goodness! W:	The prices of stuff have gone up everywhere.

	N:	The prices! A little jar of mayonnaise now cost you three dollars and some cent. W:	That’s true. [Laughter] And the gas was ridiculous a while back.

	N:	Oh my gosh, it was awful! Gas prices! Oh! They wasn’t wanting people— specially poor people—even ride.

	W:	Well, that’s what they got down to. People stopped driving, that’s why they lowered the price.

	N:	I don’t blame them. I’d have got a bicycle too!





	W:	[Laughter] So what do you think is the biggest challenge that Barack Obama is going to face here being President? Because there are a lot of things going on.

	N:	You know what? I’m just praying he’ll make it. They going to throw everything in the book at him. They been throwing it all the time. They been trying to find everything they can find, fault against him. And they still going to do it. And I don’t care what he do, there’s going to be somebody that still try to make him no good. They still going to do it.

	W:	Well, he has a beautiful wife, he has his kids, he’s got his family. N:	Yeah, he really has.

	W:	He’s been going to church. Of course, they said his preacher was crazy, but if you have any knowledge of the tradition of the Black church, you know that even if you agree with Rev. Wright or not, that’s just how you amp up the crowd. You try to use the antithesis to tell the story anyway. You don’t speak literally of what you’re talking about. You tell a lot of side stories. You try to get people to agree and disagree with you in the course of a sermon. That’s just how it is. But I thought that those videos on TV were going to do him in. Because I knew that people who haven’t been to that kind of a church wouldn’t understand what they were seeing.

	N:	Well, what kind of church was that?



	W:	It was just a large Black church in Chicago.



	N:	And he act a plum fool. Now I’m going to tell you what I think about it! W:	[Laughter] So you think it was a little over the top?





	N:	He was a plum fool. I said, when you ever seen a preacher act like that, and be so educated, and then they think he so great, other preachers was talking. I said, I never in my life heard talk of that! And the dumbest preacher I know wouldn’t have got up there and talk like that about it! [Laughter]

	W:	Did you see the White minister that they had who came up after—not at the same time, but they were showing just another minister in the same pulpit—and he was very flamboyant as well.

	N:	Yes, I did see another preacher come up there. But I didn’t like what he’s saying, and I couldn’t, I turned it somewheres else.

	W:	So you feel that Rev. Wright, it was not the appropriate messages that he was telling.

	N:	Unh-uh. I sure do.



	W:	Well now, do you think Barack Obama should have left the church?



	N:	Well no need in still saying that, and being accused and things he said. What in the world he want to say that for? I couldn’t have—because I know myself. I couldn’t have sit there and listened to him. He done me that way. I’d have run so far it wasn’t even funny.

	W:	Do you think that Barack Obama being president is going to be good for the United States?

	N:	I believe it is. It can’t be no worse than it has been! W:	You mean President Bush?

	N:	That’s right! [Laughter]





	W:	Well now, there are a lot of people who think that President Bush, he made mistakes, but that he led the country during a difficult time.

	N:	He’s a liar, he’s a big liar. And Bush was ain’t nothing but him and old Cheney, Bush and Cheney was in with this gas business, too. I would always change the channel on them. I was better off changing the channel. Bush and Cheney was in with that gas business. Getting their pockets, getting rich. More richer. They already rich, more richer. Mm-mm.

	W:	Do you think that there’s still a danger from this 9-11 and these kind of terrorist things?

	N:	I wouldn’t put nothing past them, not to even try, even now, to do him wrong. W:	Even though he’s reaching a hand out.

	N:	I’m not—don’t doubt that some of these crooks won’t try to hurt Obama now. I wouldn’t give him up.

	W:	So you think he has a difficult road.



	N:	Oh, they going to try something. I hope he stay just as cool just like he is. I like his method. He isn’t quick to get all fired up. ‘Cause if it’s me, I would [makes spitting noises], like a wind machine. You know, right?

	W:	[Laughter] Well, they said he has 80% approval. And that means there are more people for him now, that people who were against him and didn’t vote for him are for him now. Why do you think that is?

	N:	I just wonder. Because they know he mean what he saying. He’s going to try to do what he says. I do believe that. I believe it. And one thing I say about him, he got a wife to back him.





	W:	That’s true. They seem to be a good team, don’t they? N:	I’m telling you!

	W:	What kind of a First Lady do you think Michelle Obama will be?



	N:	Oh, an excellent First Lady. But she’s not going to be—they want somebody in there, they talk about how she dress, be a whole lot of airs putting on, but Michelle don’t put on and carry on like that. She’s not going to do that. If that’s what they looking for, they can forget it. She’s going to be a lady, Michelle, but she’s not going to be this airish mess that goes on, that they can put on.

	W:	Well, she’s brought her mom in to help her. N:	I don’t’ blame her.

	W:	Her mom is going to help with the little girls. So you think that’s a good idea? N:	Yes, that’s a good idea! Sure.

	W:	What do you think will be her issue? You know, every first lady has kind of an issue they deal with. Barbara Bush, it’s literacy. And I think Laura Bush did the same kind of thing. What kind of signature issue will Michelle Obama take on?

	N:	I think Michelle, she was doing a lot of things before she even got to where she is now. Michelle will just be a natural, be in place wherever they need her. That’s what she will do. If it’s fit for her. Wherever she’s needed, she’ll be placed there. Because she look like this type of person that doesn’t mind helping if you with the right thing. So she’ll do well, whatever she go after, or attempt to do. She’ll be well at it.

	W:	Do you see Barack and Michelle as leaders? N:	They already leaders.





	W:	What’s your definition of leadership? What makes a leader?



	N:	A leader’s somebody that can stay on a straight path theyself. You can’t lead me if you crooked as yourself. You no leader. And a leader is somebody that can stand and can tell you things, and they’re doing more than you are. They can point to which to go and what to do. See? But now, you can’t tell me to do nothing and you doing crooked things yourself.

	W:	So a leader leads by example.



	N:	That’s right. You don’t tell me one thing and you doing something else. You can’t lead me.

	W:	Well Ms. Nichols, I cannot tell you how much I’ve enjoyed this interview. There are so many things to ask you and to talk about. It’s impossible for us to do it all at one time. So I’d like to have the opportunity to come and speak to you again. But I’d also like to ask you, I like to close an interview just by allowing the person I’ve talked to, to speak freely on their own. Maybe there is something we didn’t talk about today that you would like to focus on, and you know, just let your thoughts flow, and at the point where you close your thoughts and you say what you want to say, we’ll conclude the interview there. But I’d like to give you that opportunity to just make your comments now.

	N:	Them and them two little girls. Well, I’ll tell you—oh, you missed that, Bush and them. That was Bush and Michelle there, Laura Bush and Michelle. I’ll think of something else after a while. But you’ll have to come to me at intervals. The old lady ain’t sharp no more, I can’t think of things no more, you’ll have to come to me at intervals. But I enjoyed meeting you, and to have the chance to talk with





you. And hoping you will come back one day and we can talk again. Just let me know when. That’s all. Thank you.

[End of recording]





	Audit-edited by:	Juanita Duque, December 7, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019