AAHP 519A; Imani; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 519A Nikitah Okenbe-Ra Imani Interviewed by Juliette Barbera on October 3, 2017

1 hour 12 minutes | 40 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Nikitah Okenbe-Ra Imani talks about his personal experiences while attending the University of Florida. Imani has three masters and a PHD from the University of Florida. While at UF, Imani was also involved with activism in the university particularly with the Institute for Black Culture and continuing to ensure their space was recognized as a space for people of color. He is also one of the founding members of the Loyal 99 and the experiences of being a member within the organization. At the time, White nationalist groups started to form around campus coupled with racially motivated attacks led to a lot of racial tension. Imani addresses how he countered the rising racial tensions.



Keywords:[African American History; Sociology; University of Florida; The Loyal 99; Institute of Black Culture]



AAHP 519A

Interviewee: Nikitah Okenbe-RA Imani Interviewer: Juliette Barbera

Date: October 3, 2017





	B:	So I’ll start off, Hello my name is Juliette Barbera with the Samuel Proctor Oral History program on October 3rd, 2017. I’m conducting a phone interview with…

	O:	Dr. Nikitah Okenbe- RA Imani



B:  Thank you for agreeing to interview with us Dr. Imani. So, I’ll just start off with some general questions about yourself and then get to more specific details about UF and your experience here. So, can you please spell your full name?

O:  Nikitah. N-I-K-I-T-A-H Okenbe-ra O-K-E-N-B-E hyphen R-A Imani I-M-A- N-I

	B:	Where and when were you born?



	O:	I was born July 29th, 1967 in Atlanta, Georgia. B:	What years did you attend UF?

	O:	I was at UF from 1989 and graduated in 1995.



	B:	How did you come to UF? What was that process like?



	O:	Well, I was interested in a reasonably close university. State universities were somewhat lower cost. I was looking for scholarships and grant opportunities. I applied to a number of universities and a number of different programs, and in the end I chose the University of Florida because it was geographically closer to my home in Atlanta and my parents. It was also, you know, at least in terms of that point in time, attractive in terms of the financial incentives it offered, because it was a





big factor, because my parents could not really afford my graduate education. And so, it was something that I was gonna have to kind of shoulder myself. And so I had to make sure that I ended up with a financial aid and economic package that made it viable for me in the short term and in the long term.

	B:	Okay, what was your graduate program in?



	O:	Well, I got three graduate degrees from the University of Florida. So, I started in the political science program, and I got a masters in political science. Then I transferred to sociology, and I got a masters and PHD in sociology.

	B:	What was it like as a graduate student attending at the University of Florida?

	O:	Well, academically I would say it was about what you expected. It was a very high level of instruction in education. I was very impressed with that. But part of what made me an activist and got me involved at UF and beyond UF on a personal level were some other challenges that you also face at large-scale state universities when you come from non-traditional student audiences. And you have a social and political context that affects that experience so I had some people who were encouraging me and pushing me academically, but I also had some obstacles as well. So, it was a mixed bag.

	B:	Okay, so what were some of these obstacles you mentioned that you were aware of when you were coming into the university?





	O:	I mean unfortunately, I mean there’s so many examples, but just one example was I had pretty much completed my masters instruction in political science and was at that time looking forward thinking about a PhD in that particular program. And the graduate coordinator for that particular program basically told me, “People like you don’t succeed in our graduate program,” and it was kind of obvious what he meant when he said, “People like you.” You know, and there were a number of other episodes where, like I said, it was obvious that the social tumult that was going on in the United States, and in the state of Florida, and everywhere at that time was also impacting the university and the relationships between faculty and students, and the relationships between students and the community, and the relationships between the university and the larger national context. So, it wasn’t in that sense unusual, but it just provided an additional challenge for someone who, especially with a background in political science and sociology where you’re deeply immersed in these issues, you’re probably hyper sensitive in terms of the larger structures of power when it comes to race and class and gender and so forth.

	B:	And then you mentioned the years 1989 and 1995, and you said you were involved in student activism. Do you want talk more about that? What got you started and how that was like?

	O:	Well, the literal event that got me started …I met, you know, probably my lifelong friend Dr. David Padgett who had that time was of course David Padgett, and we walked over to the student center at the time, and they





were having one of the agricultural festivals that they always have. And in this case it was the watermelon festival just by coincidence. And, so you have two people of African descent coming by to the watermelon festival and what they were doing was they were actually giving out pieces of watermelon, I guess for you to sample as they did with all the agricultural festivals in Florida. And so, when I came there, there was a young woman very, very engaging, very pleasant and she goes, “Do you want a whole one?” now, of course in mine I’m thinking a whole one meant “a whole piece,” and I couldn’t quite understand why would I not want a whole piece given that everyone else had a whole piece, but then after a few minutes I realized she didn’t mean a whole piece she meant the whole thing because she was making some assumptions of my cultural background and the connection to watermelon. And my colleague and I, Professor Padgett, who spent a lot time talking about that and we began to look at other things about the university. For example, three of the major buildings of the university were names after major historical figures who were involved in trying to exclude people of African descent from being involved in the university’s segregation. So you have the judge, the president of the university and one of the key attorneys and the major building on campus were kind of connected to people who were historically kind of committed to White supremacy. And so you know, we thought that was interesting, and the more we looked into that we said “We really need a campus organization or some outlet to kind of educate people,” and so forth. And





so, I think that incident and other incidents that occurred to us and other students began to lead to a conclusion in us that to some extent the university as a center for the cultivation of higher level ideas was missing the social applicability of those ideas. I mean we were not putting into practice the things we rhetorically were saying. Now of course UF wasn’t unique in that, but because we were there we were hyper sensitive to that, and that began an investigation into all areas of the university and even the local community: everything from police brutality to healthcare to economic development to all of these issues which were constantly in the Sun and all the newspapers. And there were activists who, you know, were very frustrated about the lack of progress on a lot of these issues and so you know I think that’s what drove. I had always been an activist. I had been an activist as an undergrad at Georgetown University. So I came with the tradition of activism and my colleague Dr. Padgett had also come from a background, if it makes a difference, we had both come from large urban environments. He was from Baltimore. I was from Atlanta, and so we got a history of activism, and the quiet was very disturbing to us.

And when I say the quiet I don’t mean volume, but I mean the fact that no one seemed to be speaking about these major social issues at the university was disquieting to us, and so we promised to make some noise. And, we began that with kind of an informational campaign trying to educate people about a lot of these issues and that spilled over into a lot of other things. So, I think that was the launching moment.





	B:	Okay, and you mentioned the buildings. Do you remember which buildings in particular?

	O:	Oh, well we were dealing with the O’Connell Center, of course, and the J. Wayne Reitz facility, and all of these are historical figures in Florida politics and Florida governments and so forth. And one of their claims to fame to some extent was, and I would have to remember the roles, but all three of them were actors or participants in some of the fundamental places involving whether the University of Florida was going to be inclusive of all its residents in Florida. And they were on the wrong side of the debate, at least from our standpoint. So, and we thought that, you know, when you memorialize people in an institution, and we're dealing with this now, with the Confederate memorials and so forth, it’s when you memorialize someone you don’t just memorialize a person, but you memorialize what it is that they stood for, what’s kind of their claim to fame, what makes them great. And the problem is when you memorialize people and events that are not consistent with the social values and ideas that you want to be projected on behalf of the institution of the program, then you signal to people who on the opposite side of the question that perhaps they’re not included perhaps this is not the place for them, this is not a hospitable environment and so forth and so on. And so, when you break out Confederate flags and when you pay tribute to people that were Klan’s members when you do all this kind of stuff, then at the same time you have a rhetoric that says, you know, “We want to include everyone





and we want everyone involved in what it is that we’re doing here and we’re gonna represent the highest level of education known to society.” You set up a contradiction, and eventually that contradiction, I believe, is gonna be questioned and is gonna be challenged. And we were a part of that force of people that challenged the status quo in an attempt to wake everyone up to a new level of social consciousness.

	B:	And you mentioned that there were some incidents that happened to other students on campus. Do you remember any of them specifically?

	O:	Oh, I probably remember all of them. We−



	B:	Yeah, this is why we’re here, just to get that memory



	O:	Right, well, let’s see where do we begin? We created an organization called the “Loyal Order of the 99.” which the 99 part was from a research study which indicated that certain critical things did not happen for African people in particular, but people in color more generally in the United States even though they were growing demographically. If there were certain things that didn’t happen politically, economically, socially in terms of social inclusion the idea was that they would be facing genocide. By some of the more radical positions for that, you know, these communities would not survive. And so, we called it the Loyal Order of the 99, which referenced to that kind of dropped end date, if you will, of 1999, which at that time was still coming that we were going to try to work in the community on the campus, and throughout the state, and throughout the country on this wide variety of issues would in a sense change the





template of the trajectory for 1999. You know, one of the big issues on campus right away was that, and maybe the issue that kind of kind of catapulted us into a lot of involvement at the university was the relationship between the student government at the time and student organizations, which I would argue was inherently structurally problematic, from the beginning. At most universities there was a great deal more oversight over student government. Student government was primarily a vehicle for students to provide input to the administration, administrative decisions, and to communicate their voice. Kind of a [inaudible at 13:30], but more of a sounding board because ultimately the administration was in charge. Well, at the University of Florida it was somewhat unique in that the student government was given a lot more autonomy. It was very much a hands-off approach. The student government was extremely under- represented. It did not demographically in terms of gender, race, class, any social variable you want to talk about. It was entirely unrepresentative. It tended to be people who were European American. It tended to be people who were more well-off economically. It tended to be people who were not really engaged in communities of color much in the way of social justice activism, and so when it began to make decisions-- those decisions, like sometimes in Congress and the state legislative and other places, when you don’t have a diversity of perspective, you don’t have diversity of decision. Now in this case that was problematic because the student government controlled, you know at that time somewhere around





six million dollars of facilities and structures and so forth. I mean they had tremendous control over what student life would like at the university. And the problem was without that representation, you know, you’re getting this diverse student constituency, but you have a student government that only represents a few people. Like one of the rituals that used to really offend me was each year organizations from people of color whether it was the Black Student Union or the whatever it was would then go into a room with the budgeting bodies of the student government and try to convince them that having money for Black history month or having money for things that were relevant to their communities whether that was worth at least in their mind, our student expense. Inevitably, that discussion is problematic. I mean when you’re going in front of another group trying to convince them of the importance of your own humanity, your own heritage, that’s a problem. You have women marching into a room full of men trying to convince them that activities for women are important you’re gonna have a problem which is why we have to kind of avoid creating those situations, but in this case the student government was allowed to do that, and it led to a great deal of hostility between diverse student communities and student government. It led to protests, and we were intimately involved in that. Finally, matters reached the head in one particular year when all of the members of the 99 were encouraged to be engaged in other organizations in the community. So even though we were all in the 99, we were also all in the, you know, whether it was the Black student union, you





know, whether it was whatever the organization was. So that mean that we, in our dual roles, we were very well aware of having to make these appeals to these very unsympathetic, undiverse bodies, and we kind of went to the administration and said, “You know you can’t allow the student government to do this.” Now there’s a backdrop, there was the powerful leadership organization at the time called “Florida Blue Key.” You know one of the things we did, we were rigorous about research, when we were opposing institutional structures we wanted to do our research. And the thing was the student government structure, over many many years, had not been just about representing students as a traditional student government. It also had been a platform for a great deal of money and resources to flow in for support of future leaders if you will, in the state of Florida. And so, the amount of money that was being spent, for example, on a student government election at the University of Florida was flabbergasting to me because, you know, I’m traditionally-- a student government election is a bunch of students walking around with… but I mean we had student government elections where people were giving out free clothing, bags of swag. Clearly there was large amount of money and I think, “Why?” And it was partly because this leadership administration under the guidance of Florida Blue Key saw the student government structure as kind of a platform for launching people who would be future senators, and so forth, in the State. And in fact, many people of the leaders of the state at all levels were very engaged in both the Blue Key





organization, and also in student politics. So it meant when you began to oppose the student political structure it wasn’t going to be long before you were gonna have much more powerful enemies in the state because they saw this as their turf. And so as we began to move up the line of the administration in terms of raising our grievances with the way in which the whole model was working we became consciously aware that there were more powerful forces that weighed against us. I remember a particular meeting with President Bryan, who was an interim president at the time.

We talked about the fact that we were facing this, you know, kind of unjust, and we felt discriminatory structure, when it came to finding and supporting student activities. And President Bryan, I’ll never forget, he says, “Well, I’ve never experience discrimination in my lifetime, and I’ve been in Florida my whole life.” And all of us, a room full of people of color, we just kind of stared. It was almost surreal because what in many ways it confirms that hear you have the President of the university, who’s completely oblivious to issues that involve diverse communities and so that means structures at the university that were supposed to be responsive were also not. There were housing incidents where students would be the victims of practical jokes or be the victims of, you know, various kinds of things. I remember one young women had a bag of urine blown up in a balloon, she had that dropped on her head. We had the humiliation of White student unions, sponsored by Klans. We had this Tony Pistanzi, who was a member of the local Klan, was charged with the





Klan of creating these White student unions, and he eventually got a White student union on campus that went around and promoted the notion that if you were a student of color that you didn’t deserve to be there because you were all affirmative action and unqualified and you were taking jobs from qualified White men. We had just all kinds of situations.

We had a neo-Nazi movement. Moved across the street from the university adjacent to a, it was a 7-11 or something at the time And they would randomly attack students of color and we went to the local police and their notion was, “Well, we can’t do anything until we actually catch somebody,” and so we started forming community defense units to do that. The institute for Black culture was defaced, and racist slurs were put there. The university quickly painted over them in the middle of the night, but what it didn’t do, and what we insisted upon, was that it be given some formal lighting at the time. And also that it have around the clock protection, and so they refused to do so, so we formed a security detail to do that. These issues that all going on in the university were also going on in the larger town. The media often didn’t cover things regarding people of color, so we created our own newspaper. There were very few opportunities. We had, for example, an African American Studies Department at the time that was really kind of a running joke at the university because you had this one professor, who was a hero of mine, Dr. James Foreman, and I think that was his name I may be messing up the name there, but there was this one African American professor, and





that was the African American studies department. You couldn’t really get any classes because basically it boiled down to the one or two classes and so you had the classes and you had a part-time secretary. And that was presented to us as an academic department, which is totally ridiculous. And if you compare that to any other academic department-- so that was another signal. And the same thing. We had a giant, for example, African Studies Department which is very engaged with, whether it was African disease or African agricultural production, or whatever. It was known, and it remains known around the world as being much engaged, but there was strong desire to make sure that the African American department had nothing to do with the African studies department. And, it was totally marginalized and ghettoized at the university, and that was yet another issue. The hypocrisy of classes as it relates to the African American culture experience. So we started, you know, addressing when we would find what we felt was an omission we would bring that to the university, so we brought film series, we brought speakers. We had a Malcom X rally every year. We galvanized the campus. One of our big things was the Columbus Day when we would bring a hearse and a coffin and we would have this grave and funeral on campus to designate all the people of color who were slaughtered as a result this thing called, “discovery.” And so, needless to say we got a lot of attention in the press. We modeled ourselves after the Black Panthers, so our organizational structure…we had a minister of information and a chief of security and so





forth. And we really took the image of the Black Panthers. There had been a lot of allegations of police brutality that weren’t being handled or investigated in the community, and so we took a stand on that. We would do the kind of police exercises where we would monitor what the police were doing in these low income and disadvantaged communities. In particular, we sometimes would set up our own security patrols to patrol the community and that got a lot of attention and a lot of positive feedback from people in the community because they knew that when the 99 came, we were not an occupying army or someone from outside. We were people from the community who cared about the community. We supported economic development and entrepreneurship. And so we were doing, you know I’d like to say I’m a junior Panther, so that’s partly why I think the Panther influence or the Panther image was very important in my mind. And we made a tremendous impact in the community. Again, we set up chapters around other places in the state, and so forth. But of course, there’s always a backlash, and the backlash really came from people who basically view any change in the status quo, I call it the “J. Edgar Hoover mentality,” and they basically view any organization trying to change the status quo economically, politically, socially as being an enemy. And so of course, we like Malcom X and everybody else we were called violent, we were called . . . I remember one case in particular case when we had our annual Malcom X conference that we had every year on campus, and I noticed there were a bunch of guys walking around with trench coats





talking to their top of their trench coats. Now I knew from my experience [laughter] having been in the movement that these were probably FBI agents, and I’m sitting there like, “Why are FBI agents coming to a student event on campus?” I couldn’t quite figure it out, and later we found out that there was a woman in Gainesville, an elderly woman, who I guess they had searched her property and they found some old World War II war munitions or something; maybe an undetonated munitions or something.

And somehow that got attached to us, and I make that point to just say that’s the environment that we were in that people missed all the programming and all the educational stuff and all the economic development or whatever and so they saw a group of people of African descent and sympathetic people from other communities. They saw us marching around and taking a stand on these social issues, and instantly we were this militant threat to civilization. It was at times amusing. We also got a reaction from the Klan and other organizations which tried ironically to identify with us as if our agenda was the same as theirs. I remember getting a copy of the local Klan newspaper and they had a picture of me with the Klan grain driving uniform on as if I identified with them. I never believed in race. Race for me was always an artificial construction, anyway. That’s what we taught, but of course they didn’t know that cause then they never attended meetings or anything. It was really interesting to watch how the media could manufacture an image of who we were and what we were doing. We were men and women, college students, very





well educated doing research and then putting that research to practice in a social context. That might be a lot, but . . . [laughter]

	B:	I did have some follow up questions. A lot of things you mentioned. So how did you all get resources for the 99?

	O:	I think most of it was out of pocket. I spend a lot of time studying college students as revolutionaries even as an undergrad, and so I knew college students have enormous access to resources. They may be in the best position sometimes to make social change because those of us who once you get older you’ve got family, you’ve got invested institutional commitments, you can’t do that. As a college student, first of all, you have in terms of information, you usually have a giant university library with tremendous resources right there, so you’ve got information. You’ve got access to computers and digital equipment to communicate your story.

The internet was just being developed at this time, and so you could use a little bit of that, but more often it was word of mouth. There’s a great deal of, if you manage your time properly, you have more free time than someone who’s locked down with a full time job, so we could to places in the community, and so forth. We largely bought our own stuff. It wasn’t really about money as much as it was about organization. I’ve often said that, for example, you can come up with a clothing program or a food program. I’m also an ordained minister, so that affects my perspective too. We sometimes believe that a hungry person needs money. No, a hungry person needs food, and it’s actually easier for me to get them food than to





get them money and then try to convert the money into food. Meaning I can get people in the community to bring a potluck, and I say everybody bring a little bit of what you have, and we can have a giant dinner for one hundred people that cost almost nothing. I mean we might pay a little something for the tables and the set-up, but we don’t have to have a caterer. Everyone can just bring a little bit of what they have. It’s a very kind of African approach, an afro-centric approach to social organization. That’s what we did. I mean how did we create a security team? Did we spend thousands of dollars or whatever? No! We recruited young men and young women who were interested in being a part of a security detail in the community. They came to meetings. We taught them basic self- defense skills, and so forth. We got them a uniform. We basically bought them a bunch of berets and camouflage uniforms and we put them out there. We introduced the community to them and WHAM! We got a security team. I’m one of those people who has always believed that the system oversells the idea that to make social change you need millions of dollars. I think you just need men and women of conscience acting. And again, I’m informed very much by the Panthers’ experience. I mean that was the organization that set up breakfast programs and co-curricular educational programs and newspapers and so forth. And how did you do it? You did it by a shoestring, and then of course once you get the shoestring started then from time to time you may have somebody that says, “You know what?” and we did have somebody for example. They





saw us putting up fliers. We’re paying for this out of pocket, you know, college students with very little money. They’re like, “Look, I have a copier and if you guys want to use it I support what you’re doing so you can use our copier to make X number of copies.” And so suddenly we have more copies. We have people who say, “Well, you know what, I got this meeting facilities and I’m not using it every night. You guys can meet there and you can have your programs with the young people there.” And so I find that people in the community, if in fact you are working for their interest, and they see that you’re not causing violence and you’re not hurting people and you’re trying to help the community, they will give you, not money because they don’t really have money, but they actually have a lot of resources and a lot of facilities and a lot of skills that you can take advantage of. So the interesting thing is there were times when there was little to no money, but there was always lots and lots of helpful people.

	B:	Were there any areas in Gainesville that you were involved with?



	O:	We were involved in and supported the creation of the Civic Media Center, which I love that idea because we spent a lot of time talking about the media and how people should not rely on the corporatized mainstream media to get their information. We of course had our own newspaper and so it logically followed. I participated in a whole bunch of stuff at the inception of the Civic Media Center, and everything that was going there. The 5th Avenue Arts Festival which was a big kind of African American festival. At the time we were there, not so much now, but at the time we





were there, there was still a decent number of African communities and business and so forth that lined the 5th Avenue area and they would all come out for this big festival, and so we would participate in that festival and support that festival. We also had some of our security apparatus there because there was a lot of kind of unnecessary criminal activity and once you get that then you have the police coming in. And since the relationship between the police and the community wasn’t very good, that’s a recipe for disaster. I’ve often argued that the way we respond to police brutality and policy excess is within the community try to avoid the situation that’s gonna lead to the intervention of the police in the first place. And so, that’s kind of what the security details were about is that if we can in a sense police ourselves and regulate our relationships with ourselves then we don’t get these people from outside who really don’t know what’s going on coming in with the badges and the batons and the rest of that stuff. I still believe that and that’s still part of my life today.

	B:	What was the name of the newspaper you mentioned?



	O:	We called it the “99 News.” Sometimes we just put “Loyal Order of the 99” on the bulletin or whatever. It was just basically a one page pamphlet it wasn’t really a newspaper like [inaudible at 34:09]. It was kind of a one page pamphlet of what was going on in the community, what we were trying to do, what it was about, sometimes refuting some of the non-sense that the media had at the time. I gave, along with other members of the 99, we gave lots of newspaper stuff. Now what’s interesting of course is





that one of the things you learn as you pass from young, youth status to older is that while you think that the media’s interviewing you to get the story out, the truth out, and you are sympathetic to that , you know a lot of times the media is more interested in exploiting and getting in a big story and stuff, and so there were times when I would do an hour long interview explaining every philosophical aspect of what we were doing just like the Panthers, and then when I saw the journal article, whatever came out it was like, “Militant band of students do this that and the other or propose this.” [Laughter] and I was like, “Okay, I didn’t say that. That has nothing to do with what I was talking about,” and so it was really interesting to watch. It was a learning experience to watch the media. We had a Malcom X university every year, an African University. So we would teach classes, focus on African culture, African history, so forth and so on at the Institute for Black Culture. We had a very close relationship with the Institute for Black Culture at the time, and that was kind of an operational phase. We really, really saw that as our home, and the home of the community in a safe place where we can be. But we argue that it wasn’t just a place to throw up some art work and listen to some concerts or something like that. we made it an educational and political kind of headquarters. There were those at the university who weren’t very happy with that [laughter].

	B		You mention that there were racial slurs written at the Institute of Black Culture, do you wanna talk a little bit more about that?





	O:	Yes, well I mean just that along the course of all of our demonstrations and stuff. What was really fascinating was as the 99 gained in prominence and more people found out that we were standing up all to all of this discrimination and negativity, and so forth. Some people became really really hostile. Some people decided one night to go and basically spray paint the n-word and a bunch of other things, you know, “Go Home!” and so forth. It’s just a traditional affair if you [laughter] personally face discrimination you see that stuff all the time, and they put it all up at the Institute for Black Culture. Now, I was informed pretty quickly. One of the things that we had in the 99 was a great communication system because I always argued that community word of mouth was way more effective than the media. So, I would get calls about stuff, and so I quickly went and took pictures to make sure cause I knew what the next step would be.

Before the morning sun even came up the university had gotten this painting crew out and they basically painted over it. We responded by saying, “Okay, you can paint over it, but you can’t deny it was there. And also what are you going to do in terms of securing our facility?” We wanted to teach the lesson that we as a community have to defend our facilities and stuff. We can’t allow them to be attacked. We can’t allow our people to be attacked. We can’t allow our facilities to be attacked. We put a twenty-four hour security detail around the IBC, and as a result of that the university eventually added additional lighting and their own security because they didn’t really want us out there, but we told them, “We would





stay out there until you guys do something.” And that’s how we transformed the university because a lot of times they didn’t want us to do it [laughter] like, “Oh no, not those guys.” So they would end up doing something they should have done in the first place because we’re like, “Well if you’re not gonna do it we’re gonna do it. We’re gonna do it our own way.” And so, a lot of time the university, the community, the State was responsive to us because they didn’t want to see us-- [laughter]. It was really funny watching how sometimes problems could get solved as soon as they found out that we were coming because our enemies was always probably a little larger than our actual membership and capability. I took great pride in that because I think that was true for the Panthers too. Once you get a perception of being social justice activists who won’t quit, and who are going to stand and take whatever risks you have to take then that changes everything. I mentioned the neo-Nazi collective that had moved across from campus, and were randomly attacking people. We actually confronted them face to face. We went in broad daylight and we told them, “Look, you have every right to live here in this community, but you do not have a right to attack people and we’re not gonna allow you to do that. You know, maybe the police will, but we won’t.” And they moved, they actually moved to Micanopy. They relocated. We went to the White Student Union, and we told them, “Look, you have a right to be a student organization, and you have a right to meet and so forth, but you don’t have a right to disseminate misinformation.” And so, eventually we made a deal





with the White Student Union we said, “Now look, we know you guys are connected to the Klan, and we don’t think an organization like the Klan should be involved in anything at the university even if you’re operating under the cover of the White Student Union.” Now of course, the interesting thing about the White Student Union is that they were a group of students being manipulated by the Klan. The Klan has always been a manipulative organization. It takes advantage of people who are poorly informed and confused. Like they basically took a bunch of White students, White male students and a couple of people of color, and told them that they would be denied opportunities because of Black people, whatever. And they formed this thing. They kinda had this moment, and we were like “If we can prove if this initiative is a Klan initiative, you guys agree to go away. Right?” And they said, “Yes,” but they were so convinced that the Klan had nothing to do with it, and so we did the research and we tracked down the Klan leader who had formed all of this and stuff and we put that in the school newspaper and the public media. And that was the disappearance of the White Student Union. It’s kind of interesting to watch now as the Klan is up to those same techniques now, and they’re beginning to try to bring those White Student Unions back again. And of course, the argument is always, “Well you know there’s a Black Student Union, so there should be a White Student Union.” Well, if the White Student Union is about promoting your American culture and values that’s not a problem, but if it’s an organization that’s basically





designed to attack everybody else’s culture and heritage then that’s a dubious proposition.

	B:	So what happened to the 99? Did everyone graduate or how did that kind of stop?

	O:	Yeah, I mean I think the 99, it evolved. There were other chapters formed around the state and other members and like anything else it was a creature of its time. You have to keep in mind, okay, it’s created in the [19]80s when we’re still on the tail end of the Reagan era. I mean Reagan was elected when I went to high school, and he served two terms, so that’s eight years, and then the first Bush regime was pretty much a continuation of Reagan. During the Reagan era there was this ideology called colorblindness, and I always say that’s color-foolishness because what colorblindness is that the way you deal with racism, discrimination, sexism is that you deny it. We all agree to be blind, but it’s kind of like saying, “If we agree to not to say the word ‘car accident,’ nobody gets hit by a car.” That’s not gonna happen. All that’s gonna happen is people are gonna get hit, and they’re gonna suffer even more because we’re all gonna walk around and pretend that there hasn’t been a car accident. The same thing happens when you don’t deal with race and gender and class and these other things. They’re not going away, they’re just gonna be rendered invisible and essentially colorblindness… we’re not gonna do anything. That was Reagan’s big policy. As a result, the culture as a whole, the national culture as well as the state culture and the university





culture, was kinda like “We’re just gonna deny stuff.” And so everybody would just kinda walk around like everything’s okay, everything’s okay. It’s not okay. I think what happens as you begin to get to certainly 1992, [19]93, [19]94, [19]95, as we move towards the period where I’m gonna graduate and some of the other senior leaders in the 99 are graduating and student leaders are gonna transition. Not only were we leaving, but remember there’s a shift from a republican to a democratic administration. There’s a shift in the rhetoric. I don’t think there was as much shift in policy as people like to believe, but there certainly was a shift in the rhetoric that we’re not gonna pretend that racism doesn’t exist and we’re not gonna pretend that there’s no Klan out there and we’re not gonna pretend. I think that’s what happened. I think in a sense, social organizations exist when they’re needed. We were seriously needed at that moment in time to raise the consciousness of communities of color and larger scale communities about racism, sexism and other things. We built lots of coalitions with other organizations and the Latino community and the feminist community and so forth. I think that was needed at that time. As the need began to decline in terms of the change in the political culture where you can begin to make changes through the legitimate structure, where you could go to the university and say, “We want funding for Black history month,” and not go through the begging ritual. When you can say, “We need to have more diverse faculty.” When you can say to the police department, “Hey, we really need to deal with some of these community-police relationships,”





then you don’t as much need an organization that’s gonna kinda force that issue because that issues on the table. Now, I do find it ironic that we probably would be reborn right about now if we could somehow reverse the time and stay in the same time, simultaneously because I think what happened was after that period of [19]92, whatever, as we get to 2000, and so on, they’re developing new ideology of colorblindness and so I’m watching all the issues that we were fighting for and dealing with and speaking out about and taking stands for. Right now, our current on colleges and universities as well in the country and so it’s interesting how cyclical life in America is and university is.

	B:	You mentioned the Institute of Black Culture was a place where you would meet often in the 199. Was there any relationships with the faculty and staff at the IBC that might have been fundamental to this? Or anything you want to touch upon about the role that IBC perhaps played in the 99?

	O:	Again, it was a meeting place, a strategic planning place. It was a place where we could do our educational activities, and it was kind of a home on campus. It had been that before, but it became that even more perhaps. It was a place where there was an awful lot of philosophical discussion. I guess I’d call it the “Academic barber shop,” and I use that language specifically because any African American community quite often the major issues are debated and decided at the barber shop or the beauty salon believe it or not because there aren’t as many political spaces that are representative. And so, this was a place on campus that everybody





could come no matter what their political strife or economic strife or social strife or whatever. The leadership at the time kinda facilitated that. We stayed in dialogue with sympathetic faculty. We also brought in the staff, and when I say the staff I mean even the maintenance crew, the cleaning crew. So we had relationships with people who felt that they were on the other side of the power ledger all across campus. There were a few sympathetic administration interested in what we were doing. There were some others who were very sympathetic, but wouldn’t speak out publicly in favor of us, and then we had some who were hostile. I don’t know if you have already in your database the events that lead to the biggest student demonstration which was after student government kind of dug their heels in the sand, and simply refused to fund Black history month, and that led to a giant sit-in and so forth. Are you aware of that? Or should I--

	B:	Yeah, I’m not sure that would be Black Thursday, correct, that wouldn’t be that? That was after?

	O:	No, I’m not familiar with Black Thursday, not quite sure what that is.



Basically what happens is the student government and administration, either alternates between saying, “We won’t provide any funding,” or it says it will provide a tiny amount of funding nothing commensurate with the size of the student constituency, or a sense of the importance of the events. At the time, I was the Black history speaker coordinator, so my job as part of the Black student union was to carry out Black history month, and in that case coordinate the speakers for the month. The budgets that





were on the table that we were being offered were so low that we really couldn’t do anything. This was an intentional move by certain people in student government to teach us a lesson that told us, “We’re not gonna do this.” Well, we agreed it was an unacceptable amount, but what’s interesting is that we also not only radicalized the community, but we radicalized student organizations. Many of the, and this was a community issue as well as a campus issue, many of the organizations that were created on campuses for students of color and so forth and so on, are kind of created in this beggar position where they see their role as kind of begging the administrative structure for money and resources on behalf of their constituency. That means to a leadership that is inclined to beg, they’re not inclined to direct action to protest to sit-ins. These are people who basically are like, “Well, I guess we gotta ask em. Well, they said no. Let’s ask them again. Let’s ask them again.” I am totally hostile to that kind of leadership. It was really interesting because what actually happens during that period is that there’s this tremendous debate, “Well, what are we going to do? They said no. What are we gonna do? They said no.” And the administration is allowing them to say, “No.” And some of those leaders were like, “Well, okay I guess we just can’t have it.” I was just beyond incredulous. We ended up having a meeting in which the entire executive board of what had been the BSU was replaced. It wasn’t officially replaced, but what happened was the BSU was replaced by BAM the Black Action Movement. That was our slogan, “BAM,” like we’re gonna





hit these people hard and get their attention. So the name change, it wasn’t just a symbolic name change, it meant a change in strategy. We are not going to sit here and beg these people, we as students are entitled to a reasonable portion of the resources of the student resources of the university. We’re entitled to be respected, and we’re not gonna be ignored so you got this Black Action Movement. The 99, which was an independent organization, a lot of the 99 people become major leaders in the BAM. You also get people who were tired of the traditional begging leadership style who also joined BAM who had not been in 99, and so we got hats, we got t-shirts. BAM became the slogan, and there was usually a Black fist slammed down somewhere or the symbol of the Black fist. And we’re like, “Okay, BAM.” Everybody would say, “BAM,” whenever they wanted to identify with the movement. We developed a new leadership, and we said “We are going to protest the student government,” so we began sitting-in at student government meetings and basically disrupting those meetings bringing up the issue of Black history month, and so forth. So student government would sometimes try to hide or meet in different places or they would end the meeting prematurely to try to avoid us.

Things kept going in that direction, and then finally as the deadline began to come up on what was gonna happen with the funding, there was a full sit-in, and people sat-in the student government meeting. They also sat-in at the student government office and refused to move. The BAM movement completely immobilized the student government that evening





and then a smaller group of students decided that they would barricade themselves in the student government office and refuse to come out until the issue was addressed. So this was the ultimate night, I remember getting a phone call from my home and coming over and seeing all the students who had and they all had signs saying, “We don’t want to be treated this way.” You have the students barricaded in the office, who basically would only talk to me and said what their demands were. It was really interesting. You had the student government officials refusing to do anything. Now, the university at first was gonna come in with the SWAT team and forcibly remove all these people. I made the case that, “You don’t want to do that. University of Florida is gonna be on TV. The reaction from the community and places around is not going to be good for the image of the university. You do not want to bring a SWAT team on unarmed students expressing their political will. We need to engage in some serious negotiations here.” And we spent the whole night negotiation. It was very tense because there was concern about obviously not only the SWAT team, but as the demonstration went on local Klan units were talking about coming up supposedly protecting White people who I guess were supposed to be in danger which was utterly ridiculous, but of course the specter of having White supremacists and SWAT teams and all this stuff … it was very much … a night that could have gone very bad because there had been a number of other incidents on campus where people had been attacked, where people had been the victim of





overt racial slurs and a lot of it was in the newspaper. A lot of really nasty stuff back and forth in the newspaper, so you had this explosive environment. You had this one night with relatively spooked student government officials, you got people barricaded in the office with some local press members from the Gainesville Iguana, and you’ve got this sit-in going on both in the student government meeting and in the student government office. I’m sitting there trying to diffuse as best as I could the tensions. We ended up with an agreement in which student government realized it would probably be a good idea to fund Black history month, and that was the end of it. One of the most fascinating things was at the end of the demonstration the university was gonna … I assume they were gonna move in and arrest the students who had barricaded themselves in the office, but interestingly enough the power was cut to the building just at the moment the demonstration ended, and all of the students who were in the office were gone when the lights came back on and I thought that was a very interesting development. About two weeks later, one of the amusing things, the university asked me for my ID and I gave them my ID. They were trying to prosecute me for allegedly coordinating all of this, but what it really was students had had enough. From that point on, the rest of the time I was there after the BAM, the consciousness began to change. “This is really important and we can’t disregard this and we have to listen to people and we have to be more inclusive, and so forth.” So that was a step, but we did go through our moment of radicalism when everything





was shut down and the building was taken over and people had barricaded themselves in and the SWAT team was outside, and so it was very serious. I thought it was really fascinating I heard something about UF doing a tribute to the history in alliance with Black students starting from when the first Black student got there and I guess bringing it up to present day, and the totally omitted our entire era which I thought was frankly intentional. Showing me that UF is not necessarily as comfortable with our era as they are with certain other things. I mean it’s great to tell the story of “Back then we integrated and back in 1950s” whatever, and it’s great to tell the story of where you are now. It’s not always great to tell the story of the people who paid the cost and slogged the away to get you to where you are now because that’s not always a pretty picture, and a picture where your institution or your officials looked really, really not good. I thought it was interesting that I kind of heard something about that presentation, and following it, I thought it was really interesting that nobody from the 99 or the Black student union or the BAM or whatever, no one was featured in any of that, and this was at the time for about three or four years, the most important core of activism at the entire university. And nothing was said about it. I ended up being elected into the UF hall of fame, which I thought was kind of interesting. At the same exact time that I was graduating with a PhD and had been elected to the hall of fame, I was also the victim of an intense prosecution by the university [laughter] for my





activism, so I thought it was an interesting juxtaposition of acknowledging and opposing at the same time.

	B:	So you mentioned negotiations. Was this just for the funding or did it involve other items?

	O:	Well, it really was for the funding as well as-- let’s say the university and the student government was really about the funding in the immediate situation, but over the next year as the consulate in some ways continued. It wasn’t nearly as sharp as judicious, but the consulate did continue. It ultimately led to some agreements for more oversight on student government when it comes to funding certain kinds of activities. I mean we were in a situation where, “Okay, you got three or four members who are senators in the student government who are in the ski club,” so the ski club without any debate gets $50-60,000 of student money. I’m using the ski club as just an example here. I don’t mean literally the ski club, but I’m simply saying there’s a constituency in student government that does skiing so they’re gonna go ahead and give them a ton of money. No debate it just gets passed. Then the minute you bring in people of color, women, these other issues and you would go to the student government floor. Every single senate rule, every slow down, every obstacle, every subcommittee, every reason for not doing it would be brought on the table because there was no constituency inside student government to really deal with that. So it led to a change. Another thing that happened was we had a student government election, and in the next election the BAM





movement ran a flight, and our goal was to completely take over the student government structure [laughter]. Okay? I was the presidential candidate. We nominated this young woman from the nation of Islam Aisha Mannings as the vice presidential candidate. We nominated a Rastafarian Jabari White to be the treasurer, and we tried to nominate many as we could for senate seats. We added up the number of students of color and so forth and we targeted that as our election constituency. We were pretty convinced that we would actually take over the student government entirely. Now imagine what a coup it woulda been to have the BAM come out successfully to get these events funded and then have essentially the BAM coalition take over student government as a whole, and totally revamp the way we’ve gotta go. Now, needless to say, that led to an emergency call to the forces that did not want that to happen, and for the first time you had a split. We used to have what we called the Blue Key Party because it would always one dominant party, and it would pretty much carry the election regardless of how everyone voted. The Blue Key party, the blue key candidate, that person would be called. Well in this particular case there was a gentleman who wanted to be the Blue Key candidate, but the Blue Key coalition did not want him to be the candidate. They had picked another candidate, but he was independently wealthy, and so he was able to bring tons of money to bear. And so for the first time the Blue Key vote, as it was called, was split. That had not happened in the whole time we were there, and I think I personally believe that the





split was a direct result, of even though we did not win, we called ourselves the PLAN P-L-A-N, that was an acronym, but the PLAN coalition did not win. We did get some seats, but we forced a wedge in the status quo where it was split between this independent candidate and the traditional Blue Key candidate. That changed the political structure because it means that suddenly people couldn’t take it for granted that they were going to control this power structure anymore. And there were people in the independent branch who were sympathetic to some of the things we were talking about. So I think we transformed student government even though we don’t get credit for that. We didn’t win the election, but by being a third party and driving a third party wedge, we forced a break in the status quo, and for the first time the traditional Blue Key coalition did not control student government and that did lead during that student government administration to a lot more attention to diversity and to cultural issues, and so forth cause they did not want us to come back during the next election cycle [laughter].

	B:	So were there any things that the members who did get seats, are there any things that they were able to implement during that time?

	O:	Oh yes! I mean they built coalitions, and like I said, any in that, at least during that time, and I don’t know the structure now, but any in we were able to get some general agreements that certain kinds of funding, funding that was targeted at increasing the cultural diversity on campus, the awareness of people from different backgrounds and cultures. The social





and cultural needs of students who come from different constituencies, these kinds of funding things would be kind of set apart from the general funding schematics, so that they’re not hobbies. They would not be treated as hobbies, or optional activities, and the university agreed with that as well. The university agreed that it would set aside some money as well that would kinda supplement what student government might do, so student government would still have some discretion, but you would not ever be at least at that point in this position of, “You want money Native American studies, and you want money for Native American activities,” you have a room full of people and nobody’s a Native American and they say, “We don’t think what you have to present is important enough.” I think there was a commitment by the university and namely by the new student government administration that there’s somethings that we carry out as a function of being an educational institution. Certainly, we would not debate whether we would give money the physics department because we know that not having a physics department means you’re not a 21st century university. Nobody’s gonna do that. Nobody’s gonna debate whether we’re gonna have student health services, I mean you have to it’s just a … but there’s always been this debate when it comes to… we call it diversity, multicultural, call it whatever you want, there’s always a notion that that’s an option that we can chose or not chose. I think at least during our time that we were able to force the issue that, “No, these are not things we should be choosing either. If we’re gonna become a university that’s





gonna represent the state of Florida, If we’re gonna become a society that’s gonna represent everybody because we’re also involved nationally and regionally and so forth, if we’re gonna be this society that’s gonna be people from different languages, different religions, different cultures, different things then we cannot have a higher educational institution anywhere that ignores that, that doesn’t have programming connected to that, that doesn’t have programming designed to sustain people from different backgrounds, and that’s for the good of everyone. And so, all of a sudden it’s not that we’re doing something for you people, it’s actually we are doing something for ourselves, and the notion of “our” including everyone. I think, if I had to step away and say, “What would I want credit for having contributed to?” that’s where I would wanna step away from.

Now, of course, sadly as is often the case in history those kinds of things don’t come up on the radar screen as people tell their institutional and social histories.

	B:	So we’re definitely interested in gathering these stories cause a lot of these things I am sure a lot of people don’t know who weren’t there at the time, and then it’s not passed forward as institutional history. Or it could be framed as something that university did, but it was students and things like that.

	O:	Absolutely. No, no, I said, “Absolutely,” I just was agreeing with you.



	B:	And so I think that’s all the questions I have right now, but before we conclude the interview I’d like to give you some time for any last





comments. Maybe something that we didn’t get to with the interview, or something you wish you had some more time to talk more about. Is there anything that you want to say before we conclude?

	O:	Well, I guess I certainly would recommend Dr. David Padgett at Tennessee State University, he’s a major figure. John Warfred was a major figure, he wasn’t per say in the 99, but he was a major figure. He was kind of a mentor to me and then he ran something called the Black Male Leadership Development Program. He ran that program. It also met at the Institute for Black Culture, and it was very important for cultivating leaders not just for the 99, but for around campus. We created an organization called Sisters in Struggle which was kind of a female exclusive version of the same thing, and that was led by Aaronette Carter, and her nickname was Nita, Nita Carter; N-I-T-A. She was a graduate of University of Florida law schools, so if you can track her down she can talk about her experience with Sisters in Struggle and the 99 because we tended to do things together as a group. So those are some people that immediately… there’s Stanley Harrison. He’s an alumni. He was, I guess you could say, a first lieutenant in the 99. He was very much involved in our activities, and I’d probably have the names of everybody at some point depending on how many people you want to go through, but those are certainly some people who are right at the forefront of everything that we were doing. We kept a very extensive database. I, for years have been talking about writing a book about these things. Just with other projects I





had just never gotten around to it, but now I’m kinda thinking seriously before the sun sets on my memories and all these materials that it would be a good idea to bring this to the floor. So everybody know that the 1960s and [19]70s there was a lot of student activism, and we all know that, but people tend to forget the activism of the [19]80s and [19]90s, and how much that transformed colleges and universities and the experience of students on campus.

	B:	So I’ll definitely follow up to get some more names. We do have one interview with Dr. Padgett.

	O:	Wonderful.



	B:	And Dr. John Warford. I’m in contact with him, so hopefully we’ll set up an interview soon, but the other names I’ll also look into that and follow up with you on that to see if you have anymore. Yeah, definitely cause I feel like a lot of the history, as you mentioned, that we do have is with the integration era and then a little bit of the activism that followed, but nothing of this period with the [19]80s and [19]90s cause I guess sometimes people assume this is post-integration so they paint an image of perhaps this is not something that’s going on in the campus, but it is definitely a part of the story. We’re really glad that you’re able to… And we’ll probably follow up with a second interview because this is a lot of information, so we’ll end up transcribing.

	O:	Yeah, it’s a lot of stuff.





	B:	Yeah, so we’ll reflect on it and pull some more information out of that, but we’ll stay in contact. I sent you a deed of gift. When you fill that out, we’ll be able to send you a CD and you can play that for your records and eventually we’ll end up sending a transcript, so you’ll have it in written form. We’ll also include Dr. Padgett’s interview that we have on file.

	O:	Okay.



	B:	So, thank you again on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program for allowing us to interview you.

	O:	Mhm, you’re welcome.



	B:	I don’t know if you have anything else, but we can conclude this interview.



	Thank you again. O:	Okay. Thank you

	B:	Have a good weekend. Bye O:	Okay, you too. Bye.

[End of interview]



	Transcribed by:	Liana Zafran, February 1st 2019 Audit-edited by:

Final edited by: