AAHP 162; Islar; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 162 Mae Islar

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Anna Brodrecht and Ryan Morini on March 1, 2011 2 hours, 33 minutes | 76 pages



Abstract: Mae Isabel Vesta Islar grew up in Tampa, Florida, on the fringes of Ybor City. In this interview, she discusses her family history and their connection to Tampa, as well as her own memories of growing up there. Unlike most Southerners, she went to Catholic school growing up, despite her family attending Baptist and Methodist churches. Her grandfather was a cigarmaker, and her great-grandfather worked as a shrimper in Pensacola. She also was told that her grandmother, from Key West, had a mix of African American, Native American, and Spanish ancestry. She states that her great-grandfather was involved in the founding of Florida A&M University, which she attended for her undergraduate studies. Ms. Islar describes typical daily and weekly life from when she was growing up, and the community in Tampa, which was rather complex. Mrs. Islar’s first teaching job was at Euclid High School in DeLand, Florida, and she escorted a student on a field trip to Cuba just before Castro took power. She then taught at Blake High School in Tampa, then in Newberry, Florida, and then at Lincoln High School in Gainesville, Florida. She also talks at length about her life experiences and adventures overall.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Volusia County, Florida; Hillsborough County, Florida; Education]

































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 162

Interviewee: Mae Islar

Interviewers: Anna Brodrecht and Ryan Morini Date: March 1, 2011



	B:	All right. So, do you want to start with your long term history? What can you remember about—just, you can just make sure it’s clicking.

	M:	Yep; no, it’s good.



	B:	We’re good. Okay, do you want to start with your grandparents? What can you remember about your grandparents? Where were they from? Any stories you can remember?

	I:	My grandfather was the most interesting person I have ever known. He was pretty special. He told me stories of things that happened to him. In fact, let me start by saying he was probably one of the earliest pioneers of Tampa. And he moved to Tampa from Bartow. And I thought it was so interesting at the time because we had a fireplace, and in that day and age you didn’t have television. And you sat around the fireplace—it got warm all in front and cold in the back— and you listened to the older people talk about their lives and things that happened. So, it was really almost like storytelling time. And we were allowed to listen, but you didn’t dare interrupt! And so, I found out a lot of things about my grandfather. [Laughter] And then, of course, all of this was documented by all of the pictures that were in our living room. And I don’t know whether you’ve seen any of the earlier pictures back in the early 1900s; some of them were pictures, some of them were portraits. And their eyes always seemed to follow you. And as a kid, sitting in that room, I could always feel like those eyes were constantly on you. It was the most eerie but interesting feeling. And then of course we had a very interesting house. My grandfather moved to Tampa, as I said, just as Tampa





was getting started. I think he said there was a two-room house that he built as a bachelor. And then, of course, like Pops it grew, so that by the time we came along we had a full-fledged two-story house that—I’m not kidding—kind of reminded me of Gone with The Wind? My friends were pretty impressed with that. But, you know, there’s such a thing as you look at a house and you think someone has money? I’m sorry, that was not the case at all! [Laughter] We lived very frugally. But unlike a lot of kids, we owned our property. It was a pretty substantial piece. And the kids all had their own bedrooms, which was kind of unusual for that time when you think about the Depression. We didn't ever go hungry, but I don't think we had anything fancy: snacks were unheard of. We had a lot of fruit trees in our yard. Granddaddy had just about every fruit imaginable he’d planted in there. We had grapefruit, oranges. We had avocado pear. We had pomegranates, we had mangoes. We had guavas, we had plums, dates.

Three or four different varieties of mangoes. And so, as kids we ate a lot of fruit. And my sister and I were talking a couple of weeks ago, and she said, “You know, maybe that’s why we were so healthy.” Because candy was unheard of, snacks were unheard of. You ate a substantial breakfast, you snacked off that fruit, and then maybe you got a really good-sized meal at night. We were pretty much, coming up, confined to our own home. We were not allowed to roam the street. It just wasn’t—my grandfather and my father after him were very protective of us, you know? You didn’t go visit the neighbors unless you asked your parents, and your parents had to ask the neighbor’s parents whether or not it was okay to go over. And then of course, you went and you played out in the





yard. Everybody sat on the front porch. So, you were pretty much observed and watched the whole time that you grew up. If you went to the movies, you went as a group. My dad was probably lurking in the background. I can recall going to a parochial school in Tampa, and the schoolyard was fenced. And I might look up at recess and see my daddy standing at the fence, looking, observing. [Laughter] I always felt like we were under observation. There were three of us: my older sister, Flora, and my brother, Wendell. And I was the youngest. And there were about three or four years between us, and I thought, “Oh, gee, that’s wonderful family spacing!” But there was child who died between each one of us, so that accounted for the three to four year spacing among us. And we were, racially—I mean, not racially, I don't want to put that—we were, in terms of religion, a mixed bag. Everybody on my mother’s side was Baptist. Everybody on my father’s side was Methodist. My grandmother, who was a mixture of Indian and Black and probably Spanish, was a beautiful woman. But she had been married before and she had five children before she married my grandfather. And then she had two children with my grandfather. And of course, her history was very interesting, too, because they came to Tampa by way of St. Augustine, Key West. I mean, we used to pretty much travel with them all the different places that they had been.

My grandmother was kind of really the matriarch of the family. My grandfather kind of pretty much left the running of the house to him. He was, even back in that day, kind of—how do I want to put it? He was a man about town. He wanted to know what was going on. He walked everywhere he went until he died at the age of ninety-three. Actually, he died at ninety-four. Ninety-three, he stopped





walking. He was probably down for about maybe five or six months before he died. But he walked, and I mean at a very brisk pace. It was difficult to keep up with him! [Laughter] And he’d walk, and he'd stop and observe. I think he marveled at how much the city had grown in his lifetime. And he loved property. He would look at property, and if a bargain came along he would buy. So we might have been property-rich, but we were money-poor. But Granddaddy’s comment was, “One day.” We never got birthday presents, by the way. At Christmas we might have gotten maybe an orange. Not an orange. A candy, rather. Orange candy. The hard kind with the soft centers. And I remember the first present I got from my godmother was a book—but then, well whatever. A book was really not something to be prized, because we had a whole library. If you can recall the lawyer libraries with the glass cases, and each one sat on the othe,r and then you opened them up? So, we had all these books. I can recall there was a safe in that middle room, and there was also a sewing machine, and then there was a hall tree that had a seat. And the seat lifted up, and there were books in there. And so, there were books all over the house. And you can imagine growing up and wanting to know what was in those books. I wasn’t just satisfied to look at the pictures; I wanted to know what they said, and what was there. I remember Granddaddy saying something about that was Livingston, and that was something that happened in Africa. And, I mean, I just worried: “Everybody read to me,” “Read to me!” And I guess I was so anxious to learn how to read. My sister was in school, she's six years older than I am. And I decided one day I was going to show up in her classroom. And so, I wandered





away—my Granddaddy wasn't there. [Laughter] Wandered away, went to the school. Kind of crawled in, stealthily, and kind of got there between the aisles. And she looked out and saw me, and she was about ready to just—ah! She was ready to—she was furious. But she couldn’t say anything. And, of course, this is a Catholic school. And so I sat there, and I’m sure the kids started sniggling, and finally the teacher looked over, and say, “Well, what do we have here?” But, surprising enough, I wasn’t asked to leave. I guess that my sister was so embarrassed! And, of course, I remember afterwards as we were going home, she says, “Don’t you ever do that to me again!” And I thought, “Okay." I thought it was pretty cool. But then, somehow people started taking a little bit more interest in me, and making sure that I did get read to and that, you know, I got my intellectual curiosity satisfied. Ironically enough, I started Catholic school—and I know that would’ve been the worst thing could happen today. I probably started school at about four or five. And they had primary back in those days. And I remember that was the most exciting thing: to go to school. And I loved all of my teachers. I didn’t think it was anything unusual that they all wore these black dresses—the nuns’ outfits and everything. [Laughter] And they were very stern. But it was a wonderful learning environment. I can remember skipping a grade.

Because I mean, I got bored pretty quickly, starting so early. And so, I hated when I had to leave parochial school in eighth grade and start the public school. And I thought, “This is terrifying!” There were twelve kids in my graduating class, and they were all from families that really were very caring and protective of their children. Suddenly, I’m in with all of these children, and it was just like, I was





spellbound. I was struck absolutely speechless. So much so that I remember sitting in the History class, and I was afraid to open my mouth, because we had been taught you spoke when you were asked a question. And I never volunteered. And, of course, back in those days the teachers would go down the aisle, and they’d say, “Well, okay Mary, what’s the answer?” And when they got to me, I'd always answer the question. And I guess she looked at me and said, “Hm, something's wrong with this kid or something.” She was nasty! I’d always do well on the written tests and so forth. But then, too, as large as Tampa was, it was a small village. So everybody knew everyone else, and so they’d say, “Oh, that’s Warren Vesta’s daughter.” And throughout my entire life I was labeled "Warren Vesta’s daughter.” I had no idea what that meant, but I knew one thing: most guys were terrified, because my dad had a little lasso in him, and he could lose his temper in a heartbeat. Especially when it came to his wife and his family. Oh, he was just absolutely very, very passionate about that. I remember one guy came who was working with my father, and he looked at us and said, “Warren, you have some beautiful daughters.” Why did he say that? My dad went in a rage! “Don’t you look at my daughters!” [Laughter] And of course, my stepmother by that time came in, and she said, “Warren, he didn’t mean anything.” And I think Daddy almost was about ready to fire him. I never that guy anymore, by the way. Just to give you kind of an idea of what it was like: we had friends who went to school with us. Everybody who came to the house, you had to give you background: Who are you? Whose child are you? Where did you come from?





That sort of thing. So, everything was very monitored, censored. That was back in the time where books were banned in Boston.

	B:	I don’t know about that, tell me about that.



	I:	You didn’t know about that? Oh, if a book had anything immoral in it—remember now, I came from a very strict Catholic background. Only because my aunts and insisted that we go to a Catholic school. They paid for our tuition. They are all northerners and everything. But they insisted that the three of us would be given a Catholic education. Now, I don’t know how much you know about Catholic education, but you’re given a lot of religion as well as academics. And, naturally, church was a very much a part of it, as well as prayer. So, we came up very religious, very moral. You know, sin was the worst thing in the world. And so, there were books that we were not allowed to read. If it was on that list of books, you didn’t read those books under penalty of sin. So a lot of people didn’t read those books. If it was banned in Boston—which was kind of like the archdiocese, as such, of the Catholic Church—it wasn't something you were supposed to read. There were passages in there, whatever, that were not appropriate, so you didn't read them.

	B:	So, how was your family? Your family was Baptist and Methodist, and you went to a Catholic school? Was there any kind of debates?

	I:	That was because all of my aunts and uncles by my grandmother’s previous marriage were all Catholics. And they were all northerners. And they were all, I guess, pretty well situated for that time. And so, they insisted not only that we go to school, but they sent the money, they sent the clothes, they sent everything.





So we were pretty well taken care of. So, as a parent you would say, “Well, if they’re doing all of this, why not concede?” And as a result of going to the Catholic school, we all became Catholic. Now I was the last one. I was a holdout. My dad said, “No, somebody’s got to go to church with me.” Until one day I, with the smart mouth that I have, said, “Wait a minute, Daddy. You don’t go to church.” And he kind of looked at me, and of course, you know how far to go, and I kind of conceded. But I think at some point, he finally decided he was tired of me nagging him. I was called a drama queen even before “drama queen” was popular. And I could put on a beg and a cry, and so he finally relented. I think I was in about sixth grade—which was unheard of, because—. Finally, I became a Catholic, and I thought, “Oh my gosh, I’ve arrived. I’m in the Promised Land!” And, surprisingly enough, until I got to my freshman year in college, I really thought I was going to be a nun. I did. I was the proverbial sixteen year-old graduate from high school. Never been kissed, never been on a date. Well, I guess you could say never been on a date, because—I have to tell you about my senior prom. My stepmother had bought this gown, and Dad said, “Are you going to the prom?” And I said, “Yes, I'm going to the prom.” He says, “Who’s taking you?” And I said, “Willie George.” And he said, “Who is Willie George?” I said, “He’s the salutatorian of the class.” Well, Daddy was very impressed by education. "Oh, really? Well, I want to meet him before he takes you to the prom.” And so, I guess that was impressive. So Willie George came by, and Daddy met him. Daddy took a look at him and said, “Okay. All right.” And it wasn’t that far, we didn't go in a car. The prom was at the Cuban Hall Patio, and





it was out in open air. And we were all dancing and having a good time. And all of the sudden I looked around—it was around twelve, and I really felt like Cinderella, I kid you not. I look up, and there's my dad standing there. And he said—and my name was Isabel, as far as family's concerned; Mae Isabel, it got shortened to Mae—“Let’s go.” I said, “Daddy!" He said, “I told you, let’s go.” You didn’t argue with my dad. So I waved goodbye to my friends and I went home. I said, “Daddy, why did you come and mess up my night?” And he said, well, there was a shooting across the street at some bar, and he was in the neighborhood— as I told you we were never really out of their sight—and he might have felt that I was in danger, and that was not about to happen. So he whisked me out of there and I went home, probably right around 12 o’clock, from the prom.

	B:	Did you ever find out what the shooting was about? Did you find out more details?

	Y:	No. In those days you had places that were called, kind of like, buckets of blood. Bucket of blood or whatever? Yeah. And you could have a shooting or a stabbing all the time. You knew not to go anywhere near there, and parents were very protective. You didn’t go near those places. But it was across the street from where the Cuban Hall Patio was. The Cuban Hall Patio was kind of like maybe a hotel ballroom would be for proms now, or like the Reitz Union. Everything was okay in there. But he wanted to control not only what went on inside but what went on outside as well. And if something went on outside that he didn’t like, that was it. You're going home. He could control home, but he couldn’t control what was going on in that neighborhood. And I thought, “Oh gosh, here we go again!”





To show you how strict things were, I can remember going away to college, coming back my sophomore year, and I went out with some friends. And we were sitting in a diner. It was around 2 o’clock in the morning. I don't know where we had gone—probably the movie, and we'd gone out to a club or two. And we were having breakfast. In walked my dad. And he said, “Shouldn’t you be home?” [Laughter] And I said, “Daddy!” So he pulled me aside, and he said, “You can either leave now with me, or you better be home in X amount of time.” So I chose to quietly say, “I think I better go home.” So I left. He would do that to me time and time again. To the point where, on my twenty-first birthday, I remember going into a bar, and I was with a guy that I was dating, and I wanted a scotch.

And the bartender came over and he looked at the guy that I was with, and he looked at me, and he said, "I’m not going to serve you." I said, "I’m twenty-one, what do you mean you’re not going to serve me?” And the guy looked at me and he said “You’re Warren Vesta’s daughter.” And so I had to leave. So, to get back at my dad, I asked the guy to stop by a package store, and buy a small bottle of liquor. And when I went home that night, I was going to be very brave. He said, “Did you have a good time?” I said, “No, they refused to serve me in Watt Sanders' because they knew I was your daughter. And since I couldn’t have a drink there, I brought some liquor home so you can have a drink with me.” My dad looked at me, and that look was enough for—! [Laughter] Oh, I ran to the bedroom, and I thought, “God, I hope he doesn't kill me.” He didn't kill me but he didn’t speak to me for a whole week. He just kind of looked at me as if to say, “I wonder, what kind of monster have I brought into this world?” [Laughter] And I





think sometimes the silent treatment was worse than had he said anything. But he did loosen up a little bit after that. I think I hit him where it hurt. He realized I could get alcohol if I wanted to drink it. Now, the irony of it is, alcohol was not something that we were not exposed to. First of all, after church on Friday nights, the priest would sit there with some of my friends' parents and they would have a glass of wine, or a glass of scotch. I mean, Catholics are very liberal with their attitudes toward alcohol. And so are other religions, although they don’t admit it. But, we had a bar, and when my mom and dad entertained, they had alcohol.

And we would watch from upstairs, look down from the balcony and see what was going on. It sounded like they were having such a good time and we were not allowed to come downstairs. Maybe at the beginning we would be introduced, but then it was back upstairs you went, and you were never to be see again. And then of course, we did experiment. But at Christmas, at meals, Daddy always had his beer, and Granddaddy always drank his glass of wine. Always, always.

He said that probably helped him to live the long life that he did. And we were allowed to taste wine. I remember growing up with Manischewitz, and— there’s another one I can’t think of right now—Mogen David! Mogen David. We were allowed to sample those. They were sweet and—maybe just about that much at Christmastime or special occasions. So we grew up around alcohol, so probably one of the reasons I guess we never abused it was because it was like anything else. But that was pretty much it. But one of the things I particularly remember about my grandfather was that he used to tell this story about when he was a little boy, about eight or nine, and they were living in Pensacola, that this man





from Louisiana—he was an attorney—came to visit my great-grandfather. His father. And they were sitting around and he was curious as to what kind of education people had in Florida. And, of course, at that time, you were lucky if you had seventh or eighth grade, because after that period of time you could probably teach. And at that point in history, they were having land-grant colleges, grants for colleges to train African Americans in agriculture, mechanical things, practical things. And also for teaching. And this man mentioned to my grandfather’s father that maybe they should do something like that in Florida.

And he said, “You know, it’s worth a try.” So they had this conversation, and—I might mention that the reason the man was visiting my grandfather was that my grandfather’s father was a shrimper. He had a fleet of shrimping boats. I think three. And they came into New Orleans and caught the market dry, as Granddaddy put it. So, they made a killing. And Granddaddy’s daddy, my great grandfather, had been out, I guess, at sea quite some time. I guess maybe they went out for long periods, and then when they came back, he was anxious to get back to Pensacola to his family. So he asked this guy to take care of the business end of it for him. And then he came over and settled up with my grandfather. And it was interesting because, when I think about it, we're talking about the late 1800s. And there were Black attorneys, and there were Black businessmen, and there were people who were successful. I’m sure it probably didn’t make the carpetbaggers very happy. No, the carpetbaggers were the guys from up North, right?

	B:	I think so.





	I:	I’m not sure. But anyway. They lived very well. And so, some of the things that other people, I guess, wonder about, we just pretty much took for granted, and didn’t realize it. Even when things were very scarce—and I'm a child of the Depression, remember. I was born in 1935, and shortly after that things were really very hard for most people. But we always managed to survive. I might mention that by trade, my grandfather was a cigar maker in Tampa. And that was pretty big. Tampa is called the “Cigar City.” And I can remember him telling about how when the cigar makers worked, they had a person who read to the cigar makers. You know, that was the entertainment. And they rolled the cigars and everything, and this person would read. Also, there was a person who sat up very high in what might have been called a watchtower. And they would watch for the boats that came in. And when the boats came in, this person who was watching would just sound the alarm, and then everybody would know this boat had come in from Cuba or wherever with the tobacco and whatever other goodies came that from tobacco. I might also add that we lived in what probably would have been called the fringe of Ybor City. Ybor City literally started at Nebraska, and went all the way to 22nd. And we were about two blocks west of Nebraska. I might mention that all of the people who lived on my street were pretty much people who were self-employed or professionals. My godmother’s father was a doctor, across the street from us was a seamstress, down the street was a gentleman who taught piano to my sister. I did not learn very well, I was not the kind who could take the lesson. I wanted to play by ear. So when my sister played, I’d pick up where she said—now sitting there trying to learn the





notes just did not work. I don’t know. I had, as I look back on it, a pretty happy family life.

	B:	It’s almost like a storybook. Your grandfather was a cigar maker. Your great- grandfather was a shrimper. Do you know how it was that your great-grandfather, well, how your grandfather grew up in Pensacola but came down to Tampa, Ybor City?

	I:	That has never been quite clear to me. I know that my grandmother came from Key West.

	B:	Okay.



	I:	And I also know because, about fifteen years ago, I discovered that the historical society in Tampa did a book on African Americans in Tampa, in the Tampa area. And one of my friends called me and told me that she had bought the book, and there was a chapter in there on my family. So I went to Tampa, and bought a book for my sister and my brother and for me so that we could pass that information down to our family. I wish I had known I was going to be talking about this today; I might have had the book. Because it explained that at one point, I guess after his shrimping days, my great-grandfather became a Methodist minister. And Methodist ministers travelled. So, he probably travelled from Pensacola to Key West, and from Key West to Bartow. Now, I understand he was quite a minister in his time. And that's only because—not because anybody said that, but that was documented in the book. So I found out a lot of things about my family that I guess that they just didn’t feel like the details were necessary. But that was why we did this route all around Tampa.





	B:	Okay. Now I know you’ve got some questions about her grandmother who had— M:	Well, yeah. Do you know much about your grandmother’s history? I mean, Key

West is an interesting place, too.



	I:	You know, growing up we would go visit different family members. And there were some aunts who lived in what was then called Robles Pond. And years later, I met one of the children of one of the aunts. And I went to visit him— because at that time, I had very few relatives alive—and it was so interesting. I thought about recording it, and I said to my sister, “I should record this.” Because he told us the story of my grandmother, and how she was related to this woman who was Spanish in origin. And he even called her name, it was Maria Something-Another. And how beautiful she was. And he talked about how they married and came to Tampa. And I had other relatives that were a part of that migration from St. Augustine to there. And probably, that had a lot to do with the Catholicism running through the family. Because I remember my cousin, who now lives in Orlando, was also a student at the Catholic school. And you’ll have to remember that these people tend—just like Spanish people today—to stick together very closely. They keep in touch, they share customs, they eat a lot together, they visit together. It’s very, very close. I won’t say clannish, but it’s very close. Okay? So, you get to know a lot about each other. But as kids, it didn’t seem important to us. They were just family. But as I look back at it now, I wish I had really documented that. Because at the time I went to visit this relative, he was elderly, and he was telling us all of these things, and I was saying to my sister, “We should really record this.” And I’m so sorry I didn’t. But, you know,





young people are not interested in anything about their parents. Or grandparents. And when I would sit down and talk to my son or my granddaughter, they would go, “Huh?” And you could only do this if the lights went out and nothing worked. [Laughter] Then you had their undivided attention! But, you mean if the television played? They didn't want to hear about that. “Oh, that was old-timey. We don’t want to hear about that. Did you walk to school, five miles and everything?”

	B:	In the snow? [Laughter]



	I:	That was just not something of any interest to them at all.



	M:	Well, they say that now, but when they get older they may start to care. That’s how it always goes.

	I:	As you look at interest in Ancestry.com, everybody now suddenly wants to find out about their ancestors. I mean, it just wasn’t the thing to do then. But now, it’s important. And now sometimes we find people who are contacting us from the past that we didn’t know about. Someone from my husband’s family contacted me from South Carolina. I knew he was from South Carolina, I knew he was from Darlington. But when I met him, he was this dashing Marine who was on leave, who was dressed up in this uniform. And this just happened to be the same time that my brother, who was also a Marine, was home, and he had on his dress.

And we got separated, and I remember seeing this guy. I called him, I said “William!” And he didn’t answer. And I thought, “Has my brother gotten stuck up?” I ran up to him, and I slapped him as hard as I could in the back, and he turned around, and I went, “Oh! I thought you were my brother!” And I said, “There’re two of you!” [Laughter] And he said, “Well, I was looking for him, I understand





there's another jarhead around here." I said, "That's my brother! And I thought—” They shipped out at the same time. In other words, they caught the same bus wherever they were going. Parris Island, wherever. And so, he asked for my address, and if he could write. And so he started writing. Eleven and a half years, we corresponded. He was in the Marines, I was in school. And I answered his letters, kind of perfunctory or whatever. But I never knew that in those eleven and a half years, he would call my grandfather and find out where I was and what I was doing. And, of course, he always told people I ran after him. That's how I got him. And I thought, “Nut!” [Laughter]

	B:	And what was his name? I:	Albert Augustus Islar III.

	B:	With a family from South Carolina?



	I:	Yeah. I thought it was so pretentious. [Laughter] “The third?” Give me a break! I'd never say that to anybody before him! And I said, “I refuse to have my son named Albert Augustus!” So, we compromised. Mark was Mark Albert Islar. My son.

	B:	Okay.



	I:	Unh-uh. That was going a bit much. He had a few airs about him, too. B:	We’ll definitely get into his story, too.

	I:	[Laughter]



	B:	And so, do you mind clarifying what your grandfather—well, if you can remember your great-grandfather’s name, what their names were?





	I:	It was interesting! They were all Warrens. My grandfather was Warren Calhoun Vesta. My dad was Warren William Vesta. And my brother was Warren Wendell Vesta. So, they kept the “Warren” part, they simply changed the middle name. My grandfather, we always called him “Granddaddy.” My daddy was called “Daddy Warren.” And my brother was Wendell, so he wouldn’t get confused with my dad. But they believed in passing those names along.

	B:	And what about your grandmother’s name?



	I:	My grandmother’s name was Hattie. Hattie Elizabeth. So, my sister was named Flora Elizabeth. I had an aunt who was named Isabel, so I was named after her. And when I went to school, they called me Mae Isabel. So the Isabel got lost, and I just became Mae. But her name was Hattie Elizabeth Williams. And that was her married name. Now, what her maiden name was, I don’t know. Because all of her children, the five children that she had, were Williams before they married.

	M:	And you mentioned she had some Indian ancestry? Did she identify— I:	Which Indian?

	M:	Or just identify strongly with it at all? Was it an important—



	I:	No. Not really. No. You could look at her and tell that she had Indian mixed with her. And you could also see the Spanish part, as well as the African American part. I don’t know that that was that unusual, because there was a very close affinity between Indians and African Americans and the Spanish. And back in that era, considering the time frame, I would say that was fairly normal.

	M:	Yeah. It sounds fairly normal. Just wondering. Another point of clarification, I might have missed it. But where did you go to school? College?





	I:	Florida A&M University. Where else? That was considered the family university.



Are you kidding? [Laughter] I went to school there, my sister went to school there. My brother was not into school, so Daddy said, “You have a choice: you either go to college or you go in Service.” So he chose the Service, which is why he went in the Marines. My aunt godmother’s sister was the Dean of Women at Florida A&M University. She was there when I arrived. So we kind of consider, “That’s our school.” Had it not been for my great-granddaddy, it wouldn’t have been there! [Laughter]

	B:	And you mentioned your stepmother. How did she come into the picture?



	I:	My mother died when I was about between two and three years old. Everyone says I look like her, I act like her. You know, I had that—whatever they call it. She was very active in the community. And during that time, Tampa always celebrates Gasparilla and you have the fair. They had a section that was just for the Blacks. And she pretty much worked with that section. And I think the weather was very bad. She was the kind of person that if she made a commitment, she was going to stick with it. She got wet, she got sick. People died during that time because the cold turned to pneumonia, and pneumonia could be fatal. I can recall as a little kid being brought into her bed, and I wanted to stay there. And Daddy said no. I can remember very distinctly her telling me, “Be a good girl.”

	B:	Wow, you remember that today? Oh, my goodness. And so do you think back about that and think—today, she would have lived. Have you ever thought about had she been born in any other time period?





	I:	Sure. Sure.



	B:	Wow.



	I:	Mmhm. So many people died then. I can recall kids coming along who had polio. And I saw something recently saying we pretty much wiped that out, but if all of the children in the world are not immunized, it could recur. And that’s so true. The same is true with tuberculosis. People died from tuberculosis, untreated illnesses. I recall we had a family doctor. And I recall doctors during that time made house calls. I remember getting a splinter in my foot because the thing I enjoyed most was going barefoot. I still do. I love to go barefoot. [Laughter] Anyway. I got a splinter in my foot. And most of the time, people didn’t call doctors for little things like that. They would get the needle and they'd pull it out or whatever. You know, sterilize it. They did know about the alcohol and burning it. But this must have been pretty deep, because they had to call the doctor. And I remember the doctor coming to the house, and taking care of my foot and bandaging it. I also remember that, as I said, my parents were pretty social. But they took us wherever they went, except they liked to entertain in the home because then they didn’t have to worry about who was watching us. But then, of course, my grandfather was there. So, it was like we had built-in baby sitters.

But, anyway, at this particular night, they were going to visit another family. And I remember riding on my dad’s back, and I thought that was the coolest thing! [Laughter] You see pictures of the dads where they're having the kids on their shoulders? And Daddy carried me because I couldn’t walk. And I just thought that was the greatest thing. I probably milked that for a long time. [Laughter]





	B:	So, did you know your mother’s parents? Did you ever get to know your grandparents on her side?

	I:	Yes. I met my grandmother. My grandmother lived in Tampa. Her name was Fannie. And she had married a guy who was just absolutely adorable. He worked at the farmer’s market, and there’s still a farmer’s market on Hillsborough in Tampa. And I can remember him walking to that farmer’s market every day. And his pay was fifty cents a day. But Grandmother just loved us to death. As most grandmothers, she spoiled us. And in order to get to her house, Daddy either had to take us in the car, or we’d have to ride the streetcar. Luckily, the streetcar was two blocks from my house, and it came right in front of her house. But you had to get off on what was then Lake Avenue. So any time we got to go and spend time with my grandma, she would just pamper us to death. And me especially, I guess because I look so much like my mother. I was spoiled rotten, there’s no question about that. I loved taffy candy, and she would make taffy, and there was nothing better than pulling taffy candy. Oh my god! And I remember the pump outside, because that was how they got water. And you had to prime the pump. I remember the outhouses and I was afraid to go in there. So I didn’t have to go to the outhouse, you know? I used the chamber pot. And, by the way, they had beautiful chamber pots in those days. They came in sets. Every bedroom had a pitcher and a big washbowl. You had a washstand. The back of it held the towels, and you had the basin that was ceramic, and you had the pitcher that you put your water in, and you had the matching soap dishes. And then you had a chamber pot that matched that. And it had a top on it. And so, that was what you





used that at night. And then in the morning, you’d get up and you'd empty your chamber pot. Because nobody got up in the night and walked around and everything. But it was, you know, that was just the norm. If you had an indoor bathroom, you were really uptown. I remember we had one of the first indoor bathrooms on our street. We were like, "Oh, we're putting in an indoor bathroom!"

	B:	Do you remember what year that was?



	I:	Oh my gosh, I have no idea. I probably was about four, so I’d say that was probably in the late 1930s?

	B:	Mmhm.



	I:	Now, I’m thinking the commode was there, but when I say “indoor bathroom,” I’m talking about a tub, porcelain tub. Because prior to that, Saturday night, you got in that tin tub in the kitchen and took your bath. And, literally, Saturday night was bath night. Now, as children, because you play all the time, you had to take a bath every night before you got in the bed. Because you didn’t dare get in Momma’s clean sheets. Oh no you didn’t! Unh-uh! Oh, my heavens, no! [Laughter] Better not go to bed dirty! And wash day was really something to look forward to. Everybody washed on Monday, pretty much. Ironed on Tuesday.

Cleaned the house on Wednesday. And cooked on Saturday. Because Sunday you didn’t do a whole lot of cooking. Food was cooked on Saturday night, pretty much, if it took a long time. Because when people came home from church, they were ready to eat.

	B:	And so I can imagine Sundays were a social day.





	I:	If you were Protestant, you stayed in church all day. The good thing about being Catholic was, we would go to 7 or 9 o’clock mass; one hour later, we were out. [Laughter] And we were allowed to play, but other children weren’t. We would go to church with them to their BYPU or whatever their youth groups were. So we would go with them, but it was a time for sitting around. And by that time we had a radio. I remember when we got a radio. We were the first ones on the block to get the radio. And people came—I remember the fight, I think it was Joe Louis and somebody—and everybody was sitting on our front porch. The radio was in the living room right there in the corner. The windows were open, we didn’t have air conditioning then. And all these people were clustered out there listening to this fight. I’m trying to think, it was Joe Louis and Max Schmeling?

	B:	We can look it up. I:	Yeah, I think so.

	B:	Interesting.



	I:	And, of course, it was pretty interesting because Max Schmeling was White, Joe Louis was Black. So you can imagine what a big to-do that was.

	B:	So what was your dad’s official profession? What would he have said his profession was?

	I:	Daddy could do anything. And did anything. For a greater portion of his life, since he—remember my grandfather had two sons, my dad and his brother, Lorenzo. His brother Lorenzo was killed when he was very young. He had roller skates, and he skated over a downed electrical wire, and was electrocuted. And my grandfather was just heartbroken. As a result of that, we grew up with no skates





and no bicycles. We were just not allowed to ride them. Now, my brother, being the boy he was, he had skates. And I remember the scooters with the skates on them, two pieces of lumber, and so forth. He could do that as long as he stayed on the sidewalk in front of our house. Okay? That was okay, but you could not leave that block. See, that’s what happened with my uncle. He was skating out there by the Cuban Hall Patio, and he was too far away from home. And so that accounted for a lot of the protectiveness—you just did not get out of their sight. They were just devastated by that loss. So, that left my dad as an only child. As I will have to admit, and my grandfather later admitted, he was the apple of his eye. And he spoiled him, he really did. I can remember several jobs that he worked on: I remember he worked at the post office, in what was the federal building. He was an elevator operator there. He met my stepmother because he worked at the Hillsborough Hotel, and she worked there as a maid. He worked there in some capacity, I guess whatever people do in hotels. And I remember during the war, he worked at MacDill, which was the base. And he was also the neighborhood warden, during World War II. I think he retired from the post office. I remember he retired from the post office. But in the afternoons, after he got off—because I think he went to work early, and even when he was working at MacDill—he also worked at the Tampa Yacht and Country Club. He was the head waiter out there. So when I mention the guys that would come by the house, he was the one who got the wait crew that worked at the yacht club. And I can remember on one or two occasions, I went out and worked there. And it was interesting to see how the other half lived. I guess I should have been impressed,





but I definitely wasn’t. Maybe it was because I had the ladies room. [Laughter] I pretty much stood outside, I’ll tell you that, because it can get pretty crowded in there! I still think women get a rough shake when it comes to equality in the bathroom. Men have better facilities than we do. When women go in there, it can get pretty crowded. But it was interesting, because I got to see an awful lot of big name entertainers. Sammy Kaye, Guy Lombardo, all those people played there. And I think Daddy wanted us to get a chance to see how the other half lived. And also, sometimes he would come over and he would say, “Now, this is such and such a liquor.” Not that I got any at that time, but I think it was just to say, “This is bottled and bonded, and this is so many proof or whatever.” And I thought, “Okay, all right.” I really got an education that, I guess, if I had been an alcohol drinker, would have meant an awful lot. But, see, Daddy being a bartender and all that, it was important to him, and I thought, “Okay, whatever.” That sort of thing. But it was interesting, you know. And Daddy liked that kind of music.

Because on Sunday afternoon we would swing and sway with Sammy Kaye and Guy Lombardo. We were very eclectic in our musical tastes. And, of course, right on the corner from us was this juke joint that blasted away all night long, and we would hear all the blues and everything! [Laughter] And then, of course, with our Catholic background we got all this liturgical music. There were teas in the auditorium on Sunday, none of the Catholic people were there. This was an auditorium that was used for all the social occasions. It was the largest place there was. And so, I remember going to an awful lot of teas, just because the cookies were good and so was the punch. And then of course, they had





programs, and people would do readings, and they would sing. So it was a cultural education of sorts. And, of course, when I went to college, you had to go to vespers. And so, you got all this exposure to classical music. I just feel like we were just given a lot of things that we took for granted.

	B:	This sort of brings us into race relations, because you grew up in what would have been a segregated America. Do you remember or have any recollections of what it was like?

	I:	Race?



	B:	Yeah.



	I:	Interesting. We lived on Estelle Street. There was an alley separating us, and there were all Whites who lived behind us. And kids don’t know [inaudible 51:43]! [Laughter] I remember the Hamiltons lived behind us. Their dad was a bus driver. And we had the better yard—we had all the fruit trees and everything. So those kids came over and played with us, we played for a long time. And nobody ever thought anything of it. Their folks didn’t. But I'm thinking at some point, somebody probably said, “That’s not a good idea for those kids to be playing together like that.” And, all of a sudden, as we got older, we got further and further apart. The relationship changed. They would always wave at us, and we would wave at them, but we were never the carefree, innocent kids as kids are, that played and had a good time together, swinging in the trees and that kind of stuff. So, and then you’ll have to remember going to Catholic school all of my teachers, except for two, were White. And we would make trips out to the convent, and visit kids there. We thought we had it a whole lot better because their accommodations





were very spartan. But they were kids just like us, so we played, and we never thought anything about it. Our church has always been integrated. And then, too, you’ll have to remember, with the Spanish population? There were Spaniards there, the Italians. I won’t say they didn’t care anything about race, but race was never in Tampa that much of an issue. Plus, you’ll have to remember, there were a lot of Blacks who looked light enough to pass, and some of them did. Now, if we wanted something and it was a place we couldn’t go, we’d send one of our buddies to go in and get it. So, you know, it wasn’t something—and I’ll have to be honest with you, I know this isn’t widely known. But my granddaddy would say, “Few Whites and no Blacks have thus, thus, and thus.” So we were kind of in a group where we were privileged and didn’t even know it. You know, as I say, when I look at those people, all of those people owned their homes, all of them had automobiles. All of them lived well. They wore nice clothes and they ate well. Families kind of—they were generational. You could have two or three generations in one household because the houses were large. I remember the Walkers, the maiden aunt lived there. They came from Philadelphia originally, and talked a little funny. But they were very fair, and their father could have passed any day he wanted to. I don’t even remember—I think they worked on the railroad. And so, I don’t know. I didn’t grow up with a lot of emphasis on Black, White, or whatever. We were happy being what we were. And I guess I never really noticed. I can remember going to a Gasparilla parade once, and we were sitting there, and these people came and they were very rude. And I thought “Hm.” I guess I was lucky enough not to let my smart mouth—I could have gotten





lynched or something. Because I mean, if you were rude, you were just rude. "Excuse me?" But I don’t know. I remember looking that time and I wanted to say something. They looked at us as if we were different. And that was the first time I really felt the sting of—you know, I wanted to tell her, “You were very rude to stand in front of us when we were already here.” But they felt like it was their right. And I thought that was so unjust and so unfair as a child. But I didn’t dare say anything. But I just kind of looked at them and said, “You know what? You have no manners, and I don't think you’re as good as you think you are.” Now, I rationalize that, but I remember thinking I wasn’t impressed with them at all. And I may have grown up with a great deal of that attitude, that you were only as good as you behaved. In fact, we were told that so much that, you know, beauty is only skin deep? And pretty is as pretty does? Old people at that time had a saying for everything. You know? And you were really pretty much taught to look beyond appearances; you couldn’t judge people on appearances. We were never allowed to say things like "Black" in our home. You were going get your fanny whipped, and I do mean whipped. Then you had to out and pick your own switch! That was no fun. And don’t bring back a little one! [Laughter]

	B:	Or a breakable one. [Laughter]



	I:	No. We didn’t get whippings or spankings often, but when we did, they were memorable. Because old folks at that time would save up all of the things. And when they would start whipping: "And you remember when you did so-and-so?" So you got one that lasted, you know. And they brought back all the—you might get about seven, eight licks, and that was it. It wasn’t that they were killing you.





And I often look at people who say, “Well, you know, you shouldn’t strike children.” I think that’s absolutely ridiculous. There are some times when you just really have to get a child’s attention, and I don’t think there’s anything—I didn’t die because I got a couple of spankings. And neither did either of my friends. I think we were better off. And I think they would say things like “I would rather discipline you than have someone else do it.” You needed to learn how to behave, how to be a well-behaved individual. That went further than anything.

You just didn’t go out there and act like an idiot, because you didn’t want to disgrace your family.

	B:	Right. Well, let’s move on to your college years, then. When did you start school, what did you major in, when’d you graduate?

	I:	I graduated in [19]52, and as I was telling someone, my class still gets together. We’re very close-knit. I left high school, and it wasn’t any question where I was going; I went to A&M. My first time away from home. Kids complain about college now. I thought it was wonderful. All the freedom! [Laughter] I just thought it was great. We had curfews, though. I remember freshmen having to be in at six o’clock. So we would sit in the windows and watch all the other people and wonder, “One day we'll be able to walk on campus after six o’clock.” I guess I was a good student. One of the things that I will have to say: the benefits of a Catholic education are so tremendous that everybody in our family, all of our children, were recipients of a Catholic education. Because it’s a no-nonsense approach. I think it not only gives you a strong academic background, but it also gives you a strong moral background as well. Generally speaking. Of course, we





were devils, too, like everybody else. We have our failings. But it’s something about it. I know my granddaughter went to a Catholic school until she got in fifth grade, I guess middle school. Of course, there weren’t any options then. Now they have a middle school. She could have stayed at St. Patrick’s until she was in, I believe, eighth grade because a number of kids would come to the public schools. But she decided she was tired of wearing the uniform, and she wanted to be with the other kids. And so she, after fifth grade, went to public education. And I think that—I worked in public education, I have to be a proponent of public education. I think any education, public or private, is only as good as the teachers are committed to whatever it is that they’re doing. And contrary to a lot of popular notion, it is not an easy job, and people do not go into it for the money. There are a whole lot easier ways to make money than teaching. I don’t think anybody could survive if they didn’t like it. And the ones who go into it with that notion quickly burn out and find something else to do. But I guess education has always been a big part of my life, so I knew—well, I thought that I was going to be different. I liked science. Someone had approached my dad, I think the guidance counselor, that I had a chance to go to the University of Chicago and major in public health. And my dad said, “Definitely not. She’s not going that far away from home, and it’s cold up there. No! Definitely, she’s not going to Chicago.” [Laughter] We had a lot of aptitude tests and that sort of thing when we were going through. I remember a Spanish teacher saying, “Knowledge is power. You want to make sure you know as much as you can know.” He was Spanish.

Dr. Fernandez. So I got a Louis State scholarship, which meant that I was





supposed to teach. So here I am taking these science courses thinking that I want to go into science, and then suddenly my advisor says, “You know you have to go into education. So if you want science, it’s going to have to be science education.” And I thought, “Unh-uh. That’s watered down.” Science majors have pure science background. If you’re going to get science education, you’re going to get this watered-down version of it, and I didn’t want any of that. So I said, “Well okay, I’m changing my major.” And so at the end of my sophomore year, I changed my major to English. I said, “If I got to get a degree, it's going to be in something that I enjoy doing.” And I liked to read, so that’s why I went into English. Because they couldn’t throw anything at me that I didn't thoroughly enjoy. You had to read a book—I could do one in one night because I was happy. [Laughter] Other kids would groan and moan, and I thought—. And it was pretty much the same in graduate school, too, because my Master’s was in English Education at FSU. By the way, I guess I’m so concerned about scholarships because all of my education was paid for by scholarships or fellowships. And every organization that I work in, usually I find myself gravitating toward the scholarship committee. I want to see kids who probably would have a hard time going to school get a chance to go if they deserve it. To me, that’s the most important thing we can do for our young people, is to make that they get a chance. Because there is so many good kids out there that never get a chance, who have talent that just goes—. Like the United Negro College Fund: “A Mind is a Terrible Thing to Waste.” So, my passion is going to be getting scholarship money to kids, and making sure the kids get the same advantage that I did.





Because my parents didn’t have to pay a dime for my education. And that’s so important. And there are many kids now who have that same philosophy. It’s worth investing in your youngsters very early, because that investment will pretty much pay for itself.

	B:	And that’s something that you were able to pursue through education, through being an educator?

	I:	Right.



	B:	So, tell us about your career as an educator.



	I:	Hm. Well, my first job was in DeLand. It was supposed to be in Gainesville, interestingly enough. Because I interned in Gainesville. I interned because I had relatives here, and so I could live with them. And I interned at Lincoln High School. And thoroughly enjoyed it. I interned with the wife of A. Quinn Jone,s and they’re honoring him now. And of course, they lived right across the street. Most of the teachers lived on that street. The Hightowers lived right next door to them. I had a wonderful internship experience at Lincoln.

	B:	What year was that? Sorry.



	I:	I graduated in 1956. So, I had worked during the summer in Tampa, and I worked for Mr. Falk who owned Falk' Department Store. And he was pretty influential, and he was impressed, and he said, “Now, when you finish, if you want a job, you let me know. I’ll make sure you get a job in Tampa.” And I must say, back in that time it wasn’t what you knew, it was who you knew that got you a job. So I knew I had a job in Tampa if I wanted one. I could have gotten a job here. And being a scholarship winner, I knew I had to go wherever the first job





opened up. So I was asked to interview in DeLand. And I interviewed with the principal there, and he outlined the job and everything. And I told him—I didn’t sign anything, but I thought, “Okay, all right, I’ve gotten this interview.” And then I got an interview here, with the director of personnel. And I went in to talk with him and we were talking, and I said, “By the way, I interviewed in DeLand.” He said, “Oh, you did?” I said “Yes.” And he said, “Did the principal outline to you what you would be teaching?” And I said, “Yes. He said tenth grade English.” He said, “Now, even though you didn’t sign a contract, you are morally bound. You could be blackballed.” I’m sitting there, listening. “Blackballed?” He said, “Yes. You pretty much promised that you were going to take that job, and you’re interviewing for this job.” And I thought, “Wow, I don’t want that to happen!” And it’s kind of interesting, because he said, “By the way, I noticed you never asked how much money you were going to be paid.” [Laughter] “No.” And he said, “Well, you know, you’d make more money in Volusia County.” And I said, “Really?” I said, "Well, I did put in an application in Broward County and Dade County, and they pay higher salaries.” I think they paid maybe four thousand dollars a year, and here in Alachua County it might have been about twenty- eight, and in Volusia County it might have been—now, this is just arbitrary figures—it might have been about thirty-four. So they did pay more than Alachua County did. And I said, “No, that never crossed my mind.” And he said, “Well, if I were you, I would take that job in Volusia County.” And I said, “Okay. All right.” He said, “And, by the way, I want to see you on the first day, when the teachers are there.” And I looked at him and said, “You want to see me on the first day?”





He said, “Oh, yes. By the way, I’m going to be assistant superintendent of Volusia County.” And I went, “Okay, I see.” And during that time, when I started, schools were segregated. And teachers were segregated, as well. So White teachers met, and the Black teachers had to meet. All the teachers in the county. And I can remember sitting in that auditorium on Campbell Street, I think it was. And I always sit in the back—it's a preference of mine for some reason. I think I know why, but anyway. I’m sitting in the back, on the aisle, and the program participants walk in. And he walks in and looks at me, and says, “Hi! I’m glad to see you made it!” And everybody looked around and said, “He knows you?” And I said, “Yeah.” [Laughter]

	B:	Long story. [Laughter]



	I:	[Laughter] Long story. I didn’t get into why or how. But I worked in DeLand for four years. I taught English and Spanish. And that brought some interesting benefits. Because of my Spanish background, one of my students won a trip to Cuba as a result of working with the Florida Times-Union. The people who were sponsoring the trip were afraid that as a Black kid, he might get separated, and they wanted to have a chaperone who spoke Spanish to make sure that he was not at a law. So I got to go to Cuba with one of my—well, he wasn't really a student of mine. He went to the school. And so, I got to be his chaperone.

	B:	And that was in the late [19]50s?



	I:	I’ll tell you how interesting it was: we were there for about four or five days. And we stayed in Havana, but we made side trips. We went to one of the—I think it was Batabanó, on the coast, a fishing village. And, of course, we got to go





through and see all the poverty that there was once you leave Havana. And I noticed that the people were very guarded in their speech. At the time, I didn’t think anything about it. I spoke Spanish; they would say some things to me that they would not normally say. I didn’t even notice the fact that there were people with guns at the top of some of the buildings. And the day that we were leaving, we were gathered out, and there were about six or so people in the party. And by the way, I was the only female. There were three White males, and three White students, and this Black kid, and me. And there were occasionally some times where people looked at me and wondered what I was doing with this group. And they would ask me in Spanish, and I was called some names I won’t dare repeat. But anyway, it wasn’t until we were—we were standing in front of the hotel, and this policeman comes up and stands by the side of the group as if he's listening. And I thought, “Wait a minute! Who are you and why are you standing there?” [Laughter] And then, of course, we saw a few more policemen than normal.

When we got ready to get on the plane, they asked me to open my purse, which was unusual. Now, this is back in the [19]50s. So I opened my purse, and we get on the plane, and we took off. We drove from Key West to DeLand. So, we were halfway to Miami when the news came that Castro had invaded Havana. And if we weren’t the last plane, we were close to the last plane out of Havana. Yeah. I thought, “Wow.” Close. Interesting. And I was also teaching in Miami when we had the Cuban Missile Crisis. [Laughter]

	B:	Okay! You’ve got to tell this story.





	I:	Well, it was kind of funny, because you have never seen so many Service people in one town. Miami at that time was a pretty busy town. They had a lot of socializing, and a lot of music figures came down there, and you could always go into a jazz place and guys would be having a jam. And they'd play the beach and we'd go over and watch them, and then they'd come back and do the after-hours thing. And I had some friends who were musicians, and so we got a chance to sit in on a lot of the sessions. But, anyway, the town was just jammed with military personnel, because I think it was like an invasion was imminent. It was one of those, I guess before a battle, everybody was having a good time. [Laughter]

	B:	Hurricane party.



	I:	Yeah it was! It really was. I mean, the clubs were crowded, the streets were crowded. And you just kind of wondered what was going to go on. And you kind of, a little, in the back of your mind kept saying, “You know, we're pretty close to Cuba.” But, then again, hey, ‘Eat, drink, be merry; tomorrow you may be dead.’ [Laughter] So, it was a very different kind of situation. But it wasn't a sad situation; it was just, you were sitting there wondering what's going to happen next. And I guess Khrushchev blinked, and so that was averted.

	B:	Were you aware of the fact that a nuclear bomb could land on Miami? Was that part of the public conscious? Or was it just like: we're gonna go to war with Cuba. Like, what was the thought?

	I:	You had all of those things, but it was just the unpredictability of the situation.



You just didn't know what was going to happen. And there's that faith that we can do all things as Americans, so why are we worried? The great protector, masters





of the universe, you know? Of course I had been to Cuba so I kind of felt like, “Hey, they don't stand a chance!” [Laughter] But anyway, it was an interesting time. It really was. And, like anything else, it dissipated, and people went back to where they were supposed to be, and life went on as normal. But there were about four or five months there when things were pretty tense.

	B:	And so now, looking at what's going on with our relation with Cuba now, what do you think? Is this kind of one of those moments where you realize you've seen the cycle? Or, how do you interpret what's going on today with Cuba?

	I:	I can understand why people all over the world have said “enough.” You look at certain levels of certain classes of people—the haves and the have-nots. When there's that great a divide between the have and the have-nots, eventually the have-nots are going get tired of it. And they going to say, “Enough already.” And Cuba was right for that. When you left Havana and the glamor of the clubs and the Americans that they saw—and, of course, the clubs were the equivalent of Las Vegas—you had classes of people. But once you left that, and you saw kids who were barefoot with extended bellies, who were hungry; people who barely— dirt. I mean, houses that had dirt floors. And you saw poverty the likes of which we'd never seen. And I think there just came a time when they said, “Enough of this, already!” It's time to give these people a break. And they had nothing to lose—they had nothing. So I can understand social revolution, I really can. And I've never been to Bahrain, I've had friends who have been there. And there's this wealth beyond your dreams, just excessive wealth. And also abject poverty. And when you have those extremes, at some point, somebody’s going come along





and say, “Okay. We can do better than this.” And that has happened throughout history. We never learn. All great empires, they fall because of internal strife and the fact that there's this class, and there are these people down here. And there are more of these people down here than there are up there. So eventually they decide, “We're going topple this group.” And they can do it by sheer numbers.

	B:	And so now that we're opening up to Cuba, is it shocking to you? Are you like, “Oh God, this is a sixty year, fifty year commitment that we've had to the embargo in Cuba.”

	I:	We've always been close to Cuba, whether we want to realize it or not. [Laughter] If you lived in South Florida in the past forty years, there hasn't really been that much difference. If you don't speak Spanish in South Florida, you're lost. There was a time when people said, “Will the last American please bring the flag when they come?” Because it is so much a part of the Spanish culture. So many people came over from Cuba, that without a knowledge of Spanish, you're lost. I've gone in restaurants in [Miami] where the menu's in Spanish, everybody speaks Spanish. You know, there are a few people who speak English, but without that knowledge of another language—I just can't emphasize the importance of realizing that English, while it may be universally spoken by people who are interested in getting our money, I've never had any trouble encountering anybody who speak enough English to get my money. But if you really want to know what the people think or what they're like, you need to be able to speak their language. And I found that true in Cuba, because I could buy things much cheaper than the people I was travelling with. And they finally woke up and said,





“Mae, why don't you ask them how much it is?” [Laughter] “You buy it!” Because, you know, it's just that difference in, even though your language skills may be poor, people appreciate the fact that you're trying to learn their language and their culture. That's why Jackie O was so popular; because she could say things. Just to be able to greet them or say hello. Oh my gosh, they go crazy! [Laughter] And then they want to help you learn the language! So I really feel that anybody who wants to learn a language needs to go to a foreign country, because those people, they're just so excited that you want to learn their language. And it's a completely different world. I went to visit a coworker who—when I retired—lived in Spain. She was with DoD. And I think I stayed over there two or three months. It was wonderful, because I could just walk around and talk to people. You find out so much more when you can talk to them in their language. And it doesn't have to be fluent or proficient. They'll make sure you understand, and that's the important thing.

	B:	See we're both anthropologists, so we—. [Laughter] So, we agree wholeheartedly. Okay, so, but where did we leave off in your education career? You were in DeLand, and then we heard one story from Miami. How did you get from DeLand to Miami?

	I:	Ah. Okay. All right. My first job was in DeLand, and I worked there for four years. And then my stepmother said, “You know, I'm not doing that well.” And she had this large boardinghouse and everything, and she wanted me to come home.

And so I decided that I wanted to go to Tampa. Well, I didn't have any problems getting a job—I guess I've never had any problem getting a job. So she came up





with me to ask my principal to let me leave. And he said no, he would have too hard a time getting a replacement. Although we didn't get along. So we had to go down to the superintendent's office, and the superintendent had to remind my principal that even though they had a contract to give me a job, I could certainly resign my job and leave. I don't think he thought that worked both ways. So, I went to Tampa and I worked there for two years.

	B:	In education?



	I:	Oh yeah. I worked—I'm a high school teacher, okay? So I worked at Blake High School for two years. I taught English and journalism.

	B:	Okay. And was that an all-Black high school?



	I:	Yes! Oh, but what a high school! It was comprehensive. And when I say “comprehensive,” I do mean comprehensive. They did everything at that school. They had their own printing departments—they printed all of their tickets, programs, anything else. They had an auto mechanic department. They had tailoring. They had radio and electronics. They had cosmetology. They had food prep. Now, this is back in early 1960s. Blake grew out of Don Thompson. Don Thompson was a vocational school for veterans that came back from the war and wanted to finish their education.

	B:	From World War I? I:	From World War II.

	B:	I mean, sorry, World War II.



	I:	I know [inaudible 1:22:06]. [Laughter] World War II, yeah. And so they taught practical things, the academic as well as the vocational. Well, eventually, they





closed that school, and then they made Blake High School. Beautiful school, right on the Hillsborough River. And the principal, U. R. Thomas, was—he was a mastermind. He was a financial genius and he was a perfectionist. And so, he had a school that was absolutely run like an Army unit. It was clean. My dad worked there for a short time as a custodian, and he told me that at night, the principal would have a white glove. And he would walk down the hallway with that white glove, hand over the lockers, to make sure that they had dusted— that's how clean the school was. Beautifully landscaped. They had agriculture, too, by the way. Our band had the sharpest uniforms that there were. The school had their own bus. I don't think there was anything—they had their programs.

Everything that they did was first-class. And I remember the sponsor of the yearbook could not take the kids to Tallahassee to a workshop. And, you know, we travelled everywhere. And the principal said, “Well, Mae, you have to take them. Ms. Vesta, you have to take them.” I wasn't married then. And I said, “But I can't. I need to get my hair done, my clothes cleaned, and I was going to take my car in the shop, and I don't have any money. I can't do this!” And he said, “Oh, that's no problem.” This is like, they're leaving at twelve o'clock that night, and this is like nine o'clock that morning. And you want me to take a group of kids to Tallahassee to a workshop? You've got to be kidding. No! [Laughter] He said, “Okay. You go home and get your clothes and bring them back, and you take them down to dry clean. Ms. Williams will do your hair. Just leave your car here when you get ready to go, and auto mechanics will work on it. As far as the money, we'll give you enough for the chaser, but you won't have enough to buy





the liquor.” [Laughter] And I thought, “Okay.” And he said, “Quality Foods will be doing bag lunches for you guys to take on the bus.” And we were going in our bus. And I thought, “Well, I guess I'm going.” And so, I went. I mean, you never had a problem with how you were going to do things. Now, one caveat was that at the beginning of the year, every teacher had to sell a carton of candy. But that candy money—and I'm sure the dentists were happy in Tampa—went into the school treasury. And so when our teams, or band, or groups had to travel, there was always money for them and the chaperones to travel, first-class. In fact, someone called us “First Federal of West Tampa.” [Laughter] I mean, he probably could have let the school board borrow some money! That's just how much of a manager he was. Interesting, interesting situation.

	B:	And I'm sure that was a point of pride for the Black community in Tampa, to say “Look at our school.”

	I:	Mmhm! Mmhm. Now, I graduated from Middleton, which then became our rival high school. And I went back to visit on one occasion—beautiful school.

Absolutely beautiful. It probably would have been just made into a junior high school and that would have been the end of it. But there were so many graduates of that school, alumni, who insisted that that school live in perpetuity. So, they had to name the new high school on the east side of town, primarily on the outskirts of the Black community, Middleton.

	B:	Okay. Oh wait, that was the new high school that they built—the new integrated high school?

	I:	Mmhm, mmhm.





	B:	Oh, okay. That's interesting. Because we have pretty close connections with the Lincoln Alumni Association, and they're working really hard to get Lincoln re- recognized as a high school. And they keep saying that “It happened in Tampa, it happened in Tampa.” I think they keep saying “Tampa.”

	I:	Hm.



	B:	So that might be your school that they keep referencing. I:	Now what Lincoln are you referring to?

	B:	The one in Gainesville. We've done probably fifteen interviews with people from Lincoln.

	I:	I used to teach at that school. B:	Yeah, yeah. So—.

	I:	[Laughter]



	B:	And we were actually—we have a little, in the A. Quinn Jones exhibit that's in the Thomas Center, which I think you've seen, there's a little oral history thing right in the corner where the telephone desk is. Do you remember in the back right corner of the exhibit? That's our exhibit. So we were kind of part of setting that up. We were kind of, like, a very small part of setting that up. But we spoke at the event that they had on February 17th.

	I:	Very good. Okay.



	B:	So, we hear amazing stories about Lincoln. And it's funny to hear that you have a connection with Lincoln and then you went to Blake, and saw the same kind of things going on. Because that's the same story that A. Quinn Jones has—

	I:	Actually it was the reverse. I went to Blake first.





	B:	Ah, okay.



	I:	Let me see if I can chronologically set myself right. B:	Well, you did your internship at Lincoln, and then?

	I:	I did my internship at Lincoln. My first job was at Euclid in DeLand. Worked there four years. I went to Blake for two years. I went to Northwestern in Miami, which was another comprehensive high school, for one year. Then I married and moved to California. Now, let me tell you a little bit about Northwestern: if Blake was a comprehensive high school, Northwestern was the granddaddy of comprehensive high schools. Because they had three sessions: one in the morning: 7:15, 8:15, and 9:15—and I was lucky enough to get 9:15. [Laughter] And so they had three sessions that they rotated throughout the day. There was like, maybe a thirty minute break. And then, they had night school there for all the adults. And like Blake, they had every vocation that you could think of. And it was interesting, because they served breakfast, lunch, and dinner. And after school, they had conch fritters. The best conch fritters that you ever wanted to taste! Oh, god! So, you know where I was every afternoon when I got off at 5:45. I had 9:15 to 5-something, and I would go down to that cafeteria and get those conch fritters. Mmm, mm-mm-mm-mm! Okay. So then, of course, I married and moved to California. I married that Christmas. My husband did let me come back and finish out the year. Oh, he wasn't happy about that. The song was popular, “I Left My Heart in San Francisco.” And I got on the plane and we were both kind of crying. It was silly. Oh, we were really hokey. But anyway, and then of course when I went back to California that year, at the end of that year, I had to come





back because my car was all loaded and I had an accident. And so, I had to come back and see about my car and everything. But that's another story, how I got back here. But I got back to Florida because of some things that happened in California. And I will remember that my mother told me, “Coming to see me is not like living with me. Two, never let your right hand know what your left hand is doing. And every woman needs to keep some money on the side that her husband doesn't know anything at all about.” And I'm not going to talk any more about that. [Laughter] Suffice it to say, all of those things are true. Along with the fact that when a woman is educated and has been self-sufficient, she is not about to be controlled. Regardless of the circumstances. I remember the reason then that my grandfather and father insisted, “You are going to get an education, you're going to be able to take care of yourself, because you never know what you're going to encounter. And you need to be able to take care of yourself and possibly your children.” Enough said. Those words are worth repeating and remembering. And when I look at women who have to put up with situations simply because they can’t afford to leave, because they don't have survivor skills—I would say everybody needs to have survivor skills. Because you can walk out with your head held high. I remember once—and I'll say this, one personal bit I'll share—my husband saying, “How will you survive?” [Laughter] And I looked at him as if to say, “Well, you'll just have to find out, won't you?” And I can remember years later, when we were talking, and he had come down to visit, and he said, “You know, I think I was jealous of your being able to take care of yourself. That you really didn't need anybody.” And I think, like in any





marriage, there are faults on both sides. We did eventually come to a point where we could sit down and talk about each other. In fact, we even talked about getting married again. And I said, “Ah, not just yet.” [Laughter] But it's kind of interesting that women need to see themselves as whole beings, and not a part of a union. I think it makes for better unions when you are your own person, and he respects you for being your own person, and you can respect him. And if he's comfortable enough in his male role that he doesn't feel threatened by a strong woman. And there are very—Black women have had to be strong. Think about it. We have had to hold our families together. So, we don't take things that normally that other people do. We're used to being in charge. And if a man is weak and he can't handle that, then hey: tough! Okay? But then again, I heard something today that said, “Women are better than men at handling money, at being—.” Did you hear that story?

	M:	No. I mean, I've heard things to that effect before.



	I:	Well, I'm trying to think. The author of the book—you know, everybody is talking about “man up.” This is written by a man who is a legal analyst. And his title is Man Down. Because he went back and researched all of these things that said that generally women are better at handling money; we don't take risk. We're better at being CEOs. And we're really better at a lot of things. That's not to say that men are not important. And I do love men dearly, don't you ever think for a minute that I don't. [Laughter] And I think they're essential. I love 'em to death— after all, I had a son. But there are just certain things that we are probably more accustomed to looking at the long-term results rather than the short-term gains,





as men tend to do. Men are risk-takers; women generally are not. And we love you for that. But at the same time, a good union will combine the best of the two sexes. I sound like Dr. Ruth, don't I? [Laughter]

	M:	It all makes sense though.



	I:	Yeah. I think you give and you bolster each other's strengths and weaknesses. Men don't like to ask for directions. I think this GPSs—and they probably don't even want to use that. I can't tell you how many times I've been in a car and I wanted to say, “Turn here.” Eventually I learned, let him make his own mistakes. “Go ahead and turn, you going the wrong way.” “And you passed this way three times; now, when are you going to stop and ask directions? Don't you know you're lost?” [Laughter] But that's another story.

	B:	So you came back to Florida, moved back to Tampa.



	I:	I actually came back to Miami to get my car and all those things straight. M:	And this is when?

	I:	This is—let me see now—this would have been 1962 or [196]3. So I came back and got everything straight, got my car, all that sort of stuff. And I went to Tampa and stayed a while. And then, while I was in Tampa trying to decide what I was going to do with my life, my stepmother died. The aunt from Newberry came down and said, “Why don't you come back with us?” By the way, did I mention they were childless and I was their favorite? And so, I was at a point where I thought, you know, I've been through an awful lot now. And I kind of need some place that's serene, without problems, and so forth. Did I mention I was pregnant?





B:   No.



I:  Oh, yeah. Okay. I am now about six months pregnant—barely showing but very pregnant. And wondering, “Where is my life going at this point?” Oh, and by the way, my grandfather had died between the time I got married and the time I left.

B:   You said he was ninety-four when he died?



	I:	Yeah. He died April Fool's Day. And meanwhile, I have a husband who calls me every night and wants me to be on the next plane. Who calls and talks two or three hours. I mean, I was going through quite a time! That was the year that was. And I needed some time alone. So, that time alone wound up being Newberry. And again, you know, I had a family that was very supportive. And my aunt and uncle, she ran a restaurant, he ran the dry cleaners here. They had no children, so—

	B:	And they were your aunt and uncle from? I:	My mother's side.

	B:	Your birth mother's side, or your stepmom? I:	My birth mother.

	M:	What were their names, just so—



	I:	Eddie and Threetha Thompson. She also played the piano for Mount Zura, the church here. Her father was the moderator, which meant he had a church in Gainesville, a church in Newberry, and a church in Alachua. And when I would come up during the summers—and this was when I got my Protestant background—we were in church all day long. We started with Sunday school; and after Sunday school, it was church; and after church, you ate. And we went





back in the afternoon for missionary, or you went back for BYPU. And then there was night service. So it was an all-day affair.

	B:	What is BYPU?



	I:	Baptist Young People’s Union. So, I got quite a religious background. And not to mention that I used to have to go to church with my grandfather, who was Methodist. And he was like a steward of his church, which is, like, whatever that is. And so I remember having to participate in programs there, that sort of thing. Someone said the other day: “You have to give a reading.” And I got up and gave one. They said, “You remember that from being a little kid?” I said, “You had to remember those things. You had to stand up and say things!” But anyway, I digress.

B:  And so you came to Newberry during the [19]60s, when segregation was a hot topic. And integration. What was going in Newberry at that time? Or was there anything going on?

	I:	Yeah. [Laughter] We were very segregated. There was a Black elementary school at that—well, not in the [19]60s. I think it might’ve been open, I'm not sure. I'll have to let Freddie [Warmack], the former mayor, tell you about that place. But I know that the first school that was built here, which is where the daycare center is—and by the way, I can give you the history of that—there was not a Black school in Newberry. And a group of people decided that they would give fundraisers—mainly selling dinners; fish, that sort of thing. They raised money and they bought this piece of land out on Newberry Lane, what's now Newberry Lane. And they cleared it, painstakingly removing the palmettos and so forth with





very rudimentary utensils or implements. And once they purchased the land, they donated it to the school board so the WPA could come in and build a school. At that time, WPA built schools, municipal buildings—the one that we have here— and libraries throughout the southeast. Or throughout the country I guess, but mainly in the southeast. And so, they were able to get a school built out there.

And the people who taught at the school, some of them lived with my aunt and uncle. And it was interesting. The first school prior to this one being, was a one room school that was on a lot, half of which had been given by my aunt and uncle, and the other half by another family. And they had a school and, of course it was so small when it rained the water would run onto their property. But that was the first Black school in Newberry.

	B:	Do you remember the name of it?



	I:	I don't know that it had a name. It was just a school. It didn't have numbers during that time. There were little schools all over the county, by the way. There was one school out just north of town. There was a little school there, and I think that building may be standing. The school that's out at Morningside Park came from—. There were a number of small community schools at that time. Every school was responsible for erecting their own school so their kids could be educated. The school boards paid the teachers. And the teachers, of course, may have made fifty dollars a month. I think you would have to talk to some of those who taught during that time. So it didn't leave them an awful lot of money for their own benefit. Plus, they lived in the community. So, there weren't that many cars and so forth. So they had to live there. There wasn't public





transportation like we're accustomed to. You know, Greyhound bus may come through here, but that was pretty much it. So, you had the school that was there. And I can recall when I was back here teaching, the superintendent said, “We're closing the elementary school, and we would like to give the school and the property back to the community.” And he said, “We need to find somebody that we can turn the property back over.” Because they had raised the money and supplied the school. And I talked to several people at that time, and I remember talking to my neighbor across the street, Deacon West—and he was one of those ones—and he said, “No, too much trouble. Liability. Something happens out there, I'd be responsible.” And I talked to several other people; many of the people who had worked to acquire that property were gone. Their children, offspring, didn't want any part of it. And so, sadly enough, I had to go back to them and say, “I don't think anybody wants the property.” But what I was suggested to do is to donate the property to the city and let them develop a park out of it. And for some reason or another, that's exactly what they did. So East Park, which is right across from where I live, was donated to the city. And the cafeteria, which was the only block building that had the kitchen, became a daycare center. And the rest of it was sort of like a community center. I can recall when I first came here that there would be groups who would go out, like a band would practice or that sort of thing. But it's a beautiful structure with beautiful hardwood floors, but it was largely deserted and unused. Minimally used, I'll say that. And so finally, I think, the city decided that they would just put it up for auction. And I remember this family that had successfully bid for the property: the





idea was, because it was then a fire hazard, to just dismantle it. And they could have the materials. And you can imagine, heart of pine floors, those were some—this was a man who recognized the value of it. And I can't remember, you'll have to find out what he bid for it. But he was able to get it. And I remember his wife and son helping him take that building apart. By the way, he happened to have been a carpenter. And I had just built my home, so I'm sure it had to be after 1978. And they came over and asked if they could have some water, and we talked and became friends and everything. And they tore that building completely down. Took the lumber. They had bought a house right a block from city hall; it's a long, grey building. And he took the lumber from that school and built that house. Beautiful structure. And like I said, the daycare was there, the park was there. And the city had been very generous in maintaining that. Now, from time to time I would have to remind the city to finally put it in writing. “That park and that property belongs to the community, and don't you ever forget it.”

	B:	That's a good story. Wow.



	I:	Because a lot of people don't know that. And I think there were some times that I said, “Well, you know, maybe—.” But I think now everybody knows it. And I put it in writing, and I think I presented it to the commission so they could not say they did not know. I wanted that to be documented: that property should forever be there for community use. Now, when the agency that sponsored the daycare decided they were going to close the daycare, that daycare had been in operation for over twenty-something years. And it was an integral part of the community. So, I remember Elaine Franklin—I had just retired, thinking, “Okay.





I'm home free now”—saying, “We need to get together and save the daycare.” And I thought, “Oh my god! What have you talked me into?” And so, they went to Channel 20 and, you know, went and got all the publicity, had this meeting, and so forth. Little did I know that I would wind up—you know, you were right across the street, you were an educator, you were retired; you have time. I have learned to tell people who are retired, “Just say no.” [Laughter] So, anyway, I wound up working with the board to maintain the school. And we got four Cs, I think it was A-4 Cs at that time, to come out and meet with them. And they agreed they would give us X amount of days, I think it was ninety days, to become self- sufficient. They would continue to pay the salary, but after ninety days they were out of there. So we had to figure a way to—and they said the population was too small to support it. So we had to do an awful lot of things. It was interesting. First of all, we had to incorporate. We had to go through all the paperwork of articles of incorporation. We had to—and the city worked really well with us. I think I was on the city commission at that time. So that might have had something to do with it. And we were able to get to the point where, when they decided they were going to step aside, we were able to maintain it. And the enrollment grew. I can remember some of the board members, one board member in particular, having to advance us the money so that we could pay the salaries. That's how dicey it was. But our whole dream was to make it self-sufficient, and it is.

	B:	To this day?



	I:	To this day. And the interesting part was—[Laughter]—it started out as an all- Black daycare. And then I think one of the daycares closed. And we wound up, at





one point, having—we were a minority in the daycare. [Laughter] There were more White kids and Spanish-speaking kids in there than there were Black kids! I think it's kind of reverted now. I'm not sure what has happened. But it has really been a saving factor for parents who—and we only accept parents who are working or who are going to school. Because those are the ones who receive— you know, unless you can pay for your child to come, and then you pay full fare. But I can't imagine what a number—we have parents who bring their kids from Trenton, Archer. So we feel like we are serving a very definite need. And, of course, most of the people like to come out because, unlike most daycares, they have whole food. Their food isn't prepared from scratch. And so it makes for a very good situation. The kids are very happy and we've had city people who come out and they—the city's kind of adopted them. Now, they were just—oh, they were so thrilled by those kids! And we had a couple of commissioners who were contractors, and so they had built the church, the Baptist church there in Jonesville. Came out and painted the building. So, they've had a lot of community support. It is really “Newberry Community Daycare Center.” And it serves all kids. And the kids as comfortable. They don't have to think about what color they are! [Laughter]

	B:	It's so interesting to hear that a Black institution was adopted by the entire community. Because you know the whole history with the schools, a lot of them were changed into elementary schools or vocational schools, eventually torn down. It's interesting to hear that there was one that lasted, and it's still around today. And it is truly a community institution.





	I:	It is.



	M:	How far back did it go? Like, how long was that daycare in operation, do you know?

	I:	I'll have to refer you to somebody. The girl that's the director now has worked there—I think that was her first job. But I'll connect you with some people who can give you a little bit of background on that. The first director was Gail Watson. And she's a part of the King family. And I do want you to interview her mother, Levonia King. Because she's probably, along with Claronelle Stevens, two of the oldest living Blacks in this community. And they can give you some background, the likes of which I'm sure—because we're going fast. [Laughter] Which is good that you're doing this, you know? Because a lot of this will be lost.

	B:	And when you said the kids these days, they'd rather watch TV and stuff.



Because you know eventually they are going to want to know. And these tapes are going to be here for them. And we'll give you a copy so that you can pass it on to your family, too, when they get interested. Just to make sure that these stories get preserved, because they're so fascinating. Like the Cuban Missile Crisis story, that you were in Cuba right before it! That's just crazy. And so many other ones, too.

	I:	You never know when you're going to be a part of history. B:	Yeah. It's so weird. It just happens around you.

	M:	You're in a book now. Or your family's in a book.





	I:	Oh, yeah. I'll have to show you that book. It's interesting! Because, surprisingly enough, it was a group of White individuals—historians—who decided they were going to do this.

	B:	Yeah, that's very interesting.



	I:	It is always interesting. We don't document our history. It's always the White population is interested in us, and, like I say, I have this book, which I guess maybe they had Ancestry.com back then, or some search engines, that they were able to go back and find out things about my family. But then, of course, it's all there in the records. All you have to do is go back and look.

	B:	That's true. You just have to take the time.



	I:	There are a few inaccuracies in there, I might point out. Because if you are looking strictly at records, you might—and remember I told you all these Warrens? You might confuse some of these people, because you're looking at statistics, and you're writing without the benefit of actually knowing these people. But it was interesting: all of the families that they mentioned were families that we grew up with and knew. So, somebody had documented that whole—and I just loved going back and reading that book. You also have a lady in Archer, Liz Jenkins, who has done that for the community. She autographed and gave me a copy of her book that took some of the early families in Gainesville and chronicled what their events and lives were like. Organizations and so forth. So I have a copy of that. So, one day you might want to—

	B:	Oh, yeah! We'll check it out. That’s awesome. So, what happened after Newberry? Did you go teach at Lincoln eventually?





	I:	I was here. Oh, yes! [Laughter] I was here in Newberry. And I actually was trying to decide—my principal in Miami found out I was back in Florida to stay, and he offered me a job back at my old school. And their comment was, “You belong in Newberry about as much as an African gazelle belongs on Biscayne Boulevard.” You know, “What in the world are you doing up there in that little town?” [Laughter] And the girls who lived up the street, who were babysitting for me, said, “Our Spanish teacher's going out on maternity leave, and we're not going to be able to finish Spanish because we don't have anybody to teach us Spanish.” So they must have told their principal that I taught Spanish. I was certified to teach Spanish. Next thing I know, I'm getting a call from personnel asking me if I'm interested in a job in this county. And I said, “Not really.” [Laughter]

	B:	“How much can you pay me?”



	I:	I really wasn't interested in the job. I was trying to find myself. And, of course, it helped that I had put all of my money—and back in those days people paid their own retirement. So I pulled my retirement. I'm thinking, “I'll never teach again.” I had put it in a bank in Tampa. I didn't bother to take it from Tampa to California. [Laughter] And I'm glad I didn't, because when I came back, I had money enough that I could—. And my aunt said, “But, you know, this money isn't going to last forever. You need to go to work.” [Laughter] And I thought, “Oh, well, okay.” So, I went for the interview thinking, you know, “If this doesn't suit me, I'm not going to take it.” But the personnel director, who later became a very close friend and coworker of mine, said, “You don't look like you had a baby.” And I said, “Well, I feel like I had a baby.” How am I supposed to look? I guess I was supposed to





have the baby bump and you know, and that did not work. So, I worked—she talked me into taking the job. And she told me her story. I think that was it. And she had separated from her husband and, you know, we were kind of commiserating with each other and everything. So I took the job. She was so nice. And I worked for a half a year. I went to work about a month after I had my child. And I kept thinking, “I don't need my child.” But, see, that was the other thing: there were so many childless people who were anxious. Not only did they take care of my child, they came to the house and stayed with him. And then, of course, as he got a little older they—. So I had no worries whatsoever. Not to mention my aunt and uncle spoiled that child to death. I had no problems with babysitters. They were about, “Oh, we'll take care of everything. You just go work!” And, plus, their children were involved in this because after all, the lady who really took charge of my son, these were her two daughters that needed the Spanish teacher! You see how they conspired to get together? So, anyway, there I am, and I'm going to work, and I can tell I love the job. The kids were so sweet. I remember one kid coming up to me and saying—I never taught middle school before—“I want to tell you something.” And I leaned down to hear what he had to say, and he threw his little arms around me and he kissed me. I was hooked then. I thought, “Oh my god. I don't care if they pay me or not! This is just the best job in the world!” Well, anyway, this was fine. I enjoyed the kids, enjoyed the teaching experience, but when I'd get home, they didn't want to relinquish the baby! I mean, they were so busy, this child was from lap to lap, and I remember one day kind of looking wistfully at my child and thinking, “Can I hold the baby?”





[Laughter] But, anyway, this went on, and again, it was always a question—when this lady comes back from maternity leave, then I'm going to be out of a job.

Fortunately—oh my god, I am so blessed!—the principal at Lincoln was from Tampa. His mother lived right around the corner. I remember passing her house, and we had to go and visit her. His sister and my sister were good friends, and so we had to go by and spend some time with Mrs. Nealy. That was our appointed duty: children had to visit older people. And so, when he found out that I was in this area, he wanted to know why didn't I come to work for him? And I said, “I really hadn't planned to stay here. I hadn't planned to work for anybody.” But he insisted that I come and work with him. And I thought, “Okay. You know, this’ll work.” So, I went to work at Lincoln. And interesting. It really was.

	B:	What year was this, that you started Lincoln?



	I:	Must’ve been around [19]63, I would think. And I didn't think it was going to be permanent. I'm still searching time to find myself. I still have a husband who's telling me, “Come back to California.” So I'm not sure what I want to do, but I'm enjoying teaching. I had some of the best kids ever. Oh, I mean, the experiences I could tell you about there! I remember when the Black Panther Movement came along, and I said, “You know, I don't look good in black. And some of the things you're proposing sound a little dangerous to me.” And one of the kids that was so instrumental in that movement came back later—he had gotten his PhD from some northeastern university—he's now a college professor. [Laughter] This is a kid who was dyslexic. I said, “Son, you need to walk around with a dictionary, because you're never going to make it if you don't do something about that





spelling!” Brilliant kid and everything. And he came back, and he wanted to let me know that he had made it! [Laughter] But I loved working at Lincoln. It was the kind of school, under Otha Nealy, that had a lot of parent involvement. A lot of parent involvement. Now, he was kind of reluctant to let his teachers go to professional conferences. And I remember once having to say to him that, “I'm going to this conference in Miami.” And he says, “Well, I'm not going to give you permission.” And I said, “Well, I just won't come to work. You can just take sick days.” And so I've always been—a job is a job. You know, I'm not going to grovel to do this. You lucky to have me." But, anyway, I went to the conference. And I went to the conference with a Black teacher who taught Spanish and English, and a White teacher who was one of the first of the integrated faculties at Lincoln. And we drove down together. [Laughter] Interesting. We kept thinking, you know, are we going to get stopped? But by that time, I think, Florida was probably not Mississippi, Alabama. We had no problems travelling. And I think we were at one of the main hotels there. I can't remember—one of the ones in Miami. And we had a lovely time. I thought about that this morning as I was brushing my teeth, because we sat at the table with this guy who must’ve been one of the forerunners of environmental conservation or whatever. And he said, “When you brush your teeth in the morning, do you leave the faucet running?” “Uh-huh, yeah.” He said, “You realize how much water you waste when you leave the faucet running?” He said, “Why don't you cut the faucet off after you put the toothbrush on there, while you're brushing your teeth? And then, when you finish, fill a cup with water, and you'll save water.” Thought about that. And once





that elephant is in the room, you never forget it. And it was a habit: I just left the water running. We take water for granted. But after that, I don't know why, it just stuck with me. I could never do that again. It's such a waste. And if somebody doesn't bring it to your attention, you're going let that faucet run while you're brushing your teeth. Do you do that?

B:  I don't. Well, in elementary school—because environmentalism was really big ever since I can remember. They told us, I remember somebody came to our school and taught us—

I:    Cut the faucet off.



B:  —“Here's an extra thing to remember: turn the faucet off. There's no need to leave it on.”

I:    Do you do that?



	M:	No, I don't. I don't know where I picked it up but somewhere. I mean, I remember, yeah, in school we had instruction on how to use a toothbrush. It might’ve been part of that.

	I:	And this was back in the [19]60s. But until that time people were not that concerned about—water was plentiful. You know, it's always going to be there. And suddenly someone, at an English convention, of all places, did that.

	B:	Said, “Think about it, there's not really any point.” I:	Mmhm, mmhm. Yeah.

	B:	So, that was Lincoln.



	I:	Yeah. That was Lincoln. And—



	B:	When did A. Quinn Jones retire from Lincoln?





	I:	Oh, he had retired by then. By the time, that they had the new Lincoln. B:	Oh, you were teaching at the new Lincoln.

	I:	The new Lincoln. And Otha Nealy was the principal. I interned at the old Lincoln under A. Quinn. But at new Lincoln, Otha Nealy was the principal. My hometown boy. And John Dukes taught math, down the hall. And we were the young group. The rebels and everything. Interesting, very interesting. A lot of school activities. Jesse Heard was the coach. And Jesse had just come back to education. He had been a professional football player. And he was the coach at Lincoln. And when those kids travelled, they travelled on Greyhound. I was yearbook sponsor, by the way, so I have the pictures. [Laughter] They were all dressed in, I think, maroon blazers, and grey flannel pants, and black shined shoes. And they're all lined up in front of this Greyhound bus getting ready to go to a game: “The Big Red.” There was a lot of school pride, a lot of school pride. And a lot of parent involvement, which is so essential. I think the thing that I have remembered throughout my entire career in education is: you can't do it without the parents.

You really cannot. If you think you're going to run a school and educate these kids without parent involvement, forget it. Not going to happen. But that was an interesting time. And then, I can't remember—I remember having some of the first interns, White interns, from University of Florida. I remember being offered a job in Fairfax, Virginia. And then I also remember Dr. Gladys Alexander saying, “You know, FSU is offering fellowships. Why don't you apply?” “Nah, [speaks under breath].” “You oughta do that.” “Nah.” And I think she literally made me sit down and pretty much fill out that application. And I remember taking it to the





superintendent. And he was saying, “Are you gonna come back to work here?” And I said, “Sure! Of course I am.” [Laughter] And so I was given the leave, and I spent a year and a summer at FSU getting my master’s. And during that time, they dissolved Lincoln. I remember L.B. Gravely, Hooper Gravely's brother, calling me in Tallahassee and asking me, “What happened to the camera that the yearbook had?” I said, “You have got to be kidding. You're calling me in Tallahassee asking me what happened to the camera?” I said, “Now, may I remind you: at the end of the year, I turned that camera in to the library. Now, when you changed your library—now, Heaven knows what could have happened. But I do want to remind you that that camera was not paid for with school board money.” It was a kid who said he wanted a Nikon in order to do the pictures justice. I didn't know a Nikon from a Brownie camera. But we raised money and bought this Nikon so we could have these pictures. And I remember in that yearbook that year, we had a picture, full-length picture, of James Brown. Because he had been performing in town, and one of the kids went to his concert and asked him if he would give a contribution to the yearbook. My kids were very—had a whole lot of initiative. So he gave them a hundred-dollar contribution to the yearbook, and he gave them an autographed picture that said, “Stay in school.” And that was one of the featured things that we had. And my kids were—they were just the best. They wanted to do a newspaper, and so I said, “Okay, I don't know how it's done here in Gainesville.” So I went over to Gainesville High, and I talked with the newspaper advisor over there. And she told me who they used as a printer. I never will forget her. And so we worked





up—I guess after about a day or so of the routine and everything—and she told me about the dummy markup, and how they wanted everything camera-ready. So I came back and I told my kids about that. And we did the first newspaper that they had at Lincoln. Also did, I think, the first newspaper that they had here in Newberry. But it was interesting, because the things that they wrote about were things that were really meaningful. And I can remember the guy at the printer saying, “I love your stories that your kids are writing!” I thought, “Yeah, they’re pretty interesting kids.” I mean, the things that they would tell you were good things. But there were also things that they told you that you had to keep confidential. The things that they were going through. I remember once I wanted to do a story, Hiroshima. One kid told me that she couldn't do that novel. And I said, “Why?” She said, “I just can't read that.” And I said, “Okay.” And we came up with an alternative novel for her to read. And I kind of wanted to know, why couldn't she read Hiroshima? And it was because of the bomb, and it describes graphically the skin peeling off the people and everything. And sometime later— not right at that point—she did tell me later that her baby sister had died in a fire. And it brought back memories. And so I've always, from that point, felt you've got to be flexible. All kids cannot be treated the same. For whatever—. Kids teach you much more than we teach them. [Laughter] I can really attest to that. The best days that I had at Eastside were days when kids would come up to me and say, “You know what we ought to do?” And I'd say, “What?” And they'd tell me.

And I'd say, “You know, that's not a bad idea.” And I'd get on the intercom, and say, “Now, a student came to me and said this was something that we ought to





do, and I think it's a good idea. And unless you have some problems with this, this is what we're going to do.” And they'd feel so proud. Because I wouldn't embarrass them by calling their name. But they knew that they were a part of anything. We used to have a meeting with every grade. Leave the teachers out of it; it was just the administration, the deans, and so forth with the kids. And we would have this heart-to-heart talk. “Now, is the way we’re going to operate. And if you have a problem with a teacher, you cannot try to solve that problem with the teacher. You're not on that some level. You need to bring that problem to us and let us handle it. Okay? Now if there's anything you want to talk about, you can come to us. Whether it's out in the open, behind closed doors: we'll talk to you. And there's nothing that we can't—because we have to do this thing together.” And it always worked. If a kid brought a gun on that campus, within two or three minutes, we would know it. I remember very vividly going down—no, I didn't go down, actually, let me back up there. This kid asked to be excused, came in the office, and told the dean that this kid had a gun in his backpack.

Wasn't a backpack—it was on his back, but anyway, his little bag. And we didn't want to compromise that kid. So we waited until the kid went to the next period and then the dean went down and asked the kid to come. And said, “By the way, bring your things and everything.” So he came in the office, and when he was in the dean's office—and I was in there—they asked him to open his bag. And he took out what looked like a Wild West gun. It was a long gun, in a holster, that had the belt with the bullets to it, and had the thing that tied around it. “What in the world are you doing with this thing?” It belonged to his granddaddy. And he





had snuck it out of the house—[Laughter]—and brought it to school. I don't know whether he was going to do show and tell, or whether he was going to do Wild, Wild West. We didn’t know. So we called the parents, and the parents came, and we explained the situation to them. And, you know, it wasn't so much about the punishment. It was getting the message across that “This is not the thing to do.” So we could waive the punishment if we could get the guarantee from the parent that this is not going to happen again. And the kid knew, we knew, and whatever. And so, it worked. I thank God for parents every day. And I think so many things happen because we don't get the parents actually involved. The best idea I ever had at Buchholz was to put in the speakerphone. And if the kid came in and did something I'd say, “Okay, call your parent, tell them what happened.” That's the hardest thing to do. I did it for two reasons. First of all, parents don't have time to get off their jobs and come out and talk to you. I'm a parent, I know that. But when that kid has to say to their parent, “I did such and such a thing,” you should hear the parents. And, see, the kids know they can’t tell—now, the one thing: don't lie. So they got to tell what happened, and I get to listen to them telling their parent. And I get to hear the parents respond. And most of the time: “I'll see you when we get home.” Now, if I had that guarantee from that parent that they were going take care of it, I knew that it was going to be taken care of. Because I have seen these parents in action! [Laughter] I remember one kid—well, no, no, don't get me started on that. I'll be here all night long. [Laughter]

	B:	Well, so you sort of seamlessly transitioned from Lincoln, to Eastside, to Buchholz. What was the progression?





	I:	Okay. I got the fellowship to FSU. I came back. Well, I didn't come back. I was going to stay and work on my doctorate. But I went to a conference in Des Moines, Iowa. And I ran into some people from Florida who asked me what was I doing at FSU? [Laughter] And so they said, “Why don't you come home and work on a degree at Florida?” And I said, “Well, I already have a program. I want to work on my PhD in English.” [Laughter] And they said, “Nah, you need to come back to Gainesville.” And I got an assistantship that was pretty lucrative. And I said, “What do I have to do for this? Who do I have to kill?” [Laughter] And they said, “No, you're gonna be supervising interns.”

	B:	This was at UF?



	I:	At UF. While you're working on your doctorate. So I came back to Gainesville so I could work on, supposedly, my doctorate. I got just a little too much of the ivory tower. And I said—I remember going to Dr. Todd, my advisor, and saying, “I can't take this. I got college professors who are trying to teach me what I know they don't know a thing about. And you expect me to sit here and listen to this? This doesn't make sense! So-and-so doesn't have the slightest idea of what it's like to be in the classroom, and he's trying to teach me. And I hear these little college kids who are sitting there, buttering him up.” And I said, “This is the worst travesty I ever heard. I don't want any part of this. I'm out.” And he said, “Mae, you can't do that.” I said, “Yes, I can. I can walk.” And I remember thinking—I think we worked out a compromise. I would take my orals, settle for a specialist, and I could always come back and do the dissertation. And first of all, I said, "I don’t even have any idea of what I want to write a dissertation about. What's





even worth writing one about?” So I said, “Okay, we'll cut it off at this point.” And that's what we did. The good part about that was, I think it opened their eyes to the fact that if you've been at the college level for so long, you don't have a clue as to what's going on. So you cannot teach an intern how to cope. And so, we made some changes there. But anyway, I came back to the system hoping I would get in a classroom, and found out that I was going to be in supervision. So, I came back as the Supervisor of English for Alachua County. And that was interesting. And I loved it. It worked out fine. And then, of course, they decided after a year or two to do with subject area supervisors. And they kept a few, and then I was kept on for a year as the secondary person along with another guy.

And so, we did that. And then, finally, Longstreth came in, and he sent all of us supervisors to high schools as assistant principals for curriculum. They had never had that before. And I wound up at Newberry, which was good. And everything was going well. I had gone to Tampa to see an attorney—well, actually, the probate judge—about some family property. And I’d gone to a concert the night before. When I came back, my son said, “Oh, mom, they had a riot in Newberry!” I said, “A what?! You got to be kidding!” “Oh, they had a riot up there. They had to close school.” I said, “You got to be kidding.” And so, sure enough, they had had a riot at Newberry High School.

	B:	About what?



	I:	Well, that's a good question. So, anyway, I came back and I was expecting to see the school in shambles. It wasn't. There was no glass in the trophy case, and that's an interesting story. I understand it was orchestrated chaos. It was some





little kid that had a whistle, and when he blew the whistle the chairs would fly. I kid you not! You'd have to talk to someone who was there at the time. In fact, my best friend now, Elaine, was a student there at the time. And she said, “One of the secretaries”—since she was in the office, they had told her, “You come on in here and get out of this, because it's going to be madness out there!” I'm telling you, I don't know what in the world sparked that.

	B:	What year was it, do you remember? I:	I don't remember the year.

	B:	The decade? Was it late [19]70s?



	I:	I don't know. But I can tell you one thing: I think it had a lot to do with some racial tension that had developed. Because they brought in these people from Miami who was like a, I guess, a “deseg team” or whatever. And they worked with them for a while. They talked to me, but I didn't think I was a problem. And at the end of that year, they transferred me to personnel. And I remember the assistant superintendent saying, “Mae, we need to get you out of there.” And I said, “Okay, that's fine.” I thought I had enjoyed it. I’m still—you'd have to talk to Tommy Tomlinson to find out what the deal was with that. But I do remember going and working in personnel and that was an interesting thing. I worked in personnel and then, the next thing I knew I was working in curriculum again. And I was the assistant to the assistant superintendent for curriculum. I was doing about seven or eight tasks, including budget, and records, and working with the other supervisors. It was kind of a few that we had. We had Reading, and we had Title I, that kind of thing. And then, one day I'm out to lunch, and I come back and they





said, “They want to see you down at the main office.” And I said, “Oh boy, what is this now?” So when I get down there, there are these people sitting down around the table. And they looked at me, and they said, “Mae, could you be a principal?” I looked at them and I said, “I can be anything I want to be. Why?” “Well, we want you to take over the principalship.” “Of what?" "Eastside High School.” “They already have a principal.” “Yeah, but I'm spending more time dealing with the problems of Eastside than I am with the problems of the district. We're going to have to move John [Dukes Jr.]." I said, “Over my dead body. I'm not going to be a part of that. I've known John all my life. John used to give me a ride back and forth from FAM to Gainesville. I'm not going to see him moved from that position.” “Well, we need an assistant superintendent, so we thought we'd move him into that position—no, “We're going to move him into your position, and change—.”

I said, “That will never work. You going take a principal and make him an assistant supervisor of—? No, no, no, no, no. No, no. That won't work.” “Well, we can make him assistant superintendent.” I said, “That would work.” We negotiated that. And they said, “Well, we need for you to start.” I said, “I don't ever make decisions without thinking about them. I'll let you know tomorrow. But I know one thing—I'm not going out there now. And I will only go out there if John is in favor of this, and he makes sure that those kids understand that this is a peaceful transfer. Because I'm not going out there and doing, you know, trying to put oil on the troubled waters.” I said, “So you're going to have to make sure that with you giving him this position, he has make sure the transition is seamless.

And I'm not going to go until after Christmas.” I can't believe the audacity of that.





But I said, “It's too hot a topic. You have to give them a chance to kind of cool down and make that transition. Once they get out for the Christmas holidays and come back, it will be a whole new day.” Which meant then I had to work. But we worked, anyway, 24/7, twelve months. And so, during that time, they made the announcement—I think it was a Thursday before the Christmas holiday. There was a little unrest, but John handled it very well. “Who is this woman coming out here? And why is she coming and why are you leaving?” So, I knew I was going into a difficult situation. And they wanted to get rid of one assistant principal, and I said, “I got to be able to choose the people I work with.” And so the one that they had sent over to Bishop who was having a problem, they said—I talked to the one who was there that had been a supervisor along with me. And I knew Jack. I had worked with Bob because he was a teacher at Newberry. And Jack said, “I think Bob is the one that you want.” And I said, “Okay.” Because the other principal, Harry Conner, was still there. And he said, “We need Bob.” And so I said, “Okay, well then we'll recommend that they send Harry to Bishop.” Who later became principal of Newberry. But anyway, things were very much in a state of flux. So, we kind of got together and formed our team. And I said, “Look guys, we have to do this together.” And so, we did. Kids came back. They looked. And I've always been the kind of person who would like to be comfortable. And I wore pants. And during that time, women weren't wearing pants quite that much. Not like Mrs. Clinton. [Laughter] So, the kids kind of looked: “She's wearing pants.” I want to be comfortable. But I can remember going out one day, and as I drove in that driveway, I thought, “My God, you're in





charge of this school, and you don't even know how to turn on the lights!” That's a scary feeling. You suddenly feel like all the weight of the world is on you. And I thought, “I don't know if I can do this or not.” But somehow, you know, you got this feeling: “Yeah, I can do this. It's just going to be scary.” But it went, really, very smooth. I remember the first time there was a big fight in the girls’ restroom. And I was standing outside. And I went in. These two big girls were going at it.

And I remember telling them, “All the rest of you just clear out, please. I mean, all of the other people who weren't involved, clear out.” And these two girls fought until they were just so tired they wanted somebody to stop them. I wasn't about to stop them. But then, you can't fight if somebody's not cheering you on. And eventually you decide: “You know what? This isn't even worth it.” So they stopped fighting, and you know, they kind of stood there, and they said, “Well, where do we go now?? And I said, “My office.” And I let them walk in there and they—they fought their little hearts out. They were tired then. They were hoping I would stop them. I wasn't about to stop them! Let them beat each other up! [Laughter] And then, when you come to your senses, then we'll talk. And, you know, it worked out. I had tried that with two boys in Tampa. But I had a class of all boys after lunch. Worst kids in the world. And they started fighting. And I told everybody else, “Don't you make a sound.” And I let them fight until they got tired. And then, they got up and they stood there. They'll sit there expecting, waiting: “what do we do next?” And I said, “You're going to [inaudible 2:27:50].” And they say you need to break up a fight: worst thing in the world. Unh-uh. Just





get the spectators away. They don't really want to fight in the first place, when you think about it.

	B:	If you break them up, it's not finished. So it's going to start back again eventually. I:	Interesting premise, isn’t it? [Laughter] Huh. Okay.

	B:	Well, do we want to stop, or do you want to—



	M:	Well, there are plenty of further questions to ask; we don't want to take up your whole—

	I:	I'm through! I mean, okay, so I went to Eastside, and then from Eastside, I went to Buchholz and then I retired.

	B:	Okay.



	I:	End of story.



	M:	Fair enough.



	B:	Well, I do have one question: where's your son today? What's he up to? I:	He's dead.

	B:	Oh no! What happened? I:	Suicide.

	B:	Oh!



	I:	Um-hm.



	B:	Was that here in Newberry, or did he—?



	I:	Here in Newberry. He lived right next door to me. And it's public knowledge. He worked for the state attorney's office. And he was at the FBI Academy, and he was scheduled to finish in about a week. He had done extremely well. And somehow, there was a problem with some money that was a victims' fund. And





he used it—from what I understand, when the FDLE people came and talked to me later—he had used some of that money to pay off informants. And I guess, when you think about it, informants don't give you receipts. So, the money came up, like I said, short. And they called him on the carpet about it. And I think they took away his car. And I guess when my granddaughter came home and couldn't get in the house, she came over to the house and stayed with me. And then when her mother came, when she got in the house—because he had locked the garage door, so that you couldn't use the garage door opener. And you had to get a key to get in. And I think he had borrowed my key or something, so I couldn't let her in the house. And then, I guess, when they discovered—I think his wife discovered him, and she wouldn't let my granddaughter in. And she came running over to the house, and, “Grandmommy, something happened to Daddy, and Mommy won't let me see.” And I had just had transplant surgery about four weeks before. A liver transplant. And I remember jumping up, getting in the car, driving over there. And that's when I just went in the garage and I saw him. And I don't know why, I just couldn't believe it. I was numb. Probably from the painkillers. Probably from the philosophy, “God grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, courage to change the things I can, and wisdom to know the difference.” And my sister said I came back and told her, very calmly, “Mark is dead.” And I called my daughter-in-law's mother and said, “You need to come out and see about Robin.” And I told the police, “You need to find my granddaughter,” because she took off screaming, running. And, by the time the friends came I said, “You guys got to go to work tomorrow, you need to go





home.” And I think I remember taking a pain pill and getting in bed, and that was it. [Voice breaking] You know, things happen and you have to deal with them.

	B:	What year was that? I:	December 5th, 2005.

	B:	Oh, okay, it wasn't long ago. I:	Unh-uh.

	B:	Wow. You have a very strong personality, to be able to—you just told that story— wow. Thank you for sharing that.

	I:	You're welcome.



	B:	And thank you for sharing your entire story. Everything that you've told us has been very eye-opening and interesting. It's been a pleasure to talk to you.

	I:	Thank you. Mmkay.



	M:	Quite a story.



	I:	See you guys later!



	B:	Well, let me close by just saying that I'm Anna Brodecht from the oral history program, and I'm here with Ryan Morini, who's participated in the interview. And with Mae Islar, who has just shared her entire story. And we're very appreciative. And also Mary Ann Suggs is in the room as well. She's the director of the Newberry branch of the Alachua County Library District. And today is March 1st.

	S:	No, I'm a library specialist.



	B:	I'm sorry. Library specialist in the Newberry branch of the Alachua County Library District. And today is March 1st, 2011.

	I:	Okay. Thank you.





	B:	Thank you so much! M:	Thank you.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Thompson, December 27, 2017 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, March 5, 2018

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019