AAHP 397; St. Julien; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 397 Maye St. Julien; Brian Jones African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Justin Hosbey; Randi Gill-Sadler on January 30, 2016 1 hour, 3 minutes | 25 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 397

Interviewee: Maye St. Julien; Brian Jones Interviewer: Justin Hosbey; Randi Gill-Sadler Date: January 30, 2016



	H:	Today is January the 30th, 2016, and we are here at the Moseley house with Mrs. Maye St. Julien. If you would just say your name for the record and today and— actually say your name and date of birth.

	S:	Oh, Maye Johnson St. Julien, October 23, 1937. G:	And Randi Gill-Sadler.

	J:	Brian Jones.



	H:	And Brian Jones, okay. And we are here in Eatonville, Florida, today. All right, so Miss Maye if you will just kind of tell us, we start the interviews oftentimes to continue thinking about your ancestry. So who’s the oldest relative that you can remember?

	S:	Well, I got several I remember all about the same age. My great-great grandmother and great-great aunts and uncles, and several other grands and—.

	H:	Do you remember their names?



	S:	Well, my great-great grandmother was Lydia, we called her Lila, but her name was Lydia Bail, I don’t know her maiden name. And I had an uncle who settled in outside of Detroit and he was a farmer in Michigan. In fact, I don’t, I can’t think of his name because of uncle something—

	H:	Okay, okay.



	S:	My great uncle was a graduate of Fisk University and he was there, he sang very well and he was in the Fisk choir and traveled for the school quite a bit. And when he graduated he went to Hungerford High School here, graduated, then went to Fisk, and when he left Fisk he settled in Indiana and taught fourth grade





most of his life. I don’t know how he did it, but he taught fourth grade, fourth graders would drive me batty. And he retired from teaching fourth grade and he also was—after retiring, I don’t know if he was co-partner or was just that dedicated, but he worked at a haberdashery and was very very involved in that, but I don’t know what his relationship was other than employment, retail specifically. And I know my grandmother. I didn’t know my father’s father, but I’ve been told who he is but I’ve never met him. His mother was never married but she had several children and my father was one of them. And I knew her and that was about all I knew on the paternal side except for his sisters and brothers. I didn’t know his extended family that well. My father often talked about the fact that his aunt, Rudy Bayes Hill as she was called, excelled. And when she died my father took the train to Mississippi, that’s where he lived, that’s where they grew up, in Mississippi and he took me with him on the train. And he was late and I’ve heard relatives talk about the fact that how he ran across the field wanting to get to see her as they were lowering the casket, and running with me in his arms. In fact, well, Mississippi is home for me, too. I was born in Mississippi, my parents moved here when I was less than a year old. So I don’t know too much about it except during my father’s lifetime we were very close to our extended families in Mississippi. Because he was very helpful to them in spiritual and economic ways.

	G:	What did your mother and father do for a living? S:	What mother and father, maternal or paternal? G:	Just your parents.





	S:	Oh, my parents—I don’t know how to describe it—in this day I guess you would call my father in one sense an entrepreneur, in another sense, a caretaker, and in another sense, he was a minister, very active minister, in fact, he moved up the ranks in the church of God in Christ. My mother didn’t work outside of the home until I was older, and until I was I would say probably what nowadays would be middle school. But she was home when I was younger, but after that she went to work doing day work, housekeeping, whatever you call it, maid, that’s what it is, in private homes. And what else did you ask me?

	G:	No that was all I asked you.



	S:	What kind of work did they do? But I want to say my father was also—I don’t know how to, he did a conglomerate of things. He also dabbled in real estate and he owned several properties and you know kept those up. That’s it.

	H:	Were those properties he ran in Eatonville?



	S:	Yes. Well one was found on the—what’s called—in Crystal River, Florida. He had a house down there where he would go fishing for an extended period. And it’s a nice little house, in fact, it is in Orange County now because when he stopped fishing he moved the house up here and it’s just outside of Eatonville. In fact, it gets its water from Eatonville. And my daughter lives in that house now and there’s some commercial property here in Eatonville and the first home that he owned that we lived in was—it’s now a commercial piece and also, and now I live in the home that he built, the last home that he built in the [19]60s.

	H:	And where is that home located in Eatonville?





	S:	306 Lemon Street, it’s my address. Which is not too bad for walking over here. Lemon Street is a cross street out here I believe. And then you just continue.

	H:	Okay, so what was it like growing up here in Eatonville? You said you really were raised here. So what was it like being a child here?

	S:	Well, I think my situation in some senses was, in many ways kind of different from the average African American child who grew up in Eatonville. I was the only child. No sisters or brothers ever. And my parents were very close knit, very family-oriented. And were very, I feel that they were very overprotective. And I was very very close to my father who was more adventurous, had more adventurous spirit than my mother, my mother was, even though neither of my parents had a high school education, but my mother was a great reader, she loved books. She was constantly reading and she taught me to read before I started elementary school. I was already an accomplished reader. And as I said she was home until I reached a certain age and was very dedicated to rearing me. I can remember when I turned 12 or was it 13, one of them, the gift that my mother gave me for my birthday was Emily Post’s Book of Etiquette. [Laughter] You see what I’m sayin’ about it being a little different. Those were the things that were important to her. We used cloth napkins, at least whenever—I’m skipping around, but when I was an adult and came back home for any reason, it was always cloth napkins and glass glasses, no plastic. My father, as I said, was very adventurous, he traveled a lot. Even when he became elderly I can recall that this wasn’t that long ago but quite a while, too, that my daughters—I had two daughters—who were five years apart and when my father was older we would





go to take him to the airport to put him on the plane and we wouldn’t be going anywhere but he was. So we would be walking down and riding the trolley or whatever they call that thing to get him on the plane. And I can remember him doing that for me when I was growing up. I was, I think I was in late elementary school that, in fact I’m sure I was, probably about fourth or fifth grade, but I would travel to Michigan to visit my maternal grandmother and my father would—I got to travel alone—my father and my mother would take me to the train station and at that time they had what they called traveler’s aide, and they would, they had to write up what I was wearing, what color it was, and you know what I looked like and all of that on a little card that one was put on my coat and the other was given to the traveler’s aide. I guess now that would be called a social worker. But they would call it a traveler’s aide then and they would put me on the train here in Winter Park and I would change trains, someone would meet me of that same capacity in Jacksonville, where I changed trains after being on wherever the train stopped you know that person was responsible that I would get food and you know, that my needs were met. And that’s what I mean by my life was a little different, which I didn’t realize at the time.

	G:	Was your mother from Michigan originally?



	S:	No, both of my parents were from Mississippi. Both were born and reared and they were married in Mississippi, and my father, because he was—my father’s family was a bit dysfunctional shall we say. And that’s from the things I’ve heard about how they related and this and that. But my mother had a very close knit family, so what happened was my father became very very close to my mother’s





brothers and of course then he was attracted to my mother and that’s when they got married. And my father was sixteen and my mother was thirteen when they married, can you believe that? It’s mind boggling, but they made it. And when my mother’s brothers were, I wouldn’t say they were adventurous, but they moved from Mississippi and one was a proprietor of a chain of tire stores in Mississippi, on the Eight Mile Road if you know anything about Detroit. But that’s where his proprietorship was. Before that he had run a night club here. So my father, you know, followed them here, with my mother they were married there. He followed my mother’s brothers basically. And after they had been here a while they moved to Detroit with the industrial boom of the automobile, they all worked in those automobile companies. Even my uncle who owned the chain of tire stores, worked for them. He worked in Flint, come to think of it, where they’re having those problems now. And so my father basically received a lot of his training, ideas, from my mother’s family.

	G:	And when you would be going to Michigan on a train would that be in the summers?

	S:	Yeah, because of school.



	G:	So you would spend the whole summer up in Michigan?



	S:	Well, no, not that long. No, my father would not have permitted me to stay that long.

	H:	He wanted you back home.



	S:	Oh, yeah. But my father and I were very, very close. Of course with my mother, too, but my father was more active and involved and one time he would take up





different ideas and work with them and he would always allow me to be at his side. And my mother was basically a homebody. You know, reading her James Baldwin, she loved James Baldwin. And that’s you know, basically my mother was very, very quiet, she didn’t talk much. She wasn’t illiterate by any means but she was just a quiet soul. And she taught me a lot of things: how to sew, she made my own clothes, she made my clothes and some of hers. It was, there were things that happened. I can remember one time we went—before my father had a vehicle, you know this train track down here? My father would walk to that train track, take that track to Winter Park, to the grocery store, take me with him. I was little now. Take me with him, I remember this very vividly. And how he did it I don’t know, but he would put me on his shoulders and have his grocery in both hands and walk all the way back home. That unreal, unreal. Because that, to me is a short distance, because the road wasn’t straight like it is now, it was like a snake. And as I said, my father—people used to say I should have been a boy because my father was so, wanted me to be so involved, even when we didn’t have to—after he got a vehicle when he would go someplace, nine times out of ten he would take me with him. And in his car I can remember once we were taking a short trip somewhere and a couple of men, must have been three men, because it was one in front, two in the back and me. And the men were talking about something, and—oh dear, my thoughts I have gotten ahead of myself. The men were talking and I said something, in the car, and obviously this particular man and I remember his name, Dougherty, but he commented that I should keep my mouth shut because this is the grown folks talking. And my dad turned





around and he looked [laughter] he didn’t say anything, but oh, he slowed down real slow and turned around and looked at him and let him know he had gone too far. And that’s some of the things I remember about my growing up. I remember this main street out here was, I grew up on this street, Kennedy, but my father built another house on Lemon, and I was away at college when he built that house. But now I live in it, so this is the first time I’ve really lived in it. And used to be sand, and then it moved to clay, and then it was rocks and then it was tarred. And I had—my mother’s oldest brother had a daughter who was the same age I am but different months, but born the same year. And we were out in the side of the road, because we lived on the road. And the tar was hot and we started eating the tar, and that’s the only time, one of the few times I remember getting a spanking. But my mother tore it up. But I never, ever remember my father raising his hand to me, ever. Striking me for any reason. In fact, after I became I think I was sixteen, my father, we would take trips, and my father would always open the car door for me after I was sixteen, he really treated me like a lady. I mean I didn’t realize it at the time I thought that everybody had this kind of appreciation, appreciative gestures toward them.

	H:	He was showing you how he wanted you to be treated.



	S:	Yeah, yeah, I’m sure. And oh, he used to, my mother had very long flowing hair and my father decided at one point to start taking me to the beauty shop. Just to get shampoo and—but I later realized in my young adult why he did that because every trip we made to the beauty shop and it would be on a Saturday, every other Saturday we would go to Winter Park, he and I in the car. And it was on





those trips that he would talk about what not to let boys get away with. [Laughter] He chose that as an opportune way to really get his message over.

	G:	Do you remember the name of the hair salon that you went to?



	S:	I know it was on Pennsylvania in Winter Park, but I don’t remember the name. H:	Do you remember any of the hairdressers there? Any of their names?

	S:	That’s what, that’s what it was called. Miss So-and-So’s but I don’t remember, I can see her face but I don’t remember her name. What was her name? I don’t know. And we used to go back to Mississippi pretty often. Or at least twice a year. And I was telling my daughter the other day how I remember we were somewhere, we were talking about the sunset, and we were so impressed with a particular Sunday we had walked the dog or something. And then I was telling her how we used to go to Mississippi and dad would always want to leave before day in the morning. Before dawn. And I told her how one of the most precious days I remember about getting ready for those trips was the sun, the rising of the sun. I said, “Oh, those were such beautiful, beautiful scenes that, you know, had we not been getting up to make this trip, these trips I never would have had that experience of the sunrise.” I can remember sitting out on the porch, on one end of the porch looking at the sunrise off in the East. I can remember that vividly.

	H:	It seems like travel was so important to your family and you all traveled often.



Besides Mississippi, where did you guys travel to? And of course there’s Michigan.

	S:	Yeah, and Michigan and let me see, I lived in Hawaii for a while. I did my graduate study at the University of Hawaii and my mother came over there and





my father didn’t. And that was the first time my mother had ever flown in an airplane because she always said she wouldn’t. But I became a little bit ill in Hawaii so she took the plane and came right on over all that water. But my father, in his ministerial persona, he was always in Mississippi, number one for his family, but as he moved around in Mississippi he became like the preacher they wanted to come and preside over this and over that and they would pay his expenses and people would come. So that was opportunities for him too, and I mean they did that often and I don’t know where they got that money from, to fly him around like that. And let me see where else did we go? I think that those two places where the primary places.

	G:	Did you all ever go to the beach?



	S:	Yeah, but not on a regular basis. Occasionally we would go to the beach and to other places around like the Big Tree. Because Disney and all that wasn’t here when I was little. And we did a lot of board games at home, my mother and I and then my aunt would come, my great aunt Retta, would come. And we did board games on a regular basis. My father would not participate but he would be there. And we played music but not bad music. [Laughter]

	H:	Gospel?



S:  Well you know we played some gospel but we played some other kind to, but not juke or blues or that. Yeah, we did play a little blues, but very little. But it was just okay music. I don’t remember the name of it. But I can remember the occasional blues because I enjoyed it, so to this day I prefer blues.





	H:	In Mississippi where, which city or which town are your folks from in Mississippi?



Because we do a trip to Mississippi every year to the Delta, so what—



	S:	This is before the Delta, I’ve been to the Delta. They were in Bellefontaine County, which would be Eupora and I still have—you know Eupora? I still have cousins and relatives in Eupora, we keep up with each other. We don’t visit that often. I have another cousin who travels widely. She is a troubleshooter for Blue Cross Blue Shield and boy they send her all over the world just about, I’m serious. I said, “Gee whiz, why weren’t jobs like that available when I was coming up?”

	G:	And what was the name of the elementary school that you went to as a child?



	S:	Eatonville Elementary. It was the ugliest building I think I—it was painted dark brown, wood strips, had one long building. It had in the back was the third grade, fourth grade, and fifth grade all in one room and the next room was the first and second and the next room was the auditorium, which had a stage and un- removable seating. And that’s where we went to school. It’s no longer there, but the principal and his wife taught, between them, they taught both grades. So both were in both classrooms and they too reminded me of my parents in some ways because before they could get busses from the school board they would get cars and take us to St. Augustine, to the beach, so they ensured that the students were exposed to a lot more than they would have been otherwise. Because they had been doing that before the school board would even allow—I can remember in that school and now I just think about oh my God, how did—We would have the blackboard, that’s what it is, and every so often—God I hate this—every so





often a White doctor or dentist would come and talk to the class about, I can remember, “Y’all be sure to wash your hands before you leave the bathroom”. Just basic stuff that you were taught at home. But you know because this White man came and said it, in front of the class—“and brush your teeth”—I mean it was like the thinking in that time was Black folk were so dumb. Uh-huh. And oh my God that burns me up to this day. But of course at that time I wasn’t old enough to really feel the impact of the negativity of that, that I’m aware of now. But oh boy that bothers me even to this day. I think I think about it every morning when I brush my teeth. Now I don’t think about it at night cause I got other things on my mind. [Laughter] But really, just about every morning because he would come in the morning, and oomph. What a put down. We would go back to Mississippi three times a year—well three or four times a year and I was—my mother took me—my parents I shouldn’t say just my mother—my parents took me to see the woods that I was grown up. Old wooden house that I was born in, I saw that. And other things in Mississippi. I have been to the Delta, in fact, I taught at the University of Mississippi, USM, in Hattiesburg for four years, in their graduate school of social work. I taught for the master’s degree, taught students who were getting their master’s degrees.

	H:	Okay, I have one question, it’s about Club Eaton. Did you know about Club Eaton when you were growing up here?

	S:	Mm-hmm. I saw it.



	H:	What did you know, what did you hear or know about it?



	S:	That I couldn’t go there. [Laughter] That was definitely off-limits.





	H:	Right, right.



	S:	Yeah, that was definitely off-limits. I’m trying to think, did I ever go into Club Eaton? I think I might have slipped in there one time, for a very brief period, but I don’t know that much about Club Eaton except you know everybody was raving to go and they would have these people coming but that side of my life was very, very shaded. My parents took even the knowledge of that kind of lifestyle was not shared with me, and I was protected from it. The same with The Rainbow. Now did slip into Rainbow one time, but you know what would happen? The same thing happened the one time I went to a little club in Orlando, I get—where you can’t breathe—what you call that?

	G:	Asthma?



	S:	No, it’s—



	H:	Anxiety?



	S:	Yeah. I would have an anxiety attack, but it has another name. It’s not hypothermia, it’s. . .

	H:	Hyperventilate?



	S:	Hyperventilate. There you go. Yeah, I would hyperventilate. Each time I had to get out of there because just that was the way I was trained. You know you just don’t go in there, and be careful about associating with people who did go because that was just oh no, oh no.

	G:	Did your parents or—you mentioned the White doctor that would come to your school—did your parents or any teachers talk to you as a child about race or about how to interact with White people?





	S:	No. They didn’t talk about it, but just observing, especially my father’s behavior, around Whites, I gleaned a lot from that. And—

	G:	What kind of things did you see him do, or what did you glean from watching those interactions with him?

	S:	Well, he was born in Mississippi, raised in Mississippi, and you knew in Mississippi at that time they had the sidewalks were very high, and they still are in Eupora, and the thing was that if you were going walking down the street and a White man is coming then you get off the sidewalk. And that was his background because that was all he knew, so I would always notice that when we would be walking somewhere and go downtown or something he was very careful. He became very emotional in a very quiet way. But I don’t think he ever really grew out of that. But in other ways he, I don’t know, my father was well respected by the Whites that I knew. He, when he was a caretaker for an estate, he had his own building on the estate where he supervised all of their citrus work and they had this great big house and he cut the kid’s hair, well the one boy, it was one boy and a girl. He traveled to, I remember yeah, he asked me about traveling, yeah. My father used to go to Dothan, Alabama to, what do you call that? To negotiate the sale of the citrus that year. He would go and he would be the only African American at the table, everybody else was White, and we’re talking about fifteen-twenty men, seeing what the citrus was gonna sell for this year and auction it off to the products from the grow. This family chose to send my father to do their bidding and he would take me with him. They provided the car, and we would go to Dothan and when they realized what an education I was getting from





that, because, you know, I wasn’t shy around them and we talked just like you and I are talking, because it was like we weren’t sensitive to race in this particular setting. So they started sending their niece with us, who was the same age as I was, and of course integration was not to be heard of, so my father would take her—there was this Black family, I don’t know I think it was just a single momma who had a boy in the house, that’s where my father and I would always stay. But the White girl, Dad would take her to the motel and that had already been pre- arranged, drop her off there, and then we would go and he would pick her up and then we would go with him to the bidding. It was that kind of exchange. So, I became a little familiar with Dothan I don’t remember that much about it, but I had some warm feelings about Dothan because of those experiences, ‘cause I really enjoyed being with my father. Like I said, my father and I were closer than my mother and I, and he was very open with me, more open than my mother, not that my mother wasn’t open but my mother, she was very detailed person and that’s where, like now well I don’t know if you know or not but I do interior design and I’m the official interior design person for the festival in Hattiesburg for the past fifteen years, and those kinds of skills I learned from my mother. But the one thing my mother did not want me to do, was cook. And to this day I do not like to cook. [Laughter] You know I was just thinking yesterday I was in the kitchen and I was singing, “Lord, when was the last time this oven was turned on?” [Laughter] Oh, I always talked about my light bill and I want to say, “What would my bill be if I cooked?” [Laughter] And baked, especially, but that was always good, you know, to—my mother wanted me to be an intellectual, she really did. She didn’t





know what intellectual meant, you know she wasn’t familiar with the word, but she knew what her goal was, so we were always reading books. And another thing my mother and I did a lot was pick wildflowers. She had books on wildflowers so she could name them and all of that. And my father, he was familiar with plants and things too, and we would go out in the woods with him sometimes and he would tell me, he would say—my father never bought fertilizer, but he had beautiful garden and beautiful plants. And I have now garden and plants that I work in steadily. That’s my way of relaxing.—And my father would, just tricks of the trade, my father would say, “Now wherever you see a plot of beautiful grass, really healthy grass around a post or just the grass is greener in this spot,” he said, “That’s where you get your rich soil, so you don’t need fertilizer”. And I never would have thought of that, would you?

	H:	Nope. [Laughter]



	S:	But it’s true. And it’s true to this day. I cannot determine where the soil is rich and where it’s not. I love working in my yard. Is that it?

	H:	Well, I’ve got a few more questions.



	S:	Oh, I’m okay. I just thought you were— H:	No, no.

	G:	No, no.



	H:	I wanted to ask you about after Eatonville Elementary School. Where did you go for high school?

	S:	Hungerford.



	H:	Hungerford.





	S:	The Black high school. Yeah.



	H:	Okay, and what was it like at Hungerford?



	S:	All Black school, with all Black staff. [Laughter] But again, it was a very protected environment, and the teachers and the principal, I didn’t have but one principal, was always concerned and they got into personal things that not embarrassing things, but personal things that would help us along, that we don’t get in school now, and they made us comfortable and they took care of us, literally, literally.

	H:	It was a boarding school, so you lived on the campus?



	S:	Not it was not, it was not a boarding school when I went. I was about two or three years old when it was a boarding school, three or four I should say because my grandmother, my maternal grandmother, worked at Hungerford. She did—let me see. My great aunt, who was my mother’s mother’s sister, also worked at Hungerford. One of them, I think her aunt supervised the laundry and my grandmother supervised the kitchen. And they would take me with them to work sometimes and you know how it is when a little one would come around the big kids and you know just bask in all that. [Laughter] So I got a lot of that too you know? And they would want to comb my hair, and do this and do that and I could remember a time my mother said, “Don’t let anybody comb your hair.” [Laughter] But she didn’t always do that, but there were times where she didn’t want them fiddling.

	H:	Okay, and then after Hungerford, when you graduated, what was next for you? S:	[Coughing] I went to, I had a scholarship to a school in Knoxville, Tennessee, but

I hated it. Oh, I despised that place. So I wouldn’t go back. So then the next year,





that summer, I transferred to Bethune-Cookman. And after that, I later in life, I had a fellowship to some graduate study at the University of Hawaii.

	G:	Well what were you studying at Bethune-Cookman College?



	S:	Basically Sociology. You know they didn’t have all those areas you could specialize in back then. But the only thing I knew was that I didn’t want to be a teacher. I knew that, and still don’t. Not children, you know?

	H:	Right, right. I’m in Anthropology so it’s similar. S:	Oh, okay, yeah.

	H:	At Hawaii, what were you studying at Hawaii? S:	I got my master’s in Social Work.

	H:	What was that like for you, just being from Florida and then going to Hawaii?



	S:	Oh, that was a lot of fun. I had, what they call, the East to West Fellowship, which meant me from the West and the other person from the East, right? And my roommate was a young lady from Japan, and she had not been exposed to the ways of the West and I had not been exposed to those of the East so, and that was the whole point of the fellowship, to not only continue the education but to get the exposure of the cultures. And I can remember vividly the thing that, that impressed with that I remember had the most significance to me. When we went out one day and she had never eaten an ice cream cone, and it’s amazing, we take it for granted, right, how to do it, so we don’t—she could not manage—it was just like you would see a baby with ice cream and not know how to balance. [Laughter] It was just dripping everywhere. Just like a kid. She had not learned,





you know, she had never eaten an ice cream cone before. So, it was things like that that kept us busy. It wasn’t a boring time at all.

G:   And what year were you in Hawaii?



S:   Oh lord, I don’t know. I really don’t. Let’s see I finished high school in [19]55, and I finished college in [19]58, and I worked—this is where it gets tricky—I worked, I don’t remember how many years I worked before applying for that scholarship. It was a long. . .it may have been four or five years.

G:  Where did you work in between college in Hawaii? Where did you work? S:   For the Department of Public Welfare, here. And hated it.

H:   Why’d you hate that, why?



	S:	Oh it’s depressing. I mean you want to help people and all, but Lord, a steady diet of it. And I worked mostly with elderly folk, and then with families, and I said, “I’ve got to get out of this”. So that’s when I applied for the fellowship. Then, after the master’s I came back here and worked with a psychiatrist, worked in the office with him, and did therapy. And I was very respected. If I had told him a patient needed a certain kind of medicine, a psychotropic drug, he didn’t question it ‘cause I kept good notes and he would write that prescription just like that. And then I’ve done a radio talk show for a while. You know this is just stuff I was interested in and found somebody to let me do it for a while, and then became bored. [Laughter]

	H:	Moved on. [Laughter]



	S:	Yeah. I did adoptions for the Catholic diocese for eight years. Now that was very interesting, working with all of these wealthy-wealthy, upper-middle, upper-upper





class people will all kinds of money looking to adopt little White babies. [Laughter] But I enjoyed it, but then that got old too. And then, I went to Mississippi, as I told you, and taught at the university. I taught—I wrote a curriculum for the Air Force. They put out a call for someone to write a syllabus, set up a curriculum for, this was when race-relations were on the forefront, and they wanted someone to write this curriculum for a class on race-relations so I took a chance ‘cause I really didn’t know that much about it, but I just basically talked about my own experiences in very intellectual terms. You see what I’m saying? So that’s what I did and they wanted it. So then they advertised for somebody to teach it so I taught it. [Laughter] For the Air Force.

	H:	Might as well.



	S:	So, I just like to keep busy. I don’t like to clean house. [Laughter] I’m just not that domestic. I want to work in my yard somedays when the weather’s good, and the climate and the season is right. I hate for it to get dark ‘cause I want to work in my yard.

	G:	What brought you to, how did you get connected with the Zora Neil Herston festival?

	S:	‘Cause it’s just across the street. [Laughter] Well, it’s really right here. It’s really on the corner, though you can’t see—yes you can see part of it. I was not here when the festival started. Who was I living in? I wasn’t living here. Well I came— my parents forget, you know get a little feeble and then I said, “Well I’m going back home,” and see what I can do for them, and I remember the first festival, I observed most of it from my front yard. I must’ve, say, I had been here about, it





was about my third year back that I got involved with it. As you must be able to tell, discern, I’m not one to sit back and keep my mouth shut. So they were talking and different experience and so then I just went over there and started volunteering and exposed my talents, particularly my design talents, and accepted a few offers. And I’ve been doing this now, and I do it year-round though it’s not as intense, because when the dates come up I do the e-net design and all of that. Sometimes when they need special gifts I make them like baskets and stuff like that. And one of the baskets I made for Beth’s auction and I made about—oh Lord it was a lot of baskets—about fifteen baskets. And they auctioned them off and the highest bid that won was thirteen dollars, I mean three hundred dollars on one basket. It’s just one of those things that evolved and really, I see myself as divided on—this part of my existence is based on what I learned from my father and the other side is what I learned from my mother, uh- huh about the detailed work and being very patient. I remember one time I made something and I was putting beads on it and I had to use tweezers—

	H:	One by one.



	S:	One-by-one to put those little beads in place and I enjoyed it. One of my friends said, “There is no way,” [Laughter] “There is no way I could sit and do that.” But I love it. And just the festival that’s going on now, they had a dinner for three hundred people, which meant thirty tables at ten people per table and I did all the décor for each of those tables, you know the center piece. And as my work is not a bowl of flowers. This was a dinner that was based on the kinds of foods that Zora would have eaten and made. The food, oh my God that food was good. Mr.





Cunningham, who is a resident, did that cooking, and if you ever want good food, Lord Jesus that food was good. They had beef stew, chicken and dumplings, fried catfish, and grilled tilapia, and they had black-eyed peas, rice, corn, pudding, collard greens, corn bread, sweet potato pie, and upside down cake, that pineapple cake because this is what Zora would have eaten. So I pretty much have free ranged when it comes to the designs that I do, because I’ve done it so long that they kind of leave me alone.

	H:	They trust you, they trust your taste. [Laughter] They know you have good taste. S:	And they know if they bother me they’re gonna have trouble. [Laughter] And I do my own budget, and they know that I’m a thrifty person, but for these thirty tables

I did bird nests. I bought these dried stuff you get. I did that and buffed them all up, and put one long stick in each one across the way and then at the top I put one thing—two or three things sticking up—and in the middle I had—when Christmas ornaments went on sale I saw these things that was made from, what do you make—Crow sack? What do you call that stuff? Potato sack? Anyway, I saw made from that, and it was flexible, and so I made little birds.

	H:	Oh, from that?



	S:	From that, yes. And so each table had a nice bird nest. I mean, it turned out really nice. Yeah, I’m always amazed at what you can do if you put your mind to it and I like seeing what I can do. Not how I do it, but what I can do. It’s always very important to me.

	H:	Did you learn about Zora—Did you know about Zora beforehand, or did you learn about her through the festival?





	S:	No, I—well yes and no. I had heard about Zora from maybe it was older people that I knew in the community and in fact, Zora’s book about Eatonville abusing men, uh-huh, and all those character’s that she talk about in there, well I knew most of those people. The thing is she wrote about them when they were young, but when I knew them they had gotten old, they had advanced in age. So, I could read this and she’d talk about Mister So-and-so, this happened to him and that.

I’d say, “Oh that’s why he limped.” And then another man, in fact right across the street, Mr. Sewell something about him, I’d say, “Oh, that’s why he stood in his front yard and watched everything so closely.” Things just came together. But anyway, that’s it.

	G:	Do you have any more questions?



	H:	Well no, I think that was all I had. Did you have a question? G:	No.

	S:	Did I talk—he slept. [Laughter] You slept. J:	No, I was awake.

	S:	Oh, yeah with your eyes closed. [Laughter] J:	Well, I read those, I apologize.

	S:	Oh no. I—don’t. You don’t owe me any apology. You do whatever. [Laughter] I was enough.

	J:	It wasn’t that you was boring. But— S:	You’re tired probably.

	J:	I do research for the museum here and I stayed up late last night doing research. S:	Oh, okay I see. Like I said, you’re probably tired.





	H:	Well, Ms. Maye I did want to ask one more thing, though. Is there anything that you want to add to the record, or that you would like to share?

	S:	I’m trying to think. I would just kind of summarize by saying that basically I realize that I had an excellent childhood. That, with an only child, with only one child, my parents were able to provide and give me adequate attention that most—a lot of parents don’t have the opportunity to do. I’ll tell you about this one time about—I said my mother made most of my clothes. And she would make my undergarment, my slip. And she would just buy some plain, all white cloth and sew up the slip, front and the back. But it would be nice.—and I decided that I wanted lace on my slip, and my father said, “No, we don’t have money for lace.” And we were right down at Winter Park in front of this store called Leaders. It’s not there no more and I said, “I want some lace.” I cried all the way home. My father had to turn around [Laughter] and go back to Leaders. We went right back to Leaders, he gave my mother the money and he said, “Now you stay in the car.” [Laughter] And my mother went in and got that lace for that slip and sewed it on that night. Yeah, ‘cause she had just made a new slip see, but I wanted some lace on my slip. From then on I had lace on my slip. [Laughter]

	G:	And for the record, I don’t know if we ever got your mom and dad’s name.



	S:	Okay, my father’s name was Floyd, F-L-O-Y-D. And my mother was Lela, L-E-L- A Maye. Her married name was Shaw, Shaw Johnson.

	H:	Okay, and your father was Floyd Johnson? S:	Uh-huh.

	H:	And then what was his church?





	S:	Church of God in Christ.



	H:	Thank you so much Ms. Maye. S:	I’m not rushing you now.

	H:	No, no thank you so much. G:	No, thank you so much.

	S:	Thank you. My daughter’s going to the festival and she’s going to bring me some mullet fish so I’m trying not to eat. [Laughter]

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Richard Brust and Samantha Crisanti, September 5, 2018 Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, September 20, 2018

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 26, 2019