AAHP-011A; Mitchell; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 011A Arnold Mitchell African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on March 2, 2010 43 minutes | 19 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Arnold Mitchell talks about growing up in Gainesville. He discusses attending Lincoln High School, and his experiences getting involved in the music industry, first locally and then nationally. Mr. Mitchell shares his reflections on integrating the Gator Growl at the University of Florida.



Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; University of Florida; Lincoln High School]

























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 011A

Interviewee: Arnold Mitchell Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: March 2, 2010



	W:	This is Marna Weston with the Oral History Program at the University of Florida on March 2, 2010, in Pugh Hall with Mr. Arnold Jake Mitchell. Mr. Mitchell, thank you very much for honoring us with your time and be willing to come and speak with us, today.

	M:	My pleasure.



	W:	Mr. Mitchell, ultimately, we are going to talk about the really exciting aspect of this interview which is that in 1960, fifty years ago, you were the headlining act for Gator Growl at the University of Florida, and what you describe, as the first interracial act that actually brought in 10,000 extra seats for the segregated African American audience to enjoy the show as well.

	M:	Right.



	W:	Before we begin to talk about that incredible story, and how it adds to the richness of our community and the history of the University of Florida that many may not know of until now, I would like to ask you a little bit about yourself.

Would you please state your full name and let us know when you were born and where.

	M:	My name is Arnold Jake Mitchell. I was born in Tampa, Florida. I was born July 13, 1944, which I’m sixty-five years old now.

	W:	Okay, actually, you are just about the same age as my Mom. Yesterday was her birthday so you were born the same year. Who were your parents?





	M:	My parents was Cubans. My mother’s name was Thelma Ramirez. Her father’s name was José Ramirez. He was born in Cuba. My mother’s deceased. She died at the age of thirty-nine years old. And I am an only child.

	W:	Very interesting here, the parallels here. My mother’s nickname was Thelma. That was her name when she met my Dad; everybody in the family calls her Thelma. Do you recall information about your mother and father’s mother and father?

	M:	Yeah. I was very close to my grandmother. W:	On your mother’s side or your dad’s side?

	M:	On my mother’s side. I was close to my grandmother on my father’s side. I was more closer to my mother’s mother. Her name was Celia Davis. She is the one who brought me here in 1959 to Gainesville. I did the last three years of my schooling here in Lincoln High School. I graduated in 1962.

	W:	Now, about your grandparents, I would love to talk about Lincoln High School, because that is such an important part of the history of Gainesville. So glad to be able to share some of that with us as well. Do you recall where your grandmother, Silvia Davis, was from or information about her family?

	M:	Well, my grandmother, she was a Childs. Her mother’s name was Chaney Childs. She was born in Georgia. She died in 1964, and as I said, I was very close to her because she brought me from Tampa, because we was raised with my grandfather, José Ramirez. They had separated and she had remarried again to George Davis, who, as a matter of fact, worked at the University of Florida for about almost fifty years himself.





	W:	What area did he work in?



	M:	Ah, he was in cleaning and stuff like that. He was here for about fifty years. His name was George Davis. When my grandfather died in 1950, my grandmother came back to Tampa and took two of her childrens back to Gainesville. I was the first born of sisters’ children. My mother was the oldest one, and I was the oldest grandchild. As I said, I was very close to my uncles. And the ages just fluctuated and were very close behind each other. You know, we were very close. My two uncles came back to Gainesville with my grandmother after their father passed. My grandfather, José, because we lived in the projects. I used to sing for Wholesome Bread Company during that time. It was poor people kept coming up. They used to have, what you call, talent show. Once a month—I used to always win that talent show. My uncle always told me, “Jake, the bread people out here, so boy we gotta go get this here bread to feed the house.” One of the main songs I used to always sing was by B.B. King called “Woke Up This Mornin’”. And boy, I sure always win first prize. I used to win the bread, because they used to have those little small loaves about like this here. I used to win so many of them, it is a shame. I would take them home and we would be able to eat bread. It was somethin’. I have been entertaining all of my life, mostly, as I said, when I was six years old.

	W:	Now, I know we said this would be an interview but you just piqued my curiosity, because of your professionalism you are beyond talent competitions, but could you share a little bit of “Woke Up This Mornin’” with B.B. King for us—just a little taste?





	M:	[Singing] “I woke up this mornin’. My baby was gone. Woke up this mornin’. My baby was gone. I feel so bad since my baby been gone.”

	W:	You did that cold! [Laughter] So, you know your business. M:	Yeah, yeah.

	W:	Thank you. I’d like to talk to you about your education a little bit. Where did you go to school in Tampa?

	M:	I first started in school at Dunbar Elementary in Tampa. I went from there to College Hill in Tampa. My ninth year in school; I went to Howard W. Blake in Tampa. And I did the remaining of my years in Gainesville at Lincoln High, which I graduated. I went to Lincoln High in 1959, from [19]59 to [19]62. I finished there. I went to the University of Bridgeport; I went to cooking school. I was executive chef at the University of Bridgeport for fifteen years, and I came back here in 1986 because my father was in the funeral business. We had two funeral homes. One was in Brooksville and one was in Dade City.

	W:	Do you recall the names of the funeral homes?



	M:	The name of the funeral home was Evans Funeral Home. That was my father.



That was it.



	W:	Were you ever inclined toward going to mortuary science?



	M:	Well, my father always wanted me to go, but he gave me a choice. He said, “I don’t want to force your hand to do nothin’ that you don’t like to do. I noticed that you like to sing.” And that was my profession because I was singing professional for over fifty years. I had my own record company in Detroit, Michigan.

	W:	What was the name of the record company?





	M:	Golden Hit Production. Had my own promotion company. W:	What was the name of your promotion company?

	M:	Worldwide Promotion, which is listed in Detroit. And in 1968, they predicted I would be another Barry Gordon, because Barry Gordon is one of the most successful Black producers during that era. They had the Supremes, the Four Tops, The Temptations, Marvin Gaye, Gladys Knight and the Pips and all that was his; they called it “Motor City.” And I was a part of “Motor City.” And coming up, I was fortunate enough to have my own group in which I had The Hesitations that did “Born Free”. I had James Barnes & the Agents that put out “Free At Last” during the time when Martin Luther King was assassinated, which was a very big record for me. I was president of my own company. I had something like forty employees working for me back in 1968. I had my own hit record, also. I recorded for Chess Records in 1957. On the same masters tape was Chuck Berry during that time. Chuck Berry was one of the hottest entertainers in the world during that time. You had Chuck Berry, you had Little Richard, and you had Sam Cooke. I was out on the road with all of them. Then, I came back here. We had us a separate company, was Cha-Joc Records which I had my partner—his name was Charles Akin, and we recorded a big record here in the State of Florida which was called “The Ways of a Woman”—it was never known which was a very big record here. I played the Apollo Theater in New York about five times in a show with James Brown, The Temptations, The Impressions, Jerry Butler, Lou Rawls, Sam Cooke, Jackie Wilson and B.B. King is my Godfather. He adopted me. He is the one that motivated me to really get involved in show





business, because see, he picked me up when I was what—twelve years old. He used to play in Tampa a lot. And I went on the road with B.B. King. I had a private tutor, teacher. I had a teacher for something like three months out of a year, because I traveled on the road. I learned a lot and I love music.

	W:	Are you still in touch with B.B. King? M:	Yes. Yes, yes.

	W:	Do you get a chance to visit him over in Indianola? Have you seen his new museum?

	M:	No, I haven’t. As a matter of fact, me and Paul sent him an email here a while back and he got a big concert that was coming up. I haven’t heard from him since.

	W:	Hopefully you’ll get to work it out, because I know he does that summer concert in Indianola. I wanted to back up a little bit to your education just for a second. Do you recall your favorite subject in school?

	M:	Mathematics and music.



	W:	Who were your favorite teachers?



	M:	Mrs. Geraldine Miller—she’s died. She was my music teacher at Lincoln High.



She is deceased now. She was married to the band director at Lincoln High School, his name was Jerry Miller. But before she married her name was Miss Fields.

	W:	Why was she your favorite teacher?



	M:	Well, I guess she devoted a lot of time because I am not bragging or whatever, but I was very good—I was a good singer. I used to always make A’s and A’+s in





school. My singing group came out of our music class, which was Harold Lewis— he’s deceased—Ernest Long, who was the first Black sergeant on the police force in Gainesville, Henry Lewis, and Elijah Walker. All of them’s living today except Harold. We used to always go to the chorus festivals that they have every year, we used to always come out number one; our choir, Lincoln High. Mrs.

Miller just took me up under her wings, I guess, because I was dedicated to what I was doing. I always wanted to do the best that I could do.

W:  Lincoln High is almost apocryphal of the stories of its greatness for the past. What do you recall about your times at Lincoln High that you believe makes people remember it so fondly today?

	M:	Well, number one, it was the only Black high school in Gainesville—you had Alachua, but I am talking about Gainesville. You had good teachers there. It was mostly more like a family-like. We did everything together. The students there loved each other; they loved each other. And when they closed it down, it did something to us, because we wanted that school to continue to be a high school. We had some good students come out of Lincoln High. We had some good students. We had Stephan Mickle who is on the federal bench; he came out of Lincoln High School. We have had good football players and basketball players that come out of Lincoln. We have had good students who came out to be able to have their own business and stuff, because during that time, it was hard times coming up. And that is what made us so close together. Lincoln High was originated from A. Quinn Jones. It was just a good school; it was a family.

	W:	Did you know Mr. A. Quinn Jones?





	M:	Yes, I did.



	W:	What are your memories of him? What do you recall?



	M:	He was a humble man. He loved his students and he wanted them to become intelligent, smart, realize that the struggles that we had to go through, and he wanted the best for the students. He was a good principal.

	W:	I’d like to talk to you a little bit more about your family life. Are you married, sir? M:	Yes, I am.

	W:	Tell us about your wife, please.



	M:	First of all, I been married twice, okay? I have eight kids. I have a daughter; she’s a lawyer.

	W:	If you are going to mention your kids, if you wouldn’t mind, mentioning their names.

	M:	Her name is Martina Mitchell. I have a son—his name is Arnold Jr. He has his own remodeling business. I have another daughter. Her name is Bachelle Mitchell. She has four or five beauty shops, right now, in Detroit. I have my other son, Adeon Mitchell. He’d been with Ford Motors for something like twenty-five years. Alright, I have four of my kids here which I adopted three of them. My baby child—her name is Kisha Sumpter. She is employed right now in the health department at Shands Hospital. She also went to beautician school. She is an entrepreneur, also. I have two more boys which I adopted, Eric and Todd Sumpter and another daughter—her name is Tara Sumpter. I raised them from here up. And my wife’s name is Gloria Mitchell. We’ve been married, my second wife, going on five years. I love her. We were meant for each other. We have a





nice home out here on 19th Avenue off of Hawthorne Road. We both are retired. I am retired from work, but I am still entertaining now, full time.

	W:	How did you all meet?



	M:	I had just come back here. I had a death at the family and I met her at the funeral.

	W:	I am very sorry for your loss. What’s the important part about family? You were able to mention off all of your kids and everything that they did from your natural born children to your adopted children—all your children, your wife. What is the meaning that family has for you?

	M:	Family has a lot for me because I want to always give my kids the best that I could give them. I didn’t want them to come up like I did—through the hard times. You know, try to make things available for them. I wanted to make sure that they had the proper intelligence, education; to be able to deal with the problems that we have in the world today. Try to educate them about drugs and stuff or doing the right thing. And family means a whole lot to me.

	W:	Grands- and great-grands-?



	M:	Yes, I have grandkids; I have seventeen grandkids. M:	Too many to mention. [Laughter]

	M:	Yeah, about seventeen grands and I love them all.



	W:	I am sure they’re your joy. Let’s talk about Gainesville. You have been here since 1959, so you have seen incredible growth and change in Gainesville.

	M:	Yes I have.



	W:	Could you talk a little bit about what Gainesville was like in the early 1960s?





	M:	Well, when I came here, it was segregated. They used to have signs on the doors that Blacks come to the back, Whites to the front. I remember the time when Blacks would only go so far down University Avenue without being harassed.

	W:	Was there a line or people just knew how far to go? How did you know how far?



	M:	Well, you couldn’t go across 13th; that’s going toward University of Florida. You couldn’t be caught on University too much after dark, because the police would be on your back then. Black and White would go and get into a scuffle or something. But Gainesville came a long ways. I remember the time when we had to work for 65¢ an hour back in the [19]60s. I used to work at a drug store, like McDonald-Gresham’s; used to be downtown. That was one of the first places I worked when I came to Gainesville when I was going to school. When I got out of school, I had to go to work.

	W:	What was your job? What did you do then?



	M:	Washing dishes. That is what we all had to do: wash dishes, wash pots. When I started singing, not right when I started, but as our group was getting bigger and better and people started knowing us, Silverman’s Clothing Store, Mr. Joe Silverman who owned that store, took us up. He gave us our first uniforms which were black tuxedoes. The man cared for us; he showed us love. He was a Jewish man and everybody used to go to Silverman’s clothing store downtown. And he heard us sing one time and he saw we were trying to do something. And he took us under his wings. Anytime we had to perform, he made sure that we had the clothes to wear. It got so good he said, “I am going to give you all a





charge account. I am going to make millionaires out of you ‘because I want you to be successful.” I will never forget him saying that—telling us that.

	W:	I want to ask you how you felt when you put that tuxedo on the first time but just a quick side note—Mr. Silverman, is that Eileen Silverman’s father?

	M:	I believe so.



	W:	Okay. She is still a local businesswoman and married to Harvey Budd. M:	Yeah.

	W:	How did you feel when you put that tuxedo on?



	M:	Oh, man, we felt like we had a million dollars. Oh, yes we did. We used to be sharp. Oh, we used to be sharp. We used to have those patent leather shoes. And during that time, wearing a tuxedo—oh, that was extraordinary! Mr.

Silverman took us under his wing; he was a good man. I used to go to that store any time I needed anything. He said, “Come here son. What you want?” He would dress us up. He was crazy about the group.

	W:	Now, how long did you keep that relationship with Mr. Silverman?



	M:	We kept that relationship with Mr. Silverman until we left Gainesville and went on the road to start singing.

	W:	Was he involved at any level in your management or making arrangements –? M:	No.

	W:	Just a friend.



	M:	He was a friend. We came out of Lincoln High and he was getting the buzz about our singing and all that. I went in that store one day. I said, “Fellas, we need to get some uniforms.” Mr. Silverman gave us our first set of uniforms.





	W:	What was downtown Gainesville like in 1960?



	M:	It was segregated. You didn’t find too many Blacks downtown. You had only a section of town that you could mess around in. You had a lot of prejudice people in Gainesville during that time.

	W:	Now, what about the Fifth Avenue section? M:	That was the Black area.

	W:	Tell us about Fifth Avenue.



	M:	Fifth Avenue was a strip; we used to call it a strip. You get all the nightclubs on Fifth Avenue. You had Sarah McKnight’s, you had 77 Sunset Strip, you had Mama’s Kitchen, you had Fletcher’s; that was the strip of Gainesville. That was where everybody used to go at.

	W:	Now, of all those things you mentioned, only Fletcher’s is still there. M:	Fletcher’s is still there. He is the only one surviving, today.

	W:	What is the difference between Gainesville in 1960 and looking out for you on this University of Florida campus today in 2010?

	M:	Oh, what a turnaround. What a turn around. Where Gainesville came from since the [19]60s is unbelievable. Where University of Florida came from since 1960 is unbelievable. It is a complete turnaround. To be able to sit here and talking with you today, that was impossible back in the [19]60s. And that’s a blessing. To show you how the world is moving now, you know? It is not like we were thinking about being in bondage from years ago. You are able to lift your standards to a higher standard today. All you have to want to do is to motivate yourself. You can be whatever you want to be today. That is a blessing.





	W:	1960 is a good place for us because we eventually want to get to the show.



Could you first tell us a little bit about the members of your band and then we will talk about how you ended up in that historic 1960 show at Gator Growl.

	M:	Okay, it was a White friend of mine, he was a Jew. His name was Frank Buccafurno. He played drums and he heard my group singing at a talent show. He came to me. He said, “My name is Frank. I am going to law school at the University of Florida.” He said, “We can do something. We had an all-White band with five Blacks headlining the band.” We used to practice everything. So, Frank booked us at our first fraternity job on what was called fraternity row –where all the Jewish houses would be on—fraternity row. And we played there.

	W:	Do you remember which fraternity house it was?



	M:	I have forgotten the name of it; it been such a long—I forgot it. But we played at Delta and all of them. We started there. And the word got out. Boy, they got a bad group out there called Little Jake and the Brothers. They got a White band and they got Black singing group and boy, they powerful. And the word spread all across the campus of University of Florida. And from that fraternity house, we played every fraternity house on the University of Florida campus. We was booked two years solid every weekend, Friday and Saturday. Back in that time, if you made $250, that was big money. So, we used to make $500 every weekend which was big money. We was booked two years solid. We played every fraternity house, sorority house on this campus. Our group became a household name on the University of Florida campus. In 1960—talking about the Gator Growl, now, right?





	W:	Uh-huh.



	M:	Okay.



	W:	How did that come about—to get Gator Growl?



	M:	That is what I am fixing to get in, now—to get there, now. The committee that was on that committee had heard us playing. They used to come to the dances that we played—producers, all of them. They came to me and they say, “Little Jake, we are going get you to play for Florida Homecoming Gator Growl. You are going to be in the parade, TV, in the paper, everything.” That was good for us, okay. They set up this committee and they had this other group called the Pyramids, and the committee wanted us. I sat down with the committee and the producer of the show. I said, “There is not but one way that I would play—my group and I would play—for the Homecoming, Gator Growl, and that is if you make it possible for my people to be able to come and see us.” I met the president of the University of Florida, Mr.Reitz. He took my hand and was very enthusiastic about it. And they agreed to put 10,000 bleachers in the end zone.

They built it up so big, it was a shame. There were so many people there, it was a shame. They put 10,000 bleachers there, but I want to bet you, it was almost 30,000 people there. They came from all over the state of Florida to see our group, Little Jake and the Blenders.

	W:	What did you play? What was your set? M:	What did I sing?

	W:	Uh-huh.





	M:	I did “Right Around the Corner”. Hank Ballard and the Midnighters did this song so I don’t know if you remember Hank Ballard. He’s the one who put out “The Twist”. Okay, I did, “Last Night I Dreamed”, and I did “Turn on Your Love Lights”. I did that. I did four songs. The band played about two or three songs before we came on. We closed the show with the headliners. We closed the show.

	W:	So, the Pyramids went first? M:	Yeah.

	W:	Y’all came afterwards.



	M:	Yeah, we closed the show. A song we used to love to do—one of those songs that really got me into the University of Florida—was “The Last Night I Dreamed”. I used to love that song. It was by the Fiestas. I used to go way up high. That was the last song I did, when we played at the Gator Growl. And the crowd went berserk. Matter of fact, had to do it again.

	W:	You had an encore. M:	We had an encore.

	W:	Do you recall the song, still? M:	I remember.

	W:	Could you give us another little taste?



	M:	[Singing] “Last night, I dreamed of holding you tight. It was a lovely dream of holding you tight.”

	W:	That was more than a taste; that was part of the meal. [Laughter] M:	Yeah, yeah.

	W:	Who were the members of your band?





	M:	Frank Buccafurno, Charlie, Jeff Jones; all of them were White boys. The guitar player was named Romo. It was a four piece band, and it was five in the group singing. As I said before, all of us are living except one. Harold Lewis—he’s the first tenor; he’s deceased. Ernest Long was the first Black sergeant on the police force in Gainesville. He is living; he was a bass. He sung bass. Henry Lewis, who was alto, he’s living. And Elijah Walker was alto. He’s still living. There are four of us living and one deceased.

	W:	You have expressed some interest and this came to our attention through Paul Cohen, who you are close with who was kind enough to help us.

	M:	Oh, I am very close to him.



	W:	You have expressed some interest in maybe coming back to Gator Growl again one day—maybe even this year. What is going on with that?

	M:	Well, we are trying very hard because this will be the fiftieth year anniversary that Blacks were able to go to Florida Homecoming Gator Growl which was desegregation back in 1960. By us being the first Black African American group to perform at that Gator Growl—and fifty years later, I am still performing—it would be historical if it was like a reunion that we perform again. It has been in my spirit and in my heart for this to happen. Paul Cohen has done everything in his power to try to make this thing possible. He labored to try to make it work, researched it, getting involved. Paul has his own business but he took time out to work with this here, because he feels that it is an important thing that should happen, again. I believe that it is going to happen. I have a very good group now called the Soul Searchers. I have a seven piece band. We are going to do a





concert in June 4 at Bo Diddley’s Plaza; free concert which is on a Friday night. People are probably come all over Gainesville to be there. This will be one of the first big concerts that I did in Gainesville since we reunited. I am just praying that it happens.

	W:	So are we. I’m very interested that you mention Bo Diddley because there has been so much adoration and hoopla now that he is gone. At the University of Florida, he was given a posthumous degree and they have named the plaza after him, and all of this has happened after he’s passed on. I wonder, do you have personal recollections of Bo Diddley?

	M:	I played with Bo Diddley. I played with Bo Diddley in Chicago. Bo Diddley is not from Gainesville. He used to play the jukes back in the time.

	W:	The Chitlin’ Circuit.



	M:	The Chitlin’ Circuit. Bo Diddley, Howlin’ Wolf, Muddy Waters—that was the Chitlin’ Circuit. It was education, because we learned from them. We learned from them, because when I was coming up, I played on the Chitlin’ Circuit for a while. I was educated from playing in honky-tonks and stuff like that. It was educational and like I say, Bo Diddley deserves that.

	W:	Who was the musician that you met traveling to primarily Black audiences or Black clubs on the Chitlin’ Circuit that you feel was the most influential in your development, or if you can mention a couple?

	M:	B.B. King and Bobby “Blue” Bland.



	W:	Why the two of them? I know B.B. King was your Godfather. Why Bobby ‘Blue’ Bland?





	M:	Well, Bobby and B.B. was close. And those two were very essential in me being where I am today because they motivated me. But I played with Jackie Willison, Sam Cooke. I played with all of them. I played with Roy Hamilton, the one who put out “Unchained Melody”. I was on tour with Roy Hamilton; I played all through Kansas. This is when I had my guardian. I was young. As I said, I made my first recording in 1957 and my mother was very protective of me. So, she wouldn’t let me go anywhere unless this certain person was on the road with me whose name was John Flint Roy. He was my road manager, okay? And Horatio who was an Italian, was my manager. When I was out there on that Chitlin’ Circuit, he was with me. Johnny Flint Roy is deceased now. He knew the record business from bottom to top—top to bottom. And he was the one who made it possible that I recorded with Chess Records. He started my career.

	W:	As you think back on your career, fifty plus years later, what lessons have you learned that you can share with the rest of us?

	M:	I learned that whatever you want in life, you got to strive for it. You have got to take the good with the bad. You got to take the hard bumps with the soft bumps. But if you are sincere, whatever you want to do, and dedicated to what you want to do, it is possible that it will happen. But if you lose focus in the direction that you want to go, everything that you want to do will be in vain. And I have always wanted to be the type of person that you could say something good about me, not bad about me. And I try to carry myself that way. That was very important to me in my life.





	W:	That is a good lesson. My Dad always loved the song “If I Could Help Somebody”.

	M:	“If I Could Help Somebody”.



	W:	Uh-huh I am going to try a little bit of it. I want to know if you will do a little bit with me.

[They both sing] “If I can help somebody as I pass along. If I can show somebody with a word or a song. If I can show somebody he is traveling wrong. Then, my living shall not be in vain.” You are very kind to help me along with that.

	M:	[Laughter]



	W:	Mr. Arnold Jake Mitchell, it has been such an honor to have this time with you today. And I know that the University of Florida is honored to have you present— that you consider it enriching our legacy by being a part of our continuing efforts to bridge Gainesville and the university community. And we are just so very thankful that you were able to do this interview today.

	M:	And I appreciate the invitation. W:	Thank you very much.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Anna Jimenez, July 22, 2013. Audit-Edited by:	Jennifer Romero, July 10, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 16, 2019