AAHP 436; Grimes; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 436 Jetson Grimes

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Vickie Oldham on September 4, 2015 32 minutes | 16 pages



Abstract: Mr. Jetson Grimes reflects on his life experiences in Newtown, Florida. He discusses his role models including his aunt who started a cleaning business. She had a great impact on him to become a businessman himself. He shares how he started to be a barber and open his own barbershop. He also reflects on the importance of barbershops in Black communities. Mr. Grimes also reflects on the process of desegregation in his community and personal experiences of desegregating a bus. He shares his involvement in integrating theaters and beaches as well as the attitude of the Black community during the time of desegregation in the Sarasota area.



Keywords: [African American History; Sarasota, Florida; Newtown, Florida; Segregation; Civil Rights Movement]



Standards:

	SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws

	SS.912.A.7.5 Social activism

































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 436 (Newtown Oral History Project) Interviewee: Jetson Grimes

Interviewer: Vickie Oldham Date: September 4, 2015



	O:	It is September 4th. What is your name?



	G:	My name? Jetson Grimes, J-E-T-S-O-N, Grimes, G-R-I-M-E-S.



	O:	Jetson tell me about your family. How did you end up in Sarasota?



	G:	Well I was born here. My mother came from a little place in Georgia, North Georgia called White Plains, Georgia and she came down. She had an aunt here. So she came down to stay with her aunt. I think everybody wanted to get out of White Plains, Georgia during that time of the [19]40s, early [19]40s.

	O:	Why did they want to leave?



	G:	Well it was just a one-horse town. And there wasn’t any opportunity and there were opportunities—my aunt she worked for a couple of wealthy people here in Sarasota and she encouraged my mother to come down. And she was able to change work here in Sarasota and she met Eddie Porter and that’s how I became a resident or a native of Sarasota.

	O:	She married him?



	G:	No they were never married. In fact, I’ve seen my father one time but I think I was probably twelve, thirteen years old.

	O:	Was he African American?



	G:	Yeah he was African American.



	O:	Do you remember some of the families that your aunt worked for?



	G:	Well I remember them but now if I had to call them by name—because as I grew with my aunt, I lived with her after eleven years old. So I was able to work with her when she went to work for a lot of the families. In fact, my aunt was one of





my inspirations for what I do now. She was truly an entrepreneur. By working for a lot of the families here in Sarasota, she was able to start her own business.

She started a cleaning business as she cleaned eight or nine businesses downtown during that period.

	O:	Really?



	G:	Yes, uh-huh, and she was truly an entrepreneur. She had a staff of people that worked for her and I was one of the ones that worked. I was working with her when I was twelve, thirteen years old. So that’s always was something in my history I was able to see African Americans working for themselves. And it just kinda carried over to where I’m at now.

	O:	Right. Who were some of the businesses or buildings? Do you remember? Do they still stand today?

	G:	You talking about the businesses that she cleaned? O:	Yes.

	G:	Most of them are gone but I remember the Van Sky Building, that was a famous building. I remember the Terrace Hote. I think the Terrace Hotel is still there. She cleaned the Terrace Hotel. She had a couple of insurance offices that she cleaned. She had a couple of restaurants during that period that she cleaned and most of them are occupied by other businesses out there. They don’t exist anymore but that was during the early [19]50s when she had a business for cleaning the office complexes downtown.

	O:	I understand your mom was a mid-wife. G:	No, that was my godmother.





	O:	Oh okay.



	G:	Yeah my godmother was a mid-wife and my godmother raised me until I was eleven years old. In fact, the history of my mother, my mother contracted Tuberculosis when I was one years old and during that period, they didn’t have a cure for it. So she had to go off to a sanitarium isolated from the public sphere.

And the mid-wife that delivered me was Madam Brooks. Her name was Wenora Brooks. I was one years old so I was in her care until I was eleven years old. So she raised me from a one-year-old to eleven years old and then I moved in with my aunt. But that was another entrepreneur. She had her own. At that time mid- wives was the equivalent to a doctor in the African American community because during that period, we didn’t have the ability to go to—especially being a deliver—kids didn’t have the ability to go to the Memorial Hospital or the White Hospital at that particular time. So the people in the community, if they had to deliver their kids, then they had to come to Ms. Madam Brooks. So Ms. Madam Brooks was kind of the mid-wife and she was kind of the privileged individual in the community because she was a service that was necessary if the people in the community had to get their babies delivered.

	O:	How did she learn how to be a mid-wife?



	G:	That’s a good question. I don’t know if she had a book or any kind of trainer or anything. She was a Cuban, she was Cuban. And obviously before she came to this country she found that in Cuba. She was a Black Cuban. And she grew up in the community when she came to Sarasota. And her husband was—both of them being from Cuba—he made cigars and he had a business right in the same





complex where she was, the same house where she was and that like on Thirty- fifth Street. And Vickie I know you know about Thirty-fifth Street because your family came out of that area. And that’s where I really a strong incentive for entrepreneurship in our community and in my rearing.

	O:	All right so when you moved from her house, you went to your aunt. You said it was from prosperity to poverty. Why did you say that?

	G:	Well right. As I was saying prior to our conversation that the mid-wife really lived very, very well. We had indoor bathrooms; we didn’t have T.V.s at that time, but we had radios and I can remember people in the community, when they had— when Joe Lewis had a big fight of that era, all of the people in the neighborhood would come to Madam Brooks house. Come to our house because other individuals in the neighborhood didn’t have radios at that time. And just like I say, we had indoor bathrooms. It was a very few people during that period had indoor bathrooms. She had four or five bedrooms, she area for deliveries and we lived really good. And when I went to live with my aunt, I moved from that environment to an environment of being the Quarters, it was called “Hip Quarters.”

	O:	Hip?



	G:	Hip Quarters yeah and Hip Quarters were I went back to the outdoor bathrooms.



I went back to one bedroom, tin roofs leaking and stuff. Living from more privileged environment to more of a—

	O:	Rural.



	G:	Rural environment yes. O:	Where was that house?





	G:	Her house, it was on Thirty-fifth Street at that particular time. I talk about Thirty- fifth Street because Thirty-fifth Street was the street where it was paved. And it was paved because all of the streets where the bus came, those are the streets that were paved in our community. And the streets where the bus didn’t come, they were dirt roads and wasn’t paved. So I moved from the paved street to the dirt road street and that was a tremendous impact on my life, I think, because there was just a tremendous difference in my upbringing.

	O:	What did it persuade you to do? I mean what was the message in that, do you think?

	G:	Well [Laughter] the message was that you can go from success to non-success in a matter of, just a bat of the eye. It was very difficult but it was something that I had to adjust to because I didn’t have any choice in the matter. What I fairly adjusted to was I was able to go on into finish high school and go to go off to school. But I learned a lot from my aunt as I was saying. She was a person that done a lot, had her own dentist in the community and those were very, very strong examples to me. So I came from the privileged kid with the mid-wife but she was an entrepreneur too and my aunt was an entrepreneur, which always gave me the feeling that I wanted to work for myself. So I had those strong images. Now my aunt was a very good person. She was very nurturing that time but she did have some issues with alcoholism but these are some of the things that I was able to adjust to and overcome.

	O:	Where did you go to school?





G:  I finished with Booker in my high school. I went to Florida Barber College and I went to Florida Business College in Jacksonville, Florida. So that’s where I got my degrees at.

O:   And you decided to come back to Sarasota, why?



	G:	I always just loved this community. I always had a passion for the community and I always felt that there was a tremendous amount of opportunities here. And I think what really drawn me back, what really drawn me into doing hair was I was getting my hair cut one day—it was kinda like for maybe about six or seven months I was trying to figure out what I wanted to do. I had a musical scholarship to Gibbs Junior College but during that period you didn’t have a lot of opportunity for African American males, or even females. You either had to be a teacher or you had to be a doctor or something like that. You didn’t have any opportunities to go into a lot of other fields like the kids have today. So I know my ambition wasn’t being a teacher. So I wanted to do something that was a little more independent of being in the classroom. So that’s how I decided to become a barber but to go back a little bit. I was able to go to one of the shops. In fact, Rob Thomas, Robert Boyd Thomas, one of my classmates, he had already went to school and came back. I remember asking him how much money he made a week. And he told me, “I made fifty dollars.” So I thought that was a lot of money ‘cause I had a job making thirty-five dollars a week. So that’s what really kinda motivated me to say, “Okay maybe this is what I really like to do.” So that’s what in the direction I went to barber school. And I came back and I worked for Timmon’s Barbershop right across the street there for three years. And then I





moved down to Bud and I stayed there for sixteen years. And after that I opened my own business and I’ve been here thirty-seven years now.

	O:	Wow. You learned a lot from Mr. Thomas. He was a community leader.



	G:	Yeah he was a community leader but he was an activist. I think that’s what was my attraction to him. He was a person who always stood up for himself and he fought for the community. And I think that’s where I got a lot of my activism from, from him because he was a person that was always doing things for the community. But he was a person that really stood up. He didn’t let people push him around. I remember a lot of times, people from outside the community come in and tried to kind of push him around. Because in the community, they felt like they were in a position where they had to respond to forces outside of the community but Bud has always stood up to that. And I always talk about Bud, he was the one that forced the integration of the Bobby Jones Golf Course and I can remember during that period, he was the one that fought for—when it started out with the Golf Course, the little caddies, they had the Caddie Club and the Caddie Club at four o’clock the caddies could go out and play. And if they had friends, they could bring their friends to play. And Bud, he never was a caddie, but loved to play golf. So he would play going in the afternoon, after work and play golf and after a while he said, “Well hey. If I can go out there at four o’clock, we can go out there at eight o’clock or nine o’clock in the daytime.” So he formed a group and they went out and got on the tee and teed off and Greg Hermage, I think that was the City Manager at that time. They had a big commotion that they had these Black people out there on the golf course. And in fact, as I was told that he





didn’t get any kind of repercussion that people got there. They was just like, “Okay we just got some Black people out there.” But the city was up in arms. I think they wasn’t ready for integration but they call them in. They finished eighteen holes and they called them in but Bud said, “We gonna go back out here the next day.” We gonna continue to play. So I think Sarasota didn’t want any kind of controversy because it was a tourist town. You know they didn’t need that kind of publicity. So it was resolved. And he just said, “As long as you don’t have no trouble you can play.” So that’s how the golf course was integrated and the beautiful part, people from all over the state would come down to play at Bobby Jones because it was the only public course at that particular time, that was integrated. So I got a chance to see a lot of the athletes, professional football players, a lot of them played at Bobby Jones and that’s why they continue to have the celebration, the Martin Luther King Celebration, in honor of Robert “Bud” Thomas at Bobby Jones Golf Course. To recognize what he had done for people in the community for integrating the golf course.

	O:	I’ve heard that story over and over again. It took one person or a group of people to just kind break through and how they did it was just started and had to be courageous and just do it.

G:  Yeah and that’s what happened with most—even with the beaches. I talk about the integration of beaches. And I think that’s why Sarasota has been so special, the people here in this community has just never let themselves be in a position where they was told that they couldn’t do something. They say, “Well we gonna do it.” But even the resistance was different than they had in a lot of other areas





because they had an image—and that’s why I always talk about image. Sarasota had an image to protect. So they would be a certain amount of resistance but after one or two times, they were like, “Okay it’s gonna be in the press. These rich people not gonna come to Sarasota. So we gonna let these little Black people go on and do what they want to do.” So we didn’t have a lot of resistance. Even when the integration—because I was a part of the integration of the theater, Florida Theater.

	O:	How did you all do that?



	G:	Yeah we just went down and stood up in the line and said, “Okay you gonna serve us.” And we kept going down, the line kept getting bigger and after a while, you start a little attention coming to the people just standing in line. And at the time you could go to the Florida Theater, but you had to sit up in the balcony. But you know we say, “We not sitting in the balcony no more. We sat where everybody else sat.” So after a couple times we sat down where everybody else would sit, they just kinda say, “Let it happen.” And we just walked away from it.

And that’s how a lot of things changed here in this community. The same thing about the busses, start sitting up in the front of the busses. I always tell a story when I was in school and that was in the early [19]60s and I was on the Trailway bus and that’s the bus that came from Sarasota to Jacksonville and my friend and I Wade Harvin, my friend and I, we were sitting down at the bus on the second seat and the driver came and say, “You guys—you boys.” He didn’t say guys, I tell that story. He said, “You boys got to move to the back.” So we said, “No we not about to move to the back.” He said, “You don’t move to the back, I’m





gonna get my manager and make you move to the back.” So he went to get his manager and the manager came and he asked us too and we still sitting. “We not gonna move any further.” So when we didn’t move, the bus driver said well they don’t move, I’m not driving this bus. And the manager asked us again to move, so we said we’re not moving. So this driver said, “Well I told ya I’m not driving this bus if the N people done move in the back.” And he just left the bus. He left the bus there with no driver. So it was kinda strong for some people, the resistance of African Americans during that period but it was kinda funny because the new driver he got, he had never drove that route. So we had to show him out to come from Jacksonville and all the stops he made from Jacksonville to Gainesville and Ocala. We had to show him all the stops, he didn’t know how to do it. So at the end, when he got through, the little driver had to thank us for helping with his route.

	O:	So they actually went and got a new driver?



	G:	They had to get a new driver, the bus just sit there. They didn’t even know where they was gonna get a driver from but they ended up finding somebody to drive the bus. They found somebody that never drove the bus, not that route before.

But yeah, he just left the bus and said, “Not I’m not gonna drive it. I’m not gonna drive the people that sit up there.” So these were some of the things that we had to address. But Sarasota was kinda different. You know it was really different and I think that’s the reason why we still exist in this community. Because issues that concern us and concern the protection of our community, we was willing to fight for. We really were. You know how we talk about the school issue, how we





fought to keep the school here in this community because when they came here, the superintendent in all of the schools in the state of Florida, when they went to integration, or desegregation—I guess that’s what they call it from that period.

You know you had to conform to what they wanted to do. When they talk about segregation, it was segregation on their terms. They didn’t want to keep the schools in the neighborhood. They want to phase the schools out of the neighborhood and you integrate into the schools outside the neighborhood. So we’d say, “Well we’re not gonna take our school and shut it down.” Because a lot of the schools, they shut them down. If you go to Bradenton, I mean you go to Tampa, Milton, all of them, those schools at that particular time was high schools and they were Black schools. They just phased them right now. So we say if you talking about phasing out our school, we’re just gonna boycott. We gonna boycott the school board. And they shut it down for maybe about a year and when they tried to open the schools, get us to go to the other schools, they boycotted the school. They said, “We want to keep out kids out of school.” So they had something like about 95% participation didn’t send their kids to school for two weeks. So after two weeks, they said, “Well can’t lose this. We getting too much attention on this here.”

	O:	And was losing money.



	G:	And they were losing money yeah. They was losing money. So they reopened the schools and we one of the few schools, I think we out of seven schools in the state of Florida that still retain the name and still in our community, plus we still— they tried to take the school colors too. That came up probably, maybe about ten





years after that and that was another fight where you not gonna take out school. They tried to give us red and white or something. I guess they want to give us some colors that are Republican, some red and white colors. You aint taking our flag okay.

[Laughter]



	G:	Maybe they went with another color, we might have gave in. But the red and white we said, “No we not going with the red and white.” So that was a little struggle, that was a little fight but we retained the colors and it’s amazing you know I spoke at the school probably about a year ago and one of the nicest plants we have in Sarasota, it’s beautiful, sixty-million-dollar plant. And just to see the harmony and the integration of the school without any problem. And It’s just amazing because I live about four blocks from the school and to see the little White kids and the Black kids walking to school or coming from school or playing hooky in the neighborhood [Laughter]. Without any problem, it’s kinda rewarding over this fear that something is going to happen to you, you being in our community is kinda like, with these young kids is just gonna throw it out the window.

	O:	What did y’all do for fun in the community, Newtown?



	G:	Well you know when I was kid, being a male you more were adventurous. I know we talk about the integration of the beaches, but I learned how to swim at a place where the train came and we used to call it “The Tank.” Where at that particular time the train would have to come and fill up with water because they use coal and steam and stuff like that. And that’s where they deposit a lot of water. And





where the train came, it was the Seaboard Coast Line, it was right behind the graveyard. And what we would do in the afternoon, the kids, we would go and the water was warm you can even swim there because the water would stay warm.

And it was just like we was lucky. You almost had to learn how to swim because you was gonna get drowned because it was kinda like a drop off. But that’s where I learned how to swim but I can remember just enjoying. I didn’t see I was a poor kid because we used to go in the pastures and ride the horses I mean you know. I used to go out and pick blackberries. We had blueberries we used to pick. So the neighborhood was kinda special. It wasn’t that we were deprived of a lot because everybody was poor. So you didn’t really see an image of you know—you saw people on the other side of town that looked kinda different but in your neighborhood everybody was kinda like equality of just being where you were and how you were there at that particular time.

	O:	Well there have been many significant events that changed the community from a tight-knit community to something else. You want to talk about the changes?

	G:	Yeah if let me cut and let me get him a shampoo [Cutting hair in the background]. O:	Okay.

	G:	That’s the disadvantage of cutting somebody’s hair when they trying to get home and eat but he all right, my little buddy.

	O:	He’s all right so go ahead and start the answer. Changes, can you? G:	Oh yeah, you talking about some of the changes?

	O:	Uh-huh. That changed the community from tight-knit, self-sufficient businesses, closeness, people watching out for each other.





	G:	Well you know you almost had to be tight-knit because we were segregated so people had to depend on each other. It wasn’t no big situation why the community had changed. When the community went through integration, a lot of people had the ability to live other places in the community. So you lost a lot of the closeness in your community. You know people moved out and living in different parts of area. And then people would leave. There as a lack of opportunity. A lot of people when they finished high school, they would go on to other cities and other avenues. So you lose a lot of the closeness. I think that’s what really happened. And I think even now, we do still have some closeness in the community. You know ‘cause I have friends that we’ve been friends since childhood. A lot of them stayed so we still have that. But the community, just evolution, it’s just the evolution of how things change with time. And I think that’s what has happened to a lot of our community, the community. But I always talk, we are fortunate from the perspective that we still have a community. So many communities of color don’t exist anymore. Rarely you can go anywhere in the state of Florida where you see a community of color is still a community of color. They’re not there anymore. You know I can remember Tampa, Central Avenue. I can remember Bradenton; Ninth Avenue is MLK now. I can remember Jacksonville, where I went to school where they had Ashley and Beaver and Broad. They don’t even exist, they just got a plaque just like Overtown; that’s all they got there. But Sarasota, Newtown, it’s still alive, so if it’s still alive, there may be some resuscitation that can happen to this community.

	O:	Can it be like it was fifty years ago?





	G:	I don’t think it ever will be. That’s just a wild dream. [Moving around the barbershop]

	O:	I was just about to get one more question in Jet. G:	Okay.

	O:	Can I get that one more question in? G:	Can I get one more question in? Okay.

	O:	One more question in yeah. Just stand behind the chair.



	G:	Come on Chip stand behind the chair [Laughter]. You can’t just leave it’s gonna be out of sync.

	O:	Can it be what it was fifty years ago, if not what can it be as we move into the future?

	G:	Well I think mentally from a city perspective and a community perspective, it can’t continue to be a Black enclave off to itself. It needs to be incorporated within the city perspective. And that’s the only way it gonna—We can’t be looked at as something different. We need to be inclusive with the rest of Sarasota. We’re unique, but we need to be inclusive. And I always talk about how polarized this community. You’d have to break down that polarization of this community and I think once we can do that you gonna see—Because it’s just like being contained in a environment when you not getting any air. If we don’t have the ability to open this environment up where we can get the resources and get the air that the rest of Sarasota gets, we gonna continue to slowly—

	O:	Fade away.





	G:	Fade away. That’s whats gonna happen. And I think those are the issues that we need to work hard to start changing. And mentally we have to start changing ourselves. We got to say, “Okay if we gonna participate in this city, we got to be able to participate throughout the city.” And people that’s living outside the community, we need to have the ability to have entities in this community so they can have ability to come in this community and spend money. Because if the money not circulating in the community, whether it’s through the jobs, whether it’s through businesses, the community is going to die.

	O:	So you’re talking about a niche, developing a niche.



	G:	You got to develop a niche. Yeah there needs to be a niche and that’s been the kind of magic thing that we’re working hard to find and professionals like this gentleman here. He does a lot of PR work; he does a lot of computer stuff. We need to bring some of that talent back in the community and if not to stay in here but to be able to work in here, to be able to utilize their talent to enhance the community and I think once we can do that, we gonna see our thing change. But we have the community still intact and we still have the opportunity to live to create that kind of environment.

	O:	Thank you Jet.



	G:	Okay. [End of Interview]





	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 5, 2020