AAHP 230; Fair; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 230 Johnny Fair

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Xavier Suarez on December 1, 2011

42 minutes | 29 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Mr. Johnny Fair discusses his life growing up in Statesboro, Georgia during the presidency of Herbert Hoover with his daughter, Mrs. Jenkins, also present for the interview. His father was a sharecropper who grew corn, peanuts, cotton, and chufas. He moved to Gainesville when he was eighteen in 1943 and worked in a crate mill. Mr. Fair travelled up the east coast for work to gather crops during harvesting season, helped build and remodel many of the large buildings in downtown Gainesville, worked on constructing the railroad, and worked for the city picking up garbage.





Keywords: [African American History; Bolloch County, Georgia; Alachua County, Florida; Sharecropping; Labor]

















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 230

Interviewee: Johnny Fair Interviewer: Xavier Suarez Date: December 1, 2011



	S:	All right. So Mr. Johnny, thank you for agreeing to this interview. Just to start off can you tell me about where you were born and how it was like to grow up in that area?

	F:	Where I was born at? S:	Uh-huh.

	F:	I was born in Statesboro, Georgia.



	S:	In Georgia? Okay. And how was it at that time where you were born? How was it growing up then?

	F:	Well, better along then that was in Hoover days. S:	In Hoover Dale?

	F:	Hoover days



	S:	Hooverday.



	F:	When I was born, yeah. J:	Hoover was the President

	S:	Okay, Hoover. Okay, thank you. F:	Yeah, when I was born.

	S:	How was it in the area? How was your experiences? Did you have any siblings or anything like that?

	F:	Well it was one thing. Back in Hoover’s days. If time was like it is, it ain’t like it was. The world would’ve been in a better shape than it is now. ‘Cause everybody was together. ‘Cause see, Hoover, people or everybody were around catching rabbit. Anything they could eat. Sleeping in other people’s—well, I’d sleep in my





daddy’s house. All on the floor. And they was eating whatever they could catch; a rabbit, a possum, coons, anything, gophers, turtles and all of that. See people didn’t have no money like they got along now. People workin’ for… When I got older now, people were working for 50 cent a whole day. Go from sun up to sun down. And we were glad to get that…but my daddy, see my daddy had his own farm. Yeah. He planted corn, peanuts, chufas. That’s something none of y’all don’t know nothing about. Chufas.

	S:	No clue. What is that?



	F:	That was some good eatin’ too. And all day long in there. See, my daddy had his own corn, cotton, all like that. But all of them was sharecropping. Back then, uh…I say myself. Now that was Christmas coming in there. ‘Cause no one know when Jesus was born. See you take December…it’s dark. Now I’m the one saying this. December, was the last Monday in the year. And see that when they go make this settlement in there. Labor was going to wait. Going to start all over you know? Working again. And see, they carry them off of the whole year and when they go to make these settlements, see, that’s when you gon’ tell them how much, you gon’ pay them out of what—or rather he come out debt or not.

Because he came the whole year. Sometime in the summer you might get a dollar or two or something like that. Then work the whole year and that’s all they get. See, and that’s when they come in for Christmas and Jesus’ birthday and that’s me saying that. Now ain’t nobody told me that.

	J:	How many sisters and brothers did you have? F:	Huh?





	J:	How many sisters and brothers did you have? F:	I didn’t have any, my momma have them.

	J:	So how many of you all were there?



	F:	Oh, how many was there? Oh now you say. There were nine. S:	Nine?

	F:	Yeah.



	S:	Okay, and you had how many brothers and how many sisters? F:	I just told you that I had none of them.

	S:	Oh okay. [Laughter]



	F:	My momma had ‘em. [Laughter]



	S:	[Laughing continued] How many did you mom have? F:	I told you. Nine.

	S:	Nine. Okay and did you grow up with them or did— F:	No, I didn’t grow up with them.

	S:	Okay. You said earlier—



	F:	Most of—you see my momma died when I was a baby. And, that’s why I look back at this young race of people coming up now. Getting in jail and all of that kind of stuff, and you can search my record anywhere you go. You can’t find well… I ain’t take a straight pin from nobody. Always, see I had always love in me. I would give, give you, but you can’t ever find that I took anything. But one thing I didn’t do…I didn’t let anyone push me around.

	S:	Rightly so.





	F:	See I come up without a mother and I had uh a daddy now. And he was a good provider. He like he had…he didn’t care what color you was. If you worked there for him, he always paid a quarter more than anybody else. And always give them a meal. One meal a day.

	S:	You said that there were, African-Americans and Whites living together. F:	Huh?

	S:	That you said African Americans and Whites were living together?



	F:	I ain’t never seen an African American—. God. I don’t know where they got that term, “African American.” I was born and raised right here in—well not here, but I was born in Georgia. And I don’t know nothing about Africa. I’m just an America man. But, African- American and all that kind of—we done been something, everything you can call you. We done been a nigger, Negro, son of a bitches, and everything else. But, I am what I am what I am. We all is a human race.

That’s the way I look at it. We all is a human race.



	S:	I agree with that definitely.



	F:	Nobody ain’t no better than no one. And all of us ain’t but a lump of dirt. Don’t care what color we is or what we is. We ain’t nothing but a lump of dirt. ‘Cause we going back to the dirt. We come from the dirt and we going back to the dirt. And see you talking with somebody now, I don’t care no more about one person I do than the other. I love everybody. I was born that way. And I’m concerned about everybody. That’s the way it is for me. See I is concerned about everybody. I love everybody and concerned about everybody. If I can’t help you I





ain’t going to do you no harm. Been that way all of my life. It’s going to be like that until the day I die, Lord willing. The Lord just take care of me.

	S:	That’s very honorable actually. And I respect that. When did you move to Gainesville?

	F:	I came down here in 19—let me see. Let me see what year. I can say that— yeah, yeah, I came down here in [19]43.

	S:	1943?



	F:	Uh-huh.



	S:	Okay. And how was moving here compared to Georgia? F:	Huh?

	S:	How was it here compared to Georgia, in Gainesville?



	F:	Well, it was no different. They was still hanging them, killing them, doing ‘em— doing the same in places there were doing in the other—as far as I know of. But I got along good everywhere I went. I got along good with ‘em. The White, I got along with the Black. I had no trouble out of none of ‘em too far. But I ain’t never get nowhere where they pushed me.

	S:	That’s perfectly fine.



	F:	Never been in jail but for one thing—two thing. That was fighting, and getting drunk. But they would put you in jail because you was Black. If you had just had some liquor or just tasted they could smell it. And you had to say you was drunk. Then they’d keep your behind in jail for so many days.

	S:	So you’re saying that if, if you were Black that, even if you had a sip of alcohol they would take you to jail?





	F:	You didn’t have to have it. They could just smell it on you. You got to be drunk. You got to say you were drunk. If you don’t you’d be calling Mr. So and So a liar. And people had to say, “Yeah sir, I was drunk.” “Was you guilty or not guilty?” “Yeah sir, I was guilty.” And you could be in trouble with just a little sip.

	S:	Would you say that Blacks in the community would avoid Whites because of that or?

	F:	Huh?



	S:	Would you say that Blacks avoided Whites because of that treatment, or do you think it was impossible to avoid Whites because of the Gainesville community being so close to each other?

	F:	Because you were Black? S:	Uh-huh

	F:	Yeah that’s why they did it,’cause you were Black. S:	Okay

	F:	Call you a nigger. You be whatever they call you, you better be that. [Laughter] Put a limb on your butt I reckon. But I didn’t run into that part. I have heard it spoke… because you’ve seen it on TV yourself. They always treated me good. They always wanted me but they didn’t get me. Work with them, stay with them.

	S:	And stay with them you mean?



	F:	I had to spend the night with the White children. When I was coming up I spent the night with them. I spent weeks with them. We got along good. We even went swimming up there together. But you wouldn’t went swim here together, though. And I guess up there, if the older people knew that. But us children, you see, we





out there in the country. We did what we wanted to do. While they somewhere, we somewhere. But they didn’t ever, the old people didn’t ever know it. Nothing but the young. We went swimming. We got along good.

S:  When you came to Gainesville, did you work in anything specifically? F:  Huh?

	S:	What was your occupation in Gainesville?



	F:	When I first came here I started working for a box, crate mill. S:	A crate mill?

F:   Huh?



	S:	A what mill? I apologize.



	F:	Crate mill, where they were making boxes. S:	Okay.

	F:	The one, the crate mill what we were working then. That’s the one over there in Micanopy. See they bought—the man bought this man out here in Gainesville and then moved it over to Micanopy, that’s where it’s at now. Yeah.

	S:	How were your experiences working in that crate factory? F:	Huh?

	S:	How were your experiences working in that crate factory? F:	You mean how was it?

	S:	Yes, sir.



	F:	Well it was all right with me. S:	You liked it?

	F:	Yeah I liked it. I always liked to work.





	S:	When you worked at the crate factory were there other Blacks and other Whites working with you?

	F:	There Blacks, Whites, all of them working there



	S:	Okay, so it was integrated, it was separated or anything.



F:  No. As long as you were working you can work. But you better, when you left there the White person went his way and you were to go your way. That’s the way that went.

S:  Would you say it was equal then when you worked? It wasn’t as if they were treating differently, they were treating in any other way than you should have been treated like?

	F:	Huh?



	S:	When you worked together there, Whites and Blacks, there wasn’t any negative treatment by Whites, right? While you worked?

	F:	Well that was all the way everywhere. In the southern. Blacks had to work in they would get one price and the White get another price. You didn’t, you was no equal with them.

	S:	So it was never equal, an equal—



	F:	No. [inaudible 14:39] And I didn’t want. Tell it like it is. I got along good just like it was. I did.

	S:	Not others.



F:  Because I always went my way and they went their way. And that’s the way I loved it.

	S:	Were there others that didn’t have the same experience as you?





	F:	I had nothing to do with other folks. Just like I is now. J:	Did George ever work there?

	F:	My step brother?



	J:	Your brother George



	F:	I don’t know what George and them worked at. George and them worked in one place and I worked in a different.

	J:	Oh okay.



	F:	We weren’t together. Always worked there by myself. I meant out of the family. I don’t ever remember me working with my brother. Yes, I working on they job helping them. Cause when I wasn’t working for them, I was working for them.

	S:	So when you moved to Gainesville, were you by yourself or were you with family?

	F:	Me and my daddy. S:	You and your dad.

	F:	Me and my daddy. Believe my daddy brought me here. S:	And how was living with your dad?

	F:	Huh?



	S:	How was living with your dad? F:	How was I living with him?

	S:	How was it? Your experiences living your father. F:	How you mean?

	S:	Were you able to adjust to living in Gainesville with your father and not with your siblings? Does that make sense?





	F:	Well my daddy, we came here. I was here one half a day. Next day I went to work. But my daddy, he ain’t never work. I ain’t never done heard him work for a White man.

	S:	So he never ended up working for a White man?



	F:	I ain’t never known him to work. He always had his own job, he let us children went and work.

	S:	Did he, did he ever interact with White people or no? F:	Huh?

	S:	Did he interact often with White people or no? Your father. F:	Did I ask him?

	S:	No did your father, did you talk to him?



	F:	Him and them got along good. All of them called him Uncle Major S:	Uncle who?

	F:	Major. That was his name, Major Fair.



	S:	Very cool. [Mrs. Jenkins’ phone rings] Living in Gainesville, how old were you when you moved here?

	F:	I came down here around, when I was in between 18 to 19 year old.



	S:	Eighteen, nineteen years old. Were you coming out of school, did you have schooling?

	F:	I ain’t never went to school all in my life.



	S:	Okay. Were you the oldest of your siblings or youngest?



	F:	I was the baby, I done told you a while ago. My mother died when I was a baby.



At least I was—I might have been two years old.





	S:	I’m sorry about that.



	F:	But that’s why I said, I look at all these young folks coming nowadays and have no mother. And lot of them went home, lot of them on a chain gang, lot of them doing this. Another thing what they did do. When they—that’s another reason a lot of people getting killed and on the chain gang today. [Coughs] Excuse me. This here child abuse just started. Instead of letting the people raise they children up, they were mostly putting away the children; they want the children to raise their momma and daddy. But had they come up like I come up, there would have been none of all this killing and all this shim what going on today. ‘Cause they ain’t even taught to love one another. Right today I got nieces, nephews, right here in Gainesville. I got sick ain’t anyone of them come see me. But if they were raised right they will do right. If you raised wrong you’ll do wrong and that’s the way that is. See that’s the same way that is by if you live right you die right. You live wrong you gon’ die wrong. So, that’s the whole nutshell. Except for like a lot of people say “I’m a Christian and I’m this and I’m that”. Maybe they is, but I always been just what I am. Jesus didn’t came down here to save the righteous. He came down here for the sinners to repent. And that’s what I is; repented sinner. See what I mean? ‘Cause we all fall short of the glory of God in the run of the day. That’s why I say, “if you live right you die right. Live wrong you gon’ die wrong.” And so you know if live wrong you’re going to hell. Live right say you’ll be caught up. So, I put it that way.





	S:	Part of what my dad taught me by living right, my dad is a pastor, was to go to church. Did you have that experience here in Gainesville? Of going to church here in Gainesville?

	F:	Well what they call a church. But the church is in you. That’s the just a building you going to. See that building going to be burned out. Well it either gonna be tore down. But the church gon’ stand. You understand what I’m saying?

	S:	Inside [pointing to self].



	F:	He said, up on this rock, I build my church and the gates of hell shall not be able to get us. See what I mean? That’s why I said, if you live right you die right, live wrong you gon’ die wrong. See where I’m coming?

	S:	When you moved to Gainesville, it was 1943 you said, and around that time it was the, World War II I believe. Correct?

	F:	Yeah.



	S:	Did you see anything change around that period? Within the Black community? F:	You mean from now? From now from the time then?

	S:	Or just back then. Back in 1943. Was there a difference? Were Blacks enlisting in the army? Were there Whites enlisting in the Army? How was the sentiment in Gainesville back then?

	F:	Well all of them went to the Army, wherever, who was able to go to the Army.



Went to war. I didn’t ever go. No, I didn’t go to the war.



	S:	Did you know anyone personally who did or in Gainesville? F:	I had a brother who went.

	S:	Your brother went?





	F:	Yeah, George. My brother George, he went. But me, the Jane, we didn’t go. S:	Do you know if he was received well in the army or?

	F:	Huh?



S:  Do you know if he was received well in army? Were there any issues with him being Black going to the army?

F:  I don’t know what they did over there. If it was what other people done in their house, I don’t even know what they done in they houses. Only thing I know is what I did. That’s the only thing.

S:   Living in Gainesville, did you live by any Whites? Close by or no? F:   I live by some now. But back then I didn’t.

S:   So back then no?



	F:	No. Used to be nothing but Blacks lived in here. And you’d never see them Whites in here. Now this house what you see sitting right there, that house maybe be about 100 years old. Because that house was here when I came here. And it looked like a war house then. It didn’t have no paint on it. See I used to work for the city. I used to pick up garbage around this house.

	S:	And that was after, after 1943 correct? F:	Huh?

	S:	And that was after 1943 correct? F:	Yeah it had to be.

	S:	Because that’s when you moved here, correct. Okay. Going off of that you said that there was only Blacks living in this area.





	F:	I was the only one did live over here. And they better not been caught in no other area. No where they live, not where the White folk lived at.

	S:	Where would the White people live? F:	Hm?

	S:	Where would the White folks live?



	F:	Now, they could live anywhere they wanted to live. But we didn’t live anywhere we wanted to live. See they here could always live where they want.

	S:	But they would never come around here right? To live? F:	They never done what?

	S:	The White folk never came over here to live though correct? F:	They could come over here if they want to.

	S:	If they wanted to?



	F:	But we better not go into they part. S:	What would happen—

	F:	They could come anywhere, they could go anywhere they wanted to went. S:	What would happen if someone who were Black were to go over there to the

White area?



	F:	Might not never got out of there. They might have had it—they might have carried him, throw them into the river or anything along in there. There would nothing be done about it.

	S:	Now, you grew up in an era where it was, were there were Jim Crow laws in place.

	F:	In the southern was Jim Crow. Or whatever they call it.





	S:	Did you see any of that first hand here in Gainesville? The separation and segregation?

	F:	See what?



	S:	Segregation between Whites and Blacks; besides the area where you lived in. F:	You said did I see it?

	S:	Uh-huh. Did you see any examples of that. Of Jim Crow and the laws that were— F:	What you call Jim Crow?

	S:	Jim Crow, I’m sorry. Jim Crow is the laws set in place separating Whites and Blacks from schools, from public restrooms, facilities.

	F:	Well that was everywhere in the, what you call…in the southern state. Georgia, Florida, Alabama, and in any other ‘bama you wanted to call it. [Laughter] And it even been too long since they—been about fifty-some years they was in. Long as [inaudible 26:48] and some parts of the North, they were still that way. The worst here then it was there. There than it was here. In some places in New York. See I used to be a travelling little Black boy.

	S:	You used to travel?



	F:	Yeah I used to travel, Florida, all up in New York. All around Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina. Travel all through them. Around Miami. I used to pay off hand all down through there.

	S:	Now, as a traveling gentleman, you traveled through many different states. How was—

	F:	See I was a, I would travel on the season. S:	On the season?





	F:	I was paying off for the contract.



	S:	But you would travel by train or? Would you travel by train or?



	F:	No, you had trucks and cars and things like that. See we were gathering crops, like we taken—what they call by season.

	J:	They call it migrant. Migrant. S:	Migrant?

	J:	Migrant workers.



	S:	Oh so you were a migrant worker? F:	Huh?

	S:	So you were a migrant worker, per say. F:	What is he saying?

	J:	He’s saying you were—nowadays working on the season, they’ve given it a name now called migrant worker.

	F:	Oh that’s what they call it? J:	Yeah. You’re a migrant

	S:	Yeah, by season you travel in your job. F:	Oh yeah.

	S:	Okay. Alright so you were, you would bring crops and et cetera, right? F:	Yeah I used to, we’d be gathering crops.

S:  Okay. In your travels, was there any different experiences from Gainesville and interacting with Whites in Gainesville? Compared to interacting with Whites in a different state or was it the same would you say?





	F:	No, it had to be different. ‘Cause, when you went into a different state, they paid different, people treated you different. Wherever you went, but, everywhere I went I got along good.

	S:	And you never experienced, you don’t remember as far as you recall any experience were you were treated differently by Whites?

	F:	No, I ain’t never been anywhere where I’ve been treated different. S:	Okay.

	F:	I guess it was the way I carried myself.



	S:	And that’s great. Living in the south I’m assuming back then must have been more challenging only because of the separation and I guess the tension between Whites and Blacks. That’s why I was asking you whether there had been an experience you had experienced in relation to whether you had a good experience with Whites or not.

	F:	I don’t even know what you’re saying. S:	[Laughter] I’m sorry about that.

	J:	He’s saying, were there ever any times when there were altercations or something happened between the Blacks and the Whites that was not nice?

	F:	Well I wasn’t around then. I heard, I have been heard talk. See it like I tell you always been one man. I traveling alone, and was just like when I come off a job. I come to my house. I either go wherever I wanted to go, or whatever, and I think that’s how come I got along. See I ain’t ever be with a crew. I be by myself. Me and Jesus.

	S:	Did you have any other family living in Gainesville at the time? In 1943?





	F:	Yeah I had family and I still got family here. ‘Cause you seeing some of them here. [Laughter]

	S:	Did you keep close ties with them as you grew up in Gainesville? From 1943? F:	I didn’t grow up in Gainesville.

	S:	From 1943 and onward. When you moved to Gainesville, did you keep close ties with them or were you able to talk to them.

	F:	Talk to them?



	S:	As in like you know, invite them over and keep close family ties? F:	I told you my momma died when I was a baby.

	S:	But your other family members I mean, I’m sorry?



	F:	Well, when they be around me I talk with them. Treat them nice and they treated me nice. Just like it is now. [Laughter]

	S:	Can you tell me anything about how Gainesville was in 1943. And when I say how it was, how was—

	F:	You mean how the town, how the people houses was and whatever? S:	Yeah, sure in that sense.

	F:	Well they built on a lot of houses because the houses been built more better than what they was. Fixed up more better. Used to be to a lot of run-downed shacks. But they fixed them up better than what they used to be.

	S:	Would you see many, like the occupation of many people here. Would you see that they were workers in agricultural sector. Like farming, whatever maybe in crops.

	F:	[inaudible 32:55] I used to do a lot of that myself.





	S:	And a lot of people used to do that?



	F:	That what I was. I build the first tallest building in this town. And I helped remodel the one that was the tallest one. I’ll remodel it from the bottom to the top. That’s the City building right up there. And that first tallest building there would be, that was the late tower show business but they done changed the name of it now. I forgot what they said they call the name right now. That down there on [inaudible 33:33] and them two twin towers building right down on 13th street right across from the medical center. I helped build them, and washed the windows from the bottom to the top. And that they this chimney over here towards the top. I was the only one they could get to go up to the top. I help build it. I ain’t never been scared of heights. Fact, I ain’t never been scared of the red-head devil. [Laughter] I come up. Jesus brought me through.

	S:	What company was that with? That you worked with? F:	The last one I worked for?

	S:	Uh-huh. The construction of buildings that you were just talking about. F:	Oh I can name them. I worked for Honor Riker Construction, Pear

Construction and Cripple Construction. I worked for quite a few in Gainesville. That’s what I named them.

	S:	And they would employ, or recruit, both Blacks and Whites alike?



	F:	Yeah. I don’t know about treating them alike. But all of us worked together. And that’s all I knew. I know we worked together and whatever. What I was doing? I was doing my part; most of the people done they part. See, I was cement finish. I don’t you know what that is.





	S:	No clue sir.



	F:	[Laughter] That’s like when they build a building. See, they take and put the cement down on the floor, and just like they build a wall, see if there be any holes in there I patch some wall so that you know…with mud and stuff. I wouldn’t call myself the best but I done some work, they followed for about 30 years trying to find out how I made my mud. But, I ain’t never let them know from the day they laid me off. I let my mud secret—nobody know but me and God.

	S:	You said they laid you off of your job. Was that for any reason in particular or was it like just because you were moving on?

	F:	Well they said we didn’t have no work to do. But that seemed mighty funny. They laid us off but they were working right on. So, why? I don’t know. But I can tell you who do know. God knows. But my boss man I was working for…I believe he’d been living I’d been working there now.

	S:	And you were talking about earlier—



	F:	He was about one of the best. One of the best men I ever worked with. Charles Perry. But he died overseas. Had a heart attack just like I had. But he didn’t make it.

	S:	And he worked in building too? Charles Perry? He worked in construction? F:	Yeah, that’s what I said. He was the one; I worked for him for about 50 years. S:	And he was a friend of yours?

	F:	He was a good friend. And he was a good man. And he couldn’t have been no better man when he died. He was a real good man.





	S:	Can you tell me a little bit more about your friendship? How you guys met in construction possibly?

	F:	Who?



	S:	Charles Perry, your friend. F:	Yeah, he was.

	S:	How did you guys meet? How did both of you meet?



	F:	Oh how we met? On the job. Yeah, on the job. Me and him started working together as laborers. Yeah I told you, me and him worked together for about 50 something years.

	S:	That’s a good amount of time.



	F:	I was there longer than any superintendent there ever been. Yeah, me and him got along from the day we met until the day he died.

	S:	That’s good though, to have a friendship like that. Personally I have a couple of friends like that too that hopefully I’ll hold on to them. But you were talking a little bit earlier about you working with crops, you working with construction. Did you have any other jobs? From your time here in Gainesville and onward?

	F:	I worked on the railroad. S:	And how was that?

	F:	Then I worked for the city.



	S:	How was working on the railroad? F:	Huh?

	S:	How was working on the railroad?





	F:	Putting down cross tires; lining tracks. Now you wouldn’t know nothing about that.

	S:	I’ve heard a lot about it. F:	[Laughter]

	S:	But not personally, no. F:	Yeah.

	S:	Would you say working there was really hard? Laying down the tracks?



	F:	Well if you used to doing something it don’t be hard. See I always was a man of the way. Nothing seem like it was hard to me. Rode just like when I was breaking horses. Now that wasn’t hard for me to do. I never had a horse that throw me, never had a mule that throw me when I was breaking that horse. I had lots to break in. Matter of fact I got on one of them but I never let one of them outdo me. I keep on ride him down.

	S:	Strong work ethic then, you had. So that’s good though.



	F:	That wasn’t no work, that was just things that I loved to do. My daddy had horses and mules. People I used to work for had horses and mules. And I ride anything hell and back. So long as I could get on it.

	S:	You also said you worked for the city? F:	Huh?

	S:	You also said you worked for the city? F:	That’s right.

	S:	And how was that? F:	Picking up garbage





	S:	Picking up garbage. Okay.



	F:	Yeah see back along then, we would go around back of the houses picking up garbage and tools. Now that’s about all I know now. I know one thing, I got to go hang up my clothes.

	J:	Say his full name at the end. It’s Johnny Fair.



	S:	Okay. Well Johnny Fair, thank you so much for your time— F:	You’re welcome.

	S:	I really honestly appreciate it—



	F:	Well then, I hope God keep on blessing you.



		S:		And likewise to you sir. I really do appreciate it though. F:	I hope God keep on blessing all of you.

[End of interview]





		Audit-edited by:		Juanita Duque, January 29, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 21, 2019