AAHP 354; Gainey; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 354 Daniel Gainey

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed on February 27, 2008

16 minutes | 9 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 354

Interviewee: Daniel Gainey Interviewer:

Date: February 27, 2008



	I:	Tell us a little about who you are.



	G:	Okay, my name is Gainey, Daniel Gainey, and I’m a resident of the Monteocha here in Gainesville. And I was born through Louise and Prince Gainey, and I’m the second oldest child. And having been trained from first to fifth grade, then we commuted by bus here to Alachua ACT. There we went to eleventh grade, from ACT was the first graduating class of A.L. Mebane in 1957.

	I:	Awesome. The first graduating class at A.L. Mebane. G:	Yes.

	I:	So tell me about your time in Mebane, and your experience with your teachers and in your classes?

	G:	It was exciting. And being transported from the rural area, it was very important to be timely. And that’s one of the things that has stuck with me throughout life, even now, is being on time. And there are two persons, or teachers may I say, who were very instrumental in helping mold me even further: that is Mr. Mebane, and Mr. Samuel J. McCathlin. And we had such a tight bond, especially Mr.

McCathlin, until a fellow classmate referred to me as “boss’ son.” [Laughter] Which of course, I mean, there’s not nothing done out of animosity, but such a tight bond. Because he’s so unpretentious. However, I did not have all of the knowledge then of what he really wanted out of me, so I only scaled the surface. But now that time has gone by, and I look back on those days, and I’m willing to say that he was ready to foot the bill for further schooling once having completed high school. But again, without those kind of things in place to verbally say, then





you sort of missed some of the opportunity, but I never will forget Mr. Samuel J.



McCathlin.



	I:	He’s one that had not been mentioned, which is good. Because through these interviews we’ve been getting to know, just through experiences, a lot of the teachers and the impact that they’ve had on you all when you were in high school or in younger, and in your elementary and middle school times.

	G:	Yes, and I say again, it was he who were in this very building, the agriculture department. And one of the basic things that he impressed upon me, simply because I grew up in a rural area and farming was the predominant thing for most of the Black people—well, not only Black, but both Black and White—but particularly in the community in which I was reared, for them to grow whatever they need to grow, for livelihood as well as sometimes selling on the market. And he took the time to make sure that I got the necessary training in that area, and we took a class, was listed under the NFA—that was for the Black students.

NFA, New Farmers of America, versus the White students, which was FFA, Future Farmers of America.

	I:	Really?



	G:	All the same, yes. All the same.



	I:	Tell me about just that experience in growing. You all had the agriculture area where you grew vegetables and things like that?

	G:	Yes, yes. In fact, here on campus, there were certain things, chemicals that was used to make sure that you get the best of your harvest. And those type of things was given to us as members of the NFA, to make sure when we go back to our





rural areas, if we choose to help Daddy and Momma, or we choose that as a profession for ourselves, we would have the necessary knowledge to make the best of whatever we needed to do.

	I:	Very interesting.



	G:	That’s been a part of our upbringing. And in those areas, you never will forget what folks have gone and contributed in your life. And that’s not to mention just one, but all of our teachers were pitching in. And I think earlier we heard Mr.

Moulton say something that the teacher got in your hand in writing? Well, I was never what I consider a good writer, but the little that I can do and did, those teachers helped develop the skills in handwriting, and that was a must for some of them.

	I:	Amazing. So, tell me your experiences from elementary up to high school. Did you attend the same school? Which schools did you attend?

	G:	My beginning of school, when I was at school age of six, was starting in the rural area school, which was Jerusalem Elementary School. And it went from first to fifth grade. Once you had completed the fifth grade, then you was transported by bus to ACT. And I do remember very vividly it was 1951 in which I came to ACT. That was my first year at ACT. And from [19]51 through eleventh grade, we attended ACT, as I said before, having come to A.L. Mebane, and we were the first graduating class of 1957. So, that is my experiences during that course of time.

	I:	Where was your elementary school?





	G:	Monteocha area is referred to, but most of the time, you call it Jerusalem. And the only reason it was named Jerusalem because there was two churches out there: Old Jerusalem Baptist Church, and New Jerusalem Baptist Church. And the schools was originally in those churches until they built a little country school, and it carried the name Jerusalem Elementary School.

	I:	Really?



	G:	Yes.



	I:	So in those areas, are there still people that owned the land then and still live in those areas?

	G:	Yes, there are those who own the land, many of them have passed away but their property went to their heirs, and however. In my knowledge of those persons, it has been kind of an up and down thing, in a sense of the word, because many of them granted their children permission to carry on, by will or whichever they did. But now going to that area, wherein when I grew up, there was only about three White families in the entire area; and having come back in this area in 2004, there’s people all over the place! [Laughter] And if you didn’t know that that was the place, you’ll be, “Am I in the right place?”

	I:	If you didn’t know that the community was still there.



G:  That’s right, it’s a lot of changes. Most of them probably didn’t change. And the folks seem to be comfortable in the area, because it’s quiet, there’s not a whole lot of activity. But like anywhere you go, you can’t avoid certain things there.

They’re there. But it’s just a matter of time when you find out that they are. But we have enjoyed the moments in having finished here at A.L. Mebane in [19]57.





Then we moved further south, and close to Miami, a place called Hallandale. And having done an extensive job of working and dealing with people, especially in the ministry, then Uncle Sam got a hold of me in 1961, and served a tour of duty. And after returning, we went back to Hallandale, and I was ordained as an elder of the Church of God by Faith in 1968. And I also became an associate disc teller during that period of time in 2004, and my name came up as a candidate to come back to this area, Alachua County. And it did three things for me by coming back. First of all, I came home. Secondly, I had the privilege of finishing a editus that had begun by the late Ella Moxie Welch. And thirdly, I’m away from the hustle and bustle of the [inaudible 8:40]. [Laughter]

	I:	So you come home, come for some—



	G:	Yes, I come home to do work for the Lord.



	I:	Thank you, Dr. Gainey. It was very important that you be a part of this documentary. You made history today.

	G:	Thank you very kindly, it was my pleasure being here, and may I say you’re doing a great job.

	I:	Oh, thank you! We’re done. [Recording resumes]

	G:	And two classrooms, two teachers. And sometimes, the class had—at the starting of the school, just about every child in the community was in school. But by the time farming season come in, it dropped.

	I:	Yeah, that’s been the experiences we’ve had. People had to go to work to help.





	G:	Children at your age learn how to do chores on the grown folk’ level. That wasn’t an option.

	I:	You were raised to work.



	G:	Absolutely, absolutely. And I know we’ll forget this one: one of the relatives had a nephew, and we had been in the field from early morning until about 11:30. And the child was doing grown folks’ chores. And he said “I’m tired, I want to go home.” And his uncle said, “You want to knock off early today, boy?” “Yes.” Now, mind you, he worked from early morning to about 11:30. He said, “Give me change for a quarter, and let you pay you.” [Laughter]. I can look back and laugh over those things now.

	I:	Right? But they were real!



	G:	Real-life things. And he wasn’t kidding! [Laughter] It was nothing strange for a child to work for a dollar and a half a day. And personally, I witnessed that.

	I:	And having that, that was money made.



	G:	Absolutely. And a dollar and a half was worth more to the people then, than perhaps what a half million now, because of value of things have changed so greatly. And being a young person, which in my school here at Mebane—ACT and Mebane—I was chosen as the most-liked person of the entire campus, I guess. But the class especially. So with that part of segregation, I wouldn’t be the best person to talk about it, because somehow or other, I was one of those that got along with everybody. So, when you mentioned about your father being Indian, and you not in Fort Lauderdale; see, that’s where I was, Hallandale. And up until 2004, I was transferred back here. Now, in your major cities, things is a





slight difference than some of your rural areas, where everybody know each other, and they respected you, but you didn’t cross the line. Because they’d put you in your place. You didn’t cross people’ property without permission, and in some parts that still hold true now. And when these kind of things occur, you thought it was just the normal way of life. Had you been there, you would have been the same. You wouldn’t have viewed it any differently, because that was the way of life. Now, for many of our children to see some of the things that you gone through, it has a build effect. If they take it with an open mind that this is the way of life, how we came; okay, that’s not a problem. But if they look at it through resentment, remorse in their hear, then they try to rectify history—which is impossible; bygones are bygone, you got to keep moving. But many of our folk who were thought to not make anything, they rose on to be prominent citizens of this country. And they have contributed a lot. If it wasn’t enough on the level of the next man, the fact is, he contributed. So those are the things that we can personally say we’ve gone through, we experienced. Yeah. In fact, the community, the Monteocha community, as a child growing up, there were those who was more of a gangster type, rough—not really to the point where they’d do anybody harm, unless you sought to harm them, but they just lived rough. Rough life. And from the time that I begun high school, the people who thought that this was another male figure that would never finish high school; up until that time, there was only one person from that area—boy, male child, that is—that finished high school. And so, the [inaudible at 13:36] come out of there. He was the only person who had finished high school. Some has gone to the tenth grade, two has





gone to the eleventh grade, and only one, and when I finished high school, I was the second male child to have finished high school from the Monteocha area.

	I:	Wow, talk about history! [Laughter] It’s amazing; you’re so interesting. Every time I talk to you, I learn so much! I do! But it’s just passing that education along.

	G:	And I think this is a story, not just confined to certain groups, but it does something to their total scope of educational status of our country.

	I:	And that’s what I try to get Ms. Robinson and Ms. Helen to understand; that this is isn’t just an idea for this little space. The impact of it, and who it’s going to reach; you can’t lock history away.

	G:	No, certainly. You shouldn’t even try. I:	You can’t lock history away!

	G:	Because at this point, who knows who going to take over, or take on rather, in another area. And when all of these areas become feeders into one public arena, then the history books would probably have to be scanned, and some things rewritten, to give us a clear view of what really transpired. Because we don’t have just but a little that has happened between all races, all creeds, all colors.

And with this as a starter, I think it should be tremendously, it will impact our world. And to prepare people to listen with an open ear of what has transpired. I believe it has its pros and cons, but many of us who have learned how to deal and get along with people would be able to share that this is the goal, this is the aim, this is what we need to continue to do. And I would even go as far as saying when this is done on a broader scale, we would have less walls.





	I:	Yeah, people understanding cultures, understanding who people are and their experience. Well okay, we’re right at almost eleven!

	G:	Okay. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Jennifer Romero, October 27, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, June 20, 2018

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019