AAHP 162B; Islar; 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 162B Mae Islar



Interviewed by Meghan Sam on August 2, 2019 61 Pages



Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; Civil Rights; Education]



AAHP 162B

Interviewee: Mae Islar Interviewers: Meghan Sam Date: August 2, 2019





	S:	This is Megan Sam with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. It is August 2nd, 2019 and I’m sitting here with Mae Islar in Newberry, Florida. Thank you for joining me today, can you tell me a little bit about when and where you were born?

	I:	I was born in Tampa, Florida, the youngest of three children. My mother died when I was about three, I believe it was, and of course in those days you had a family homestead. So, my mother and father lived with my grandmother and grandfather and we continued to live in the family home until I went to school. I guess the most influential person in my life has been my grandfather, because he was always home, he was a retired cigarette maker. He was one of the pioneers of Tampa coming when it was just starting off his city from Bartow. I heard a lot of family history coming along because we didn’t have television then, so entertainment was sitting around the fireplace around the front porch talking about things of the past. So, I went to high school in Tampa, I went to [inaudible 1:37] because all of us children are Catholic. My mother’s side of the family Baptist, my father’s side is Methodist. But, my aunt and uncle from my grandmother’s first marriage were all catholic, and they insisted that we have a catholic education and of course it was very convenient for us to go to the catholic school in the Catholic Church and, say, we were about three blocks from our house. In fact, it was even closer than the public school. So, we all had a Catholic education, went to the public high school in Tampa, and then went to





land grant which, by the way, I found out from my grandfather that the college, the idea and background for starting the college started in my great grandfather’s living room in Pensacola! My great grandfather was the owner of several fishing snacks, they called them back in that day, that fished for shrimp. He caught the market in New Orleans according to my grandfather, “dry” and it was so much business and the men had been out to sea for several months so they left everything in the hands of this attorney, but when the attorney completed the business, he came to Pensacola which is where my great grandfather lived and completed the business arrangements. While he was there they were talking about education for Black people in Florida, and most of them at that time, when they finished grammar schools then they started teaching. But at that time, the legislature, the United States Legislature, had passed a land grant college bill, which would fund colleges that specialize in agriculture, technical, and other areas where people could gain employment. Of course, my grandfather said that sounded like a very good idea since we didn’t have one in Florida so that Turner said that he thought he would come back and apply for a grant to fill the college which later became Florida [inaudible 4:10] University and he became its first president. So all of us went to Florida, and him of course! My godmother was dean of women at Florida [inaudible 4:23] she lives across the street from us, two doors down. That was interesting! So, that’s pretty much it.

	S:	So I know you said that you were part of three children— I:	Yes, the last!

	S:	Oh the last of the three children, sorry!





	I:	Yeah I was the baby!



	S:	Aw! Could you tell me their names and are you close and what your other siblings are like?

	I:	My oldest sibling is my sister, she is ninety-one and she is living now in Appling, Georgia with her daughter. I guess her daughter is kind of very, very, very protective and she didn’t want her mother living alone so she made sure that, in fact, her husband is [inaudible 5:14] and one of the things that they always did was to make sure they had a home that was big enough to accommodate not only her mother, but her favorite aunt, which is me! [Laughter] My brother who is the middle child, Wendell, he died I believe it’s been about thirteen or fourteen years ago. I was talking with his wife the other night and she was saying how much she missed him and of course it was one of those situations where she had lost her father, then her husband, then her daughter, and then one of her grandchildren within the span of about eight or ten months. So she was saying it was a very dark period for her. I was telling her, you know, it seems like now families are losing people in numbers. I had mentioned another family which is how we got on that conversation. But, all in all, we’re close! Always have been.

The three of us. Just before my brother passed he had been down to Florida because his wife’s father was ill and I had just sold some profit in Tampa, in fact, the homestead in Tampa. I told them that I was gonna treat them to a vacation and granddaddy would like that. He said, “We should celebrate!” And so I invited my sister and my brother to a week at the beach, my treat, and we just did whatever we wanted to do [inaudible 6:53] we had a condo there that we





thoroughly enjoyed. Then I took my sister home who lived in Deland at the time and then my brother to take him where he was with his wife, and came on home. Then about, I guess, a month or two later I got a call from my sister in law saying that my brother was gone. I said, “Gone where?” I was so shocked; he didn’t appear to be ill at all. He had a heart attack, she was putting shell down of all things and the kitchen cabinets, and she asked him to pass her the scissors I believe. When he didn’t she looked around and he was gone, just that quickly.

	S:	I’m very sorry to hear that. I:	So we were all very close.

	S:	Do you have any favorite memories with your siblings?



	I:	[Laughter] Well, my brother used to always call me his chained monkey because he was about four years older than me and whatever he did, I wanted to follow! I was a tomboy and we would sneak out of the house. He would come in my bedroom, his bedroom was right next to ours, and I slept by the window, and he would come and wake me up and I threw on some clothes and we would sneak out the window and down the roof. We would go out and walk the neighborhood. Now, we had a yard that had every kind of fruit conceivable at that time. But we would get up and walk around the neighborhood and get mangoes from the Petersons down the street, and we had three mango trees in our own yard! But they taste better when they’re somebody else’s mangoes. [Laughter] And we’d walk all around the block and everything and then we’d come back and we’d sit on the front porch, and by the time my parents, you know my grandparents, and my dad and all of them would wake up and everything, we would be sitting on the





front porch. Like we had been nowhere. We did all kind of fun things. We were just talking the other night, my sister and I, about living in the central part of Tampa, we were two blocks from highway 41. We could walk downtown, we could walk to Ybor City, we could to West Tampa, we were centrally located and we did an awful lot of walking which I’m sure had a lot to do with our being as healthy and living as long as we did because we did a lot of walking! We had streetcars at first, and then busses, but we preferred to walk, you could see so much more when you walked.

	S:	Do you remember specific things or places you would go to a lot?



	I:	Not really, because it seemed like our everything centered around church and school. We would go to church a lot at night and most of the time we would go seven o’clock Sunday morning so we’d have the rest of the day free. I won’t say that we were not allowed to go a lot of places, we had to ask permission to go visit even our neighbors and play with their children. You just didn’t go to somebody’s house, it just wasn’t done. As I said, we would just walk and sightsee, that was okay as long as we were together. We’d go to the movies and, let’s see, what else did we do? Well that’s pretty much it.

	S:	So, you said you would hang out with your neighbors? Their children? Were they your closest friends? Because I know you hung out a lot with your brother, but—

	I:	We had a family that was also catholic on my corner, the Walkers. They had children who were our ages, they had a daughter who was my sister’s age, Doris, and Deedee was my age, and then Anthony was my brother’s age. So, we would go and visit them and we would spend a lot of time together because usually we





would meet them at church and then we would walk back home together. Their father played the organ and so we all sand in a choir [laughter]. Yea funny! And we had church every, it seems like, every Friday night we had something.

Afterwards, her father, cause her mother never came with them, would sit on the porch at the directory which is right next to the church. It was the church, directory, and then the school. And they would sit out on the porch, the grownups, and we would play in the yard, on the playground and everything else. That was just pretty much our whole world! Church, the school, and our neighbors, and then of course we had chores to do. As I said, we had a pretty interesting yard. We had about three or four different Japanese plum trees, we had mangoes, we had oranges, we had grapefruits, we had pomegranates, we had pecans, we had avocado pears, the big ones! And we even had a banana tree! Everything that we wanted was at home, so we didn’t have to worry about anything.

	S:	Since church was such a big part of your childhood, was it something you were very excited to go to? Cause I know you had connect ions there, was it like something all the neighbors went to? Like very close, everybody knew each other?

	I:	Oh yes, everybody knew each other on our block. Sometimes at night when we’d sit on the porches and the neighbors were sitting [inaudible 12:54] we didn’t have TV, so front porch was a very big part of our community. The older people would sit on the front so as we were coming from school, the most important thing was that we had to speak to everybody. I think one day, I was so busy talking with my





friends that I didn’t speak to Mrs. Puckett, and when my dad came along [inaudible 13:22] and she told them that we passed by and didn’t speak to her, so we got a little taste of that now, when you pass by Mrs. Puckett we need to speak to her, my god. I don’t remember not, I usually speak to her. But from that point on, when we passed by we made it important to say “Good afternoon Mrs., Puckett!” [Laughter] But as I said, we were under constant supervision because people were sitting on the porch. They had no hesitation about telling your parents what you did or did not do. And parents would definitely act on it! So that was pretty much our life, you know. It was full, we had a lot of books to read and we had a library, and so I think I read everything in our whole library and it was one of those barrister libraries where those glass cases sat on one another. They were probably about five feet high. I remember reading The Climb and Fall of the Roman Empire! [Laughter] And just about everything, we had an encyclopedia and everything. It was just so much fun to sit and read! Then when I discovered the public library, which was about four blocks away, I think I read everything in the public library, not to mention the high school! I was an avid reader, I loved to read/

	S:	What was your favorite genre or your favorite books?



	I:	I remember the Nancy Drew books. [Laughter] It was a series and that was my heroin I guess! I grew up as a girl to Nancy Drew, The girl detective. I read anything, it didn’t make any difference, as long as it was interesting.

	S:	Do you still read a lot now? I:	Yes.





	S:	What kind of books? Has your taste changed a little bit, or is it still like everything?

	I:	After having to read so many academic works during my career and lifetime, I couldn’t wait to retire so I could read what I wanted to read when I got ready. I became interested in crime stories, and I think just about every one of the crime writers, particularly James Patterson, everything that James Patterson must have written or co-authored with someone else. Anywhere in the neighborhood maybe about ninety or one hundred books. Except there’s one series for children, I didn’t read that. But just about everything that James Patterson had written one way or another I either bought it, read it, or got it from the library, or got it from my neighbor who was also a big library, and we read the same books. I find a lot of people my age that like to read mysteries, so we do a lot of exchanges. The interesting thing was, I was in Williston maybe about two months and this man came in and he sat down facing me on the other end of the porch, some porch, and I looked at him and I knew he looked familiar, I kept watching him and watching him. On the sly cause I didn’t want to be so obvious and I’d say, “I know him but I can’t think of his name.” He had one of these patches on his arms, for people who were going through chemotherapy, and there was a very young, attractive lady with him who was kind of like, I guess, maybe a companion or an assistant or whatever. And I guess she had let him out and parked the car, she came in and sat with him, they had lunch. On the way out he stopped at the table and he looked down at my plate and he said, “Oh, I didn’t realize I could’ve had the fried chicken with that.” And I said, “Oh it’s very good.” Cause we usually go





down on Wednesdays which is when they have cabbage and collard greens cooked together, usually we get shrimp. This day I decided to get chicken. And he looked down and I kept thinking, “I know who you are, but I’m not gonna ask you.” Came home, rushed to the library, looked through, pulled out the James Patterson book and it was him.

	S:	Oh my god!



	I:	I know, I had a chance to talk to my favorite author and didn’t recognize—I knew he was a writer, but I couldn’t think of his name! Because I had read just about all of the mystery books, in fact, if you get a chance to see my collection, I’m thinking that I’ll probably give it to my niece when she gets all of her children grown then I’m sure she loves to read to so she’ll enjoy. If not, my nephew will.

	S:	That’s incredible that you saw him though, yeah! I:	I know!

	S:	What was your school life like growing up?



	I:	Well, I wanted to go to school so bad that I sneaked to school when I was about four years old and sneaked into my sisters classroom, she was about third or fourth grade, and sneaked into the room and sat under her desk, in the aisle next to her desk. She was so embarrassed she didn’t know what to do and the teacher said nothing, she knew I was there and looked at me and I guess she decided well it wasn’t anything for making a big deal out of it and so I stayed with my sister until the end of school and we went home together. I got a big lecture about not going off without telling anybody, and I wasn’t allowed to do that anymore! But I wanted to go to school and I guess I wanted it so much that they





did let me start early. I started first grade, we didn’t have kindergarten then, and I just thought my teacher was the most beautiful person in the world! And I decided that I wanted to be a nun like my teacher. So throughout school, I just enjoyed school! I used to make good grades, in fact, I think one grading period I brought my report card home and daddy would usually just look at it and say, “Okay that’s good.” But I had a B, and he looked at it and said, “Why did you get a B?” And I thought, “Most parents would be glad that their parents got all A’s and just one B and then he is upset about—“ I said, “I don’t know!” I said, “Something I probably didn’t do as well as I should have, but could have.” And I thought, “Why is he making such a big deal over the fact that I got a B, it’s not the worst thing in the world!” I never really was that concerned about grades, you know, I just enjoyed school and did what I was supposed to do and I guess most of the time I got A’s. I was head of my class when we finished. After ninth grade we went to public school for the first time, a high school there, and that was interesting. I had never been in a public school and we were usd to being called on, you didn’t raise your hand and so I often never raised my hand. I remember one history teacher in ninth grade—tenth grade, I’m sorry—said, “You can sit there if you want to and not say anything, but you’ll be sitting there next year.” And I thought, “Wow! Isn’t she ever gonna call on me?” Or whatever. So then I think she had one of those questions that nobody answered and then she started going down the row. When she got to me, I answered the question and I guess she said well, “I guess you have to call on her.” And I figured, well from this point on, I guess I’m gonna have to raise my hand. I had never been used to doing





that. It was interesting, the change from [inaudible 22:13] school to public school. But, I found friends from the other schools in the city and we became close, and it became kind of like kids who enjoy school tend to band together! We would compete with each other, “What did you get for so and so?” So we were always challenging each other. I think the race for Val and Sal was so close that they didn’t make the decision until about five or six days before graduation which didn’t give us an awful lot of time to do our graduation speeches. But I wound up being vowed and the other young man who was salutatorian Willy George Tucker, who was exceptionally smart, he was much smarter than me in science, but I think I had the edge on him in the other subjects. But anyway, he went on to be a college professor in physics I believe at one of the colleges on the East coast. Somewhere around, I guess, South Carolina or Georgia, one of those places. I’m not sure where he was, I talked to him about a year or so ago. We had another young man who was in the running and we had to take a lot of tests, in fact every time there was a test coming, I guess that was to make test wise.

There was a test to be eligible for a scholarship for teachers. I was interested in that one because I knew my sister was in school, then it would be my brother if he chose to go to school, he didn’t, he chose to go to the marines. I knew it was gonna be difficult, financially, on my family so I was looking for scholarships. And Robert Wilson was his name and he was sitting behind me and Robert never stopped when the proctor said stop and that infuriated me. He would be busy scribbling and everything so he got a lot [inaudible 24:40] would you believe that he got the scholarship? He knew he was not going to even stay in Florida, much





less go into education so I’m not sure why he did that, but anyway my hopes were dashed. I did get three or four scholarships, one from the University of Chicago in public health and my dad said, no way was I gonna be leaving going that far. Especially the northern Klan Then I got one to another college somewhere in, I’m not sure where that was, might’ve been Mississippi, and I got several scholarships locally. I got the sorority scholarship for five-hundred and one or two other. But anyway, I didn’t get that one. And I was working that summer and came home and there was a letter from the state saying that St.

John’s county did not have an eligible person—did not even maybe have anyone who even applied for it, but anyway I got a state scholarship from St. John’s county and I was delighted because I knew then I would be going to school. W

hen I started my freshman year my sister was finishing college so she got her first job which meant she was able to help me in anyway my family couldn’t. My brother was in the marines so it was clear sailing from there on. I had the Louis state scholarship through undergraduate. When I was teaching at Lincoln, [inaudible 26:29] Alexander who was a reading teacher encouraged me to apply for a grant and I kind of dragged my feet but she was very persistent. She kept behind me, kept behind me and made sure I met all the deadlines and everything. It was an MDEA fellowship for people who were interested in [inaudible 26:53] and supervision. Well, I was head of the English department with a bachelors, I really wasn’t interested in any of that. I don’t know why, I guess because I was always a person who would talk up for whatever I believed in and I took the scholarship which I received with FSU for a year in the summer.





Got my Masters, well actually it was an MA, Masters of Arts. While I was at FSU we had gone to a national English teacher’s convention in Des Moines, Iowa and while I was there I met a professor from Florida. When he found out I was from Gainesville, he wanted to know why wasn’t I at the University of Florida? I said well, “I didn’t have an opportunity to go to—“ And so he said, “You do now. Why don’t you consider coming back?” Well they started pursuing me even though I did have an offer to continue at FSU to pursue a doctorate in English, but I thought, well, why not? At least I’ll be home and I’ll be able to spend some time with my son and I was thinking I said, “You know, I’ve been teaching now for a whole however I long I taught.” My first job was in Deland and I worked there for three years, had to go back home to Tampa for two years because my step mother was ill and I stayed with her and I saw that she was able to stand on her own and I went to work in Miami for a year. During the time I was in Miami, my brothers [inaudible 28:55] who had been in contact with me since he had left with my brother Gordon back to the base there on the East coast, I’m not sure what it is right now. But anyway, he wrote me from wherever he was in the world, we were pen pals I guess for about well through the four years of college and most of the time when I was travelling around the state and Deland. He would always keep in touch with me cause he would call my grandfather and find out where I was, and then he would through him make sure he kept up with me. And then I was home, I believe it was Thanksgiving one year, and he called and I happened to be home, and he invited me to come to California. And I thought well, “I guess I could.” My family said, “Why not?” My father and grandfather were impressed





by people who were persistent, we weren’t allowed to date. I was in high school and the son of one of the funeral home directors, my dad had to pass by every day when he was going to work when he was working at the post office. And John would always ask him if he could take my company. And dad would say, “No.” And he would ask, and dad would say no. This went on and on and on and he never gave up. Dad finally said, “He is so persistent I told him okay. He could come to see you, but he couldn’t take you anywhere, okay?” I said, “All right.” But when he came, we were sitting on the front porch and daddy was sitting in the living room with the window open listening to just about everything we said. I was so uncomfortable, I begged him, “Please don’t come back!” [Laughter] I thought this is no fun whatsoever! And he came back to tell me goodbye, he was on his way to the train station to go away to school, and he came by and wanted to know would I ride and I told him no. Under no circumstances, my dad didn’t give me permission to take me anywhere, remember? And so we said goodbye and that was the last time I ever saw John. We were very protected—and I appreciate that now because I remember I was allowed to go to the prom with Willy George Tucker, but daddy had to meet him first so when Willy George came to the house [he] for some reason said, “I’m not worried, yes, you can go to the prom with him.” Willy George had some ways about him, you know, I guess he felt safe.

Especially since he was so smart. We went to the prom, the prom was at the Cuban Hall Patio and that was where all of the social events were help and right across was a bar. Across the street. There was a fight or some commotion over there, and the next thing I knew my daddy was at my side, at my elbow saying





let’s go. So I said, “Willy George I’m sorry, but I gotta go.” And so he made me leave the prom because he felt it was unsafe. That’s just how protective he was. In fact, so much so, that he continued this until when I was in school. I think I was about a junior and I came home and some of us had gone out to the clubs, and we were in this diner having breakfast around one thirty or so that morning, which to us wasn’t anything. And daddy came in and politely whispered in my ear, “It’s time to go.” And I said, “But—“And he said “It’s time to go.” So I didn’t wanna make a scene, so I left but when I got home I was furious with him and so the next time we went out—oh! Daddy had friends because he, on the side, would wait tables and he was a head waiter at the Tampa Golf and Country Club, a yacht club one of those places. Anyway, on occasion we would go to work with him, my sister and I we were talking about that too the other day, and he knew everybody, pretty much. My friends and I had gone to White Santa’s Blue Home, and White Santa’s knew my daddy and knew how protective he was of us and he saw me and said “No, I can’t serve you no liquor.” Now, I was twenty-one! He said, “I don’t care how old you are, you’re [inaudible 34:07] daughter and I’m not serving you anything. I was furious! So I asked my date if he would take me by a a package store and I bought a half a pint of alcohol. I don’t even know what it was, the cheapest thing there was probably, and when I got home I slammed that bottle on the table in front of my dad and I said, “Have a drink, since your friends won’t serve me a drink I thought maybe I would offer you a drink.

Because I can get a drink anywhere! I don’t have to go there. It was a nice place, I went there because it was nice, but since they wouldn’t serve me because I was





your daughter I want you to know that I can get alcohol anywhere, so your friends don’t have to try to censor me.” He was speechless, he didn’t say a thing and that was after one of his friends had come to the house, one of the guys who was gonna be waiting tables to get a ride with my dad, and in the process of dad getting ready the gentleman said, “Warren, you have some nice-looking daughters.” My dad hit the roof, “Don’t even look at my daughters.” And my step mother had to go, “Warren, you’re being ridiculous, don’t do that, don’t do that.” And he kind of calmed down, but he was very protective of us. He said, “I’m a man and I know what goes on.” And I thought, “Okay, all right.” I remember, finally, I think it was my sophomore year, I was allowed to take company and this guy, Bertram, he was a basketball player, he went to FAM, and he was allowed to come to the house. I think he did allow me to go to the movies with him and which [inaudible36:07] spying to make sure I got home safely. Bartram was very serious, and he asked me to marry him. He had this plan that where we were gonna go back to school and then he was gonna borrow a car and we were gonna go to Georgia and get married. My stepmother was in the bedroom, I guess she was listening to the conversation so when he left she pulled me aside and my daddy was working he wasn’t home, and she said, “Don’t do that. You need to make sure you get your education first before you consider marrying. I know you think that this is love and this is the right thing to do, but you’re too young. So please don’t.” So I thought about that and then I told [inaudible 37:02] that it was a no go. He respected that, in fact, my dad probably had a lot to do with my love life, of my absence of a love life. Because there was another guy





when I was a junior and we both were Catholics and we both went to St. Eugene’s and he called my dad and asked him if he could marry me. I don’t know what my dad said to him, but my dad called me and he told me to meet him at the game in Jacksonville. That was unusual cause he sent me money to come.

So I went to the game in Jacksonville, daddy had me paged over the loud speaker, and he came and he gave me forty dollars, which was a lot of money in those days! He said, “I just want you to promise me one thing—“ and he told me about the phone call. I didn’t realize Lori had called him and asked him if he could have permission to marry me. Cause he was my Kappa brother, band we saw each other and dated, but nothing that serious! I was a little angry that he had asked him before he asked me. You know, “You didn’t ask me? You asked my dad you were wasting your time!” [Laughter] So I promised daddy that I wouldn’t marry until I finished school and I was furious with Lori, I said, “Why would you do that--I could’ve told you—what did you say—was he angry? Blah, blah, blah.” And he said, “I really respect what he said, but where I came from you always asked the parents before you ask—“ and I went “Okay, all right, whatever. But anyway, the answer is no.” And then he went on to marry, which is what both of them did, so I lost two very good men. But anyway, be that as it may I finished school, I was working, went to Baltimore on one of my vacations and daddy was telling me about I had on too much lipstick. And I said, “Are you still trying to treat me like I’m a child? Do you realize I’m a grownup? I’m working, I’m making my own decisions and you’re telling me about—I said it’s time to stop now dad, be for real. Not now. Give it up.” And I think we kind out reached a point





where he finally decided that maybe he needed to be concerned about other things. I had made it this far and I was capable of taking care of myself and so forth and I hadn’t done anything that outrageous so he could relax. And pretty much he did. Especially since he was living in one state and I was living in another he couldn’t—and he had married for a third time. Because my stepmother had died and he married again, so I said well maybe he’ll be happy now and I’m happy. But anyway, that’s pretty much it. Well going back to education, I had finished at FSU, I decided I would take the rump on that I had an interview with Florida and I was gonna be in secondary ed and I was going for supervision and my advisor was Dr. Eugene Todd who was chairman of the secretary department at that time and also a member of the Alachua county school board. So it worked out fine, you know, until I think I was almost at the end and we had this one professor and we had a little young lady, I guess she was maybe a senior, she had to have finished her bachelor’s we were in this graduate class, and she had all the answers to everything. The college professor was just eating up all of this and I thought that wouldn’t work, none of this would work, neither one of you know what you’re talking about, you haven’t spent a day in a classroom on a public school. You didn’t have no idea what goes on in there. This went on and I got to where I dreaded going to this class to hear this garbage and I thought about all those other kids that were in there that were eating this up and I thought about all the interns we could supervise. That was my job, to monitor interns and I had quite a few interns as a teacher in Alachua County and you pretty much have to reeducate them because they don’t know anything when





they come in. I got a little something years ago from a young man, my first intern, and I had to start with him about how to dress and how to make sure that he was in control. He made an awful lot of progress. He called me to tell me that he was named teacher of the year in some county down in middle Florida. And so I said, “Good for him.” What a rocky start we had, I remember him inviting me to his house, he was married, and you know how married students are, most of us were, they invited me to have coffee I think they had coffee or whatever and to have dinner and they had spaghetti. It was sparse, but it was just so wonderful and I felt that he appreciated the fact that I was person interested in him and making sure that he could be the best person that he could possibly be. I was tough on him okay, but I appreciated the fact that he saw I was tough for a reason. I wanted him to be a good teacher, and he was, and he became one. But back to this professor, I took it as long as I could and I finally went to talk to Dr.

Todd I said, “I’m gonna have to drop this class.” He said, “But that’s a requirement.” I said, “I can’t take it!” And we talked and in fact, he invited me to his house and I sat down with him and his wife and we were sitting there and I said, it’s just too much! And I explained why, neither one of them knew what it was like to be in the classroom. I said these things aren’t working. I can understand now why people call this an ivory tower. You’re teaching about pie in the sky and you’re gonna run into trouble when you face reality when you get out there in the classroom. So he said, “See if you can tough it out.” I said, “Okay.” I don’t know whether he spoke to him or not, but it wasn’t that much longer, I said okay but let me say this, “I can’t take this anymore I’m ready to go back in the





classroom. This is just too much idealism.” Instead of the doctor, I just wanna cut it off at the specialist. So I did, I finished up and I think the only thing I had to do was a dissertation, but I had had it. I thought, let me get back to the real world.

So I did, but I never got back to the classroom because I went back and became a supervisor. Which was fine because that’s what I had been doing at the university, supervising interns. I became an English supervisor and that lasted about two or three years until we had a superintendent who came in and went away with all the subject area supervisors. We were sent into the schools as assistant principals. So I was sent to Newberry and the principal there wasn’t too happy about it because he had his own way of doing things and I though oh god, okay I’m gonna stay here, but this is not gonna be a good position. I started looking around that next summer for places to go and I put in a few applications, and then the school board started getting requests for recommendations and realized that these people were interested, the assistant superintendent at that time came out and he had a talk with me and he wanted to know what was wrong. I told him, he said we’d hate to lose you to the system, so they moved me from Newberry to [inaudible 46:17] I thought okay, I’ll try that. My secretary was Diane Sculley and she was young, we got along well, and I stayed in [inaudible 46:33] for two years and then they needed someone over—they didn’t pull back supervisors, but they started developing the curriculum department again. So I was asked to go back over to the old post office in the curriculum department and work for the assistant superintendent for curriculum. What I was doing, pretty much, we had a supervisor of elementary and then we had a few other key





people but not anything like we had prior, where we had a supervisor for every subject area. But anyway, my job was to do all of the coordination with all of these people, pretty much I was second to the assistant superintendent for curriculum. And so I did that, there were so many programs then, you had Head Start, and we had a program where we had kids who were possibly going to be [inaudible47:47] were problem kids and we had a program for that. I was sitting in a meeting one day when the superintendent, and I was sitting at his right hand, left hand rather, and he looked at me and said, “Could you be a principal?” And I looked at him and I thought about something my grandfather said, “I said I can be anything I wanna be, why? What’s the problem?” So he said, “I’ll talk to you later.” He was telling me about this principal and he was having some problems and I said, “Oh no! I worked for this principal, I know him, I know how he is and that would be the worst thing in the world you could do. I’d be happy to look for somebody, help you find somebody to fill that position, but that’s not a position I would take.” I said, “I know him, I’ve been a friend of his and I couldn’t do it.” He said, “But I gotta make this move.” And I said, “Well, you know you’ve said that you were looking for a person to be an assistant superintendent of student affairs, he would be the perfect. Because everyone in the community likes him, he’s very popular, the only way I think this would work is you’re gonna have to elevate him and then if there’s a vacancy I’ll step in.” But, I said, “Otherwise, no.” It was interesting, I guess I have—what—I don’t mind saying things, don’t ask me what I think cause I’m gonna tell you. I got that reputation I think. So anyway, he thought about it and then he approached him, made the move, and they said





okay we’re gonna do it. I said, “Wait a minute, if you do it, you’re gonna have to do it just before the Christmas holidays, the last board meeting of the year. That gives everybody over the Christmas holidays to adjust. I said you’re gonna have to insist that there are no demonstrations or walk outs or so forth, that this is an opportunity for this person to advance and you’re bringing in someone else, and I said, “It has to be a peaceful transition or I won’t go into it.” So, it worked out. I showed up first of the year and I also said I have to take my secretary with me.

And I chose the assistant principal, one of I had worked with as—he was science supervisor when I was English supervisor. The other had been a teacher when I was assistant principal at Newberry, so I knew them and I felt comfortable with them. I knew that we could form a team and do the team leadership approach and I had a three year contract to move this school from point A to point B, and then C. I said, “Okay, I can do this, but there are several things I want. Number one, I want all the locks changed. Number two, I want a complete audit of everything that’s going on out there, I want to start free and clear. Then you can take me from this point on, and it’s a year to year contract, but I need at least three years to get it to where it needs to be. And I guess I did! Because in that three year period, we made a lot of progress. One of the things that they hadn’t had a lot of was extracurricular activities, clubs, and organizations. What else did we do? It was something that was pretty outstanding, I can’t remember what it was. I had to let go of a couple of coaches who had been there forever and they weren’t happy about it, but that was the only way to bring in a winning football team which is important, from around. We made some changes. I learned that





when you tell a person that they’re not doing a good job, it’s not easy. When you have to move them, but that’s a part of the job. You can’t just continue to let things go because you’re afraid of hurting someone’s feelings. You let them down as easy as possible, I let him keep the title of being athletic director, but as head coach he couldn’t be that. He didn’t have what it took to win. I didn’t know that much about football, but I know three players and kickers not gonna win any games. So we had a winning football season, we hired a coach that was excellent, and even the principals were the [inaudible 52:53] Dan said “Mae I’ll have to give it to you, you really have done a good job at every sign.” I felt that was the highest compliment coming from someone that I respected cause Dan was excellent, in fact, Dan finally became superintendent long after I retired. But anyway, like I said, it was interesting. I stayed at East side I think, five or seven— seven years I believe it was! I had just come back from a Southern Association Accreditation trip, I think it was down in Webster, somewhere in that area. Dan said, “They want to see you as soon as you get back in town.” And I called and went in and that’s when they told me they wanted to move me into Beau Holton’s from East side and I thought, “Why? I’ve done everything you’ve asked.” They said, “Yeah, but we need to make some changes there.” I said, “Is that what I am now, the trouble shooter?” I was supposed to go in and change situations. They said, “Well, people pretty much look at you that way now.” And I thought, “Oh here we go again.” I said, “I gotta go home and thing about this, I’ll let you know tomorrow.” And I thought, “ I don’t know that I’m up for this again.” Cause I had gotten the school just where I wanted it, I could leave town,





everything would run perfectly, the faculty was cohesive, the kids were— everything was—now why do I have to go and start something altogether different and these were the kids with the parents who had the biggest mouths and the most influence. So I thought, okay here we go. I came home and I was talking with my son who was also in high school at that time and he was saying, “I don’t know mom, it is gonna be different.” I said, “Yeah you’re right.” That’s one thing, he never wanted to go where I was principal. He was content tp be here at Newberry, and like the protective mom I had people looking out for him to make sure that he was taken care of. And I said, “If anything happens—“ Cause he was playing football, and I’m going in one direction and he’s going in another, and I thought, “If anything happens, take him to the hospital and call me.” This was kind of like not only to the coach, but to the policemen who were scheduled to work all of our games, because I didn’t realize it at the time, but my future daughter in law had already seen him and made up her mind she was gone marry him. I had taken him to a game with me and we were sitting there and she and her parents were sitting there, she and her mother, cause her dad was a policeman working the game, and she told me later, “When I saw him I knew I was gonna marry him.” I thought whoa, and they both wound up at FAM and they both wound up deciding that they were gonna get married, which they did, and that’s my great-granddaughter, that’s my granddaughter daughter.

	S:	She’s so cute!



	I:	She’s six now.



	S:	Oh my gosh! The little bow!





	I:	I know! So the family’s got bonded because this was the guy that I replaced at East side’s brother. Isn’t that interesting?

	S:	Yeah!



	I:	[Laughter] So now they’re family. [Laughter] Boy I’m glad that worked out the way it did. So anyway, I went to Beau Holton’s and I got to take my secretary, wherever I go Diane has to go, and I got—

	S:	Is that like a phone call?



	I:	Sounds like a car radio or something. S:	Oh it does.

	I:	Must be across the street at the park. We can’t see it. But anyway, long and short of it, it worked out really well because the first day I walked in, of school, the faculty stood up and gave me a rousing applause. And I thought, “Wow.” They were happy to see me and I thought, “Okay, this isn’t gonna be as difficult as I thought it was.” We had brought in a different style of school management. We were in school-based management at the time which meant that as an individual school you not only had to control your finances, your personnel, you did everything at the school-based level within the budgets that you were given. It worked well because no one person has all the answers. You got to work together as an administrative team to that you can work with the faculty, and you’ve got to work with the parents, and you’ve got to work with the kids. So, that worked out fine, I was telling my sister the other day, she says, “I quote you a lot when I’m talking to Kathy about our school system.” I said, “For real?” Well our philosophy, and I’ll say that because we sat together and we were close, you





need to know everything I know so that if they can’t get the answer from me, they can get the answer from you, or you, or you, or you. So I had an assistant principal for curriculum, one for administration, one for student services. That was Susan for curriculum, Bob was administration, and men did all the other things that had to do with supervisor, pretty much the dean’s office and most of the student services. So that was the three of us. So there were four of us. It worked out well, we decided we wouldn’t have faculty meetings after school, we would have them during the teacher’s lunch break. We would have faculty meeting every period and we would take turns, conducting the faculty, which means I would conduct one they would sit in and then they would take the others so that everyone was saying the same thing and everybody had a chance to demonstrate leadership. Because the truth is somebody’s gonna have to replace them. Then at the beginning of the year we always sent a notice out to parents, “You need to come to this first meeting.” And we would meet with the parents by grade level, just the guidance people and the administration. We would sit and talk to them about what to expect this year, how to communicate with us, what are plans are, how we operate, etcetera. Always with the idea that parents were always welcome to come in at any time. You’re gonna hear side of the story from your kids, you need to hear our side. You also need to observe, so you can come in anytime you want to, in unexpected schedule, all you need to do is check in at the office, we’ll give you a pass, we will take you wherever you want to go. Every classroom has a seat in the back where an observer can go in at any time and observe any class. Teachers expect that. We would meet with the teachers and





tell them what we had said, what we had planned to do, how they communicated, we were gonna have a lot of meetings. You meet with your department, we will be meeting with department heads, we will have occasional faculty meetings during the week, or month, or whatever. And you’ll have opportunities to go so that it doesn’t take away from your workday or extend your workday. You can go anywhere you want to go as long as you sign out and we know where you’re going so we can be accountable for you. I say, we met with the students, class by class and we talked to them and we told them how to solve problems. Said, “If you can’t solve the problem, you need to find one of us, the counselors and the administration will be there, and let us help you solve the problem. Cause if you try to solve it, it’s not gonna work well. So don’t try to solve it yourself, just let us know and we will help you through whatever situation.” And that worked out, you could talk to us anytime, it’s an open door policy, if you just really have a problem, just come to the office and say I need to see this person or that person and we will work with you. So they always had access. So we always knew what was going on, I think at the time when we had closed the campus because it really wasn’t safe, they were rushing put in thirty minutes to try to get to places that were crowded already, and then rushing back, and it was an accident waiting to happen. So we first met with them and asked them what was it that they really wanted, because we were getting ready to close campus. So they knew we were gonna close campus, and they wanted pizza so we got local pizza people to some in and bring in pizza. They wanted a salad bar, we got a salad bar set up for them. Some of them wanted bag lunches where they could just sit out, we





had bag lunches. We had regular, traditional school lunch, with whatever the government said you had to do. We had a hamburger, French fry line which a lot of kids liked. So we had everything you need, why do you need to jump in a car and run to try to get something and then not have time to eat it and worry about being late for class. Once we did that we had planned to close the campus because it was an open campus which wasn’t safe. We knew that way back when we planned to fence it, but we didn’t tell them that at first. So we closed the campus and the next thing was fencing it. Meanwhile, a district officer said, “I don’t think that’s gonna fly.” “Believe me, it’ll work.” Because we’ve already talked to the influential parents, the parents are with us, the faculty is with us, we’re trying to convince the students. Well, I’m not sure what it was but they decided that they were going to have this protest, and we got wind of it, some of the teachers overheard they were planning on walking out after lunch. I said, “You need to tell them that we’re all going to have ten minutes quizzes at the beginning of the period that cannot be made up and it will affect their grades. You I had to get on the intercom and say to them, “You have the right to walk out, but now getting back in may be a little more difficult. So you need to think about that as you make this decision, this is your choice. By the way, I’ve had information from the teachers that they’re planning on giving a ten minute quiz at the beginning of the period. They’re gonna be stationed at their doors and after that tardy bell, that last bell, those doors will be closed and they’re not planning to open them. So it’s your choice. You know, whatever you’re unhappy about, I understand, that’s why you have a student council. I’ll meet with them at any





point, but have a good day!” I said, “We’ll be out front watching you.” They had [inaudible 1:05:22] last period and everything, and as it got closer some of the kids started edging towards the front and they had called channel twenty so the reporter was all there ready to film everything. So I told the sheriff, “Tell that reporter he can stay across the street, but he cannot set foot on this campus.

Anything he wants to film he’ll have to do it from across the street.” So he did, he went up and told him. The first bell rang and kids were kind of moving, and I think they were getting excited, “We’re gonna be able to pull this off.” That tardy bell rang and most of the kids started making a break for it. Getting to those classrooms. When the rest of them saw that everybody was running, by the time that final bell rang and you could hear the doors going clink, clink, clink, there was not a person in the hallway. And we were standing out there looking at them smiling and everything. “This is your choice, if this is what you wanna do go ahead!” That was the end of that. They met with student council and they came up with whatever their demands were, I can’t remember what it was, but it was something so simple I go “Of course we’ll do that.” I don’t know what it was, but it wasn’t a big deal. I guess they say, you know, “They’re outthinking us on all of this so we better just go along for the road.” I knew then we could work together as a faculty when I was getting close to the end because I had my thirty-four years in, thirty-five, and I thought, “I’ve worked thirty-five years and these people deserve a chance to have my position.” If that’s possible. And I need to get out and make way for other people, and plus I remember a trip I had gone on and this old people were trying to get on and off thee sightseeing busses, I said “I





think I wanna travel and see the world before I get to where I’ll need a cane and a walker to do it.” So several people were leaving and I thought, “I’m not gonna have my contacts at the central office.” One guy in particular said he was just waiting to make sure we could carry our health insurance into retirement. He said once we get that done then I’m ready to go, I said well when you get ready to go, fix my papers cause I’m ready too. So, we tried to keep it secret so the kids wouldn’t get upset, but I had notified them that I would not be coming back that time of year. I think I had done nine or ten years or whatever. Nine years, ‘cause it was sixteen total at the administration. So anyway, I told them I said, “Good luck!” And June 30th I was out of there. Of course it helped that my sister had retired and she would say, “Oh I got to let you go cause you got a government work in the morning. We had gone up to visit my brother and she said, “Oh that’s right, you have to work during the summer.” I had never been to a national convention in my sorority. By that time, her daughter had joined a sorority and we thought, why don’t we all go to [inaudible 1:09:11] and my sister said, “You got to work.” And I said, “Not necessarily.” And that’s when that Christmas I decided that I was going to really retire, and I did. We did get together, that was the first of several trips my sister and I made that next summer cause when I retired we went to [inaudible 1:09:33] It was in New Orleans. We left New Orleans and we flew with my niece to, I think they were stationed at Fort Hood in Texas, so we spent a couple of weeks out there and went to Mexico and all around San Antonio, did the whole Texas bit. Then one of my former students who lived in Alaska had been trying to get me to come visit her in Alaska invited us up. But





she was having a meeting in Seattle first so she said, “Why don’t you fly into Seattle and plan to spend a couple of days in Seattle and then we’ll fly together to Anchorage.” which is where she lived and worked. So sure enough, we came back from Texas and New Mexico, came back and we had to change clothes because we were going to Alaska now and we flew out of Daytona to Seattle, we spent time in Seattle, maybe about three or four days there seeing the market and all those wonderful places. We left and went back with her to Anchorage and we stayed out there about two or three weeks. We even had our own car because she had two cars. When she was working we would go sightseeing and doing things and everything, we had kind of like a basement apartment that had everything down there. Her mother was living with her and her two cats and it was fun, we really enjoyed it. Then the three of us together took a trip up to the national park, Denali. We also went of a cruise out of the southern tip of Alaska and did that cruise, the glacier watching one. We really did cover Alaska quite well! [Laughter] When we came back, then another one of my coworkers had come and she invited me—I had given her a leave of absence for three years, she had joined the department of defense and she was working overseas. Of course I was no longer principal and so I had told her, “I’m not gonna be able to give you a leave for a fourth year. Plus it wouldn’t have been happening even if I had stayed there, so you have to make up your mind. Either you’re coming back or you’re going to stay with the OD.” So she said, “I’m staying with the OD.” I said, “Okay fine.” She wanted me to come and spend some time with her. Now, at that time she was working out of Spain, and she was gonna be changing to





work in Italy. And she said, “Mae, why don’t you come over?” And she had come home that summer, “and fly back with me to Spain, and then when I pack we’ll drive from Spain, and get a chance to see Europe, over to Italy. And then you can spend some time there.” I thought, “That sounds great.” It’s a chance to see Europe with somebody, you know, buddy and everything that I feel real close with and I said okay. So then my buddy that we had visited in Alaska, Coralline, she said, “You know I have all these airline miles and everything.” Because she was the supervisor with one of those insurance—I’m trying to think whether it was State Farm or one of them. So she sent me all these air miles and everything so my trip, in fact, it was more miles than I could use I think I had about six hundred miles left. So I got a roundtrip ticket from Gainesville to Atlanta, to Madrid, and then from Rome back to Florida. And still had six hundred miles left. So anyway, we had agreed she was gonna go visit some people in somewhere out from New York, brother or whatever, and then she was gonna fly out of New York and I’m flying out of Atlanta. Now this is an awful lot of trust. By the way, did I mention that Trudy was never on time for anything?

	S:	You did not.



	I:	Okay, and as a teacher I knew that. So she flies out of New York and I’m flying out of Atlanta and we get to Madrid and I go into the waiting area for the trip from Madrid to Seville. And I’m sitting there and no Trudy. And I’m thinking, what was I thinking? I said, suppose Trudy doesn’t show up and the plane leaves, then what? No message, whatever. Cellphones weren’t that popular back then, I don’t think they were even in existence. So anyway, I’m sitting there thinking, “Well, at





least I have a roundtrip ticket, I’ll just fly back home and I’ve got money so at least I’m not broke.” And just as they made the last call for the flight, here comes this woman running, looking glamorous, Trudy has had a makeover. I almost didn’t recognize her, Trudy was kind of roughish. When she had a haircut and she was—I said, “Trudy!” And she said, “Come on we’re gonna be late!” [Laughter] The interesting thing, I found out so much about Europe that’s so different from America. First of all, there were no assigned seats, so we just sat wherever we wanted to on the plane going down to Seville. We got to Seville, we changed our money over to Spanish money, and we got this taxi who took us down to near the base, there was a naval base, I think it was at the foot of Spain. This taxi driver drove like the people used to drive at Ybor City. In Tampa there was a saying, “If you could get from Ybor City out to the state driver’s license place, [inaudible 1:16:20] if you could drive through there in one piece, you probably, you definitely could pass the driving test!” This guy drove like a bat out of you know where. I’m sitting back there [heavy sigh] pressing my [inaudible 1:16:36] and everything. When we finally got to our area, I felt like doing like the pope did, getting out of that taxi and kissing the ground. I hugged the taxi driver instead and tipped him very generously and everything. We took pictures with him and everything. So then I said, “Thank god, I’m not a drinking person but I could sure use a stiff one now.” And so, we were there and it was so much fun, it was! We did put the car on the train until we got to Madrid, took the car and then drove over to Spain, and when we got to Spain I had brought one of those tickets where you can get on any road and go wherever you want to. They have an





excellent transportation system there. So I got to go up and spend a day in Florence looking at the museums there and everything while she was working. Then I took another bus trip, a tour, that they had arranged of the base and went to one of those cities there and got a chance to do that city and everything. It was just an awful, great time. So by the time I got back, when that plane landed in New York, everybody just screamed, we were just so glad to get back to America. Then when I got home, the first thing I did was to get in my shower and enjoy the water pressure and the volume. Realizing how scarce water is in other parts of the world. We were in Spain, at ten o’clock at night they would cut the water off. The water was from large cisterns on the roof of the condo where she lived. Right on the beach, beautiful views and everything. The water was off until six o’clock the next morning because they were in the middle of a drought. Water was still scarce when we went to Italy, cause you could take a shower but it wasn’t anything like when we turn it on and we get all the—it’s not that much pressure. You really begin to appreciate things that we take for granted. The food, you don’t get refills on your drinks. [Laughter] And the food it seems like it’s such a little bit, but it’s filling. We give people too much food, and we get used to that and now I’m at the point when they bring me a plate I say, “Bring me a takeout plate.” Cause there’s no way in the world you can eat all of that. We eat too much and we expect too much. We expect if we want three refills then we get them. That’s just unheard of! When you go shopping we expect all of these choices which they don’t have, and I don’t know. It made me think about how fortunate we are, but how wasteful we are.





	S:	Right.



I:   And how other people in the world do a better job of preserving their resources than we do. We could learn a lot from them. They could learn a lot from us. But anyway, what else do you need to know?

	S:	Well, like since you said, since that’s changed your view a lot have you changed your lifestyle in anyway to be more like—

	I:	I’m not—I don’t have to have a lot of things I thought I had to have. And that puts me in a position to help other people with things I never noticed before. My godson has his lawn business and his mower broke and he was saying, “Well it was used when I got it.” Blah, blah, blah, and he didn’t have the credit to do it and I thought, “Why not?” So I said, there’s only one condition, “My yard is gonna be mowed every week.”

	S:	[Laughter]



	I:	During the summer, and I will not be paying you I will taking a note on your mower. And that’ll be an extra one hundred and ten dollars, I think it was. I think the payment is like three ten or whatever, in other words you’ll be paying me cause the payment coupon book is coming to me so I’ll be paying for that new mower that you’re riding. But it helped him out because he was able to take that mower and he could do yards while the guys that were working for him would take the other mower. Cause I think one was on the mower, one does the trimming, and the other one does the weed eater thing. So they work as a team. He could do my yard and all of that, and then sometimes they would come and help, but it has helped him and his business and helped them as well. We really





don’t need that much once you retire, you know. You’ve just about accomplished everything you needed to do, so why not help somebody else at this junction. I’m not saying just generously give to people, giving but where it’s needed. [Telephone ringing] I have no idea who that is. So um, I can get by with a little of nothing. I shop maybe, grocery shop, maybe about once or twice a month. I cook and I put part of it in the freezer so I don’t have to cook as much. I don’t know, I feel comfortable, I give to my church generously because they help so many other agencies and they can do things that I can’t do. We, for example, have what is it? Is it—not Jamaica’s, Haiti. I think we sponsor a school, a hospital, a nursing home, and an orphanage in Haiti. Two or three times a year a medical team goes down and stays for two or three weeks to help them. I like charities that help people like food for the poor, Mercy ship, Salvation Army, Red Cross, so I give a lot to charity that I feel will help other people. Uncle Sam likes that too. But it’s a way of giving back cause you’ve been blessed. I feel that you just can’t sit back, it does you no good to pile up things here on earth because you can’t take them with you anyway. So if you can help somebody else, to me, that’s a lot more—I guess—gratifying, satisfying. When you see somebody else that’s able to do what they need to do. It works. It’s a good feeling.

	S:	So do you go to church a lot now, regularly?



	I:	Oh, every Saturday. Well, see, in my church you can go Saturday. I used to go eight o’clock Sunday. It’s kind of funny, the crew that I used to hang with on Sunday, it started when we had first moved into the parish hall. I’d sit on one end of the pew and this lady would get up religiously when I walked in and come all





the way down the hall to give me a hug. She’d come with her daughter, and her daughter was [inaudible 1:25:25] and she’d do this without fail. And then when we moved into the new church, her daughter would come and I got to where I would sit next to them. Cause it was easier for her to—[Laughter] Then she got sick and I started going to the house to take her food or whatever and I got close to the other daughter who was a nurse and she liked the same books so we started exchanging books. The only thing is she smoked so I’d have to leave the books in the garage two or three days to get the smoke smell out of them. [Laughter] And let’s see, the older sister got sick first, well the mother got sick first, and she passed. Then, Gladys started getting dementia and so then of course finally Terry got sick. So I would take her to meet her appointments and, you know, go visit and sit with her while she could go shopping or whatever. I guess I became very close to them. Then it seems like there was always someone that needed me to help them out. After both of them—well first the mother dies, then Terry died and Gladys went to live with family in North Florida, near Tallahassee. Then I got word from Elsie that she had passed. It just seemed like with them gone, then the guy who had been close to Ezra who I was dating, and we decided we would just date and not get married cause he had family and I had family. He was retired, I was retired, we didn’t wanna mess things up. He and his wife had worked to provide for their two daughters and I had worked to provide for my son and his family. So, we would just be dating partners. And when he got in the hospital, you know, I was with him until the very end and there was a guy in the VA hospital with him who always looked out for him. He wasn’t





offered and he had no family, so we pretty much, his daughters and my family, we pretty much adopted Jacky. Well, I was coming back from visiting my sister in Deland, and I got a call from Jacky that he was at the VA and he had been released. He had no place to go and they had suggested, they gave him bus fare to go to the Salvation Army where he had once been. And I said, “Just stay where you are, I’m halfway to Gainesville I’ll come pick you up.” And then I hung up and thank god for cell phones, I called my neighbor cause I knew she took in people occasionally, and I asked her if she had any vacancy cause she checked in a [inaudible 1:28:37] and she said, “Not until tonight. If you can keep the person until tonight.” She said, “I’ll come over to the house about eight o’clock.” She does the, not the nursery home, but the funeral home. And all upstairs are people that she takes in who have no place to go. She’s a really great humanitarian. But anyway, I picked up Jacky and we went and had dinner and I brought him out here and she came over with her daughter and they met him, agreed to take him. So he stayed over there and he kind of became the person in charge of the house, cause all of them worked and everything. It was a really good partnership and everything. So I stayed with Jacky until he got sick, was in the hospital and he passed. I had been taking care or having a sick person that I had to look out for about twenty-five years. So then I decided I would really just start doing some travelling. I had the R.V. and we started going more often.

Sandra had lost her husband and they turned their R.V. and so I said, “Well you can drive with me.” And so we went to Williston cause I wasn’t certain what Williston was I thought, “What do they have in Williston?” So I went down, looked





at the R.V. park and it was beautiful. In fact, it was one of our favorite places. Williston, Daytona, and Tampa which we’re going to in two weeks. But I’m not driving the R.V. Sandra’s husband has to have surgery and so we had planned to take the R.V. but Helen, the other person who is an absolute fantastic cook, [Laughter] She always baked a lot of her miniature potato pies and cake and so they look forward to coming to visit our R.V. cause they know they’re gonna find some delicious food there. Especially the guy who was, oh what do you call him, the person, the wagon master we call him pretty much. And he and his wife and everything. But it’s a good group of people to be with and as I said they’re going to Tampa, but we’re gonna stay in a hotel this time. Another lady who is also into R.V.ing cause she doesn’t have anybody to drive hers and I thought okay that’s fine. So, there’s always something to stay busy and do.

S:  So, I know that your neighbors the one that was taking people in, are the other people you R.V. with, were those also your neighbors or just l8ike other people you knew?

	I:	Who?



	S:	Well you were talking about going and staying in a hotel are those like—



	I:	Uh-huh. This is a lady who, when she decided she wanted an R.V. she came and sat with me and asked me what it was all about, what it took and everything.

Which is what I think people usually do. That’s what I did when I was interested in going and R.V.ing, I went and talked with Sandra, I talked with Juanita, because she and her husband had one and the two husbands were brothers.

And I got a lot of good information. One of the things they told me should have a





slide-out in the bedroom because otherwise you have difficulty getting in and out of the bed. You need at least two slides. One in the living are and one in the bedroom. Now they make them with four slides so it’s almost like a double-wide trailer when you get to them. What else did she tell me? Make sure that I got diesel and not gas and just good information. I bought it from Lazy [inaudible 1:32:42] which is where they had bought there’s which is where we’re going in a couple of weeks. I got someone who really knew what I was looking for before I went down there so I looked at about three or four when I got to fourth and I said this is it because it had everything that I wanted. I’ve been very happy with it, I’ve had it now for about, what, ten years? Maybe seven. And I’m not ready to give it up. You meet a lot of people, from all over the state because it’s a state-wide organization that we have. There are about I guess maybe a hundred, originally there were about a hundred and twenty plus people in it and that includes couples. So just about everybody is a couple so that means probably about sixty R.V.’s and the most you’d have at any outing is about thirty or forty coaches. And then it got to where we had a few people from Georgia, South Georgia, and it’s— interestingly enough there are people who have such interesting backgrounds.

But at the same time similar, and the other thing that I like about R.V.ing is when you go to an R.V. park it doesn’t matter whether you’re from Maine or Mississippi everybody is so friendly and anxious to help if you have any difficulty. I remember when I first got it, Barbara and I were doing a whole lot of [inaudible 1:34:19] we had a retired truck driver that our friends felt that we needed to have cause they weren’t sure that we were capable of handling an R.V. by ourselves so they got





him to go down with us and bring it back and then he liked it so much, and us, that he became our driver and he was very good until he had to go join his family down in Tampa. Cause he had lived with family here then he wound up going down, there was his daughter down in Tampa. Then Barbara started driving and we used to go places, particularly in Georgia, cause Georgia has the best parks, state park system. With places for R.V.’s and they all have water features and they all have a lot of other activities. Now my favorite is veteran’s park out of— uh—I can see it now. But anyway, it’s the next stop past Valdosta and it’s right on a river. They have a casual restaurant, they have a convention center there, they have a couple of places where you can just go get snacks. Did I mention it was right on the water which I love. Then they also have cabins and one year we decided that, I think we rented two cabins, about seven or eight of us and we went up there and spent the week after Christmas there and that was a lot of fun. We had a lot of fun doing that. Let’s see, what else, that’s about it I guess. It’s been fun.

	S:	Are there places that you still, like, wanna go in particular? Cause you’ve also travelled, like, so much are there any other countries you wanna go to?

	I:	No, in fact I’ve turned down quite a few trips. When my sister, Cathy and her husband were stationed in Hawaii, I really didn’t wanna go. It just wasn’t interesting. Fortunately, her daughter had to come back and so my sister was able to fly back with her. Where else. I’ve had other trips that I, you know, I’ve been to most of the states cause when Cathy is stationed somewhere usually we wind up having to go visit her. She’s been in Kansas, I went to Nebraska with





Matt [inaudible 1:37:07] my nephew. I went to Ohio, spent some time there with my church group for about a week or two. Weeks, I think it was. Of course the Baltimore area, I’ve had relatives in the New York area. I didn’t want the trip to Boston with some group I was supposed to go with and I really wasn’t that interested in going. I’ve been to the Bahamas several times. Went to Cuba, just before Castro took over. That was a school-sponsored trip, sponsored by the Jacksonville Times Union. The little guy who had won the trip for my school didn’t speak Spanish that well and they wanted to make sure, they weren’t sure how racial conditions were when he would get separated so everybody else was White they wanted to make sure that there was a Black person who spoke Spanish. So I was drafted pretty much. It was a good trip, it really was. There were a few people who said some things that weren’t very nice. Luckily they said them in Spanish so the rest of them didn’t know what they were saying and I answered them in Spanish. But, it was a very good trip, no there were no separations and everything. We went all over Cuba down to [inaudible 1:38:33] through the country and saw the side of Cuba that tourists never see and we went to—at night when we would go out, the adults would go out the kids were taken care of, there were only two young men, but I think he had a chaperone and, I think the guy who was the manager of all of us so there were two White guys and me and then two kids. We went to a nightclub and we were sitting there, this one couple, I knew they were American cause most people in there were American and she was staring so hard and everything. [Inaudible1:39:16] “What is this?” And so, I guess she got cold and her husband got up to put his





jacket around her and it was one of those places where oh no you can’t do that. You have to have on a jacket to be in here. So they brought her a table cloth to put around her [laughter]. I just looked at her, threw my fur cape around me a little bit closer and everything. Now you can quit looking. But, you know, it’s very seldom in my travels have I run into any kind of problems. Particularly in Europe I didn’t run into any and, of course, it helped when I was in Spain that I spoke Spanish so I was able to get along and do things there. No, I can’t think of any place I wanna go to I haven’t been.

	S:	Are there people that you’ve met that lived in those countries that you really connected with?

	I:	I think, more or less, it’s been the people who have connected with me. When people like you they like you in years passed and it’s still the same. I call them god kids now because they’re like my children. I have a young lady who is in Tallahassee, she works in social work, and she’s just like my child! I mean she keeps up with me, we talk once a week and she’s happy doing what she’s doing. So much so that I think she over does it sometimes. I was happy to see her move from an apartment into her own home and I had to kina help her through the problem when her mom passed. That was a difficult time for her and she couldn’t understand why her stepfather after having been so heartbroken and faithful and everything, about six weeks later he was seeing someone. And I said, “Men are different from women, you need to understand that. They have needs, they aren’t used to being on their own. They need companionship and sometimes it’s difficult—it doesn’t mean that he didn’t love your mother and doesn’t still love





your mother.” I think he called her out of the blue last week and they talked a long time and that did an awful lot of helping her to see that just because someone else is in my life doesn’t mean that I don’t love you and didn’t love your mother, but the bond is still there. Let’s see, that’s Esther in Tallahassee, Corrales still keeps in touch with me. She’s in Perry, Georgia but she’s the one we went to visit in Alaska then she moved to California and then from California she wanted to be closer to family. She had a brother who has since died was living in Tampa, but she’s found out she has another brother she didn’t know about in Tampa, Ronny, and they have become close so that works out for her. Let’s see who else is there. There’s [inaudible 1:42:35] the guy who does my yard. He was, I think he got into some trouble or something, I don’t know what happened. When I met him he was about ready to drop out of school because he failed American history three times and he was supposed to graduate and it looked like he was gone fail again and so I went to his teacher and I said, “He’s taken this course three years I think he’s learned something if only by osmosis, so can you please work with him and make sure that he passes cause he needs to get out in the world and make a living and whatever.” You know, failing him would serve him no good, nor the sister or anybody else. So she says, “If he comes to class and really tries.” And he’s a smart kid. So sure enough he went to class and he followed the instructions and then she needed something done and he went out on [inaudible 1:43:30] and they became friends and they still talk about each other today. That friendship is still there. But he did graduate, thank god, and so he’s married now and has one, two children. One of which I’m





wondering if it’s really his, but he and his wife already had a child so they don’t have any children together. They’re at that stage now where I think that’s not important. So Henry’s one of my god children and then the guy back there Frank, he fell in love with the tree back there so I had to find and sell him an acre back there, but I thought it was nice to have someone who was such a handyman that close cause he added the Wilmot to my house and the reason that he did that was because several years after I was into the house I developed a leak and the contractor D.W. Robinson told me to contact [inaudible 1:44:35] and the roof was in the warranty. So I did and [inaudible 1:44:40] recommended this guy and gave me three names and I just chose the first one. It turned out to be Frank and Frank did the roof and did a good job on it and then he wanted to show me his house which he had built from the ground up. I went by and saw that, met his family and everything and I wanted that room built and I asked him to give me a bid on it. He did and I had asked the guy who built my son’s house next door and he had given me one bid and I though, nah, I’ll let Frank do it and he did. He wanted me to buy the supplies and he would do the labor or contract the labor out which I paid for. I think I got the room built for, when we added up everything it was about sixteen-thousand and the quote I had gotten from the contractor was twenty-five or twenty-six. So I think I made out like a bandit on that one and working he saw that tree, and it is a majestic tree! It’s got the branches and everything which he just has propped up and everything. Everybody falls in love with that tree and I figured the best thing to do would be to put it in the hands of someone who really liked it. So I did and when I called, I called him “What can I





do for you Mae?” And I thought oh guys, how fortunate I am to have somebody who can do anything right in my back door! He’s engaged to a nurse and he’s build back that—I hope that Maria will take him up on it and move out here cause she has her own house in Gainesville and she’s, I think works at the VA she’s like a charge nurse or whatever, so she’s doing very well. Let’s see who else is there, there’s Cecilia my little problem child. She’s going up on Monday, I need to call her and see if she wants to ride over when I take you home.

	S:	Thank you so much again! I:	Let’s see.

[Break in recording]



	I:	That always works things out. S:	It does!

	I:	I found that [inaudible 1:47:08]. You know I walk right around and I need a handy cap parking and then all of a sudden there’s one right where I need to go! I just feel very good.

	S:	True.



	I:	What was this survey about?



	S:	It’s just finding out about your life basically. That was mostly it, it’s very focused on like the person, yeah. I know that you mentioned that you have a son, can you talk about raising him?

I:   My son took his life fourteen years ago. He lived next door, he was married and had one daughter who was sixteen at the time and he was in the FBI academy, he was in law enforcement. He was taking that course for law enforcement





officers in [inaudible 1:48:08] and they called him back, it was a question about some money and it was like five or six-thousand dollars I think and he came back and met with these people, he didn’t tell me about it he just came home that weekend which was the weekend before he was supposed to graduate. I knew there was some, well I won’t go into that. I knew there was somebody who was a little upset with him and jealous of him because this person was planning to run for an office and there were people who wanted my son to run for that office and I think it got back to him. So this person, I think it was his position, so he instigated an investigation which turned up this money that supposedly my son had mishandled. I said, “He didn’t need to do that. He had access to my bank he could go on and withdraw a check on my account anytime he wanted to.” And then of course this—but you know things always tend to work out and he said look I can pay the money back and everything. But see, one of the things too, and he may have, he had a very good arrest rate because he knew who to pay off in order to get the information he wanted to get the people that he needed to get off the street. But, I’m not sure what happened but I know this person brought the FDLE person out to my house and they were supposed to explain to me what had happened and I was asking a question which must have hit too close to home on this. “Well you can’t ask him that!” I said, “I didn’t ask you to come out, you said you were coming out to answer questions for me.” And whatever, I said, “Okay, you didn’t have to be here then. You invited yourself here. So if I can’t ask you the questions that I need answers to then you can leave. Last time I remembered I think this house is mine, and paid for, so bye!” He did run for the





office and was not elected and was—well anyway he didn’t have a very good ending. But it had consequences cause the guy who had my insurance called me, I had just had a liver transplant that November or October, November. All this happened in December. January this guy is running for office, my insurance agent calls and asks if I would campaign for him I said, “Are you kidding? I just lost a son, I just came through a very serious operation and you’re asking me to campaign for some guy?” And I almost wanted to say, “Somebody I don’t particularly like and I don’t particularly like you.” So, you know, you get to meet some strange people who have strange motives and you never know. This is the insurance agent who said, “Huh, you can afford to buy a twenty-thousand dollar car.” It was a maxima. I felt like saying, “I don’t know what you pay for your cars, but I got mine for sixteen-thousand. Maybe it’s because I got it through the credit union and they bargain with people.” But I didn’t tell him that, I didn’t even comment on it. Then I had gotten that insurance with this company for so long that I had some zero deductibles which my son was in school, he had a car he needed a car to come back and forth and to work. That zero deductible, when he finally got out and was working and he got several nice cars, the last car he had was a Hummer. A hummer with a zero deductible and he was upset about that. “You need to cut the apron strings.” And I thought, what business of yours is this? I wasn’t paying the insurance it was just still in my name because I was able to get, with the two cars and the house insurance, you know, a savings. I thought, okay. I knew there was some animosity there or something there that just didn’t—it seemed like jealousy or envy, I wasn’t sure what it was. But, he





retired and did not renew my insurance and I was thinking for about almost nine months that I had insurance and I didn’t have any insurance. Then when I tried to renew it they wouldn’t renew cause it had been so long. So I had to go with another insurance. But you know, there are people who for some reason don’t mean you well and they will do everything they can in order to make life difficult for you. I don’t let that worry me. I feel sorry for him. In fact, when things like that happen you have to pray for that person, cause they’ve got some problems. I don’t have a problem he has a problem. Like my neighbor over there, she insists that part of my property belongs to her and I thought—I’ve had the land surveyed A, when I had to finance the house, B, when my son built his house, C, when Frank had to get his property back there, but this was after. She asked me who I had used as a surveyor when I told her whom I had used and I had to use the guy who had surveyed that road out there because surveyors are funny, they don’t wanna go into territory that they don’t know that well. The person that I was going to ask who was one of my parents said, “You need to get”—whatever the guy’s name was I can’t remember now. So I got him and I told her that’s who I used. Well he cost too much so she got a cut-rate one and he came up with a completely different set of lines. I noticed one day I came home and these sticks were in my yard and I didn’t say anything and I thought, “Oh whatever.” So one Sunday, I heard this chainsaw, I looked out and her husband was cutting down this tree on my property, I said, “What are you doing?” “Well my wife said this was her property,” I said, “She did? Tell her possession is nine-tenths of the law. I own it, I’m sitting on it and if she wants to challenge me she better do it in court,





otherwise I’m gonna make problems.” So right now I said, “I got a survey in there that’s certifies, not only is that it’s insured. Because those people aren’t gonna lend me that kind of money to build a house on land they aren’t sure is mine, so you better get the heck off my property.” I said, “Now, if this turns out to be wrong I will be sitting in a nice condo over on the beach cause these people gonna have to pay me cause they certified that this was the way where this property was.” So, she got upset and I mentioned it to the city, the city was laughing, “Oh my god that road’s been there forever. And on my survey it shows that rickety fence out there, back in 1890 something or other where that fence was a marker on this property. There’s people on this property that I got it from for years and years and years. So I keep that survey with that fence in it, I leave that fence out there for a reason. [Laughter] Anyway, the city came in and did a third survey and I never knew what the results of it were because I had gotten off the city’s commission and the city planning board and all of that, I was no longer working with it. I figured I’d give up all those other extra activities. Anyway, Frank was cleaning around one of those trees and she came out and told him that was her tree. And she said, “That road is my road too.” So Frank called the police, I don’t know where I was, maybe I wasn’t here. So anyway, he was telling me later that the police came and he told them what the situation was, when she saw the police she came out and started to come over and the police met her and said, “Ma’am, you need to go back on your property, this is a road, there’s a fence on your property, stay on your property and leave this man alone.” By that time the two neighbors down there, and everybody knows this community, she used to





call the police so much that they wouldn’t come. She called the police one time because she said the kids next door who were her brother’s children, nieces, nephew, had pulled up plants, flowers in her yard. And the police said well, “What do you expect us to do? Fingerprint the flowers or what?” You know? So anyway, she got to the point where when she calls they don’t come. So then she would tell me, could you call them and tell them that people [inaudible1:57:25] they aren’t bothering me, are they bothering you? Well then you call them. But anyway, like I said she had some weird ways so that two guys came along and they were laughing with Frank and they said, “She still claims that this road is hers, now the city in order to pacify her they resurveyed all of that property from there on back and I think they gave her twenty feet on the other side of that to compensate her for whatever. But she still wants to insist that the road is hers and maybe about ten or fifteen feet over my property belongs to her too.” And I thought—I pray for her every night too. But that’s kinda like it. But anyway, anything else?

	S:	Can you tell me why, you were like very passionate about education, even before you went to school. You like went into school before you could go, is there a reason why or is it just something that’s always like—

	I:	I was always told that education was important, my granddaddy just kept hammering that into us, that it was important to get as much education as you can and to always be independent, not to have to depend on somebody else because people will say they love you and do all these things and then when you’re sitting there with a whole bunch of kids and no way to take care of them,





then you have to put up with things that you wouldn’t have to put up with if you were able to take care of yourself. So always make sure you were able to take care of yourself and any children you bring into the world. [Inaudible 1:59:01] They always believed in trying to be better and make things better around you. Not just for yourself, but for other people as well. It doesn’t always work out. I was on the committee that was deciding for this CDGB grants, community development blog grant, BG. One of them to focus on this part of the city which is the most deteriorated and has some of the poorest families. Families that are up in age who own their property which isn’t one of the requirements, but who could make the repayments that they needed to. So they chose this area and they did, they advertised it the notices and everything, and the one lady who’s home has tarps on top of it and rotted in the back [inaudible 2:00:01] and everything. And I said, “Why didn’t you go?” And she said, “My husband didn’t want me to go.” Her husband owns the property. He said that it makes him look like he can’t take care of his family. I said, “Who turns down free money?” I said, “The money that he’s gonna try to spend to fix this place, you could’ve had a completely new house built. Why are you turning this down?” And she said, “You know, you get tired of arguing with people.” So they didn’t apply. You can’t rebuild a house if the people won’t let you do it or won’t at least apply for the free money.

[Phone ringing]



	I:	Hi, Barbara. Okay. [Break in recording]





	S:	Sorry, I guess I have just like one or two more questions. So for this internship there is kind of a focus on truth and reconciliation in Alachua, because the local government wanted to recognize past racial injustices and try and set an example to make reparations, like the appropriate ones and stuff like that. Do you have anything you would like to speak about on that topic?

	I:	[Laughter] Most of the people are dead. Newberry was noted for the lynching that occurred here back in the thirties and people never wanted to talk about it. Or they talked about it in whispers when the people were living. I came here because of my aunt and uncle who were living here and my mother was raised in Lake [inaudible 2:01:42] so anyway, we were close. I had gotten information as to who the people involved were and what had happened, I think I even wrote about it in grad school. I didn’t call any names or anything, but all of the people who were involved did not die of—they died very difficult deaths, let me put it that way. The people who were involved in the lynching and what people also don’t recall is that when the way that these White people knew that this man that they lynched had stolen, I think it was chicken or something that he had stolen from them, was because another Black man had told them. Of course, that Black guy didn’t do too well either. But they came to the house, one of the young men was hidden under the floorboards, the rest of them were taken out into the field and someone says it’s that field down there, Hammock Oaks, they used to call it lynch hammock. And they strung them up on the horses and one of the men started freeing so loudly that I understand it started thundering and lightening.

Some of them were ready to say, “Well maybe this is a sign we don’t need to do





this,” cause one of the women was pregnant. The Black guy who was there said, “No boss, y’all need to go—“ He encouraged them to continue. So for all things, there are people on both sides who are equally at fault and guilty. Again, this is what I was told, so how accurate it is I have no idea, but anyway they went ahead and lynched the people and everything and for a long time Newberry just did not do too well. Stories that people didn’t wanna come here, businesses didn’t wanna settle here and I think it was a cloud that hung over the heads of everybody. But after that there was a period over the years when people said you know that was the past we need to do differently. So when I came back here after my stepmother had died and I was five months pregnant and had split up from my husband cause we had one cardinal rule which is you don’t put your hands on anybody and you don’t get to do that but one time. So anyway, we tried to reconcile, but in the end he thought if he joined the green marine or one of those suicide mission teams I would relent and I didn’t. But anyway, long story short, the people in Newberry, Whites have been very diligent in trying to make up for any past injustices. I’d never seen people go out of their way to do things, to make sure—and these are genuine helping hands. I pray for the people who were so good to me that they made this feel like home when it wasn’t home, and I wouldn’t wanna leave anything, I’ve fallen in love with this place. The mayor, Mrs. [inaudible 2:05:24] Evelyn McCoy who spent most of her life helping people, making sure that the food banks and everything were there for the people and so forth. Um, I think we were one of the first towns to have a Black mayor, Freddie Cormack whose wife I was talking to. When I complained about people wanting





to build a church down there, and I knew it was one of those kind of congregations where they would have meeting late at night would yell and scream, and we sort of said, “There’s no place for them to build a church because they don’t have adequate parking. Where are they gonna park?” So when I brought that up to the mayor she said, “Have you ever thought about being on a planning and zoning commission?” And I said, “No.” And she said, “I have a spot, would you like to?” And my classroom was next to Tom Cowry who was on the planning and zoning commission in Gainesville and we used to talk about it all the time so I felt like I could do as much about planning and zoning as Tom did, and more than anybody at the—so I told her okay and I did and we had a lot to talk about planning and zoning. Then Tom became a member of the North Central Florida planning and zoning committee so I got even more information. So I was on the planning and zoning board for about twenty-five to thirty years. We did a lot in terms of making sure that we had zoning regulations that were realistic, but that would encourage business to come and locate in certain places, but not interfere with residential areas or whatever. I feel real good about those years. Then, right after I retired, Freddy was mayor and he asked me would I fun for the city commission? And I said, “Uh.” He said, “You don’t even have to do anything, just agree and I’ll do all the campaigning for you.” And I thought, “Okay.” And sure enough he did and I was elected to the city commission, I served two terms, and I enjoyed that too because right after I got on there when you know there would be a big blowout, one of those developers the people who clean up after those things, landfill whatever. They wanted to





start a landfill out there. We were making newspapers because the citizens opposed it and they said that there shouldn’t be a landfill in this area because of the possible pollution to the aquifer etcetera, etcetera. They were insisting that we either support them or we needed to resign or they were gonna vote us out of office and everything. Every meeting was contentious and so forth. So we finally went to arbitration and finally won that and so it had cost us a considerable amount in legal fees, but it needs to be won out and it was worth it. So that problem was solved and then we got the reputation for being a kind of a very strict area to be in and so when they were getting ready to build this middle income housing development right up the street there, they came on kind of like bended knees to make sure they met all the requirements and everything and we approved it, but with some restrictions and so forth and everything. I think from that point on they said we’re reasonable, but we also are insistent that you have certain standards in safeguard. Now, we turned down one housing development that they sent instead up to Alachua because of the design of it. They had only one door in and one door out which nobody in their right minds would accept and we told them they’d have to change their plans and where they were gonna put it was an area which would’ve been the wrong place at the time because that might’ve been needed for expansion of the school up there, the middle school.

We got called a bunch of dirty names for turning that one down, in fact, that went all the way up to Washington and they were gonna sue us and everything, but they changed administrations fortunately and that one fell through and they built it in Alachua. But we didn’t want something that was not going to be safe. I don’t





know whether they changed the design plans, I hope that they have more than one way in and one way out, can you imagine having to take your garbage out the front door?

S:   Unh-uh



	I:	Can you imagine the safety concerns that there would be? And we didn’t need it at that time, because we didn’t wanna bring—and it was gonna be subsidized housing—we already had a project on this side of town and one on the other side of town and they’re more than full. It’s adequate for the needs of this community, if you put more in then you’re gonna have to import people in order to fill them, and we didn’t wanna do that. So, if you will notice most of these subdivisions are filled with policemen and nurses and people in high stress jobs in Gainesville, because when they get off work and one policeman told me, “I don’t wanna hear sirens and ambulances and worry about I’m gonna be running into people that I had just arrested and all that kind of, when I come home I wanna relax and this is a peaceful, relaxing, and safe community.” Because in any subdivision you don’t know whose home you’re breaking into. You might me breaking into a policeman’s home, there are at least seven or eight, maybe more police cars at any given time considering most of them are working two or three shifts in any one of these subdivisions that you go into. Not to mention that one of the developers told me that one nurse from Shand’s had bought a house and when the other nurses found out about it then he had just about the whole subdivision made up of people who work at Shand’s. So there are a lot of people who just want peace and quiet, low taxes, and a voice in government, and you can get





that here. Now, they were gonna use the farm out here to bring us the fair. Alachua county fair. Most of the people who lived in the subdivision had said, “You have a lot of criminal elements that come in when they bring in those midway shows and so forth.” And they opposed it. So when the city commission met at the school, they turned out in fours. And they had such good arguments as to why they were opposed to having the fair, that the two city commissioners that came, one left early and one left not too long after that. Because they saw that it was gonna be a losing battle, the people did not want it and you have to listen to the people. When there’s definite arguments as to why you shouldn’t put it out there. They said it’s too far from everything and blah, blah, blah. So instead of having a fair we’re gonna have USDA headquarters out there, which is something a lot more desirable. Those people don’t have to worry about their property being vandalized by people who are coming for something for the wrong reasons whatsoever. So, I think we are protective of our borders of the people who come in here, and they like that. They know that if they go down in numbers, they’ll be heard.

	S:	Is there anything that I didn’t ask about that you would like to talk about?



	I:	And the Black community works together too. There was a time when police were coming in and we knew that we had a lot of drugs and we want the drugs out, but at the same time they were harassing people. They were jaywalking on the main street down there in the Black neighborhood and so it got to be so ridiculous and then, I think, the manager of the day care husband had bought her a nice car and they were following her around because I guess they thought,





“How could she afford this car and she works over there?” She felt it was just intimidation and so we finally set up a meeting with Sadie Darnell and the commission and it was full and people were voicing incidents that had happened to them and so forth and so on, and I think they had even brought somebody from Tallahassee. And one thing about it, people don’t mind telling you what they want you to know when they are unhappy. Of course, all meetings are recorded and everything and they set up a system where you could go and talk to people individually after the meeting the next day and the day after if you wanted to, if you didn’t feel you had been heard or you wanted to go more into detail. And it stopped. It stopped so much so that we felt they were afraid to come here. We said, wait a minute, we had to go back and say, “Look, we don’t want you intimidating us, but at the same time we need you to be visible and we need you to serve the community. Just don’t harass people over little petty things”

	S:	Right.



	I:	So it had gotten back to where okay they’re visible now. That was what about six or seven years ago, so that situation. You know, whenever the need arises they will answer the call.

	S:	So is there no need now? Is it pretty good?



	I:	Oh yeah, oh yeah, yeah. In fact, I like the fact when my mom went off one day I had waited, cause I knew that something was wrong and nobody called from the monitoring service and so I had gone to the post office and when I came back there were two police cars in my yard and I said, “Well what’s going on?” They said “Well your alarm went off.” I said, “Oh, I waited around for about ten or





fifteen minutes and nobody called so I figured that maybe it was so short that they weren’t gonna respond to it.” So they said, “Well it looks like your house is pretty secure.” I said, “Yeah, I have just about every protection service there is so I think yeah, I’m secure.” And then I said, “Nobody’s gonna wanna break in because they know that I have my permit to carry a concealed weapon, so. And they know I wouldn’t hesitate to use it.” So we started talking and that’s when one of them told me why he was living out here, because he liked the peace and quiet. And I said, “Well great.” So that’s it, we know each other, we work together for unity. I understand they just had a bus trip to Birmingham to visit the Black history area in that and it was a mixed trip that went. One of the churches in, I think, some group sponsored it and they were very happy and had a very good trip. Then the minister at the United Methodist Church fixes, personally, dinner herself and brings it over to the community center. This one is named for Freddy [inaudible 2:17:23] the Black mayor and Freddy used to do everything, make sure we had the grants to come in, people got the houses, they got the food, he would even give it out, he was just a first-class model servant of the people. I’m glad they named that after him. But the other point is MLK and she takes food out there cause she said the lord put it on her hard, that she wanted to have a place where her members and the community could just sit down and eat and talk. And I thought, “That’s a good idea.”

	S:	I think, if you don’t have anything more to say that’s it. I:	Let’s go!

	S:	Thank you!





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Olivia Lafuente, September 6, 2019 Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, March 16, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, March 26, 2021