AAHP 140; Ashby; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 140 Michael Ashby African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Candace Ellis and Evan Ewing on September 4, 2010 25 minutes | 15 pages



Abstract: This interview was conducted at the 2010 Black Alumni Weekend at the University of Florida. Michael Ashby’s parents immigrated from the Bahamas in the 1940s to Cleveland, Ohio. He matriculated to UF in 1982, and describes the transition that he experienced and how and why he chose UF. He enjoyed math and science classes but struggled with Liberal Arts, and then went into a career as a nuclear engineer. He offers advice to any future incoming students, and describes the struggles he underwent to succeed as a student—including living for four days in the UF Shands Hospital Library because he and his roommate couldn’t afford to turn on the electricity.



[Keywords: African American History; University of Florida]



















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 140

Interviewee: Michael Ashby

Interviewer: Candice Ellis and Evan Ewing Date: September 4, 2010



CE:  This is Candice Ellis with Evan Ewing and Michael Ashby on September 4, 2010. You had mentioned that you were born and raised in Cleveland. When were you born, if you don’t mind?

A:   Yeah, no problem. October 2, 1964.



	CE:	Can you describe your family to me? What your parents did, if you had any siblings.

	A:	My parents are both from the Bahamas. They actually immigrated to the United States back in 1948. My mom was actually a dressmaker and did a lot of dresses for debutantes in Cleveland. My dad actually started off as an elevator operator and then he got on the police force.

	CE:	Oh great. How long was he on the police force for? A:	Around twenty years.

	CE:	Oh wow. And this was all in Cleveland, Ohio. Did you have any siblings?



	A:	Yes, I have an older brother and I have a younger sister who also attended the University of Florida.

	CE:	They both went to the University of Florida?



	A:	Just my sister. My brother went to Kent State up in Cleveland. CE:	Alright, what do they do now?

	A:	My brother actually works for TSA security in Orlando, Florida. My sister was a long time Walt Disney Word executive and now she supports her family.

	CE:	You get free tickets to Disney World? A:	Well she’s not there any longer.





CE:  I bet I would have gotten so tired of like Disney World. [Laughter]



EE:  I heard great things about working at Disney. They really treat you well.



A:  Actually I was a part of MKCP Program, they have a college program and so I did that for a couple of summers. It was pretty neat. In fact, Wesley Snipes, the actor he was in the same division as me. In transportation. [Laughter]

CE:  Did you meet him?



A:   Oh yeah, I met him, knew him. We both were in transportation. It was right before he started getting into acting got into a music video that started it.

CE:  What were your early schooling years like before you came to UF?



	A:	Actually, Cleveland has a very good educational system. It’s one of tops in the country. I had a very good, very strong background in science and math. I did a lot of science and math. I wanted to go into engineering, actually nuclear engineering in the seventh grade.

	CE:	So you knew by the seventh grade?



	A:	By the seventh grade. I had a professor in middle school who was an engineer and he taught physics. And he talked a lot.

	EE:	In seventh grade?



	A:	In seventh grade, yup. We had physics and he talked a lot about the splitting of the atom. The whole thing about the atom and neutron just fascinated me. I knew right then I was going to be a nuclear engineer.

	EE:	What was the name of the school you went to?



	A:	Cleveland Heights High School. Well that was the high school. Monticello was the middle school.





	CE:	Seventh grade. Were your parents really big on education?



	A:	I think from the islands, being from the Bahamas that’s just kind of a thing that you work hard, study hard, and do very well. My mom was very proactive. She was always at the school if anything. Then I had good teachers, too that really pushed me. I could always look to my one teacher in physics and I also looked to a math teacher I had. I remember one time he had a exam. All of his exams would be a hundred but it would be like ten points extra credit. I got a hundred and five and he called my mom. [Laughter] He said I could do better.

	CE:	This was the math teacher?



	A:	Yeah. If I didn’t ace any of his exams he’s like, come on.



	CE:	I know you had your physics teacher in seventh grade, when did you have the math teacher?

	A:	The math teacher was in high school. CE:	Math minded people. I just don’t get it.

	A:	Well actually math and science was my easiest courses. Here at the University of Florida math, science, thermal, all the nuclear courses very easy. Everybody always ask me, “What was the most difficult course at the University of Florida?” I say, “Greek Mythology,” which is supposedly the easiest course in the University of Florida. That was my hardest. That and English. I always tell people if it was science or math, straight A’s. Liberal arts, struggled. English struggled, still struggling today.

	EE:	I had to give up my math course. I thought I was going to be a computer engineer. Calculus three I was like eh.





	A:	Wow. See those courses were just it was very easy for me. CE:	That’s incredible. When did you start at UF?

	A:	1982.



	CE:	Did you like Gainesville? Was it a big transition?



	A:	Initially, because my parents still lived in Cleveland. My whole family lived there, they moved down to Orlando in my junior year. The first year was kind of a challenge. Plus I had a girlfriend at the time in Cleveland so doing all that. I went back to Cleveland like five times my first year. So it was just trying to transition. Also the University of Florida campus is so big and so spread out you can almost get lost. Just kind of coming in it was like wow I’m in a new environment and basically everything I do is based on my decisions with no instructions. So no one tells you what time to do something.

	CE:	To go to bed or do your homework.



	A:	So you have to be very self-disciplined.



	CE:	How did you choose UF? Had you applied other places?



	A:	Actually I applied to Ohio State, University of Florida, and Georgia Tech. So it was between those three. Ohio State I pretty much knew I was done with the snow so I knew I was coming south. So I said it was either Georgia Tech or UF. Georgia Tech, when I got there it just seemed like it was more intense. It was a more intense engineering program. So I was like, I think UF is a better environment.

	CE:	Sunny Florida. Did you live on campus your first couple years?





	A:	Yeah. I lived on campus. I can’t remember the halls it’s been so many years. I also walked onto the football team as well. That was another challenge was doing that my freshman year.

	CE:	Oh wow. That must have been difficult. A:	That and engineering.

	EE:	What was your walk on experience?



	MA:	It was very tough. It was under Coach Pell, I mean back then it was a lot of—just in terms of doing well in school and doing well in football.

	CE:	Balancing a lot, first year going back to Ohio and your girlfriend.



	A:	Right. One thing I learned was that if you really want to do something you just have to work very hard. You have to work harder than everybody else. In high school everything was easy, everything was given to me. I didn’t have to study, I could stay ahead. Here I really had to put in the time. You have to put in the time. Literally there would be nights that I’m up ‘til one in the morning and I could hear people partying, having fun outside, everyone’s having a great time. Even on the weekends there were times I kept saying to myself well they’re having fun, now I’ll have fun later.

	CE:	That’s a great attitude. So pretty much your entire academic career is consumed with the academic aspect of it?

	A:	Yeah, that and football. That was it.



	EE:	Did you play football in high school? What position?



	A:	I played tight end and receiver. When I came here I was receiver.





	CE:	That was probably a lot of fun. Were you treated like a star because you were a football player?

	A:	Yeah. I think back then it was almost a little bit of entitlement. CE:	Were you like super popular?

	A:	Yeah I think in my classes and everything somewhat. It was pretty neat. It was a great experience. College I think is the best experience of your life. I think looking back on it, I took for granted what I had and really the opportunities that I had.

You really don’t understand everything until you step back and your parents tell you things. Then you’re like oh okay come on mom, but it really is true. You don’t see that until you look back thirty years later and you say if I was to do that over there’s no reason why I shouldn’t have aced every class. What did I put into it?

What did I do? How can I do everything better?



	CE:	There are always going to be those things to look back on. But it sounds like you probably did pretty well there. What kind of engineering did you do?

	A:	I went into Nuclear Engineering. After I graduated here I went to work for Weston House in Augusta, Georgia. I worked at the Savannah River site and worked mainly in nuclear operations so actually in nuclear plants. Did that for around thirteen years. I actually was a manager of one of the facilities at the site. From there I started getting into recruitment. I knew a lot of engineers, knew a lot of people. A lot of different shutdowns and start-ups; I would manage that whole aspect. I started hiring a lot of people. It’s very difficult to find talent in the nuclear industry so really I went from that to straight recruiting for them.





	CE:	You’re probably in high demand just with that degree. That’s great to have that kind of job security right out of college.

	A:	Actually about eight years ago I transitioned from nuclear to oil and gas.



Currently I work for Shell Oil. I do the same thing for the oil and gas industry. I recruit top engineers, top executives for Shell Oil in Houston.

	EE:	So you’re a coordinator?



	A:	I’m actually a Senior Recruiter. Just about any top level job within Shell I recruit for, recruit talent. It’s a lot of fun. So going from engineering and so now I very rarely do any engineering, now it’s all about people.

	CE:	You just have to pick out the talent.



	A:	So it’s a lot better. In a reactor that’s ten foot thick concrete walls, there’s no windows, and you’re in that reactor the whole time and that’s your life. Back then, twelve hour shifts. So literally there may be a crew of ten people in the reactor and that’s your interaction all day. I did that for thirteen years. Same crew, talked to the same people.

	CE:	Are you still friends with them?



	A:	Oh yeah. But now it’s totally different because now I work downtown Houston, thousands of people you interact with. I’m on the phone constantly with people. In the reactor I might have said ten words all day and today I might have ten minutes of non-talk. [Laughter]

	CE:	Going back to your time at UF, were you involved in anything besides football?



Did you join any student clubs or anything?





	A:	No, actually like I said that was it. I was fairly busy. I attended a church, Church of Christ and that was about it, between church and football.

	EE:	Where is the church located? A:	I believe it’s off of thirty-fourth. EE:	Is it still there?

	A:	I don’t know. When I was here I said I would see if it’s still here or not. I know they’ve expanded the different areas, I kind of saw they expanded the different areas and different things.

	CE:	Probably by now. There’s so much construction here.



	A:	They were a pretty big church with students. It was kind of a very close-knit church with the kids and everything.

	CE:	Did you have any professor mentors at UF who you remember like you do for high school?

	A:	No, not really. I think UF like I said especially your first few years most of your classes are so big and massive.

	CE:	Right, how are you going to get close to your professors?



	A:	Even when I got into my pure engineering and nuclear courses, I knew the professors and everything and worked on projects but it was not like high school.

	EE:	Other than football and work did you have any small hobbies?



A:   I think outside of that maybe cooking. I did used to do a lot of cooking so a lot of the guys we always used to hang out because I cooked food. I could make food for about ten, fifteen people out of nothing.

EE:  What was it like to be a part of the football crowd and society at that time?





	CE:	Were you guys like presented on the stage at Gator Growl?



	A:	Yeah, all the little things like that, after the games you go out. I mean it was an experience. I look back now and I see a lot of the guys today and it’s like man how time flies. Now they have kids that are getting into college. So it’s kind of interesting just to see that.

	CE:	Do you have any kids?



	A:	I’ve got one three year old so I’m just getting started. CE:	Maybe not quite yet ready for UF. One day.

	A:	Yeah, but he’ll be here. His father-in-law’s a head football coach, too so football’s in his genes. Like I said, at UF, I think that for any person coming into the school you have to really be very self-disciplined and you have to really just do the task in front of you. In front of you there’s going to be a lot of challenges. There’s going to be a lot of times when you just want to give up. Just things like the system with registering, class. I’m not sure if it’s easier today.

	CE:	So bureaucratic. Computers have probably really improved.



	EE:	What was the registration process like? Did you all have to crowd into one building on one day?

	A:	Basically, and a long line. You normally waited for two, three hours in the heat. CE:	Did you get perks though, as a football player? I would have demanded that.

	A:	A couple of years they actually scheduled it for me. So that was fantastic. Now I think it’s a lot easier, but back then you had to go along the process. Then even after football, too, just in terms of financial aid and dealing with the financial aid department. There’s a lot of red tape, you have to go through red tape and it can





be very frustrating. I’d see people when they go through all the red tape and all the different things. Even the little things like someone who’s dealing with an apartment, most kids haven’t done that before.

	CE:	Remembering to pay rent.



	A:	Doing all of that. So I can tell stories, because ever since I was nine years old I never borrowed a dime from my parents. I’ve always had some way of making money since I was a young kid. When I got to UF there was times financially where I just struggled, but I would never tell my parents. Literally I can think of incidences that really shaped me as a person. One was that a buddy of mine, we moved into an apartment, and our finances were very low at the time. We put our security deposit down and everything, and the place had fleas. So we were like, “We can’t stay here. We got to find someplace else.” So literally at the same time, too—so we had to move to another place. We moved to another apartment, we barely had enough money to down payment on that. We were just flat broke. We couldn’t even turn on the electricity. For the first week we didn’t even have electricity. We actually stayed at Shands Hospital in the library. We spent like four days in the library until we were able to get our electricity. We had pillows, books. People would pass us by and, “Boy they are very dedicated to studying.” Little did people know, literally we spent four days in Shands. Slept there, everything ‘cause it was too hot to stay in our apartment. I think that incident really shaped me. Another incident is there’s this place called Labor Force. Labor Force is where you can go in the morning and they’ll put you to work. It’s for people who might be coming off felonies or something. The thing is they’ll pay





you right there. You work a whole day and they give you like twenty two dollars. In the off time just for me to make a little bit of change, I’d said, “Okay I’ll go on this Labor Force.” Some of the jobs they would put you on might be garbage detail, it might be digging a pit. So we’re digging this pit, Westside of Gainesville and it’s a crew of like ten people. It’s a hundred and ten degrees and we’re digging. They could bring a bulldozer in and knock it out right away but it’s cheaper to have us. I’ll always remember there was a guy who was like seventy years old and he’s there digging with us. I’m like, “What is this guy doing here at seventy in a hundred and ten degree heat digging?” So we dig. Every two hours we get like a five minute break, but he’d keep digging. He’d keep digging during the break. Another break, he’d keep digging. All day long this guy would not take a break. Finally a guy said to him, “Old man what’s going on? Every time we take a break you just keep digging. Are you trying to stand us up or something?” He said, “Young man if I stop digging I’ll never be able to start again.” I mean just shivers went down my spine when he said that. I would always remember that.

There would be times I’d be dead tired, you know okay I’ve got to study. And I’d always remember that old man saying that. I’d say there’s no way I’m going to be that old man at seventy. There’s no way I’m going to be digging a ditch at seventy. I’ve got to get in these books. It stuck with me that I’ve got to study. I’ve got to make things happen. I kept thinking about that old man.

	CE:	That’s incredible. Were you there on any kind of athletic scholarship? A:	No. I paid my own way the whole time.

	CE:	Did you have loans and stuff?





	A:	Yeah I had loans. I had a little bit with the Pell Grant as well. Then also I worked at Jiffy Food Stores at night way up in Alachua. That was another one, too.

	CE:	You were busy. You had a full plate.



	A:	If you can get through college, you can get through anything. [Laughter] College prepares you for life. I can tell you there are those times when you’re living out of Shands. If you can go through that, you can go through anything.

	CE:	Did you have any girlfriends while you were in school?



	A:	I had one that was fairly serious. Outside of that, once again, those are decisions that you have to kind of make. I went out a lot, but I also tried to date a lot more in groups where it was a little bit more—not as serious. Guys just kind of went out in groups and had group activities. Lot of fun activities, too. Really it wasn’t until around my senior year that I started getting more serious about someone.

	CE:	Gets a little expensive, too.



	A:	Exactly. She was from St. Pete, so just trying to travel to St. Pete. She was here too at the University of Florida.

	CE:	Putting yourself through school that’s incredible.



	A:	It’s tough. Once again if you want to play then you can play, but if you’re really serious about school and your education you’ve gotta go to work. I can tell you that it’s better to go to work now so you have opportunities later. As a recruiter literally we’re searching for talent, looking for people. The people that really have the goods stand out. If you can work hard and make it happen in college, that’s going to show your performance in the real world. Some people never want to grow up and they find themselves struggling in terms of earning a living and just





natural day to day. If you can work hard, if you can be disciplined, if you can really do what’s in front of you, it’s going to really serve you later on in life. So the University of Florida really—what it gave me was it gave me the opportunity to actually study, graduate. It gave me the opportunity to be disciplined. It gave me the opportunity to work hard. Then I was able to take that into corporate America. Most people don’t take advantage of that and say, “Well I’m going to do as little as I can and hopefully slide out.” Then they do the same thing in corporate America. But if you’re really determined and work hard, it’s going to show. Most people don’t see that, but employers can tell.

	CE:	See it’s your job to see that. Do you get a lot of kids just graduated?



	A:	Yeah. Once again, you can tell the ones that really had to work hard and you can tell the other ones who just got by.

	EE:	What do you look for exactly? Just out of my own curiosity.



	A:	We look for every skill pool. Finance, that’s a big one. Mainly for me, a lot of the—so now I do a lot of trading as well, so trading IT people as well, engineers, people like geophysicists, anybody with like chemical engineering, pretty big, any type of senior level. We also have things like a downstream, so sales, business development, people that can go out and sell the different oil products. You name it, we have it. You name it, we hire. Generally we’re looking for the best of the best, the top of the top. Shell is pulling from the best talent around. Now, just things like GPAs. If someone doesn’t have a 3.4. It’s very difficult. Then there’s a testing process, interview process. Once again, the people who kind of slide through in college when they get to that interview stage they’re probably going to





slide through that interview. It’s very intense. We have what’s call a Shell recruitment day. It’s a ten hour interview. You’re there, and you will be exposed. The people that make it through, really, and Shell is a very people oriented company, it’s a great company to work for, one of the best actually. The people that get through that system, they’re very well rounded.

	EE:	Do you do the stress interview? A:	[Laughter] Yeah.

	CE:	The ten hour one.



	A:	I conduct behavioral interviews.



	CE:	That’s pretty neat. Sit them down in the chair and like circle the chair in silence for a couple of minutes.

	A:	We don’t beat them up. Sometimes you can tell some people are struggling. CE:	Well you want the best of the best.

	A:	Right. My goal is to always make them feel comfortable and hopefully bring the best out of them and get the interview that way. It’s fun, I love it. I meet people all day.

	CE:	Okay well is there anything you would like to add, any closing remarks? I don’t want to keep you from the celebration for too long.

	A:	One thing to add, I’ve been away from the campus for a very long time. I’m getting older, having a three year old you start reflecting on hey, what can I do? Where can I be a part? A big push for me to come this year was really being able to reach out and mentor and hopefully encourage younger kids, “Hey you can make it, you can do it. It’s going to be tough. I’ve been there, just keep going.” I





had a friend of mine who was very close to graduating and just because of circumstances he ended up quitting. He’s doing pretty well today, but still I know that if we had to do it all over again he could have finished and he could have done it. I think sometimes you just need that one other person to just be in your corner saying, “Hey keep going. You can do it.” I think that’s been a big thing for me is what I can do to really reach back and hopefully encourage somebody even if it’s just telling them, “Hey keep going. Keep making it happen. Go after your dreams. Don’t let the little things stand in the way.”

	CE:	That’s great. Thank you so much for your time. A:	All right. Thank you all, I appreciate it.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Andre Everette, April 22, 2011



	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, October 25, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019