AAHP 617; Sims; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 617 Marion Redden Sims 8-1-2018 Interviewed by Julian Valdivia on August 1, 2018 76 minutes | 41 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Fort Myers native Marion Redden Sims shares her life story with interviewer Julian Valdivia. She was born in 1945 as one of the five daughters of Archie and Bertha Redden, who worked as a roofer and domestic respectively. She began attending school at Dunbar Elementary and graduated from Dunbar High School in 1963, where she was a cheerleader. Her family became involved with the Civil Rights Movement through their membership in Friendship Baptist Church, a church known for organizing anti-segregation protests and sit-ins in the community. After graduating high school, Sims attended Tennessee A&I University, where she earned a bachelor’s degree in nutrition with the goal of becoming a hospital dietician. She attended a year- long internship at the Tuskegee Institute in Alabama, after which she joined the Air Force to work in hospital dietetics. After leaving the service, she attempted to get a job at a hospital in Naples, Florida, but was turned down and instead decided to open a small business. While back in Fort Myers, she re-engaged with the Civil Rights Movement through Friendship Baptist Church under Reverend Isadore Edwards, participating in demonstrations against racial discrimination. She eventually landed a job assistant director of the food service department at Sarasota Memorial Hospital, where she remained for over twenty years, becoming director of the department. She retired after she felt called into the ministry and became ordained under the Christian Methodist Episcopal denomination.



Keywords: [Fort Myers, Lee County, civil rights, segregation, integration, military, Air Force, Tuskegee Institute, HBCU, CME church, NAACP, healthcare, minister]



AAHP 617

Interviewee: Marion Redden Sims Interviewer: Julian Valdivia

Date: August 1, 2018







	V:	This is Julian Valdivia, with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. I’m sitting today in Roberto Clemente Park, at the Lee County Black History Society, having a conversation with?

	S:	Marion Anderson Redden Sims.



	V:	Alright. Marion, thank you for sitting here today and talking with me. The first thing I want to ask for the ease of the transcriber is how do you spell your name?

	S:	M-A-R-I-O-N Anderson A-N-D-E-R-S-O-N Redden R-E-D-D-E-N Sims S-I-M-S.



	V:	Alright. And what year were you born? S:	[Laughter] 1945.

	V:	Okay. And were you born in the city of Fort Myers or elsewhere? S:	Yes, here in Fort Myers at Jones-Walker Hospital.

	V:	Oh okay.



	S:	[Laughter]



	V:	See that’s interesting. Most people I talk to who were born at this time were born to a mid-wife, still.

	S:	Oh, no. I was born at Jones-Walker, that was the hospital for Blacks, and I live right now one block over from where I was born.





	V:	Oh, okay. And do you live by the — isn’t that where the Tony’s also live near, or no?

	S:	No, they live over across at— well not Anderson— Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. But they grew up over here. We grew up together. Yeah, we were neighbors. And when we were growing up, like we were in school.

	V:	I remember. I know one of the couples I interviewed, they were like, “Oh yeah we live right across the street from Jones-Walker.”

	S:	Right [Laughter]



	V:	Alright. So, I want to ask then, who are your parents? S:	Archie and Bertha Redden.

	V:	And what was your mother’s maiden name? S:	Woodberry.

	V:	Okay. And Woodberry being wood and berry? S:	Uh-huh. And that’s with a B-E-R-R-Y.

	V:	B-E-R-R-Y. Okay. And what did your parents do for a living? S:	My father was a full-time roofer.

	V:	Okay.



	S:	Mmhm. And my mother was really basically domestic when she did work, but most of the time she was a housewife. She was definitely going to raise her own children.





	V:	And you said children, do you have brothers and sisters? S:	I had no brothers, but I did have five sisters.

	V:	Oh wow! [Laughter] Big family of girls. S:	[Laughter]

	V:	Okay. And so your father, did he work independently or did he work through a company?

	S:	No, he worked through Lee County Roofing Company, and then subsequently



Curia Roofing Companies.



	V:	Okay. And where did you start going to school when you were a kid? S:	Here at Dunbar Elementary.

	V:	Okay.



	S:	And Dunbar High School. Graduated in 1963.



	V:	Alright, [19]63. I’m just taking notes. And so when you were growing up then, what kind of extracurricular activities did you and your sisters and friends do around here?

	S:	Basically we were cheerleaders, number one. My three older sisters were cheerleaders and of course when it got to me, the director of the cheerleaders insisted that I was going to be a cheerleader, but I didn’t want to. But it seems that she thought that it was in our blood. Yeah. We were cheerleaders, most of us, and my baby sister was born a little bit later so she was pretty much [sighs]…





well, I can’t think of the year that they integrated the schools back in [19]69, so that’s when she had to go out to Riverdale.

	V:	So besides being a cheerleader, were there any other things you did? Did you visit places like Bunche Beach and places like that?

	S:	Yes, we definitely went to Bunche Beach often, [inaudible 4:29]. No, for most of the major holidays, that was the place to be.

	V:	Yes.



	S:	So yes, we spent a lot of time out there at Bunche Beach and even later on when I enjoyed fishing, because of the mangroves out there, you know, there was good red fish and a lot of good fish to be caught. So yeah, those were activities that I really enjoyed back there, yeah.

	V:	Okay. And so you told me before that you were extremely involved with Civil Rights here. And so I want to know growing up, was there anything that influenced you to work with your community in Civil Rights and things like that?

	S:	My mother was always very active with the PTA. As a matter of fact, we were the ones— she was the one that committed us, her family— to prepare candied apples for every home football game. Yes, and we won’t ever forget that because back there in those days, you know, you didn’t have sticks for the apples. You had to go and cut [inaudible 5:37] okay, I wanted to make our own sticks. And then every football game that was home, we knew that once we got home for school, it was gonna be about doing those to five hundred candied apples for the game that night. So my mother was very involved in the community, and





especially in the school, and our church especially, and this is how we got so involved with the Civil Rights, because we were members of Friendship Missionary Baptist Church, when the Reverend [inaudible 6:09] became pastor there.

	V:	Okay. And I haven’t learned a lot about Reverend Edwards here. Can you tell me how he came here to Fort Myers?

	S:	Well, he was up in Jacksonville, and when the pastor that had been there thirty years, Revered Eli Hamilton, had to resign, and they started interviewing people, and of course the president of a national Baptist convention of America was one of the reverend— is superiors up in Jacksonville. So it was through the convention that they referred people to us, and Reverend Edwards was one of those people that they referred for the job of pastoring Friendship Missionary Baptist Church.

	V:	And Eli Hamilton, wasn’t he the one who helped build the building that is Friendship Baptist today?

	S:	Yes, oh yes, definitely! Absolutely! And his daughter Bernadette Hamilton Billips



back in Fort Myers has her music studio. Yeah, a lot of rich history.



	V:	Actually, I always wondered, because whenever I pass by, I can see the glass cross. Do you know who designed the building, or?

	S:	I don’t remember who designed it, but it should be on the cornerstone back there.



I just remember that when we marched from the old building off of Orange of



Grandford, over to the new building. It was because we were hosting the state





convention. The state Baptist convention. And we were so excited. Now I can’t even remember the grade I was in then, but it was in elementary [Laughter] Gosh. And I think maybe the name of the architect may be on the cornerstone, but I don’t recall who it was, but I know everybody was excited because it was the first two-story building out here, that was in the form of a church. It’s still the only church two-story building, yeah, come to think of it, yes.

	V:	Interesting. And you said they had a Baptist — or, they had one of the Baptist conventions down here. Did that ever attract any trouble or anything like that? Because it seems like — I mean, when people get organized, that’s normally when—

	S:	No, no. Because it was common back, the church community was really, very, tight-knitted community. And very supportive of the whole community, and based on the leadership of the churches, I would say that they did a good job back there in those days, because they would definitely reach out to help people, and that’s when we really were a community.

	V:	Yeah. Like everyone knew each other’s neighbors. S:	Yeah, everybody knew everybody, yes, absolutely.

	V:	Alright. And so, what did you start doing immediately when you got out of high school then? Or, when you graduated high school.

	S:	When I graduated from high school, I went to Tennessee, and then it was Tennessee A&I University in Asheville. And I studied in foods and nutrition, got my bachelor’s degree in foods and nutrition, and because I wanted to do hospital





dietetics, I had to do a one-year post-graduate internship, so I went to Tuskegee Institute in Alabama to do that one year graduate internship, and then from there, went immediately into the Air Force, I had already gotten a commission as an officer in the Air Force to do hospital dietetics. And before I started my internship, and I had to do that because they offered a stipend, that you got paid the salary of a second Lieutenant. They commissioned you before you started your internship. Most of the dietetic internships under the American Dietetic Association did not offer stipends. And the idea of having to tell my parents I had to go to school for one more year, when they had supported me for four years [Laughter], it was just horrific. I thought, “How am I going to tell them that I gotta go another year [Laughter], oh gosh!” So here, the military was looking for — they had a need for dieticians. And so they had a program where in they went on the college campuses and tried to talk, and recruit, and they weren’t successful in recruiting me because it did afford me to have money for that post-graduate internship there. And all I had to was pay them three years of like, the duty- service.

	V:	Um-hm. And I understand that during all of this, did you expect to come back to Fort Myers or at all?

	S:	No. No, no, no, no, no. Most of us, when we were growing up here, we dreamed of leaving, not just Fort Myers, Florida, okay. And so, we were always planning where we were wanting to live in the country, because we knew that the opportunities were so limited for African Americans, especially in any profession. And so, no, we did not plan to really think about even coming back here. Very





little for young people to really do. Outside of the community activities and socialization. And so, no, we were excited, and I was excited to even to have made the decision to go into the Air Force and so I got stationed at Andrews Air Force base for my six months residency that I had to do once I finished my internship. And I enjoyed that, and then I was able to meet a lot of important people that definitely covered me during my military time, and so it was nice. [Laughter] It was a very good, rewarding experience [Laughter].

	V:	So why come back then?



	S:	I only came back because after getting out of the military, I came back in hopes of really getting a job at Naples Community Hospital, because they had been advertising for a dietician for over a year. And I thought, “Well maybe God is just saving that job for me.” You know? So when I got out of the service and I can really be close to home, and not that far away, and sure enough when I got out and went and applied for the job, I was immediately ushered into the president’s office who informed me that they would not be hiring me [Laughter] And I thought, “Oh boy here we go, this is why I know I’m not to be down here.” [Laughter] And I thought, “Okay. Let me see if I can hang in here,” because I want to be home a little bit longer with my parents, and I accepted a job with the city. It was under their rehab program, they got a rehab program. Reverend Edwards was the one who was implementing them getting me that job, but I wasn’t —no, really going to tolerate that, having gone to school for five years, you know.

	V:	And having been in the Air Force and things like that.





	S:	Right. Yes. But I did open up a business here on MLK, back then it was a [inaudible 14:10] thinking about maybe if I go into business, I can hang around a little bit more and be more involved in the Civil Rights struggle even at that point in time. The years of college during the summer is when we did most of the demonstrations for integration under the leadership of Reverend Edwards, who had become the president for the NAACP, and also being pastor of our church. So it was the young people that were unafraid to really support him. And I understood that even then, that most of the adults had to worry about maintaining their livelihood, their jobs and all. So, yeah. It was the young people that supported Reverend Edwards and he used Friendship Missionary Baptist Church to host really all those meetings, and even trainings for us before we went out to march and demonstrate and [sighs], and we got it done. Yeah, doors started opening, and they had to, because he was not going to back down, and he had the support of Marvin Davies, at the time, who had become the field secretary for the state of Florida NAACP. And so, [sighs], it was a win-win situation, no, for us, so I’m happy to look back and see although those were turbulent times, fearful, especially that Saturday we were getting ready to march again down where the [inaudible 15:47] grocery store was, right now where the Lee County Human Service building is now. And the sheriff came out to the church to try to convince Reverend Edwards that we should not march because there was going to be trouble that day, that he had already gotten verified that a group from north Fort Myers was going to be coming over in their trucks with their guns and rifles. And he was advising him to cancel that particular demonstration. We wanted to





influence that grocery store that if we can spend our money there, they can also hire Blacks as cashiers, not just as really maids and [Laughter] basically. I think that’s all they really hired. They hired a few Blacks who did the cleaning of the grocery store. You didn’t see Blacks working in any other position. When we went to the bowling alley out on Palm Beach that we integrated, Reverend Edwards made sure that we knew how to bowl. He set up training in the basement of Friendship Baptist Church to teach us how to bowl. So that when we got there to the bowling alley, we would know what to do. I remember that well [Laughter] Oh gosh.

	V:	Did you learn how to bowl?



	S:	Yes, yes, we learned how to bowl. And after integrated the bowling alley, then we were able to organize bowling leagues.

	V:	Oh wow.



	S:	Yes. Absolutely. Yeah, so that was a big deal back then. And when we went downtown to [inaudible 17:42] for a sit in there, and I wasn’t at the one when we went over the snack house. But the one I was there was the [inaudible 17:51] one. And [inaudible 17:54] was always open to our business, because of course we spent money there, so we didn’t really have a real problem with them, but it was [inaudible 18:04.] And we couldn’t eat at the counter and all that, so we sat in there. And then of course the Fort Myers beach [Laughter]





	V:	Well can you tell me about the context for Fort Myers beach, because to my understanding, Reverend Edwards organized everyone getting bussed there to desegregate the beach. Can you tell me a little about the context for that?

	S:	Well I just remember that we did go out there on the bus, and we had been prepared for some retaliation. If that happened, again, we were a lot of young people and although we had some adults there, people were a little frightened, but we were, as young people, we were not frightened. We were excited about the possibility of finally being able to go to Fort Myers beach, and not having to always go to Bunche Beach.

	V:	Yeah. What kind of retaliation did you expect, like people just like throwing things at you or like—

	S:	Oh yeah, definitely, and of course all the verbal abuse that was always a part of it. We didn’t know if anyone would have any kind of weapons, you know, wherein they would be willing to fire guns. We knew that they had already threatened to bomb Reverend Edward’s — the apartment that he lived in. And to, you know, shoot him down. So we weren’t sure what go, we just trusted God to really protect us. And we were bold in doing that. And I knew that it could get bad because of all the riots that we had up in Nashville. Doing nine years there, [inaudible 20:00] had organized a lot of riots, not only in Nashville but also at Tuskegee. As a matter of fact, my year at Tuskegee, they actually had to shut the campus down because of the riots and all. So it was an era of danger and fear you had to learn, because we learned in church not to fear no man, and to always be able to stand, and know that God will take care of us, and so we truly





believe that. So I’m sure that’s why most of the supporters back then were mostly young people, teenagers.

	V:	You mentioned that Reverend Edwards had gotten bomb threats. Were there ever people who helped, were around them, that were like— sent— like, was his life constantly under threat and did he need protection and things like that?

	S:	Well, no, because he was his own protection. He made sure let those that were threatening him know that he knew how to shoot too, he has a gun too. Okay. And he wouldn’t hesitate to use it. And he was that bold, and this is why we were so impressed with his boldness in dealing with the opposition, because we were able to witness it.

	V:	You know, I remember hearing about this. I haven’t heard about this here in Fort Myers, but I remember when I was talking with the assistant director at the organization I work with, he was telling me about a story. Because he was the first person who told me about Isadore Edwards. He told me there was a speech where— oh I don’t remember. Isadore Edwards was giving a speech, and then I remember he said there was a powerful moment in it, where he put his gun on the podium. Can you tell me about that?

	S:	I just remember people talking about it [Laughter] Because I don’t remember seeing it, so I’m not sure if I was here, or if I was in school, in college. But I do remember hearing people talk about that, because he was bold. That’s one thing we can definitely support, the fact that he had no problem standing before the powers to be, to let them know what the demands were. And his control of the





English language, and his intelligence was above most. So, he almost reminded me of Dr. King in terms of his ability to really speak and to stand boldly without fear. To do what needed to be done. And I won’t ever forget, when he was dealing with the police department, because back then the police couldn’t arrest a White man, you know [Laughter] And one of our cousins [Laughter], they were tired of me telling that story, [inaudible 23:07] had joined the police department first, and for some reason he wasn’t aware – they had not communicated to him that he would not be allowed to rest a White man [Laughter] And so, at that time, they weren’t even in — the Black officers were not allowed to even drive a police car. Okay. So when he saw this man, and it was a white van, [inaudible 23:40], he said he ran the stop sign, and then he ran the red light. So he said, “Oh I can’t let this go.” So anyway, he pursued him, and arrested him, and to his surprise when he got him down to the station to arrest them, [Laughter], he was told, “Don’t you know you’re not allowed to do that boy?” And he said, “I’m not allowed to do what?” “You’re not allowed to arrest a White man.” He said, “Nobody told me that.” [Laughter] And he said, “Well he broke the law, and that’s why I brought him in.” And so sure enough, [inaudible 24:22] said, boy was he mad because they let the man go.

	V:	Oh wow.



	S:	Alright. So he went through Revered Edwards to let him know what had happened. That very next day, Reverend Edwards was down there in their face, and that was the turning point, because Reverend Edwards then demanded that the Black employees would be allowed to drive the police car. Because they





wanted to say they released the man because [inaudible 24:51] wasn’t in a police car. Well they were not allowed to drive.

	V:	I understand now. Well, sorry, I understand because I’ve spoken with Koot Ferrell, and he was on the force I think. He started in [19]66, and so this was afterwards, and I remember he couldn’t arrest any White folks, but he did tell me about the little car that they had and things like that, so I didn’t know that that was the result of your cousin — your cousin, correct?

	S:	Well, he’s— yeah. He’s cousin through my [inaudible 25:24] anyway, it’s okay.



But Rayfield is just — I tell you, his experiences would just knock you over [Laughter] listening to. But he finally left the police department and went to work for the sheriff department, and he retired from them, and it was a big lawn. I mean, they made it Rayfield, Newtonday, and all that in Fort Myers. And it was like, “Wow,” So we were so proud.

	V:	Do you think when Rayfield arrested the guy, do you think Rayfield knew, but just because no one had ever explained it to him, so he —

	S:	Right. He said—



	V:	He was pushing the lines.



	S:	He said nobody had explained it to him, because he even had his wife in the car at the time. But he pursued the van [Laughter] And he told her to get down [Laughter] He really didn’t know, he said. They hadn’t told him that when he got hired.





	V:	Oh wow, okay. It’s funny too, because they expect that it’s implied. S:	Right, it’s implied. Um-hm, yes.

	V:	Okay. And you said he went to work for the sheriff’s department. Was he a deputy or was he with— I know they had like a community force with —

	S:	Right, no. He was a deputy. He became a deputy. Um-hm. Yeah, I think I still have some of his stuff in my file. Because I had started trying [inaudible 26:50]— basically when I was doing television, I was highlighting a lot of people and things, and [sighs] I’ll have to look and see. But anyway, no, he became a deputy, and he was very well-respected. Very well. He really made us proud, yeah. And with him being fair-skinned, also, that was helpful for him. Koot is in my family too, but through marriage, of course. So anyway, it’s just amazing. I have quite a few family members who entered the police force, and I just said, “Okay, it is what it is.” And that’s why I told the Fort Myers police department when they were giving the history of that department, I was sitting in that audience and I was so upset when I heard them tell their version of really the history of the police department, and especially the role of the Black employees. So when I went to the chief to let him know that they really need to get Koot and some other Sunny Perkins — Sunny Perkins was the first Black detective, but they need to get some of these people and really get truth down, you know? It’s not just trying to show those who are attending your public forums that — no, even the Blacks had no power back then.





	V:	Um-hm. Well, I want to ask. How available is that information today, about the Black police officers and Black Civil Rights leaders here?

	S:	It should be readily available, because they did go ahead and assign the land, and I can’t even think of his name right now. But I think he’s still there. So much has happened as far as turnover with that police department, but they went ahead and supposedly completed a documentary on the history. And they were able to pull — because I helped solicit pictures from [inaudible 29:09] of the Blacks that was involved in order to make sure they got in there. And I never did see the final product, come to think of it. I never did see—

	V:	I think it’s the history book that they made. S:	Okay they did a history book.

	V:	They did a history book, because I know there are quite a few pictures of Black officers and things like that. So I think that’s probably where it just went. Because I know the person who made it.

	S:	Who made it, okay. Yeah.



	V:	Alright. Well that’s interesting.



	S:	But I was always like an instigator. I was always [Laughter] pointing out observations and making recommendations for corrections.

	V:	Okay. Well that and trying to make sure the story gets told. S:	Right.





	V:	Alright. So then I want to ask then, what year did you come back from college specifically?

	S:	Actually, when I graduated from college—



	V:	Oh sorry, when you got back from your work with— S:	I went from college right into my internship —

	V:	With the Air Force.



	S:	—Tuskegee, and then right into active duty. And then I got out in … was it [19]72… I got out in [19]72… I went to Sarasota Memorial in 1972 after I couldn’t get a job down here… okay. So it had to be around [19]71 that I got out of active duty. [19]67, [19]68. [19]69, [19]172.

	V:	I think this might help. Had the schools been integrated yet, when you came here?

	S:	Yes.



	V:	Okay. So it would’ve been early [19]70s.



	S:	Yeah. And it had to be [19]72 because Reverend Edwards left out at [19]72 and that’s when I left also to take a job at Sarasota Memorial Hospital.

	V:	Okay.



	S:	And that should’ve been a year before — yeah. So that should have been a year after I had gotten out. Yeah. So anyway, [sighs], what can we say?





	V:	Actually, I was really interested in — what was the public reaction at the time when — I mean, technically you weren’t there during that time, but I don’t know if you know, because I know you’re really well-educated. Do you know the public reaction at the time when the court ordered that Dunbar High School be closed? Because I know the talk of the time was integration and things like that, but integration wasn’t really integration. They were closing the Black public institutions and then bussing them into the White ones.

	S:	I actually found the document— I gave it to the Black history back then because at Friendship, in all those boxes I came across a document when the judge declared, “Shut down the Nigger school and integrate— you all, you know, you’re gonna have to do this, so get it done. So shut the Nigger school down,” and that’s what it read, just like that, and integrate the schools in Lee County. And when they decided to do that, it was like, whoa, wow, wow. Couldn’t believe it, but the suit had been filed, and Reverend Edwards had gotten [inaudible 32:25], the daughter of one of the deacons of the church. And this is what saddens me even now. That they were willing to risk their lives to use their daughter as the plaintiff on that lawsuit, and then to have our own people take away and sell us out, and that’s basically what they did. When they finally decided that they were going to try to get the school district from under the lawsuit, and we had no idea that they had committed an agreement that this community was unaware of. And seeing this is why with mine being so outspoken and yes, I don’t care what they say, they sold us out. Because we didn’t know that they were going to sell us out about agreeing to reopen the Dunbar High School out on Edison, which is where





the Dunbar Middle School was, and then build a brand new Dunbar Middle School outside of this community, when the lawsuit was to guarantee that a new Dunbar High School was going to be built whenever they met the requirements of the court. And yet, we didn’t get that. So when we heard about the agreement that the group had made, Ms. Melvin Morgan, and Charles Daily and Mr. Willie Green, and it’s sad because they wouldn’t even get the original plaintiffs.

Somehow or another, they must’ve lied, that they didn’t know where the plaintiff was, but that we knew that was a lie, because the mother ended up testifying when we had this little group meeting with Reverend Edwards over at Friendship. And when the newspaper was documented, and I know that’s why they didn’t want to release it, because Ms. [inaudible 34:29] came out and said, “I’m going to say what I need to say here today, and I don’t care who gets upset. And I’m not afraid,” but it took her three rounds before she finally came out. “Well, I just know that the Civil Rights attorney, the NAACP attorney, called me one morning and said, ‘Mrs. [inaudible 34:51], do you realize that the name of the plaintiff on the lawsuit has been changed?’” And she said, “No, how can that happen?” And she said, “Because I live right down the street from shoemaker. They know where Rosalind is.” And he said, “Well, I’m telling you now that what I have found out is that the names [Laughter] of the plaintiff has been changed.” Wow. So who signed off on the lawsuit? Mm. Willie Green and Shoemaker. Oh wow. So I went to Mr. Green and Shoemaker to say, “How could you all do this?” When you know that Rosalind is very much alive, when all that she and her family went through. How could you all [Laughter], in other words, stab them in the back? As





if their sacrifice didn’t really matter. So you went ahead and sold us out, you agreed with the schoolboard to put Dunbar High School, reopen Dunbar High School after thirty-two years, back out here on Edison. And then they can build the Dunbar Middle School out of this community? Out off on Ortez, over there? Excuse me? When that school was supposed to have been built within the Dunbar community, so now you have really changed the boundaries of what is considered Dunbar, in order to please whatever it is you all want to do. So and that’s what they did.

	V:	What did they change the name of the plaintiff to then? Because… S:	I know that Willie Green and Shoemaker—

	V:	They just changed —



	S:	Were the two that signed off as plaintiff of that lawsuit. V:	Oh, okay!

	S:	To get the school district from under that lawsuit, and when this community found out about it, we exploded, and I was a part of that explosion because I went personally to Shoemaker and to Willie Green, and say, “How could you sell this community out?”

	V:	And so that was what happened in 2000, when they finally ended everything? S:	Right.

	V:	Okay, I had no idea about that.





	S:	Yes, that’s what happened. And I was upset then with [inaudible 37:13], who had always been a very strong spokesperson and NAACP president, when he refused to go ahead and file a countersuit against what happened.

	V:	And I had a question about the NAACP leadership, because to my understanding once Reverend Isadore Edwards left, there was a lot of issues, at least within the organization of the NAACP afterwards. And I think it was either the Tony’s or the Sim’s, Lana and Nancy Sims, who told me about basically, it was Willie Green and I’m assuming Willie Battle, because they said it was two Willie’s —

	S:	Right, two Willie’s, um-hm, right.



	V:	-last name, but to my understanding they were both removed from their positions.



	S:	They were eventually removed, but believe me, their removal was really due to the fact that Willie Battle had no problems dealing with the system, and they wanted to get him what, shut down. And they used Willie Green, and they used Shoemaker [inaudible 38:24] to shut Willie Battle down. And that’s why when I came back, I was definitely very involved in NAACP, and then when I was witnessing what I was witnessing, I thought, “Oh wow, this can’t be happening.” But it did.

	V:	And so why was there a lot of tension, then? Like what was the infighting?



	S:	The infighting was basically knowing that they needed to control Willie Battle.



Willie Green was the one that got Willie Battle to really come on board to become president of the NAACP.





	V:	So he took over after [inaudible 39:00]



	S:	After Willie Green. Willie Green had become, but Willie Green had some financial issues and so he knew that, you know, he was not going to be able to stay in that position, so he thought his best plan was to get Willie Battle. Willie Battle depended on Mr. Green to teach him and lead him in doing that job. But Willie Battle was smart enough to know that as he began to go to the meetings and conferences to be able to learn on his own that he realized that Mr. Green wasn’t being 100 percent accurate in how he was doing things. So they ended up having a split, and Willie Battle got on his own, so to speak, in terms of standing firm in dealing with issues down here. No matter what they say about Willie Battle, he was the only bold person that really stepped out in order to deal with the issues here since Reverend Edwards.

	V:	And so I was always curious too, why in [19]72 and the aftermath of the [inaudible 40:21] case and integration and things like that, well I mean really it was — things were just starting to heat up again in [19]72. Why did Reverend Edwards decide to move on from Fort Myers, or was it even his choice?

	S:	Well, it was his choice, because he was tired of the pressure down here, and not having the support. You have more fighting — infighting— in this community.

People that wanted to really have whatever status but yet, didn’t realize that they were selling out their community for their own personal gains.

	V:	Yeah.





	S:	And so, that battle I think became too much for Reverend Edwards. And he just realized he was going to call it quits. And this church in Texas he had applied for, and they wanted him, so he decided to take it.

	V:	And did you remain in Fort Myers after this, or?



	S:	The same time Reverend Edwards was getting ready to leave out, I made my plans to leave out too. And at the time I had already called the Air Force to say that I was coming into the office to sign up to get back in on active duty, and at the same time here I see this ad for an assistant director of the food service department, in charge of the clinical services at Sarasota Memorial— oh wow! That’s not too far from home! But I’m sure they’re not going to hire me, because of my skin color, but I’m going to go for the interview anyway! But at the same time, I was planning on going back, and to my surprise, that interview I got hired immediately. And boy, it was a, whew, it was a fifteen year period that it was basically the struggle of my life and what I had gone through and learned here, now I’m having to apply it on my own in Sarasota. I couldn’t get a place to live, so I had a sister living in Arcadia, I commuted to work from Arcadia to Sarasota for about six months. And then I got tired and I told my boss, the director, I said, “Listen. I think I’m going to really have to resign and just leave because I am not able to even get a decent place to live, and da-da-da-da-da,” and he said, “If I help you find a place, would you be willing to stay?” [Sighs] I won’t say it was a mistake, but I said yes. So anyway, we start the process of really trying to get me into a decent place. We weren’t successful, and so we called the FBI in, and filed complaints on all the units that we had been to. They had no problems telling me





that they are not going to rent to a Black, they can’t rent to a Black. So it was like, “Okay.” But after we called the FBI in and they made the city pass an open house ordinance, and I could file complaints against all the units I had gone to and had been denied and all that stuff. One of the owners of a condo right on the borderline of Sarasota county and Manatee County there in Bradenton, I was able to get a nice apartment, because we did business with them from the hospital. And I didn’t want to live in any of those other places that we had filed complaints against. And so, I was able to stay there for— well actually, twenty- one years I worked at Sarasota Memorial for fifteen years, became the director of the department, was able to achieve a life-long dream of really getting the state of the art food and nutrition department. And not to mention the cafeteria, because boy, when I got through the cafeteria, they had us in what had been a morgue in the hospital.

	V:	[Inaudible 44:44]



	S:	Gosh, don’t mention it. But I was able to realize a dream that I had to really get a state of the art food service department. And so, I was successful in bringing to this country the first system of a cooked chill operation that even Lee Memorial here came, after we got it implemented and all [inaudible 45:13]. That system, and they started their system here, Bay Pines also came and copied. But there was no place in this country that had the system. In Europe, yes. Over in England we traveled to Canada to look at the system in operation. And to my surprise, that Sarasota Memorial was willing to invest that thirty million dollars [Laughter] into my realizing of really a dream that I had always had, to see a





hospital food service department really with state of the art equipment, and beautiful cafeteria facility and all that stuff, so yeah. I was able to make my mark up there [Laughter] So, I’m proud of that, but the Lord called me out of that career into full time minister. It was my plan to stay there at Sarasota Memorial for twenty years, I had just reached my fifteenth, and here comes all Hell breaking lose and the Lord trying to get my attention and took me about three years before I finally surrendered and said, “Okay.” So I accepted the call into ministry full time, got ordained under the Christian Methodist Episcopal denomination. Having grown up as a Baptist, you know Baptists didn’t believe in women becoming pastors and so it was that denomination that did accept females, so anyway. After my three year trial and study, I got ordained and the Lord sent me back to Fort. And I’m trying not to say it, I haven’t said it since I’ve been talking to you, but we were always saying Fort Misery.

	V:	Fort Misery.



	S:	We always called it Fort Misery. V:	[Laughter]

	S:	But Lord sent me back to Fort Myers, and I was so devastated because I did not want to be here. But God had blessed me tremendously to have really had a lot of new good experiences and travel a lot. And it was wonderful and so I had to finally surrender to say okay. When I came back and actually saw the condition of the community that I grew up in, it saddened my heart. It still… [crying] it still saddens my heart, because I’m– you know what? I know that this whole world,





you know? It’s just in a turbulence now, but at that time, when I saw that African Americans were really making, you know, really strives and really was the number percentage that was, you know, getting college degrees and educations and now, you know, you feel like you can really become a part of this country, you know? As opposed to being always discriminated as and treated as second class citizens. Yeah. It saddens my heart.

	V:	Do you think you understand why God sent you back here to Fort Myers?



	S:	Oh I do. Yep. It’s taken me this long to say, “Hey Lord, you did set me up.” And



… [sighs] wow. So, telling my experience and then even knowing how to make things happened, going up against my mother trained us and instilled in us to always stand for truth. Never be afraid. [Crying] It’s been a long journey. [Crying] Yep, it’s been a long journey.

V:  I can tell. Even though it’s, well, you said Fort Misery, you really care about this place and the people here.

S:  Because it was always a very close-knitted community, and people helping one another and you know, people caring about one another, it really was a village, you know? It really was a village, and everybody looking out for one another.

Everybody knowing everybody, and those who— we had no choice, even in school. When I tried to get around from having to take — I had taken algebra one, and algebra two. But then trig came, and it was like “Unh-uh.” I’m not going there. But, the math teacher, Ms. Martha Williams, found me in a [Laughter]— what was that math course I took? [Laughter] Oh it was a basic general math.





She came right in that [Laughter] classroom and pulled me out. [Laughter] “Redden, what are you doing in this class? You know you college-bound. No, your career.” [Laughter] Oh gosh, so you know, and Adam Baker was our homeroom teacher, and oh gosh, he didn’t let us get away with nothing, okay? And that’s just the way the community was. The people, kids that had, you know, the ability to really go to college. You may not have decided you were going, but they decided for you [Laughter] “No, you college bound!” Wow. So it was good, because we got such a strong support system and foundation, and courage in us to really shoot for the stars. Not to let anything stop you. Nobody can stop you from being what God has created you to be, and so you had that kind of support. Yeah. Oh boy. I tell you. But what has saddened me is the fact that people don’t want to give people who really suffered for a good, give them their justice. And that’s why I got really devastated about when I would be talking about history and what was going on in really our city, community, state, on my TV programs. It was like wow. And so when people would say, “Oh I haven’t heard. I never heard about.” I say, “What do you mean you never heard that?” Well, they’ve been lying about this so long so now I understand why God sent me back, because he knew out of the people that was here on the front line with Reverend Edwards, I knew what happened. And I would be bold enough to go ahead and say it, no matter how many times I got threatened.

	V:	Yeah.



	S:	And I had enough family here that would be a support for me. So when they wouldn’t allow me to have a job, okay? With my education, and with my





experiences, no. Could I get a job here? No. Because I’m going against the system. [Laughter]

	V:	I wanted to ask, because you talk about the people who apparently knew and even the leaders during the time in the movement, and I mean even now, people being threatened. I mean I’m not expecting any names, but do you know any groups that exist that are like that? Because I mean I know [inaudible 53:34] I don’t think the Klan has any incredibly big— I don’t think the Klan has a big presence here or anything like that. Is it just little cliques of people that have lived here for quite a bit, or?

	S:	Well basically when you have people that you look up to in your community, that’s really selling you out because of the little under-the-table deals that they were capable of making. And yet, you’re not looking at what is best for the whole community, and the lives of everybody. It really makes me sad because so much of that happened. And as they were trying to pull me into their group, and I kept saying, “Oh no. Unh-uh.” I’m not selling my community out, and if you all can’t handle a little truth, then hey, that’s on you. But at the same time, yeah, they would pressure you in order to try to get you to come into their circle. Be controlled by their position. Because now, what you have to do is make sure you answer to the good old boys across the track. And so, with Shoemaker, we understand how you got your little mall and Ms. Ann, I might understand how you got yours. And Mr. Green, we understood where your financial support was coming from. Willie Battle said no to the good old boys, so you all went along with them in order to, what, destroy him. Sad.





	V:	Yeah, and —



	S:	And to destroy others who would stand up to speak for the truth. Sad.



	V:	I’m trying to understand still. So the people who were supporting them financially then. So were these city officials and things like that?

	S:	Of course, yeah.



	V:	Okay, okay.



	S:	Oh definitely. Yes. That’s why the mayor’s position was always so critical, and this is why I worked hard to make sure [inaudible 55:37] in order to help really break some of all this control that was going on, and no matter how much they tried to demonize him. God had him strengthened in order to be bold, in order to speak for the truth. Um-hm. Yes. Because they were selling us out. And even when I finally said to Ms. Shoemaker one time, I said, “Well you’ve been harassing me about becoming a part of your group.” I said, “I’m really to consider that now.” I said, “So when is your meeting?” But I just wanted to see who all was in that group, because you don’t ever know. One thing I learned about the Vietnam Era is that you cannot win a war if you don’t know who the enemy is.

And so I said, “So I’m willing to come to consider being a part of your group.” And then I did that in order to make sure that I wanted to know who was in your group. Because people that you never would have thought selling out their community, and they still are. When the community paper got printed— got started with Mr. Middlebrooks [inaudible 56:46], “Who wrote the article on Shoemaker?” I said, “Why are these lies still continuing? When will somebody





have the boldness to speak truth?” But you keep printing lies in order to create whatever image that you want. Well, excuse me. There’s enough proof out there to prove that Shoemaker didn’t do all that she claimed, and that the good old boys wanted to claim that she did. But they wanted her to have control because she had agreed to keep us in our place. So yes, I went up against her, I went up against Ann Night, went before the school— I mean the city council even.

Especially when I found out the situation pertaining to the past of a church that I came in under, St. Phillips [inaudible 57:44] over on Lily. The pastor there had started a ministry of dealing with kids in the system and Hope House was the name, and someone had referred her to Shoemaker to try to get help. With that ministry, Shoemaker literally took it from her. Just took it. Because she could.

And I’m saying, “What?” So then when I started doing research on the whole house, and when I went over to the regional office and started going through the files, of course they were threatening me then. No, I have a right to go through the files, so don’t tell me, okay. “You’re gonna have to prepare—“ “Yeah. Go ahead and prepare it. I know that you’re gonna have to cover up some names, but I’m not going anywhere. Prepare, because I’m coming in to read. And then once I read and got my report together, yeah I went before the city council to expose what was going on at Hope House. And gave a copy of it to Connie Mack and to Porter Goss. Because all the federal monies that’s coming down here, and this was all a part of — you all want to keep Dunbar a blighted community so you can keep getting federal dollars, and all the federal dollars that you all have gotten based on the needs of Dunbar, where did it go? You created a dual





system, so you had a Dunbar neighborhood, okay, association. And then you had a downtown. And every time monies came in based on the needs of Dunbar, that money was shipped downtown. Why do I know this? Because I’ve read all the minutes. Willie Battle knew how to get those minutes, and you all are playing these games. So when I decided I’m going to write HUD and expose this corruption. And so again, they were pouncing on me again. Okay.

	V:	And so did you ever contact Housing and Urban Development about it?



	S:	Oh yeah. But they wanted to claim that they did their research and they didn’t find any proof of mine, of course.

	V:	They don’t want have anything to do with that. No. S:	Absolutely.

	V:	So it sounds like then there’s a lot of corruption—



	S:	It’s a lot of corruption, and I didn’t realize how deep the corruption was until I really got started. And asking questions and [inaudible 1:00:20] well why is this happening? Okay. Every time we have some kind of meeting in this community because you all are getting ready to file another, what, [Laughter] request for monies? Okay. You got a project going, but then every time the money comes, when they really find found out that I had closed in on them because what the Lord led me to do was to go ahead and pull in Harry Adams when he was the director of the Dunbar neighborhood. Okay. And I had him on my program, and I went to [inaudible 1:00:53], who was director of HUD, [inaudible 1:00:56]. And they thought I was befriending them, but no, I was simply gathering data.





Because this is terrible. So Connie Mack, if you go along with, okay, making sure that you push for these grant monies, all these millions of dollars that have come down here. And yet, you know that it’s been laundered right on into Fort Myers redevelopment agency. Then you’re part of the problem. So are you, Porter Goss. And again, they don’t want. That’s why I said, “Look how you have neglected Dunbar. All these years.” But based on the needs of Dunbar, you all have gotten millions of federal dollars. And so they knew I was aware what was going down. And that’s why the threats got started. And I finally got to the point of saying, “Lord, I’m just tired of all this,” So when they started trying to, you know, put more pressure on people, they shut down the American Legion post. Unh-uh. No you’re not. [Scoffs]

	V:	Why would they shut down the American Legion post?



	S:	They claimed that the commander was dealing in drugs and they staged an arrest, when they got him for his house, brought him to the post, stage an arrest for the news media, and yet, it was just a plan for them to eventually take that property.

	V:	Okay.



	S:	And the Lord had me to step in. [Laughter] They had no idea that God was concerned about even this. So yes.

	V:	Okay.





	S:	Um-hm. Yeah. They had been trying to take that property for a long time, because of course, I think it was WCI, I forgot, some name, one of the good old boys that really wanted that property.

	V:	Yeah.



	S:	Oh gosh.



	V:	Alright.



	S:	It’s just so much corruption.



V:   Yeah. Why do you think a lot of that ended up coming back? Because there was so much progress that— well, at least it looked like there was so much progress in the [19]60s, and —

S:   Right. It was progressing.



V:   Why did the infighting start? Do you know?



	S:	Because Satan wanted to, what? Control. And I said, “Satan,” because he’s using the good old boys. In order for the good old boys to be in control, they had to have control of this area too. So if they didn’t have a Shoemaker and Ann Night and Willie Green that was willing to sell out their community, okay, to be controlled by then, okay, then they couldn’t win. And then people got furious because they realized that hey, you can’t even get a job here. I can’t tell you how many applications I put in. Alright. Don’t even get called. But this is how they control things. They make sure that you’re not able to, what, earn a livelihood.





And there have been many people that have come back home, wanting to make a difference, but unh-uh.

	V:	Okay. And I had another question too, because you talk a lot about selling out the community and things like that, and I know there was a deal you talked about with Dunbar High and the issue with Dunbar Middle being made outside of the Dunbar community, which made a lot of people angry. In what ways were they selling people out during the [19]70s and things like that?

	S:	People who really had good credentials to even get good jobs didn’t get them. And they knew that if you couldn’t get a job here, then you gonna leave, and that’s what they wanted you to do. So a lot of people who had good intentions couldn’t come and invest in this community. Because they weren’t going to tolerate the foolishness of controlling people here. Yeah. And it wasn’t until I started trying to help organize this inter-denominational ministry alliance, to try to finally get the pastors, maybe if the — because see, they even kept— churches were now even divided. The vision that came about was just horrific. So nobody could really get things done. And get changes. I live one street over from Jones Walker housing project. There’s been more bloodshed there during the years of being a housing project than it was when it was a hospital. But yet, people were being allowed to openly sell drugs and do what they want to do. So hey, and you all thought this was just going to stay out here in Dunbar?

	V:	Yeah.



	S:	No.





	V:	Can I ask too, because it seems like one of the big differences, I remember when you were getting emotional when you were talking about when you came to Fort Myers and saw the state of everything. Why was there such a big business decline? Because to my understanding, before integration had happened, there was such a strong business community here. And the community was essentially self-sufficient because the Black community couldn’t shop at any of the White shops, so they needed their own. Can you explain to me why that decline happened?

	S:	Because there was a planned strategy to eliminate the business community. And that was done through the city redevelopment. They had to shut down the businesses on MLK. Alright? Because of the widening of the road, or basically I think they used that as the real excuse. So all those businesses along the strip then had to be, what, demolished.

	V:	Demolished or relocated, which— S:	Relocated. Who was the—

	V:	Afford—



	S:	Right—



	V:	Things like that—



	S:	Woodberry Barbershop was a staple, okay? Even when it was in the bottoms.



And then when my grandfather moved to Anderson then, but MLK now, the McCollum Hall. He and McCollum was good buddies, and my grandfather was





also a preacher, pastor. So he had his barbershop in the McCollum Hall building. And then after he got out of the barbershop business, his son, Howell Woodberry Jr., he had his barbershop, but it was on the other side. He carried on the name of the Woodberry barbershop, but on the south side of MLK. And so when they came along they tore down all those shops and all those buildings, that was the side where we had the movie theater, the grocery store, all that was on that side, thriving businesses. But no, they were going to have to— the city was going to have to, what?

	V:	But it wasn’t sold as that, was it? S:	It wasn’t what?

	V:	When they were talking about widening the road, it was never sold as that. At least to my understanding, like they didn’t tell people your businesses are either

—



	S:	Right. No it wasn’t.



	V:	And there was no reaction from— well there had to be a reaction from—



	S:	Reaction but your reactions were always, what, brought with the covering of your so-called community leaders being in favor of whatever the city’s going to do.

That’s how they sold us out. Yeah. They sold out their community. And they did get their little rewards under the table. But I’m glad Willie Battle was one of the few that stood up and wouldn’t sell his community out, so yeah, they made sure, and they sent Shoemaker to tell him that you’re not going to be build another building in this county. And they worked hard to make sure that happened.





	V:	And so have you ever talked with Marvin Davies or Reverend Edwards about the community, and how it is today?

	S:	Yeah. Oh I did often. Because the bottom line is, let me share this with you.



Because those who grew up here knew that I had a personal relationship with Reverend Edwards, so I was often in the circle of NAACP people. I was going to the national board meetings in New York with him, and Marvin Davies and the whole group of people. That’s when I was able to I think gain my most knowledge about strategizing and dealing with the issues in our communities around this country. And so it was like being on the scene, but somewhat on the sideline, but yet I was able to learn and I just could not believe when I came back here, that it was worse than what it was then. Because we had gotten sold out. When I say we, the community had gotten sold out. So everybody knew how powerful Ms.

Shoemaker was, “no you can’t go against Ms. Shoemaker, don’t you say— oh girl you’re not gonna be able to get a job nowhere, da-da-da-da.” If you had to live in a housing project, oh my goodness, you can’t go against Shoemaker or she’ll have you put out, you’ll lose your house. That kinda power. So when you have that kinda power on people, you what? You control them. And people are not going to go against, [Laughter] because they need a place to stay. They need to be able to buy food to eat. And what sustained me, and I see why the Lord sent me back, because he knew I had the foundation and family here. My mother, who was basically a housewife, stood against a judge because she had been called for jury duty and it was time for the state convention that she always went to, and she told the judge she wasn’t coming, and he said, “Bertha, I can





put you in jail.” She said, “Well, when I come back from my convention, then I’ll come to your office and you can put me in jail. But I’m not gonna stay here serving on jury, because this is my life, okay?” And so she stood her ground.

Okay? That’s the kind of blood that runs in our vein. My father, working for Lee County Roofing Company all those years, and then here he’s told to train this young White boy that’s gonna be his boss, and my daddy said, “No.” He walked off the job. I will always remember that when he came home saying he had walked off the job and why. But that same evening, [inaudible 1:12:34] roofer order came out and said, “Archie, I understand you have left Lee County. Can you start with Curia? So he was right back to work the next day.

	V:	There was a plan for him. S:	Yeah. There was a plan.

	V:	I was going to say, because I mean even leaving your job— that’s a risk.



	S:	Yeah. Oh yes. Um-hm, absolutely. But stand up for truth is what my mother instilled in us. I don’t care if it means you have to go to jail, you always tell the truth. Because it’s God whom you have to answer to eventually. Man has no Hell or Heaven to put you in, so you learn to be faithful to what God has, what, mandated, according to how they brought us up. And I would do that, I don’t care who out here don’t, who want me to speak up and speak out. I just tell them, “Don’t ask me.” And so I really sort of withdrew the last, what, five-six-seven years. I put a lot of energy into the young lady that I got to be my goddaughter, and I knew that she was a mover and shaker, so I really invested in her a lot.





Tanya Cola. To be able to train her to get some things done and stand behind the scene. So we were able to get a lot of projects done, and that has helped the community. But it’s just, you know you get weary sometimes in well-doing. And I’m saying, “Lord I’ll be seventy-three this year, and it’s like I’m so tired of all this.” [Laughter] And even when I was dealing with the federal court about the lawsuit documentation, [sigh] and that when I got this little threat from one of their little imps, talking about you better watch your back because you selling out your community leaders. I said, “No more so than what I’ve already told them. And they should be ashamed of themselves.” You know? I said, “So if you trying to threaten me,” I said, “Baby, go for it.” Yeah, you go for it. And we’ll see where you end up.

	V:	Okay. Well—



	S:	So anyway. But the struggle is so— there’s still so much needed now. V:	Oh I mean, just look outside.

	S:	I know. It’s so sad. And this is why we’re still struggling, because the whole process of dividing people has always worked, even during slavery. You divide in order to conquer. If you can keep people divided against one another, then you can conquer. Control. And until people really learn that and learn that, hey, you need to stand for what is right. Because in the end, we all do check out of here, and for those who do believe that there is a Hell or a Heaven, believe me, you want to choose the right path. You do what to choose the right path, so.

	V:	Alright. Well those are good words to end on. I guess.





	S:	[Laughter] [End of interview]

	Transcribed by:	Megan Sam, October 30, 2019 Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 11, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 28, 2021