AAHP 439; Lumpkin; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 439 Kelvin Lumpkin African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Vickie Oldham on October 26, 2015 27 minutes | 15 pages



Abstract: Mr. Kelvin Lumpkin reflects on his family’s migration to Newtown, Florida and growing up in a newly integrated time. Mr. Lumpkin discusses the hardships his parents faced and the evolution of racism in his childhood. Mr. Lumpkin became a preacher and he reflects on the struggles his congregants faced, especially financial restraints due to continued punishment for past actions. Mr. Lumpkin discusses how the Black community has changed and what he hopes for his community in the future.



Keywords: [Newtown, Florida; Segregation; Racism; Florida Black History; African American History]



Standards:

1. SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 439 (Newtown Oral History Project) Interviewee: Kelvin Lumpkin

Interviewer: Vickie Oldham Date: October 26, 2015



	O:	Today is October 26th. Give me your name. L:	Kelvin Lamar Lumpkin. [Laughter]

	O:	All right Kelvin Lamar Lumpkin, tell me when you were born and who your parents are.

	L:	I was born here Sarasota, December 12th, 1973 to Ernest Lumpkin and Delores Lumpkin. My father passed away about five years ago. My dad wasn’t originally from here but moved here when he and my mother got married. But my mother was born here in 1938 and has lived here all of her life and thank God, by the grace of God, she’s still here and so…

	O:	What kind of work did your mother and father do? And under what circumstances did he come?

	L:	Well my father came shortly after him and my mother got married. They lived in Ft. Myers for a brief moment, which is where my father was raised. But shortly after they were married, they moved to Sarasota. My mother has been a nurse for most of her life, my dad owned a cleaning business and was a custodian at Sarasota High School. Both had to drop out of school at some point. Being the oldest, both were the oldest in their families, and had to drop out, support their siblings, help work for the family. My mother eventually went back, got her G.E.D. and ended up getting a college degree and was an L.P.N. for many years—was even the first Black nurse in surgery at Sarasota Memorial Hospital. She remembers a time when Sarasota Memorial had a floor just for Black people and White people with contagious diseases were kept on one floor. And so she’s





seen a lot of changes over the years. I mean this looks like a different place from the time she was brought up in into now.

	O:	I’ll bet you have a lot of stories that you remember that either your father told or your mom told, knowing the time that they came up here.

	L:	Yeah I’ve heard them tell a lot of stories and boy I’ll tell ya I really miss my dad. There’s so many things since he’s been passed I wished I had asked about this or that. But Sarasota is much different place than it is right now. I mean there was a time where African Americans couldn’t go past Main Street, south of Main Street, at a certain hour. And my mother remembers when the first McDonalds came to Sarasota and how African Americans in Sarasota had to go to the back door to place their orders. So a lot has changed, they’ve seen a lot change.

	O:	You don’t remember having to do that more McDonalds do ya?



	L:	No, no, no. Certain I didn’t experience racism in the same way, or to the degree that they did. Certainly, definitely experienced some racism here in Sarasota.

There was a time, especially when I was around high school years, just remember getting stopped by the police a lot. I was getting stopped all the time and there was no other logical reason. I wasn’t speeding, had my seat belt on just obviously I looked suspicious, I guess.

	O:	Or you were driving while Black and so you don’t have to have any suspicious look but just be African American.

	L:	Yeah, I’ll never forget coming home from football practice one day, me and two of my friends, Taiwan Calhoun and Reggie Leeware, I have a car and so I usually was chauffeur for my friends our senior year and I’ll never forget, we see a police





car that we think is following us, we’re not sure so every time we turn, the car turns. And so we’re wondering is the Cop calling us? But what he was doing was actually calling for back up. I’ll never forget, he stops his, a whole bunch of cop cars follow us, pull their guns on us [Laughter] right across the street from where Moss Brothers used to be, where Hollywood 20 is now, and I’ll never forget—it’s funny now but it wasn’t funny at the time. I just remember how outraged my mother was because if we made just one slight move or anything or if they perceived anything threatening, we would have been all gone. But they said they thought we were some drug dealers or something. But my mother helped me not to have a complex and helped me to see the big picture about race and how to deal with it.

	O:	Given what we know about what’s happening today, that was very dangerous. L:	Yeah, it was pretty scary at the time.

O:  Tell me about growing up in this Black community. This whole project is about Newtown a hundred years of history and so what do you remember about how Newtown was as you were growing up?

	L:	Well one of the things that I remember about our community is that there were a number of people in the community who could discipline us if we got out of line. I remember one lady, Ms. Julia, spanking me then probably went and got another one because everyone seemed to look out for each other, seemed to be kind of a village mentality. And I just remember some of my teachers, Ms. Smith, my fifth grade teacher, who’s still alive, coming to my house to talk to my mother about my behavior. And kind of back then, the teacher and the parent formed a





committee that you couldn’t overcome and you had to get in line. I remember Mr. Henry Atkins who has passed on, doing the same thing. And they really just went out of their way. They seemed to be really concerned, even coming to my house when things weren’t going right. And I knew I was in trouble. My mother wasn’t one to co-sign my dysfunction in any way but you had it get it right. And so there’s no doubt in my mind, we’ve lost that and I think in some ways we’ve moved forward, but in many ways this community, and Black communities in general, have gone backwards in some ways. And so I miss that. For us it was “Yes Ma’am. No Sir.” We respected authority. My second, third, and fourth grade teacher Kathy Ansley, who actually I have the privilege to pastor as member of my church, boy she was great. She gave the discipline that we needed. And she was kind of an extension of my mother in many ways. And so we definitely lost some of that. I don’t see the respect for authority. I don’t see our elders being revered like we did. We just respect them, revere them. And you just don’t see that anymore. See so many shootings and we fought with our hands, now everyone wants to pick up a gun or something. So it breaks my heart in many ways. I’m encouraged about Newtown but hurt over some of the things I see as well ‘cause this is my community.

	O:	Tell me about your experiences at Sarasota Junior High and Sarasota High because the people that I’ve spoken to—boy it took them a while to get equal accommodations, equal education and so I want to find out what your experiences like were.





	L:	And I don’t know if my experience was just—like my oldest brother I think was the first to go from Booker to Sarasota High after integration. So I didn’t have some of those challenges but it was different for me because going to Booker Elementary School, Kathy Ansley was my teacher, then I went to Ms. Smith, and then going to Sarasota Middle School, and one of my teachers was Ms. Caroline Harper, used to be Major. And so she was kinda an extension of that but then remember around seventh or eighth grade, things kinda changed. Teachers kinda started treating me differently and trying to insinuate I had behavior problems and those kind of things. Whereas those ladies had a different approach. Just almost felt like I was theirs in many ways—and of course they knew my family; they knew my father and those kind of things. So they took a different approach. But things kinda changed a little bit around seven and eighth grade and I started almost believing that I did have issues.

	O:	Well you bring up this interesting point that our African American male children have problems in schools because the teachers are saying that they’re behavior problems.

	L:	And understand I had some great White teachers especially around seventh, but eighth grade, there’s no doubt in my mind. I never forget, kind playing around with a White girl in my seventh grade class, she accidentally fell and I remember the teacher sending me—not even hearing my side of the story and we were just playing—sending me to the office and I get suspended. And what was funny, the young lady, the White girl, Caucasian girl, was saying, “No he didn’t do it. He was just playing. It was an accident.” [Laughter] She’s pleading for me and she’s not





hearing it. Like, “No it was your fault” and I never forget that, that was a moment I’ll never forget. And I had a couple more teachers like that but here this girl is pleading saying, “No it didn’t happen like that” but she was determined to get me out of class. And so I wondered about other young men who don’t have parents who are involved to come and stick up and fight for them. I wonder do they start believing that they’re problem kids and start acting that out.

	O:	That’s a really good point. Sarasota High, what was your experience like at Sarasota High?

	L:	Sarasota High, and my years were pretty good there. I had a good time. I met some life-long friends there. Still I remember early on in high school, having some of the hang over from middle school from some teachers labeling me this way. And being in classes that I knew I should not have been in and fighting through that in the first years of high school. But came out okay. I remember Peggy Wiggins was my guidance counselor. It was funny when I was in middle school she was a P.E. teacher but kinda rose up the ranks and was guidance counselor by the time I was a senior in high school and she was instrumental in pointing me, getting me to go to Bethune-Cookman University. And that was a great experience for me; it was a different experience going to a historically Black college which I cherish that, I wouldn’t trade that for the world. It was a great time, I learned a lot there and so overall my time at Sarasota High was really good.

	O:	What did you learn at the HBCU that you don’t think you could have learned anywhere else?





	L:	One class that stands out to me was African American History taught by Dr.



Sheila Flemming, I’ll never forget her. And she really opened my eyes to the real history of African Americans, even the real intent of Abraham Lincoln. It was just an eye opening experience and gave me a greater sense of pride for who I am as an African American.

	O:	This history was not taught? You didn’t get it?



	L:	Oh no, no way not to this degree. And this was a class devoted specifically to the history of African Americans with a focus of African Americans in this country, our sojourn in this country. And boy that was a huge turning point for me in my thinking. And I think that might have been instrumental in why my burden to serve this community now. That’s pretty much what my ministry is about. Of course we want everybody but we’re trying to serve the down and out with a particular emphasis on this community. Even when I ran for City Commission, my failed run—I had to use the word failed because a lot came out of that but seeing this community be better was my main motivation for that. And so now I don’t have to be on the City Commission to help make this community a better place and in some ways I might have more freedom to do that. But yeah that was a life- changing experience at Bethune-Cookman.

	O:	Talk to us about your getting into the ministry. What happened? What were you planning to be coming out BCU?

	L:	Well I have a degree from BCU in Accounting [Laughter] but that didn’t work out. The ministry is not something you choose; you’re chosen for it. God kinda arrests you and you just don’t have any choice. And I come from a family of preachers,





thought I could get away from it but there was just no way. And I actually officially started preaching my senior year of college. Started feeling the burden, the call, the pull around my junior year of college. Fought and fought but was sitting under a good ministry at that time, a great preacher, Bishop Derek Triplet. And others recognized it in me. I’ll never forget when I called my grandfather who was pastoring here at the time when he was alive. And I told him, “Hey I feel like God is calling me to preach.” He was like, “I knew that, I was just waiting for you to realize that. I saw that a long time ago.” And that was kinda the response I got.

And so I started preaching and seeking God’s plan for my life and I knew without a doubt I had to move back to Sarasota. I knew my work was back here most of my friends were going to bigger cities, Atlanta. But I felt the tug to come back to Sarasota and no doubt that was the right call for me. So here I am.

	O:	What do we do now to improve our Newtown community? What do we need to stop doing? What do we need to start doing?

	L:	That’s a good question, a tough question. I ran for office a few years ago and one of the things I realized, I believe that government can certainly be a partner to cities, communities, jurisdictions but there is no political solution in my mind to the problems Newtown and Black communities that look like Newtown face.

There is no political solution to our problems. I believe that the real issue is the disintegration of the family unit. I think absentee fathers, and there are reasons for that, many are locked up in jail and I think some of these sentences are too harsh, especially for the non-violent crimes. And I’m not a person who goes around pulling the race card, I’m a person who believes in personal





responsibility. And I think that African Americans can achieve in spite of race. Now I’m not saying that we don’t have harder problems but even our President is a great example of you can make it. But I do believe that a lot of the sentences, there is no doubt in my mind no logical person can deny the racism in the criminal justice system. If an African American commits and his White counterpart commits a crime, the sentences are totally different. No logical personal can deny that. So I think we do have that working against us. But I do believe our destiny is in our hands. If we choose cooperatively to think differently and change a cultural mindset, I think we’ll see our communities thriving like they did. Because Newtown, Black communities in some ways have gone backwards. My mother remembers a time when there was a grocery store, Newtown pharmacy. You know all these kinds of things. The community was different people kept their yards as a sense of pride. And so that’s all gone. A lot of that is gone and I believe you can trace it to the disintegration of the family unit. There’s no doubt in my mind, kids need their father—even if the parents aren’t married, and that’s the ideal situation in my opinion—but fathers have to guide their children’s life, have to be a part of their life, sons and daughters. If that son doesn’t have his father teaching him and guiding him he grows up with a disadvantage; same with the daughter, if she doesn’t get her father’s love, or there’s no one to step in and fill the void to be that mentor, then she doesn’t have a sense of who she is and inevitably dates the wrong guy looking for love from a boy. And so I believe that when fathers, men, step up to the plate and mentor— and I believe African American men especially have a responsibility, if they’ve





made it, they need to come back and mentor young men and father the fatherless. Mentor young men who don’t have fathers.

	O:	This group that you attend the Thursday group of pioneering Newtown residents, tell us about that group and the things that you’ve heard from them—any stories.

	L:	Well I have a standing Thursday morning breakfast appointment with some senior statesmen from Newtown, Mr. Ed Rainey, J.B. Lee, Sylvester Hardy, and sometimes we have some visitors in and this group has been going on for years. Mr. Carlos Suarez is a part of that group, Curly Williams, others who’ve gone on. But I’m glad they let me join the group but they’re just a wealth of history about this community and they just remember so many things and I enjoy just listening to them and so I’ve learned so much about Newtown from them. It’s just, it’s been amazing. I don’t schedule anything else on Thursday mornings so I can just sit and listen to these guys. I’m trying to get them to write a book, I think they need to write a book.

	O:	The experience that you had going to Bud’s Barbershop, I think is worth sharing.



	L:	[Laughter] Yeah of course Bud died when I was pretty young. I don’t know how old I was when he died but I do remember him vividly and I just—he was a great man but I hated being in his barber chair. I just remember this pick and everybody had their afros and I might have had a curl or something like that. [Laughter] I can’t believe I admitted that on camera. I just remember Bud with this pick and just remember those days, my dad taking me up there on Saturday mornings.





	O:	There’s a lot of comradery in the barbershop? Do you remember? How old were you?

	L:	You know they call it “The Black Men’s Country Club” so there’s always some great discussion going on in there and you have a lot of people who just wanted to go sit in the barbershop even if they’re not getting their haircut. ‘Cause there’s always some great discussion about politics or news of the day. So yeah, those are great days.

	O:	As a pastor of a church, some of your parishioners, I’m sure many of your parishioners are from Newtown. What sort of issues are they having in general?

	L:	Well you know our church, we want to down-and-outs. Of course we have professional people who are members of our church, we’ve got lawyers, even a City Commissioner. But we really want the down-and-out and so a lot of the problems that some of our people have, and especially some of our young men is just getting employment. Of course being a preacher I believe in the power of God to change lives and I believe in the difference that Jesus makes in our lives and so I’ve seen that happen. But you have a system that kinda perpetually punishes people for their past mistakes. We’ve got some former drug users and drug dealers in our church who are active in ministry but are having hard time moving up the economic ladder because their past transgressions are constantly held against them. I mean they’ve paid the price but still can’t vote which just I don’t get that. You’ve paid your debt to society but you can’t even participate and it’s hard for them. It’s hard for me to see it on them. And then one of the things, we’ve done—and we’ve got to do a better job it at our church—we’ve done





financial classes which we need to do again. Because a lot of people in our community who are hardworking, they’re not lazy, but aren’t financially literate. They didn’t grow up knowing about how to invest and so when we get money, just because we don’t have financial literacy, we go buy things that really have no value. Things that depreciate immediately because we just don’t know. Many of us didn’t grow up in a family where we were taught those things. And so you have some starting off at a disadvantage in life.

	O:	Do you see the laws changing anytime soon regarding those maximum sentences regarding those maximum sentences that African Americans are getting?

	L:	Well I don’t know. President Obama has been really talking about it a lot more than I’ve heard any President in the United States who’s really been championing just reforming the criminal justice system period. We jail so many people and these sentences are unbelievably harsh and unbalanced, there’s no doubt about it. And so I hope the President—I don’t know he’s got just a couple years left. It’s obviously a passion for him, I don’t know who’s coming after him because there’s no way I think President Obama can fully bring about change because he doesn’t have enough time. But I think whoever gets inaugurated in a couple of years, whether it be Democrat or Republican, I hope will pick up where he leaves off on that particular issues. I think that’s very important, I think our community would be different if a lot of African American men didn’t receive such unjust sentences. Not saying that we shouldn’t pay our debt, I’m not saying that. I believe in law and order. But clearly some of these sentences they’re harsh and when you have





a father away from his or her kids for that many years, that’s devastating. And then my challenge to African American men is be fathers, don’t just have all these babies because you can’t support any of them financially or emotionally. So we’ve got to be more responsible in that area. So I have hope but boy I tell you, it’s hard to get these laws changed, these sentencing laws changed. But it can happen.

	O:	Two more questions. You mentioned the lack of employment and in the interviews that I’ve been having, people came here to work, be it the celery farms or as domestics or—

	L:	Even the circus brought a lot of African Americans here.



	O:	Absolutely the circus. But I’m finding for the same reason that people came, young people, professionals, leave because there is not adequate employment and they don’t come back expect for holidays and weekends.

	L:	Well you know Sarasota is but so big, so you probably always gonna have some people who are gonna find greener pastures, I would imagine. But I think the other problem is that especially people in Newtown have to start developing the skills and creating the skills to make them employable because the economy is growing again, there are construction cranes everywhere. I was talking to our executive pastor and he met a guy who was saying we need electricians; we’ve got more electrical work then we have qualified people. I’m willing to help train people. So we have to take advantage of those opportunities even if that’s not our destiny, even if it’s a short-term job to get us where we ultimately need to be, you gotta do something to get to where you’re going, where you ultimately want





to go. And so we’ve got to become more employable and you know with our ministerial lanes, we work with the Sarasota Police Department trying to get drug dealers out of the game. And some of those drug dealers, I’ve had one drug dealer tell me, “Hey Pastor Lumpkin, I don’t want to do this. I hate doing this but I feel like I have to. I can’t get a job. They keep closing doors in my face.” And so I don’t even have an easy for what I tell them. Yes, you’re gonna make less money initially. If you’re selling drugs and making this amount of money, yes it’s hard to tell them to go to minimum wage but I try to encourage them to look at the big picture, not the short-term because the short-term is gonna get more difficult, you’re not gonna make as much. But if you get a career in the long-term, it’s gonna be better off and you can sleep at night and don’t have to watch your back. So we’ve got to have the endurance too and maybe the churches can be a partner in helping some of these individuals transition within that life and encourage them. We’ve got one in our church now. Young man who was a drug dealer, we were just talking the other day, he’s on his way to becoming a chef now. He’s got to just make the sauces now and stuff like that but he’s climbing the ladder. He’s at school at Kaiser learning to be a chef and wants to be the best chef in the world. And so I tell him, “Go for it.” So he’s a great example of got to pay the price in the short-term but in the long-term, I’ll achieve my goals.

	O:	And then you came back to Sarasota because of a call to come back and serve. I know a certain amount are going to leave and not come back and this is just gonna be a visiting home but what can we do to attract other laborers in the vineyard to come back and serve this community because it is in need of talent.





	L:	Well that’s a good question. And let me take the long way to answer that. I think that part of the problem is that some our kids aren’t being brought up without an obligation to serve. I feel an obligation to serve this community. Some people want to live their lives for their pleasure and so they want to live in a city where entertainment is readily available. I’m not saying there’s anything wrong with that but I believe with the problems in the African American community, any African American who’s made it, I think has a responsibility, just like Harriet Tubman to go back and help those who are less fortunate. And so I hope that we can instill—and me and my wife have two kids—I hope we can instill in them, a heart to serve and a burden to serve because if this was just about fun, or shows and concerts, I wouldn’t be living be living in Sarasota but there’s no place I’d rather ‘cause this is where my service field is. And so I think if we can instill in our kids a greater sense to serve, then maybe some will come back. And I see some coming back but maybe more will come back because this community needs the talents of individuals who’ve been fortunate enough get a degree to be exposed to greater things. This community really needs that.

	O:	Anything you’d like to add? L:	I don’t think so.

	O:	Okay.



	L:	I’ll probably think about it later. [End of Interview]





	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 5, 2020