AAHP 058B; Simmons; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 058B Gwendolyn Zoharah Simmons African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Justin Dunnavant on October 25, 2012 1 hour, 34 minutes | 40 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Dr. Gwendolyn Zoharah Simmons describes her involvement in the Civil Rights Movement, specifically her membership in the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC). During her childhood, she lived in a loving community and was taught about slavery from her grandmother. While at Spelman University, she left school to join SNCC and was sent to Laurel, Mississippi to help organize the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party to register African Americans in a mock voter registration to challenge the existing Democratic Party. Her mission was also to help teach African American children in two freedom schools, which ended up being firebombed by the Ku Klux Klan. Later in life, Dr. Simmons became a regional coordinator for National Council of Negro Women, then moved on to work for the American Friends Service Committee. She was able to travel nationally and internationally with those jobs and eventually went back to school to get her doctorate for which she earned a Fulbright scholarship to study women and Islam in Jordan.





Keywords: [African American History; Mississippi Freedom Summer; Civil Rights Movement; SNCC]





























For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 058B

Interviewee: Gwendolyn Zoharah Simmons Interviewer: Justin Dunnavant

Date: October 25, 2012



	D:	Good evening. This is Justin Dunnavant with here Dr. Gwendolyn Zoharah Simmons in her office in Anderson Hall. Today’s date is October 25, 2012. And Dr. Simmons, could you please spell your name out?

	S:	Okay. It’s first name Gwendolyn. G-W-E-N-D-O-L-Y-N. Zoharah. Z-O-H-A-R-A-H. Simmons. S-I-M-M-O-N-S.

	D:	Okay, thank you. And thanks again for sitting down with me to talk. S:	Certainly.

	D:	We wanted to speak a little bit about your involvement in the Civil Rights Movement, of course the continued involvement. I guess we could start with just a little background information. I know we’ve done an interview with you already, but I guess just a little bit of background as to where you were born, where you’re from. That sort of thing.

	S:	Okay, okay. I was born and raised in Memphis, Tennessee. I grew up in Memphis. Spent all of my childhood and adolescence in Memphis. Not leaving until I went off to college in 1962. I was born in 1944 and so my growing up years were prior to, for the most part, the really advent of what we call the Civil Rights Movement. So when I grew up, Jim Crow was in full force. And so I definitely experienced all of the indignities that were imposed upon African American people in the Jim Crow system. So everything was segregated. Including we didn’t have access to the libraries. We could go one day a week to the zoo. That was on a Thursday. We could go one day a week to the fairgrounds, on a Tuesday. But we could never go to the library. Of course, all Black schools, all







Black neighborhoods. And I always like to mention that while certainly the fact that these were laws that restricted us and, no question, this was very, very negative, but in practice, our neighborhoods, our churches, our schools were very affirming and supportive places. So while we had to fight the Jim Crow system, at the same time, the fact that we were all made to live together no matter what our class background or our educational background, meant that there were strengths in those communities. And unlike now, people who were better off reached and helped those were less well off. And people took up collections and helped one another in the communities. So while I grew up in a working class, blue collar family, my grandmother raised me with my grandfather. Neither of them had finished high school. But my neighbor was the principal of our high school and I played with his daughters. I was in and out. And of course it’s interesting because they lived in a beautiful house. I lived in a three-room shotgun house and they lived in a ten room mansion, from what I could see. The wife was a teacher, the husband was a principal. Her mother lived there and had worked hard all her life. And in fact it was her mother’s home. But they had really renovated it and all. So it was interesting to go from my little three room shotgun house and think nothing of waltzing into the principal’s house because I played with his daughters. They were my friends. But at the same time, this said to me that this is what education will do for you. So this then really fueled, even more than what my grandmother was fueling already, that I had to get an education.

Because if I got an education, it meant I could live like this, and not like the house I grew up in and not having a car—I grew up in a family that didn’t own a car. And







these people had two cars. So it was just interesting. The medical doctor, who was our family doctor, he lived in the neighborhood. He had a nice office in another part of the town. So these people were accessible. And in our church, the pastor of my church had a PhD. And he was a Morehouse undergrad and he gone to theological seminary in the North and his wife was a graduate of Spelman. So these are people that I was interacting with. And therefore it wasn’t any question in my mind that I could do this, too. I could live like they lived. It was just the difference was education. So it’s really interesting how now you go into a very low income African American community and there’s probably nobody anywhere near there who’s made a success. And of course I never saw my folks as being unsuccessful because they worked hard. It wasn’t like they were alcoholics or drug addicts. They just didn’t have education. The jobs they had didn’t pay money. But yet, they had pride. So I just think back on how different it was.

	D:	What neighborhood did you live in? Did it have a name, the neighborhood?



	S:	That neighborhood really didn’t have a name. It’s so interesting. It was just North Memphis that I lived in. And it was very close to my school. I went to Manassas High School, which was first through twelfth grade, by the way. So that was the other thing, because the teachers that I had in the first grade, second, and third, even when I was in the tenth grade I would go back to see them all the time, because I loved them. Or if I saw them, it was another family kind of thing. That was amazing. And I loved that school. And I loved those teachers. So Ms.

Johnson and my first grade teacher, I remember them so well. Ms. McWilliams,







my second grade teacher. It was like you felt that they loved you. Not only were they teaching you. So our teachers, especially when I got into high school, they thought nothing of coming an hour before school opened to teach us math. ‘Cause we had a math club. It was home in a way that I sense a lot of our children don’t get school like that. It’s a bittersweet, in some ways, to think about what happened with integration. I know I’m jumping ahead. There were some positives about it, even though it was enforced. Of course I would never say we should have not kicked those walls down. But I think we should have also held on to some of those things. And that was our mistake. When I went to Atlanta, which had a very large Black middle class, my mind was boggled. And all the stores that were owned by Black people. Pharmacies, restaurants, nice sit-down restaurants, hotel, nice hotels. And all of that is gone now in Atlanta. None of that exists. Because once integration came, everybody ran downtown and let those businesses dry up. So it’s important to talk about what we did and how successful we were in some areas, but we made some mistakes. We did not support our neighborhood businesses, and that was a grave mistake. And I’m not at all sure that the schools we should have dealt with. And we should have demanded equal money for the schools. The books, the whatever was out at that time. There wasn’t any computers, but all the scientific stuff to have in your labs. But I’m so sure we should have done what we did. The busing and, and so many Black teachers lost their jobs. Anyway, I jumped ahead.

	D:	Oh no, you can—



	S:	All right, okay. [Laughter]







	D:	Just to go back a little bit. Were your parents originally from Memphis as well?



Are your grandparents from Memphis?



	S:	Well my grandfather was born and raised in Memphis. He was in World War I. He actually served in France. He had been outside of this country. And until I really started studying African American history, I had no idea what that meant.

Because my grandfather must have been born in like [18]90. Cause my grandmother was born in 1898. I think he was about six to eight years older than her. But he had been to France. I just now so wish that I had asked him certain things. I was fifteen when he passed away.

	D:	Do you remember his name?



	S:	Oh yeah. Henry Douglas. Henry Douglas. He was a very—of course, he probably had about an eighth grade education at that. But he read all the time. But he didn’t talk a lot. My grandmother was sort of the star around which we all circumambulated, so to speak. She was very interesting because she was raised by her grandmother, who had been enslaved. And her grandmother’s name was Lucy Goldsby. And Lucy told her all about slavery, told my grandmother. So unlike a lot of Black people in my age group and even younger, who say that their folks never talked to them about slavery, I’m always shocked at that.

Because I got it all the time. So her grandmother taught her about slavery and she taught me about slavery. So it wasn’t like I didn’t know about it. And in her grandmother’s case, she was blonde and blue-eyed. So her mother had been raped. What was so painful—and I was told this story so many times—was that when she was like thirteen, she had a all-White sister who was married and their







father gave my great-grandmother, Lucy, to this sister to be her personal maid. But the sister hated her, because it was so clear that she was half White. And she looked as White as her sister. So the sister would punish her with brutal punishments. Like sticking needles between her fingers if she did wrong. And her nailbeds until they bled. And beat her if she would cry. So she told my grandmother these stories and my grandmother would cry when she told me the stories, all those years later. Because she had loved her grandmother so much. And when she would tell me the stories, she would cry, because she said her grandmother cried. And she would cry with her grandmother. So I knew about this from early on. The other thing was that my grandmother had been raised in Earle, Arkansas, so she was not from Memphis. She was born in Earle and she had lost her mother at a very early age, I think nine. And then she lost her father when she was eleven. So an older brother came from Memphis back to Earle to take care of all of his younger siblings. And they did sharecropping. So I knew about the sharecropping system from her telling me all about how it worked and how hard they had to work and how the Whites—[Phone ringing]. Sorry, I forgot to turn this off.

	D:	No problem.



	S:	I’ll just let her know and I’ll turn this off. Hey Robin. I’m being interviewed by Justin for the oral history project. I’ll call you after it’s over if you’re going to be home. Okay. Alright. Bye-bye. Let me turn this off. I forgot it was on. I didn’t want to miss you, so I had left it on in case you were outside that door and I didn’t hear you banging. [Laughter] You would call me and say “Come to this door and open







it.” Okay, so let’s turn that off now. All right, it’s no sounds. So she would tell me how they would pick all this cotton and the weighing and how often they would be cheated because the man kept the books as to what they owed. Because everything had to be gotten from the owner of the plantation. They couldn’t buy their seeds or their food. Everything, he had a store. And so you went in there and he would he write in the book what you owed. And then when the crop was brought in and it was weighed up and everything, he’s got the books. So the crop maybe was two thousand, and he could say, “Well you owe me fifteen hundred.” So for a whole year you might get five hundred dollars. So she was bitter about that kind of thing. So she passed all of that kind of understanding on to me. And she also told me a lot about people having to run away from the plantations because they were in debt and they didn’t get anything. And then how they’d try to slip away and how the owners would try to keep them on the—it was a form of slavery. So people leaving in the middle of the night. The fathers leaving the wives and children cause they couldn’t take them. The owner with bloodhounds. So all of that she told me about when I was growing up.

	D:	So did your grandmother escape or was she able to—



	S:	No, they actually—she went to live with this grandmother and basically was never went back. She was able to get away. But she said sometimes they would bring in such a large crop, they actually would get a little money out of the whole deal. And the last thing I think that was so important to my story is that my grandmother wanted an education so badly. She was saying that her brother would promise if she picked so much cotton, if they brought in a good crop, he







would let her go off to school because where they lived, the school for African American children only went to the sixth grade. So in order for her to go beyond that, she literally had to go to a boarding school. But every year he would tell her, “I can’t afford to pay for you to board.” So this was why she would always say to me, “You’re going to get an education. I was denied, I wasn’t permitted to get one. So you have to get it for the both of us.”

	D:	So then you finished high school at seventeen? S:	No, no, I was eighteen.

	D:	Eighteen years old. Okay. And you decided to go on to Spelman after that?



	S:	Oh God yes. That was my number one—I applied to a number of schools and got in all. Howard and Spelman. And the school right there in Maryland, oh my goodness. It’s in, is it Baltimore?

	D:	Morgan?



	S:	Morgan. Morgan State. It was beginning to be integration of colleges in the North and Midwest. And I actually got into a White school too. The school that had been all-White had already begun to integrate. But I knew I wanted to go to Spelman. And so the question was who was going to give me the best package. And once I got a full scholarship and it was definite. And of course, our family doctor, both his daughters were graduates of Spelman. And the pastor was a Morehouse person and his wife was Spelman. So they had really impressed upon me that Spelman was the place to go.

	D:	Were there any Fisk graduates in your community?







	S:	It probably was. Cause almost everybody that I graduated with went to either Fisk or Tennessee State. Like my cousins, they all went to Tennessee State. I know plenty of people that went to Fisk. Of course, Tennessee State was much cheaper, because it was a state school. But a few went to Fisk, even though it was private. But I didn’t even apply to Fisk.

	D:	You wanted to get out of the city. [Laughter]



	S:	Right. Well, Fisk is in Nashville. It would have been out, but I wanted to get further. And my grandmother really wanted me to go to an all-girls school.

	D:	So what did you major in when you got there? What was the experience like?



	S:	Well initially I thought I was going to be a doctor. So I was planning to major in biology. The chemistry separated the girls from the women, right? [Laughter]

	D:	Right. [Laughter]



	S:	Yeah, that’s what did me in. So before I left, I had transferred over to political science.

	D:	And what was your experience like there at Spelman?



	S:	Well, first of all, when I got there I was just so elated to be there. It was like a dream come true. It was beautiful campus. I was very, very thrilled to be there. I was assigned to a place called Packard Hall, and it’s one of the oldest buildings, but very well maintained. I can even now remember smelling the wood. It was lots of wood and it was just shining like glass. They kept everything so well maintained. Coming from the kind of home that I had come from, I mean Spelman was like a step-up in terms of living. And so I was just so excited and happy to be there. It was a set-up though, because I had—I don’t even







remember how I got into Staughton Lynd’s class. I can’t remember how they signed us up, but I got into a class with Staughton Lynd and a woman Esther Seton. And it was a history and literature class combined. And Esther Seaton is a Jewish liberal from New York. And of course Staughton Lynd, a peace activist, a Quaker. And they blew my mind. That’s when it all started. It was an American History class and he focused very heavily on African American history, particularly the role of African Americans in this country. I’d never even heard of Reconstruction. And the fact that Blacks had been elected to the congress and state legislatures. It was like “What?” reading W.E.B. DuBois. And then the lit component meant we were reading Richard Wright, Baldwin, people I’d never heard of. Not to mention, the material was just mind-boggling. So this was already beginning to set me up for—I went there with total not knowing anything. Just my mind set on getting this education and joining the middle class. Living this life that I had wanted to live. I’m in this class where they’re just telling me America is a fake, a sham. I’m like, “What?” [Laughter] So that was happening.

The other piece was that my grandmother said, “Soon as you get there, join a church.” A young woman who was a freshman, and we became friends, she was Ralph Abernathy’s sister-in-law. ‘Course, it didn’t mean nothing to me. So when she invited me to go to her sister’s church, Mrs. Juanita Abernathy, which was right up the street, a Baptist church—cause that’s what my grandma said. We were Baptist; I had to join a Baptist church—so it was about three blocks from Spelman. So I’d go with her to her church and I liked the church. And after going a time or two, I joined. So I didn’t know who Abernathy was. I’d heard of Dr. King







because of the Montgomery bus boycott, but I’d never heard of Abernathy. So I didn’t know who he was. So now in the church I’m getting all this Civil Rights information because it was so integrated into his sermons. How we had to fight this thing, we had to change it. Then King is his best friend. He comes to the church and gives sermons. I had joined the choir so we went over to Ebenezer. I heard Dr. King in his pulpit. So that’s why I say it’s a set-up. ‘Cause everything is happening to totally undermine what I had come there thinking and planning. And the Movement was already happening, ‘cause this was in 1962. So the third thing was SNCC. Because the SNCC headquarters were at eight and a half Raymond, which was two and a half blocks from the campus. And they were always on the campus trying to recruit us to go on marches, demonstrations, to come to the office. So I’m getting it from three different angles and here are young people who are my age, who dropped out of college to work full time in the Civil Rights Movement. And so they’re constantly saying things like, “What are you going to be when you get a degree? A nigger with a degree? You still ain’t going to be a citizen.” And all this kind of stuff. And I’m like, “Oh my God. Ooh. Don’t mention it. I don’t want to think about that.” And then on the other hand, Spelman had told us from day one we better not get involved. So even in freshman orientation, you didn’t come here to get into the Civil Rights Movement. You cannot get involved. There’s no marching, demonstrating, or you’re going to lose—if we find out about it, you’re going to lose your scholarship. And if you do it again, you’re going to get kicked out. And then my grandmother, when they dropped me off, said, “We didn’t bring you here to get involved in this mess. Don’t you dare.” So I got these







two very important—the school that I want so badly to be at and my grandmother, who is responsible for me even being there ‘cause my folks wanted me to go to school in Memphis to Le Moyne College. They were like, “There’s no need for you to go off.” That’s my mother and father. “We don’t know what she’ll be doing when she goes off.” And they were not happy. And my grandmother said, “Oh no. She got the scholarship. She’s going. I don’t care what it takes. We gonna come up with the rest of the money.” So I didn’t want to let her down ‘cause she went against them so that I could go. So it was really a very difficult two years there at Spelman. That’s as far as I made it. [Laughter] I didn’t make it any further. [Laughter] And I was getting in trouble more and more. ‘Cause, first of all, back in those days, you could not leave the campus without permission and you had a book that you had to sign in and sign out. And you had a house mother. No RA. This is an older lady who lives in that house with us, watching us like a hawk. And so we knew where we could go and where we could not go. So when I would go to the SNCC office, I then lied on the sign-out sheet. And then I’d have to say I was going to another dorm to visit one of my friends. And then I had to get the friend to say she would back me up if anybody came looking for me. It was all kinds of stuff to be done. Going to the mass meetings at night.

Lying, saying you’re going to the library on Morehouse’s campus. And Mrs.— what was her name?—Gordon. Mrs. Gordon was onto me early. She said, “You go to the library every night I notice.” [Laughter] She was on my case. “Yes ma’am.” We also had a RA and Alice Walker was my RA. She was a year ahead of me. So I let her in on what I was doing, because sometimes people have to let







me in the backdoor, ‘cause I had stayed so late. And Mrs. Gordon would lock the front door. And I could not come past her ‘cause her bedroom and sitting room were right at the front door. So you had to pass her quarters to get down the hall. [Laughter] But there were emergency doors on either end. And there weren’t any cell phones or anything. And the phone was in her place. And we didn’t have phones in the room. So I’m throwing rocks at the window so somebody will look out. So it was really a difficult time to say the least. [Laughter] And then of course by the time I got caught from going to jail, the gig was up then. So I was in big trouble. But somehow, they had done all this talk about throwing us out, but they didn’t throw me out. But what did was they called my grandmother. And my grandmother was threatening to come there and kill me. So that was even worse. [Laughter] But nonetheless, there was also, Howard Zinn was there in Spelman. He would give talks and I would go and hear his talks. And he was really encouraging us to get involved. I met Vincent Harding during that time because he was head of what was called Mennonite House. And on Sundays they would serve meals to college students and we would have discussion groups. I really went there the first time to get a meal, because at Spelman, they didn’t serve hot dinners. They had a lunch and then you took a brown bag to your room for dinner, so those people could have off. That was the only time they had off was on Sunday after twelve. So people were always trying to find somewhere to go get a hot meal. And somebody, since I was very involved with all these movement folks, was saying, “You need to go to Mennonite House. They serve a really good meal. And they’ll pick you up and bring you back.” So that’s when I







met Vincent Harding. ‘Cause I went there to get something to eat, not knowing what I was in for. So it was really—it had to be destiny. It was just too many things. ‘Cause it was not what I had intended at all. And in fact, I really cried a bit because I really didn’t want to give up my education. But yet, over time I was convinced that we had to do this and do it now, while the momentum was going on. And I kept thinking, “Oh my God. I may never get a chance to go to college again.” So it was not an easy decision. And I really hadn’t planned it. I almost—it was tricked, because what happened—Spellman was on me so hard. And I was very close to Staughton Lynd and he said, “You know, you don’t have to go to this school. There’s schools that would love to have you. And they would be happy with your level of engagement and all of that.” So he suggested that I go to Antioch. And Mrs. King went to Antioch. And of course, he asked her would she write me a recommendation. And what was so amazing was that she said, “Well I have to meet her.” So she had me over to the King parsonage for tea, where she basically interviewed me so that she could decide whether she was going to write me a letter of recommendation. So when I went—jumping ahead to Mississippi for the Mississippi Summer—I had not planned to come back to Spelman. But I had already been accepted at Antioch. And Staughton Lynd and I drove to the orientation for the Mississippi Freedom Summer people, which was held in Oxford, Ohio. We went to Antioch on our way so that I had had my on-campus interview. I had seen the place. They were welcoming me. So my plan had been, even though I hadn’t told my grandmother, that I was going to do Mississippi Summer for the summer and then I was going to go off to Antioch. And I was







going to let my grandmother know I got a full scholarship. And it’ll be a place where I won’t have to be sneaking and hiding and being so abused by the administration. Calling me communist and all kinds of crazy stuff. But what happened—I never did get there. Because after the summer was over, I knew I couldn’t leave Mississippi, so I wrote Antioch and asked for an extension, saying that I would come in January. And they granted it. So then January came. I still said, “I can’t leave Laurel.” And they gave me another extension. But after that, I didn’t ask for an extension. I never asked again. I said, “I want to be in the Movement the rest of my life.” [Laughter] “I’m never going back to college.” I really thought that. In fact, I thought I was going to be in Laurel. [Laughter] And the lady that was on the panel with us. The White woman. I thought I was going to be like her. Because she went down there for Mississippi Summer and never left. And you got a few people like that in Mississippi. Particularly, all of them are White. They never left. And that’s what I thought was going to happen to me.

That I would be there organizing for the rest of my life. And of course, some of the regular Mississippi people are still organizing. But that was their home. But some folk, at least three women, who never left Mississippi. They’ve been there since 1964 Mississippi Summer. Yeah, it’s amazing. They really dedicated their life from that point on to the Movement. Amazing, yeah.

	D:	So what was it like? Did you all organize the bus trip? Was it mostly Spelman women that were on the bus?

	S:	To where?



	D:	For Freedom Summer? Or it was a combination?







	S:	Oh no no. I remember only about—let me see. Barbara Simon went. Barbara Walker went. And myself. We are the three African American women from Spelman that went to Mississippi Summer. But there were a number of exchange students because Spelman had an exchange program with Connecticut College for Women, Sarah Lawrence, and Carleton College. And of course those were all White women. And a woman from Connecticut College for Women, a woman from Carleton College—I can’t think of the other woman’s name. Oh yeah, two from Carleton and one from Connecticut. They went. But they went home. See they weren’t sneakin’ like I was trying to do. So they went home and then from home they went to Ohio. My folks, I keep forgetting I didn’t tell you this part—I had planned on just going, ‘cause I knew my grandmother would never give me permission and neither would my folks. They definitely weren’t going to override her. So my plan was that I just wasn’t going home at the end of the spring term of 1964. But I told people, my friends, and the word got back somehow to the dean. So the dean called my grandmother and said, “Your granddaughter’s planning on going to Mississippi with these SNCC folk.” I didn’t know she had called her. So the last day of class, my grandmother, my mother, and my step-father were at the dorm at 6 AM in the morning. And when Ms. Gordon came and knocked on the door, woke me up, she said, “You have company.” They didn’t allow anybody to have any company at six o’clock. I said, “Ms. Gordon, who is it?” “That’s alright, just get up and put on your clothes.” She was mad, ‘cause she knew what was going on. And my roommate, I said, “Smithie, who in the world could that be?” And she was like, “I don’t know.” ‘Cause she knew what was going on in







terms of me planning on—I was already packed and everything. So Ms. Gordon come back, says, “Are you girls up and dressed?” And I said, “Yes ma’am.” She opens the door and there’s my grandmother and my mother. Of course, my step- father couldn’t come. He was up in the lounge. And I was like, “What are you doing here?” And my grandmother’s thing was, “We found out what you were up to. And we’ve come to take you home.” And so that’s what they did. They took me home against my will. And I cried all the way and we drove back to Memphis. And then after we got to Memphis, I was trying to figure out a way to get back to Atlanta. And of course I called SNCC office, talked to Jim Foreman, and told him what had happened. And he said, “We’ll send you the money for a bus ticket.

Just come on back. You’re grown.” ‘Cause I was nineteen. And gonna be twenty in August. But my grandmother intercepted the mail. ‘Cause they sent it to the house and she opened it and tore up the money order. So then I had to call back and say, “My grandmother tore it up.” And he said, “Well don’t you have somewhere where we can send it?” And I said, “Yes.” ‘Cause I had a girlfriend whose parents were very liberal back in those days for us. So they sent the money order to her and I said, “Put it in her name, so she can cash it.” So that’s how I got my bus ticket. When I left, she had a car and she came, my girlfriend, to pick me up. And of course, my grandmother and my mother and my father— my mother was crying. My grandmother was crying. And my father was wanting to beat me. And I was like, “I’m grown and I can leave. You all cannot keep me here. I’m a grown person.” Of course, my grandmother said, “If you leave, don’t ever come back.” So that was how I left. And I basically took the Greyhound and







I cried all the way. [Laughter] I cried all the way. I was like, “Oh God, I don’t have a home now. Suppose this doesn’t work out.” And I think the happiest thing was when I got to the bus stop, there was Dr. Lynd, Staughton Lynd, his wife Alice, and their two little kids, waiting for me. And they saw my face was all swollen.

And they were like hugging me and saying, “You’re going home with us. You’re gonna be okay.” And after a day or so, I was at the SNCC office working, helping to get everything together for Mississippi Summer. Because I had worked with Dr. Lynd, he was one of the major people doing the curriculum for the freedom schools, and I had worked with him as an independent study student working on the curriculum with him. So the plan was for me to be a freedom school teacher. So, like I said, the car was loaded with all the pamphlets and the curriculum and the books and everything. He and I drove to Oxford for the orientation, stopping off at Antioch on our way. And I just thought, “I’ve severed my ties with my family, but this is my new family.” It was a while before I really was able to kind of get back to some kind of a normal relation with my grandmother. In fact, I didn’t even call her. She didn’t know where I was for the longest, ‘cause I wanted to punish her for them being so mean to me. [Laughter] And it was terrible of me to do that, because they heard about the three workers being killed. They didn’t know where I was or anything. It was after Mississippi Summer and I had stayed over that I called and told her where I was. Ms. Spinks was on me about, “You outta be ashamed of yourself, having your parents worry like that. They don’t know if you’re living or dead,” ‘cause I told her. So when I did call, she got on the line and talked to them. Assured them that—she said, “Look. She’s being a good girl. I’m







not having no foolishness here. I’m looking after her like she’s my own daughter. Y’all don’t have to worry. She has to be in here at a certain time. She’s going to church every Sunday.” She really was trying to assure them that I wasn’t just some wild child doing any and everything. So it was quite something. And in fact, I took some of the Laurel people to Memphis the first time I went back to visit.

	D:	So you went from Oxford then to Laurel, Mississippi?



	S:	Yes, yes. The way it worked, we had two weeks and SNCC put me on payroll, getting my ten dollars a week salary, as soon as I got there ‘cause I had no money. So when I got to Atlanta, I was put on to SNCC’s staff. And I was assigned to be at both orientations as a SNCC staff person. Pretty much a gopher. Not having any real serious role. But what happened was you had the first group and probably about four hundred people in that first group and you had the orientation. And then that group went on down to Mississippi. Then you had the second group of four hundred or so. And I was there for both groups. But I knew where I had been assigned and I knew that it was only two other people assigned to Laurel. I was to be the freedom school coordinator and Jimmy Garrett, who’s now—I think he might have retired—but he was a professor at UCLA. African American brother who was first time ever being in the South. And the seasoned SNCC worker was Lester McKinney, who was a Howard University dropout to work full time. He was going to be the project director. But I always like to remind people that I happened to be there for both orientations and so I had met Chaney. I didn’t meet Schwerner. But I met Chaney and Goodman.

They were in the first group, you see. By the middle of the second group’s







orientation, they had already disappeared. And so they called us in. Bob Moses, Jim Foreman, Vincent Harding, Staughton. They were up on the stage. I don’t know who else. They called the whole group in, a plenary session, and they told us that those three had disappeared and that they were dead. Even though nobody had found their bodies or anything. But they said, “There’s no way that they would disappear. They are dead and we want you all to know it.” Well I almost died. ‘Cause that was exactly what my grandmother was saying constantly. “They’re going to get all of you kids killed down there. Those Mississippi Crackers.” That was her thing. “They’re going to kill y’all. That’s the Klan down there. Are you crazy? You’re going down there to do what? Get people registered to vote? Are you out of your mind?” So when I hear—and I thought that maybe we would survive, because most of the volunteers were White. So I didn’t think they would kill White peoples. And that was a shock. ‘Cause Schwerner and Goodman were White guys. And I just kept saying, “They killed White men. Oh my God. Oh those people are crazy.” [Laughter] It was like, “Oh no.” And of course, they said to us that we could go home. And I was like, “I can’t go home. I have to go.” And nobody left. But they did offer. They said, “Nobody’s gonna feel bad if you decide to go home. But we were telling you all how dangerous this assignment is. So hopefully you now see.” And it just created a totally different atmosphere. ‘Cause the atmosphere for the first group: total festivities. Cookouts, singing, guitar strumming, people laying out on the grass. In fact, Ohio, that area, was in an uproar cause the newspapers were saying we were having orgies. Black men and White women. It was like they were outraged







that we were there, integrated young people. Cookouts. The White folk would be sneaking around, watching us and stuff. And I was shocked, ‘cause I thought that once you got above the Mason-Dixon line, you didn’t have this kind of hatred of Black people. In fact, the woman who was from Carleton College, who I had met and been a student with at Spelman, she and I were attacked at a small little convenience store there. And that really blew my mind. Because they said, “There go two of them Freedom Riders.” And these White men chased us from the store and we were fortunate that we actually got to her Volkswagen and got in it. But because there was so many of them, the Volkswagen couldn’t take off. They literally held it. And the only thing that saved us was that a car of SNCC guys, not looking for us or anything, but they had just come to the store. And when they got out of their car and saw what was going on, they ran over there and jumped these White guys. [Laughter] So I’m like, “I’m going to get killed before I even get to Mississippi.” [Laughter] So I was stunned. And they were calling her a nigger lover and me a nigger. It was awful. And if those guys hadn’t come up, I don’t know. They could have maybe broken the window. I don’t know. But that was also shocking, that these were men willing to hurt us and we were two women. It wasn’t like I was a Black guy. And they were still incensed. Yeah, it was really scary.

	D:	And what part of Ohio was this? S:	Oxford.

	D:	This is Oxford.







	S:	Amazing, racist area. In fact, we were at a school called Western College for Women and as a result of that college hosting, that college went out of business. Oh yeah. And I didn’t learn that until many years later. But the trustees and all, they were livid with the president and the administration. They fired them. It was horrible. Yeah, and that was something I only learned when I went up there for, I guess it was in 1994, and that would have been the, what, thirtieth anniversary. They had to have the anniversary at Miami University, because that school was no longer in existence. And that’s when I learned what happened. The school was actually closed. It was a private women’s college. Racism is deep.

	D:	Deep.



	S:	This is the great North, right?



	D:	So what was it like when you arrived in Laurel, Mississippi?



	S:	That was the other thing that was so scary. First of all, three Blacks. And they told us that, “Well, we can’t send any Whites in there, because it’s too dangerous.” So here I’m going, “Oh my God” again, I’m learning. “What do you mean it’s too dangerous? I thought that was the whole idea that Whites were going to come in and bring the eyes of the world onto Mississippi, so that it would be safe for all of us.” And they said, “Well you’ll never get things off the ground if we send Whites in there, ‘cause there was no infrastructure.” Unlike in Greenwood, Hattiesburg, Meridian, you already had groups very organized, waiting to receive us volunteers. We didn’t have that in Laurel. In fact, we couldn’t even stay in Laurel. So our housing was in Hattiesburg, thirty miles south of Laurel, and we would have to drive up to try and find people who would want







to house us and be a part of the movement. And that’s when Ms. Spinks comes in. Because we had names of NAACP people, that’s all. And we went door to door knocking, trying to see if people would let us in and talk to us. So I had Ms. Spinks on my list and went and knocked on the door. I was still a little hesitant and I was like, “Are you Ms. Spinks?” And she said, “Yes.” And I was kind of stumbling and we had on our blue jeans and the uniform. She said, “Are you one of those Freedom Riders?” And I didn’t know if that was good or bad. And I sort of said, “Yes ma’am.” And she said, “Come on in here I’ve been waiting on you all my life.” So that was the beginning of the Laurel movement, because she was like waiting. And she was in her fifties. She said, “What do you need? What do we need to do?” And I start explaining everything, that we had to have housing, so did she know anybody who would take us in? She said, “You can stay here with me.” And I said, “Well, there’s two guys with me.” And she said, “Well my neighbor will put them up.” She said, “I’ll call her right now.” I said, “Well our stuff is down in Hattiesburg.” She said, “Go get it and bring it back.” So that was the beginning of the Laurel movement. Yeah, she was amazing. She was the backbone that got us going. She called the NAACP people and you know. Our first office was on the back porch of her neighbor, because nobody would rent any property to us. And when it would rain, we’d have to bring in the mimeograph machine. And this lady had a lovely home, ‘cause she was saying we could put it in her dining room. We were like, “No. This ink and stuff will get on your beautiful—“ She had a lovely home for a person who had been a domestic, but as it turned out, her husband I think had worked as a porter and so they made







good money back in those days. And we were like—I particularly was trying to take care of her house, ‘cause I knew what that must have meant to her to have a home that was so lovely for a person who was not a professional. That was one of my main things, was take care of Miss Clayton’s house. We cannot abuse her house, which she just opened up to us. Her phone was the office phone. ‘Cause it took us a while to get a phone put in. But of course, what happened once we got set up, the COFO as it was called, the Council of Federated Organizations, they had volunteers ready to send. So we said, “Well we got to get housing.” And so that was Ms. Spinks’ job, to get on the phone and get the housing, amongst other things. The churches, trying to find us a place to rent.

She was the one that contacted this pretty wealthy businessman who had this old dance hall that was boarded up, hadn’t been used. And she twisted his arm and he rented it to us for an exorbitant amount. It wasn’t even livable. We had to rebuild the place basically. And still he was charging money for some old place that was not even—it had to re-wired. The electricians in the community re-wired the place. We had to put a roof on there. We built this man’s place. He ought to have been ashamed of himself. And he was very well off. He had no feelings for the movement. He was just straight up capitalist. But she was the one that got that open. She was the one that got the churches to let us have the mass meetings. So she was a dynamo. I mean really. And of course there were others. But she was the catalyst that sparked everything there in Laurel. Yeah.

	D:	And how long did you all stay in Laurel? S:	Well I wound up staying sixteen months.







	D:	Wow. So you went from one summer to sixteen months? [Laughter]



	S:	That’s why I thought I’d be there the rest of my life. [Laughter] We had successes there, but then the Klan did firebomb that place and the fire department wouldn’t put it out. By that time, it was a very nice structure. And we had a library in there. ‘Cause a lot of the White volunteers—and most of them were. We had twenty- three, a total of twenty-three volunteers in Laurel. And they were calling back home to their parents and friends. People were sending us books so that we could stock our library and freedom school. We had two freedom school sites there in Laurel. One operated out of that building, because we’d put partitions up so we could have some classrooms separate from our meeting room and our library. So they burned that. They firebombed it. And they let it burn. They didn’t come and put it out. So that was a great loss to us. Then we were able to rent a little shotgun place that had a—it was a duplex and there was a family. A man and his wife and maybe three or four children. And that always concerned me, in case somebody was going to firebomb them. We had people living in the place. See, nobody lived in that first place. But then two of the guys—and this is post- the summer—two of the volunteers who were African Americans from Mississippi who were from Hattiesburg, they sent work. Cause the volunteers other than myself and two White women from California, we were the ones that stayed after the summer. And then COFO/SNCC sent us these two high school young men who had been kicked out of high school in Hattiesburg for their involvement in the movement. So they sent them to work with us. And so we were five people. Then







another guy, who was also a Mississippian, was sent from the Delta. So that was our staff until we actually closed down the project. Yeah, it was quite a time.

	D:	Did the goal remain the same? Was it always voter registration?



	S:	Well, we organized the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party. We did the mock voter registration, which was a part of the effort to show to the Democrats that we were the real Democrats and preparing for the Mississippi Challenge. So we were able to get our Jones County chapter of the MFDP. We did our—are we still recording?

	D:	Yeah, we’re still good.



	S:	And we had two freedom school sites. We also had a freedom nursery, which was kind of a unique thing. Because we had a couple of young women who were pre-school teachers and that’s what they wanted to do. And we found there was a, what do you call it? Federal housing, I don’t know if it was federal, but a housing project. And it had a community center. So they were able in that community center to set up what we called our freedom daycare. And that made people very happy. A lot of women could leave their children and go and do things and stuff like that. We were canvassing for people who would try to go down and register to vote. As well as the mock registration that was a part of— the whole plan was to show the Democratic Party that we had thousands of people across the state who participated in the mock voter registration and we also could show them that we tried to get them registered in the regular system, but either they shut down or they’d always say they didn’t pass the application form and all that madness. So that was the primary work of the project that we







carried on for the next year and three months. We still kept the freedom schools going that whole time. The Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party had took on a life of its own. The people took that and ran with it. We had people who were in a Masonite plant there. That was one of the positive things about being in Laurel because she had a fairly substantial unionized population: Black men who were Masonite workers and they were in the union. So they already knew how to organize and they loved this Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party idea. So they really ran with that. And of course, we also did literacy training, ‘cause a lot of people really were illiterate. So if you’re going to get them registered to vote, you’ve got to be able to teach them basic reading and writing. So that was a part of it. We also distributed food and clothing. ‘Cause that was a part of the state- wide work. You’d get these clothes people were sending. And we’d give them to people who needed them. We’d get foodstuffs. We’d give those out. And that really built people’s trust in the group. It was so many things that we learned, that we needed to be doing now. If we’re talking about some serious organizing, I mean we shouldn’t just let those lessons go. ‘Cause there are plenty of people— you know all these food banks and stuff? And I’m happy that they’re there, but the movement could be a movement that’s got a political agenda, could be running things like that. Because if I learned one thing when I was in the Middle East, that’s how the Muslim Brotherhood—I mean they are a social service. They got a political wing, they got a military wing. But the way they get people into their networks, they help people. And I don’t know why we think that we shouldn’t be doing that, given how many of our people are out of work, up against it. And so







when you come to get your food, you gon’ get some political education along with it. [Laughter] One of the things that—and I’m really jumping ahead—a part of the National Council of Elders. You know this is some of the stuff that we really want to be doing. First of all, putting in some format some of these lessons and working to start doing some of these things that we learned were very beneficial. We should have never given up freedom schools. And I know even after years later, I certainly was involved with organizing freedom schools in Philadelphia.

And I’m so happy that Marian Wright Edelman, her group, Children’s Defense Fund, they have a large freedom school operation going that operates every summer. But one of the great things about what we were doing, we had a number of things. We got a freedom school, you got a—I don’t think we’re talking about electoral politics necessarily, but we ought to have some kind of political arm, even if it’s only thing is to push people into the Democratic Party who have our agendas, who are then responsible to us. It’s just amazing how all the stuff we’ve learned, it’s not being replicated, taught, carried forward. It’s very sad. ‘Cause we learned a lot about how to organize. And yet it’s these breaks. And so then you have to start all over again from scratch. We shouldn’t have to do that. And of course, there’re reasons that that happens. The system definitely doesn’t want us having that continuity. So they’d do anything to undermine it.

	D:	Including giving us public education. [Laughter] S:	Exactly, exactly.

	D:	So why did it ultimately close down? You said you were there for sixteen months initially.







	S:	Well what happened in the case of the Klan really started a reign of terror there in Jones County. Cross-burnings, threats, and all of that. Plus basically, I was worn out. And the last hurrah for me was we were organizing a massive demonstration in Jackson. And I really hope to do some research to find out again what we were organizing for, because at one demonstration, a thousand of us were arrested in Jackson, Mississippi, right outside the state capitol building. And there were so many of us that they basically were hauling us in garbage trucks and stuff. The paddy-wagons, they didn’t have enough of them. And they took us to the fairgrounds and put us in basically places where when the fair comes to town, they would keep the livestock. ‘Cause the jails could not hold all of us. So I was there for fifteen days and I really think I pretty much suffered maybe a mild breakdown. They harassed us, tormented us. And I was already tired from just trying to stay alive that whole time, trying to keep a project going and all. But when I got out of that lock-up, and of course I had seen two people beaten almost to death, which just—that was shocking. Even though you’ve been hit and all this, but in this case, they tried to kill this woman. Because what happened was she was from Harmony, Mississippi. I thought she was dead when they took her out. But what happened was they were constantly tormenting us. They wouldn’t let us sleep. So they would keep us awake with loud screeching noises and loud music. They’d make us stand up one, two o’clock in the morning. Then sit back down on basically floor. It was nothing, because this is where they kept the livestock, right. And get up. Get down. Get up. Get down. Well this was a heavy-set lady. And she was just sick and tired of it. So when you wouldn’t get







up, the men, and they were all men who were right in there with us—so it wasn’t like you were in a jail. They were inside this enclosure with us, constantly messing with us. Jugging us with sticks. So in this case, they poked her and said, “Get up nigger.” And she grabbed the stick out of the man’s hand and came up between his legs. He screams in pain and then these White guys come over there and they just beat her to a bloody pulp. I know I had tremendous guilt that we didn’t do anything. We just sort of stood there, the women, and it was a lot of us, I don’t know what might have happened if we had jumped them. But we outnumbered them. Whether they would have come in there and blown us away, but I felt tremendous guilt. And I thought she was dead, ‘cause she was unconscious when they took her out. So that was very devastating. Then the other thing that I really just was so terrible to me was we had a lot of the teenagers just saw us marching through the Black neighborhood, marching toward the state capitol. And people just jumped off their porches with their slides on and wound up getting arrested. And so we had a lot of young girls in there, maybe thirteen, fourteen, and there was some sexual assaults that went on in there with these White men. And that also just blew me away. Of these young girls. So when I got out, I was a mess. I was in bad shape. But I didn’t know it.

And so I had two automobile accidents back to back. And I was definitely the cause. I just drove right through a red light. ‘Cause I now know it was PTS. And of course when Jim Foreman found out, he called me and he said, “You know what? You got to come out of there right now.” And I said, “I can’t leave. I can’t leave Ms. Spinks, Ms. this-one. We can’t just leave.” And he said, “If you are







winding up in a mental institution, what good are you going to do them?” And I said, “I’m going to be alright. I just go down to the New Orleans and take—“He said, “No, you’re coming out.” Well, when he said I had to come out, well the two White women who had been there all that time with me, they said, “Well if you’re leaving, we’re leaving.” And then there was a Ulysses Everett—the guys who had been kicked out of high school. I didn’t want to leave them. And Charles Hartfield. I said, “We can’t leave them. There’s no way we’re going to just leave them here.” So then I started calling all these people who had been with us that summer and some of them came back that second summer saying, “Y’all got to find a place for Ben and Charles to go to school.” And that’s exactly what happened. They got placements, families that were willing to take them in and send them to high school. So when that was straight, I felt I could leave. Cause they had somewhere to go. Where the other two were women with families back in California. But it was very, very hard. Lots of crying. “Ms. Spinks, I’ll be back. I just got to go and try to get myself together.” And she was like, “I know you’re coming back.” Cause the two White women and myself lived with Ms. Spinks all that time. Yeah, so she was like our mother. So Jim Foreman said, “I’m bringing you to New York. Just to let you stay here for a couple of months. And you can go back.” But before I went back, Julian Bond got kicked out of the Georgia State Legislature for having been the name on the press release that went out against the war in Vietnam. And that was the excuse that they used in the Georgia State Legislature to deny him his duly elected seat. So then Foreman says, “I need you to come to Atlanta to help organize his reelection campaign.” So instead of going







back to Laurel—and I’m not sure I would have gone, because everybody was gone. It would have just been me going back in terms of being the SNCC person. So I get sent to Atlanta instead. And that was the Atlanta project of SNCC, which was my last major organizing work with SNCC. Yeah. And then basically I was there ‘til—I guess that was [19]68. The beginning of [19]68.

	D:	And then you went back to school after?



	S:	No, I didn’t back to school ‘til the eighties. I went to work for the National Council of Negro Women. That was my first real job. Because the National Council of Negro Women wanted to hire organizers. They got this big grant from the Ford Foundation to organize low-income women for social change. It was called Project Woman Power. And so another activist had the job of being the Southern coordinator, and because I was there in Atlanta, I used to help her with contacts and all that. So when she found out that SNCC was really on the ropes because after Black Power and all of that, our money dried up and a lot of people were leaving the organization and stuff. So she said, “You might want to come and work for the National Council of Negro Women. They have a job opening for what they were calling a regional coordinator.” And I said, “Well where would I have to go?” And she said, “To the Midwest.” I said, “Where?” She said, “You’d be based in Chicago.” Well I had a dear aunt there. But I was already married at that point, to Michael Simmons, who was also in SNCC and had been assigned to work in Atlanta. That’s where we met. So Michael had a brother there. So he was game. So I said, “Yeah, I want to apply.” So I did apply, was interviewed by Dorothy Height, and got the job. So we left Atlanta and went to Chicago to live. And I was







the Midwest field coordinator for Project Woman Power and I had several cities. Of course, I was organizing women in Chicago, Detroit, Cleveland, and Elyria, Ohio. And Lorraine, Ohio too. So I had five cities. So I had a leased car and I would drive to my cities. And after I got to know people, I basically stayed in their homes with them and helped to train them about how to organize your communities. We had what we called our vanguard women: the three sort of most charismatic and well-connected women. And we flew them to Washington for intensive training and organizing in African American history and stuff like that. And then those women became your key organizers in each city. And then I worked with them to organize other women and to put on events and things like that to help the community. So that was another incredible experience. I did that for two years.

	D:	So it sort of had a SNCC model then? The National Council of Negro Women?



	S:	Well basically ‘cause so many of us from SNCC got recruited into it. So we brought in our knowledge of organizing. But it was like Chicago, Detroit. It was different from being in the South. Boy, was that some learning. You couldn’t do it like you did it in Laurel. You had to work with sort of existing organizations to find these women. And then it was a process of really finding the ones that were most dedicated. Not somebody who thought they were going to just get something out of this. It was very interesting. I had much more success in the small cities. Like Lorraine, Ohio. Elyria. Detroit was a hard, hard. In Chicago, I had to go over on the west side, south side. I couldn’t get anything going. So I started organizing on the west side over there. It was hard work. And then the travel, which was just







unrelenting. And you basically operated out of your own home. We didn’t set up offices or anything. All the money was to be used for training these women. I’m trying to think of his name. I know you would know it if I could. We would bring in these three incredible African and African American study historians. Trying to think of this man whose name is just escaping me. I guess he died about five years ago and before he passed away he lost his sight.

	D:	John Henrik Clarke?



	S:	Yes. Oh, I got to work with him for two years. Boy, just because this was a big part of it. Teaching African American and African history. So teaching the women and then setting up workshops to teach in those communities. It had a very serious cultural component. We went into African dance and drumming. So it brought together things that really hadn’t been so big in SNCC, because in the North, you needed a more kind of a nationalistic to really get the young peoples’ attention. And so we used African dance classes, drumming classes to get young people involved with what we were doing. John Henrik Clarke. God, that man. I never saw him look at a note. [Laughter] He had all of this knowledge in his head. And he could just talk on and on. I was just so happy that I got to spend some serious time with him. And there were two others. Keith E. Baird was another one, who’s not as well known, but also just an excellent historian. They traveled in threes. There were three of them. And we had them on a roll, cause they—we had a Southern operation and my girlfriend was the head of that. And then we had a West coast operation. And a Northeast. And that person was headquartered in Boston. I was headquartered in Chicago. The woman in the







South was headquartered in Atlanta. And then we had a person in LA. Yeah, it was really quite something.

	D:	I know time is flying.



	S:	Yeah. How much does this? It’s a digital, right?



	D:	Yeah, it’s a digital. So I think it’s about three hours.



	S:	Well I don’t know, whatever—if you have any wrap up questions. I’ve been all over the map here.

	D:	Nah, it’s good. I guess we could fast-forward to today. I guess if you can kind of speed through what happened after National Council of Negro Women.

	S:	After the National Council of Negro Women, I went to work for the American Friends Service Committee. And I worked for them for twenty-three years. And my first assignment was as the assistant project director in a project called the Project on Government Surveillance and Citizens’ Rights. And that was an incredible thing to do right after leaving the movement. Because the focus of that was to look at the role of the intelligence agencies in undermining the social justice movements in this country. And that was a travelling job for me. Because as the assistant director, I traveled all across the country interviewing people who had been in the movement, getting them to get their freedom of information files. And I was working with people from the Black Panthers, from the American Indian Movement. From the Brown Berets. As well as the ACLU, the National Lawyers Guild. What was so shocking was how the Quakers had been infiltrated by the FBI. And under the Freedom of Information Act, many of the Friends meetings, I mean their churches, to get their files. And all of them had agent







provocateurs in them. And the AFSC offices had agent provocateurs. So you can just imagine the US organization, I interviewed a lot of the people in US. The Panthers were just riddled with FBI agents fomenting dissension. They were often the ones getting people to buy into having guns, getting people to be angry with one another like the shoot outs between the Panthers and the US organization, this was all FBI and the Red Squads. The LA Red Squads. And of course they killed Fred Hampton. I interviewed Fred Hampton’s girlfriend, who went—

	D:	Wow. She was in the room with him when he was?



	S:	Yeah, yeah. And they took me because at that point the place where he had been shot and all, that was still there. So they could show you how the bullets had all come from outside into the—yeah, that was really something, that job. And then what really blew me away was that when I got to LA, ‘cause I was traveling—you know I’d be out on the road for six months, and then I’d go back to Philly. But when I was in LA and I was staying at a hotel and clearly it was either the FBI or the Red Squads, when I came back to my hotel room, it was just torn up. All my papers. Cassette tapes, they had torn the tapes out. Like scared me to death. Cause I thought they were going—they knew what they were doing and it was to scare me. So then from that point on I didn’t stay in hotels. The Quakers would have to put me up with a family. Because I was like “They are on me. They know what I’m doing.” [Laughter]

	D:	You probably got files.



	S:	Oh I know. Oh yes, no question.







	D:	Have you tried to check and see?



	S:	I did get some of my files. But my ex-husband has gotten all of his files. And of course, I’m all through his file. But yeah, that was quite a job. But I did that work for them for two years and then I left that program, but I was still with AFSC. Like I said, twenty-three years. That’s a long time. So I got to go to Vietnam and Cambodia and Mexico. All of those was a part of my work with the Friends. So that was an incredible—I was in Vietnam pretty much right after the end of the hostilities. I saw what this country did to Vietnam. There wasn’t a bridge left standing in the country. We had just bombed the infrastructure. I was so ashamed. I didn’t even want anybody to know I was an American, because the suffering of the people was so intense when we were there. I went with of course a Quaker delegation, but we were the first Americans to go into Cambodia after the fall of Pol Pot. So I actually saw the killing fields. The skulls, the mountains of bones and all that were there in Phnom Penh. That was a scary thing. And to talk to the survivors. I mean Phnom Penh was a total—there was nobody there. We were flown in on a Vietnam plane. ‘Cause the Vietnamese had been the ones that routed him, but the fighting was still going on while we were there, because he had not been captured. That was a very dangerous assignment. And of course, I got to China. It was just incredible to be able to work for the friends during that time. So to come fast forward, I started back to school toward the end of my years at AFSC. I finally got back and did Antioch, but by that time, Antioch had all these satellites. So I actually got my BA from Antioch, after all those years. [Laughter] But a Philadelphia Antioch. And I had no intention of going







beyond that. I just finally wanted to show my grandmother that—in fact when I called her and invited her to come to my graduation, she said, “I’m not coming.” And I said, “But I’m graduating.” And she said, “It’s about time.” That was her thing. But it just so happened that I was speaking on Dr. King’s birthday at a friend’s school there in Philadelphia and the other person that was on the panel with me, someone I did not know, was John Raines. And as it turned out, he had been one of the Freedom Riders, a White man. He was on that bus in Aniston that they set on fire and all. He was there telling that story and I was there telling the story of Mississippi and SNCC. So of course, we were meeting for the first time on the panel and as it turned out, he was chairperson of the religion department at Temple. And he said, “I want you to come up to Temple and tell your story to my graduate students who are taking a class on the Civil Rights Movement.” So that was how I first set foot there on Temple in that capacity. And then he invited me to sit in on the class whenever I had time. And then from there he started saying, “Why don’t you think about going back to school?” And I said, “I just finished school.” He said, “I’m talking about grad school.” I was like, “I don’t think I wanna go to grad school. Why would I do that?” And he said, “Oh, you should think about teaching.” I was like, “Oh no no, I don’t wanna teach.” [Laughter] So anyway, he was the one. He said, “Well just take one class.” So he little by little pulled me in. And when I took the class, I enjoyed it so much. So basically he was like, “We can get you a fellowship and pay you.” And I started teaching as a TA right away, because as a fellow that’s a part of the fellowship.

And so that’s how I got back to school. Again, it was not a plan of mine. And it







basically took me ten years because I never gave up my AFSC job, so I could only go part-time. But anyway, I did that right up until I had finished the master’s and then sort of on a whim, applied for a Fulbright. I said, “No way am I going to get it.” And when I got it, my mind was so blown. And that’s when I went off to Jordan and I lived there for two years doing dissertation research. And the reason that I got to Jordan was because when I applied, I went up to the New York Fulbright office and told them that I wanted to do it on women and Islamic law. And I said, “Where can I go?” And they said, “You wanna go in the Arab world?” And I said, “Yes.” And they said, “Well they’re not going to let you in in Egypt. Saudi and all of those places are totally out.” And they said, “Maybe Jordan or Syria.” And I said, “Well which one would you suggest I apply for?” And they said, “Jordan.” So that’s why. And the reason that I decided to do women and Islam was because as a AFSC, I had gone to Beijing for the fourth UN conference on women. And while I was there, I sort of hung out with the Muslim women from all over. And all of them were saying that that was the thing that was oppressing them the most, was Islamic law. So that’s when I decided that’s what I wanted to do. ‘Cause I didn’t know that. And they kept saying Sharia law, Sharia. And I kept saying, “Well what’s Sharia?”

	D:	Who is she? [Laughter]



	S:	And that’s how I got to Jordan and then stayed there for two years. ‘Cause I got a Fulbright and then I got an AMERTA, which was another eight months. And I stretched it so that I could stay for two years. Then I come back to the States and I’m trying to finish up everything, my exams for Arabic, my exams for French, and







to take my qualifying exams. I got this job before I had written the first chapter of the dissertation. So that was totally unexpected. So that’s how I got here. Yeah, I was still thinking about the dissertation and I kept thinking, “Oh my god, I got a job. I got to write this thing.” ‘Cause I came in as a visiting professor and had two years to do the dissertation. That’s what they gave me. So that was a real marathon, too. But I had so much research. It was just a matter of trying to organize it. ‘Cause I had been there a long time doing research. So that’s the story.

	D:	Well thank you Dr. Simmons again for everything.



	S:	You’re more than welcome. More than you wanted to know I’m sure. [Laughter] D:	Oh no, definitely there’s more I wanted to ask. We can save that for another time. S:	Okay. All right, Justin.

[End of transcript]





	Transcribed by:	Anupa Kotipoyina, September 1, 2017 Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, September 25, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019