AAHP 165; Smith; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 165 Monica Smith

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Ryan Morini on March 12, 2011 2 hours, 52 minutes | 74 pages



Abstract: Monica Smith is a White woman interviewed for AAHP because she ended up becoming one of the co-founders of the Pleasant Street Historic Society (PSHS). Growing up, she lived in multiple countries, went to college in Greensburg, Pennsylvania, worked at the Library of Congress in DC after graduation, and then moved to New Hampshire with her husband, where they fixed up a home from the 1740s and she learned about historic preservation. When her husband got a job in Gainesville in 1978 at the University of Florida, she began to learn about the destruction of old Black-owned homes in historic neighborhoods of Gainesville, and became involved in fighting it through a call for the enforcement of historic preservation laws and policies. She describes the process of collaborating with 5th Avenue neighborhood residents to get the Pleasant Street Historic District onto the National Register of Historic Places, and talks about some of the activities of the PSHS. She also discusses her experiences with and observatiosn on race relations in Gainesville, and some of the city projects and development projects she was involved with over the years.





[Keywords: African American History; Historic Preservation; Heritage; Alachua County, Florida]



































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 165

Interviewee: Monica Smith Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: March 12, 2011



	M:	This is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. I’m here on March 12, 2011—I almost said ten. It’s amazing how quickly this is going—with Monica Smith. Is that correct?

	S:	Yes.



	M:	Yes. All right, so let’s just start with when you were born. S:	Okay, I was born in 1941 in Germany.

	M:	In Germany?



	S:	In Germany.



	M:	Oh wow.



	S:	Then I was taken to Austria. After the war, we were thrown out of Austria and returned to Germany. And about four years after that, my mother decided that she did not like it there and wanted to emigrate to the United States, so she took me and we landed in Los Angeles. We landed in a neighborhood of mostly Polish immigrants but also some African Americans. And they had a little commercial sector that was run by merchants. Merchants who were rather offensive in that they had a habit—and this is important—they had a habit of having one price on the shelves and then when customers came up to the checkout cash register, they would quote another price. To an eight year or nine year old who had just come and had just learned the language and who was in school and who was very proud of her math skills, this was very insulting. I say that because many years later—I didn’t live in California for very long. We moved to San Francisco, and then we moved to Chile in South America and then we landed in Spanish





Harlem, and then we landed in the South Bronx in New York, so I was not in Los Angeles very long. However, when Watts went up in flames, I was sitting on the East Coast and I thought it was long overdue, okay, ‘cause I was still resentful about the stores. So one year my husband and I and our family spent in San Diego, we went up to Los Angeles to see whether or not in fact the stores had burnt, and they did, and they were still boarded up. And I was glad. [Laughter] Okay so that—

	M:	Fair enough.



S:  That was a bit of resentment there, right? That was a proud year. Then I lived in—we moved after I was—well I went to college in Pennsylvania, I got a job in Washington D.C. at the Library of Congress—

M:   Where did you go to college? Sorry?



	S:	Greensburg, Pennsylvania, at a small Catholic women’s college. M:	Okay, okay.

	S:	Where we had to wear a hose and high heels to go down to town and white gloves. Very proper. So from there, I went to Washington D.C. because I had been training myself to go into the Foreign Service; this is what I wanted to do. I spoke any number of languages. I’d studied French and Russian in addition to the normal Latin in school so I had German, Spanish, French, Russian, and English. However, I was introduced to some people in the Foreign Service in my junior year in college and I discovered that in order to be in the Foreign Service, one had to like to play tennis and go to cocktail parties, both of which are occupations which I despise. So I decided no, can’t go into the Foreign Service.





So I looked for a job and the job I got was at the Library of Congress where I, soon after landing there, I met my husband to be who was at Georgetown University at that point. And then within the year, well within two years, he got a job in New Hampshire, so we moved to rural—well, it wasn’t really rural, it was sort of suburban New Hampshire, fifty miles north of Boston. What was going on in New Hampshire at that time was urban renewal and historic preservation. The historic preservation movement was quite strong and everyone was interested in it. And we ourselves fixed up a house that had originally been built in 1740, and so I had an appreciation for old houses and for redoing old houses. And then, after living there for some number of years, and then moving to New York state, where urban renewal was also in full swing and where the hollowing out of the downtowns had begun, part of that involved moving all of the schools out of the inner city and onto the fringes into the suburbs. I guess because the economy was slowing and the builders needed something to do. But anyway, there was this move, this hollowing out of the cities in central New York State. So we went back to New Hampshire for a couple of years and then my husband got a job in Gainesville, Florida, which is how we arrived here in 1977, and discovered that it was rather difficult for people to buy houses in town. We went through a number of realtors, probably three or four, trying to get them to show us houses in town. They were wanting to know how much money you made and then they wanted to settle you somewhere in the suburb, which we did not wanna do. My husband drove around with a realtor and went by a house that was three blocks from the university and had a ‘for sale’ sign outside in front and had a ‘for sale’ sign that—





the ‘for sale’ sign was for the company whose representative was driving my husband around, and my husband said, “Well, I’d like to see that house.” And the fellow said, “Oh, no. I can’t show that to you. We have an offer on it.” Now, having bought houses a number of times, we knew that that sentence was really not significant. And so my husband said, “Well I have no more time for you.” and left that agent and called somebody else and said, “There’s this house that’s on multiple listing. I wanna see it.” That’s how we got into the house with another realtor and that’s how we decided we were gonna buy that house. Then we went to the bank to get a mortgage, and we were interviewed by a young African American vice president for the bank who proceeded to tell us that he was not sure that the bank could give us a mortgage for a house in that neighborhood.

And I said, “What are you talking about? Why?” Well, it seemed that in the early [19]70s, the students had—now we’re into 1978—in the early [19]70s there had been some ruckus by the students, and so therefore that neighborhood was perhaps not a place where they wanted to give mortgages. I said you have got to be kidding, because I had acquired—my interest in urban renewal, I had gotten some books, and I knew what the law was and that you could not deny people mortgages on the basis of where they want to live, nor could you deny them insurance on the basis of where the house—you had to take the people’s qualifications to make a loan into account. He went back and talked to his supervisor and he came back and said, well yes, they could give us a mortgage. And I said, “Fine.” Then in addition to that, the house needs a lot of renovation, it needs new electric plumbing, and it needs a new roof, so therefore we’re gonna





wanna borrow more than the purchase price of it in order to pay for these renovations. So they had to agree to that, too, which they did. Then, as we went about getting estimates for the work that needed to be done—we were not gonna do roofing ourselves. My husband contacted a number of enterprises and said that we’d like to have an estimate. And the number of times we were told, “Oh we don’t have to come out and look at it, ‘cause we’ve already given an estimate to”—turned out it had been the realtor that had been listing the house, who had been getting estimates I guess in expectation of turning the whole thing, acquiring it, not selling it, keeping it for himself, and turning it into a rental. So that’s how we were introduced to the machinations that we were going on in the real estate market in Gainesville, Florida, which was exactly the same as what was happening in other parts of the country, okay. Chislers. Anyway, once we were in our house, and I was interested in what was going on in the community, and I walked from my house to downtown, I went through a neighborhood where there were a lot of placards on the houses saying that this house is going to be vacated. The house was condemned, the house needed to be removed. I called up City Hall and I said, “What’s going on? Why are these houses being placarded?” I was transferred and the young woman I talked to said to me that, well, there’s urban renewal, and these houses were gonna have to be torn down, because they were all decrepit. I said, “Well, why can’t they just be repaired?

Rebuilt?” She said, “Oh no, we can’t do that, they’re too old, they’re rotten, there’s termites” or whatever, and I said, “Well, I’ve got a lot of experience with restoring old houses, so that’s why I’m asking.” And then said, “You know in New





England, houses that looked just like these, cottages on the coast, Cape Cod and places, are being restored and fetching wonderful prices.” And she said, “Oh well but up there, everything is built out of brick.” At that point, I knew that we had a town preservation planner who really did not know what she was talking about. So I started looking into what was going on and inquiring about which houses were being targeted for removal, and what the process was, and then there was a hearing that was held, a community hearing that was scheduled for A. Quinn Jones, which now turns out to have been one of the Rosenwald schools, which we didn’t know at that time. They had a community meeting there to discuss the redevelopment plan and which houses were gonna be demolished. Now, the thing is that it was going forward in stages, so part of it had already started for the West, that is west of Sixth Street, and well actually probably even west of Eight Street or Ninth Street. They had torn some things down and they had rebuilt, they built some two story rental houses. And the community was not happy with what had been done because they were not appreciative of the fact that their houses, that they had been suckered into moving out of their house, selling their houses, moving out of their houses, and then they weren’t pleased with what was put in their place. And so when this community meeting was held in order to invite—to explain what was gonna happen further on, the rest of the area, all of a sudden, there was a great inpouring of people. That is there were people from the neighborhood, but there were relatives, there were grandsons, and granddaughters, and cousins, and nephews, and grandnephews who were arriving from Michigan, and Illinois, and I think somebody even came from as far





away as Oregon, to stand up for their ancient aged and aging relatives and say, “We don’t want their homes to be destroyed.” It was really quite, it was really impressive. I don’t know if I knew you at that point when I went to that meeting, but I was really—I mean here were all of these people, they had obviously flowed into Gainesville from all over the country. They were all impeccably dressed and obviously well—they had lots of assets to just get on a plane and fly south. That was impress—so I went and I looked some more at what was being planned, and then the thing that I noticed was that it was all the owner-occupied, or family- occupied, homes that were slated for acquisition and demolition. The rental shacks in the area were going to be permitted to go on as before. So, I went and I started looking up, researching the records, and there were lots of records in the basement of the county courthouse. I went to property records, I went to census records, I went to voting records, I went to minutes of old meetings and what I discovered was that at the very beginning of the history of the city of Gainesville, when it was incorporated after the Civil War in 1869, three of the nine people who petitioned for the incorporation of the city of Gainesville were African Americans. Those African Americans continued to be active in the community and in the county, holding various kinds of governmental positions as Gainesville got going and the Gainesville got bigger, and Gainesville got streets, and Gainesville got street lights, and Gainesville got a little city trolley, these people continued to be in office in one form or another. Until about 1884, when the Ku Klux Klan raised its head all over the South and managed to start to take apart what had been accomplished, probably because they were jealous of what





had been accomplished. All of these people that aren’t supposed to know how to do anything, did all of this, and the only place that you couldn’t find any of this—is this sugar?

	D:	Yes ma’am.



	S:	Okay.



	D:	You don’t taste it? It’s some kind of brown sugar. S:	Okay, brown sugar.

	M:	I guess I should introduce you, too, that’s Donna Drake in the background.



	S:	Okay, yes, poor Donna got sucked into all of this with me. Anyway, where was I?



The only place you couldn’t find any of these people was in the histories. You couldn’t find—and part of that was because the histories that had been written in the twentieth century were based on, largely, on newspaper reports. The newspapers, it turned out, were newspapers that had been saved by people who thought that they were saving because there was something of significance to them in them. The newspapers that had been started by the African American community were long defunct. There were no records. Besides that, Gainesville has the unfortunate history of the downtown having been burnt down three times. I think it’s three times. So a lot of stuff got lost, and then unfortunately the U.S. Census for 1990, which was really sort of a generational transition from the people that were alive in the 1860s, 1870s, were getting older in 1990 and were probably going to die between 1890 and 1900. So there’s a gap, because the census for 1890 was lost in a fire some place, so all we have is little snippets. So I wasn’t able to trace everything. It was really quite laborious, but one of the





things that spurred me on was that in talking to the city planner about what was planned and asking why it was that owner-occupied or longtime family residences were going to be demolished. Their explanation was that, “Well, the neighborhood was very transitory, the people were transient, so there wasn’t really anybody there that counted.” I said, “Really?” What do you know? But when I talked to some of the people I realized that they were all—they had been there for, I mean, Claronelle Smith—Griffin? Yeah Claronelle Smith-Griffin, I always forget which way her name—I mean her family had been there since the 1860s and she was still living, now she lives in the house. It turned out that she had been away because she was a teacher down, I guess, in St. Petersburg— was when she retired that she came back and lived in the family homestead. But anyway, there were a whole number of other people in the neighborhood who had also been there for a very long time. One of the reasons—I always try to be very fair about things—one of the reasons that the city officials may well have thought that the neighborhood was sort of transient was because the community has a habit of using different names for themselves, depending on whom they’re talking to. So that if you come asking for someone by one name, that tells them right away how you got to know them. Like if you come and ask them by their maiden name, they know that you’ve been sent by someone who knew them as a child. If you asked them by their married name, then they know that you’ve come because you were married; they know that connection. If you ask them by some other name, perhaps by a name that ended up on the tax record or something, then they know again who’s inquiring; they know why you’re there.





They won’t correct the name that you’re using. They will respond on the basis of the name that you’re addressing them with, okay, or the person that you’re looking for. They’ll respond in that category. And I think it’s a strategy that was developed over a long period of time to provide protection from predatory people. You didn’t want people to know your business, and so there was this sort of screening process that went on. It was very confusing initially when all of a sudden you start realizing that one person is actually three or four people, depending on who’s been telling you about them. That’s one reason why the city people didn’t know who they were talking to. Of course it worked to the detriment of the people who were there. They didn’t know that this was being held against them—well not really held against them, but that this was an excuse for doing with them what bureaucrats wished. Anyway, I went having been made familiar with the community redevelopment program and also the community reinvestment act, but mainly the federal requirements for historic preservation. I went to the city and I said “Well, you’re planning to use federal funds to acquire and demolish these structures. You need to have an assessment to see whether or not they’re of historic significance.” “Oh no, there’s nothing of historic significance there.” And I said, “How do you know?” “Oh, because there isn’t.” I said, “But these people have been living here since the late 1800s and they had institution, they had their churches, and their masonic lodge, and their schools and so on, and all of that is there.” “Well, but we don’t think so.” And so I wrote a letter to HUD.

	M:	To?





	S:	HUD, Housing and Urban Development. Alerting them to the fact that there was this project going further and they hadn’t done the appropriate historic analysis. And then I went to the city commission and I spoke in front of the city commission and said, “You know you can’t do this, because you haven’t followed the proper procedure. You have to make an assessment. You’ll have to certify that there is nothing of historic significance in that area.” They had to do that and they applied for a little grant and they contracted with some historic preservation kinds of people who came from another place and would do an objective analysis, right? At that point in time, I and my family were normally going to New Hampshire for the summer, so we would leave our house empty. When the historic preservation people were gonna be coming to town, I offered that we would make our house available for these people to stay in while they were visiting and doing their survey and that was accepted. That was very convenient because all of the materials that I had collected I just left it there; I mean they couldn’t miss it. And so the survey got done in due—lickety-split, it was done, it was comprehensive, it was—and it certified that in fact this was of historic significance. Eventually, the Pleasant Street area was the first original African American historic district in the state of Florida. Meanwhile, I started up the Pleasant Street Historic Society— what was it, [19]84?

	D:	That sounds right.



	S:	Yeah, twenty-five years ago. Twenty-five years ago? Yeah. Last year it was twenty-five—





	M:	Well, and just for comparative purposes, when did it get the historic designation?



Pleasant Street.



	S:	The designation was a long time coming. I’m really not sure what year it finally went through. We worked hard, it was very difficult trying, because it was always a mixed neighborhood, it was—I tried to get everybody that was in the area to be interested in and to participate and so on. One lady was very enthusiastic until she discovered that those people up there north of her were also gonna be included. Then she didn’t want to have anything more to do with it. In fact, shortly before I finally moved away from Gainesville—I moved away in [19]93 because I had burnout. At one point, she called me on the telephone to berate me that it was all my fault and somebody really needed to tell me, let me know that I had done some really terrible things, and I said, “Well, what is the problem?” Well the problem was that there was these young Black people standing on the sidewalk in front of her house talking. And they would never have dared to do that if I—me, Monica Smith—hadn’t given prominence to that neighborhood up there. You see? [Laughter]

	M:	So I’m guessing this is the very south end of the— S:	Yes, yes.

	M:	Historic boundary, yeah. S:	Right.

	M:	Yeah.



	S:	That was an eye opener to me because I really hadn’t—well, I had come to America’s race problem rather late. I did not know that there was a race problem





until my senior—it was probably my junior or senior year, maybe the fall of my senior year. We took a class trip from New York to Washington D.C. It was one of these school trip kinda things. I was going to a Catholic nuns’ school in New York. We had only a class of twenty-two in the senior class; it was this very small school. We were on this bus trip from New York to Washington D.C., and as we drove down through New Jersey and Maryland, it turned out that we could not stop at any of the places to get a snack or use the restrooms because one of our classmates was Black. Well, I dunno, she was sorta brown. As far as from my perspective, she was the only person in that class who lived in a house that her family owned. She was the only person in that class whose father was a dentist, a professional person. Everybody else in that school, their parents were either subway drivers or secretaries or—some kind of workers, sanitation workers, those kinds of people. Well, there was an Italian family and I think somebody in that family had a restaurant, they had a business, but from my perspective, this young woman who lived in Mount Vernon in a house and whose father was a dentist, now because she was brown, we couldn’t stop. That was my first introduction to racism in the United States. I had not been aware of it because I lived in immigrant communities and I lived in close proximity with other mostly non-affluent people. Our first neighbors in Los Angeles was a Black family. It hadn’t registered as such on me. I knew that the father was a minister. I didn’t live there long enough to really get to know the kids because my mother bundled me off to boarding school after a year. [Laughter] Anyway, so that was my introduction to racism in America. But once I learned about it, then—I became





sort of personally outraged, because I was a recent immigrant, I didn’t have anything, but because I was initially blonde-haired and blue-eyed, there were all kinds of people who were good to me, gave me all kinds of advantages, helped me to learn the language. So I’d always felt that I had something to pay back.

When we came down here we moved to Gainesville, I volunteered at the public schools. I’d always been a parent volunteer, not because my kids needed it; it was just something that I did. So I volunteered here, and I was placed in one of the east side schools. And I was asked if I would help a promising young kid, she’s like in second or third grade, with her reading. She spoke well, and she actually didn’t really need any help. There were other children in the class who definitely needed more help, but those were dismissed as not being helpable because they spoke in a way that the teachers couldn’t understand. So because the teachers couldn’t understand them, the children didn’t get any help. At the same that we had public schools in this community that accommodated twenty- two foreign language speakers in one school. Southeast Elementary School?

That had all the graduate students’ children? They accommodated twenty-two different languages. But the local population, because they didn’t speak so they could be understood, didn’t get any extra help. That kind of thing really just irked me because it was so very, very unfair. Where did we go? So we started at Pleasant Street Historic Society, and that was, in part, to stick a finger in the eyes of people in the community who thought that they had the North east of Main Street. They had the Duck Pond, historic Duck Pond section, and they were restoring the Thomas Center, which was somebody’s fancy mansion. But these





were all Johnny-come-lately’s, and the Duck Pond area is more recent as far as construction and as far as community is concerned than the area west of Main Street. The area west of Main Street, that was settled first. Those people did all of the hard work of founding this community, and everybody else came later, including the University of Florida which arrived in Gainesville in the year 1904. When the University of Florida arrived from Lake City and they consolidated with what was known as the Florida Seminary in order to make the University of Florida, I think they had a grand total of maybe fifty students. They got a grant; they came here induced by getting free water forever from the city. But when they arrived in 1904, the African American community had had schools going back to the late [19]60s and early [19]70s. It was one of the first things that they got organized. Granted there were missionaries who were sent down by the churches, but the local community had to pay. There was a subscription school they paid out of their meager earnings to send their children to school. And because Gainesville was sort of a hub, they—and eventually it got Union Academy and the Union Academy by the time the University of Florida settled here in 1904, the Union Academy had over five hundred students in it. Now these were obviously not all from Gainesville. They had come from the surrounding areas, and they were boarded in the homes around the school. Really the model for having an education institution and all the subsidiary things to go along with it was set for Gainesville by the African American community and their Union Academy. Then the University of Florida moved in and would not admit the graduates of the Union Academy into their hallowed halls. They would not admit





graduates from an institution that had been sending students up to Harvard to be trained as doctors. The University of Florida would not accept the graduates of that institution into its hallowed halls, and there are still people around who are hurt by that.

	M:	Oh yeah.



	S:	Okay? And rightly so. On the other hand, because of that history, we have an African American community here that’s really sort of [inaudible]. They’re hoity- toity, and they are very proud and very—well, sometimes they’re not even nice. [Laughter] They have had a presence in the community, Charles Chestnut for example, who was in the city commission, county commission and I think he—I don’t know if he went to the legislature, his son is to the legislature, his second wife has been the city commissioner and a county commissioner and—did Cynthia go to the legislature for a while? She may have. Anyway, they’re going to be at the dinner tonight. Charles Chestnut, his family came down from South Carolina right after the Civil War, and that’s how long they’ve been here. His family had one of the original grants. He bought the funeral home, they have land across the street on the east side of Main Street, which the family then sold for the construction of that high rise apartment building. They’re very proud.

Probably a little bit difficult to deal with sometimes, but I think that they have every right to be. And they founded this city. They sent the first congressman from the state of Florida to Washington, Josiah T. Walls. He was elected at a time when Florida was entitled to have only one congressman ‘cause the population wasn’t big enough. Josiah T. Walls was not a native, of course,





although it was suspected that he actually married a native, because there was an African American Indian population here. They had cattle ranches before the Civil War. They were on the Spanish land grants. I suspect—although I was not able to actually document this—that Josiah T. Walls, who did have a large truck farm on the northern edge of Paynes Prairie, got some of that land or put down roots on land adjacent to the land that belonged to his wife, whose father had settled here originally. Josiah T. Walls, if y’all are gonna do a history on this, you really should go to the congressional record and look up the speeches that he gave on the floor of the house. Josiah T. Walls addressed our relations with Cuba, which were not as good as they should’ve been back then in 1870 [Laughter] something or other. Josiah T. Walls was instrumental in getting the railroads to be built across the state from Atlantic to Gulf and most of them ran through Gainesville, so Gainesville was a transportation hub. He sort of organized that. Josiah T. Walls unfortunately also came up with the idea for the cross Florida barge canal. Which we had to wait until Richard Nixon to finally put the nail in the coffin for. But there was no way for Josiah T. Walls to know that if you cut through Florida and into the aquifer, you were going to stop the natural flow of water underground from north to south. There was no way for him to know that. Geologists didn’t discover that until much later. Then finally they were able to stop that particular project. I don’t know if you’ve ever gone to the bridge that’s out southeast of us here. There’s a bridge that goes up, way up over land.

There’s no water underneath it. The reason there’s not water underneath it is





because the barge canal was never dug under it, but the bridge was built. It’s good for photography I’m sure. [Laughter]

	M:	I don’t doubt it.



	S:	Anyway, Josiah T. Walls, his speeches in the congressional record are really eloquent and it would be neat if at some point somebody maybe did a play or something and had them proclaimed. I mean really, really nice. I read them all.

	D:	It was fantastic, great oration. S:	It really—

	D:	It’s great.



	S:	Yeah, it was very inspiring. It’s the kind of thing that—but there were many antecedents to Martin Luther King, Jr. He did not spring out of the earth full blown. There were many antecedents that made it possible for his talents to be exploited, expanded, and put to good use. Anyway, yes I started the Pleasant Street Historic Society. We managed to preserve some structures. We managed to get a couple relocated into better places. You were at the last meeting at the society where Charles Chestnut was all excited about the fact that he couldn’t put an awning on his church. He’s held that attitude ever since the whole thing got started. Somebody convinced him that it was gonna interfere with his plans to have a historic district designation and he’s been opposed to it and convinced of that ever since, even though that was not the point. The point of the Pleasant Street Historic Society was to preserve the history, not necessarily the buildings. A living community changes over time. I will grant you that I did not want to see the neighborhood raised so that we could have more bank buildings and





insurance company buildings built there and parking garages. That was not something that I envisioned happening and that’s not something that I wanted to see happening and I will admit to that. But otherwise an organic development of the area is intended. Charles’s perspective is, I think, peculiar to Charles. He perceives that he’s been stymied and so he’s been stymied.

	M:	Fair enough.



	S:	Even if he hasn’t been, but that’s what his perception is.



	M:	Let’s see. Specifically what was the aim of the historic society, just sort of—?



	S:	To preserve the history and make it known throughout the community what wonderful things have been achieved by the people who used to live there and some of whose descendants still live there and who had every right to be considered when things were gonna be done in their neighborhood. And they had every right not to be tricked into selling their houses for pennies on the dollar in order to then make it possible for developers to acquire land cheap and make a killing on the profit. Now that is one of the other things that I became aware of. The urban redevelopment program was set up specifically—I mean this is the agenda, was that the public dollars would be used to acquire lands, clear title, demolish structures, and then make those lands available to developers to redevelop. The objective of the program was not to improve the neighborhood for the community that was there. The objective was to get rid of people, as one of our commissioners used to say, “It was actually urban removal.” The idea was to get people out and make this land available for speculators. I didn’t think from a citywide point of perspective that that was a good idea. I mean that’s my own





personal thing. I happen to believe in urban living, and I don’t want to see people moved out into the boondocks. The land speculation and development speculation got started here really early on. As part of my research I discover that land out around the Oaks Mall was being acquired from farmers at very low cost, then they divided them up into lots for redevelopment, then they sold lots back and forth amongst each other until they could double, triple, or quadruple the value of those lots. Then they went to the bank to get a loan on this artificially inflated land value. That was going on here in the early [19]80s. This was before the savings and loan collapse. I happened to discover this purely by chance. I was going through deed books, registration books, mortgage registration books, just sort of flipping through them and the all of a sudden, I discovered that the same people were selling the same parcel of land within days back and forth.

Then there would be a mortgage deed from the bank at the much higher price, but nothing had happened on the ground, couldn’t have happened on the ground because this whole thing happened in a matter of days or weeks. I forwarded some of that information to the supervisory agency, which I think was the controller of the currency for savings and loans, and said, “There’s something fishy going on here.” An investigator came down from Atlanta or Washington or wherever, and sat with me and got some—I gave him the deed book pages and stuff and what I had found and then he went away. And I never heard anything again until about probably seven or eight years later. I happened to be at some community breakfast and this banker guy walks up to me and he wants to know how come I complained about this bank. In the meantime this bank closed. I told





him, “Look, first of all it looked fishy, but more than that, you guys were telling property owners whose families have been here for over a hundred years that they couldn’t get loans to redo their houses, make them compliant with the fire code and whatever else. They couldn’t get loans even though y’all had been collecting their savings for all that time. Then you went and speculated on raw land out in the boondocks?” That didn’t strike me as fair and it wasn’t actually legal under the law [Laughter], so I said, “That’s why.” One other thing that I have done is that in 1979, I think it was—in response to the people in the neighborhood telling me that they couldn’t get loans from what was then Florida National Bank, which sat on University Avenue, to improve their properties. Then Florida National applied to open up a branch out on West University Avenue, so I challenged the granting of the permission to open that branch under the Community Reinvestment Act. We had a hearing here in Gainesville, it was probably the first CRA hearing challenge that was held in Florida. It was, I think, pretty early even for the people that came down from Atlanta. I challenged it because they hadn’t been making loans, they hadn’t met their commitment to the local community, as far as I was concerned anyway, and I didn’t see that there was any point in letting them go out to the west and build a new branch building. Although their argument was that, well, they were gonna collect more funds from the people that were moving out there into the suburbs, and then they would have more money available for community stuff. I mean that was an argument.

My other argument was that the building was being built. The branch was planned to be built on the wrong side of the road. They were planning to build it





on the south side of the road, which meant that if all the commuter traffic that was coming into Gainesville would be driving by this branch before it even opened.

Then the evening when they were going home from work out to the suburbs, they would be on the wrong side of the road and it would be very inconvenient to try and make a left turn into this facility. It struck me as an unwise development anyway. And I suggested in the alternative that just a little bit further on there was the Oaks Mall shopping center, which had a lot of land, and lots of room where they could put a branch and then it would be convenient to the people who took the bus to the shopping center and could be convenient to the people who parked in the parking lots for the shopping center, et cetera, et cetera. It would be much more accessible. Well they just laughed. The idea of putting banks in shopping centers was just ludicrous. They needed to have their own space. They got their permit for their branch. The branch obviously never did very well and was shuttered within a number of years. Now we have bank branches not only in shopping centers, we even have banks branches in supermarkets. All of a sudden [Laughter] they figured out that they didn’t really need to have a great big fancy building in order to do transactions. We lost at this hearing. They got their permit. But it was an eye-opener because I had lined up a number of people who had agreed that they would come and they would testify that they had been denied credit by this institution. Come the day of the hearing, they didn’t show up. Some of their friends showed up, but the people that were on the docket to actually give testimony, they did not show up. Later, I discovered why one person in particular did not show up. When he announced that he was gonna run for the





city commission, and he had the backing of the bank for his city commission run, which meant that I had to run for the city commission again to split the ticket to make sure that this person did not get onto the city commission because he’s not an honorable person. I mean he didn’t even have the guts to tell me that he wasn’t gonna show up. He just didn’t show up. So I ran for the city commission. I lost—well of course I lost. I ran twice and lost twice, but that’s okay. I didn’t actually wanna be on the city commission, it was just—it’s good for people to run for office and it’s good for people to have choices and I’m still firmly committed to that. There had to be a run-off ‘cause there were five candidates and the way it works down here, you have these things and if there’s not one that gets more than fifty percent, they have the two top vote counters have to have a run-off, which meant that the fellow who lives across the street there, Mack McKeatren, was gonna be in the run-off. So I threw my support to him, and he got to be city commissioner instead of this turd. I shouldn’t use that word, from Fifth Avenue [Laughter] I put a lot of energy into this community. Let’s see. In conjunction with researching—stuff, I got clued into the fact that the Oaks Mall, which was being developed, a big shopping center off West University Avenue, was being developed on terrain that’s known as a karst formation, which means that any water runs directly down into the Florida drinking water aquifer. Certain provisions have to be made so that you don’t get run-off from the streets, which molecules from gas and oil and whatever cars leave behind are great contaminants. They really cause more damage to our groundwater than hardly anything because they latch themselves onto particles of soil and that way they





get transported into the underground. And these things are not really delectable to whatever lives down underground. You wanna try and keep them out. The Oaks Mall was developed—and a big parking lot—and there was a requirement that there be retention basins, detention and retention bases, for the run-off during storm events. Well, in going out and looking at the whole thing, I came to realize that the retention basin that was approved for the shopping center was not built where it was approved to be built. In part, I guess, because they wanted more land for the shopping centers so they stuck this retention basin over into another area. And it was poorly constructed and every time there was any kind of—they had put in a layer of clay, and clay is supposed to retard water, clay liners are fine. They had put in a layer of clay. However, they forgot to put any sand on top of it, and they didn’t fence the facility. As a consequence you had kids on motorbikes and stuff running through what was a clear open land, which when it wasn’t raining, it was dry, But it was banks, so they went in there and they’d run around and they churn up the soil and the next rain event, the water would just go right down into the holes and into the aquifer. I mean, it would disperse. No retention at all. No detention. I challenged the county because they hadn’t properly enforced their ordinance in making the thing be built in the right place first of all and be built appropriately second of all. I didn’t get any response, the county engineer and so, those people weren’t interested. So I sued the county. I filed a lawsuit. I got a hearing in front of a judge and the county came in. They had to defend—civil law is nice this way. If you can institute a civil suit, if they don’t defend themselves, if they don’t respond, they lose it automatically. It’s





a sure way to get a response. So the county came and responded and had a motion to dismiss and provided their arguments. And mainly their argument was that my injury—although I was suing them on behalf of future tax payer costs would have to repair this if the groundwater got contaminated and people could no longer drink it and so on and so forth—that it was premature, I hadn’t actually yet suffered any damage. That’s true, I mean that’s the way the law works. The suit was dismissed but without prejudice, which meant that I could come back at a later time when there were damages and I would be able to re-file it. Well—that was one concession. The other thing was I went and I filed all of this in the public records of Alachua County, so that in case somebody in the future was damaged, there would be a record that they had been put on notice that there was this problem, and if they hadn’t fixed it, then the people down the line would have recourse. Cause they had been given notice. Well, long story short, they did go back to the developer and they did have that retention basin rebuilt properly and they had it fenced, and now it works. It got done. I learned a lot and I was on the Water Management Advisory Committee for the city and my next task was the University of Florida, which was busily building buildings, and roads, and parking garages and doing nothing about its drainage facilities. I challenged that and I went to the city commissioner and insisted that since the University of Florida is within the city limits, and the city limits has these ordinances, they need to be applied—the last thing that the University of Florida wanted was to have to kowtow to the city of Gainesville, so they got their act together and they got their engineers and they got their develop—they included in their development





proposals doing underground drainage facilities in order to handle their storm water. Then I’m sure they were very happy because they had this program in place and any new building that was built, they automatically figured that into it, and it’s all gone very smoothly, no problems.

	M:	You also were telling me a story about GRU that did not make it on—I don’t know if you wanted to retell that.

	S:	Oh GRU, well one of the—yes, GRU. The University of Florida people have wanted to be their own little fiefdom from when they got here, and they resent that anybody would wanna tell them what to do, period. One of the signs of that is that they do not wanna buy, and did not, and probably will never buy their electricity from the city of Gainesville, even though the city of Gainesville has a perfectly good power plant. We had a coal fire plant, and it has a gas plant, and now it’s doing all kinds of innovative stuff and it’s got solar thing where the people put solar things on their roofs and it goes back into the grid. They get a credit for whatever they generate from solar and it’s very forward looking, and very efficient. But Florida Power and Light people had their friends in high places at the University of Florida so that they got exempted. They don’t have to buy from the local utility. It’s no skin off Gainesville’s nose really, except that for a while there was this effort to try and buy Gainesville Regional Utilities. Every time we had an election, we had this argument about how it wasn’t right that Gainesville Regional Utilities had to contribute to the general fund budget, and this way the citizens got a kind of a subsidy and that wasn’t fair, it made them uncompetitive where private sector couldn’t compete and so on and so forth. Then the other





argument was that the management of the utility, they couldn’t get the best people because the city manager’s salary had to be higher than the utility managers’ salary ‘cause the utility was supposed to be subordinate. And that because of that there was this cap, they couldn’t hire the best people in the industry, they couldn’t compete. We said, “Okay, if you can’t compete, then we’ll just change the requirement that the guy gets paid less. We’ll change it so that he gets whatever is comparable in the market.” Then the next argument was that it was difficult for the utility to plan ahead because they never knew how much money the city of Gainesville’s general fund was going to requisition from them. That was bad for the—they couldn’t go to the bond market or they couldn’t do long range planning, and there was this impediment ‘cause of this uncertainty.

Industry, I’ve discovered, American enterprise really hates uncertainty. We now have—as an aside—we now have 2.9 trillion dollars in cash sitting in the accounts of industry and finance in this country currently. 1.9 trillion that they’re not using because they are uncertain about the future. Anyway, American enterprise hates uncertainty. That was the line that we got about why the Gainesville Regional Utilities needed to be privatized so they would have more certainty. I said to the managers, I said, “Well I mean, if you were a private utility, you would still have to pay some taxes. You’d have to pay property taxes, you’d have to pay—there would be a tax due.” “Oh yes, but that would be able to be anticipated.” I said, “Well, about how much of your income would you expect to have to pay in taxes?” And they came up with some fig—they did a whole bunch of calculations and they came back several weeks later and they said that it was





somewhere, I don’t know, 11, 14 percent of gross revenues or something. They were fixed numbers going with fixed quantities and predictable sums and so on. And I said, “Well fine, why don’t you just enter into an agreement with the City of Gainesville Commission that the utilities contribution to the general fund will be ‘X’ percentage of ‘X’ amount annually and you won’t have to be liable for any more.” That seemed to settle it. They got their little agreement and everybody was happy. As far as I know, there was no more real effort to try to get them to sell the utility. It’s been a very forward looking—Gainesville Regional Utility has got this coal fire plant, which it brings coal down from West Virginia, or wherever. They at one point decided to buy their own coal cars. And we said, “Why do you want to buy your own coal cars?” Well because the rate that they were being charged by the railroad to transport the coal was based on the weight of the coal. When the coal cars were open and rain got in and soaked the coal, then the trains would be that much heavier. So there would even be an incentive for the transporters to let the trains sit and get rained on, so they could charge more for the transport. And they figure that in two, three years or something like that, they could save enough money by having dry coal come to Gainesville to pay for the coal cars. So they bought coal cars, covered coal cars, so the coal wouldn’t get wet. It was a perfectly logical thing for them to do. Right? Let’s see, what else?

The other thing of course is that Gainesville Regional Utilities also has the waste water system. It does in fact provide—the university has its own waste water plant on campus, but everything else gets handled by GRU. And so there’s a plant in the southeast and then there’s the Kanapaha Treatment Plant which is





out in the west, sort of just north of Paynes Prairie. And because of the karst location, the effluent from the Kanapaha Treatment Plant—it might go into the drinking water aquifer because of where it’s located. They got a permit for—the permit for that plant specified that they would have to treat the water, the effluent from the plant, to drinking water quality standards, and then they would be able to inject it into the lower aquifer. When I was on the Water Management Advisory Committee, we always had to review all of these things. The Gainesville Regional Utility people on staff, government bureaucrats, they did all of the planning, they did all of the research for upgrading and expanding the plant and at one point while I was here, they went to what is known as the Bardenfold process. That is they imported a process from South Africa, which utilizes aerobic and anaerobic bugs, some of which like air and some of which don’t like air, to treat the effluent so that they don’t have to put in a lot of chemicals and the effluent from the plant is drinking water quality. You can’t put it into the drinking water system, because people are unsure about that. They don’t like that idea. But really, injecting it back down into the aquifer is not a bad idea, especially if it’s clean water. Now the bonus that went with that project is that in order to get the permit and everything, they had to set up monitoring wells at some distance from where the water goes in and check the plume as the water migrates underground through the karst formation. Takes a good long while, but it does migrate, and they had to set up monitoring wells at some distance to check what the water quality was further away. Make sure that there wasn’t any kind of contamination coming.

What they discovered, and this is a unique discovery, before, I think it actually





was discovered before we discovered those organisms that have now been discovered to be way down deep in the pacific on the—

	M:	Oh, yeah.



	S:	Those hot water things? M:	The thermophiles.

	S:	Yeah, they live without any air, without any light whatsoever in the absolute dark.



Well, what they discovered here is that we’ve got biological action way down deep where they were injecting the water because the quality of the water the further it got from the injection plume, the cleaner it got, the less things it had in it. Something was consuming stuff along the way.

	M:	Wow.



	S:	Yeah, and the guys that were working on this project, I mean they felt really proud ‘cause here they were just municipal employees, engineers, but municipal employees and the one guy was an environmental engineer. But here they had something and they wrote it up in papers that they were then able to publish, which in this community is a really big thing. They were really, really enthusiastic about their plant and what they had accomplished there.

	M:	I can imagine.



	S:	So there have been some successes in Florida.



	M:	Well, it seems that way. I would like to return a little bit to the Pleasant Street Society, but I have a question I guess that relates to the some successes. You say you burned out—

	S:	Oh yeah, I did, I burned out.





	M:	I mean, with the successes, what kind of—?



	S:	Well, I don’t have any evidence; I don’t have any real evidence. I do know that in 1987 we moved from three blocks away from the university to eight blocks away from the university to another piece of land that was a little bit more than an acre probably, where everything else was on smaller lots. It was an old estate and I discovered that I had a hundred and twenty-five different varieties of camellias because the previous owner was a camellia aficionado. One way I discovered this is the people started stopping by to see whether or not I was taking good care of the camellias. The house was on Eighth Avenue right smack dab in the middle of the city. It was on city water, but it had its own septic tanks, which did not have proper leach fields. And if somebody were to use more water than we used, ‘cause we didn’t have dishwashers, and we didn’t have—at first it didn’t have a washing machine and we only had three adults at first living in the house. If a larger number of people were to come, they would fail. One of the things I decided to do was to get an engineering survey of the site and prepare to have it hooked up to the city sewer, which ran right down the street, right down Eighth Avenue okay? The previous owner who had been some—I think he was the property assessor for Alachua County, did not have to hook his house up to the sewer. I mean that’s the way things used to get done. In addition, the drainage for the entire southern neighborhood had been routed through a pipe across the back of this property into the headwaters of a little tiny creek. There was a little tiny spring coming out of the side of the hillside, and they had routed all of the storm water into the head of this little creek. Well, unfortunately, they didn’t build





it right, so this pipe, it fell apart, collapsed, and besides that it was collecting storm water from a fifteen square block area, and all of that went down in this little ravine. And the little ravine was getting deeper and deeper and deeper and the big trees were all falling, and falling, and falling. [Laughter] So the first thing we asked the city since it turned out that they had put this pipe on private land— not when we owned it—but it was private land and they did not get an easement like they should have and they hadn’t maintained it, we told them to take it away. Reroute that water and send it into their storm sewer someplace else so this hillside wouldn’t keep continuing to collapse, which they did. They recognized what it had to be done and they did it. Then my husband set about trying to restore some of this ravine to prevent it from continuing to erode and to put in some plants on the creek side and make a little water garden. Well, meanwhile, I was looking after the camellias, and the camellias, as I said, attracted people who came by, including some of the people from Pleasant Street who would come and collect camellias for church services. Then occasionally I would have meetings for Pleasant Street at that house and it’s our sense, it was my sense that that was not—pleasing to some of the people that lived in the neighborhood because they started sicking public officials on us. When the town public officials didn’t have any success, they turned to the county environmental agent and launched a complaint about our doing stuff in the creek. Kinda persuaded him to declare that this was the water of the state and that in our making improvements and bringing in limestone things, and making pools, and retarding the water flow, and having all of these water plants grow there, was an





unpermitted activity, and we were gonna have to take it all out, because we were messing with vegetation, with aquatic vegetation. Whereupon I said, “But we put the aquatic vegetation there. We planted it there. We hold back the water so that the plants will continue to thrive there. If we take this out, the plants will die.

There will be no steady water for them.” Well he didn’t care. The law was the law and I didn’t get a permit for it. We didn’t get a permit for it. We said, “Do you have a permit for restoring wetlands?” Well no he didn’t, but that wasn’t his point, his purview anyway because his job was to stop people from destroying wetlands.

He didn’t have anything to do with people who were creating wetlands. We said, “Uh-huh, okay, you do not have a permitting process? [Laughter] I’ve been working to restore wetlands and to protect the waters and everything for the last fifteen years, and now you’re coming and telling me that I have to undo all of this because I didn’t get a permit for something that you don’t have a permit for?” It was obvious that the whole thing was ridiculous. We sent him away and we had spent all of this money on the engineering studies for hooking on to the sewer and all of this other stuff, but there was this constant harassment by the neighbors. So when I got an opportunity, when an opportunity arose, that is my mother decided she wanted to move out. I said, “Fine then, I’m moving away.” And we put the house on the market and there was a buyer. They had found a buyer for it before the realtor put the sign in the hole. They were so anxious for us to leave because we had introduced the wrong kind of people into the neighborhood.

	M:	This house was where exactly, it was close to the—?





	S:	Eighth Avenue.



	M:	Eighth Avenue and—?



	S:	Eighth Avenue and Seventeenth Street. M:	On the east side?

	S:	Northwest.



	M:	The west side, okay.



	S:	I was tired of fighting those battles.



	M:	I can understand. Was anyone directly confrontational about it—? S:	No, no.

	M:	Or was it all just—? Okay.



	S:	No, no, no, no. There was a neighborhood organization, the neighborhood organization was dedicated towards preserving the neighborhood, the family neighborhood. They didn’t wanna have too many students with cars parked on the lawns and everything. I approved of that, I worked with the city, we got a parking program installed, so residential parking permits, I organized that, I initiated that, I got that set in, I got it enforced. We got parking during football games regulated so that the whole place wouldn’t be entirely littered and impassable to ambulances. I got that done, I got the name for College Park. It used to be referred to as the student ghetto. We got it renamed as College Park; we had done all of that. Not realizing—that some people were obviously not being welcomed to buy houses in the neighborhood. There were people who were willing. The woman that sold us the house for my mother, she was willing to take a lower price rather than have it on the open market—well there wasn’t





really much of an open market anyway ‘cause the realtors were all in on showing people just to certain appropriate neighborhoods. That’s how it’s maintained.

That’s how the residential segregation is maintained. It’s a matter of consensus and people who don’t go along with the consensus are pushed out.

	M:	I believe it. Especially when you say you hadn’t really confronted the American racial problem before—I mean, when I moved down here, ‘cause I’m from Pennsylvania outside of Philadelphia. I mean it’s just stark in some places, even today—

	S:	Oh, yeah.



	M:	To just see how things are still divided I mean, very—yeah. S:	Right.

	M:	Were there any direct confrontations on racial lines that you ever dealt with? S:	No.

	M:	It was all just this quiet, behind the scenes kinda stuff?



	S:	Yeah, right. Right. It’s all sub rosa. There’s nothing overt. Pleasant Street, it’s always been an integrated organization, and Donna here, she had more background in that kinda stuff coming from Syracuse and the civil rights stuff—

	D:	That’s true.



	S:	Than I do.



	D:	We did have a good experience in Syracuse. So we wanted to join NAACP. M:	Okay.

	D:	We went over to the minister who was heading it up and saw that they didn’t have a meeting scheduled. Our neighbor said, “Well you should go to court.” So





we did that and they were very active, demonstrating and well, anyway, we got really involved in government committees. We picketed, and we went on and on.

	S:	When we met, it was one of these things where, I think we knew in the first hour that we were gonna be good friends.

	M:	Some connections are like that I guess. S:	Yeah. Right. Just clicked.

	D:	Yep.



	M:	That was around when? D:	Julia figured it out.

	S:	Was that 1979?



	D:	Around there.



	S:	Yeah.



	M:	Okay, so it’s pretty close to when you got here.



	S:	Yeah, we arrived in [19]77. The first year we lived out on Newnans Lake. We rented a house.

	M:	Okay.



	S:	While we looked to buy a house. And we already had four houses under our belt, ‘cause we bought one in New Hampshire, we fixed that up, sold it, then we bought another one that we fixed up and sold and—then we bought a house in Ithaca, which we fixed up and sold. And then we moved back to New Hampshire and we had turned the barn into a house and that burnt to the ground and then so we had to rebuild that, but meanwhile we were building another house out of another barn. We’ve done all of this stuff with houses, so when we came to





Gainesville, we were really clued into how things work. And when you start hearing these lines about how you can’t—I can’t show you this because there’s an offer, or you can’t get a mortgage, or insurance can’t be gotten and so on.

Well, that rang bells. Aside from the fact—I mean we still had a house up in New Hampshire with ten acres of land. I mean it wasn’t like we were indigent or anything. My husband was hired as a tenured faculty, so there wasn’t any reason. If they were giving us a hard time, then you can be sure that a whole lot of other people were getting a hard time.

	M:	I can imagine. What department was your husband in? S:	English.

	M:	English, okay.



	S:	Actually, most of the time he taught film studies. That was a subset.



	M:	Yeah, I guess that’s the location for it at UF. Did you have much interaction with the other faculty there, or were you mostly involved just with the community in the city?

S:   Well, my husband was involved with the faculty. But I was not a real faculty wife. I didn’t even join the historic society, Matheson. Well actually, initially that wasn’t in existence when we first came, was it? I think they started that a little later.

Yeah, they started that later. The fellow that started your program?



	M:	Proctor, Sam Proctor.



	S:	Proctor. Proctor was here. I think from his perspective that we were sort of like, ancillary forces coming along and helping. He had been working pretty much alone, I think before.





	M:	You mean in terms of documenting history? S:	No, in doing historical stuff on Gainesville. M:	Okay.

	S:	I mean the Duck Pond, that was not even conceived—well, maybe when we got here they had started working on, well they had started working on restoring the Thomas Center I think, when we got here. The Duck Pond area was pretty depressed, too. I mean a lot had been done since to renovate that. The Sweetwater Branch that flows through the Duck Pond area, its headwater is where originally where the Union Academy sat on the west side of Main Street. And the water, the spring water, provided the first—what do you call it, would you call it a plumbing facility, but for the Union Academy? That creek carried away the effluent from the student body. The reason it’s called Sweetwater Branch is ‘cause it’s got piss in it. [Laughter]

	D:	That’s not something I knew though. [Laughter] S:	You didn’t know that?

	D:	Unh-uh.



	S:	Yeah.



	D:	That is really funny [Laughter]



	S:	Well, there’s all these things they don’t wanna talk about, but the Union Academy had flush sanitary facilities in a way.

	M:	Interesting. Yeah I didn’t know that either. [Laughter]



	S:	Yeah, well, so that was that. As I said, I’m really pleased that they’ve continued. M:	It was your idea to start the historic society, the Pleasant—?





	S:	Mmhm.



	M:	Okay, and I guess you were one of the early members then? D:	Mmhm, there was what? About a dozen people?

	M:	Yeah, so who else was sort of founding member or signed on early?



	S:	Well, Melanie was early. Mr. Butler was early. Mr. Butler was there right at the beginning. Claronelle Griffin was there right at the beginning. Initially we met at Mount Pleasant, because that was Claronelle Griffin’s church.

	M:	Okay.



	S:	But then they got a new minister, that woman minister, remember? Who wasn’t particularly—

	D:	Well, Mr. Butler was the first president.



S:  Yeah, but we were still meeting at Mount Pleasant. D:  Probably, yeah. I’m sure you’ll remember.

S:  Yeah, we were meeting at Mount Pleasant, and they got this new female minister there, and she was not particularly interested in what we were doing. And so then Mr. Butler said that we should just go down and meet at his church.

M:   Okay, and so that’s how you moved down there?



	S:	Yeah, we moved down there. They’ve always wanted to meet at four o’clock on the fourth Saturday. Always. And I’ve tried, and Melanie’s tried, and any number of people have tried to get them to maybe change—no, they will not agree to changing from that time. So there we are.

	M:	Even though there have been conflicts with the football season?





	S:	Whatever, they don’t care. It’s the four o’clock, fourth Saturday. They’re very, very conservative people. Really conservative people.

	M:	Well, that’s—



	S:	Sometimes I think that they’re stuck in the [19]50s. M:	In terms of mindset, or in terms of—?

	S:	Culturally. Culturally they’re very conservative. Very formal. I think I knew some of the people on Seventh Avenue, one old lady in particular who used to be a music teacher and had two grand pianos in her house.

	M:	What was her name? Do you—?



	S:	What was her name? I think she died. Williams? Was she a Williams? There’s some lot of Williams’s. I’m pretty sure she died, but the point I wanted to make was that I knew here for at least, three, four, six, six years or something. Talked to her, got invited to sit on the porch with her, and was never invited into the house until long, long, long after. People do not get invited into the house.

	M:	Fair enough.



	S:	Yeah, they don’t—



	D:	Maybe it’s because every little thing has to be perfectly in order. S:	Yeah, and they don’t socialize in their homes much.

	D:	I mean this is like—



	S:	That’s why they have the social stuff in—



	D:	—Friends, we knocked on the door, we were walking down over at the Duck Pond, we were walking down the road or passing by it, there was something about this one property that attracted our attention, so we knocked on the door to





talk to them about it, and they invited us in, and she looked around and she says, “I wouldn’t let anybody in my house if it looked like this.” It didn’t look like hardly anything, and they didn’t need to apologize, they didn’t know we were gonna knock on the door. But that’s where I was, and some came past there sometime later, she came to pick something up or something, and I let her in my house.

Well, it was one its—well, my friend has a sign in her house, she says, “It doesn’t always look like this, sometimes it’s worse” [Laughter]

	S:	Yeah, it is there. We were invited, remember we were invited into— D:	An owl just flew across, but I’m afraid we missed it.

	S:	We were invited into Mary Butler’s house.



	D:	Oh, yeah, they have no problem inviting us to their house. S:	Right, and that’s the other thing, there are classes.

	D:	Oh there, see? Oh no, I think it’s nice, see that big bird right where I am, it’s straight ahead. Monica can see it. It’s up in the kinda “V” of that tree. I think it’s— is it a huge—?

	S:	Which tree there?



	D:	Well, it’s the mulberry tree. S:	Is it this one here?

	D:	Now you can see it. S:	Oh, the mulberry tree.

	D:	You can see it, it’s over on the edge through there on an outgoing branch. I thought it was a big enough to be a—it could even be a crow for Christ’s sakes, but I thought it was big enough to be a, maybe, you see it?





	M:	Oh, okay.



	D:	You see it? It’s pretty big. M:	I think so.

	D:	Monica can’t see it now, ‘cause it’s— S:	No, I can’t see anything.

	M:	I see something moving over there. S:	Wow, it just flew away.

	D:	Wait a minute, it’s turning around.



	S:	Oh, I see, that’s not the thing that moved?



	D:	See, it looked pretty big to me, when it flew across [Laughter] M:	No, it did. I can understand that.

	D:	I caught a vulture in the yard around the corner.



	S:	Yeah there are also classes in the Black community and some of them are church-based, so the Mount Pleasant people are more uppity than the Friendship people. They don’t like to socialize. I mean one of the problems with the Pleasant Street thing is that the Butlers and Mrs. White and—what’s the fellow that used to live in the southeast? McNealy, wonderful!

	D:	Oh, Maxy, Mr. Maxy.



	S:	Mr. Maxy, right. Really wonderful salt of the earth people who contribute all of the time. I mean they were always giving to the community, but they’re not fine enough, they’re not elegant enough for Charles Chestnut. I think Arby Ayer, and even Tom Coward, now Tom Coward is—‘cause he’s a politician—he’s sort of in the middle. But when I went to talk to Reverend Wright, Charles kept talking





about Reverend Wright having been thrown out of St. Augustine at that meeting the other day. He was rubbing in that Reverend Wright is a Johnny-come-lately, he doesn’t really belong, he came from somewhere else, and they’ve always let him know that after all of this time. When I first went to talk to Reverend Wright, he said that he was an outsider. He had been made to feel like an outsider. We sort of commiserated that I feel like an outsider. I mean I’ve always felt like an outsider, but that was because I was an outsider. [Laughter] He said he felt he been there for—I don’t know how long Wright had been there by then. I mean it must’ve been over twenty years for sure. He’s saying that he felt like an outsider. The class thing is—.

	D:	That goes maybe across racial lines. S:	Oh, yeah, it does. It does.

	D:	We’ll never be insiders and we’ve been here over fifty years. S:	Right, right. You just have to understand—

	D:	That seems normal though, that seems like a normal problem no matter where you go.

	S:	Right, it’s typical of United States’ communities for sure. M:	Well did that have an effect on the—?

	S:	It’s had an effect on their ability to achieve economic success it has. They’re constantly in competition with each other and they won’t help each other. As I said at the meeting, they recognize that that’s a problem. They don’t get together.

	M:	Yeah? It seemed like that was precipitated in part by talking about the history of Fifth Avenue where people used to—





	S:	Yeah but that’s the dinky little stores they were talking about. I drove by; they’re still there. What they were talking about is the structures are still there and the little barbershop and so on. They’re still there, but they’re dinky little things. They didn’t go anywhere. I don’t know. Part of it is just that they have this leadership thing. You pick a leader and then you do what the leader says and everybody’s gotta follow the leader and god-forbid somebody have another idea. It’s not unique. I mean it’s the same. All communities have similar problems. They’d rather be leaders or have leaders than actually do anything [Laughter]

	M:	Well, that’s—yeah. I mean it’s a common problem, but it seems like there are unique aspects of it to the situation.

	S:	Yeah.



	M:	Did that kinda conflict affect the historic society as it operated?



	S:	No, a lot of them just didn’t participate. We’re a really, really shoestring operation. I mean we had almost no money. I don’t think there’s ever been need to file any kind of thing with the IRS ‘cause there’s never been more than twenty-five thousand dollars in the thing. Although now I think you have to file a thing even if you don’t have any money, but we had no paid staff, we had no—the dues barely cover the annual filing fee with the Secretary of State and a little bit of sending out a newsletter from time to time or something. And that’s been about it. They’ve been able to interact with the city because there are various grant programs and if you have community involvement and so on, then the city has a better chance for getting grants, so the city’s gotten grants. It’s the principal of the thing. Now I think we’re no longer tearing down communities all across the land, and that’s





been pretty much come to a halt, even before this current recession. Young people are moving back into the cities. The number of people who do not drive cars is growing. The number of young people who are getting killed in car accidents is dropping, thank God. We’ve got some bike paths constructed in the community. Initially when that came forward, oh there was great opposition. They did not want to have strange people coming near their backyards. We have neighborhoods without sidewalks. There’s a state law that says that within so many blocks of an elementary school, there have to be sidewalks. We don’t have sidewalks because even when the city had money to construct the sidewalks without requiring any contribution from the adjacent property owners, the property owners said that they did not want sidewalks in front of their houses.

They do not want people walking in front of their houses, and they don’t want them standing in front of their houses and talking.

	D:	Also, like down here over on Fourth Avenue where this big downtown rental property development went in if you remember, can you visualize where that is? Right on Fourth Avenue, huge rental complex, and you would think sure enough there would be a sidewalk right along there, because here’s all these people living here, but no. The sidewalk stops and then this development starts and that has always pissed me off because the developer just wanted every inch for himself and wouldn’t allow for a sidewalk, I’m sure.

	S:	The plan board routinely waved the sidewalk requirement for those developments, because that’s what the community—

	D:	They are right downtown and they really need a sidewalk.





	S:	That’s what the community wanted them to do. They are really opposed to sidewalks, because people walking are a threat. If they’re walking in the street, you can always run them down.

	M:	Well when you say the community, is this inclusive of the Black community or is this mostly sort of the old—?

	S:	No, I’m not sure that the Black community has much. They pretty much keep to themselves. They pretty much rely on their cars or their friends’ cars and they’ve learned that you don’t walk.

	M:	Yeah, well.



	S:	Walking is not something that you do. It’s not safe. One of the things that we did in conjunction with this Pleasant Street thing-a-ma-jiggy was to go around and take pictures of the houses and Donna’s got all of these things to give you.

	D:	I just brought ‘em out of the closet [Laughter] M:	Oh, okay.

	S:	We walked around and we took pictures ‘cause she’s a great photographer. The two of us. Remember that Sunday morning when we were walking through the neighborhood taking pictures of the houses and a police van, a crime prevention van or something, came down the street and stopped by us and we were informed that we should not be walking in this neighborhood? This is now Sunday morning at ten o’clock. We should not be walking in this neighborhood ‘cause it’s very dangerous. I said, “What are you talkin’ about?” [Laughter] That was the police patrol. When my husband had hired somebody to come and do some work at our house, delivered the young person back to where he lived in





the neighborhood. He was questioned by the police about what he was doing there. White people weren’t supposed to be in that neighborhood. Their excuse always was that White people were only coming there to buy drugs. That’s their excuse. Meanwhile, the crack houses flourished within three blocks of the police station with nothing happening. Every shift change the police cars had to drive down the streets of that neighborhood, and they never stopped to check on why people were standing furtively on the corner as they drove by. Crime kept going up within three blocks of the police station, real crime. People getting mugged, people—squatting in houses, people setting houses afire. That kept happening. But when two White ladies go walking down the street on Sunday morning, they’re told it’s too dangerous. That’s institutional.

	M:	Oh yeah.



	S:	They really don’t know any better. It’s what they’re taught. It’s like our troops are now being taught to go and kill ragheads. I mean, it’s the system.

	M:	It’s true. That raises another thing I wanted to ask about, which is around the same time the neighborhood gets its historic designation—well actually, let me ask one question first, did you have any involvement in or any insight into how the actual boundaries of the historic district were delimited? My understanding is it could’ve extended further west and a lot of that had to do with I guess the historical integrity being a little more compromised?

	S:	Right, well Sixth Street was already, already had a lot of commercial on it and it had a lot of intrusion and it had a lot of non-historic, and it had—when we were doing that, there was still a railroad track that went down Sixth Street, so it was a





natural delineator. And the community, they sort of assented to that because— let’s see. Originally, the way the town was laid out, the railroad track ran down Main Street and separated the Black neighborhood from the—or the mixed neighborhood from the White neighborhood on the other side, more or less. At some point, the railroad tracks got moved over to Sixth Street, thereby setting up a new differentiation between the part that was east of Sixth Street and the part that was west of Sixth Street. The part that was west of Sixth Street had already—that’s where the urban redevelopment first took place. And they had already torn out a lot of the houses that were significant to people, that people cared about. It was because those were gone that they then were anxious that the rest of it not be destroyed. That’s one. Also, then there was this thing about, it was the census track 1644, that was a designation by the census and HUD or whoever. They had divided the community into sections and that was that and so initially all of the plans were for 1644 and getting it renamed from being a number to having a name, that was significant achievement in itself. Bureaucrats were much happier talking about 1644. It was an impersonal kinda thing. They didn’t have to think about—whether or not people were there or—when you have something called Grove Street and Pleasant Street and let’s see, what are some of the other ones?

	D:	Bassador.



	S:	Yeah. They all had interesting names that meant things to people. 1644 was much more impersonal and was easier to deal with.

	M:	How did they decide on Pleasant Street as the street for the name?





	S:	I don’t know, that just seemed to be a matter of consensus. M:	Okay.

	S:	That Pleasant Street was—well, you had the two big churches. You had Union Academy, which used to back up onto it. Union Academy was where the Rosa B. Williams Center is now. It backed onto Pleasant Street. Also, there were a number of significant residences which are now gone, but the big yellow house is gone now, isn’t it? There were houses there that significant people had lived on that street—at various times. Fifth Avenue is what they called Seminary Lane ‘cause it went over to the seminary on the other side, which really didn’t resonate with them that much. Anyway, that’s what they picked.

	M:	Fair enough.



	S:	Yeah.



	M:	So the—



	S:	Then there was Mount Pleasant Church. M:	Makes sense.

	S:	There are Pleasant Streets all over the country. We’ve got a Pleasant Street in Portsmith that’s down near the water right in the center of town. It just seems to be something that—it was a name that got picked a lot.

	M:	That’s understandable.



	S:	And it had to be pretty pleasant, I mean the houses did have gardens with them and they had—Claronelle’s house had orchards. And they had the whole block initially so they had an orchard and they grew crops and a small farming operation.





	M:	I’ve seen what’s left of the grapes and the other stuff. I’m sure that’s not the same.

	S:	No, right. They had the whole block initially.



	M:	When did people move on to the rest of their—?



	S:	It’s hard to tell. It happens in many other parts of the world. The land got subdivided as children came along, or brothers moved in, or sometimes the families grew and they just subdivided it that way.

	M:	Okay.



	S:	People still do that.



	M:	Yeah, makes sense. Around the same time the neighborhood gets its historic designation, you’re setting up the historic society, my understanding is that Pleasant Street, Fifth Avenue in general was looked at as kind of a ghetto and a drug zone and—

	S:	Well much of Gainesville was in that category. The student ghetto was the student ghetto. Then on the east side you had public housing facilities which were also considered ghettos. Gainesville in 1977 reminded me of nothing so much as Santiago, Chile in the [19]50s when I was dragged there. It’s a third world country. It was a third world country then, and to a certain extent it’s still a third world country. Well, the ghettos are not quite as bad anymore as they were. I mean we had one over here, Porters’ Quarters, that was an absolute scandal, it was worse than any—that’s what you would find in the favelas outside of Sao Paulo.

	M:	That bad?





	S:	Oh, that bad, yes. That bad, and they were all paying rent. Ten dollars a week per room.

	M:	Wow.



	S:	That included the little anterooms, too, so that one of those little shacks, they might be charging seventy dollars a week. And the landlord would come around Saturday morning early to collect his cash.

	M:	Well then who were the property owners at that—I mean who were these—or should I ask that question?

	S:	All fine, upstanding citizens in the community. [Laughter] Absolutely. They were doing these people a service coming around early on Saturday morning to collect the rent. That’s work!

	M:	I guess part of the question was, you mentioned the crime right across from the police station.

	S:	Well they were selling drugs in the street, yeah.



	M:	I’m not insinuating that it was—I guess what I’m wondering is the— S:	Well, I mean I—

	M:	The perception from outside that was going on.



	S:	Personally, I don’t think the state really has any business deciding what somebody can inhale, ingest, excrete, inject, whatever. I think that’s not permissible. I can see regulating hazardous substances, but the really hazardous drugs quite frankly are the ones that are being manufactured by Pfizer and all those other people. It ain’t the little weed or whatever it is that they’re pushing.

There were burglaries, people were very poor, and old Black people have a habit





of keeping their money at home, well because the banks couldn’t be trusted. People in the neighborhood would find out that maybe somebody got their social security check or whatever so there would be little burglaries of people who were not secure in their homes. But that wasn’t really followed up. Even in our neighborhood we had had burglary, after burglary, after burglary. There was like—until finally, one day they arrested one kid, he’s about eighteen, or nineteen year old White kid, home alone. He had burgled at least thirty houses, just this one person. The police weren’t able to do anything until somebody finally, luckily, turned them in. What was the policing doing? One time when they were driving through the neighborhood, I stopped one of them cars and asked them where they were going. It’s like four cop cars all coming down, one after the other. Then they told me that they were on their way to a workshop in some other town. And my husband and I, we used to go for walks early in the morning, and we would walk over to the clock, the clock is over on Main Street, what Eighteenth Avenue or something like that, or Fifteenth Avenue? Where is it?

	M:	It’s been there a while then, huh?



	D:	Yeah, it’s over there on north Main.



	M:	Only twenty-four hour diner in town’s there, yeah.



	S:	Right, so we would walk over from our house in the student ghetto—well, College Park—we would walk over early, early in the morning, and eventually it got to the point where when we walked in, the cops, and the sheriff’s deputies, and the university patrol people would get up and walk out—because they knew that somebody was going to be calling the town administrator or the chief of police





and ask, “How come when we have so few people on patrol, and we can’t provide coverage for the whole community, we can have six of them sitting in the clock at the same time?” So I got burnt out. It was constant. It was really constant.

M:  I can understand. Do you know if in Pleasant Street they had any of their own sort of ways of dealing with the fact that the cops weren’t really helping or not really?

S:  No, most of the population in Pleasant Street was pretty old. M:  Oh, okay.

	S:	Much of it was female. They’re tough old birds, but—the crime thing was largely actually a figment of the imagination. It was an excuse for insurance companies not to write fire policies. It was an excuse for the police to look the other way, and I don’t know what else you know, what else they do, it was an excuse for the city not to provide services. It was even an excuse for the garbage men not to pick up the garbage. I mean, I spent days driving around in back of the garbage truck, as they would wind their way through the neighborhood just to make sure that they actually stopped at each house emptied the cans, because if they weren’t watched, they would just drive through and go for an early coffee break or whatever and not pick the stuff up. Their excuse for not picking the stuff up was because those people have too much garbage. They are throwing out too many things. They don’t deserve to have their stuff picked up, and it’s not nicely bagged. And it’s spread around ‘cause the dogs have gotten into it. Well, after it sits there two or three weeks that’s what happens to it [Laughter]





	D:	In Porters’ remember there was a whole block where the neighbors just gave up and dumped their garbage in this—

	S:	Yes. In the middle of the block, right, they had a dump part. D:	There was a garbage dump right down the street.

	M:	This is in the [19]80s, [19]70s? D:	Just sat there, didn’t it?

	S:	Yes, in the [19]80s!



	D:	I mean this was really unbelievable. Really unbelievable. S:	We went and we started cleaning up.

	M:	You weren’t kidding about favelas, were you?



	S:	No. I was on the housing board, well because they had a housing code which was justifying the eviction of homeowners. They’d write them up and then send them a notice and then they’d tell them that they were condemning the house. That’s how they got all of these houses placarded. I got on the housing board. I think Mark recommended that I get on to the housing board. I got onto the housing board and looked over the code and read the law and the law says that there has to be a clear health and safety hazard and you have to have some program for ameliorating it and actually that’s what the HUD dollars were supposed to be for. They were supposed to be able to have grants, but what the city was doing was that the city was giving grants to slum lords so that they could upgrade the meters on their little houses. Maybe put in a new water heater or something, but the money was not going to homeowners to get their houses fixed up. And besides that, the code as it was originally presented, it just wasn’t





suitable. We worked on that for about three years I think, to get that housing code re-written to the point where we had a graduated thing so that if you got— each violation would be accompanied—there would be points and if you exceeded the points like ten or twelve, I can’t remember the number. Then there would be an order to make corrections, and then having given the order that things had to be corrected if they’ve qualified in the district, they could then apply for help in order to get those corrections made. We wouldn’t have people just chucked out. By the time we got finished, I think it was a good housing code. It was fair, it was related to health and safety requirements, it focused on electrical and plumbing and—the reason you get rodents in houses is ‘cause there’s leaking plumbing, and that’s what attracts it, it attracts the rats, it attracts the mice, it attracts the cockroaches, too, and it also attracts the termites. I discovered that at a house on Seventeenth Street. We had a little tiny drip in a pipe underneath the house and lo and behold, termites were attracted and they climbed up a thing and all of a sudden I had a little termite thing in the middle of a carpet. They had come up underneath the carpet and they ate the back of the carpet and then one day I’m vacuuming and all of a sudden this circle of carpet comes up. [Laughter]

	M:	Wow.



	S:	He crawled underneath the house to see what was going on and there was a little, tiny leak where water had been going down. That attracted the termites.

	M:	Florida’s tough like that. I guess I have one remaining question that kinda gets back to the mission of Pleasant Street Historic Society. Some of the things you





said about Josiah Walls. What kind of memories of historic figures from the area did you encounter within—is there a memory of Josiah Walls?

	S:	Oh no, because he died to long ago.



	M:	So people don’t really talk about him much now?



	S:	No, but we have a historical marker up on University Avenue, and he gets mentioned in the papers and that. Even just getting things into the paper is significant because I discovered that all of the good things that had been done by earlier community leaders just didn’t get recorded. I mean the newspapers only recorded crime. Even when I complained about why weren’t people being featured—the descendants of some of these people, working at Shands, they’re working, they are doctors and chemists and they have positions of stature in the community, but they don’t get covered, and the explanation that I was given by the newspaper was that those people don’t like to be photographed.

	D:	A good excuse as any. S:	Yeah, mmhm.

	M:	I guess that covers most of the questions I have off hand, is there anything else you wanted to add about—?

	S:	Is there anything else that he needs to know? Well, we do need to do something about Claronelle’s house.

	M:	Yes.



	S:	Because she left it to the society and she expected it to be rehabilitated and preserved. I have not had done a close inspection of the structure to know whether or not that’s actually feasible. I mean you could rebuild anything, but—





I’m actually not sure that that location on 8th Avenue in the long run is gonna be most—it’s not gonna show off—the history in the best place. I mean turning that, there’s not parking to turn it into a museum. I don’t know, but the effort of people getting together and making an effort I think is in itself worth a lot, whether or not you actually come to the end product. I think it’s the working together that’s important. One thing, have you gone out to Mr. Butler’s farm?

	M:	I have not been out to the farm, no.



	S:	You should go out to Mr. Butler’s farm. His son now lives out there, but I have a video on YouTube of Mr. Butler’s farm.

	M:	Okay, I’ll look for that. What would the key word be, or how can I—?



	S:	Well you can look on my thing, which is Cyprespond. C-Y-P-R-E-S-P-O-N-D. M:	Just one ‘S’ or—?

	S:	Just one ‘S’, yes, I misspelled it, but that way I got it right away. M:	That works out.

	S:	It’s Youtube.com/cyprespond. I’ve got forty two videos, but there’s two of—are there two of the Butler or—?

	D:	I think two or three.



	S:	There may be three or four of the Butler farm, ‘cause I had to break them down, and when I put them up, they were limiting the size to ten minutes. You can now put up longer ones, but at that point—so there’s four pieces of that, and then there’s also two of Lular Anderson’s quilts. Lular Anderson was Mrs. Butler’s mother. She’s deceased, but she did quilts and we even had an exhibit at the





airport. Donna put that up, ‘cause she was in charge of art in public places, so she put up Lular Anderson’s quilts and exhibits in the airport.

	M:	When was that? A while ago?



	S:	They had to be like in— [19]92, [19]93.



	D:	This was 1993 and an example of her quilt is in the side program. It’s at the end of the show.

	M:	Okay.



	S:	The Butlers have this—



	D:	We have a video interview of her. M:	Oh, really?

	S:	Right, right.



	D:	And of Mr. Butler. S:	Yeah.

	D:	That we did together. M:	Do you—?

	S:	Those are on YouTube, too.



	M:	Okay, do you keep an archive of these or anything, or—? S:	Well I had them on videotape.

	D:	I have the tapes.



	M:	I mean we could probably digitize those if you wanted and store them somewhere.

	S:	I’ve been putting mine on discs. You have to do that in order to get them on YouTube.





	M:	Yeah. [Laughter]



	S:	That’s what I spent this last year doing was going through all my old videotapes and uploading them, the ones that I thought was appropriate. The Butlers wouldn’t mind. Some of the other people might not want to be publically recognized. People are sometimes funny about things like that, but Mr. Butler is very proud of his—they have this pattern which is really very common in Europe where people live in town and then they have their agricultural things on the outside of town. All of northern Iraq, the site was laid out like that until Saddam Hussein made all of the people leave the farmlands and put them into cities so that—I guess what he was planning on doing was industrializing the agriculture, so he had to get the people off the land. And that’s one of the things that the Kurds were very upset about, was that Saddam Hussein removed people from their lands in order to introduce industrialized agriculture.

	M:	Yeah, I’d be pretty upset about that, too, I’d have to say.



	S:	Anyway, that was a pattern that was here. Josiah T. Walls had a house in town, and then he had the truck farm on the edge of Payne’s Prairie. The Indians that were here earlier ran cattle on Payne’s Prairie, and Mr. Butler still has cattle on his land.

	D:	He lives next to Payne’s Prairie and then further west is another prairie.



	S:	There was a self-sustaining community, and there were all these trains so that people that were out in Rochelle, or all of these little towns, there were train lines going by so they could come into Gainesville easily. And then they sent the kids to school, and the kids lived in town, except for when they went back home to the





farm. But the official story for this area was that the Black population had been brought here to work on a couple of—there were maybe three or four plantations in the area, and then after the Civil War, they just continued on. That’s the official story. That most of the people that organized Gainesville came down here from South Carolina isn’t registered. We’ve got the—was it Stringfellow? Well, the Stringfellow was the—

	D:	The Mathesons were from South Carolina.



	S:	Yeah, well some of the White people that came also came from South Carolina.



I’m trying to think of—



	D:	They came, but they knew each other in South Carolina and then they popped in.

	S:	Yeah, but what’s—Haile plantation. The Hailes, now that actually was a plantation that had slave labor on it. But a lot of the people that moved into Pleasant Street came from farther away and had been educated up North, so they started up a newspaper, they started the school, they had a guy was a drayman, hauler of goods, they set up grocery stores, they set up all kinds of enterprises.

	M:	Do you remember the name of the paper?



	D:	Here, I’m looking at Josiah T. Walls’ entry. He proposed legislation for the Fourth of July to celebrate the first hundred years of the country. During this period he purchased the Gainesville newspaper called the New Era, might be thinking that.

	S:	Okay.





	D:	He proposed legislation for public education, for giving land to railroad people to facilitate trade and in [18]84 he was the largest truck grower in the state with 1800 acres. His main crop was tomatoes during the 1890s he directed the farm at what is now Florida A&M. That’s in this and so on—

S:   He had no off—well he had a daughter who was crazy, and his wife died early, so he went over and took a job in Tallahassee at what became the Agricultural and Mechanical, A&M, Agricultural and Mechanical College.

M:   I see.



S:  There were no descendants. That’s one of the really sort of peculiar things about these families is that they weren’t particularly prolific. Even in the earliest census list, they weren’t gigantic, huge families.

M:   Interesting.



	S:	There’re not that many, but they did put in a lot of effort into education and training and continue to send people off to school to other places when they couldn’t get educated here, so that’s where their resources went.

	M:	I mean even now the memory of it, especially Lincoln High, I mean that really gets people kinda fired up.

	S:	Yes, yes. Well because a lot of the teachers, integration resulted in them being retired—and standards falling. One of my favorite sayings is that it’s quite possible for everyone to be equally deprived. Equality does not guarantee quality.

	M:	That’s true enough. Well, speaking of educators I guess, since Claronelle Smith- Griffin donated her house to the historic society, Joel Buchanan interviewed her





for the Sam Proctor Program years ago, but I don’t know if there was anything you wanted to share about Claronelle Smith Griffin.

	S:	Well, Donna has a whole thingy of her. M:	Oh, okay.

	D:	Did I give you this?



	M:	I don’t believe so. This is—?



D:  This is an interview with Claronelle, a video interview, and she does talk about a lot of the people and the education in churches, it’s very interesting, but you can go ahead and you can maybe copy it or something like that.

M:   Yeah, no if you don’t mind that would be great.



	D:	Then you, I already gave you one I’m sure, but just one, right? Doctor Scotty is supposed to get one, so I’m thinking that Melanie has one to give him, but I’m not really confident, these are going fast [Laughter]

	M:	I can imagine. We should be able to copy that pretty easily.



	D:	It shows her house and her yard at that time. It’s very long for the type of interview.

	S:	Well she was very enthusiastic about it and she— D:	Oh, absolutely was, yeah.

	S:	In every community there are jealous people, and some of her relatives are jealous of her success, or of her prominence, or of her getting credit for stuff. That’s very difficult to explain, ‘cause often times this jealousy, there’s really no basis for it, but people are jealous. They undermine each other instead of supporting each other. Some of Claronelle’s relatives are jealous of her because





she went off and she was a teacher in St. Petersburg and then came back and had a position of some prominence. For some reason, there seems to be—I don’t know if it’s not really—there’s an ambivalence. The people who were not able to get an education here, so they sent their children off if they could to get an education or make their way someplace else. The people that were left behind resent the people that got to go off. I’m not sure why exactly, but they do. When I was first here, there was a whole bunch of youngish African American males in their early, mid-twenties, and what they frequently repeated was that they were not going to be driven out of their hometown. By God, they were gonna make it here, and that—I don’t know what’s happened, but they started a little radio station, they started any number of enterprises, and I don’t know what’s happened to them. You know the guy that lived across the street from A. Quinn Jones in that funny carpenter house that--—.I don’t know what happened to them. There were some younger people here who were—Alvin Bulter’s son went to UF and played in the NFL for a couple years. And he’s now back on the farm. But Alvin was married to a woman from away, Avis. Avis was hired by the city as a—I think she was a human resource person—or grants coordinator, something like that. She had the two children and then she got a job in Orangeburg, South Carolina and they divorced and she left. He stayed. I think quite a few—there’s that problem about to get ahead you have to split up.

	M:	I see. You think that persists, or you think that—?



	S:	I don’t know, but it’s something that might be interesting to explore. Especially with women now wanting to have their own careers. The system sort of forces





them to split. Either that or the female is willing to be subordinate to the male. In this society, it’s not just race specific, it’s the society’s organized—I have a daughter whose got a PhD from Yale, and she’s married to a PhD from Yale, and he got a permanent job out in New Mexico at Los Alamos, and she didn’t. She went there on a post-doc. He was a trailing spouse and he got a permanent job. She didn’t. So now she’s playing mommy and raising two kids. That’s the way society—

	D:	That’s really true that if you can’t both get a job in the same place, you’re out of luck. It really has a bad impact, I think, not just on the person that’s out of luck—

	S:	But on the community.



	D:	The family unit could also be under stress for this. S:	Right.

	M:	Oh yeah.



	S:	Yeah, and that—



	D:	This is something I hadn’t thought about on these broad terms.



	S:	Yeah, it’s not just the Black community. These are patterns. And in fact the patterns that were to a certain extent uniquely directed towards the Black community, are now being directed really towards everyone. Everybody is being equally deprived, and the country is not the better for it. Some of the Black community may well say, “Well it serves you all right; they’ve been doing that to us forever.” They jip them on their rent, they jip them on their utilities, they jip them on their car loans, they jip them on their land, buying it at auction when the tax bills didn’t—they got lost in the mail, people didn’t remember to pay their





taxes, so they’d have a tax sale, and the tax assessor and his buddies would buy up the land. That’s how a lot of the land up in the western side of 1644 got into the hands of slum lords. There were court decisions.

	M:	That’s how they do it I guess. S:	Yep! That’s how they—

	M:	The institutional—



	S:	That’s how it’s done, right. That’s how it’s done. D:	Now everybody is losing their houses.

	S:	Yes, exactly. It’s the same scam. The only way you can stop it, you have to change the legislation, ‘cause a lot of the stuff is done under cover of law and it’s all legal. You give notice, and you wait thirty days and nobody—they didn’t get the notice, whatever, and you go ahead, and it’s all legal. In Florida, they’ve got this huge mortgage mess, because they didn’t record the mortgages in the books like they were supposed to. Now they’re trying to collect. Well it’s a huge mess. I can remember when they started going off of paper. The first house we bought here in [19]78, we still got a—when we sold it we got a paper book of all of the deeds and everything that had went back all the way back to the beginning. They handed that over to us ‘cause they didn’t wanna keep that in there in the warehouse or wherever it was that those kinds of things were being kept. Once they got rid of the actual paperwork, it was easy to just forget to record stuff. Who would know? Now we got this MERS, this electronic—what is it? Mortgage, electronic, something system. Stands for that. Anyway, it’s being challenged in court as we speak and it’s probably, most of those things are gonna be declared





actually having been done illegally, and so the banks are gonna be out of a whole lot of money. But that did not get caught until there was a couple of judges; there was one judge in Texas and I think there was another judge in Ohio, who all of a sudden instead of just taking the word of the people that were coming in with their little clipboards and trying to foreclose, ask them to see the paperwork. A couple of judges. And then it turned out that they didn’t have the paperwork.

They couldn’t find the paperwork, so then in Florida, they started making up the paperwork. That’s what the big scandal is here. I saw it when I used to go down to the courthouse and watch what was going on. We had small claims court and the judges were used to people, credit card banks, the representatives of merchants who’d sold furniture and stuff, they’d come in to small claims court and they’d run off these names and nobody would show up to contest it. And so the judgments were all in favor of these companies, and nobody checked any paperwork. And so when it got to the mortgages, I think they just did the same thing. They didn’t bother providing documentation. And nobody ever looks at it, why bring it in?

	M:	I don’t know if you have a—when you were talking about the institutional ways I guess of using the law, doing things that may not be in the spirit of the law, but are to the letter of the law, I don’t know if you felt that there was anything legitimate in what Charles Chestnut was saying the other week or two about the ways historic preservation has sort of—

	S:	Well, Charles is making stuff up. M:	Okay, so that’s not accurate?





S:  Charles is talking though his hat, if he had a hat on. He’s been like that for a long time. I could never get him to participate in anything, even though I went and had meetings with him at his mortuary and so on—

D:  People, they are proprietary, people I would say, proprietary about their own history.

S:   That too.



	D:	This really can be very strong sentiment. I mean, I can like in my family, my brother feels that way, and I did a family history, a broad family history, not just our little unit, and I gave him a copy and he just threw it in the truck. [Laughter] I don’t think he ever looked at it. He doesn’t need me to do this, and it’s really his stuff and why am I throwing it all around. I mean I’m not kidding.

	S:	That’s true.



	D:	That’s pretty, I thought extreme, but it might be a common thing.



	S:	Yeah, among some people, and some people really don’t like to have their picture taken, and some people come up with all kinds of excuses for why they don’t wanna have their picture taken. Other people, like my mother, I discovered just very recently, don’t recognize themselves. When somebody takes a picture of them and then shows it to them and tells them that this is you, they don’t recognize themselves. And that I think it’s probably quite upsetting.

	M:	Yeah, I could see that.



	S:	My mother had pictures of herself in a group. She knew she was in that group, but she could never find herself.

	D:	Well, I don’t think that’s common.





S:   Well it’s probably not common, but Oliver Sachs has recently discovered that he is something called “face blind.” There’s a word for it actually. They’re studying it up at Boston College, that it seems to be quite common for people not to be able to recognize other people’s facial characteristics. They may be able to recognize the voice or they may be—

	D:	Maybe this comes on with elderly people. S:	Nope, not necessarily.

	D:	It would come on more with elderly people, this could become—



	S:	Well, everybody forgets some people, sometime, but they’re now doing studies on people who really don’t recognize facial features.

	M:	I’ve heard of that phenomenon, actually.



	S:	Yeah, and Oliver Sachs discovered it when he went to visit his brother down in Australia, and discovered that his brother has this characteristic. His brother is also a physician, but I guess they were somehow split up, but his brother has an office manager who explains before every patient that comes in, she gives him a narrative of who this person is and when this person was last here, and tells him about that so that’s how he compensates for the fact that he doesn’t recognize them.

	M:	Fair enough. I guess we should probably wrap up the interview unless you have any final comments?

	S:	That’s good. No, we need money. [Laughter] M:	Well, that’s—

	S:	That’s the final comment.





	M:	Fair enough. All right, well thank you very much on behalf of the Sam Proctor Program.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Toni-Lee Maitland, May 2014



	Audit-edited by:	Anupa Kotipoyina, December 13, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019