AAHP 032; Williams; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 032 Earl Williams

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Josh Moore on June 3, 2010

1 hour, 6 minutes | 22 pages



Abstract: Earl Williams graduated from Lincoln High School in Gainesville, Florida in 1964. He served for nine years in the Army Reserves. Mr. Williams shares his memories of growing up in Alachua County during Jim Crow segregation, and shares some of his family history in the area. He reflects at length on his experiences at Lincoln High and the continued importance that those experiences have had in his life.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Lincoln High School]

























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 032

Interviewee: Earl Williams Interviewer: Josh Moore Date: June 3, 2010



	M:	This is Josh Moore interviewing Mr. Earl Williams at his house. The date is June 3rd, 2010. All right, Mr. Williams, if you would like to start off: where were you originally born at?

	W:	I was born and raised about a thousand feet from where my house sits now. And I've been here sixty-six years.

	M:	Did you live in another home down the street?



	W:	Yes I did, it was a family home about a thousand feet from where my house sits now. I shared the home with my sisters and brothers. I had older sisters and brothers but, they were beyond my age so we weren't raised in the same house.

	M:	What is the earliest memory you have of the Gainesville area?



	W:	I can remember, this is long before interstate 75 came through, there was a cow pasture where the interstate comes through. I think it was the early sixties when they began construction, building it. Actually, I started school in 1949 in a little small school over near were Buchholz High School is now. I went one year there and then I began first grade at A. Quinn Jones Elementary School and I was there for six years. Then when New Lincoln was built in 19—it had to be 1957 when it opened, and I was there until graduation in 1962. So I graduated in 1962.

	M:	There you go. What was Florida like growing up during that time?



	W:	Actually, well, right here where we are now, there is three Black families in this community here and it’s about eighty acres in here, and we were all poor, and didn't really know we were poor. Didn’t know we were poor until I was in about ninth grade when I realized the stuff that other kids had. But I never had a hungry





day in my life because my father was a farmer and there was always food in the house. I’m sixty-six years old and never had a hungry day in my life. And then with five kids in the house at the time, there were always food then. So there was never a hungry day in my life.

	M:	Were your parents originally from the Gainesville area?



W:  Yes, my mother was raised right here in this community and so was my father; they both were raised here. My great, great, great grandfather came as a slave from South Carolina and he purchased this property back in the 1800's. These three Black families been in here since the 1800's.

	M:	You said you have five brothers and sisters? W:	Actually, I have three sisters and five brothers. M:	There you go. How old are they?

	W:	Well, right now, there’s only five of us living right now. My mother died when I was at the age of six and my baby sister, she was three at the time. So my second oldest sister, she was a senior in high school—my mother died in March, and she graduated in June, so she raised us. My sister raised us from, from the time my mother died. And a few years later my father remarried, and I have another brother from him. So, he'd be the baby. It’s only five of us left now.

	M:	Did you end up marrying somebody here?



	W:	Yes, my first wife I married back in 1968; she’s a high school sweet heart. And that marriage lasted about four years. We divorced and there was two sons from that marriage. Then I was single for thirteen years and I met my second wife and we married in 1981, I think. But in February of 2006, she passed; she died of





breast cancer. And I have one son from her and he’s twenty-eight now. So I have been a widower for four years.

	M:	Do any of your children live on this property here? Or are they—?



	W:	No, I have my second son, he live not far from here and my oldest son, he live on the east side of town and he’s a probation officer; he have two children. And my second son oldest he have three. And my baby son, he’s the one who’s twenty- eight, we are expecting his first child either tomorrow or Sunday. So I will be getting a new grandchild this weekend.

	M:	Congratulations on that one. What values did you instill in your kids while they were growing up here in Gainesville?

	W:	To be self-sufficient, and to pursue whatever they want to in life because it is available there for them. My oldest son, my first wife given him a choice: “You either go to college or you go in the Service.” And he said he didn’t think he could make it in the Service, ‘cause during that time it was during the Vietnam War, and you heard so much about the war and he just didn't want to go there. So he attended Florida A&M. I thought one time that he was going to be a career student because he was up there for seven years before he got his degree. So he finally got his degree. He majored in Criminology, so he’s a probation officer now and he’s very satisfied with his career. And my second son, he attended Fire College down in Ocala and he’s a fireman now with Gainesville Fire Department, and he’s doing well. And my youngest son he attended Florida A and M [Florida Agriculture and Mechanical University] but he never got his degree. So, I keep pushing him to do so but he… after his mother passed…he just got a job. He





doing well; he’s out on his own. After graduation, we moved him in an apartment in Tallahassee, and he’s basically been on his own since then. He came back to stay with me for about three weeks at the time his mother died. And that was long enough for him to get an apartment, because he moved to Miami for about three years. He come back home and he’s doing well, but he’d rather be on his own and I’d rather him be on his own.

	M:	That’s what my mom says all the time! [Laughter]



	W:	Right, it’s tough love; because that’s what my father did with me. He said, “There’s nothing free in this life, you have to work for what you want.” And I instilled that in them. And they'll always come back for, you know, to borrow money or whatever, but the kid’s going to be like that all their lives so. Those are things you know, are what parents look out for the children.

	M:	What other values did your parents pass down to you when you were a kid?



	W:	Being self-sufficient, and work for what you want. We weren’t raised to be a thief.



We were from a Christian family. My father was a preacher, and I had two brothers that are also gospel preachers, and myself, I’m a deacon. So those religious beliefs were instilled in us. In fact, this whole community here, the older people from the community, we had to go to church all the time. My dad was a preacher; we leave home eight-thirty in the morning, come back around ten at night ,because he pastured two churches. One was in Orange Heights, and that means we’re going all day. And the members would feed us during the time between breaks in church. So there was always this religious belief and being in church was a thing we had to do. ‘Course then when I turned nineteen I thought





myself was grown. So I said, “I’ll never go to church again. I had enough church for my life.” So that lasted ‘til I got into my thirties and then I find out in the world, it wasn't all that great. So I come back to church and started attending church and I been there ever since. Those are the things that were instilled in all our lives that you must reverence God for who he is, believe in him and you draw strength from him. So those were the things that brought me to where I am now. I was able to retire from a job of thirty-five years, the same job for thirty-five years, and I’m reaping the benefits of it now so. Those little small things that you learn early in your life, it lasts for a lifetime. And those are the things that my parents instilled in us, and I’m putting that in my kids so they can be self sufficient and give God praise for all the things that you receive in your life.

	M:	What job did you work for thirty-five years?



	W:	I worked for the Alachua county school board for thirty-five years. I come out of high school and went into the service. I had a choice of going to Vietnam or going into the reserves. So I chose to go into the reserves because in 1963 and [19]64 was when the Vietnam War began. And during that time it escalated and I was in the reserves, but I was on standby to go to Vietnam. Then I also had a choice to go there, so I chose not to go. And I started to working at the UF just before I went in. I worked there for two and a half years and I went into service. When I come back, my job wasn't open, so I had to take a median job to get me through. I had gotten married about that time, so I was working part time at a hamburger place there, until I got a temporary job at the school board. It was only be for three weeks. They were putting in furniture in the new school that were being





built; Buchholz, Eastside, various—I think there was four schools—they were opening that year. I think it was in August of 1970 was when I was put on permanent. From July I worked there as part-time, temporary. There was a guy that quit and there was a job opening, so I thought well I could stay here for a while, then I can move on further my education and go into another job. But then I was beginning to like the job; eventually I liked the job so I stayed there for thirty-five years. I’m glad I didn't leave because I probably still working, but I was able to stay there for thirty-five years and retire with benefits. So, I can sit home now and wake up every morning and decide what I’m not going to do. Now, today after you leave, I think I’m going to go hook my boat up and go fishing. But I’ll be fishing tomorrow. I fish twice a week. And today was going to be one of the days but I forgot I had, couple weeks ago, put in this interview. So I’m going out later on today. I’ll go out a couple hours today and I’ll fish about four hours tomorrow.

	M:	I'll have to talk to you later about where a good spot is to go fishing up here. W:	Okay.

	M:	How did you feel about the education system in Gainesville when you were younger?

	W:	The education system back then it was all-Black school; and when you left home, you left your parents at home and you received your second parents when you got to school. The administrators at that time were caring teachers. They would find where you were slacking in some of your studies and they would take time to make sure that you learned. And some of the kids that didn't want to learn are the





kids that had learning disabilities. They were put in special grades where they can get the attention that they needed. The teachers were so caring, they would call your parents and they would discipline. Back then, it wasn't you can't spank my child, or whatever, you just got a good spanking and that’s it. I think I had two teachers, they weren't spanking it was a few licks on the hand; just the look that they would give you was enough intimidation right there. They really didn’t have to hit you, they just had to call you before you- threaten to call your parents. You know you were going to get a whooping after you got home, were going to get a killing after you got home, so it was basically a bad thing. The teachers back then, they made sure you were able to eat. In fact there was a couple of days, I didn't have my lunch money, one of my teachers were there to buy my lunch.

They were caring teachers that came through Lincoln. And each student that came through Lincoln would have a different story. And tell you an experience they had coming through Lincoln High School.

	M:	Besides Lincoln and the elementary school you mentioned, what other schools did you at go to?

	W:	Those were the only high schools. M:	That’s it?

	W:	Right, because back then it was only one Black school, one high school. There were Williams Elementary, Duval Elementary and the other kids that came from smaller towns where from Hawthorne and Archer; they also attended Lincoln High School. There was an elementary school in Archer and there was one in Hawthorne but there was only one high school. So they had to come from





Archer, Hawthorne, Arredondo, and those areas. The ones north of the highway patrol station, they attended Mebane High School in Alachua. And the ones that come from Newberry and High Springs, in that area, they attended Mebane. So they where rival schools, Mebane, and Lincoln because they were the only two high schools in this area.

	M:	Were the rivalries rough?



	W:	Just during football season. And the Lincoln High School Big Red Terriers dominated all the schools in this district. When Coach Herr came here, we were winners. So there was Howard in Ocala; they feared us. Union Academy in Palatka, they feared us; Daytona, Orlando, all of those high schools— Tallahassee—all of those feared us, because we were so great during that time. And when we went to Daytona and Palatka, we had to beat them twice. You had to beat them on the field, and you had to beat them off the field trying to get to your vehicle to come home. [Laughter] Because when they lose, they want to fight. Those was schools that wasn't very pleasant about losing; they were sore losers. But I guess they just dusted themselves off, and let us have our heyday. It was great being a champion during those times.

	M:	What were your favorite classes at Lincoln?



	W:	Where my best grades were, was in English; wasn’t very good in Physical Ed because of my size. The kids was so much larger than I; in football, those guys would like to hurt you, you know, to make a name for themselves. ‘Cause my class mates, they were about three brothers, they called them the Carter Boys. They were awesome players, but they were also intimidating. I was too short for





basketball, and I was too small for football. So the only thing I could do is play with the girls. While they were out on the football team, or on the football field, I would play with the girls. That was my sport, yes.

	M:	And a sport it is indeed. What were your favorite teachers there? At Lincoln?



	W:	All of them were my favorite. But there was three that every student feared. And that was Bear Jones, his name was Robert Jones, we called him Bear Jones because he’s a huge guy, and he was also a part of football coaching staff. T.B. McPherson, everyone feared him. And J. Franklin Jones, he would have you come into his room—you could not be late—he would have you come into his room, and he'd start by row. He called rows by numbers. He’d come in, sit down, and he’d say, “Roll call by numbers, please.” And if you missed your number, you got to stand for that whole class for that day. And if you missed your number twice, you had to stand up for that class for the whole week. He was okay, but he'd threaten you a lot; he wasn’t as bad as Bear Jones and T.B. McPherson.

But my favorite teacher was Ms. F.M Jones, Ruby Washington; there was some teachers that you just had to love because of the tough love that they given to you. So there wasn't any of my teachers that I disliked because they were all caring teachers. And they would go out on a limb for you. If [they] see where you wanted to learn, they would take the time with you. And if you would need some help in your studies, they were there to help you.

	M:	Mr. Bear Jones, what did he do in class?



	W:	He was a social studies teacher. A lot of the students thought he was mean, but he had to have that image. He mostly was a teddy bear, but he'd act as a grizzly





bear you know, to put that intimidation. He was a huge guy, but he's a great teacher. And as long as you come in and complete your work, you were all right with him. But then if you wanted to be unruly, he can come down on your level and be a little unruly with you also. T.B. McPherson, he was the football coach. He’s the athletic director, and he would stand by his office door just before classes changed, and he would stand there and the guys that didn’t go in to take their showers, he would stand there at his door, and if you didn’t take a shower he would know it. The girls’ locker room was right across from his office door.

Just before the bell rang, everybody wait to change classes, and if you didn't take a shower he would call you over here, “Come here ranky! Girls, look at ol' ranky here! He didn't take his bath!” He would shame you; he would embarrass you by not taking your bath, so you better take your shower after you come in from PE because he will embarrass you. But he’s also a great teacher. Those were my favorites because they give you tough love and that’s just what you needed back then. If you get too easy with a student, they try to get by without doing the work and stuff. But, not at Lincoln you couldn't. You couldn't do that.

	M:	What were your favorite activities to do at Lincoln besides school and stuff like that?

	W:	Actually, it was so long ago, I enjoyed PE. My friends and I and some of my class mates getting girlfriends was the topic of the day. You know chasing girls was the activity then we really enjoyed doing. Some of the girls, back at that time, you couldn't come see them because of their parents, they didn’t play that. They only time you could see them was at school. Everybody didn't have telephones back





at that time, so the only time you could see them was at school, pass notes, and stuff like that because telephones wasn't very common at that time. Going to games were really a big thing, football and basketball, ‘cause there were so many outstanding athletes that attended Lincoln at that time. And most went to go play professional ball. Like one, well just pasted about a month ago, he played for the Buffalo Bills. He was the defensive tackle for O.J Simpson. That’s how

O.J Simpson got most of his runs because the tackles that he made to open up, opened up a hole for him to do it. He was his leading tackle. He just passed about a month ago in April. Doing the Alumni Association, we recognize the students that accomplished career goals, and we honor them every two years, we recognize administrators and students that excelled at Lincoln. This year we did some athletes and then we induct them into our hall of fame like students and teacher alike. And we still have some of the teachers that are able to still attend, and those that are not attending, the do send a note let us know they aren't able to attend. But it’s great to having them being honored in the things they’ve done, the things they instilled in our lives.

	M:	What were the biggest traditions at the football games? And stuff like that?



	W:	Homecoming. Homecoming was the highlight of each year. Back then, we made floats with paper napkins. You take chicken wire and you dress up the float and then you take those, the little holes in the chicken wire, and you place the napkins in there, and that’s what made the float. It takes time to cover each little hole when your pack in those paper napkins into those holes. The end result is beautiful. The highlight of that was the big parade and then homecoming night at





the football game. That was the highlight for everyone in the Black community, ‘cause they attended and there was standing room only at Citizen’s Field because so many people there. Mostly they’d just stand around the fence line and some had to stand outside the field and look through the fence because there were so many people in there.

	M:	There you go. Anything else there after the basketball games?



	W:	Basketball games, we'd fill the gym because we had one player, an awesome player, Frank Johnson. He was the highlight of everything, but he got injured before he was able to go into college in pro basketball. He was the highlight of the game because he was so great. The gym was packed every time there was a home game. They had a lot of students that would follow the team, those that had vehicles because some of the students had access to vehicles. They would load up there vehicles and travel to wherever the games were.

	M:	Did you receive any awards from Lincoln?



	W:	No, no, because I wasn't actually athletic because of my size. There was some guys that where much bigger than me. There was a group of us short guys.

Those big guys, they dominated all the sports, so they'd taken up all those awards. And so, that left us smaller guys to cheer just them on and be supportive of them. [Laughter] It was rough being short. It was rough. During the time at school I followed sports. And that was our highlight in school because the girls thought that if you didn't play sports you were nobody. You know, you had to have the jacket with the letter and all of this stuff, you had to make a touchdown or all of this stuff; that’s what excited the girls back then. They were all running





behind the football players. It was rough being a short guy coming through high school at Lincoln.

	M:	When you heard Lincoln was going to be turned into a vocational school, rather than an integrated high school, like Gainesville High, what where your first reactions?

	W:	I was pretty much disappointed, but I was gone. I was gone in [19]62 and they made this decision in [19]69. The students, especially the class of [19]70, they were in between the school year, it ended at the end of the year, like in December. So that mean that they would not get a Lincoln diploma, but they attended Lincoln until that particular time. Those four years that they where there, they wanted a Lincoln diploma instead of a GHS diploma at that time. And then go on to Eastside, another segregated school, but they were very disappointed.

What we accomplished there as a Lincoln High Terrier that can never be replaced. The students that were in during that year, they were hurt most. The class of [19]69, they were the last marching class of Lincoln High School. So they were able to get the Lincoln High Diploma. But the class of [19]70 they were, they were mostly heartbroken about that. There was nothing I could do at the time that I attended Lincoln. It was what I grew on. It was just heart breaking for that class of [19]70.

	M:	What was segregation like in Gainesville when you were a kid, when you where in high school, and everything like that?

	W:	Oh man, I can remember where the court house is down town now, before they tore that down, there was an old court house there. There was a fountain outside





that read, “White Only” and the bathrooms for the Blacks were in the basement. You had to go down in the basement for the restroom and the Whites were on the first floor. And sometimes the the toilet would overflow, and all the water and the urine and stuff would flow down in the basement where the Blacks would have to use the restroom. Then it’s all on the floor, and all the strong ammonia scent, you know how a bathroom smell when you get urine all over the floor and stuff. And it was, especially in the summer, because it was so hot down there— you could barely breathe you know? [Laughter] It was rough coming in there when we had to go. A lot of places “White Only,” like eating places, and going to the back door of different places. You grew up during that time, so it was, I was small then, and that’s just the way life was back then. Everywhere you go there was a place for Blacks; there was a place for Whites. To me now, I look back on it, and it's something I wouldn't want to go through again. It was rough coming up during that time because there’s certain places you couldn't go, and the places you were able to go, it was just degrading the way you was treated once you got there. You spending your money there and got to take this, like you go somewhere and you standing in line and a White person come up, you got to step out of line and let them be waited on first and stuff like that. So, I experienced all of that stuff.

	M:	What’s the one memory you recall that was the most traumatic to you or most memorable to you during that time?

	W:	I can't think of any incident right offhand, because when we did go into town we didn't go but once a week, and that was on Saturdays. My dad would leave early





during the day and we would stay here all day because there were other preachers down town and they hang around the feed store, they sold groceries in bulk like: twenty-five pounds of rice, twenty-five pounds of flour, and stuff like that. And most of the Blacks hung around that place so the owners there they were ok, as long as all Blacks were there. But when some Whites would come up there, the owners, you know, they would act a little different towards the Blacks. And at that time, you know you had to experience that stuff. Your stores, there was only one or two stores we could go to, that actually excepted Blacks there.

One was McCrory’s Ten Cent Store; can't think of the other one. McCrory’s was over where the courthouse is now and the other one was Woolworth’s, that’s the other one, Woolworth’s, a little dime store. My dad would give us a dime and we would run to the store there and we'd spend twenty to thirty minutes in there trying to spend that dime and stuff. There was a certain place you had to stand in line to go pay for it and stuff. I never really had a racial encounter downtown and stuff because once we left town we were back out here, we call our acre “wood” because there was nothing in this area, here. Once you came to Roy Park here? The city limit stopped there. And from there, there was only five or six houses along this way, all the way to Newberry because it was a one lane road then, one lane highway. I can remember when my dad saying—mentioning one time said, “One day, this is gonna be a big highway coming through here.” And we'd look back at him like what are you talking about? That was, but that was way back then, early [19]50s or late [19]50s. That’s before they expanded the road. There was a time a car would pass by, every now and then a car would pass, and now





you can't even cross the street because of the traffic. Beginning up here at the road there, it was back all the way up to where four o'clock is there were all tung trees there where north Florida sits. From there, that was all tung oil and as you go on the top of the hill just past the crystals right by K-Mart, on the left over there back in that community. There was a factory over there where they would turn this tung oil into varnish; that’s what they would make paint varnish paint out of. This tung oil, in fact, I have a tree out there with tung oil, it’s a little nut like that. It grows and they squeeze the oil out of it to make varnish for paints. So that was basically where most of the people in the community got their money, from picking up tung oil, and seems like it was about four cents a bucket. It was good money back then because it didn't take very much, five dollars can go a long way back then. Even a dollar would go a long way and you know back at that time. It’s pretty much what every person in this community worked for other than they crops that they raised and taking their time on Saturdays to sell because all this in here was all farm area in here. With cows, horses, pigs and so on. But there’s was, actually all of this in here was farms. Everybody in here had hogs. My uncle had his own smoke house. Of course he had fifteen kids he had to feed. So each year, he'd kill about seven hogs each year and he would smoke the meat and those seven hogs would last the whole year. Course back then he'd salt sugar- cured hams and stuff and that preserved the meat. He raised everything up there. I think the only thing he had to buy was flour, coffee, and sometimes sugar. Because he got his sugar from the sugar cane he made, he made sure everything was done there. There were canned and preserved vegetables, fruits





and stuff. They never had a hungry day in their lives either, my cousins, never had a hungry day either because there was always something to eat. So, growing up as a kid was great. We were poor and didn't really know it.

	M:	You said your dad was a pastor at two churches? W:	Yes

	M:	What two churches?



	W:	He pastored one in Orange Heights and he pastored one in Orlando. There was first and third at one church and second and fourth at the other church. Up until his later years, he pasted in [19]72 and up until he passed, he was still preaching. Going to church every Sunday—all day. You had to go; there was no choice, you had to go. Whether you want to or not, you had to go. And we were small at that time; we were small throughout that time anyway. My mother had passed and as I said my sister was raising us at that time. And then my brother’s children as they came up, she began to raise them also. So they call her Aunt Ma. She live right behind me here. All of us live right here in this community here. I’m right here, my baby brother is in this corner, my brother next to me, he’s right behind me, and my older sister she’s next to him and my baby sister is in that corner, and my second oldest sister is over here, and my oldest brother is over in this corner. So there’s ten acres in here, we'll all here, right here together. Then I have one half-brother, he's passed now, he was in Cleveland Ohio, he lived up there his whole life. He left here to go into the war, and never came back. He left at seventeen, never came back. He came home about four times. He spent his whole life in Cleveland.





	M:	Did you ever leave Gainesville for any reason? For work or anything like that?



	W:	No, no, no, no, no point in time. The only time I left was during the time I was in the service and I come back. I’ve been right here in this community. Of course, I move over town when I got married the first time. I moved across town and live over there for three or four years and then I moved back here into the community. From there into, you know, you have a roommate in apartments and stuff. I finally came back in [19]80. I think it was around 1980 when I moved back here, and I started building the house in 1983. So I’ve been here since I moved in the house around [19]86, so I’ve been right here since 1986.

	M:	Were you apart of the, or are you now still, part of any organizations in the community?

	W:	Just the Lincoln High School Alumni Association, I’m part of that organization besides my church. That’s basically it now. I was in some of the organizations. I was in Workers United; it was a group of guys that helped people that’s in need like they get burned out or they get put out of their homes. We had funds so we was able to help them. All we required was that you come to one of the members with a letter stating your conditions and we would go before the community and we would write them a check, you know, we’d help them get on their feet. A couple of guys that were there would pass, and they started getting slack and slack and then it was just faded out. But during that time, which lasted about ten years, we given out close to a hundred thousand dollars helping people. There are still some of the guys that we're still close but we, we don't have the funds now to help people as we did back then.





	M:	Well, getting back to Lincoln, what were like your favorite memories, taken from the school besides classes, teachers, foot ball games and stuff like that?

	W:	Meeting the new classmates and finding out their goals and what they’re going to do with their lives after school and that’s a lot of the things that we talked about. A lot of students were poor like myself and wasn't able to go from high school into college and so on. They had to find alternate careers to go in. Several of my classmates are still working because they feel that—they still have good health and—they just like to work. But for me it’s been six years for me this coming December and I’m enjoying retirement. I just I love being retired. There’s sometimes I think maybe I could get a part time job and then I say, “That’s going to mess with my fishing!” When the fish start biting, I’m not working, so. I’ve been blessed to be where I am at this point where I don't have to go out and get a job. So that’s one blessing there that I enjoy. I do have classmates that still work because I think because they want to and because they have to; I’m not sure what their situation but we see each other from time to time. A few of us, we still meet and we'll go to one of the classmate’s house and we just sit and enjoy each other’s companies, if it’s not only but a few hours, just keep in touch with each other and see how they’re doing. So pretty much, we're a close class. Back in the years, we’re the class of [19]62, and all the classes that gone though Lincoln, they respected us as being the closest that we have. Each year we still on the 3rd of July we would do a homecoming and we would invite all the classes to attend our little gala because we always put on a little skit. This past reunion a couple months ago, we was going to put the classes on a parade and we had classes





there from 1943 up into 1970. So it was about eleven of those classes they did their little skit and stuff. They were all looking for the class of [19]62 to put on some performance or some skit, or so, so. They tried their best to outdo us, they tried, they tried their little best to outdo us but they just couldn't do. But they know that the class of [19]62 was going bring it to them. And we would brag all this time saying, “Ya'll better do what ya’ll going to do because the class of [19]62 is bringing it.” After the affair was over, we were giving a plaque to the class that have the most in attendance. We didn't have the most in attendance but we put on the best performance, so they give us props for that. I think the class of [19]69 had the most members—class of [19]66 had the most in attendance, but some of them left, and see they had to be present at that time and counted at the end of the program. But the class of [19]66 did have more class members but since theirs left, the class of [19]69 had the most participation. We did, we had the best performance. We still reigning champions.

	M:	The class wars still continue. W:	Yes.

	M:	Are there still a lot of students that went to Lincoln in the area here?



	W:	Oh yes, there’s a lot. Not a whole lot of them that out of town. After a reunion, I’ve seen a lot of them returning now. They’ve gone ahead to different states, mostly northern states, with their age and the cold they want to come back home and I met a lot of them that have moved back home now. Some were saying because of the weather; they’re too old to take the winters up there, so they moved back home. We had quite a few that are coming back to home. I think





there was one in Texas. She owned a radio station out there. We have lawyers in Virginia, we have surgeons in Virginia. Different states that we have surgeons, lawyers, doctors doing their private practice. In every walks of life we have students that attended Lincoln that we know and some school administrators and so on. Every position you can find, there is someone who attended Lincoln in that field.

	M:	After Lincoln, you may have said this before, did you go directly into the work force or directly into the military? Or did you go—

	W:	I went into the military because during that time I was going to be drafted. What I did, I volunteered because they made the big draft in 1963. I volunteered in November, I think it was November 23rd is when I went to volunteer, because I was going to be drafted in [19]64 so I volunteered in [19]63 and I attended my first day of basic training was March 4th of 1964. So, by volunteering into the service that kept me from being drafted into the army and going to Vietnam and during that time I didn't want to go to Vietnam. So, by volunteering for the reserve, I missed it. But, once I was in the reserve I had the choice to re-up and join the regular armed forces. So I spent six years in the reserve, no nine years in the reserve.

	M:	After that did you go to any kind of school?



	W:	No, the only thing I taken some classes while I was in the service. When I came out, I think that was in [19]64? I went into the work force in [19]65, and then I got locked into to the work force then. And then a couple of years after that my first son was born and so I had to work then. I stayed in the work force from then. I





think around 1970 I was hired at the school board. So I stayed there for thirty-five years.

	M:	Well, Mr. Williams is there anything you would like to add that think I left out possibly?

	W:	At this point, I think we mostly covered everything from coming up from a child up until this present time. It’s partially my life story. That’s my life story.

[End of interview]





	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019