AAHP 060A; Dupree; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu





AAHP 060A Sherry Sherrod Dupree African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Jazan Northrop on June 17, 2009 54 minutes | 30 pages



Abstract: Sherry Sherrod Dupree discusses some of the personal and historical significance of the Rosewood Massacre in her view as a researcher who has devoted a great deal of her time into not only uncovering more of the history, but creating exhibits and tours, and outreaching to Rosewood survivors and their descendants. She relates her experiences in working with these families, and in creating public programming and exhibits. She also discusses the challenges in bringing Black history curriculum into schools in Florida, and more generally creating a more honest portrayal of the state’s history. Ms. Dupree talks about some of her family history, which sprawls from Florida to North Carolina, to New York, and into Montreal, and her memories of growing up in North Carolina and dealing with segregation both where she lived and when she traveled. She also describes some of her work on the Dozier School for Boys in Marianna, Florida, and some of her other work in fighting historical injustices that have not yet been redressed.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County; Levy County; Rosewood, Florida; Jackson County, Florida; Dozier School for Boys]



Standards:

	SS.912.A.7.6 Assess key figures and organizations in shaping the Civil Rights Movement and Black Power Movement.

	SS.912.A.7.7 Assess the building of coalitions between African Americans, whites, and other groups in achieving integration and equal rights.



AAHP 060A

Interviewee: Sherry Dupree Interviewer: Jazan Northrop Date: June 17, 2009



	D:	My name is Sherry Sherrod Dupree. We’re here in Gainesville, Florida at the University of Florida, and I’m here for an oral interview this afternoon. This is for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, a part of the University of Florida.

Today’s date is Tuesday the seventeenth of June, and the time is roughly 1:15, and I have a very fine person interviewing me, and would you give your name please?

	N:	Jazan Northrop and the year is 2009. D:	Thank you so much.

	N:	You’re welcome.



	D:	Alright, so we’re here for an oral interview.



	N:	I wanted to talk to you about Rosewood and what it means to you, and what it potentially represents.

	D:	Well Rosewood goes back to just understanding African American history. I’d like to tell you how I got involved with Rosewood. I’ve known about Rosewood since the late [19]70s when we came into Florida. Family member came to me and asked me if I would help with an investigation for the family and at that time I said no. First it shocked me that this went on in Florida and it was less than sixty miles from Gainesville. We went down; we looked at the area talked to a couple of people and people were very frightened still would not talk with us. So I said no, I can’t do that. I have little children [Laughter] and my husband did not want me to get involved. He said, no you gotta raise your kids and family and I think this is a little bit much right now. And I was working as a librarian at the, here, at the





University of Florida, so I backed out. And then later they went through and they found some other people. They were able to get the case done pro bono, and that was wonderful. So I stayed on the back burner and I helped all along with the case, but I would not come forward because I did not want to be one of the lead people. So therefore that all went through, the case went through, and the past of course, and the people received restitution. There were ten family members. And then from that they received two-point-one million, which was 150 thousand per family member. The key thing that’s still is in effect today is the Rosewood scholarships which is funded by the State of Florida and that came out of the claims here. So, Rosewood to me is something that we need to open up in many, many locations. We have the Ocoee massacre. We have one that happened right here in Newberry. Lynch Hammock, killed five people. You can go up to Lake City. There were six people killed there. We can go to Quincy.

There’s seven that were killed up in Quincy, in Quincy Florida. There are these types of atrocities all around us. And so they need to be opened up and people need to heal and understand that human beings were involved. These were good citizens and they lost everything that they had. Now for me, with Aunt Ann and other family members that kept asking me to do more, do more, I did get involved. After the claims had passed, I went through and we set up a Rosewood exhibit. I’m a Smithsonian Fellow, so I could curate and help them with the exhibit. So I designed the exhibit, along with family members telling me what they wanted included and how to include it for their satisfaction. So we received a grant from the Florida Humanities Council. That was for twenty-five thousand.





And we had to go back again for more funds. And at that time I was a member of the Matheson Board. Matheson historical center here in Gainesville.And we ran the grant through the Matheson as our 501c3. The funding came through with the exhibit. We built the exhibit. It has travelled all over Florida, all over the country.

And it is presently housed and the Bethune Cookman College, well, the Bethune Cookman University.

	N:	This is what I found on it. D:	Yes.

N:  Doctor Ortiz helped me find it because— D:  Great, Great! You’re good.

N:  Well he told me I had to give it back to him because it was actually from school archives. Because I was trying to find something in the library, but it, all I found was textbooks. I just wanted, you know, a pamphlet or a—

	D:	Yeah, you just wanted to know exactly what it was. And so we built this exhibit, and as I said, it’s housed at the Bethune Cookman. And then we have a traveling exhibit, which is now in Tallahassee at the Rollin house. It’s going to be there until October. And then at the end of October we pack it up and we ship it to Los Angeles, California. And it should be in the state of California for all of 2010.

	N:	And it’s just going, it’s gonna stay in California from exhibit to exhibit? D:	Yes, uh-huh.

	N:	And then is it going to hit any other states over there?



	D:	Right now, California, possibly Nevada. But those would be the only two states. But mainly it will stay in California. And the Delta Sigma Theta Sorority along with





family members who are all Deltas are doing the traveling of the exhibit for that particular year. But anyway, just saying a little bit about the Rosewood exhibit. It’s divided into four sections. And of course we had the 75th anniversary of the Rosewood who started January 1, 1923. And we have had another anniversary. 1994 is when the claims bill passed. And so ten years plus five, fifteen, it’s been fifteen years since the claims bill was passed and people have been able to receive funding from that. But so we have that listed as fifteen years. We have two survivors living. Mary Hall Daniels and she’s up at Hilliard, Florida. And Hilliard is near Jacksonville. It’s in on the way up to Georgia. It’s near Kingsland, Georgia. It’s in Nassau County. That could help you.

	N:	That helps a lot actually.



	D:	[Laughter] Okay. And so she’s in her early nineties and she’s doing quite well. She’s got a good mind. And then the second person is Annetta Robby Morton, and she’s in West Palm Beach, and she’s doing well too. She’s ninety-six now. And both of these ladies have very good minds. They were children. I think Robby was seven, and I believe Mary was three. Mary came out of the train, the famous train ride out of Rosewood. And Robby’s family got her out a different way up to Chiefland, Florida. But these women are yet alive and able to talk about it, and we want to keep Rosewood alive. And we have worked with several groups, justice groups to keep it alive, such as the Alliance for Truth and Racial Reconciliation at the University of Mississippi in Oxford Mississippi. We have worked with other International Center for Transition of Justice in New York and London, and that has helped us to get internationally known throughout the





world. And we dealt with other small groups, grassroots groups, to help them to figure out how to go about bringing this type of information to the public, and we’ve done pretty well. The latest one I believe was in Live Oak. We pulled that information out and shared it with the public. Of course the public is pretty much set to African Americans and a few people who are interested because they really don’t want this information out. It destroys the old guard that had been out for so long. But it’s the truth and this is what I’m all about. And I think our history has to come clean. If you tell the truth, there’s healing, and that’s the key thing. Healing takes a long time. If you got a wound, it depends on the size of it. It may take three weeks, it may take a year. Depends on how deep that wound is. And if it broke along the way, it, you know—so we have to start the healing process, and the only way to do it is to tell these stories. Let it be factual, don’t give myth. And then from the myth that has been out here, change it. Put the fact there and let the people have it. And then from that we get a healing process.

	N:	Well I have a leading question that I was writing while you were talking, and it’s— I’m a Floridian but I wasn’t raised down here, but I think it’s very odd that other Floridians don’t realize Florida history at all. They consider Florida a moderate state when it came to race relations, were I was up school in Chicago when I learned how bad Florida actually was, but I came back to Florida, nothing. As a child growing up in the public school system in Florida, I didn’t receive any actual real Florida history. Everything I was spoon fed was trying to protect me or trying to hide to hide truth, or however you’d like to put it. Why do you feel that is? Why do you feel that the children aren’t actually educated on the history?





	D:	Well, beginning, the fact that I just came in last night from the African American Task Force meeting in Tallahassee. We’ve been there since Sunday. And I don’t know if you’re aware, but the NAACP is suing the state of Florida because they have not included African American history in our textbooks, in our teaching materials, in our curriculum. And they had the first court meetings about two weeks ago, and some of the people on the task force, those that were attorneys on our task force talked about it. The state wants to close us down and not let it be known. It’s not really hit the—

	N:	I haven’t heard of anything.



	D:	Of course you’re not gonna hear about it because this is hidden history and this is the program of Florida, from the very beginning. They have promoted Florida as a tourist state, as the state to come and have fun and enjoy yourself, but the true history, not only African American history, but the Indian history, the Cubans the Haitians, all the cultures that are here has not ever been told, and it’s done that way to give the appearance of a state where you can come have fun and enjoy, and bathe in the sun, and the people here are just so pure and clean, and that’s not the case. Once you get into the history you see that there’s a lot of change, and a lot of it has been miswritten, and that’s one of the things that the NAACP is bringing out, the miswriting of the history and changing information from one situation to another situation to make it appealable to others. And so if this goes through, well, I don’t know if it is, I’m pretty sure it will, but as we talked about it yes, just yesterday, we want it to come forth as a court case so we can open it up to the world. The state of Florida is trying to buy it out and pay the





NAACP right now to close it, and be still with it and act as if it did not occur. So this going on right now, there are a lot of things going on—

N:   Is that the Governor of the state or is that, like, the education board?



D:  Ah, it’s the Governor. They have met in Tallahassee with the legislators. So it’s serious business. The Governor is well aware of what’s going on. He’s right on top of it. He’s right there.

N:   No comment on the Governor.



	D:	[Laughter] But yes, he’s very aware of it. And of course he brought up a couple of things that he felt that could be helped, dealt with. The Department of Education right now is running around changing our curriculum and changing our standards. And see it’s all the books with the state of Florida, that African American history be taught. And a lot of the people in the state legislature and others didn’t know that, so when the NAACP brought that up before them, they had to back of a little bit. So now they are regrouping, and hopefully in another week or two they’ll be meeting again and our attorneys are really on the case because know that an injustice has really been done here in this state. A lot of states, not just one.

	N:	I was really surprised because, I don’t know if it’s because I also went through, you know, a much better school up north, because when I came back down to Florida I was several years ahead when I moved back down, but I just thought it was just a bad school system in the first place.

D:  Well, you know we were forty-nine out of the fifty at one time. Then we moved up two spaces [Laughter] to 47. So we’re still near the bottom of the barrel when you look at total education for a student in the state of Florida. The number of





students that receive GED’s is one of the highest in the country. Mississippi and a few other states may give out more, and then a lot of them are getting certificates for going to school and completing so many days, which isn’t worth two pennies when you go out there to find a job. And so it is truly in poor condition. It’s not just African Americans; it is the school system itself.

	N:	Not arguing at all. A couple years ago I had an internship at Wesley Chapel, Florida. And I actually got very emotional and upset because I was teaching students who needed new books, who needed new desks, et cetera, et cetera. And then one day I wanted in and every classroom had a brand new flag that was twice the size of the old one. They had spent something ridiculous, like, eighty percent of the budget for that year on new flags for each classroom.

	D:	Well that came from the legislators. That was mandated. Every classroom has to have a flag. I work at Santa Fe. They came bringing those poles in there, put those little flags up all over the place and the students were upset about it there as well. They said, well this money could have been spent so much better, to help us with our needs, you know. But just help with bus passes, help with books. Let’s do something that’s gonna be remembered other than a flag hanging up here. And the kids do everything to the flag, and it’s a shame to say, you know.

I’ve seen it taken down, three or four times. I’ve put it back myself. It was lying on the floor; I put it back up on the rack. You know, it should be there.

	N:	I consider myself a patriotic individual. I understand where they would be upset by that action. If you’re sitting there and you don’t have the proper supplies, if you’re in an area I had students who didn’t get a good meal in the morning. I had





to talk to their parents to make sure that they came to school early so they would get free breakfast. You know, or I had kids that would come in and just fall asleep instantly because they’re, you know, they were either malnourished or they had spent, they had been up all night, or whatever, and things that could have actually been helpful weren’t even though of.

	D:	This is the cosmetics of Florida. At our conference this week in Tallahassee we had several teachers there. Ninety percent of the students were on free or reduced lunch. Ninety percent of the student body! Can you imagine that?

	N:	They should just let the whole school have free lunch. They should just stop doing the paper work.

	D:	Yes. Yes. And it’s all about the stresses of the students and how the students are not learning because of, again, the malnourishment and proper clothing a lot of abuse. We talked about those issues, and they had people there from the Department of Education, and it was, like—and they just, they just slide right along. “Well, you know, you can send us an email to that effect and we’ll talk about it later.” That was basically the attitude. But issues as to what can we do about it today and soon, especially with this stimulus money coming in here, they try to ignore, did not deal with it. And they gave us an additional modest of money to give some programs within the state of Florida to communities. So we would go out and work with the communities, but it’s such a small amount of money.

	N:	So they wanted to be a community crew rather, or a community organization rather than a government organization?





	D:	Yes.



	N:	Which should be more effective.



	D:	Well, that’s what they claimed. Oh yeah. But who’s gonna go out there and do it.



That’s just a smoke screen. They’re not gonna do anything.



	N:	I can’t imagine them volunteering for it.



	D:	No. No. They’re very comfortable where they are. [Laughter]



	N:	Okay. Do you have any past down family stories that you’d like to share or one of the popular questions from my peers is, ah, when have you ever, was there a first time or a first memory where you felt, like, that someone was being prejudiced against you, because in our readings we found that a lot of African American parents really tried to shelter their kids from the hate or mistreatment, if you will, that they had always experienced.

	D:	That’s true. I can start in one case; my father was a railroad worker. He worked on the train and in the station. He was a station porter and train porter, and then he trained men to work on the railroad. My family goes way back, and his father, his uncle, all of them worked the railroad. Going back to his uncle, who was a principal of a school. Gave up his principal ship to work on the railroad to make the money and buy material, so his wife could go back and work in the schools, and then started the school, in the area of Johnston County of North Carolina.

Now that was uncle Matthew Lewis, which was my daddy’s brother’s that was my daddy’s uncle, really would have been my great uncle. But coming up to my father who worked the railroad. My father did not allow us to go south. I was raised in North Carolina. I never came south until I was an adult, past North





Carolina. We got a pass every summer, two weeks we could ride the train. And we would go to Philadelphia, we would go to New York went out to Chicago, and we did go to Detroit. We went up into Canada. He always made sure we went north, and he wanted my mother to keep us above the Mason-Dixon line because once you got past the Mason-Dixon line, we could sit anywhere we wanted to on the train and then we could ride the double-decker train cause we had cousins who passed for White and they were conductors of trains on the train so we knew each other, and we knew, you know, the situation, but we never gave away their situation, or how they got there either. And they would always make sure we got the best on the train. They made sure we got the best fruits, the best foods, because we could not go to the dining hall. They had to bring a cart through the train and then we could buy food of the cart and eat it. And that’s how we ate. And that was in the [19]50’s and [19]60’s, late [19]50’s.

	N:	I’m a little confused. How—I, I can’t tell people’s nationality when I look at them, a lot of mixed people. I have a lot of mixed friends. My best friend in high school, I thought he was Black for four years, and he was Puerto Rican. I honestly have an issue telling, so—was there—

	D:	You could easily tell. I mean, you know, look at my skin color—and then you know, you know I’m Black. But when we got pass that Mason-Dixon line and our relatives that we knew pass for White, now, they would come south at certain times of the year and they usually would bring a lot of items for us: stockings that would women couldn’t buy ordinarily in the store, hats, they would bring undergarments cause they all the sizes of the people and they would buy them





and bring them to us so that the ladies would have nice foundation garments to wear. And they would bring them in boxes or ship them, at, at a periodic time. And they would go in and buy them in New York or when they went to Canada up in Buffalo wherever and ship them down to us. And they would come maybe about once a year, and they usually, I didn’t understand this, they would come in the evenings, and then they’d leave the next day. You know, they wouldn’t hang around. And they would come to see the family and go back north and I didn’t understand it at that time. This is [19]50’s and [19]60’s now. And of course we had a few of them. Now Roosevelt, when he got older he was a conductor on a train too and he lived in New York and, like I said, passed for White all the time. [Laughter] When he retired, he did come down and stayed maybe a couple days. But prior to that we only saw them periodically, and we would see them when we got on the train, ‘cause Daddy made sure that they knew we were coming north and we could only nod at them or just whatever. And then when they get in a corner, they would be hugging my momma and—. [Laughter] But we didn’t know, you know, what the situation was. So I experienced that and even, like I said, the late [19]50’s and so forth. And I remember sitting at the back of the bus. My mother took me to a meeting and when we got on the bus we had to go to the back of the bus. We could not sit at the front of the bus. And I remember moving, you know, all the way to the back, and seeing the, the White people in the front, and the back in the, and the Blacks in the back. So I remember that as a child.

So, yeah, I can speak to some of the—[Laughter]—segregated situations, but mainly the train because I remember that and once we got to Washington D.C.





we had to segregate. Maybe it was before D.C., left Philadelphia, coming south. But anyway, there was a certain portion of time that we had to segregate. And then, when we get up past New York my cousin would take us in the double- decker trains so we could go up and sit high and we got a chance to see and enjoy, you know, a lot of things that wouldn’t have had. My mother would buy— my mother taught school; she brought materials back every year for the school system, because they couldn’t afford to buy them at our predominantly Black schools. All my uncles and uncles got their degrees above the Mason-Dixon Line because teachers could not get their Masters degrees in the south. My aunt graduated from New York University in the [19]40’s and that was unheard of, but Black people had to go there in order to get an education. That’s in New York.

And she worked in Tarrytown. They’d go up and work in Tarrytown and other areas up north. And they would get as much knowledge and as much as they could get and bring it bring it back to the south and use it with our young people. My aunt, her husband taught at Cheney. Cheney was the, is the oldest Black college in Cheney, Pennsylvania. And his name was Jackson. And he would come south in the summer and teach at Bethune Cookman College, with, you know, in Daytona Beach. And she would tell the story, my aunt Gladys would tell the story of them getting ready to come south. We had Black truckers. Very few Black men Drove trucks. The Nixon brothers in Smithfield, North Carolina owned their own trucking company. These were brothers, and they all had trucks. They would contact the Nixon brothers, maybe about three months before time to come south to teach at Bethune Cookman College in the summer. And as it got





closer to the time, the Nixon brothers would send them a letter, say two weeks from now I’ll be coming through New Jersey, be ready to come. Well, my aunt and her husband, they would have their cars ready. And they Drove Cadillacs, they Drove big cars. They couldn’t give a little car south, because they came in convoy with the trucks. They had a truck in the front [inaudible] and one on down the back. And they would come to Florida. [Crying] She told about the hate— and—.

	N:	Do you want to take a break? D:	No.

	N:	Take a break. [Break in recording] And we’re going.



	D:	Okay. Now back on. Okay. My aunt would tell the story of them coming to Florida. So when the Nixon Brothers would come through, they would call them, you now, on those rotary phones, and they would have the car packed and everything. And sometimes it would be five or six professors or teachers who were coming south and they used the truckers to protect them. And they’d have to have a decent car so the car could keep up, cause trucks were pretty fast, you know, and then they would come to Bethune Cookman, some would go to Everett Waters to various Black schools in Florida. Some worked at A&M. That’s in Tallahassee. And they would get an escort there, to the south. And then when they got—

	N:	The [inaudible], the brothers would?



	D:	Yeah. Well those truckers, they, they would line those truck loads up so that they could make sure they got to Florida safely bringing whatever merchandize they





had to bring south. And, the teachers would teach here for the summer, and then at the end of the summer, they would escort back to New Jersey, or Pennsylvania, or wherever they had to go. And then that way a lot of the students down here were able to get education and learn about situations that would not know otherwise because they were bringing in teachers from the north to teach the students in the summer school programs. Also, some of those teachers, they even went to the fields and worked with the people in tobacco, cotton, whatever was going on down here in the south. My aunt knew Zora Neale Hurston very well.

	N:	Can you repeat that name?



	D:	My aunt, her name was Gladys Frasier Jackson. She knew Zora very well. And they knew a lot of Black prominent people. They would go over to Florida, I mean to Jacksonville, to America’s beach. They knew the Lewis’s, and so, I mean there was a connection among the educated African Americans to know each other from the north to the south and share information through the schools. They went to Tuskegee, yeah, I mean all of those connections were there for them, and they used them to help educate our people. And our students were pushing to learn. I know during the time that my mother taught and her mother taught before her.

My grandmother taught and was a missionary. My mother, like my grandmother, was a missionary. Her name was Nelly Grace Hartway, and she did not go to Africa because they said she was too old at that time. They were taking people like eighteen and nineteen. And at that time my grandmother, they did not know her exact age but they thought she was about twenty-eight, twenty-seven,





something along there. And they felt that she would not be able to, to stay, and, and do as much as others so she taught in Johnston County. So I go back one two three, four easily, four generations very easily of teachers that I can talk about, really five, all the way up to about now. So education has always been in my family. And in my family they have done well in the sense of being able to be leaders in the community. And that’s hard to say for so many of my friends. They didn’t have that. My people were either teachers or principals of schools or they had their own land. My great grandfather had what they called a four horse farm. If you have a four horse farm that meant that you ran about 200 acres.

	N:	Wow.



	D:	50 acres per horse. N:	Okay.

	D:	And you know, they were able to do for themselves. So, I’ve always been around that and to see these injustices that I known about and what’s going on now, I can’t help but react, because I know the history of African Americans. I think so many of us don’t know our history, so we don’t know our history, we don’t know how to accept it or how to respond to it. So it makes a difference.

	N:	I had a question. I just want to say—



	D:	But anyway, yeah, they, they did that, I’m, I’m going back to my Aunt Gladys’ again. And that was very helpful to, you know, helping students learn how to function in the south. On my mother’s side there were two brothers both were college educated. My uncle is still living in Chester, Pennsylvania. And he was in charge of the housing authority there, Jerry Hartley. And he worked a lot to help





people get housing. His wife was a nurse, Aunt Ruth. On my mother’s side also, my Uncle Mack was in the school system. His wife was a teacher. And then my mother, and then my father was a farmer. My father didn’t teach other than he taught cooking. In fact, he was one of the first African Americans in our area to go to Montreal, Canada. When he came back and told it, people though he was lying, ‘cause he cooked for Thomas Restaurant in Washington D.C. It’s no longer. Thomas had branches in New York and Washington D.C. They had a branch in Montreal, Canada, so they sent my father there to cook and that’s how he got to go to Montreal. And he bought all the materials that he could get his hands on back, you know, to help us to understand what it looked like and the people speaking French. He could speak some French. He could play piano enough. He could do whatever he needed to do. So, [clears throat] that opened the door for us to even know about Canada. And so when we got our passes every year for the two weeks, sometimes we would go into Canada, just to say we went to Winsor. Up a little further, we went as far as Toronto one year on the train. And that was unheard of for Blacks in the [19]50’s and early [19]60’s, so we would bring that knowledge back, and we would have school programs and film programs in the community in the church that we shared. And not only were we doing that, other families were doing the same thing and so that’s how we learned in the communities what was going on. The military guys that had served in World War One and the Korean War in the early [19]50’s and so forth, they would come back and we would sit down and talk about it. And that’s how we learned about the world. We weren’t isolated in one little tiny spot, plus my father





ran a farm. When he was gone Rufus ran the farm. Rufus actually ran our farm for us, and we, my father would not allow us to stay out of school. We had to go to school every day. But he had people that worked the farm, you know, were, we’d go out and work with them on Saturdays and help with the tobacco and things like that. But we always maintained a farm; even have one today, even though my parents are not able to operate it. My father’s deceased. But we still got that farm. And he always told us to hold the land because that’s your value. Keep the land.

	N:	I was going to say that education sounded very important and— D:	Oh, it is.

	N:	I wanted to know it from—if it was just from your family, their viewpoint on education, cause I talked to other people who weren’t fortunate enough to be able to go to school, and I wanted to know if it was, like your parents, you had to be educated, you had to go to college, you had excel yourself. Was it a family, or was it personal drive, or—

	D:	It probably was a part of both. But family, because back then we were little kids, we had to learn to read. And you had to learn to read and not tell others that you knew how to read, because you’d get in trouble. So, a lot of things were done quietly and discretely, to keep you safe, because if certain things were known, you could get into trouble, so, especially with the young men, so a lot was done quietly. Education was always there and then we have always had the drive to want to achieve. It was just born and bred, you had to do that.





	N:	I learned a lot from reading the Jim Crowe book, and one example that comes to mind, like you said, you had to pretend not to read. This very well educated gentleman, I don’t remember his name, an African American fellow, him and one of his friends got in trouble with the police and his immediate reaction was to act like the cartoon—

		D:		



	N:	Mmhm. He acted very much so out of character. He acted ignorant. He didn’t speak the way he normally will speak. And I understand that’s how it was, but for my generation, it’s very confusing.

	D:	Well you gotta know when and when not to. You just savvy to that. We were laughing about this fellow. We were in Tuskegee, and he went over to talk to some senior citizens, and his whole demeanor changed, his whole language, expressions changed, to, to speak to those ladies as he, as they would understand him. Then when he came back over to talk to us he went back to his, his college professor talk. Everybody does it, he just, you just know when and when not to and especially for Black men. This has been a trying time in Florida. I raised three young men, and it’s been hard. It’s not easy. Five guys were just coming home tending to their business. They got pulled by the police and pulled out of the car and everything, not bothering a soul. I have a case right now that I don’t think I’m going to go on, but I talked to the family, they live over in Jacksonville. Their son was killed in [19]98 between Fernandina Beach and Jacksonville. He was sitting at the back seat of the car and when the police would put those lights on the guys, the fellow that was driving the car sped up





instead of stopping, and they put forty bullets in the back of this young man. He was sitting in the back seat. His parents have come to me and asked me if I would work with them on a case because they’re gonna bring that case back up in Florida. The policemen did not get any time. It was considered, they were doing their duty. They were doing their duty. And the father, now we just met about two weeks ago on that case. There are so many cases in Florida that need to be dealt with. And the father now has the money and I think he’s got the right attorneys. So after a while, we will hear about that case. It needs to be brought up. The kid was seventeen years old. The guy who was driving the car, he was nervous, he, he got scared when they dropped those lights on him, then he was speeding. He didn’t deny that. But they put forty bullets in the kid sitting in the back seat of the car; that was just uncalled for.

	N:	What was their explanation for it besides, we were doing our job? D:	None.

	N:	He wasn’t particularly resisting arrest, he couldn’t—



	D:	But he was a part of the car and the car had about 67 bullets that they pulled out. Now, you got two policemen sitting there with guns shooting. You gonna run out of bullets, right? So how many, how many guns did they use? There are a lot of issues that are going to come up.

	N:	I as actually gonna ask what kind of guns they would have because I was thinking—

	D:	Thank you!



	N:	—eight shots even if—





	D:	And that’s right, in a round.



	N:	Even if they had extra clips, I mean— D:	Thank you.

	N:	That means this chase or action would have taken place, you know, for an hour or so then—no I’m saying if they had hand guns and they shooting one at a time, and

	D:	Yeah, yeah, yeah. A lot of questions we have in this case, and it’s gonna come back up. And those are the kinds of things that I end up getting involved in, because they’ll know I’ll, I’ll dig in the case for a long time and we’ll find some other things. Other case that I’m involved in right now is the White House boys, which you’re familiar with probably, that’s in Marianna, Florida. White house boys is called a Dozier School. In the [19]30’s and [19]40’s and so forth kids who were homeless kids who got into trouble with the law, were sent to the Dozier School for Reform. And at the Dozier School, these boys were treated very badly. They had a building known as the White House, and the White House is where they would carry these kids at night and beat them. And there is blood spatter still on the walls from some of the kids that were killed in that place. The White House boys are White men who went there. They had a separate area from Blacks and Whites as we would know in the [19]40’s and [19]50’s even in the [19]20’s, because it started in 1905, and they claimed to close in 1981, and they were still killing kids up there in the [19]60’s. These five White men had gotten together and they’re gonna bring this case forward in Florida. They have hired attorneys. They’re down in Saint Petersburg, Florida right now. And they have identified





roughly eighty White men that were there, that were yet living. And the African Americans, we have about five to eight that we have identified. There is a graveyard back of the White House in Marianna, and there are about twenty bodies in there, and they claim that these were White boys that died. The Black grave is across over the field and is now into another building, about 200. This is right here in Florida.

	N:	What were the numbers?



	D:	About 200 White, I mean 200 Blacks in the grave, just a block or two away from the White House. Around twenty, they say, maybe twenty to thirty in the White graveyard. These White men, just click Whitehouseboys.com and go online. You can see all you want to see. Whitehouseboys.com. This needs to come forward and these men have called. I, I worked with Charles and several of the other guys who are working on this case. My goal is to find the African American men. Now they had a reunion. There was a guy that was in Tampa, they connected him to one in Atlanta, and when those two men met about three months ago, they were brothers. They didn’t know each other was still living. They thought both were killed up there at the Dozier House. And Charlie Crist, our Governor, went up there in October of last year and put a monument, you know, commemorating what happened. They made the mistake of sending CNN up there, CNN news went, and they have opened this thing up wide. CNN put it on TV and it went in to newspapers in locations were its out to the public. Well the state of Florida again is pushing it back because they don’t want anybody to know about it. Well these five men, they’re very wealthy White men. They said





they’d give it all they have to bring that case to the front so that people will know how many people, young men, were killed. They were sexually assaulted they worked them twenty-four-seven, they had them loading ships, they had them doing all types of work up there, and it was all in the name of goodness. It’s in the State of Florida, and we’re digging with some deep pockets now. When you say deep pockets, I mean people with some heavy money who got a lot of wealth through those young men. And it’s, it’s a nasty situation, but it’s going on right now, and that’s another case that I’m, you know—

	N:	Sounds more like a concentration camp than anything else.



	D:	Exactly what it was. Exactly what it was. And the people in Marianna won’t talk about it. We’ve been up there; they’ve been up there—

	N:	Where is Marianna?



	D:	That’s up in the panhandle, up past Tallahassee, off I-10, in that area. And they won’t talk about this. They’re scared to death because they’re going to bring the case out. And they are interviewing people as soon as they can find someone. I interviewed a girl. Her brother was up there. And she told about how crazy he was when he came back. I mean physically and mentally crazy because of how he was treated. Two more people that Archer gonna be interviewing, they—their family members went missing. And then they, we found they were at least sent there. A lot of the judges sent kids there, and they used them. They were sex machines, they were working machines, anything that you wanted made, they did it. And these five men are working with all their might right now to bring this case to the front. There are no African Americans in those five, but we are working





with the African American population to bring out that portion of what happened in there.

	N:	Why is it so difficult to bring these atrocities to the public eye, because in my thoughts just some of the things that you told to me I, my though process is that if you sat down and basically told CNN, any major news organization, they would want to do a story on it. They would want to—

	D:	They did. They did. But others have been shut off. You’re dealing with deep pockets. Deep pockets mean that I have control. I can contact CBS, it’s dead. I can contact the Wall Street Journal, it’s dead. That’s what they call deep pockets. You’re not dealing with people that do not have power. You’re dealing with some judges, you’re dealing with physicians, you’re dealing with lawyers, you’re dealing with deep generations of people who’ve had and have dealt with situations that have not been good. And they’re trying to close the door. And those are the kinds of things that I get involved in because I see it’s necessary and it needs to come forward. It’s, it’s, it’s terrible. And I know I can’t do much as an individual but I’ll do my part. Check it out and call me when you get to look at it on the Internet.

	N:	I’m definitely going to. D	Mmhm.

	N:	Unfortunately, I’m horribly busy with Doctor Ortiz’s work till Sunday, but I will get back in contact with you.

	D:	And also, I won’t be able to come Tuesday to your—



	N:	To his get together. No problem. I just wanted to make sure you got an invite.





	D:	I thank you for the invitation. I really appreciate it. Sunday I leave out for the UNESCO conference, and I’ll be gone for a week.

	N:	And what are you going to be doing there?



	D:		They’re meeting in Alabama this year, UNESCO is dealing with the world, and we have people that will be coming from all over the world. We take topics. This year it’s civil rights. So it’s civil rights is our topic, that’s why we’re meeting in Birmingham, I mean in Montgomery, Alabama, but we will be going to Birmingham and looking at civil rights in the south: the [19]60’s, [19]40’s and so forth, that time span. The group has been to England dealing with slavery.

We’ve been to Ireland. About four years from now, they will be going to Africa. This is a group of educators, and they’re funded by people like Duke, our company for the US, and we look at issues and try to come up with new materials to help teachers. So we will have certain teachers that will come from certain districts and they will be exposed to the new learnings, new materials, new ways of getting across to students. And it lasts for a whole week. Last year we did New Orleans cause for the last couple, three years they wanted to have it in the United States, and it was time to do Katrina, and deal with New Orleans, so it’s we did. And we got a chance to talk with the Black Indians. See, you all don’t deal with all of that.

	N:	Didn’t know—



	D:	Didn’t know there were any around? N:	No I didn’t.





	D:	Same thing with Rosewood. If it had not been for those Indians out there in those woods, a lot of folks wouldn’t have made it. But it wasn’t even expressed in the movie. But it was expressed when they were doing their research. Our best supporters were the Indians. And the Indians need to come forward. But every time they try to bring them forth, there’s another group pushing them back. So the truth needs to come out, it just needs to come out. And the Indians were wonderful. I mean they provided food for the people, they’ve set decoys up in those woods, and if they hadn’t done that, I mean, a lot of those Blacks wouldn’t have made it. And the Blacks will tell you that when you sit down and talk with them, but it’s all edited out when it comes to the public. They won’t share it. And these five men that we’re talking about, they’re so wealthy they’re working on this case, they talked about the Indians too, because there were Indians that were put in those camps up there, and the types of work that they could do, they couldn’t do because there’s certain things they don’t do well. But all that’s discussed, so, so far as the state of Florida is concerned, there few names for Indian, only a few Indians are mentioned, but the Indians have paid a major major role in the state of survival. They work in the fields too. You only hear Mexicans. Indians are there too.

	N:	Is there anything that you feel we potentially missed or anything you want to reiterate?

	D:	Well, I’m married.



	N:	Well, we got ten minutes so I just wanted to make sure we didn’t miss anything.





	D:	[Laughter] No, other than that I worked at the University of Florida for six years, and supposedly had gotten my tenure as the first Black librarian but I never got it, so that’s another issue. And I probably need to see the President of the college about that, of the University. I worked there from [19]77 to [19]83. I was the first Black librarian they hired. We brought in two other Blacks after I came in. I earned my tenure. I wrote, and I did all the things, they voted me in for tenure. I got the vote from the from my staff, and from, you know, from all that were involved, the letter was written by the department chair, who I think Ann Adlarson, it could have been Peter Walenczek, I don’t remember. And I never got my tenure. So that’s an issue that I would love to have cleared up, because I deserved it, and I earned it. I’m not asking anybody to give me anything. [Laughter] I earned that tenure. And so that’s something that it, we could work on that case, get that cleared, fine. I’m always involved with other people, but I need to see about myself as well. [Laughter]

	N:	On that issue, couldn’t you just speak with the, whoever is in charge of the library?

	D:	Well I’ve been up there. They act like they didn’t know what had happened and were things were, so yeah, we will, we will get back on that. I just hadn’t taken the time because I feel that the Florida issues that I’m involved with and UNESCO issues are much more important.

	N:	Too much on the plate.



	D:	Yes, too much on the plate right now. I think those are the most important things.



My issue, I’ll get it done in time. I’ll get it done in time. But I enjoy working with





people. I think that’s one of my strengths and I have a research librarian, not just a regular librarian. I went to the University of Michigan I have a regular library degree and then I also have a archivist research degree, which means that when I first came out of Michigan I worked at the, worked for the National Archive in Library of Congress. Thus became Smithsonian Fellow because I really wasn’t tied in that much to what local stuff is. So I realized and I think I know how to do the chain of command to get to where I need to get to get things done, so that’s what I enjoy doing. And so, I’m not a person that sleeps ten hours a day at all like that, probably sleep six or seven, but I have five or six projects. I’ve done the Dudley project here in Florida. The row of African Americans at the Dudley Farm, which is outside of Gainesville. And none of that material yet have I seen before the public. And we spent almost two years in a group of three working on that the team to gather information on the role of African Americans at the Dudley Farm, which was a plantation, which they don’t want to acknowledge. And I tell the truth, so that’s probably why they haven’t acknowledged it, and they probably have the knowledge that different people that we talked about that were so prominent out there, cause we interviewed the family members and went back in history, and gave them, I think, a very, very good report.

	N:	Well if you show them the plantation then they have to essentially admit it, because Florida was considered a moderate state because we have lesser plantations than other southern states, but if you point out, this was actually a plantation, or a turpentine industry, or anything like that, it’s essentially the same thing but they don’t call it a plantation. That’s why Florida is a moderate state.





	D:	We understand that. Florida was one of the moderates. N:	We can agree.

	D:	We know. That’s what I’m saying. That’s why our history has been so distorted. And it’s been distorted everywhere. Not just in Florida. But more so here in the sense of destroying the lives of people. There has been so much destruction here, and just talking to people, they tell me say, hey would you do this for me, would you— Also I can’t take on any more stress to the bags now. I’m doing two other projects. We’re doing Cerno plantations, which is right here, has several Blacks out there on that plantation, and when looking at the Gordon plantation, which was opened near Waldo. And it’s not even, you said it, anywhere. We found that in historical documents. We’re trying to bring it up because Gordon plantation had a lot of African Americans on it. It’s not even mentioned in the History books, anywhere. So that’s the kinds of things I like to do. I like to dig back and find things, and see if we can bring it forth and make a way for people to know their history, the true history. I’m not trying to gloss over anything. I know it’s a hurting situation, you know, oh that was my daddy, that’s why my momma wouldn’t tell me who my father was. You know, I get those added too. We understand. It hurts. These people have to go through a lot. But if we can get that out, they get back to the healing, and let them understand that there’s life beyond that. It brings joy to people. And then they start understanding why things were the way they were. The truth always hurt, but when it finishes the healing, it’s much better. And truth shouldn’t hurt if you accept it right. It should bring joy.





	N:	Okay, well, I’m pretty sure we should be at the stopping point. Thank you very much. This was Mrs. Sherry Dupree and Jazan Northrop.

[End of Interview]





	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019