AAHP 330; Banks and Banks; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 330 Mary and Van Banks African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Marna Weston on May 17, 2014 1 hour, 3 minutes | 39 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 330

Interviewees: Mary Banks and Van Banks Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date: May 17, 2014



	W:	This is Marna Weston with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program in Macedonia Missionary Baptist Church of Melbourne, Florida, in our oral history collaboration. The date is the 16th of May?

	VB:	17th.



	W:	Thank you, sir. The 17th of May, 2014. And we are in the Family Center at Macedonia Missionary Baptist Church. I’m here with the Banks, who are doing a joint interview. Thank you all very much for being willing to talk with me today.

	MB:	Our pleasure.



	W:	If you would please, one at a time, first state and spell, fully, your names at birth? MB:	Mary—at birth?

	W:	Yes, ma’am, please.



	MB:	At birth it was Elizabeth, E-L-I-Z-A-B-E-T-H. Louise, L-O-U-I-S-E. Williams, W-I- L-L-I-A-M-S. After marriage, it was changed to Mary Elizabeth.

	W:	And where were you born?



	MB:	In Washington, Wilkes County, Georgia. W:	Okay. And when were you born?

	MB:	March 13th, 1943.



	W:	And who are your mother and father?



	MB:	My mother—want her maiden name or married name? W:	Whichever you—

	MB:	Okay. Her name was Lora, L-O-R-A, Mae Harper Williams. W:	Okay. Do you know when and where she was born?





	MB:	She was born in Washington, Wilkes County, Georgia. W:	Do you know her date of birth?

	MB:	Her date of birth was April 24th, 1916. W:	And how about your dad?

	MB:	My dad, his first name is Fred, F-R-E-D, Emmett Williams. He was born in March 27th, 1919. And he was born in Washington, Wilkes County, Georgia.

	W:	Got a lot of March. I was born in March as well. MB:	Oh.

	W:	Well, I’d like to come back and talk about your parents in a moment, but I’m going to come to your husband and ask him that same information. Would you please state and spell your full name at birth please, sir?

	VB:	My name is Van Warren Banks. First name’s spelled V-A-N. Middle name Warren, W-A-R-R-E-N. Last name Banks, B-A-N-K-S.

	W:	And where were you born?



	VB:	I was born in Leon County, Florida. W:	Okay.

	VB:	Most time, you just refer to it as Tallahassee. But I was born in the rural areas, not inside the city.

	W:	Okay.



	VB:	My mother gave birth to me by way of a midwife. It was kind of common then. I think the same lady—I don’t remember her name—probably birthed just about all of the kids in my area during that era.

	W:	Did you state your date of birth?





	VB:	My date of birth is December 4th, 1942.



	W:	Okay. When you talk about an outlying area of Leon County, was it north?



Western? Eastern?



	VB:	It’s north. Northern Leon County. Out near an area they call Bradfordville.



Bradfordville still exists. And the road that my mother’s house was on was called Bannerman Road. It’s a road that connects Meridian Road and Thomasville Highway. So that will give you some idea where this area is. Generally that area was called Blockers.

	W:	Okay. Your parents, who were they?



	VB:	My father, his name is Harry Emido Banks.



	W:	You’re going to have to spell that middle part! [Laughter].



	VB:	H-A-R-R-Y. Emido, E-M-I-D-O. Last name Banks, B-A-N-K-S. I don’t know a whole lot about him, but he was born over in Gadsden County, Quincy. There are still relatives there. We never got to know too much about them, because he kind of left us when we were real young.

	W:	Okay, so you don’t know his—?



	VB:	I’m bumping up into family once in a while now. So, we kind of connect by talking with people. So, there are a few people that we’ve come to know. In fact, there’s a cousin near Titusville we came to know a few years ago. One in Fort Lauderdale we recently met about a year ago, I guess now. So, we picking up bits and pieces. My mother, she was born in Leon County, basically in the general area where I was born. This a huge family, it’s the Gaines Family. And there are Gaineses all over this place. There’s some right here in the church.





Throughout Florida—just basically everywhere. Generally, they have a family reunion every two years and they move it around, different places in the country because it’s so large. And I can just share with you that that side of the family has been putting together a family history. It’s a document that covers back to about the 1850s. Somewhere in there. So there is a book that that side of the family is putting together, so there’s quite a bit we can read about that family— that side of the family.

	W:	Right. What is your mother’s date of birth?



	VB:	September 27th, 1919. So, she’s still with us. She’s ninety-four now.



	W:	That’s wonderful. That’s a blessing. Is her mind clear as well? I mean, can she answer questions, do an interview like this?

	VB:	Yeah. I mean, she’s ninety-four, so she moves slower, but her mind’s clear.



She’s as active as she can be at this time in her life. She enjoys going to church. She was a member of Macedonia here for a long time before she moved back to Tallahassee, which is her hometown, where she now resides.

W:   That’s terrific. Do you get to see each other often?



VB:  Two, three times a year. As often as we can get up there.



	W:	Well, thank you. Before I come back and ask you about the midwife—since we’re on your mother, if you don’t mind, I’m going to explore there for a second. Who were her parents, sir?

VB:  Her dad’s name was Frank Gaines. Her mother was Johnnie Spencer, J-O-H-N- N-I-E Spencer. She was a Spencer. I don’t have a whole lot about the Spencers, but they were related to the Bakers, off of that side of the family. She had two





brothers on her uncle—my mother’s uncles on her mother’s side, there were two of them.

	W:	Do you know their names?



	VB:	And her sister. Sister was named Lula Spencer and her brother was named Eddie Spencer, and the other brother was—[inaudible 6:59].

	W:	Eddie?



	VB:	Nah, that’s not him, it’s the other one. They used to fight all the time. W:	You know, like brothers do. [Laughter]

	VB:	Like brothers do: fight. [Laughter] W:	I got two younger brothers.

	VB:	It might come to me; I’ll mention the name. And on her father’s side, there were, with my mother—her siblings—there were actually five of them total.

	W:	Do you recall their names?



	VB:	Yeah. Daisy was the oldest. And then there was—my mother’s, who’s still with us. Frank Gaines Jr, and Willie Gaines. Now all of them are deceased now, except her.

	W:	Except your mother? VB:	Yeah.

	W:	Is there anything else significant or meaningful you can recall about your parents or older relatives as a way of just kind of defining your family? Some anecdotal, or first-time, or notable things?

	VB:	On my mother’s mother’s side, my grandmother, they—we never got all of the facts together, but they got to be landowners. Over a hundred and ten acres of





property in Leon County. I’ve never known my grandmother to work anywhere. She did a little farming here and there. My great-aunt—and I think my grandmother as well—they taught some school. Of course, at that time you didn’t have to have a college degree, necessarily. You just had to be able to teach. So, they taught in the area and they did, as I say, a bit of farming. My great uncle, Eddie, he was a minister. I didn’t mention my own siblings. There are five of us. I’m the oldest. My next oldest—he’s deceased—his name was Harry Emido, Jr. And then the other two sisters are Lula Franklin Banks and then Eva. She’s now a Richardson, Eva Mae Richardson.

	W:	She’s the knee baby.



	VB:	She’s the knee baby. And then, the youngest brother—who’s 6’6” —he’s a minister. They all live in Tallahassee now.

	W:	Okay. And what is his ministry?



	VB:	He’s a—Pentecostal, I believe. The rest of us all Baptist.



W:  Okay, thank you. So, Ms. Banks, back to the midwife. What do you know about the circumstances of the midwife bringing you into the world? Do you know the woman’s name or some of her history?

	MB:	Very well. She was my grandmother on my father’s side. W:	Okay.

	MB:	And her name was Ida Williams. W:	Okay.





MB: She delivered all of her grandchildren. Which almost totaled fifty. So she was quite busy with delivering her own grandchildren, and all of the children in the community.

W:   So, she was well known for this?



	MB:	Well known. She was probably one of the most popular midwives in the country at that time. So, from my dad’ side, I know of three brothers. I know there were some that was deceased. My Uncle Floyd, my Uncle Charlie, and Matthews.

Those are my father’s brothers. He had two sisters: Annie Mae Strawnickel and Idabell Britton were my aunts on my dad’s side. On my mother’s side, there were three sisters: Annie, Martha, and—there was another sister, I think her first name was Margaret, because she died before I was born. I think her first name was Margaret. My siblings: I’m the fourth oldest of eight, and all are deceased except three of us, my sister Fannie Gentles, my brother Clemon Williams, and myself.

	W:	Can you mention them in order from oldest to youngest please?



	MB:	Mmhm. Fred Jr. Williams. Joyce Lee Williams. Fannie, Fred, Joyce, myself, Walter, Patricia—no, Evans, Patricia, and Clemon were my sisters and brothers.

	W:	Back to your grandmother for a second: from speaking with her growing up, since she was so adept at midwifery, did she ever talk about how she began that? Why that became basically became a calling for her, to deliver fifty grandchildren and all the kids in the community?

	MB:	Well, from what I could gather, it’s just that when her daughters started having children, and she started delivering, and then at some point I think she took a





class. And then after that, she just became very popular as delivering children. Never lost one, according to her. So.

	W:	Okay. Did she show u,p or was she requested?



	MB:	She was requested. Someone would come and get her. We didn’t have telephones at that time, so someone would come and— and sometimes in the middle of the night—and she would get up and go and deliver a baby.

	W:	So, that’s fascinating. I want to hold you there for a second, because I think today with the media, you know, and the smartphones and everything, and you say, well, “There was no telephone.” I mean, what happened? So could you describe that process of how a person would get from somewhere else to where she was without a cellphone or all of the modern conveniences? How did that occur?

	MB:	A lot of the time, they came by horse and buggy. [Laughter] W:	I knew you were gonna say that! [Laughter]

	MB:	Sometimes it was a horse and a wagon. Because there were very few cars. And sometimes, a person had to walk. So, you know, it wasn’t the most convenient to have a baby, because you could’ve had it by the time the midwife got there. But that was the method, that’s how they did it back then.

	W:	Well, we talked about your grandmother. Could you tell a bit about your grandfather?

	MB:	My grandfather passed away before I was born. W:	Okay.

	MB:	So, I didn’t really get to meet him—either on my mother’s side or my father’s side.





	W:	Can you mention him by name? MB:	His name was Floyd Williams.

	W:	Do you—not growing up with him, you wouldn’t have as much information, but do you know generally where he might’ve been from before he met your grandmother or anything like that?

	MB:	No.



	W:	Okay. You both mentioned that you came to Macedonia in 1963 and 1968. Could you explain how in 1963 you came to be a member of this church?

	MB:	Well, in 1957, I came here to visit my aunt for the summer. And my aunt was a member of the church here. And so, when I would come down for the summer, we would just go to church with her. And, so, after I graduated from high school, then I decided to come to Florida. I stayed in Mount Dora, Florida with my father for a short time. And then I asked my aunt if I could come over to live with her, and she said yes. And so, from there, I met Mr. Banks here and he bribed me.

	And, so, we started dating and five years later we got married! [Laughter] W:	Okay! [Laughter] So, now did you meet in 1963?

	MB:	No. Actually we met in 1960. W:	1960, okay. So, ahead of time? MB:	Mmhm.

	W:	Okay. And may I ask also about Mount Dora? What was it about Mount Dora that made you find this more of a pleasant community or more one you felt like you’d like to be involved with? Or was it just the circumstances of the time?





	MB:	Well, Mount Dora is very small. It’s a little small town in Lake County. And it’s very small. And as far as jobs opportunity, it was more privileged here. Because there was very little for Black people to do in Mount Dora, except stand on the corner or sit in the yard or whatever. So, there was no opportunities. So I was looking to get a job and start making my own way.

	W:	Were you baptized here at Macedonia?



	MB:	No, no. I was baptized in Georgia. I joined the church when I was thirteen. W:	Who was the pastor when you joined the church?

	MB:	Reverend Moore was our pastor.



	W:	Okay, thank you. I’ll come to you then, sir. We’ll talk about your association with the church in 1968. But also, I’m curious about you all from 1960. I heard something about a bribe! [Laughter] I don’t need too much information, but can you just give enough information appropriate for this religious recording? [Laughter]

	MB:	That’s the only way he could get me: he had to bribe me. [Laughter]



	VB:	That’s what she tell our grandkids. There wasn’t any bribe associated with it. She just couldn’t do without me.

	MB:	Oh, my!



	W:	So how did you meet? When you saw each other for the first time, how did that happen?

	VB:	I guess the first time I saw her, she was still in school, visiting with her cousin.



We didn’t speak. I just saw her at that point.





	W:	And how did the opportunity to have a discussion that led to a courting come about?

	VB:	Her cousin told a fabrication that I was supposed to take her to a movie, and we had never even spoken about it. So when she told her that, and I found out about it that I was supposed to take her to the movie, we went to the movie. So we kind of started from that point.

	W:	Now, it’s going to be interesting to hear the other side of this, because I’m hearing that the cousin told you. What was your role in the cousin having something to say? Or was there any?

	MB:	My cousin’s boyfriend that that time and Mr. Banks here was best friends. So they thought I needed a boyfriend, so they concocted this fabulous story.

W:  Okay, well done! [Laughter] It worked! Simple and effective, that’s really good. So from the time that you met—were you married prior to you joining the church? Or is—I’m trying to figure out how to make the 1968 work, so?

	VB:	That’s when I became a member, first time I became an actual member. I had to gone to Sunday School here from years before that. My mother first moved down and we used to attend Macedonia Sunday School. One of my cousins who we stayed with at the time we moved from Tallahassee, we moved in with him, Deacon George Gaines. He was a deacon; we lived with him for a while. So we went to Sunday School at Macedonia down at the old site—not this site, Building

74. The first church, basically the first church they had.





	W:	But the two of you did become further acquainted while at church? Your relationship blossomed—you know, the young part of your relationship—through the church. What was that like? And what kind of things —

	VB:	Our relationship really started outside of the church. But we both were churchgoers. So. We got married in Tallahassee. So she had gone to Chicago, I guess it was?

	MB:	Mmhm.



	VB:	And then back home. We kept in contact. So it was in 1963 when we actually got married. I graduated high school here in [19]60. So we had a long relationship, long-term relationship. She had moved to Chicago and then back to her hometown. Then I went and picked her up. We never lived together, so a lot of folk think we shacked, but we never did that. So when she moved to Tallahassee—I mean, from Chicago back to Washington—and I went and picked her up and brought her to Tallahassee, she actually lived with my cousin for— what, a year?

	MB:	Mmhm.



	VB:	In their home. And we kept dating. So we got married during that process in [19]63, and then moved back here.

	W:	I apologize for snickering. You don’t here that term “shacking.” But I knew what you were talking about. My grandma used it! [Laughter] “Ain’t going to be no shacking.”

	VB:	We make sure our grandkids know that. So we tell them: it’s not a good thing. W:	Ain’t gonna be no shacking!





	MB:	Unh-uh!



	VB:	None. Nothing that—we just wanted to make sure that they know.



	W:	Mmhm. So, what is it about a religious experience/involvement in your lives that—was that part of the attraction and why you ultimately knew you had a life together? Because you were both in the church?

	VB:	For me, it never came up as an issue. I guess it one of those things, you know, God just moves you together, and you just together. So it was never any discussion. Just seemed like something that mutually happened. We just maintained that relationship.

	MB:	But for me, I came from a Baptist church—not a missionary, but from a Baptist church. And I had been a member of the church since I was thirteen years old. And so, I was accustomed to going to church all day: Sunday School and worship services. Because it didn’t start ‘til 12 o’clock, so you going be there all day. So accustomed going to conventions, because my mother was the church clerk, she was the superintendent of the Sunday School, the director of vacation Bible school, so—

	W:	BTU, vacation bible school.



	MB:	We were in church. We were in church a lot! [Laughter] S,o I was accustomed to going to church, so just maintained that.

	W:	Were you baptized at Macedonia? VB:	Mmhm.

	W:	And who was the pastor?



	VB:	Named Reverend John W. Taylor, that this center is named after,





	W:	And how many church ministries are the two of you involved in?



	VB:	Well, I’ll go first. Right now, I’m actually involved—Sunday School is one of my favorite parts of the church ministry. And I’m just a student in class now, I part- time teach. I have been superintendent, director of the adult department, Sunday School, music ministry. Right now I am the director for our male chorus, president for what we call our inspirational choir. And so, those are the active things I am involved in directly in the church. Indirectly, I am the dean of Congress of Christian Education for our district, which is twenty-two churches between Brevard and Volusia Counties. I have been the chairman of the trustees. I been on the church’s corporate board of directors. I was treasurer for almost fifteen years for the church. I started our first computer system that was brought into the church, I did that in 1984. Of course, it’s grown a lot since then.

	W:	What kind of computer was it? VB:	It was an IBM PC.

	W:	256? [Laughter]



	VB:	That’s about it! [Laughter] You couldn’t get much bigger than that! My career was computers. And you laugh at that, but big computers they had in corporations were almost like 256, 512-type thing. So those are some of the things I’ve been involved in. So I don’t talk about them too much; what’s done is done. That’s then. If someone asks, I’ll share it. I don’t talk about it too much.

	W:	I appreciate it. Which ministries are you involved in? MB:	Right now?

	W:	Yes, ma’am.





	MB:	I am the secretary for the inspirational choir. I’m part of the mission department. What else am I a part of, Van? Oh! Financial secretary for our district. Also, the chairperson for our scholarship committee for the district. But it in the past here, in Macedonia—also I’m the president for the Reginald E. Johnson Scholarship Committee Fund Club, which is one of the largest organizations for awarding scholarships in this county. In the past, I taught Sunday School for thirty-two years. I am past president of the majestic choir. And, my greatest experience from that was arranging concerts. Because the majestic choir was the concert choir of the church. Arranging concerts, scheduling trips for the choir. We were the first choir in this church to produce an album. The album was recorded live; we brought in a team from Dallas, Texas. And it was recorded live on Satellite Beach. We had so many people, we had to put speakers outside so the people outside could hear. And, I was member of Choir #1, but it was disbanded. I was a member of Choir #2, it disbanded. They combined it all now, so our new name is “Inspirational Choir.” And I was a member of the Pulpit A committee. I have chaired and co-chaired many, many programs here in this church. And—just been busy since I’ve been here. I was never a person to sit idle. I’ve always been very busy. And I have enjoyed every minute I’ve been here.

	W:	It sounds like you both have been incredibly active in the church. MB:	[Laughter]

	W:	Have your church activities expanded to community activities? Are you involved in any civic organizations? Fraternities, sororities?

	MB:	We both were members of the Civic League.





	W:	And what does that encompass, being a part of the Civic League?



	MB:	Trying to help solve community problems. Helping people that was in need of, you know, like referencing. If someone was in trouble and they needed a lawyer, we could assist them in that area, recommend someone to help them. Or if someone was in need of food, if somebody’s house burned down and they needed, you know, furniture, clothing, and stuff like that. Basically, community functions.

	W:	Have either of you run for, or considered, running for public office? MB:	No, I would be too busy for that. [Laughter]

	VB:	People tried to talk me into it once. I guess I just wasn’t interested in doing that. I don’t see anything wrong those who are interested in doing such a thing.

	MB:	But, I am retired from my own corporation. I retired from Harris Corporation, which is an electronic company worldwide. We both are Harris retirees. And then after I retired from that, then I started my own corporation. And now I’m fully retired.

W: What was your corporate work? MB: Corporate work? My company? W:  Yes.

	MB:	Telecommunications.



	W:	Okay. What aspect? Cellphone lines?



	MB:	We did cellphones, we did pagers, we did our own repair. We had a payment center where everybody in the community could come and pay their bills. We did a whole bunch of stuff. [Laughter] But it was rewarding, it was very rewarding.





	W:	I’m glad to hear that. I’d like to back up for both of you a little bit and get back to some of the basics. We went from how you met and talked about the church, but I didn’t ask anything about your early education or things like that. So I’ll start with you, sir. What is your earliest memory of school? What’s the first school you went to?

	VB:	My first memory of school was in Leon County. I mentioned Meridian Road.



There was a little segment community out there called Kirksey. There was a little school there, it went through eighth grade; first grade through eighth grade.

There was no such thing as kindergarten and all that.



	W:	What was the name of the school? VB:	Kirksey.

	W:	Oh, so the school was Kirksey.



	VB:	Yeah. And I don’t remember whether we called it high school, because I just remember it went to the eighth grade. Nowadays we wouldn’t call that a high school. But, that was my first formal—starting to get formal education. Little old country school.

	W:	Do you remember the principal? VB:	I want to say it was Gardner.

	W:	Mr. or Ms. Gardner?



	VB:	It was a Mrs. Gardner. I believe that’s the name. But they didn’t live too far from the church. We would walk to school.

	W:	How far was it?





	VB:	About two and a half miles, I guess. Rain, sleet, whatever; that’s how you got there, you walked.

	W:	Did the school bus carrying other kids pass you ever? Or you didn’t have to— VB:	You mean White kids? [Laughter]

	W:	Yes, sir, that is what I wanted to ask.



	VB:	Yeah, exactly. And they would jeer and, you know, you can kind of imagine, White kids, how they would do Black kids. The little remarks, you know. Parents would teach you about that stuff. You know, you just kind of—

	W:	So you were prepared for it? VB:	Yeah.

	W:	“Don’t react, leave them alone, stay to your own business.”



	VB:	“Sticks and stones” and all that. That kind of stuff. We would walk to school. I went to school there until we moved down here. My mother moved back and forth to the south a lot. But we never missed school. She would always make sure we were in school. That school eventually closed, and they moved to another little school just off from Bradfordville called Lake McBride. That was a junior high school.

	W:	So you got there like sixth or seventh grade, something like that? VB:	Yeah. And then—

	W:	Did you have a favorite teacher there, or a favorite subject?



	VB:	I think my favorite subject has always been related to History. Even in college, I kind of liked History. And then Biology, because they weren’t teaching Biology, called it “Science” at that time. Then Ms. Smith, she was a family member on my





mother’s side. She was a teacher. And the principal, the last name was Jenkins. I don’t remember his first name, but it was always Mr. Jenkins. You didn’t need to know the first name. [Laughter] So from there, eventually I wound up coming here to school. Well, I went to Lincoln High School in Tallahassee for a couple of years. And then, after ninth grade, we moved back down here and basically.

That’s where we wound up finishing through high school.



	W:	Was Lincoln integrated at that time? VB:	No.

	W:	It was segregated?



VB:  Lincoln was never integrated, as far as I can recall. It was right there in the area inside the city of Tallahassee called Frenchtown. In that area. Right down in that area, on Brevard Avenue. On Brevard and Macomb, kind of.

	W:	That’s right. I know exactly where Lincoln is. VB:	Right there.

	W:	Who was the principal at Lincoln the year that you went there?



	VB:	I want to say his name was—I’m not sure. Jenkins come to mind, but I’m not sure. I know Gaither was there for a while.

	W:	Jake Gaither?



	VB:	Yeah.



	W:	What was that like, knowing Jake Gaither? Somebody listens, goes, “Who’s Jake Gaither?” Probably the most famous Black football coach. Like an Eddie Robinson. “Who’s Jake Gaither?” He was big stuff.

	VB:	[Laughter]. I mean, I knew who he was, but it’s not like I—





	W:	“Coach!” “Coach!” [Laughter] MB:	Yeah, that’s [inaudible 32:01]. W:	“Morning, coach!” [Laughter]

	W:	Fact is, he spoke for my high school commencement exercise here, in Melbourne.

	W:	Oh? I believe that. You know, the time has just passed and moved on since he’s gone. But there was a time when he was perhaps the most influential African American man in the state. When they had the stuff with the beaches, they called him to try to calm it down, in south Florida and everything. So he was very well known. People wouldn’t know it now, but he was very well known.

	MB:	Yes he was.



	VB:	Well, after high school, I had planned not to go to school ever again after high school.

	W:	How did that come about?



	VB:	It was just something in my brain: I wasn’t gonna go to school. Except that summer I got a job working at a mobile home park, cutting grass. And I said, “This is not what I want to do.” [Laughter] And, fortunately, that was about this time they were founding a junior college type thing, community colleges.

	W:	TCC?



	VB:	In Cocoa. No, this was still here in Cocoa. They had just started a community college called Carver Community College. It was for the Black kids. It was at Monroe High School in Cocoa. So I would work all day, go to school at night.





Because I was not gonna cut yards for the rest of my days. So I actually drove my car, ran it in the ground.

	W:	What kind of car did you have? VB:	I had a 1957 Ford.

	MB:	Black and white.



	VB:	Had to overhaul the engine once because of all the driving. W:	Did it have the fins on the back, over the lights?

	VB:	It had the slight fins. It wasn’t real sharp. But in the process, the president, who was named Greene, and he talked the county into giving me a bus. Because there were some other students, Black students, coming from Melbourne to that community college, as from Titusville to Cocoa. And then, of course, Brevard comes right around Cocoa area.

	W:	Long county Brevard is. It’s narrow, but it’s long.



	VB:	Yeah, it’s long. [Laughter] So he talked them into giving us a bus and talked me into—since I was driving my car—commuting, the other five or six students. They got this old bus, but I had to get a license. So I went and got a license. I drove a bus then for the rest of my terms going to Cocoa, using this old bus. And then from there the plan was to go to Tallahassee and finish up at Florida A&M University. After I got there, “I don’t really want”—I like the idea of art— commercial and fine arts. I knew I liked that idea. And that’s what I had intended to do. Fact is, I went in and got accepted into the school, and then I got disillusioned with that idea.

	W:	How so?





	VB:	Some reason, I just became uninterested in doing that. I can’t tell you why. But I knew I would have to do something. So in the afternoons, there was a technical school right near Leon High School. And they were offering this course in something they called keypunch operation. And I said, “Well, I can do that until I decide what I want to do.” It so happens that started my whole career in information systems. So I finished that, came back here after we were married. We married in Tallahassee, and came back here and took me about six months to get a job. Because nobody wanted to hire Black folk in 1963. Everybody thought every Black person was a militant of some kind. But I was unwilling to just accept whatever they wanted to give me. I eventually got the job, and that’s how I kind of got into the information systems. And from there, I moved up through the ranks in that environment and retired as a systems engineer managing a computer operation for Harris Corporation.

	W:	Before I move to your wife, I just have one more question: this is probably— because I think it would be fascinating for people to think about the concept of Black community colleges. You mentioned you went to Carver. And there used to be a series of African American community colleges. What was it like being a Black community college student? And what do you remember about the environment, or sports, or anything? Just to describe how that would be, something somebody would do, for someone who’s never heard of it and never thought of it.

	VB:	It was mostly academic. They had some—mostly basketball kind of sports. It wasn’t really like a really organized league of players. I mean, there would be a





basketball team that played. There wasn’t any other school nearby. So they would play—actually, we invited people like the Globetrotters in, and they’d have programs of that sort.

	W:	So you never played Ocala? VB:	No.

	W:	That was too far?



	VB:	Too far. I mean, these are poor schools. It was done inside of a high school. So that mean it was done after regular high school, and worked in between high school activities. Which there were, you know, formal team relationships in high school. But from the college, it was primarily academic.

	W:	So the Globetrotters came?



	VB:	You know, special programs. Invited them to put on a show. So, those kind of things would occur. But it was primarily academic.

	W:	No frills?



	VB:	Unh-uh.



	W:	Ms. Banks, what is your earliest memory of education?



	MB:	Oh, lord! That’s—we had a big school. We had two rooms! [Laughter] We had two teachers: Mrs. McClendon and Mrs. Hill.

	W:	Which one was the principal?



MB:  I think they both kind of shared it equally, because we were the only school for Blacks in the country. Mrs. McClendon, she had first grade through I think, like, fourth grade. And then Mrs. Hill, she had the balance. Because we only went to the seventh grade. And at the seventh grade level, you graduated and you went





to the high school in town. So after I graduated from the little—it was Gibson Grove Community School—

	W:	And where was Gibson Grove located?



	MB:	It was right across the street from my house. [Laughter] W:	Right across the street from your house?

	MB:	Right across the road, right actually across the road. [Laughter] W:	And what road was it on: a major road?

	MB:	Uh-huh. It was Highway 76. So all I had to do was run right across the road to the school. And the church was just beyond the school. So after that, we went to the high school inside the city, which was called Washington High School. And I graduated from Washington High School. Well—

	W:	Who was the principal? MB:	Professor Jackson.

	W:	And who was your favorite teacher?



	MB:	I would eventuate to say—probably my Home Economics teacher. And I can’t for the life of me—I was sitting here trying to remember her name. And the reason for that was because, growing up as a child, we didn’t eat beef. And the first time I had a hamburger, I thought that was—I thought I had died and went to Heaven! [Laughter] That was the best sandwich I ever ate in my life! And until this day, I still think about that hamburger. Because we just didn’t eat beef.

	W:	What was special about that hamburger?





	MB:	That hamburger was off the chain! That hamburger had lettuce, tomatoes, pickles, mustard, and ketchup. It was the bomb. It was so good. I can still taste it, it was so good.

	W:	Was there any other aspect of Home Economics that was really fascinating for you?

	MB:	Well, in Home Economics you learn a lot of practical— W:	How to budget, sewing—

MB:  How to budget, and how to set the table. How to cook. How to fold the napkins. You know, how to decorate the tables for different occasions. How to sew. So I learned a lot stuff in Home Economics, so I think that was my favorite.

W:  Were you involved in any clubs or activities? Were you a cheerleader? Did you play sports?

	MB:	Didn’t have time. I had to come home and take care of the smaller children in the family, because my mother worked two or three jobs. And so, when I got off the bus, that meant I had to walk a couple of miles to pick up the little ones and then come home and prepare dinner.

	W:	So you had to walk and go get them, and walk them back home? MB:	Amen.

	W:	So round-trip? MB:	Round-trip.

	W:	Wow.



	MB:	And then had to cut the wood to cook the food, before we got the electric stove. When we got the electric stove—ooh! I had a whole celebration all by myself. But





before that, I had to go out in the woods and cut down the tree, and then split the wood up, and then come home and make fire in the stove, and then cook the food on one of those cast iron stoves.

	W:	The black one with the pot belly, with the thing on top?



MB:  There you go. With the tank on the side where you heat up the water? W:  I know all about it! [Laughter]

MB:  And when Momma finally got us enough money to buy us an electric stove and an electric iron, and I didn’t have to heat that iron no more to iron that uniform? Oh, my Lord!

W:  So let me ask you this, since we’ve taken it all off now, we just gonna speak to each other: was it city water, or did you dig a well and pump it?

MB: A well? That was for rich people. We had a spring. W:  A spring! So you had a bucket?

MB:  A bucket. [Laughter] We had to go—it was a good, about as far from here to the end of the hallway here, to the spring. And you had your bucket, and you dipped the bucket down in the spring, and you get your clear water.

W:   Huh. That must’ve been some good tasting water, though.



	MB:	It was the heaviest water you would ever drink in your whole life, but it was sure enough good and cold. It was good.

	W:	So I guess the next question is: since you were getting water, there was no running water. Was there a cistern? Or did you all have an outhouse?

	MB:	Oh, yes! Everybody had a outhouse. W:	Yeah, I had one, too.





	MB:	We had fancy ones, too. Because my aunt, her family was all carpenters. And so sometimes we would have one that had a round hole like this. Most of the ones that my brother and them built, they were square. So when we got that round one—ooh ooh!

	W:	Did you have the stick there, too? Put the stick down first to just chase anything out beforehand?

	MB:	No! Unh-uh.



	W:	No? Because we had a stick for ours. MB:	[Laughter]

	W:	Because it was out in the woods, so we had to just check to make sure there was nothing—

	VB:	Nothing [inaudible 43:37] like that. [Laughter] W:	Can you imagine?

	MB:	Unbelievable. With our Sears Roebuck catalog? Amen. W:	So let me guess: the big wash bucket and the scrubber? MB:	Oh, yeah.

	W:	And the big iron pot to heat the water?



	MB:	Yes. And I have a little scrub board right now hanging in my washroom at home, to remind me of my humble beginnings.

	W:	Yeah, I used to do that.



	MB:	Yes. Be so cold in the wintertime when you get ready to wash, by the time you hang them up on the line, they frozen already.

	W:	Yup.





	MB:	Yes. God is good, I’ll tell you.



	W:	This young lady behind me right now is going: “What are y’all talking about?” MB:	[Laughter]

	W:	“You are making that up.”



	MB:	Oh no! This is real! This is real. Amen! W:	So you graduated from high school?

	MB:	Mmhm.



	W:	And what’s your next step?



	MB:	I graduated Thursday night. Friday morning, me and my dad was headed to Florida. So I said, “Well, I’m gonna go to school.” So I stayed with my dad for a while that summer, and then I came over to Melbourne. And I enrolled in school. And I think I finished almost half a semester, then I decided I wanted to travel. So I got me two jobs, and started working and saving my money so I could—

	W:	Go somewhere. MB:	Go somewhere.

	W:	Did you have a passport and all that? MB:	No, no. Just in the United States.

	W:	Have you ever travelled internationally, left the United States? MB:	Only to Canada.

	W:	How about you, sir? VB:	Only Canada.

	W:	Do you have passports? MB:	Mmhm.





	VB:	Mmhm.



	W:	If you were going to go anywhere in your hearts’ desire—would it be something you’d ever think about? Outside the United States: where would it be and why?

	MB:	I would go to Africa. I want to go to the mother country. And to Egypt. Those are the only two places I’m interested in going over there. The other stuff, I don’t care about. I know it’s interesting, you know, but—I guess because we’ve travelled so much in the United States. We’ve seen so much here in the United States. And so that would be the only thing that I would really be interested in seeing.

	W:	So I guess you’ve got to go along with what she said, or—?



	VB:	What she said. [Laughter] I would like to go to South America, some of the Caribbean islands. Africa would be nice, but it never was something that I really had a big hankering to do. The old country, I never really cared too much about a thing like Rome and all that. I mean I studied—it probably would be interesting to go. If I had the opportunity to go, I probably would go, but I’m not hankering to go.

	W:	How about the Holy Land? Any of those places? I mean, it was very different, just like Egypt now. Was that something you might consider, a pilgrimage there?

	MB:	Well, you know, I probably would. But it’s kind of like any other attraction that you go to now: you don’t know what is real and what isn’t. Because it’s so commercialized until I think I would get very disillusioned with it, because what you’ve learned years ago, now they say, “Oh, that’s not the place. It’s over here.” You know, a lot of that goes on, from talking to different ones that has been there. So you don’t really know what’s real and what isn’t. So I think I would be





very disillusioned. We did have, years ago, we did have an opportunity to go to England for ten days. And for whatever reason, he and I can’t even remember why we didn’t go. Because it was only cost us three-hundred dollars each to go. And we didn’t go for ten days. And we would have got to spend the night in a castle; which, I probably wouldn’t have slept, but it would have been interesting to see! [Laughter] But we were going with another group. We were going with a group of people that we knew from another church.

	W:	Tower of London, London Bridge. MB:	Yeah. All that.

	W:	Buckingham Castle.



	MB:	Mmhm. We just decided we weren’t gonna go. And I think that’s one of the biggest regrets that we have. And so we said, if the opportunity ever afforded us again, we would never turn down a trip. Especially for a reasonable price.

	W:	What are some of the cherished memories that you have of being here as members of Macedonia Missionary Baptist Church?

	MB:	I think for me, my teaching experience over the thirty-two years. I get so excited in January when I’d get my new students. [Laughter] Because I had pretty much, I learned all of the older ones from the previous year when they get promoted to the next class. So when I got my new students, I’d be all excited. That was my day, that I was getting new students that I would be able to try to train and input God’s word into for the next twelve months. So.

	W:	How about you, sir?





	VB:	I was thinking back, and I believe it was even before I actually joined the church. Reverend Taylor was a relatively new preacher. Revered Massey, who was the pastor, he was one of those long-winded preachers. And my attention span, even today, sometimes it can be short. And then Reverend Taylor, when he spoke at the time, he would say what he would had to say, and he’d be done. Reverend Massey would talk two hours, it seemed. So I would enjoy whenever Reverend Taylor was speaking, whether he was at Macedonia or at Allen Chapel. You may have heard someone say there’s a relationship there. I’d go wherever he was. So those were the things that I think I remembered and enjoyed most. That’s attending; but as far as doing things in the church, I think working in the Sunday School has been—doing things that help the church, I’ll put it that way. Because there’s more than one thing. Whatever I could do to help the church. As I said, I’ve worked as superintendent in the Sunday school. I helped to organize our departmentalized Sunday School, which we’re under now. Before that, our Sunday School was—everybody went to Sunday School, and you had children over there, and you had youth over there, and adults. You know, just kind of a mix. And we worked to try and get that structured such that we could teach more toward the age group that you were trying to get to. I think those kind of things. I mentioned, I think the other technology-wise was getting the church to agree on computer technology.

	W:	Saw that as a big step?



	VB:	Yeah. That was a big step. Spending five thousand dollars on the computer?



That’s when they were really expensive. Now you can get them—





	W:	Laptop for four-fifty. MB:	[Laughter] That’s it.

	VB:	Mmhm. That was a big deal.



	W:	Speaking of big deal, I guess I’ll just close out on this part for you and then I’ll ask you as well, ma’am: why is being part of this church important to you?

	VB:	For me, as far as this church, I think the real reason is because this is where I grew up, in this church. A church is important for all the spiritual reasons. But for this particular church, it’s the first church that I actually became an official member of. So, it’s kind of a nostalgic thing, from that standpoint. So I guess that’s the real reason—this is home.

	W:	Why is Macedonia important to you, ma’am?



	MB:	It’s important to me because Macedonia has such a rich history. And our pastor, he is such a people person. He believes in helping people. He cares about people. He cares about his members. And, believe it or not, I take classes in our state congress and in our district congress, and I have classes with pastors sometimes. And when they share that they don’t know their members—and, man, I stick my chest out real proud and I say, well, “Our pastor, he know everybody.” I said, “He know every child in our church, he know every adult in our church.” [Laughter] So by him being a people person, and I’m a people person—so I think that’s why I like it here. Because I feel comfortable here. I get spiritually fed. And if I’m hungry, I can get bodily fed. That’s why I love it: because we do so much stuff here. We have so many ministries that really helps people,





as well as our own members. So that’s why I’m still here. I’m going be here till the Lord say, “Move on.” So.

	W:	Is there anything we haven’t talked about so far that you feel you would like to add for the record of just having this discussion with the opportunity to talk about history, or the community, or the church? Maybe a subject I haven’t touched on that you’d like to broach at this time?

	MB:	Well, I would like to say that I feel proud that he and I were the pioneers for all of this coming together. Because it started with our 122nd church anniversary, wherein that the history of our members were introduced. And he and I were the program chairpersons for that particular event. And I’m glad to see that the publishing ministry has picked it up and taken it to a whole different level than what we did. So I’m glad to see it continuing on from where we started it.

	W:	Sir?



	VB:	I’d just mention the—I guess you asked about the church. The first reason why I was ever a part of this church was because my mother was here. She attended this church when we first moved from Tallahassee. And first impressions can take you a long way. So, there was something about the church that I kind of liked. Family liked it. So we kind of stayed, until I became a member. Now I’m stuck.

	MB:	No, you not stuck! You still here. [Laughter]



	VB:	So we’re a member. Not only that—my daughter, she, and son, they are members of this church. My granddaughters are members of this church. Because their mothers moved membership to another church, but our grandkids





said, “We’re not moving!” [Laughter] They said they going to stay at Macedonia. And I think the reason for that is because there’s more youth activities here. And the church where her mother attends primarily, it’s not as much. So they like being a part of the youth ministries that’s here. It kind of holds them and keeps them. I think that’s kind of true with most of the youth here in the church. They have programs here that hold them and keep them. Even though they getting spiritually fed, they’re doing some other things, too. Which, I think you have to have that balance. I mean it can’t all be fun, because this is a church. This is God’s house. [Laughter] So it can’t all be fun.

	MB:	Got to be spiritually fed [Laughter].



	VB:	But you got to keep that balance. And I think the church is doing a pretty good job of that. Not that it’s perfect, because nothing is. So that’s one of the things that I think helps even to keep me here, although my participation in things has waned a long way. Which is fine. I still see the church moving forward, which is good.

	W:	You actually spurred me on to one new area, and that’s your children. I didn’t get a chance to ask you about that. Could you tell me about your children? From oldest to youngest. And your hopes and aspirations, what they do. You know, just chat them up for a little bit.

	VB:	We have two children. They’re both adults. A son, he has two daughters. One lives in Orlando. She graduated with her master’s degree—was it last year or the year before?

	MB:	Year before.





	VB:	Year before last. The young one lives in Jacksonville. She also has a daughter, so we are great-grandparents! [Laughter]

	W:	Alright, you’re going to have to give them some names now! Son with a daughter, with a daughter, with a daughter! Let’s start with your son: what’s his name?

	VB:	His name is Veranta. W:	Veranta?

	VB:	V-E-R-A-N-T-A



	W:	Okay. And his two daughters? VB:	His middle name is Verl, V-E-R-L. W:	Veranta Verl.

	VB:	Last name Banks.



	W:	Okay. Now what about the oldest granddaughter?



	VB:	The oldest granddaughter, her last name’s Nicole Shirley. Lives in Orlando. W:	And the youngerer?

	VB:	They call her Von, but I think it’s Vonshea, V-O-N-S-H-E-A. Banks. But she does carry his last name. And the great-granddaughter is Arianna. And I forget what her last name is right now. But they live in Jacksonville. She’s six?

	MB:	Six.



	VB:	Just started first grade.



	W:	So that’s the son. How about your daughter?



	VB:	Her name’s Valerian. She’s married now, last name’s Williams. She has three daughters. The oldest is—seventeen?

	MB:	Mmhm.





	VB:	Her name is Maura, M-A-U-R-A. W:	That’s pretty.

	VB:	And her middle daughter is Avani, A-V-A-N-I. And the youngest is Shailyn, S-H- A-I-L-Y-N. Shailyn. Shailyn Monet. But she said her name is not “mo-nay,” it’s “mo-net” [Laughter].

	W:	Did you tell her the French, they don’t pronounce the last letter? [Laughter] VB:	I ain’t French! [Laughter]

	MB:	And the last comment is: he and I have been married fifty-one years. W:	Oh, congratulations.

	MB:	Thank you.



	W:	That’s marvelous.



	W:	When you think back on your fifty-one years, what do you think has led to the success with children, grandchildren, great-grands, vibrant community involvement through your church, successfully retired, and everything seemingly okay? How did you do it?

	MB:	It was an interesting process. We have a lot in common. You know, we come from similar backgrounds. And we believe in God. We believe in his power. We just believe in sharing with each other and with other people. And we raised our children the same way—to be sharers, or not always receivers. So that goes a long way in training your children, because they need to know how to give back.

	VB:	Well I guess the one thing we kind of learned—it didn’t happen early in the marriage, but we learned soon into the marriage that, never go to bed angry with each other. I mean, that sounds like, “Well, I can do that.” But it’s kind of like





forgiveness. You know, that’s for you. The forgiveness part is for you, it’s not so much for the other person. But that’s not to say the problem’s solved. It’s just that we just never go to bed angry with each other.

	W:	So I’m curious—because, you can put that in a box and sell it for a lot of money.



So how do you accomplish that?



	MB:	You have to know how to talk to each other. Communication is the key. VB:	I also found, if we both can’t agree on something—

	MB:	Don’t do it.



	VB:	—we just leave it alone. That’s not to say it’s dead; but for now, just leave it alone.

	W:	Best not to push it. VB:	Yeah.

	W:	And then that works? That’s successful for the two of you? MB:	Mmhm.

	VB:	Yeah. Eventually you can come back to it, and you can talk about it. And maybe wind up doing it. Or something similar. Or nothing at all. [Laughter] You may decide to not do it, just forget it. [Laughter]

	W:	If we can’t agree, then it wasn’t good in the first place. MB:	That’s right.

	W:	That’s wonderful. Well, on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program and Macedonia Missionary Baptist Church in this joint effort of collecting interviews, I want to thank you for your participation and being so candid and





generous. Your generosity of spirit just helped things go by really quickly. It doesn’t seem like we’ve been talking for as long as we have.

VB:  How long have we been talking?



	W:	Just a little over an hour, and I’m not mad at all. And I’d like to give you this opportunity for what we call “final privilege”: if there’s something else that you’d like to talk about, whatever it is, or a final comment, please do so at this time.

These will be my last comments in the interview. When you all finish saying what you finish—your last words—that will be the end of the interview with our thanks.

	MB:	I would just like to thank the publication ministry for allowing us this opportunity to share.

	VB:	They going laugh, but I have a question directly to you: what do that shawl mean?

	W:	This is a Kente cloth. It’s supposed to symbolize family, tradition, heritage of a particular tribe or clan of people in Africa, in certain countries in Africa. For me, that’s not how this came to be. I was given this when I graduated from the University of Florida in 1994 by one of the African American attorneys. It was the first time they had given Kente cloths to all the Black graduates. So that was the summer graduation of [19]94. And I’ve just kept it in honor of the fact that someone thought enough of us to give us something to recognized as Black students graduating at UF. And so—

VB:  I was thinking it may have been a genealogy thing. W:  Oh, it probably is. It might represent his genealogy. VB:  Yeah, but not necessarily yours.





	W:	But it was a gift of love, given in kind of a family way. I’d like to check and see what mine might be, because that is what it represents.

	MB:	Well, we’d like to thank you very much, too. Nice to meet you. W:	Thank you. I appreciate it.

	MB:	And thank you so much.



	W:	I enjoyed our conversation and thank you for this opportunity. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Thompson and Christian Tirado, May 2, 2018 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, June 27, 2018

	Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 24, 2019