AAHP 341; Harris; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 341 Matthis Harris

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Justin Dunnavant and Ryan Morini on June 11, 2014 3 hours, 9 minutes | 99 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 341

Interviewee: Matthis Harris

Interviewer: Justin Dunnavant and Ryan Morini Date: June 11, 2014



	D:	Justin Dunnavant interviewing Mr. Matthis Harris, Jr. Today is June 11, 2014.



	H:	Hannah was a good friend and a very good person also. I was talking to my nephew one day. By then, she was an attorney graduated from law school her at UF. He said, “Joe,” in fact was right there with the financial purse making sure he had everything he need to get through the school successfully. I didn’t even realize that my nephew had had any kind of dealing with him. Joe was the kind of person you said something like, “Oh, my cousin is going to school there.” He said, “Where is your cousin?” He go in there and get on the computer and look him and sent an email or something. He would say, “We need to talk.” I remember one time there was something here at the university. We had some funds to have a Black speaker come in or something. He had me come in to talk to the Black students. Yeah. Just out of the blue. These are résumés. Some of them might be a little messed up in terms of dates and stuff. I would suggest you make copies like I said.

	D:	Okay. Yeah.



	H:	That way you can have them and have time to look through them, because we probably won’t be able to do that much today. Just look through those. You can ask questions if you want.

D:   Yeah, we will do that now.



H:  The guys from Tallahassee. You all do know the guy. The guy’s name is George Bass. Matter of fact, if you go on the internet, you can find a whole bunch of stuff about him.





	D:	About George Bass?



	H:	Yeah…they got a whole bunch of stuff. It’s like that Tallahassee part of the Civil Rights Movement.

	D:	Yeah.



	H:	They should have had me in there with that group, because what happened is that I was in school up in Tallahassee. In matter of fact, I tell you what, there’s a case. There’s a case that went to the Supreme Court. It was like the first case in the Civil Rights Era, where we saw the handwriting on the wall. That they decided a case against us. I tell you what it was. It was a sheriff versus…damn, I can’t even think of it now. But we lost the case. What it was, this was a sympathy demonstration for the people that were in jail. They put of a bunch of our students from Florida A&M in jail. So we had another demonstration. We told them basically “We are going to over flood the jail.” So these crackers said, “We got something you all then.”. They got some buses out back there. If we came in the waves, they would just put us right on the bus, took us to the county fairground, put us in there where you put the damn horses and cows. We were full of fervor and everything. You couldn’t hurt us.

	D:	I was wondering what went on in those fairgrounds areas. Because this is a big group of people you all got together.

	H:	No, we just talked and stuff. What would happen is some people would be getting out earlier depending on the connections and stuff. If their families had money, they would be coming out. If you had to wait for the NAACP, if they had to raise





money, or if they didn’t money in their treasuries, I think we stayed there for about a week and a half. Maybe almost two weeks.

	D:	So it was open-air? H:	Hmm?

	D:	It was open-air?



	H:	Oh yeah. Not that they would give a shit about us in there. Are you kidding? D:	Did they feed y’all in there? Or did you have people bring food for you?

	H:	Yeah, they probably gave us some bullshit stuff. I don’t even remember, because it has been so long ago. They didn’t give a shit about what happened to us. We were just a bunch of Colored folk that—

	D:	Causing problems.



	H:	Yeah, that’s not acting right. [Laughter] Matter of fact, the dean of student, this guy named Reverend M.G. Miles; at Florida A&M. Dr. Gore was the president at the time. Miles said, “I told y’all to no go bother there and bother them White folks at—” restaurants and theatres and stuff like that. First thing after everything got integrated, because the middle class Black folks were the ones with the money, right? So Miles down there with a damn big old chicken legs just eating up and everything and enjoying his self. This may have been a year afterwards or something. They were the first ones to go in there, all the middle class Black folk who got money and stuff and degrees and stuff. But don’t go down there bother them White folks. I had this whole cart already, because I knew he was kind of a buffoon from day one. Like when you go to university, you have four years. He was the dean of students for the whole four years I was there. I was hated by





him. We had a mutual hatred for each other. I decided that his parking space and the president of the university parking space were my parking spaces, so that’s where I parked my car when there was no other space available. Just so happens that the car that I drove was my brother-in-law’s who was a faculty member at the university. But they knew that it was me driving that particular car, because we had three or four cars, right? So they would ticket the car. So I had a whole bunch of tickets by the time it was time for me to graduate. But you have got to realize my mentality. I came from New York. I lived here, but as a kid, I started working in New York like when I was in high school. So my mindset was not about these country-ass people here. It was really about a much more affluent class of people and the business of getting done what I need to get done. The parking spaces were tight on the campus, right? And the student parking space was like a quarter of a mile away almost. A&M is located over here. You got to come up the hill, okay? So no matter what student parking space you had, you were going to be coming up the hill. I wasn’t about to be huffing and puffing if I had an appointment up there in the office where the president’s office was. I was grabbing that space. They said, we ride it. Ride it, that’s your job. Because I knew the police also. I knew all the police, and they knew my car, too. Because they make it that that way, so that they can nail you. So they said, we will write the ticket. I said, that’s good. Just keep on writing. I ain’t got no money no ways, so I probably won’t ever pay it. [Laughter] It wasn’t state ticket at the time.

Because those dudes, they didn’t have the power like the University of Florida police have here. They can impound your car and things like that. They wouldn’t





even think like that back in those days. They just added it to the fees. Like lab fees and crap like that. So when it came time to graduate, I don’t know how much it was. I said, it is time for me to leave. Just paid it and got the hell out of there. [Laughter]

D:  I was wondering that. While y’all were doing this activism work off campus, were y’all also doing stuff on campus like against the administration or to try get things changed around FAMU?

	H:	No, you have to understand most people were afraid of the administration. And the ones that were not afraid, they had been coopted. I guess it was like living in South Africa almost. You had a group of Negroes who had been coopted like basically the frats and the sororities. They just wanted to make it through peacefully and come out and get their nice little middle-class job. They weren’t about the people. That’s for sure. See, that’s where the clash was. I should tell you another story that’s even more interesting than that, that’s related to that though. My mother worked here at the University of Florida. As a result of my mother working here, she worked in the student union, and it was over there, my mother was fortunate enough to have met, because the University of Florida has always had a law school, and that’s where all the lawyers went to school in the state of Florida, she was fortunate enough to have met every governor after she started work here. And one of the reasons they would have the socials in the student union. So the governors would come back and so forth. But also when they were students, often they worked. The law school was maybe three blocks over here. It was over here where the library is now. And the campus was much





smaller at that time. So often those boys, my mother would have been their supervisor when they were doing work at the student union. Or they may have just been friends and talked. So it ended up that like every governor knew her. And she had a personal relationship with them. Like often they were so proud of their association, they would come and they would mention her if they were giving a talk or something at the university. And she would come to the talk. Or if they became a legislator, and they went to Washington, then she was coming to Washington. Please come into my office and meet with me and things like that. So all the governors, she knew. So that was no problem.

	D:	What did she do with her job? H:	She was just a maid. [Laughter] D:	But they all knew her.

	H:	It was pride to the times. They had to pull donating. D:	I was about to say.

	H:	I was the superhero for all of us. And driving the garbage trucks. Eventually she became a supervisor for the custodial staff as the university grew its staff. It started have to put Black people in some kind of position, so they can count them as an affirmative action slot. But anyway, I had wanted a job up in help them.

Negro, say, you can’t have a job. So I did a little bit of investigation, and I found out that the money that they were spending for the jobs should have been for kids in need. But they decided that the jobs should go to the frat boys. All my teachers when I was a student here were Alphas, so I knew the inside track on how it worked. I had never been a joining nigger, and that’s the way it goes.





Exactly like that. I have never needed an organization in the sense that I am going to pay you to be able to drink with you and for you to whoop my ass. It doesn’t work like that. It doesn’t work like that. So I refused to join. As a matter of fact, I had three roommates, including myself would be four, they were Alphas.

They were whatever that blue and white one is.



	D:	Sigma.



	H:	Sigma. And they were Omegas. Let me tell you who my roommates were, because this gets to be interesting also. Aaron Green, who became the mayor here in Gainesville who was one of my junior scouts. Alan Green, his twin brother. One of my scouts. William Eckerd III, who came from Jacksonville. And myself. So anything that was going on the inside, they would talk. William Eckerd had been my sister’s boyfriend, and he subsequently became General William Eckerd III of the United States Army, okay? [Laughter] And Alan, of course, went to a top accounting firm. He was just a whip. What is the top accounting firm?

Still is. I forgot. I can’t think of the name of it.



	D:	Armstrong?



	H:	Something like that, anyways. Those were my roommates. Anytime the frat had something, Matt, you invited. The sorority sisters I was acquainted with…this you are going to like. When I went to Florida A&M, you know they sold meal books, right? I never bought a meal book in my life.

	D:	You knew the people in there?



	H:	No, what it was these girls didn’t eat lunch very often. So I don’t know what I did for breakfast. I guess I just was in a hurry and maybe had some cereal or





something at home from time to time. Or maybe I went to McDonalds in the winter. Random McDonalds down the hill. I had a car, too, which was very unusual for Black, because they didn’t even allow you to have a car. I think in your second two years you can have a car, but I don’t think can your first two years, you could have a car.

	D:	How did you swing it? Because your brother-in-law was in faculty?



	H:	Now you raise another. Let me finish this, and then I will come back to that one. So anyway, make a long story short, my mother eventually visited up at Florida A&M. And I asked, you need to come and talk to these people. So she told, I think it was Robert Miles, she said, “Let’s get an understanding here. If my son don’t get a job, I am going to come back to Tallahassee, but I won’t be visiting with you. I am going to go to that other hill over there and visit with my friend the governor.” So that was the end of that. They didn’t give me one job. They gave me three jobs. I had a job in the cafeteria. I had a job at the movie, which I think once a week, Friday if I am not mistaken. I had another job in the vice-president’s office where I did work on student loans for students, which made me a very popular man on campus.

	D:	I can imagine.



	H:	Because I know when the money came in. So everybody wanted to know, “has my check come in?” Well, I don’t know. You had to come in there and sit down and go through a procedure, but if I knew, I would tell them. “When I go to the office tomorrow, I will look and see if your name is on the list, okay? So if your name is on the list, then it’s time. Come and pick up your money.” That kind of





thing. Just the fact that you don’t have to worry about next semester. But that was my work. I think that was Vice-President Lee’s office, because he was vice- president. But anyway, that is what I did. It got good. Now, you were asking about how I got a car.

	D:	Yeah.



	H:	I am trying to think. We owned a car. Me and my brother owned a car. I don’t know what happened to our car. I know one of our cars got wrecked. Maybe that’s what happened. Because when we were in New York, my sister wrecked one of our cars. She was out on a visit. On those old cars, the power brake system would go out. Brake system went out so much. My sister said, “The brakes went out, so I just got it into the back of a city bus.” We had a convertible Pontiac. And that was just before they came out with those fins on the back. So that was either [19]58 or [19]59, somewhere around there. So we lost our car, but that was no great loss, because we still had the will to live and survive. [Laughter] Because we were living in New York then. My brother had just come back from Germany, by the way, because he is older. He came out of the war. My mother said, “Well, you need to help him and do something with him.” It should have been the other way around. He should have been trying to help me. So I told him, “I said, look, you need to go back home. You need to stay here in New York with me and tag along with me.” He had some of his military buddies that he enjoyed visiting with and dating and stuff. So he came to my apartment, because I had an apartment there, too. So he stayed in New York with me. We both had jobs. We both worked on Wall Street. My brother, I forgot what he did. He was in the





department that cleared stocks. It is a very complicated procedure. What happened is that these firms are buying and selling stocks for their customers all the time, right? So after you buy the stock, in the old days, they had to put your name on it, and you would be issued a piece of paper or certificate and stuff. He was in that department. It was called the clearing. It was almost like a bank within the firm. Like that department, had a lot of security and stuff. So he was in that department. But anyway, he had said. “I was working at a place called Tidy House.” Tidy House made paper bags, lunch bags for people. But they also did plastic and they did aluminum foil. The problem, interestingly enough, was bought in Europe. So these bags were coming in these big old rolls. It was mostly bags, but a lot of aluminum also. The other stuff would come in big rolls. And they people that manned these machines that were running off and chop it, and it actually formed the bag. And the bags would be boxed by these girls that would be sitting on the assembly line. So I worked in the shipping department there. So my brother, he eventually said, you need some clean work. You don’t need to be in that damn warehouse. But being young and just coming out of high school, hey, a job was a job. I was having fun living in New York City. What happened in my original jobs where I worked when I was in high school, I worked in the Catskills one summer. Another summer, maybe two summers, I worked out on Jersey Shore. In the Catskills, I was assistant to the sheriff. In that job, I did the things that he wanted me to do. I was really his assistant. If he wanted steaks out of the freezer, I would do that. If he wanted me to assist the pantry man in making salads, I did that. So whatever it was. But almost everybody in that





kitchen was a member of his staff that he had brought from Florida. Now, that was at the Lakehouse Hotel, and the Katz Family ran that hotel. I forgot the name of the city. It was a small town in upstate New York. It was in the Catskills. I am trying to think. Another year, we went to Asbury Park and worked where you see all that stuff torn up there from that hurricane. That was where I was, in that general vicinity there.

	D:	Where did you stay up there? You stay with family?



	H:	No, at the hotel. There on the little raggedy shack floors, like the slave quarters. [Laughter] Then when I was working in New Jersey, there was a Black family that was a friend of the cook that rent the places in the summertime to the guys that came from the South. It was in another city, but it was close by.

	D:	So they would get extra business in the summer, and that’s why they would hire all these people from Florida?

	H:	No, no, no, no. Let me start off. I thought you were hip to the ways of the world.



	D:	I am trying to figure out why it was only for the summer. Because usually when they hire people from the South, it is—

	H:	All these hotels along the boardwalk were summer places. They probably did business during the winter also, but if they had a coffee shop or they had a hotel, they probably had a few customers down. But nothing like in the summer. In the summer, people from New York City—

	D:	This is like Martha’s Vineyards-type spots, then. H:	Huh?

	D:	This is like Martha’s Vineyards-type spots.





	H:	You know, I never went to Martha’s Vineyard, interestingly enough. My nephew’s been there, but I never. But even more probably. But the reason is, because Disney didn’t exist. There were a limited number of places for vacations, particularly in the New York area. And New Yorkers in that time, they probably didn’t have money to come to Florida. You are talking about people that were living in tenements in New York. And they wanted to get out to the beach in the summertime. So they might have two weeks off, so they go down to the Jersey Shore or they would go to the Catskills. If they were Jews, they would go to the Catskill, because that was called Borscht Belt. The Jews were used to the way they would vacation in Europe. Like the way the Germans vacationed, because they aspired to be Germans. So these were German Jews for the most part that had money and stuff. They would go to the Catskills. The hotel was Kosher.

What is the guy called? The rebbe.



	D:	The rabbi, uh-huh.



	H:	No, no. The rabbe. The grand rabbe. He is over there in Brooklyn in Crown Heights.

	D:	Oh yeah.



	H:	You don’t even know about them people, okay?



	D:	He is the one who face is all over the side of a lot of the ambulances.



	H:	Yeah. These are crazy ones. These are crazy. You know they killed a young West Indian boy over there one year.

	D:	I heard about that. The riot that broke up.



	H:	It’s in the news. Go back and look at the New York Times. It was a big thing.





	D:	Were you there for that?



	H:	Oh yeah. I lived in New York. I graduated from high school in 1961. So I started in 1957 or [19]58 going to New York. My friends lived in Crown Heights. No, they didn’t. They lived across Eastern Parkway, two blocks from Crown Heights. So we knew everything that was going on in Crown Heights, because when you come out to catch the bus, you got to go out there on Eastern Parkway to get the bus or something. The bus would cross Crown Heights to get you to some place you had to go or if you are going to a West Indian’s friend’s house. You had to go through the Jewish neighborhood there. I knew the place very well. So anyway, these people would go up there and drink wine and eat kosher food and sit on their…what do you call it? Jewish music. What is it? What’s the language they speak?

	D:	Yiddish?



	H:	Yeah, Yiddish music. And good Shabbat. Good Shabbat. And drink the damn wine. Tell you a funny story about that, because you will like this here. Teddy Katz was the son of the owners of the hotel. There was Momma Katz and Pa Katz. So Teddy Katz used to come back through the kitchen. He had a wine bottle in his hand, and he would have his glass in his other hand. And he would pour himself one and drink it and say, good Shabbat. Good Shabbat. The chef said, Teddy, you need to stop that nonsense, okay? Bring some glasses and some wine back here. [Laughter] [Phone ringing] Hello? Hello? Yes, ma’am. Got it on?

	D:	It’s not anything.





[Break in recording]



	H:	Because what happened is I came home, and I had started to go to the doctor for my prostrate. Did I tell you I had prostate cancer?

	D:	Yeah, I believe I heard it.



	H:	So I start the going, and I talk to him, and I said, man, this is a serious thing.



Have you ever been checked? Have you ever had… I forgot the…the roto-rooter, when they stick the thing up your ass and do the check for—

	D:	A colonoscopy?



	H:	Yeah, the colonoscopy. Yeah, he had that. I said, well, you need to keep having that, because every two years or something you need to have it done. Because a lot of people say, oh, I am man. I am not going to let them stick…man, they can get up there and ride around for what I care. [Laughter] I want to hang out as long as I can. I said, deal is this. Once you get your social security and get your retirement, you don’t have to work. You are going to give that money to somebody else or back to the government. I said, you got to be out of your motherfucking mind. You got to stay alive so that you can spend your damn money. You worked all your life. You are so foolish you ain’t going to keep your health? Man, you got to be a sick motherfucker, because I am going to take care of my health. I am planning on hanging around as long as I can and spend as much damn money as I can. Particularly when I don’t have to work. I don’t have to work. I can work if I want to or feel like it. Anyway, he went and did that and found out he had prostate problems. His wasn’t, I don’t think, as aggressive as mine. I don’t think it was as bad, but he needed the procedure. He had the





insurance and everything. Why are you sitting on your ass? To give you an idea of how unmotivated he was, when his appointments and things first started, I made sure he got there. I got up every morning at like six o’clock to drive him from his house. He said, I don’t have gas. I said, okay, don’t worry. See, we go way back. We go back to when we were kids. Matter of fact, what I didn’t tell you and what we were talking about that all this is tied in together, the way that I got to New York was—this guy was a cook at the university, at one of the frat houses. And what he would do is take his team with him from here to work in the summertime. It was not out of the goodness of his heart, he charged you to have a seat in that car. But you didn’t have to pay the bus company. Plus, he was an employment agent also, because he secured the job for you. Okay? Al right. This guy’s name was Gene Brown, okay? But you can look in the archive. I don’t think it is in the university archives. But if you talk to Black people around here, they know him, okay? Eugene Brown. His father was a cook at the frat houses, okay? So this gentleman had been a military cook in Korea, but he probably started his tutelage under his father. So he knew the business in it. The reason that he would go north is that he made a little money at the frat house and stuff, but you didn’t make no big damn money. But if you go up north in the summertime, all the money you made, because they furnished your housing for you that was your money. I had no expenses other than to pay for the…what do you call it? Then I would go to New York City. I think you would be off like once every three weeks or something down there. I would go to New York City. So that was the only money I actually spent. And I would go to New York City to go shopping. I would





get ready for school so I could look good. I think every year in high school I was the president of my homeroom class. But I was also the vice-president of the whole class.

	D:	What school was this again?



	H:	Lincoln High School. Lincoln High School, man. So I had to look good and be sharp. Plus, I was never any lower than number six in the academic rankings of the class. So be smart, look sharp, be sharp.

	D:	Where there other students at Lincoln that had you deal that you had? I mean not necessarily going to New York, but would they travel and work over the summer in some other places?

	H:	No, no. Now I need to go back further, because I got to tell you more. I was a very lucky young man. My mother and father divorced when I was about twelve years old, I think, or thirteen years old. My mother, by her working here at the University of Florida, met a lot of people, and she met a professor here that was Mr. M.H. Johnson, Mack Houston Johnson. He was a professor here. So he and Mr. Johnson talked to my mother and asked her, by the way he was a Jewish fellow, too, asked her if she would be willing to work the weekends and sometime in the afternoon at his house to help his wife since she was a teacher also and didn’t have a lot of time. And of course, she said yes. She come out to take care of the kids when they had to go out of town or something on the weekends or stuff. She said of course. So as I was growing up, Mr. Johnson and I would talk from time to time. And he said, Matt, you know, I could use you at my house to do a little work around the house like mowing lawns and things like that. And you





would be giving a little money to the family also. He said, when you work, you have to give fifty percent of your money to your mother. You can’t take all that money and have it for yourself. I said, well, that sounds like a good deal. He was more than that. He was more like a mentor. He really taught me, I don’t want to say everything I knew, but he taught me many of the skills and the way to think about problem-solving. Then he was always in my corner. And by that, I mean this. If I was trying to do something, and I had raised fifty percent of the money. Let’s say I wanted to go to Boy Scouts Summer Camp. He said, “Man, how much money do you have? How much is it? Oh, it’s six hundred dollars for two weeks.” He say, “You pay three.” Said, “I want to know what you have in the bank,” because he made me save my money, too. He said, “I don’t want to know how much you got in the bank. If it cost six hundred, three hundred is on me and three hundred is on you.” He said, “Is that a deal? Is that fair?” I said, “I love it.” But that’s the kind of man he was. Now, I should give you a little bit of background on this gentleman. This gentleman had been in World War II, and he was a lieutenant commander of the submarine. I know a little about what he did, because we would chat from time to time, but he would go behind enemy lines and pick up people. Like important people that might be a leader of a country or somebody that had gotten trapped behind the lines like an American that for whatever reason. Could have been on an airplane and crashed or something or another. Have a rendezvous and stuff and pick up people. Needless to say, he was a very smart man. But he was a teacher of architecture here at the University of Florida. And his wife taught elementary school, and they met here at





the University of Florida. This gentleman designed his own house. I don’t know if he did the actual building, but he oversaw all the construction of it. His house is not too far from here. Beautiful home for the time. He was influenced by Frank Lloyd Wright. You can tell when you look at the house. So I worked for him, and he was, shall I say, the antithesis of the racist redneck cracker. Would that be the right one? He is the opposite. So he made sure that…he despised the system of segregation and what was being done to Black people in this area. Something interesting, I never thought about whether I was going to go to college. I just assumed I was probably going to go to college. But to give you an example, I would come back say Thanksgiving. Be out of school and I would come back home, and I would work for him. This is when I was in college. I am skipping ahead now. Let’s say for instance, I saved enough money to have half the tuition. He said, “What kind of expenses do you have this term?” I said, “Well, tuition is like seven hundred and fifty dollars.” He said, “Do you have that?” I said, “Yeah, I have that.” He said, “Do you have any lab fees?” He said, “Do you have clothing money? How is your book money?” I was the kind of person, I never asked for anything. I just tried my best to make. And I did from high school until today, I made all of my money. I never got any money from my family, anything. So I would say, I do need those. He said, “How much do you think that is? Just give me an estimate. A rough estimate.” I said, “Maybe three hundred.” He said, “I am writing you a check for six hundred and seventy-five dollars. Is that enough?” I said, “That is. That is fine.” He said, “Now in addition to that, when you run out of money, you know my phone number. Call the house.” I never would call,





because I figure I could do it myself. So when he would see me again, he would say, “Let’s sit down and look at your finances. How are things going?” If he thought I needed some money, he would just write a check. Then from time to time, he would just have a check waiting for me when he saw me, when I came to town. Because I would always call and say, “I am available to do some work. Come on over.” Not only did he do that, but we sat down many a day and had lunch together, because he was a busy man. He worked for Art Campbell, who was a local architect that had his own firm. So in addition to him teaching at the university, he did consulting on the outside. He would small projects like houses he designing for maybe faculty members and stuff like that. So he was a very busy man. But often he would come home to have lunch with me and his son.

Eventually, his son became the person I had to mentor. Because he said, “I don’t have time for my son.” He said, “But I trained you. So your job and part of what you are being paid for is to train my son.” Again, let me skip ahead, because this story gets even more interesting. His son just retired from a university up in North Carolina. He was the vice-president of the university. Yeah. His son is named Mack Johnson. Mack Houston Johnson. By the way, they are related to Sam Houston, the family is. Roanoke College is where he was a vice-president. They got him on some kind of special something or other, because I think he had a little illness or something. He is still being paid, but he is retired technically now. That’s the relationship that grew out of that family, with that family. I should tell you something about the wife. The wife was the first elementary teacher in Alachua County to have a Ph.D. Her name was Mrs. Johnson. I am trying to think





of what her first name was. I can’t think of her first name. The interesting thing about this family is he was Jewish, but the wife wasn’t. The wife was from the South. She had gone to school, I believe, in Georgia someplace. I forgot the name. It was a small teacher’s college up there somewhere that she had gone to school. So she was much more mentally in the state of mind of the Southern woman, but she made a good catch. Because her husband was a hard worker, and he made sure that if she wanted to do something, she got it. She did it. So she needed the time and everything to go to school and get the Ph.D., he encouraged her to get the PhD. He encouraged all the kids in my family and me to go to college. Not by just word, but by deeds. I was the only one that financially they took care of, because they viewed almost like one of their sons, because I worked for them. So they knew me. They knew me intimately. We would sit down and talk about values. We would sit down and talk about how you plan. We would talk about how you achieve goals, the purpose of goals. Why would we talk about that? I got to give you the names of two, three other people. Dr. J.C. Rawls was another mentor. J.C. Rawls. He was my teacher. He was my mother’s classmate. He was also the assistant principal of the school. John Dukes was my neighbor. He was the principal. He was a math teacher. I never had him as a teacher, but he was the sponsor for my homeroom class. So I got to know him very well. He is another good person that gave good advice. Dr.

Rawls and I were very close, because he had been my mother’s classmate. There is one other person. Eugene Wheaton. Eugene Wheaton was my scout





master. He was from Jacksonville, Florida. And he was a shoe cobbler. He had the only place that fixed shoes here in Gainesville for a long time.

	D:	Was that in Fifth Avenue? H:	No.

	D:	It was downtown?



	H:	That’s Gilbert. That’s Oscar Gilbert. This was the one downtown. Down there in that area where they be selling produce and stuff today. I think his shop is where the office that takes care of voter’s registration and stuff. I think his shop was right in there, but I think they have torn it down and changed it around. But anyway, he was down there. Oscar Gilbert was a local guy from Gainesville, but he was an older man, and I think went out of business. They may have been in business at the same time, but he wasn’t competitive with Wheaton. Because Wheaton’s business, he was in a business area where his clientele was White.

When Oscar Gilbert, more or less, catered to a Black clientele. But the White students used to frequent Fifth Avenue, so he would get students also. I don’t know what other places were doing shoes. The White person that was in business, I am sure he was getting a lot of their customers. But I imagine that Wheaton, by the time he came along, the White people didn’t want to do the shoe business even though it paid well. Also, they didn’t have the skills, because even now, people I find do the best in the shoe business are Hispanics. But the reason for that is, cause my travels in Mexico, they work with leather all the time in Mexico. Where I live out in California, all the shoe cobblers are Hispanic. So anyway—





	D:	Were you around Lincoln when they had the protests for the closing?



	H:	No, I graduated in [19]61. My class was the first class that left Lincoln. That went all the way through—what do you call it? I am trying to think. Did we go through all our years there? I think we went through all our years. But my class was the first class to graduate from Lincoln High School, class of [19]61. But I think we went through all our years, and there were other people that may have graduated before. I would have to go back and look. But I know we were the first in something. I don’t know if you know the history. Do you know the history of why they built the Lincoln over there?

	D:	I know some of it, but it would be good to rehash it, yeah.



	H:	Let me give you a little background on it, because it is interesting. Lincoln was part of a plan that the White fathers of the city had a plan for the Black folks. And the plan was to get us out of northwest and put us all over there in northeast.

Most interesting thing is the most prominent Black people had no interest in their plan at all. They knew the plan. I don’t know how they knew the plan, but they knew the plan. And they had no interest in it. The houses were like ranch-style houses. Beautiful houses and homes that they built over there. Dr. Banks would be an example. Judge Mickle’s house would be another example. Nice homes, usually two bedroom stone buildings. These other houses were wood. Almost all of them were woods. If you go back in the Fifth Avenue area and look at the houses over there, but you had the Glovers. You had the Gills. You had the Whites. You had all the teachers practically. You know, prominent, very prominent people. The Gills and Glovers, they owned a business over there.





They sold dried good, I think, mostly to the Black community. Mrs. Glover was a teacher, but she was also a teacher in the public school, but she taught music privately. She was much more well-known for that. And the Gills and Glovers, I believe, they were related through marriage also. Mrs. Glover lived in the back, I think, up over the garage if I am not mistaken. And Mrs. Gill may have been her sister. I am not sure. That was the relationship there. Right in front of them was Walter Bartman, the barbecue grill. Dancehall was on the top floor of the building. The building is still there. That big old brick building you see there. There are now on the bottom. Walter Bartman had a store that sold sodas and things like that, because alcohol was illegal, so you couldn’t sell alcohol, and sandwiches. But right to there, he had a barbecue stand that was outside, which is where he probably really made his money. The corner house was his house. And across the street, Reverend White, who also owned White and Jones Funeral Home, lived there. The people who lived in the front of Walter Bartman were the Turnipseeds. The Turnipseeds’ daughter lived in New York, who I met also. I probably know her and met her here, but I got to know her much better in New York. They lived in Harlem. Coming down that street, my scoutmaster lived. Well, he married—I can’t think of the lady’s name now, but she was an RN. She was a registered nurse. Mr. Polk’s daughter, I think he only had one daughter, okay?

And I forgot what kind of work he did. Very nice man, Mr. Polk. My scoutmaster was able to secure, for Walter Bartman or somebody, the use of the back of that building for our den for the scouts and the troupe headquarters. So we had a facility that was ours. That was dedicated. Nobody else used it. It was just ours.





And then we had a wood next to it, so we could practice and all kind of stuff. Then we were centrally located. And his house was right across the street, so he could go home and leave us in the building to do stuff and then come back and check on us and stuff. The person that lived in the next house down was very important, because that was the Parkers. Richard Parker who was a teacher, a music teacher, who was trained by Miller. He had been this teacher. I forgot his first name, but Mr. Miller was a band director at Lincoln High School. Mr. Parker was a student. But all these people were disciples of Dr. Foster from Florida A&M. So that’s the network. A lot of our public school teachers were Florida A&M graduates, not all of them. Some of them came from BCC. Others were like North Carolina and places like that. But if you look at most of those teachers, they have gone to Black colleges and universities. A lot of them went to Indiana in the summertime and went to Columbia University in New York. As a matter of fact, one of the person—I don’t think he was ever a teacher here. He was teacher at Florida A&M. Was my brother-in-law Rafa London. Rafa London was probably the best. He was definitely like top musicians in the state of Florida on the woodwind, basically a clarinet, in the state of Florida. He was a teacher at Florida A&M later on. Jackson Crawford, who was one of my classmates who is an orchestra leaders in Germany now or in Europe I should say and who was my contemporary and my classmate, also trained under my brother-in-law. So it’s a network here of all these relationships, Black and minority stuff. Turned out to be a small world. My brother-in-law had a lot of bands and things over the years, but he was also a member of the Baltimore—what’s it called?





D:   Not the symphony orchestra?



H:   Yeah, the Symphony Orchestra of Baltimore for a number of years. Then he had a bunch of other bands and things in addition to that. The family, of course, lived in Baltimore. That’s that connection.

D:   Hey! [Laughter]



	H:	Something I forgot about, this is probably interesting. My godmother was Ms.



Fannie Thomas. We lived at 830 NW 5th Avenue after I got up some age. But my godmother’s house was right behind us on 6th Avenue. Or was it 5th Avenue?

Yeah. 5th Avenue was also known as Seminary Lane, but my godmother lived back there behind us. And I spent a lot of time with my godparents, Fannie Thomas and Mr. Boyd was his name, but I can’t think of what his real name was. But I didn’t know this at the time, but my godmother’s sister was not Charles, but Charles’s father, Chestnut’s sister. Yeah.

	D:	Ryan was just asking the same thing here. It’s all the way back.



	H:	Let me just take a minute and call this girl. I will tell her that I am going to come and cash this check, because that is what he was calling me for.

	D:	All right. So we will come back. [Break in recording]

	H:	Did you turn it back on? D:	Yeah.

	H:	I forgot where I was. Oh, I was telling you about my godmother and the connection there. Now, I am really lost, because I don’t know where we were.





	D:	We had just finished. You were talking about the Boy Scouts. Then we talked about some of the people that lived in the neighborhood.

	H:	Oh, I was talking about these people who had had an influence on my life. It was a number of them. What I mentioned were the people that were most prominent. This is the reason I mentioned my godparents. Is that they had a lot of influence in my youth. Her husband had a good job. I think her husband was a mail carrier. This probably was a result of World War II where they got these jobs, because Black people didn’t generally have good jobs like that. I should mention there’s another man that is important also. Not to me, but he lived in the neighborhood. His name was Mr. Chiles. Do you know who Mr. Chiles was?

	D:	I have heard that name before.



	H:	Mr. Chiles was the person that wrote the Black column in Gainesville Sun. He lived right down the street from Fannie Thomas. Oh, I was trying to tie all that in for you. I was telling you about northwest, how all these people were a member of a larger community. So when they started that urban removal project, that these people didn’t fall for it. Little Clara, who was the lady who ran the beauty parlor. But there was another beauty parlor also, Kindle. Kindle had a beauty parlor. So those places were very important, because that’s where people went and talked, in the beauty parlor. Reverend Walker, he had a barber shop down there on Fifth Avenue. That’s where the men met. And again, that was one of those places where information exchanged hands and stuff. Barber shop was very, very important, okay? That is where young men were introduced into adult





conversations. And the BS went out the damn window. Also, while you were in there getting a haircut, you were getting schooled.

	D:	Like lessons.



	H:	And like I said, it was Reverend Walker, who was a minister, that ran the barber shop. So it wasn’t going to be about no okie-dokie. It was going to be straight-up. By the way, this was another thing that was interesting. Reverend Walker’s original barber shop was right there where Safety Cab is located now. That was in front of a theatre. And Safety Cab was on one side of the entrance to the theatre, and Reverend Walker’s barber shop was on the other side. They shared this pavement in the front, because the rest of the stuff wasn’t even paved. It was like dirt. That was the Rose Theatre. That was the original Rose Theatre, okay? I wonder if that was what it was called. I think it was what it was called, the Rose Theatre. They laid on subsequently and moved down the street. It was about a half a block from the Old MacCommon Church. The front of it you couldn’t tell.

But after you went in it, you realized what it was. It was one of these building from the military apparently that I guess they had bought our something, but it was a semicircle. The front of it looked like a regular building.

	D:	From like Camp Blanding or something?



	H:	Yeah. Yeah, looked like they were important. Surplus from Camp Blanding. And this Rose guy obviously was a Jew that had some money and hooked it up.

Because the White folk wasn’t going to let you come in down there. But I think at one time, the Black people used to sit up on the balcony of the theatre down there on University Avenue. I am not sure. Yeah, you have to ask somebody who





also knew. It may not have been the Florida Theatre at that time. May have been another theatre, but I have a hunch that something like that may have gone on. I shouldn’t say this, but they probably got tired of the Black folk throwing paper and pissing down on them. [Laughter] Say, “We got to get them out of here!”

	D:	I was wondering about that, because we were to try to talk to Reverend Orien Green about Safety Cab. Because we have heard things about Safety Cab, but we don’t know details about it or anything in general.

	H:	The person you want to talk to is Mr. Turner. He is the only driver that is left, if I am not mistaken. Either he is the owner. He might be the owner. But he had a brother named or father named Edel Turner who was a driver during those days.

	D:	And do you know what his name was? H:	Who?

	D:	His first name Turner?



	H:	I don’t know. But no, if you go down to Safety Cab and just say Turner, they will know who you are talking about, because he is the one who is still living. Now let me give you a back way to get into that information, Mr. Welch. The older Mr.

Welch and the younger Mr. Welch knows a lot about Safety Cab. The younger Mr. Welch might even know more than the older Mr. Welch, because my house was three blocks from Safety Cab. And Mr. Welch used to visit with me when I was a kid. And we would visit Safety Cab, because we knew all the drivers. And Safety Cabs primary business was probably bringing people to the University of Florida to work. But they drove a lot of White people also. As a matter of fact, they were the only cab company around for a long time. Because, of course,





driving a taxi was below the dignity of the White man. Later on, they realized there was money there. So they formed some of these White cab companies. But Safety Cab was very propped, and they had some kind of radio system also. And I think, if I am not mistaken, a lot of the people that worked for Safety Cab were veterans from World War II. If you start talking to people, I think you will find out they were veterans. Which means they had a little cushion, plus they had maybe GI benefit where they could get a car. Because just getting a car was no easy thing for a Black man. As a matter of fact, my father was a mechanic, and I could tell you for a fact that most of the cars that Black people drove was jalopies.

There were very few Black people that could go down to [inaudible], which was the Ford dealership downtown, and buy a brand new Ford. You could count them on one hand. And I could tell you where it started. The Chestnuts, the Whites.

Reverend White, by the way, he had a brand new Lincoln, but it was before they had that beautiful Lincoln. It was a Black car. It looked like a hearse also. It was a Lincoln. I am trying to think who else. Oh, the minister. Minister Mann of Mt.

Carmel. Of course, he would get the new ride, whatever it was. There was a group of people called the Bannisters. They happened to room at my godmother’s house. Reverend Bannister, that is a person that you ought to look up the name. Gaylord’s son has probably got a lot of articles on him. Now his brother is probably still living. He would be up in age now. His name is Sam Bannister. But the original Reverend Bannister, he was something like one of these Elmer Gantry characters. I knew them very well. They drove Chryslers.

People didn’t drive Chryslers like the Chryslers of New York. But they had brand





new Chryslers. And I believe they came out of Indiana or something. Sam Bannister is very well-known for his photography. He took pictures of kids in school. He took pictures of weddings. I am sure he took pictures for the Gainesville Sun also. A very nice person also. All the Bannisters, very nice people. And I am going to stop here. I can come back after lunch. Give me your number, and I will buzz you and see if it’s okay. And if not… At TV and stuff. So Sergeant Lewis would come in. They have his dinner or something. And they had like a lady that was like a maid at his house. And he would say, oh, you fellas are braying along. Get a good chuckle. He would always be chewing on a cigar. He had been in the military over at Camp Blanding, but he was a military policeman. We would say, yeah, we have been doing the right thing. Blah, blah, blah. He would say, if you are not, I will see it, and I will put these damn cuffs on your ass just as fast as would anybody. Something like that. You are going into the kitchen and needed something of it. Sometimes he might come in and join us for a while. Those were the kinds of influences that were on us all the time. Wanting to be a criminal just wasn’t a thing that happened. His wife, Ms. Louisa, she worked at Haines’ Grocery Store. There was Fisher Meat Market down there on Fifth Avenue, and there was Haines’ Grocery Store. Mr. Haines was an Irishman. Mr. Fisher was a Jew. So those were the kinds of influences. So we would go in the grocery store, and Ms. Louisa would be there. So she would be checking us out to see if we are doing the right thing and stuff. But you never were that far away from the supervision, and people that would look out for you. That they would make sure your parents know if you were doing something wrong. So it was like





a small world in one way, but in another way, we had a lot of freedom. But you had to be about doing the right thing.

	D:	All right. This was Justin Dunnavant interviewing Mr. Matthis Harris Jr. Today is June 11, 2014. And he is probably willing to do another interview with us later on today with us. He just had to step out.

[Break in recording]



	H:	Place is up in North Florida, mostly in the Panhandle. And the reason that it was controlled by them is that these guys, they were being selected over and over to be there. So they were the ones with lots of time there. So they would be the committee heads. That is the reason that every place else was being progressive and stuff, but Florida was ass-backwards. I think the first communist they had…you might want to close that door. They might not want to hear.

	M:	They won’t mind. Is that more coffee over there for them? D:	Yeah.

	M:	I am going to get some. D:	I just made some.

	M:	Oh okay.



	D:	Yeah, you can get it if you want.



	M:	All right. All right. So you talked about Charlie Johnson as one of those guys, right? In the Pork Chop Gang?

	H:	I think so. I think so. But when you look it up in Florida, you will find that there is a whole bunch of there. It’s not a couple of them.

	M:	No, because he had the Johns Committee and all of that other—





	H:	Well, that had to do with gayness. Yeah, that was the Johns Committee. And he was rooting out gays in the faculty, if I am not mistaken. But I think that was a little before my time, but I do remember it though.

	M:	Oh, so the Pork Chop Gang was still going on after that. Is that what you are saying?

	H:	Do you know when they came up with that law about re-apportionment? That is when they lost power. Because what it is, that they would decide who is going to be the head of the various committees and things. They would decide the size of it. South Florida had no influence at all in the state of Florida. It was all up here in North Florida. And I don’t even think Gainesville was in it in a big way, because these are too educated people here. They want them farmers and cattlemen and stuff like that, tree farmers. The most ignorant person you can find. That would be the appropriate person to make the decisions. Like all these prisons and psychiatric places, you think they are there by accident? No, because that is where the real influence was. That’s why they built them there. Those boys said, “I need that in my county.” And the others said, “If you got that, I need this in my county.” So if you look at where at the prisons and stuff are located, they had nothing but empty land. They could have built a whole bunch of them down in South Florida. There is nothing but empty land down there. They were wondering how they can take care of their constituents. Do you remember the big fight that they had not long ago? It was something where they were going to close or merge some of the crazy houses or either the prisons. Man, they had a big fight about that.





	D:	I heard something about that. Is that when they were moving kids into adult penitentiary?

	H:	No, it had to do with them downsizing. Because they don’t have the number of prisoners that they used to have. It could have been something like the mental institution, but I think it was the prison though. So a big fight, it was a big fight, because that’s in my backyard. My people need jobs. If you go and look at a lot of prisoners and stuff, actual statistics and numbers and things, a lot of them are from South Florida. The population. New York State has the same thing, you know that right?

	D:	Yeah, most of the people in New York City in the rural—



	H:	Yeah, you got to go upstate. The same thing. The reason is like that is because the same reason. We got to take care of our people up in these little small communities. They don’t have no work. Anyway, enough of this. We are going to get all these Puerto Rican and Black folk from New York City for them to take care of and beat the hell out of. [Laughter]

	M:	I grabbed some coffee.



	H:	Yeah and that’s exactly what they did. I forgot what we were talking about when I left.

	D:	We were trying to pick up on San Francisco. H:	Oh okay.

	D:	San Francisco State and the whole Ethnic Studies movement.



	H:	Yeah. I didn’t know anything, I had heard his name, but I didn’t know anything about Dr. Here until I got to San Francisco State. I don’t know how many months





I had been in the city, but I had an interesting incident that happened. I had met a guy—by the way, I don’t know what his name, was one of my student. The movie star, the Black guy.

D:   Danny Glover?



	H:	Danny Glover was one of my students. Yeah, because he was at San Francisco State. He was the head of the Black Student Union. In fact, he was the head of the student part of the ethnic studies department. The Indians were lame as hell. Not the Indians from India. American Indians, okay? They wasn’t about fighting for nothing. The Asians, like you said, like demonstration. They would start shaking and running. The Hispanics were the only ones that we could actually depend on, a little bit, but they weren’t reliable. So when it came like really doing stuff around the university and making things happen, Black Student Union is what you had to depend on. There were actual numbers. There was a larger percentage of Black students than there were the other ones. Like I said, the Indians and Asians, they made themselves very scarce offer. They wanted to get their portion of the money. Since we had a fractional way that we did the money. So when it come time for money, they are there. But when it come time to do something to keep the money flowing, they are vanishing. I never have seen anything like it in my life.

	D:	So what are some of the things that happened on campus during that time?



	H:	I think most of the life was in the city, but let me tell you what I saw from a teacher’s perspective. I had never seen such lazy-ass students in all my life, Black and White students and Asian students and so forth. The reason I say that





is you would give them an assignment or something, they would come in with a million excuses why they couldn’t do it. Then I realized at that time, because I had gone to school in the east. At that time, I hadn’t gone to school in the west. San Francisco, California period, was a laidback place. But San Francisco was extremely laid back. [Laughter] I knew people that were doping up all the time. I am sure that a lot of my students were into that also. What I was going to tell you about how I got the job? I don’t remember how I met Peter. There was a guy named Peter Persley. He was a psychology major at San Francisco State University. He was on the faculty. He was teaching, and he was a student there. So I don’t know if he was working toward his Master’s or what he was doing at the time. They had an opening in the ethnic studies department. He said, “You need to go out there and interview for it. You are qualified for the job.” So he arranged everything, and when I interviewed, boom. I got the job just like that. So that is how I got involved with the university. But I had just finished my Master’s that summer. So I submitted the paperwork and everything, got the job. And that was another fascinating experience. Being there in the middle after the strike.

Then in the midst of these departments, because you would have departmental meetings, and then you would have the whole department. All the different ethnic studies department. You would have meetings with them. When I graduated from college, as an undergraduate, I joined VISTA. So I went through training at the Baltimore Training Center for Office of Economic Opportunity. I think it was called the VISTA Training Center. Yeah, that was VISTAs, but it came out of OEO though. I did a lot of training right there at that center. Then you had to go out





and do something like internship. So they sent me down to rural Maryland. Do you know anything about Maryland?

	D:	I am from Maryland. [Laughter] That’s why I am trying to figure out how rural you go. Maryland can get real rural.

	H:	Do you know anything about Maryland?



	M:	Well, a little. I am from Pennsylvania. It gets good. It gets real good. What part are you from?

	D:	I am from Frederick.



	H:	I believe I was in Frederick. D:	It is near Thurmont.

	H:	No, no. There was three places that were together down there. They are right on the water.

	D:	Eastern Shore? Annapolis-area?



	H:	Oh no. That’s urban, man. I was at a rural CAT. Community Action Agency. I did exactly the same thing Earl Perlman did. I was an organizer. But remember that I was telling you that I did all this stuff. Well, you know about this stuff that Ron in Gainesville and then the stuff up in Tallahassee that gone done as an undergraduate. It started in my first year doing that stuff. So anyway, Laponta?

Does that sound right?



	D:	It could be.



	H:	Charles County.



	D:	Charles County, okay.





	H:	It was a tri-county CAT. It was three counties that the CAT agency was responsible for. I want to tell you what the area was. This is the old slavery area of Maryland. Plantations and stuff. [Laughter] So that’s where we did our training. And they had all the remnants of slavery stuff still there, man. And in the minds of the people, they were still crazy. And of course, like most of the people that are recipients of our services were the Black folk. But that was just for training. I mean we worked there, but we had hands-on experience there. But when I left there and when everybody left, they were assigned to assignments in various places. I don’t know where everybody went, but I went to Detroit, Michigan. What did they have in Detroit?

	D:	A lot of stuff.



	H:	The riots.[Laughter]



	D:	So you were around for that.



	H:	This is what I am telling you. I arrived at places in inauspicious times. D:	This sounds like Forrest Gump. [Laughter]

	M:	Did you arrive there right during the riots?



	H:	No, just before. Just before the riots. And funny thing is, my family has a house in Nassau County in New York. So I was out there, Jones Beach, when everything took off. I don’t know if I come home on a vacation or what it was, but I had maybe a weekend off. I used to catch these low-rate flights, and I would go everywhere when I was in college. And they had student rates also then. Like where airlines give students a discount. So I would be all over the place. So anyway, I went home. I was out there on Jones Beach laying out. And I guess





when I got home, that there was a phone call that the…VISTA had called and said that I needed to return to Detroit as soon as possible, because there were riots there.

	D:	Like, “Why I got to return to place with riots?” [Laughter]



	H:	Because we need you because. At that time being a volunteer, you are working for the government, and they say return. So you get your ass on the next plane smoking and get the hell on back there, right? And I don’t think that anybody thought that this was going to be a big thing when it broke out. I think people thought it was going to last maybe a short time. So what they needed us for was things like making sure that pregnant women would get their milk for the babies and stuff and baby food. To go into places and help to quell things. And you got to remember that the National Guard hadn’t come in that time. They were dispatching the National Guard. Most people there, they were like me. We didn’t really know the parameters of the situation, because it was developing. Basically what happened, are you familiar with what happened?

	D:	About the Detroit Riots? H:	Yeah.

	D:	Like generally. I know generally.



	H:	How about you? Do you know anything about? M:	I mean some, yeah.

	H:	What was happing was people throwing Molotov cocktails and firing up places.



Then they sent the National Guard. The National Guard is about as crazy as they come. I don’t know where they came from, but they had crazy White people in





Michigan, so it could have been the Michigan National Guard. And these were guys that were in offices or construction guys or something during the week. They are weekend warriors, right? And they got the chance to aim their rifles at some Black folk boys and shoot. Oh Lord, they are happy to get rid of these cockroaches. I don’t know how long they stayed there, but they didn’t stay there for very long. They had to send in the regular Army, because these guys were crazy. They didn’t realize. They were killing people. They were just shooting up through buildings and everything. They are just running out there shooting. So anyway, that was what was going on there. And it was funny, because I went out and talked to the soldiers, and I talked with the National Guard. And I noticed something very interesting in how different they were. The regular Army guys, they would give the kids their weapon and let them play with it and stick flowers in it and all kind of stuff. These are guys, they were confident, and they knew what they were doing. But these other dudes, they saw you like turkeys or something. They got to turkey hunt with a goddamn heavy rifle like an M1 or M16 or something. So you know this was like Vietnam War time, too. I think we were in it in that time. I am not sure exactly where we were. That ended up being the interesting experience, because VISTA had pulled me out of Detroit. I was working for Protestant Community Services. Somebody in the agency was making racist remarks about me. Let me tell you what I was doing, because my job was an interesting job. That thing I told you about, that was like one of those specials assignment we would get to help with pacification. Help with the city, the charities, and stuff like that. To do stuff. My assignment was to replace what was





called a Super VISTA. A Super VISTA was one of those people who got some kind of award for being on the money. I never met him. I don’t even remember his name. But what happened is that he designed a program to repair homes of people in urban Detroit. They were having a housing problem there. The housing stock was going down, but it wasn’t so bad that it had to be destroyed. You got to remember the economy of Detroit was doing well. The economy was kicking all along. I was assigned to this Mexican-American section of the city, and it is just before you go over the bridge to go into Canada. It is right up under the bridge there. I saw it on television not long ago again. I forget the name of it. But it was to renovate home. The people have to put up the loan money, but there was grants from either government. It may have been like a partial thing. They could have got loans that part could be forgiven or something. My job was the supervisor of that project. And my hardest part of my job was going out and recruiting people to get work done on their house. So that’s not difficult at all, because everybody wanted to have some work done. But you got to tell them the qualification. You need this many thousand dollars. And they had contracted Protestant Community Services had a contract to do the work. He was using young people who were being paid with something like Job Corps money. But a fund of money, some kind of Corps something. I forgot what it was. You had tri- part system that this Super VISTA designed, which was brilliant when you think about it. Because he was getting a community service done. He was furnishing experience to these kids where they were in training while they were renovating these homes and stuff. So after a certain amount of time, they could probably go





and get a job working with a contractor building or repairing homes. So that was my primary job. Well, the people that I came out with to Detroit, it was a group of people. I think I was the only Black one there. And one girl was from a really nice suburb, because we went and stayed in her house. Royal Oak I think it was, but it was a lovely suburb there in Detroit. Then there was other White kids from other places. There was a suburb that they did that the Pope went to. Does anybody know the name of it? Polish Pope. Hamtramck. Hamtramck was a city within a city. So within the city of Detroit, there was this Polish suburb. I think they had carved the city out. I never looked at the history of it, but apparent there was a carve out in the city of Detroit. When you think of Polacks, what they were doing, it was probably through the church, because they are Catholic, so they wanted to have control of everything in the community. And there was another one called Highland Park, and I don’t know the difference between the two of them. But that was a carve out also. So if you were to look at a map in the [19]70s in Detroit, you see these two separate cities, I don’t know if they were cities or villages, within the city of Detroit. And they had definite geographical boundaries and things, but they were a part of the city of Detroit. So the kids in Hamtramck, they hated the Black kids. They wanted to kill them. They integrated the schools, and they were trying to run them out of there and all kinds of crazy stuff going on. So the White kids in VISTA, they said, the people I was working with, “Let’s see if we can’t have some integration in this community.” We’ll have dances and things on the weekends, and we will be the sponsors and the chaperones to get the kids. See, I don’t know what everybody else was doing.





Different people had different projects. That may have been one of the goals of one of the projects where they were working with the school district to help the kids get to know each other. So they asked me, they said, “Matt, could you volunteer and come over and help us chaperone the dance and stuff?” They told me what the goals and stuff were. That was another one of the projects I was involved with. What happened is that if you were at the Baltimore training center, you established friendships and relationships with other VISTAs. And if you were lucky enough to go out, and you guys were still together. It was natural that you would work together like the fingers on your hand. So that is what you did. That was a fascinating project, because I didn’t understand the kind of hate that they had.

[Laughter]



	H:	But we made some progress. We made some progress there. But I enjoyed Detroit. And I had a room. I don’t even know how I got the room. VISTA may have arranged it for me. But I had room with a guy who worked at the Cadillac plant where he built Cadillacs. He was an hourly employee there. They must have been making a hell of a lot of Cadillacs there, because that guy has some big checks. He would be working overtime and everything. And the people were very nice to me. So he would take me out and stuff from time to time. Motown was right there in the general area where I was. Like the old building, the original studio, which was in a house. Nobody lived in the house, but it was an office. It was on, I think, Grand Boulevard. Grand Boulevard was this funny street. You know how most places the streets run north and south. Grand Boulevard was like





a half-moon. It ran all the way around the city. It was exactly what they say, a grand boulevard. I think the studio was on Grand Boulevard if I am not mistaken. You can see that Detroit was really a fantastic city. I am not one that likes the Midwest at all, but it was a fantastic city at one time. Just looking at the old houses that were actually in the city of Detroit, they were all wood. There was no brick anything. That why when they started throwing the Molotov cocktails and stuff, everything just went up in flames. And then Midwest, if I am not mistaken, it is either two or three-story buildings for the most part. One family owned the bottom floor, another family owned the middle, and one on the top. A lot of the building were like that. Big houses and stuff. And spacious. People had yards.

They had backyards. The Midwest was different from the east where everything was like this here, straight up. You had space and stuff. Sure, very nice. And I was enjoying myself there in Detroit. And then when the contractor told me what was going on, and he said, “Don’t say nothing about it. Because it was my sponsoring agency was where this stuff was coming from.” “We don’t know where this smart nigger comes from or something like that.” I think that I called the headquarters in Washington. This was a Black guy. Mr. McGee was his name, by the way. I never even thought about this guy’s name until today, because it came right up. He talked to the people in Washington and told them what the Protestant Community Service was doing. They said, “Harris, you are out of there.” They said, “We are going to send you back to the VISTA training center in Baltimore.” Which was fine, because that is where my sister and her husband live and my nieces and nephews live there also.





[Laughter]



	H:	They live there in the suburbs. You know where the Social Security Building is? D:	No, I don’t know Baltimore too well.

	H:	You don’t know about…I thought you live in Maryland.



	D:	Yeah, I lived in Frederick, Maryland up north. My brother lives in Baltimore now. H:	Well anyways, this is on Social Security Boulevard, which is right off of the

Beltway in the county. It is not in the city. They had a lovely place there. So I was happy it is off. Go back to the training center. I don’t know what happened, but while I was in the training center, I got offered another job as an analyst for Temple University with the Office of Economic Opportunity. They had a grant at Temple. Their job was to go out and monitor and train the VISTA workers and then write reports that had to go to Washington. So again, I hit the jackpot.

Something that I wanted to do, enjoyed doing. I stayed there. I don’t know how long I stayed there. It is in the résumé, but the dates might be approximation there. I stayed there for maybe a year or so. While I was there, I met a guy named Eugene Pasymowski. This is a Polish guy. Gene was one of the smartest people I ever met. Did you guys ever see a picture of the guy who was Secretary of State from Ford Motor Company in the Kennedy Administration?

	D:	I don’t know.



	H:	Pull him up.



	D:	It was not Dean Rusk. It was…I got to see his face. He had it parted down the middle. He was formerly the president of Ford Motor Company. This was Kennedy’s Secretary of Defense.





	M:	Robert McNamara?



	H:	Robert McNamara, okay? This guy looked like Robert McNamara. Hair was parted that way. You looked at the dude, you figured this dude…see how I did it fun? You would have thought that this dude was son. He was one of the analysts there also. We were called Associate…what do you call it? I am trying to think.

Not associate professor, but associate something or another. Associate trainers, because we were training people doing this other work. But what is interesting is if we were going to go to a site, one of the analysts might accompany us from Washington for OEO. There are the numbers guys to see how the money is spent just like what is going on with the Veteran’s Administration now. These were boys that looked at everything, too. If you are from Washington or from Temple, they didn’t know the difference. Then what we would do is work as a team and see if things are going well. The analysts along with us might decide these guys need more training. And we might write up a training plan. And then Temple was charged with doing the training. The analyst might come back up a couple of days and look at what we are doing and stuff and make suggestions about how we should do it. Or if they didn’t like it, another type of training, whatever. So anyway, that's what I did. Now while I was there, Eugene Pasymowski. By the way, he is on the internet. He has a business in Philadelphia. I haven’t seen the dude, but I was looking on the internet one day, and I put his name, came up exactly. What he did was, he got his MA at Antioch. This is the guy that sent me to Antioch. Do you know anything about the Bilderberg Meeting?





	D:	Unh-uh.



	H:	You don’t know the Bilderberg? Clinton, I just found out, was involved with Bilderberg. The guy that used to be the head, not the NAACP…what was one of those other organizations? CORE. Who was the Black guy? Vernon Jordan.

Vernon Jordan was involved was involved with the Bilderberg. I didn’t know that, but he introduced Clinton to the Bilderberg. Bilderberg is a group of…sometimes it’s titular heads. Sometimes it’s heads of state. Other people who are members like CEOs of corporations and things. But they meet annually. Particularly in the old days, they used to decide how things are going to go in the world. Did you ever read a book called by a guy named Hooroo’s America by a guy named Donmouth.

	M:	I have not.



	H:	That’s one you might want to look at. It is old now. But Gene Pasymowski introduced me to all this stuff when I was working at Temple. Then he said, “Matt,” he said, “You can stay here and make money and stuff. But you got to get some letters after your name.” He said, “I think I got the right place for you to go to school, where I went to school. Go out to Ohio. Go to school in Antioch. Get your Master’s there.” He said, “You can write about whatever you want to write about. You just got to work with the dean, and they will figure out how to allow you to write what you want to write.” At that time, all this Black stuff was jumping off, and I wanted to write something about civil rights. And I wanted to get something that would allow me to work at a Black studies program, because that was on the horizon. At the same time, I wanted to be able to work in a high





school, also in a social studies teacher in a way. I kind of shaped the way my work was going to go. So he was very helpful in getting me into the school and encouraging me to get the hell out of there, even though I was making a decent salary and having fun to go back and do graduate work. That’s what happened there.

	D:	So do you remember what you wrote your thesis on?



	H:	I told you I didn’t do a thesis. You could do a thesis or you can do a project. So I did a bunch of project. And I haven’t the faintest idea of what they were on. One of them was a curriculum for teaching Black studies in high school. That was a major project there. Another involving economics was about the Bilderberg Meetings. It wasn’t a long paper. The teachers of the courses decided what you needed to do—

	D:	To pass.



	H:	What they would accept. Some of them were very voluminous. Others were rather thin but heavy on content. It’s at the university. I have never gone back to look on what it was on, because I never was that interested. I just wanted to meet the requirements and get MA behind my name so I could get paid.

	D:	Yeah. [Laughter]

	H:	Because I was thinking that I would probably go back later on and do either a doctorate or a law degree, and as life would have it, you get busy, and you forget all about the academics. And that is one of the thing that I really appreciate Mr.

Pasymowski for. He said, “Man, go now, because life is short, and you get busy





out here working, and you are going to forget about it. You are going to be selling yourself for a lot less than you are worth. At least get MA behind your name.” That’s what happened. I am trying to think. I worked in DC for the DC School District for a while. I think I was in-between jobs. That is not in my résumé. I was in-between jobs or something so I was in DC. So that was interesting. Got the chance to romp around some of the agencies and stuff there. Eventually, I actually came back to Washington and worked in the other program that I think we talked about earlier. I worked for the Street Academy. The Street Academy was a program. Did you know anything about the Street Academies in New York? I think you are too young. The Street Academy came out of New York. It is interesting what they did. He knows a little about it, because we talked about it earlier. It was a program for high school dropouts. And what happened at the time, the high schools did not want dropouts. So, this is going to shock you, the Nixon Administration put up the money for demonstration programs. We had six cities around the United States. Newark, a scumbag city. Washington, DC, a Black area that has gone bad city. San Francisco. Chicago, a true scumbag city. And Detroit, another scumbag city. That is where we had to work. The worst places in the country almost. But I think what happened is that geographical strength had to do with congressmen. Like that when you do something like this, there is almost the unwritten rule that you have give stuff to different geographical areas to get it to go. Interestingly enough, we did not have a formal budget. So if you were to go and look for the agency and look for a budget, you wouldn’t find it. Our budget was in the post office’s budget. And they had carved





it, and they called it training money. It was training money. It was to train high school dropout for employment, and in the process, give them GEDs. Yeah. So our employees were postal workers that had gone to college. So they got leave time from their regular assignments, which was to teach in their academies for us.

[Phone rings]



	H:	They never handled any mail when they were working for us. Oh, this is my sister. This will be a minute. Hello Dog. You thought about your brother, huh? Well, call her—

[Break in recording] [Resume recording]

	H:	Do you know what she did? She went on to have a vacation with two weeks.



Love me and take care of my mother. You don’t know my mother. He’s met my mother.

	D:	Yeah, he has met her before.



	H:	Boy, if you have got one like that, you don’t want to see the second one like that.



You can send me a copy of my eight, because at least I know how to access them all at the same time.

	D:	Okay.



	H:	And make sure that Mr. Molina gets one, too, now. D:	Yeah, he got to pick.

	H:	Oh okay, all right. M:	Got it right here.





	H:	So where was I? I was in the middle of something. I was telling you about what?



You guys stop me when you get ready, because I don’t want you guys to miss going home and eating dinner and stuff now.

	M:	Oh no. We make our hours here these days.



	D:	So were you in New York when King got assassinated? Or was that in Detroit?



	H:	I think I was there when Malcolm was assassinated, yeah. New York was my home base for all this time. Even when I was in Detroit, when I was down in Maryland, I would be going back to New York on the weekends and stuff, because New York is where things are happening. Because I would go to New York just to cruise the Greenwich Village and hang out and go to the jazz clubs and stuff. Or go for the art down in Greenwich Village on the weekends in the summertime. Go down to the Italian…what do you call it? They are doing the food thing in the summertime. To go to Central Park for a concert. I was on the shuttle. Both when I lived in Philly. I did spend a couple of weekends there, but I didn’t spend too many weekends. See, when I was in Philly, I loved it, because I could go down to see my niece and nephews down in Baltimore then turn around and go back to New York the other weekend. Like I said, I was never there. Let me tell you what I did when I was living in Philadelphia. I actually lived on the campus of Swarthmore College. We had an apartment. One of my friends from New York had an apartment that wasn’t too far from the University of Pennsylvania. He never stayed there. He went to Harvard. He was a Harvard law student. He was my friend. His name was Bishop Holifield. He was the attorney for Florida A&M after he came out of law school at Harvard. But his sister was a





student at Swarthmore, and somewhere now I was talking to him. He said, “My sister is at Swarthmore College. You ought to call her, so you will have a room or something to stay in overnight when you first get there, right?” I call her, and she said, “Don’t rent nothing. We have got these guys they call the boys. White guys.” She said, “You go there and stay with them. You know you are not going to look for apartments. Stay over as long as you want. Those are my friends.” Let me tell you who these guys were. Do you remember who John Chancellor was? You know John Chancellor?

	D:	Um-hmm.



	H:	John Chancellor was a reporter for NBC News. One of the dudes was his nephew.

[Laughter]



	H:	Another one was Cutherson, I think was his nephew. Anyways, there was like three or four of them. They bumped together, man. So I didn’t need anything former, because I would be going back to one of the other houses anyway. So this worked out beautiful for me. I would drive in from Swarthmore. I had regular hours. That kind of job, you are not punching the clock. You got a certain amount of work you got to get through. You have training materials that you are developing. You have books that you need to read in order to prepare for certain things. Need to write reports. Whatever. So anyway, I lived with those guys, and man, we had so much fun. There was a little girl. Her name was Suba Shima.

She was Indian. This chick, I don’t know if it was her father, her uncle, or somebody had a house out in the rural part of Pennsylvania. A little further, but it





was a nice place. So we would go out there. They would take their guitars. Like these were laid-back, like right here on a Friday. And she was Indian. We would go out and just hang out. We would cook. She would cook Indian food. We would listen to music. This is like Bob Dylan was being everywhere during this time.

Then the other thing that we did was we participated in all these demonstrations. Like to end the war in Vietnam. Like Farm Hill College and Antioch College would always be at the front of the demonstration lines, because they were radical schools. So we would be out there demonstrating a lot of things that went on in Washington. So we would be going down to Washington all the time for demonstrations and stuff. I actually stayed at John Chancellor’s house one time when we were down there. John Chancellor was a very interesting reporter. He was the kind of guy to get to the bottom of what the issues are. He really impressed me in an interesting way. I think we came in the night before. We were demonstrating at the Pentagon. He wanted to know all about what we were doing other than the fact that his nephew was with us. But he wanted to know why were we demonstrating, what it was all about, what were the issues, what motivated young people. So we had dinner, and we talked about. I can see him preparing for his stories. This is the kind of guy that he prepared. He did his homework.

That was one of the kinds of situations you come into, and you learn a whole lot in a few minutes. I am sure I knew who John Chancellor was, but I never thought that much about it until they said, when we go to this demonstration, we are going to stay over at my uncle’s house. He lived in Northwest DC. So that is something else I hadn’t seen, because the Black folk lived in Southeast. I spent a





lot of time in DC, but I would commute from Baltimore to DC. Northwest was like Central Park on the Upper Eastside. The other part of DC was roach-infested and ghetto. Two worlds. You can see the clash of cultures. It’s so funny about DC though. I think both of you guys are too young for this, but I remember when I was a kid, I told you about the Catskills and going to the Jersey Shore, the only jobs that Black folk had in DC was like shining shoes and maids and janitors and stuff. 95 was actually Route 189, if I am not mistaken, to go to New York. There was no 95. It was either 301 or 441 or something like that, but it went up the coast. Like I said, Black people didn’t have no decent jobs in DC. I remember that from when I was a kid. I saw things change over the years being in and out of DC. That’s why when I went down to the Eastern Shore, it was no big deal. I didn’t realize where we were, because it wasn’t until later on when we starting running into these plantations. They said, “This is the one that master so-and-so had, and he had a hundred slaves or something.” Then you start looking back at your history, and you say, “Oh shit.”

[Laughter]



	H:	This is for real. We were so busy with our work that it wasn’t until later on that you could really appreciate the region that you had been in and what was going on down there. So sure it was known for slavery. That is what it was about.

	D:	Frederick Douglas.



H:  Yeah. I did all that stuff. Where was I? Because I don’t know what we were really talking about I guess. Off-track, I am going to tell you about DC. It was really nice though, when they integrated DC, because DC was a segregated city. The White





people had good jobs. They had on suit and ties and walking into their offices and shit. The Black folk somebody beat them with an ugly stick. You are going to find that sometimes things overlap. And a lot of time, like what I did was that I hid employment or something, particularly with the companies. Because I owned a company and my wife owned a company. So I might end up at the same time being an employee of a company but another company with a different name or something. Because I might need another letter from my supervisor. So I became an employee rather than an owner, but I actually owned the company. She had her own company and I had my own company.

	D:	When did you start travelling overseas and working overseas? H:	That is another interesting story.

[Laughter]



	H:	That was in the [19]60s that I started travelling overseas. I can’t think of her first name, but I had a Jewish girlfriend in New York. Her name was Waifac, Rita Waifac. Rita had planned a trip to Europe. I think we were to meet each other in Europe. She said, matt, you should go to Europe. And the inspiration was that I had to teach a lot of European history classes as a social studies teacher in New York City. That was like the backbone of what social studies did. It did two things. It taught American history and European history. It would teach area studies courses also. That was right up my alley. I need to and see what the hell I am teaching about there. That is the way that I started going to Europe. So in the [19]60s, I took two trips to Europe. I don’t remember the exact date or thing of them. After the first time, you get hungry, so you keep going back. Because my





wife and I, we were there just before I went to China. I guess it was about six years ago. It was the last trip I went. I was supposed to go last year, but I didn’t get time to go last year. This is what you do. After you do a survey of the area, that you start getting interested in the smaller areas. So we went to the south of France where I always go and to Paris. Then we struck out for all the Scandinavian countries. I almost went to Saint Petersburg, because they had an overnight thing where you go to Finland, and then you go to Saint Petersburg.

We didn’t do that, but we went to all the Scandinavian countries. The only thing that stopped us was that she had to be back at work at a certain time, and we were getting exhausted. Normally, I would rent a car and drive. We did the whole thing on the train. So there was no pressure on me to have to drive or anything. We would schedule thing. We would be on the train at night, so we didn’t pay a hotel bill the next morning. We would start looking at the city in the evening, and we would check into a hotel or something. Just smart travel. Just smart travel.

Then we had Europasses for the train. Oh, I got to tell you about this. You guys will like this here. I don’t know if it was Norway or Denmark. We went from Germany, I think it was, or it could have been Amsterdam. Yeah, Amsterdam by a train, I think through Denmark. It wasn’t Denmark. I don’t know where the hell it was. But anyway, we were up on the Baltic, and there was a train that went onto a boat. In the train, after it got to the other side of the Baltic, went back on to the tracks, and proceeded on to Norway or Denmark. So we had this Europass, which you can use for thirty days or something. So I said, “Okay, we are going to





go, because I want to see where these guys get…”What’s the award you get every year?

	M:	Oh, the Nobe—



	H:	Yeah, the Nobel Prize. I want to go up there and check out that part of the world.



So we got on this train, and the damn train like…what do you call it? What’s those ferry boats?

	D:	Um-hmm.



	H:	Because I don’t know what I thought. I thought that the train was, because I knew the whole thing was going to be by train, but I thought they had some rails over the ocean or a big bridge or something like that.

[Laughter]



	H:	I don’t know how many hours it was, but it was maybe an hour and a half, two hours or something. Funny thing though is that as we were getting on the train to leave whatever that country was, Germany, to go to Denmark, everybody was buying all this damn liquor and stuff, right? Why are these people buying all this liquor? Because they find out later on there is no tax over here, but when you get up to the Scandinavian countries, they tax the hell out of it. So people would be buying their supply. And even after they paid their duty on it, a lot of it was duty- free I think, they still made out well. So that turned out to be an interesting experience. And the Scandinavian countries were really interesting. Just really interesting. Never did make it up to…what is the city where they have the Nobel?

	D:	I thought it was Geneva, but it might not be. H:	No.





	D:	No, that’s not it. Oh Norway, Oslo? H:	What’s the capital? Oslo?

	M:	We have the internet right here. Yeah, it could be Oslo. H:	After I got over there, you know what they said?

	M:	Stockholm.



	H:	Stockholm, yeah. I talked to a lot of different people. Over in the Scandinavian countries, they have good travel agencies, but they are run by the government. And they are very honest. They will tell you what the sites are that are worth seeing. They say, “You don’t want to go up here. There’s nothing up there. You will waste a whole bunch of time.” That’s a nice city, but it is slower. Go to some of these places here. So they gave me a list of places to go and stuff. So that’s what I did. I said, “If I have time, I will make it up there.” But no, we never did make it there. We went to other things. One of the things that was interesting is that they had these hotels that would be along the body of water. It looked like a city street where the water ran like in these channels and things. And the hotels would on them. The other thing that was interesting, it kind of remind you of New York buildings when you go back start thinking about the Dutch selling in New York. The buildings were very big. I am thinking about thinking about Amsterdam now with the private homes. But I am talking about Denmark either Norway, they had these big old buildings, and it is cold as hell up there so it makes sense that you would want to live in one of these big buildings. These buildings were very substantial for the winter. But when you look at the apartment buildings in New York, you say this is where that design came from, obviously. Because you





wonder buildings like in…I don’t know if you spent much time, not in the city, but in like Brooklyn or something. You look at those buildings. They are not the most beautiful buildings, but they are very practical. They are built right next to each other. You can’t separate one from the other one. Just like the brownstones that they talk about. Like the ones in the Scandinavian countries were bigger and taller. I stayed at a hotel so I don’t know that much about the homes themselves, how they are were inside, but I do know about the construction, because I could see them from the outside. In the wintertime, most certainly, you didn’t freeze to death in these places.

	D:	You didn’t run into any of the Black folks travelling around the [19]60s?



H:  I did, but I ran into Africans for the most part. I tell you a story. There were some White guys that had said something to me, and I don’t speak French or anything like that. And these Africans were sitting to another table. So whatever they said must have been something nasty. And the Africans came over and told me, and they said, we are going to speak to them. Don’t worry about nothing. We will kick their ass.

[Laughter]



	H:	So they exchanged words or something. Basically, I guess they said, “Don’t say a fucking thing to him and don’t say anything about him.” Because they understood the language. I didn’t. That was a shout out. That was the kind of things I ran into. Very, very nice people. And most of the Europeans were like this cool. I think it was the second trip. No, it was the third trip, I believe, when I was there. It was at every trip. It was every trip. I went to England, and I wasn’t





impressed that much by England interesting enough. You go there in the [19]60s, you wouldn’t think about this. Europe was very slow. There were buildings that were still destroyed from World War II that I saw. France was a place that really impressed me. The English people, you speak the same damn language.

France, I would be travelling and say, “Do you have a hotel?” “No.” “So where are you going to spend the night?” I said, ‘I will get one. Come to my house, man. I got an extra room.” One dude put me up on a military base with him and his wife and his kids. I am trying to think. Was I travelling alone? Or did I have a girlfriend? I don’t know what the deal was then. But rich people. I didn’t even speak the language, and they would go overboard. I was travelling late one night another year in France, and I had my wife at the time with me. Dude that was the vice-mayor of the city. I think we were out at a fountain, because you know they have them roundabouts. We were just washing our face in the fountain, and dude came up and start talking. And he said, you guys are American. Oh yeah, we are American. He was vice-mayor. The lord mayor or something of this city. He said, “My house is not too far away. Would you care to come over and drink some wine or something and have a little cheese and chat for a while?” That sounds good. Get to know the natives.

[Laughter]



	H:	So we went over. This dude, him and his brother had a wine label. They had their own where they press a few grapes every year and put away some wine. So we sat there, and we drank wine. But we got juiced. Of course, we had a car. So we continued our trip on. Because what we were doing, we would sleep in our damn





car. We would find a place and pull over after a while and sleep in our car. So we did that with that group. I told you another one was a military guy that invited us to spend the night. We had another one. I think this was on my third trip to Paris. It is down in the south of France, and there was this girl that was hitchhiking by herself. So it was me and my wife together. So we stopped to give her a ride.

Because I told my wife, I said, “When I first came to Europe, I hitchhiked.” I didn’t have no money or nothing. But that was in the good old days. People still do a lot of hitchhiking in Europe. So I said, “Let’s give her a ride.” Started to give her a ride. She rode all the way to Paris with us. I don’t know where the hell we were. We were in that vast land between the south of France. Antibes was where we stayed and Paris. So she was as happy as I don’t know what because of the ride. This girl, she said, “I have to go to a conference when I get back to Paris.” She said, “Here is the set of keys to my house.” She said, “First of all, I am inviting you guys to come and stay at my house so you don’t have to pay no money for a hotel. And secondly, when I leave, don’t leave. You guys stay there and look at Paris. Just put the keys under the mat when you guys are getting ready to leave.” That’s what I mean when I say…the English…I don’t even want to tell you the incident, but I had a racist incident at the airport one time in London. The dude thought I was from the Caribbean. I said, “Man, I am not one of your goddamn subjects. Are you out of your goddamn mind?”

[Laughter]



	H:	I said, “I am an American citizen. Read the goddamn passport.” Just luckily I was working in Washington for the president at the time. I said, “Let me tell you





something. You keep fucking with me, you are going to have an international incident on your hands. I work for the president of the United States. I am not travelling under an official passport. I am on a pleasure trip. But I will call back there and raise so much.” And that motherfucker like hurtled up and turned me up. “Have a good trip, Mr. Harris, and blah, blah, blah.” I guess they were doing some kind of chickenshit interview, and I just got tired of the bullshit. I said, “Yeah?” I finally said, “I am not one of your subjects, and I am not going to be subjected to this bullshit.” So that was it. That is the kind of crazy stuff that would go on. But generally, there were no incidents or anything. It was smooth, and people were very civilized. Like most people when they travel, they are like real culture vultures. I wanted to see the geography. I want to eat good food. I want to drink good. I want to fuck as many of the women that I can.

[Laughter]



	H:	That’s my idea of a vacation. If I happen to be at the Louvre and it is close by, well, that’s nice to see some of the things that I looked at in the art books and stuff. That’s not the primary thing. That’s like my present wife said, “These look like dusty warehouses to me.” I took her to the Louvre. She said, “This looks like a damn warehouse to me.” My wife is Chinese. You know in China, everything is on a big scale. So everything looks like a warehouse to her, but particularly if you don’t the value of it. So we went down to…what’s the place? The Palace of Mirrors.

	M:	Okay.



	H:	You know the Palace of Mirrors?





	D:	No, the Palace of Mirrors?



	M:	Well, let’s bring it up. I mean I just drank a glass.



	H:	This place is more. I wanted to say a mansion, but this place is more than a mansion.

	M:	Wait, that can’t be it.



	H:	The Hall of Mirrors. You put in the Hall of Mirrors of World War II, it will pop up. M:	There we go. Here.

	H:	The Farmer Gardens they have them in, they are out of site. This is the place. My wife is right. It does look like a warehouse. Click on something else. What are we talking about? You haven’t seen so much art and stuff. Those are art. Valuable pieces of art along the walls there. And this place is huge. Can you do a search for Farmer Gardens? I would love for you to see these gardens.

	M:	With Hall of Mirrors in it?



	H:	Yeah. Yeah, it is there at the Hall of Mirrors, but it is on the outside. But this is where they signed the treaty after World War—

	D:	The Versailles Treaty? The Treaty of Versailles?



	H:	Versailles. Treaty of Versailles. It is Versailles. That’s it from the outside right there. That’s the way it looks. See if you see more, because those Farmer Gardens are fantastic. You can stand one place and look out. And whatever you think a mansion is supposed to look like, that is what it looks like outside.

	M:	There we go. Is that—?



	H:	That’s a job, but that is still not a good one. Those gardens are out of this world. You are looking at the place, and they have the gardeners out there working on





the place at the same time. That’s what I am talking about. You see that. And that still don’t do it justice. I looked wherever that was. I am looking. I am saying, you mean people actually lived here? Henry the something or another or somebody. The place is amazing. And I remember when my high school social studies teacher was telling us about the place. He said, “The Palace of Versailles is this, that, or the other.” And I had gone to Paris I don’t know how many times, but I didn’t realize this was in the suburbs of Paris. Because I didn’t know that they had places that were in the suburbs at the time. But every duke or somebody, they had them another place outside the city. That was it. I don’t know how we got off on that, but that was an experience going there. They were spending millions to renovate the place when I went there last time. So that was another place that was really interesting. You had asked me how did I get to go to Europe. I am starting right now. I am not talking anymore.

[Laughter]



	M:	So you guys might have talked about it, but was there anything about growing up in Gainesville that you felt prepared you for this? Or were you just throwing yourself in?

	H:	No.



	M:	Was it culture-shock to be doing all this travelling to begin with?



	H:	No. He knows this already, but I started travelling at a young age. I think it was probably my tenth grade year in school. My father was a mechanic so I travelled a lot throughout the state of Florida as a youngster. He would go to visit family, visit people that owed him money and collect, and stuff like that. So we would go





all down to South Florida. We would go up in the Panhandle and stuff. I did that kind of traveling. But when I hit the tenth grade, I started going to upstate New York for work in the summertime. I am not going to go through the detail. I will let him tell you about that. It is on the tape. But there is a gentleman, Mr. Brown, who was a cook. I was part of his staff. And I believe the first summer we went to the Catskills. Do you know anything about the Borscht Belt?

	M:	Not really.



	H:	You know guys like Jackie Mason. These Jewish comedians and stuff. M:	Hmm, yeah.

	H:	That were on television. What they would do in the summertime, they would appear in the Catskills. And the people in the Catskills were usually Jews. And they were people, their background was European. This was kind of like going in the mountains in one of those countries over there, because it was like small hills and stuff up in the Catskills, but it was cooler than New York City. You got to realize a lot of these people lived in these hot-ass houses in New York City. They wanted to get away. That particular one where I went to the Lake House Hotel, these were religious Jews so kosher. They didn’t do anything. They just sit around and talk all the time and ate good. Gushava, all the time. They didn’t work on Saturday. These people are so religious they don’t even turn off the lights. We would have to turn off the lights. They come and ask us, “Would you turn off the lights, please?” “Why should I turn off the lights for you? Get over there and do it yourself.” What the hell do I know about their religious practices and stuff? They didn’t drive. They just walked on Saturday. You know, Crown





Heights. They all walked on the weekends. They parked the car. That’s it. The city even had different parking regulations in that part of New York City, so they didn’t get tickets. They would be up in Catskills. That’s how I got involved with that. We travelled by automobile. That also allowed me to see something that was changing. People who worked and did manual labor in the fields. You got to realize, I lived in Gainesville at the time. So I was an urban kid. We had a lot of kids around here who lived out in the rural areas, because they had a consolidated school. So they would bring them into the city. But I knew nothing hardly about country life, other than when I would visit my grandparents in the summertime, which would be like for a week. Two weeks at the most. They had a farm up in Georgia, so I would slide that way. But the rural farm life, I knew nothing about it. Let me tell you all a classic story. I don’t know what grade I was in, but I had these White guys. They could have been University of Florida students like Kappa Alpha or something, because that was a racist group. I was on my way home to my father’s family on South Main. So I am coming home on the street, and there is a CVS there now, but that used to be a Winn-Dixie if I am not mistaken. So these White fellas, I want to say they were in the back of a truck, but they could have been in a car. They said, “Hey nigger.” And this is the only incident that ever happened to me. “Hey nigger.” I said, “Hey cracker. Hey cracker.” I think they were driving and drinking, but they stopped in right. Boy, they turned around. And there just happened to be a field right there. And it was a field with weeds and stuff growing up really high, but there was a path down between there. I hauled ass.





[Laughter]



	H:	There must have been about six of them and me. I didn’t even try to go in the front door at my family’s house. I went right into the back of the house. Then they didn’t know which house I went to or whatever. Then they were riding in the alley looking for me, but I was home safe. That’s the only incident I ever had that happened to me. You could see I didn’t know much about the type of racial stuff that would be going on. Like I said, I was raised up here in Gainesville. He knows about the past. I had a fantastic past, because we had one White family that we were very close to. So we never run into any real foolishness, and my mother worked at the University of Florida. I don’t know if I ever told you this, but my father is Indian, American Indian. And his mother was a full-blooded Seminole.

So my father was…I am trying to think how to say it. Nobody was above my father. I don’t care what race you were. My father beat the shit out of White men right downtown in Gainesville. So that is the way I was raised. You don’t take any shit off anybody, okay? So I never allowed anybody to do anything to me, because I wasn’t a bad person of anything, but you have your respect. So you are not going to do things. So I never took any shit. So those White guys that were after me, I am sure they had caught up with me, I am sure I would have grabbed some implement or something and beat the shit out of them. Make an example out of one of them at least. Don’t do it. You know where the Bank of America is over here on University Avenue?

	D:	Yeah. Um-hmm.





	H:	At that corner, there used to be a gas station there. It was a Gulf Oil Station. There was a little White guy that ran it, Mr. Hayes. Mr. Hayes, my dad worked for, but he was a mechanic there. Most of the clientele, they were students from the University of Florida. He had a son that was close to my age. We had more fun out there. The summer we would be out there whistling at the girls and things. He was older than me. He would be telling me what to look for, qualities in the women and stuff.

[Laughter]



	H:	He was like a big brother. Give me guidance. I am telling you. After all kind of foolishness. After school, I might drop by there or something. I would help him. I might wash the windows. He might put the gas in the car, because those were the days when you service the car. The client didn’t put the gas in the car. I don’t know if you remember that. Like in the old days. Like we have self-service centers.

	M:	Oh yeah.



	H:	Oh, you come up, you get a window washing. You get your front headlights wiped off. You might even get the inside sweeped out. Service when you went for gas. So I would go up there and hang out. And sometimes we might wash some cars or something. I don’t even remember the kid’s name. He had a station there. He another station right close to where…you guys don’t know, because you are too young. When you go downtown there, the courthouse used to be where those city buildings are. Like where you go to pay your taxes and stuff at and pick up your tag. There was a courthouse there. An old time courthouse just like what





you would see in the movie or something of a Southern city with several oak trees there. Only god knows how many Black people were hung from the damn trees, because that is where justice was meted out at. They had the oak trees already there, so you know they were going to use them. I tell you a funny story. I don’t know who told me this story. It is not funny. But you know where the Hippodrome is? Somebody told me that there was a courthouse. No, that is where they used to hang Black people down there. So I don’t know if they would out up a gallows down there or what, but he said the White people would come into town just to look at them hang Black people down there. You would be deemed guilty. After they decided you were guilty, they would just take you outside and hang you right there. You might do some research and find out something, but they told me it was right down there in front of the Hippodrome.

Because where the Hippodrome is, didn’t that use to be a post office?



	D:	Okay.



	H:	But I don’t know what it was before it was a post office. It may have been some kind of federal building or something there, but it could have been a courthouse. I am not sure what that was. But that was what I was told. It could have been fiction. It don’t have to be fact. But I do know for a fact, going out of Newberry Road there, they had a place out there called Lynch Hammock, where they used to hang Black folk out there. That’s a fact. Mr. Welch could be one that could verify it. He would know. Because Mr. Welch works in Newberry, so he knows the ins and outs. By the way, we got to go and visit Mr. Welch and interview him,





because he is up there. If you got any good questions, he is the man while he is still breathing. Not the young Mr. Welch, the older Mr. Welch.

	D:	Is he still available?



	H:	Yeah. Yeah. Hell yeah. We will work it. Don’t worry. I will go over there and make sure I prop him up.

[Laughter]



	H:	And get him ready. Mr. Welch is my buddy, because what happened when I was growing up, his nephew and I were always friends. So Mr. Welch’s mother was in charge of the recreation center. And of course, we had two recreation centers.

They had one. She was in charge of the Black recreation center. Do you all know where the police department is? The substation they have right off of Main Street there.

D:   That’s where the current—



	H:	Not the main police station but a substation. If you were to go down there, you would see all these police cars. It is on First Street.

D:   Is it by that Walker Furniture?



	H:	Yeah. Yeah. That building, the actual building is the old Black recreation center.



That is where all the Black kids in Northwest would hang out. Ira Gold’s grandmother’s name was Ms. Green. Ms. Green was in charge of the center. If you got to be too much Ms. Green, all Ms. Green had to do was call Sergeant Lewis of the city police department, and he would come over. You didn’t want that. Mrs. Green said, “You are not welcome here. Leave.” You better believe they would be turning around walking out the door. She was an older lady. She





wasn’t a young lady that is physically fit and everything. She wasn’t a fat woman, but she was kind of. And she had a Geechee talk. Something I found out, you have to ask Ira Gold about this here. Ira Gold’s family, I think, come out of the Bahamas, out of Nassau. And that, I believe, is the reason that she had that kind of. You know the Geechee thing goes to South Carolina. That’s like an African dialect down there. If you were to talk to Ms. Green, you might miss a few of the things that she was saying. “Ms. Green, could you say that again?” But very nice lady. We had card games. We had a basketball court. Right next to it, was a library also. Because you couldn’t go downtown to the library. They don’t want your Black ass handling no book. So we had our own library. And of course, during the summertime, they did the big business. But during the regular year, they probably didn’t do a big business, because we had a library in the school.

But in the summertime, I could remember some of us were…they had special programs where the library would tell stories and read books to us from time to time. There was like a designated time and date. Like they said teenagers or little kids or whatever. But we had lots of activities at the library. And we had dances at night. And usually, I think, it was Friday night or Saturday night. Or it could have been one week Friday, one week Saturday or something or another. When we grew up, we had a real sense of community here in Gainesville within the Black community. And I lived in the section where professional Black people lived. So again, it wasn’t this rural thing. As I was telling you, my godmother, she rented rooms for teachers. So a lot of teachers that came to Gainesville, they didn’t have a place to stay. And there wasn’t no hotels that would accommodate





Black folk, unless it was a fleabag or something or another. So they roomed there. Like one lady, I found out later on she came from Hawthorne. She would go back to Hawthorne on the weekends, but during the week, she didn’t want to drive all the way from Gainesville to Hawthorne. Because you got to remember, the roads were not like they are now. These were narrow roads and stuff. It means you have to get up too early probably to get to Gainesville. Other people came from Daytona and other places to work here. A lot of teachers would go back to their hometowns and thing during the weekends, but they lived at my godmother’s house. And she had a big house. Those were the people I was around as a youth growing up and stuff. They would talk to them, and I would talk to them. They would take us places. And the teachers had nice cars. That was the only people that could get new cars, the Black people. I would tell my mother, the ministers and the undertakers. They all had nice cars, too. Oh, I forgot one.

The numbers runner. [Laughter]

	H:	They had a nice car, too.



	D:	Was that big in Gainesville? The numbers?



	H:	We had a guy here. The guy was actually from New York, and his name was Little Ike. Do you remember that Thunderbird that four passenger with the teardrop?

	D:	I don’t know.



	H:	Oh, you have seen it but didn’t know what the hell what you were looking at.



Well, that was a badass drive. That thing was like a 1960 Thunderbird. See, the





original Thunderbirds, and one of my cousins had one of those, it was a two- seater. And it was like a European sports car, like a Roadster. But this was like a—

	D:	Like a Cadillac.



	H:	No, this was like a sports car but not a true sports car. Dama, dama. Find something with a roof on it. Find something with a roof on it. Man, you are talking about a ride. Oh Lord. That is the [19]58 Ford. That sucker there, man, I think that is the only one they got. Man, if you were to put in that year Thunderbird, I am sure a whole bunch of crap would come up.

	M:	1966.



	H:	You are selling that sucker for. That is what I called a glide-mobile. Man, it felt like you were riding on cotton. And the air-conditioning on that sucker. No, that is not it. That is the old Mercury there. That’s the one my cousin had. What is that?

	M:	That’s a Thunderbird. H:	That’s it?

	M:	It is saying.



	H:	Oh yea. That’s it. That’s it. That’s it. That’s not a good shot of it though. But 1966 Thunderbird, you look it up when you got time. A ride. There is a few of them right here in Gainesville. Right up there and they are still running. The numbers runner had one of those. And this wasn’t no ordinary numbers runner. This was the man. He may be have been doing his own bookmaking. I don’t know. But yeah. New car come out, every year. The other one is traded in or something, but he has got them new.





	M:	Where did he live?



	H:	He owns his own place not too far from Lincoln High School. M:	So he lived up this way in the Fifth Avenue neighborhood?

	H:	No, no.



	M:	Oh, Lincoln. Knowing Lincoln, okay.



	H:	Here is what I think of this. I think his family had money. Let me tell you about a business that you all might have interest in knowing about. Alachua County was a dry county. There were people who sold liquor out of their house. Or they might have a place where they told potato chips and cold drinks or something. Then out the backdoor, they are selling moonshine. Or they are selling liquor by the bottle. So there were people that had substantial money, but the only outward sign of it might be that they have a nice ride or something. But there wasn’t nobody investigating them or nothing. They may have been, and I am almost sure they were, paying off the cops or something. Because the cops were aware of everything, and they had their hands out in everything they could. I will tell you something. My father, I told you he was a mechanic, right?

	D:	Um-hmm.



	H:	My father had a side-life. This is his side-life when he had time. My father knew how to make money. My father root for some bootlegger, and he would haul the moonshine. But if you are hauling moonshine, your car has got to have springs in the back of it. See, a car when it got loaded down with moonshine, it would drop down or the back would drop down. So you had to have a special spring. So my father would be fixing up cars for these bootleggers. But I think that is how he got





involved with these fellas hauling moonshine. But this actually happened. On the front page of the Gainesville Sun, my father got caught. My mother was one of the supposedly church women. Oh Lord, she was just embarrassed to death that he got caught hauling moonshine. Like I said, this was the picture on the front page of the what-do-you-call-it. What they would do is like have your car, and if you are sitting out there like a convict and have all these bottles of moonshine.

What do you call those thing? What are they? Twenty-five gallons? Big old jars like this here. What is that? Five gallons?

	D:	I know what. They size of cans.



	H:	It is the same thing like the water. Like what you turn upside down on the water. D:	Oh yeah. Yeah.

	H:	That kind of stuff.



	D:	That sounds like twenty-five gallons. H:	Yeah, something like that.

	D:	Thirty gallons.



	H:	Anyway, what happened was the way this thing worked would be that you would be told to where to go and look. Like some in the woods or something. You would pick up your stash. It would be up under some palmetto bushes or something or covered up with some cardboard or something. Then you would be given instructions as to where to take it to. So that is what they did in that span of time. So that was like the most embarrassing thing, because my mother worked here at the university. Something like that. She was one of those proper Black women.





She was just duly embarrassed because of that. But that was the only kind of crazy thing that happened to the family.

	D:	So it was a dry for students, too? So students couldn’t drink either? H:	Hmm?

	D:	It was a dry county for students?



	H:	Man, you know them damn students would be getting on that moonshine.



	D:	That is what I am saying. So they had to go in the Black neighborhoods to get it.



Or they probably had somebody else.



	H:	They may have had somebody else. But the White students at the University of Florida have always had a nice connection with the Black community, because maybe it was a cook. Maybe it was somebody doing the yards. You know how curious students are. They always want to look. So they would go to Walter’s Barbecue to get their barbecue. They would make friends with somebody there. There was another place. Some kind of grill. They would go there to get hamburgers or something. There might be some Black person that is working at Whataburger or Burger King or something now, because they had all that kind of stuff. But the students and the workers and things, they would go fishing together. They always did stuff with the students. We had a lot of northern students here. Plus the community always liked the students. Students frankly were just very nice to the people in the community and stuff also. I remember when I was a kid, we used to come out to the University of Florida for Christmas party at the student union every year. I think we would be among the few Black folk that would be there, because my mother worked there. And the student





union always run by their students. My mother would probably ask some stupid- ass questions like, “Are you sure?” The students would say, “This is our goddamn student union. Hell yeah, they can come. They will get gifts when they get there, too.”

[Laughter]



	H:	Because the students always had a very assertive attitude about student union.



They wasn’t up for no bullshit. Same thing with the Alligator, the newspaper. They sued the goddamn University of Florida.

	M:	There is a trash bag there.



	H:	Yeah, they sued the University of Florida, and that is why it became the Independent Alligator. But the students had backbone. Same thing with civil rights stuff. The students were always turning shit out around here. Let me tell you something. Hold on. Do you all know University Avenue and Thirteenth Street? They closed off that damn street around homecoming time. They were having a bonfire right in the middle of the goddamn street out there.

	D:	I have seen pictures of it. [Laughter]

	H:	And those frat houses all along there. So the frat boys would be sitting out there on their balconies and shit, drinking beer and stuff and eating rib sandwiches and shit. There was a lion up on that corner there. That damn lion, he caught hell.

They would be throwing all kind. The lion was white, but the other frats would throw all kind of damn and shit on it and fuck that lion up. I used to think somebody put some dynamite under that lion’s ass one year and blow him up.





The students were like real pranksters and stuff. But in a positive way. Everybody knew they were going to do that shit, so it wasn’t no big deal. You know a place that still has something like that is University of Texas at—

	D:	Austin.



	H:	I don’t think it’s Austin. I think the one where Bush went. They still have a hell of a football team. What is the name of that one? Do you know it? East Texas or something. Wherever the Bush Library is. They still have a bonfire out there every year. It is not Texas-Austin though.

	M:	Baylor? Is that it? No.



	H:	No, he went to the University of Texas, but it is not at Austin. It is another one somewhere. Wherever the Bush Library, that one. But you put in that Texas bonfire on University, I guarantee on the Google Search, you will come up with pictures of it. I think they do it in the stadium if I am not mistaken or something. I don’t remember exactly where they do it at but yeah. Southern students, they were hell raisers. I will tell you that.

	D:	I am going to the bathroom real quick.



	M:	I don’t know if you talked much about your father or your grandmother earlier. So your grandmother was a Seminole, right?

	H:	That’s on my father’s side.



	M:	Yes, yeah. Where was she from? D:	Live Oak.

	M:	Like did she grow up in this area?





	H:	No, Live Oak. Yeah, she was in Live Oak. I don’t know that much about that part of the family interestingly enough. I am going to get a chance to talk to Mrs.

Mickle, who is Judge Mickle’s wife. She grew up in the same town where my grandmother was. So she knows about the family there and connections and stuff. She is related to me by blood. Her father is related to my father. I think they are cousins or something. If you look at her and you look at my father, I am much taller than my father She is short like them. Like those folk. So I will get some information, but I wanted to go out to Live Oak and actually look in the county record to find out more. Because my grandfather, he didn’t live there. What happened is my grandmother died young. And my father was actually raised by my cousin Judy. I tell you I was born in the cities. My father’s family and those guys, you are not getting anything from me. But she was the one that knew everything. And when I was living with her, sometimes you are stupid. You don’t think about asking the right questions and thing. And my cousin was that kind of person. She would tell me anything I wanted to know. Like I said, when you are young, you are stupid. So you don’t ask the relevant question, you know? So it wasn’t until later on, after she was dead, I started thinking about it. What was happening is that I was having spats with my mother, so my cousin Judy, she said, “Matt Jr., my brother will take you back to your house.” Because her brother had a car. “And you go to your mother’s house, and you pick up all of your things, and you bring them with you.” Now what it was is that my mother, she was from the old-school. She wanted to whip you. And I was getting into my teens. And I said “No.” I said to her, “People talk to people. They don’t do that here.” And she





was fucking crazy. “You don’t tell me what to do.” So I just reached her, and I grabbed the sticks and the switches that she had. I said, “If you ever hit me again, I am going to beat the shit out of you.” So that ended that. “You get out of here. Get out of here right now!” So I did exactly what she said. I got out of there. The interesting thing, it wasn’t planned anything. I had just gotten to a point that was old. We are not going to do business that way. So when I left her, I went to talk to my cousin Judy. That’s when my cousin Judy, she said, “Matt, you can just get your things and come over.” My father, he remarried, and he was living down in South Florida. My father lived right down by Cape Kennedy. But what I didn’t realize is that this was the woman that raised my father. So she looked upon me in a motherly way. She wasn’t just a cousin. She was a very special cousin. So she was always interested in my welfare, and she knew how crazy my mother was. She almost didn’t say another word. “Matt Jr., we are going to go back, and we are going to arrange for you to get your clothes and things. You get everything that you want to bring at one time.” They had two houses. She said, “You can stay at that house. You can stay in this house. You can eat in that house and sleep in this house. Whatever you want to do, that’s my brother’s house.” Of course, I knew them. I knew all of them. It was Cousin Leroy. So that is where I stayed until I graduated from school. My mother, she was like oh. She was going all apeshit. You should move back home. You need to graduate from this house. I am not talking about no graduation. I am concerned being in the run of crazy-ass woman that might have to kill me. So I never did come back, because I knew she was a nutcase. Like I said, I might have to kill her. Even at





that time, he knows it, but what happened, I worked for a family that was connected with the University of Florida. This was M.H. Johnson, Mack Houston Johnson. He taught architecture in the…what do you call it? I forgot what the school was called.

	M:	Oh…I know what you mean.



	H:	But anyway, he taught over there. This guy was one of my mentors. I had like four. But he was one of my primary mentors. My weekends were spent working with him as I went through my teens and things. We would sit down, and we would talk. He would give me guidance and stuff on all kinds of issues. Plus, he was like a real friend, so he had a son, too. And the son and I were very close friends, too. I tell you a classic. I think it is on the tape already. But he said, “Matt, he said, I am busy.” Because he worked for a private firm as a consultant also here in Gainesville. He was busy designing buildings and stuff and making money. So he said, “I taught how to do everything. Lawns, repair up the house, cut down trees, construct houses. You got to do that for my son, because I don’t have time for him.”

[Laughter]



	H:	They would go fishing together on the weekend with Art Campbell who was the other architect and his sons. He said, “That is your charge, to train him. You are working, but you don’t do all the work. Your job is to train him to work.” He said, “Just go in his room at nine o’clock on Saturday morning and tell him it is time to go to work. You can just go in there and wake him up.” He said, “Don’t let him slide. Treat him the same way I treated you. Keep his hours and he get the winds





for the work he does, but he got to work.” I did a pretty good job. This young man ended up being the vice-president of Roanoke College.

[Laughter]



	H:	Yeah, so the family is dead now, but he is very much alive. And I see him and we communicate from time to time. He remained one of my best friends for life. That gentleman, he didn’t just give me moral support in working for him. But when I was in college, if I were to come home or something, well, he would be talking to me. And he would say, man, “What your finances like for school?” I said, “Well, I got a hundred dollars and tuition is paid.” He said, “But you didn’t include no books in there. What about going to a movie every now and then?” He said, “Okay, you did fifty dollars’ worth of work here at the house today. Your check is six hundred and fifty dollars.” So I said, “Say again?” He said, “It’s for incidentals for college. When you return after the Thanksgiving holidays, I am sure you will figure out a way to use it, too.” That’s what I mean when I say a real friend. Then he said, there is more where this came from. If you find yourself running short, you know how to pick up the phone and call this number, okay? He said, give me a call. I might look up at Christmastime, and there is another check. He said, just in case everything is not coming together. He said, “I went to college one time, I know how difficult it can be.” And I had a car. That was one of my lifetime friends. When he had a stroke or a heart attack, I am not sure. But when he died, that thing really hit me hard, because he was my serious mentor. I think everything that was able to do later on was a result of experiences I had had like working with him. We’d sit down and have lunch together, me, him, and his son. Often





we’d sit down at his house, because he would come home for lunchtime to check on what we were doing and stuff. But like he said, he was busy. He would be drawing up plans. He had a study or an office in his house. It was on the back of the garage. So this didn’t look like anything we had ever seen before. He had a board as big as that damn board right over there, but it had a T-square on it. That is where he would be drawing the plans for homes and stuff. He often did a lot of work at home with designs and stuff. Then sometimes we would actually go out and survey of land. If somebody had property and stuff. Because he was a surveyor also. I don’t know if you have ever seen these things. Every property has four metal rods in it somewhere. And it marks the corners. He would put a line, and you can see where the boundaries of that property were. So he would do that prior to home being built on it. I am sure that what he would have is things from the county office that told the dimensions of the land and stuff. So you had to survey it off to know if you were in the right sport to build a house. So the house would maybe have to be a minimum of twelve feet from the property line or something or another. So he would drive those things into the ground and stuff at those locations and stuff. So anyways, we would do stuff like that from time to time. Then he hooked me up with a bunch of university professors. I had about five or six customers that were all university people. Most of them were like professors and stuff. I am sure that they were from his social circle of friends and things.

	M:	And you were how old at this time? Like early twenties or something? H:	No. Man, we are talking about twelve, thirteen.





	M:	Oh, this is much earlier.



	H:	I started to work young. The way this happened is my mother met him at some function here at the university. And they got to talking. He had some idea that he needed somebody to help in his home. So he asked mother if she would be willing to work for him sometime when she wasn’t at work here. Like on the weekends. In those days, the professors might have a social at their home for a mixer in the department. It could be students. It could be faculty or something.

They would have little get-togethers. So my mother would serve the punch and help her with the dishes and pan sandwiches or whatever it was that they would have. Nothing heavy but just prepare for the party and then clean-up and stuff afterwards. So Mr. Johnson and I would talk from time to time. This guy was kind a Bill Gates in terms of humanitarian type stuff. See, he was a lieutenant commander in the navy. And this dude would go behind enemy lines and do all kind of stuff with his submarine. Pick up people and stuff. So I would be talking to him, and he said, “You know, I am not sending no money overseas to nobody.

We have enough problems here. I can solve some of them.” So basically, you became his charity. So he donated his money to me. Besides, I can get a damn tax write-off anyway on this stuff in the section for gifts. He was a cool dude and very nice low-key man. He was also involved with the Navy Reserve here when thing got heavy. He would have to go to these naval reserve meetings here. But he was just an all-around person. Something else interesting about him, I don’t think I told you about this here, he would take his family out west in the summer. Not every summer but maybe every other summer, he would take the kids and





everybody. Pack them up in the car. They would drive through the national forests and stuff out in the West. I remember one year, in the sun I think it was, they went to Mexico in the car. Because the goddamn car broke down in Mexico, and they had to leave it down there. Then eventually went back to get it after it was fixed or something. I guess they had to order parts or something. I travelled to Mexico in the old days. In the old days, our vehicles were new cars. They were riding shit like what they have down in Cuba. You got stuck down there, man, you were stuck until you got what you needed down there, It wasn’t that Mexico didn’t have mechanics and stuff. Because the way that Mexico kept all their car going is they wonderful mechanics, but they would machine shop the tools. So they would make what they needed down there. And if you had like a brand new Chrysler or something, you wanted the Chrysler part from the company. Because it was probably warrantied or something. So that is the difference. Him and his wife went to Europe and stuff. They travelled like that also. I don’t think the kids went with him when they went to Europe. This is another thing. I had the run of the whole house. At his house, I would go in the sunroom, and I would tell him to get his ass out of the bed, and I would lay down and go to sleep there. Because like I said, he was like my younger brother. I was the boss. He was say, “Man, I got the bed, and you can sleep on the bed. I will lay down on the floor.” What I was going to tell you about is you would go into the living room, they would have all these books on the United States, on Europe. These were picture books, coffee tables books. World War II. So I would sit there, and when I had leisure time and look at this things. Then Time Magazine, National Geographic, all that shit was there.





When they would throw it out, they would say, anything you want, take it. Life Magazine. Take it. So I had my own collection of shit when I was a kid. I didn’t have to go to the library stuff. I had it in my own room. That was that aspect of it also. At the student union, they got the New York Times every day. So from a small child, I was reading the New York Times. I also read the Tampa Tribune, I think it was. I think it was Miami Herald or something. I read all those newspapers. I was one of those kids that loved reading. And science was my thing. How does this thing work? The AT&T, right downtown, where they had that big old antenna down there, me and my buddy Erago, we would be dumpster diving in there. Pulling out shit that they had down there. And they had everything, telephones, switching systems, batteries that were AC. We were into everything. So we would be ripping that stuff apart, trying to figure out how it worked and things like that. We had our own telephone system. We had field phones from the military. I don’t know where the hell we got. It may have been from the surplus store. Or it could have been the Johnsons could have given. I don’t know, but we had these field phones. So you would be ringing them up and talking to each other. So our parents, they billed the regular phone, but they got smart later on. When they would be looking for us, they would be in there with the field phones, because he had treehouse and stuff. So we had a few of them phones up in the treehouse. We in all kinds of stuff. But like I said, I had fun when I was a child. We shot marbles. Everything. Played basketball, football, like sandlot football. Get all hurt up and everything. Try to kill each other. We had a lot of open fields where we would be out there catching bees and butterflies and





stuff. The damn bees would be stinging us. Whatever that bee was over, we cap it. That bee was in there. So we would take an icepick, and that be stayed in that jar. It wasn’t opened up no more. We just had a lot of fun and stuff as a kid. It must about time for you gentlemen to leave here.

	M:	I suppose.



	D:	Yeah, I am about to do some work. I don’t know. M:	You doing what now?

	D:	Yeah, I got to do some of this work. M:	Oh right, yeah.

	D:	I am leaving up tomorrow. H:	You getting out.

	D:	Yeah, I am going to New Orleans for a couple days.



	H:	That’s okay. For a couple days is okay. What do you like about New Orleans?



Are you doing field work around there or something?



	D:	My old roommate is turning thirty. So we are doing like a birthday jam down there.

	H:	I have gone to New Orleans several times, but if I had my brothers that is not where I would be going.

[Laughter]



	H:	I haven’t been to New Orleans interestingly enough since that…what do you call it?

	M:	Hurricane.





	H:	New Orleans, I went to Mardi Gras a couple of times. I went to Mardi Gras when it was segregated, and I had a wonderful time there. The White folk scared the shit out of me then. I thought they were trying to set me up for something. I don’t know what I was doing. Maybe I was working for the government or something. I flew in, because I said I got to go to Mardi Gras. What had happened at Florida A&M, I had classmates that were from Mobile that would go to New Orleans. And I had other friends that may have been from New Orleans and stuff. They said, you got to go to Mardi Gras one year. So I flew in there one year, and I just stayed for Mardi Gras. I was ready to leave. I was going to leave after the first day. The White people in the hotels. It get better as it goes on. You got to stay another day. The final day, that is when things happen. So I stuck around, and I did. I had a wonderful time there at Mardi Gras. Because let me tell you something. When I was a child, states like Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana, they did not interest me at all. Because the only thing I had ever heard about is like things where people strung up and hung in those places. So I didn’t want nothing to do with them. I didn’t know about the crazy stuff that had happened in Florida, but I certainly wasn’t interested in learning about what was going on there, other than what I read in Ebony or…what was the other magazine? The little small one?

	D:	Jet?



	H:	Jet or Time. And it wasn’t a pretty picture. I live in the South. I am not of the South.

[Laughter]





	H:	When it came time to make my way out, I got the hell out of here. That stuff that I see my mother doing, it reminds me of the people that would be on the side of the road. I would be going up what is now 95 going to New York, these people would have these long bags. They would be out there picking cotton. And if you ever picked any cotton, cotton cuts up your hands and stuff. Just the goddamn sun would be enough to kill you. People did fieldwork. These were like migrant workers and people that picked fruit and stuff. And the local people, that’s the work that you saw Black people doing. I saw that cycle. Changed when they started introducing more machinery and stuff. But just driving up the highway going to New York, you would see all this shit, in the Carolinas particularly. You would be walking into a store or something. And you would get this White guy chewing tobacco or something nasty as a motherfuck. You ask him how much is a soda. He would say something. Oh man. Go from North Carolina or South Carolina to Louisiana or Mississippi? Shit. You got to be out of your mind. Not only that, the people you saw coming out of there. It was one way. They weren’t going back. They got to Florida, and that was it. They would act like this was a little piece of heaven here. Damn, you haven’t seen New York, have you? Or Chicago or DC? Like I said, it was interesting. You guys would have had to see what was going on during that time. It wasn’t a pretty picture. Reading about it is one thing. Seeing and smelling it and looking at the attitudes of the people, that is another whole trip. You had some nasty-ass people who were. But yeah, the racial thing was something else. But I will tell you something funny, then I got to get out of here. The city buses here in Gainesville, me and my sister, we would





get on the bus, and they would be telling some shit about how you got to stand behind some line or something. We said, “Fuck that shit. We would go ahead and sit down where we wanted to sit down on that damn bus.” Those people never did bother us though. We didn’t have to ride the bus here, because our family had cars. I don’t know how serious this stuff was on these local buses around here. But see, we grew up under change anyways. So things were changing during our time. I remember when they had them ugly-ass buses. You get on the bus, and you get to the back of the bus, that goddamn seat, it will burn your ass up. Because the engine was right up under the backseat in them. And you would get the fumes and all kind of shit coming up. And there wasn’t air-conditioning.

This was windows down. You are in your cramped up quarters back there. In the wintertime, you don’t mind riding in the back. You sit down, because it is warm back there. It might be cold in the front. They only had a few buses. The bus ride was mostly up and down University Avenue from the University of Florida to downtown. It wasn’t all that running around the city like they do now, into the neighborhoods and shit. You walked into the neighborhoods. And they always had the nastiest motherfuckers go on these buses. They would walk into some rural area and get some tobacco-chewing damn person. I don’t know where they get these people from. But one of the things that you have to say in later years, the University of Florida was a civilizing force on a lot of the crazy stuff that was going on. We had our share of racists out here, but I think because we had a lot of northern influence at the University of Florida, it turned out to be different. See, the University of Florida had a lot of Jews. And I think that the experience of





World War II wasn’t that far past them. They weren’t into a lot of inhuman treatment to anybody. So I think that they can moderated. And they also ended up being a lot of the radicals and kids and things that would be demonstrating. Anti-this and anti-that. I know that a lot of the lawyers and things that we had during the Civil Rights Era were Jewish guys. So when you look back over it, you can see these points of history coming together. Where people just wasn’t into a lot of the crazy stuff. And you would hear them say things about people’s attitudes and things. Like I said, I would go to my father’s gas station. I worked where he worked at a gas station. They did auto repair there, too. The boys would be sitting down talking and stuff. Sons of the owners, they would point out certain things. Like how people’s attitudes and stuff. The owner and his son, they always treated us very good. So if somebody did something, fuck that asshole.

That’s what they would come up and say. I said, Mr. Hayes, why did you say that? Because he is an asshole. I prefer not even have any of his business. Particularly if he said something racial or something or another, because we were around good people and stuff. And these may have been just local people, but they just wasn’t going to tolerate silliness. I know Mr. Hayes would tell people. I don’t need your business. I don’t think he was a rich man, but he was a man of means. If it was the kind of person that he didn’t like their attitude, he would let them know right up front. And I am going stay true to my words. I am going to shut up and get the hell out of here. Give you fellas the chance to do something that you got to do.

	D:	Oh no. Thank you again.





	M:	We got some questions.



	H:	But we can continue whenever you guys are ready. D:	Yeah, we need to plan to see older Welch.

	H:	Okay. Okay. I will go by and see him this week. We could go see the other Mr.



Welch, the one in the hospital.



	D:	In the hospital?



	H:	That is a good time to interview his ass when— D:	He can’t move.[Laughter]

	H:	Because he is a fascinating guy, I am telling you. You want him to tell you about his family life. I am not going to tell you nothing. I will let him tell you about. When I say his family life, I mean his family life. That dude has had at least three or four wives. Yeah. That’s why I was telling you. We have been friends a lot of that, but we are totally different kind of people. I don’t want to be speaking out of church. I am going to let him tell you about the way his little world went in. I tell you will guys one story. I don’t know all the details. He would have to tell you the details, because I thought I knew the details, but I don’t. He ended up serving about five or six years in prison as a result of some woman. Because he always had a thing about lowlife women. The guy had pulled a gun on him, and he was going to kill him. But he happened to have his gun, and he shot the dude before the dude could shoot him. But it was about a woman. He would have to tell you the story, because like I said, I don’t know all the story. I thought it was that when we was caught in a house screwing the guy’s wife, but it turned out that they were out in the street after he told me about it. The two of them were involved with the same





woman, but the dude was like a bad dude. He was the kind of dude you are supposed to be scared of. He had his equalizer. He got a drop on him before he could shoot him. But the reason that he went to jail is that he started shooting, and they didn’t stop shooting. And he ended up shooting the dude in the back, which is now funny. The judge looked at that and said, the dude was trying to get away. You were still shooting. That is murder, man, first-degree. It is not funny when somebody is losing their life, but people do stupid things. A lot of people were in jail for stupid reasons, and that was one of the ones. After I found out, I laughed about. I said, crazy, crazy. Yeah, let him tell you some stories about his life because interesting. It took a bite out of him. It changed him. I think it actually slowed him down some, because he slowed down for a while. But he got back into his old ways. But he ran with a crowd that was crazy also. Make sure you interview about some of his life, because I think you will find it fascinating.

	D:	Is he doing well? Does he have to go into surgery tomorrow?



	H:	I don’t know, because what I was about to tell you when I came back is that I got one story from him, and I got another story from his wife. And I tend to believe his wife. I think what happened, they may told him different stories. But his wife said, that she think they are going to do surgery on him. I surmise it might be some kind of blockage or something. But he didn’t know anything. He said that they have to do more tests. So I think they may have been a little bit more truthful with her than they were with him. She may have talked to the doctors, because I remember she was out there for a while the first day he was there. But I will probably go back tonight before it is too late. Not to get any information. If I didn’t





go to see him, there might not be anybody there. So I want to make sure that he don’t feel that he is forgotten while he is in there. Because like I said, we go way back. Only spend a couple of minutes, because I just wanted to check in with him when I went with him when I went by earlier, and I wanted to come back here. So I checked him, and I checked out my mother, and that was it. I said, “Okay, let me go back. I got me a sandwich. Let me go back. Because tomorrow is going to be roofing day. Already talked to my roofing man. Roofing man is going to be over there.” Me and him will be stretched out on that roof, because it is just a lot of work to do. The thing is not that big, but it is just that this one of those roofs with rock on it. What you have to do, I found out, you got to clean all those rocks off. And the rocks stick to the asphalt type stuff that is there, and all of that has to be cleaned really good before they go into the roof. And then after you get into the roof, you got to pull. It is in layers. You got to pull that stuff off the shingles.

Ignore the tar. There is rocks on top of the tar. So after you clean that, you cut the…what do you call it? Then after you cut it, there are boards up under there that are not good. So you got to take those boards out. So it is like one, two, three, four from there from the edge. So when you take those out, you got to replace them with the good ones. Then you got to put that stuff back down. There is a sheet of paper that goes down there. The roofer knows all that. I am not a roofer. I follow his instructions. He is going to be the lead man on that. That might take the rest of my goddamn week. Who know? Because you get into something like that, and you don’t know how long it is going to take. So that is it.

	D:	Thank you again.





	M:	Thank you.



	H:	Pleasure.



	D:	This was an interview it—



	M:	I guess I should this. Just for the formalities.



D:  This was the second interview with Mr. Matthis Harris. The same day as the previous interview, and Ryan Morini stepped in for this interview. And this is Justin Dunnavant talking. Thank you.

[End of recording]





	Transcribed by:	Derick Gomez, June 10, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, July 25, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019