AAHP 361; Scott; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 361 Joe Eddie Scott African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Ryan Morini on November 18, 2014 1 hour, 58 minutes | 64 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 361

Interviewee: Joe Eddie Scott Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: November 18, 2014



	M:	This is Ryan Morini from the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. I’m sitting here with Mr. Joe Eddie Scott. It’s November 18, 2014, and we’re sitting, I guess, in the living room of his house in Chiefland, Florida. Thanks for sitting down with me today. So, if we could start—your full name is Joe Eddie Scott, correct?

	S:	Right. Oh yeah.



	M:	And when were you born?



	S:	5th month, 19th day, 1940. In Ellzey, Florida. M:	In Ellzey, Florida.

	S:	E-L-L-Z-E-Y.



	M:	And so that is… that’s near Otter Creek, you were saying.



	S:	Oh yeah. Right down from Otter Creek. When you get to Otter Creek, you turn right. From here you turn right. But if you come from Gainesville, you just keep going straight. And then you’ll get to Otter Creek, and then Ellzey, and then there’s a place called Wylly, and then Rosewood. And then Sumner. And then Cedar Key.

	M:	A lot of places kind of—



	S:	Oh yeah, they always had them little places. Little, in between Gainesville and Bronson or Otter Creek is a lot of little places. Two Meteras, and Lebanon, and all had a little stop. Turpentine hollows here, now. People lived in them places. Lot of people got killed on the road. Where the railroad sign the wrong way.

When that, during the Rosewood thing, you know. One guy, name—they call him “God-Knows.” And they shot him during this time. Several other people, they





don’t have no name, oral history, but if they saw you on the road, a Black person, you were shot. Was a lot of people that was coming to Rosewood, but not really from Rosewood, but they was coming from South Carolina, Texas, all around down there. See, at that time, you could do all that junk, you know, and get away with it. Now, nobody can do it so [inaudible: 2:11] now, but they done it. Well anyway, Momma and them was in Ellzey, and they had to be—they working for the West brothers. And the road, people was coming to Ellzey, out of town, didn’t know Ellzey from Rosewood. So, Momma and them had to be guarded.

You see, the boss man guarded them because he needed them to work. So that’s why he’d protect them, see. And the commissary was the place where they kept the food for the hands, and for horses and things. You know, they had hay in there, and feed, and all that in there. So Momma and them had to stay in there. See, to keep the people from killing them, because they could see our houses from where they was. There was two quarters, but one you couldn’t see. Where we lived at, you could see. And one other thing about Ellzey, at one time it had the smallest post office in the whole United States. That’s in the history. If that’s any good in the history book. But it was right there in Ellzey. So… [Laughter] But, then, this thing went on for about a week, you know. And I had a sister, a little sister got smothered out there. She was a baby. And Momma didn’t never, she didn’t have no name. Momma hadn’t named her. But she got smothered out there, because they was all, there was so many of them in that area. It was hot, you know? And they wouldn’t let them out. And all them was laying in there, trying to survive, and this baby being like that… you know? And





I’ll go onto the history, the record. And she was buried in Otter Creek. They had a graveyard down in Otter Creek. I think they dug that graveyard up, which was against the law. But I was, I was too young to do anything about it when this happened. I didn’t know that wasn’t right. But my mother’s brothers, grandmothers—a lot of other people is buried there in Otter Creek. And, so, I plan on checking on that, but I don’t know who to talk to about it.

	M:	Who dug that up?



	S:	The timber company. M:	Oh. Okay.

	S:	So they was cutting the trees, because a lot of trees had growed up out there, so—of course, they had tombstones out there, but that didn’t make no difference to them. They was in the money business, and they done planted more trees out there since then, and done cut them, since that time. Because that been many, many years ago. Like I said, I was too young. Now I’m 74 years old. That happened way, way, way back.

	M:	Do you have any idea around the time period that it would have happened? [19]50s, [19]60s?

	S:	In about the [19]50s. In the [19]50s. Late [19]50s. But it happened. I was intending to talk to—there’s a historian in Levy County somewhere or another, I was going to ask them, could she do anything to help me find out something about it. Because that’s still—that’s really where I grew up at, is in Otter Creek, because I got some land down there now, little old spot there. In Otter Creek.

Otter Creek next to Ellzey, you know. But… other than that, Momma and them,





for days—for a week at a time, like I say, they stayed in that closed-up area. Couldn’t get out. And peoples was—when the Whites load the train, they only picked up women. They only picked up women. And not the men. You know, a lot of men got away. And anyway, but after they caught one of them, then they’d lynch them. And now, the sheriff, he got a lot of them, okay? A lot of them to Archer, Gainesville, some of them come to here in Chiefland. Some went to Otter Creek and hid and stayed there. The Bradleys. Some of them went to Otter Creek.

	M:	So the sheriff helped the people, then.



	S:	They say. Say he did. I didn’t think he did, but the records say he did. I don’t know. [Laughter].

	M:	Where were they closed up in? Where everyone was pressed together. This is the camp in Ellzey, right?

	S:	This is the little commissary, they called it. M:	Oh, so that’s what they’re—oh, okay.

	S:	Yeah. Commissary, where the food was, they call it the commissary, you know. M:	And so all the workers were in there.

	S:	All the people that lived in that area. On that side of the—in the quarters, they had what we called the quarters, you know. You had houses there. So everybody stayed in the boss man’ houses, you see? And so, then they had to get them out of the quarters. And bring them up there where they could guard them, because—like I said, because a lot of people coming from different areas, out of state, was coming down there, and they didn’t know Ellzey from—it didn’t make





no difference to them no way. See, the people that lived in Rosewood knew Ellzey. But the people that would come from out of state, all they want to see is a Black person. And they will shoot them. See? Now, I just read that [inaudible: 7:18] about this man. They called him God-Knows. They shot him down on the road. Go on and on and on, you know.

	M:	Garden Nose?



	S:	That was his nickname. They called him God-Knows, you know, because they always had those nicknames in the quarters, you know. [Laughter]. God-Knows. Because every time they asked him something, they’d say—I didn’t know him, you know, I heard other people talk about him—but it was, his name is in this story I got. But, he, everything you ask him, he would say, “God knows.” So that’s why they start calling him God-Knows. [Laughter] Yep. So, I live long enough— and a lot of people live long enough that I’ve met. I met about three of those, Mr. Hall, and Ms., this lady here, that you’ve met.

	M:	Oh, Mary Daniels. Mary Hall Daniels, yeah.



	S:	Right, Ms. Daniels. I met, you know, I know I met her. There’s another lady there, I can’t recall her name, but she went down to Rosewood. We had a big day down there. We had people from Tallahassee came down. And she was there. And she died right after that. And they found another lady in Detroit; Ms. DuPree know about her. And I saw it in a book I had. But she didn’t want nobody to tell where she was or where she’d come until she died. That’s in recent years. About a couple years ago. I had it in a Jet Magazine, I saw it. Ms. DuPree, I asked her about it, she said, “Yeah.” And she the one told me about some of it. She didn’t





want nobody to know, you know, that she come from Rosewood. But they was still—had that fear you see. Because they knowed the rules, that they didn’t have no rights, and they thought people would still kill them for that because they come from Rosewood. They hadn’t done anything, but hid. Arnette Doctor. I know you heard about him. His mother was down there. And she didn’t want him to tell, until she died, about Rosewood. And he didn’t. When she died, that’s when the—well, the story broke because this guy from St. Petersburg was in Cedar Key. He the one wrote the story. He went down there about something else, and then they got talking to old-old timers, and they got to talking about Rosewood. The massacre that happened in Rosewood. And he said, “Oh!” He forgot what he went down there for, you know! [Laughter] But he said it was one of the greatest stories ever been told. This is in 1982, I believe it was. Because most of the people, like the older people that knew about Rosewood now, is dead around here. I’m the youngest, I’m one of the youngest, but I like history.

Sumner history. We like to read and talk about it. So most peoples’ll talk to me, because I’ll talk about it. Most of the people don’t know. And go on and on and on. Rosewood. That was a bad time. But I think… I don’t blame the people for doing what they done. I blame the government for failing to protect our rights.

You see? Because after we were freed one time, because of bad politics, they put us right back under worser bondage than we had when we was in slavery. At one time, we were freed. We had countrymen [Congressmen?] all through these woods. I’m sure somebody gave you, told you about all those guys. But we had a Congressman from around Alachua [inaudible: 11:08]. But then, they, when the





Democratic party—which, I’m a member of that party—they sold out years ago. In order to gain power. Because we was all Republicans. Because Republican the ones freed the Blacks. And so we voted Republican until the [19]30s, until Hoover got in there and starved everybody to death, they say. Momma was here at that time. So that’s why we start voting Democrat, but we was all Republicans. But getting back to Rosewood, I guess when all these people survived Rosewood—the women, some of the men, went through the woods, and got all scratched up. The Bradleys, some of them went to Miami. Because they was well-educated people. Now, Rosewood was a place where Black peoples had their own stuff down there. Churches, Masonic Hall, school—all owned by Blacks. See, they had things that the Whites didn’t have. Like pianos. They didn’t have that. If you look at that picture, Rosewood—if you ever seen it—you know one of the guys went to Sylvester Carrier’ house, and they had a big piano, you see. “Oh, man! They got a piano in the house?” He call ‘em the n-word, you know. [Laughter] But these guys were well-educated, like the Bradleys. Now, I knew some of them. Now, one of the original Bradleys, Nathan Bradley—we always called him “Nater,” but his name was Nathan Bradley—he had a daughter, well, his daughter Janice, I talk to her all the time. She lives in Miami now. And they comes here all the time. We have a Rosewood tour group come through. And her husband, he’s over there. Him and her. And so I talk with them all the time. We good friends and everything. But she just stayed down there with her aunt—her daddy’s sister. Lee Ruth Davis. She was from Rosewood. And they was, she worked at the school, school teacher or something. I don’t know





what she was. But they was kind of well-educated people down there. That’s some of the people that I knew. Several more people that I’ve seen in that area, in Sumner and all. They come in Chiefland and live, like the Prices, and all of them. They all dead now. Reverend Price. He was a peg-legged man. But he was a preacher. He could preach. Preach pretty good.

	M:	And he lived, he was from Rosewood or—



	S:	He from Sumner, which is next to Rosewood. See, Cummer Lumber Company had a sawmill there. And the sawmill moved to Otter Creek later on. Cummer Lumber Company. And after they left Otter Creek, they went to—oh, shoot, name of that place down south, there. I can’t remember nothing, my memory’s getting shelled. Oh, memory! Oh, it’ll come to me in a minute. But it right down south there. One of the guys I was just talking about, Mr. Hall, that’s where he went. He went down there. And that’s where he died at, when he was about a hundred years old. And then another died in Leesburg, down there. So they still scattered all out. But none of ‘em want to talk about it. They don’t want to talk about it.

Now, Momma always talked about it. She always used to tell, sit down and tell us about Rosewood. And she wasn’t afraid—afraid to talk to them. Most of the people wouldn’t talk about it. Didn’t want to talk about it. Period. Especially the ones that was near it. And of course, she was just about as near as you could get: ten miles, just this side of it. But they was, some of them was in Sumner, and some was out to Janney, little place out there called Janney, and they, you ask them something about it, they, “Nah.” Unh-uh. Especially the older ones: “No.” They were still scared right on. You know, that’s the bad thing about this history.





So, many things happened. Now—I guess you’re interested in Rosewood, but you know, there’s other history happened around here.

	M:	I’m interested in all the history.



	S:	Like, you know, the slaves. You know, they were freed by a Black man right here in Levy County. And old slave houses are right down the, right down—you can almost see from here. Right down the road there, two-story building. He came down Suwannee River, with the bluecoats. Man named Jerry Goldwire. And he freed the slaves right out this house down here. Right about—they got a place in the graveyard out there where nobody can be buried there but Blacks. Spot there. Because he had that for his slaves, because he had no idea they’d be freed. But it’s still there. Nobody can be buried in that spot. But his name was Isaac Hardy. But a guy named Jerry Goldwire freed the slaves, got them out this house, and he married one of his cooks. Probably was a daughter, I imagine.

You know? Isaac Hardy. Because they’ve always got children by they maids and stuff, you know. And they done all that stuff, and they, uh— [Laughter] But he married. So he bought some land here on 27th, a big church. When you go back out, go around 24. Get right outside of Chiefland, and look to your left. Well, you probably seen it and paid no attention, probably. There’s a big church there. He owned and bought that land there, at that one time. So he left it for the children, but they sold it. They owned historical land. Jerry Goldwire. But he freed the slaves right here in Chiefland. And all up through Alachua, and all up Waldo, all up through there. Bluecoats follow all the way up. They were there.

	M:	Where’d he come from?





	S:	Nobody know. Most people say—some people say he come from Chicago, and some people say he come from Mississippi. But I think that’s where he come from, Mississippi. Because they was in the South, so they joined the—because a lot of the, ought to understand, a lot of the slaves had owned land and stuff, so they fought with—I mean, some of the people that was during this time, they wasn’t slaves, but they owned slaves, too. See, Black peoples owned slaves, too. You see? At one time. And so a lot of them had land and stuff, so they fought with the, for the South, the Rebels, you see? But then, then they switched, and started following the Bluecoats, for they rights. They was fighting for they land then, but they wasn’t fighting for no rights. Then they realized that land is one thing, and having your rights is another. [Laughter] You know? And when they found out, somebody sensed the men, too, so they stopped by with the Bluecoats. That’s why they donned the bluecoat: they knowed all about the area, where to go at and all that stuff. And so that’s why, that’s another thing turning the tide. They probably won’t tell you that in the history—real history. Sometimes, somebody will mention something, you know, a little bit, but they’ll cut it off. See, that what turned the tide, really. They’ll say, “No, what turned the tide was what happened in Gettysburg” or somewhere or other. [Laughter] But, so that’s how we were freed right here in Levy County and Chiefland. And this area, really. At that one time, lot of the land—most of the land right here was owned by Black people. We got a graveyard right across the field there, given to them by Blacks.

	M:	Okay.





	S:	Yeah. We give them the land, and they got one—two out there now. What we call—on the outskirts, see, we got names for it. High Woods and Adamsville, they got two graveyards out there. And Blacks donated for graveyards from their own land and stuff. And on the river, Suwannee River, lot of Blacks owned land on Suwannee River at one time. Now they don’t own there. We got one family still own they land down there. But now, you can’t buy down there because it’s so high. You know? But they owned at one time. So, done pretty good. And lot of them got educated. Lot of them left and went north. They didn’t want to stay down here no more. So they sold they land—gave it away, really.

	M:	And never came back?



	S:	Some of them come back when they’s old. Because a few of them still had a little spot. Or some of they relative kept some of they land, so they’d come here and buy a piece of their land and move back in. Because a lot of times, when they left here, they didn’t never have no idea that, you know, things going be better than it was when they left. Because when they left here, you couldn’t hardly go uptown until probably on Saturday and lean you’d go up there. And all the way you could get—you got by with a lot of things because you worked for Mr. So-and-so, and if you worked for him, they couldn’t bother you as bad. I mean, you know, you still didn’t have no rights. But they couldn’t bother you because you worked for Mr.

So-and-so. So, he done already told them, “Don’t bother my boys.” He didn’t say “boys,” he’d use the N-word. “Don’t bother them.” And so they wouldn’t bother you. They ask you who you work for, you tell them, they wouldn’t bother you. I mean, they’d put you in jail all the time—and sometimes, he’d have them put you





in jail! Just to keep you, have you ready for work Monday morning. All that stuff. [Laughter] At one time, in Levy County, you couldn’t go no further than the 8th grade. And when you finished 8th grade, you either had to go to Ocala—they had one school in Ocala, Howard Academy—and then in Gainesville, at Lincoln.

That’s why the Blacks had to leave here, and either stay up there with somebody, or ride their bicycles or something. So many boys rode they bicycles over there. And that’s—some of that been in my times, since when I was a little boy. I mean, I was small, you know. But I remember that.

	M:	Did any of the Whites in the area keep people from going to high school? Or if you wanted to, could you go?

	S:	Oh, no, you couldn’t go to the White school, no.



	M:	No—no, I mean, from going over to Lincoln, or from here over to—



	S:	No, no. No, they didn’t try to keep you. But what they’d do, they’d tell your parents, “Look, I need that boy to work.” You know, if you stayed in they house, they’ll put pressure on you, because a lot of the Blacks wanted their children to get education. They really did. They believed in that. Then, some of them, they just thought, “We’ve got to work for this man, because I work for him, and he needs you to work.” And so some of them would hold they children back, because you had some lazy ones like you do now that didn’t want to go to school, and they didn’t go. They didn’t realize that one of these days, they was going need an education. You need an education, because you need to write your name, because a lot of the old people couldn’t write they name. They’d make a “X,” you know. Things like that. Yeah, but we was always instrumental in





people getting an education. Always. But, they couldn’t do it, because they didn’t have all these different ways to go to school. Because you can go to school now. You can get these loans and things. Scholarship if you’re pretty smart.

M:  Yeah. What were the schools like here then? S:  Good schools.

M:   Okay.



	S:	Wasn’t nothing wrong with the school, we just couldn’t go no farther. Because they didn’t have no high school in Levy County at one time. They didn’t really build a high school—we had one in Williston later on. They got a little building over there. Then they finally built a high school, I think that was in 1954 or sometime there, I don’t know what year it was. [19]48, something. I don’t know. But no, you couldn’t go no further than 8th grade in Chiefland and Otter Creek. In this area, really. Because we had some teachers here. Some of them still living at the buoys. She had to go to, she finished school in Cincinnati. Her brother was up there, so she went up there to finish school. And later on, later years, she went to school to be a school teacher, so she came back here. And taught some of the same children and grandchildren that they daddy wouldn’t let her go to school. First school in Levy County, because they had no high school for them, the kids, you know. And she’s still living right on. Several of them, you know. So all these kind of things happened. So many other things happened, I can’t think of—oh, I know what I was talking about, is where that sawmill went to, a place called Lacoochee.

M:   Lacoochee.





	S:	Yeah, that’s where Cummer went. Lacoochee, Florida. Yep. That’s where Mr.



Hall died at, down there in Lacoochee.



	M:	I see. And so you were saying, Ellzey—your mother was living at a turpentine camp. Is that right?

	S:	Oh yeah. Right. Yeah.



	M:	So this is all sawmills and turpentine is kind of what it sounds like—



	S:	Wasn’t no sawmill in Ellzey, but it was one in Sumner, then they had one in Otter Creek. And all around, little old mangroves, we called them, down side the road, you get jobs there, you done work. And Cummer moved, Cummer’s lumber company moved from Sumner to Otter Creek. And so they had a big—I mean, a lot of people worked there. It was a big thing. And later on.

	M:	And it was mostly Black workers at that—



S:  Most of them, yeah. Most of them was. Yeah. M:  Okay.

S:  Oh yeah. They wasn’t really paying you a whole lot of money, you know. Then they had another, they’ve got another sawmill in Gulf Hammock called Pat and Mac.

M:   Pat and Mac.



	S:	Pat and Mac. Billy Patterson and the other Mac a McInnis, McInnis. So they called it “Pat and Mac,” in Gulf Hammock. I think I told you at first, Gulf Hammock was named Gunntown. They changed the name right they going to patent to Gulf Hammock. That was Billy Patterson and them, that there. Yeah.

	M:	Around when was that, do you know?





	S:	What’s that?



	M:	Around what time?



	S:	I think that was in the 19—probably, I think it’s in [19]20-something, be 1923, [192]4, sometime. I don’t know.

	M:	Somewhere back in there.



	S:	Yeah, you know. Got no oral history you know. But it was Gunntown. Momma used to talk about it all the time. A lot of the old people that lived down there, when they came down to Gulf Hammock, it was called Gunntown. Yeah. Gulf Hammock used to be a lot of people there. They had a big commissary there, too. But they had everything in there you needed. They had a walkway all the way around there. You walk all the way around that big store. I mean, it was a big thing. And they had one doctor there, Doctor Pat-and-Mac, we called him. He one of the best in the world. He’d cuss you out, but he was good. Then they had a big motel there right across the road, where a lot of people stayed there, in that motel. Now you go down there, you don’t think that never been there. And they had a big quarters there. You know that—and peoples there, used to be a lot of people down there. I mean a world of people. Yep, Black and White. They worked at the sawmill.

	M:	So that was—so you grew up in Ellzey, too? Or you were just born there? S:	I was born there, and I stayed until we left there in 1954, and moved to Otter

Creek. Because Otter Creek and Ellzey was mainly the same place. They’re only two miles apart. So we always go there just about every day, walking, you know, whatever, we’d go there and buy stuff from the store. Because the commissary





didn’t open all the time. Just once a week, probably. Friday, and then Saturday, like that. Now, you could go out there and get something sometime when somebody was there, but you would go up by Otter Creek and done our shopping and stuff, and sometime we went to Gainesville. Five-and-ten cent stores was uptown, all the stores uptown there. Short and Key and all them places, right uptown. And that’s where you shopped at. There wasn’t no big thing that they got now. [Laughter]. Take the bus out there going to Gainesville, it was about 35 cent on the bus. Oh, yeah.

	M:	Well, so those were kind of the places to go shopping, were—Gulf Hammock and Gainesville, then, were kind of your two—

	S:	Yeah, right. You could go to Gulf Hammock if you wanted to go down there and get certain things, you’d go down to get almost anything, really. Or sometime you’d go to Gainesville, because lot of times things were a little bit cheaper.

Because they called the five-and-ten cent—probably wasn’t really called the five- and-ten cent, it sound like it was cheaper, you know? So they’d say five-and-ten cents. [Laughter] Always was a catch, you know?

	M:	That’s how they get you.



	S:	Oh yeah, they get you one way or the other, you know? Momma used to catch the bus, and sometime I’d go with her, a lot of times. Because that time, you had to go all the way around, all the way around through Mississippi to get to Gainesville. The bus will go straight to Gainesville, see? Now, you get on the bus up here in Chiefland, now you may have to go all the way around through Gainesville, Palatka, and everywhere else to get to St. Petersburg, you know?





Then, when it was a straight shot. [Laughter] Just one bus, that’s it. But all these things was, it was good. And it was bad. Bad part is, you just didn’t have no freedom. People would come to your house and take you out the house and arrest you. So anything somebody said, you know? They say if you don’t working for the right person, you went to jail for life. Now, if you killed somebody on the average day, you had to go to jail, now. But normally, they wouldn’t bother you, because they wasn’t hardly do too much to you. Killing one another, you know.

	M:	But only if you were working for the right—



	S:	Yeah. Working with So-and-so now, you probably wouldn’t go nowhere. That saved a lot of peoples at the time. Especially, I mean the Black population, the Black men. Yeah, you were safe like that, because why? Because he was next to like an animal. Because they needed you to work. There wasn’t no—and that wasn’t automation like they got now. They don’t need you now. But things different, anyway. But back in those days, they needed you. Because everything, most of it was done manually. In the field, you had to pull peanuts, you had to pick cotton—they didn’t have no cotton here. But you pick peas, and shuck peanuts. I shucked peanuts, or tobacco. In my day, I think a lot of peanuts I shuck. I was about eleven years old. 1951, I believe it was. So they got, finally bought a peanut picker. They had, was trying one out. And so you’d stack them on a pole. That’s the way they done peanuts back in those days, ‘til they dried.

Now you got the dryers, you got everything. You don’t need nobody now. One person can go out there with a machine, and they’ll—like that field out there, that’s eighty acres right there. Out there. They got, that’s eighty acres right there,





and they come out there one night, and got all the peanuts out in one night. Eighty acres of peanuts. Things like that. So back in those days, I think they paid us four dollars a day.

	M:	For the peanuts.



	S:	Yeah. Oh, yeah. That was hard work.



	M:	Were peanuts the big crop around here, or were there different—



	S:	Oh, yeah! Peanuts still the big crop. Peanuts a big crop everywhere. [Laughter] I mean, if you plant some. Only thing now about it, is that the government took the limit off, and said you can plant all the peanuts you want to. Price is not as high, they say, as it used to be. But you still make a heap of money. That’s a big crop. Yeah. You would plant five or six thousand acres, one person, you know, may have five, six thousand acres. Watermelon, things like that. That’s still a big business, too. And the logging business would still be, although you don’t need nearly as many people. You know, you can take two peoples or three peoples and do what 25 or 30 used to do years ago, you see. Because you’ve got machines and stuff. Some of them machines just like a car. Inside, you got the radio, heater, record player, and you punch buttons. You know, you don’t have to turn no sawing wheel or nothing. Just punch them buttons, things go. And you sitting up in there, still got your nice shirt on. [Laughter] Really. And you don’t have to worry about it.

	M:	Different scene.



	S:	Oh, yeah! But that’s, things have changed. For some of us, it changed and something, and then, some people still don’t—now, and in this modern day, now,





I think one of the problems we having, we got so many young people that’s having children in these small areas. I don’t know about Gainesville, but they don’t put no effort in they kids’ education. We need to do more of that. They need to go to school. Because you got so much competition out there now. You got different people coming in, Indians and Mexicans and all of that. So you got to compete with them for jobs. And a lot of them, especially Indians, a lot of them come here, they already got plenty of money when they come over here. Or the government give them a break, tax break, for ten years, or—they say. And they come over here with gold, and cash it in, and buy up all the little midget markets, and stores and everything else, you know? So you have to be educated now to get in there.

	M:	What kind of effort do you remember the community putting into your education or the kids you grew up with?

	S:	Well, most of the older people that was able, they always pushed—in spite of what we said now, about we don’t, not interested in education—yes they was, too. They was interested, because lot of them washed people clothes, ironed with a iron that you had to put to the fireplace. Had to build a fire, hot or cold, put a iron there, and then iron all them shirts and things for White people. Worked for a few dollars, and you took that money, then you send your child to school. You see? With that money. They done it. See, I know that. Yeah, they was interested. And a lot of them couldn’t read and write, either. Lot of the old people. Especially the men. They couldn’t read, write, but they know about education. And they’d talk about these days; they’d bring you, say, “Boy, it’s going to be better after a





while! Better get some education!” And all of that stuff. And they’d make they children go. But a lot of them didn’t want to stay around this place, because people treating them so bad. And if they thought you looked at a White woman or something, they might put you in jail or beat you or something. Just for the heck of it. They use all them excuse.

	M:	Did you see that happen?



	S:	Oh, yeah. It happened, yeah. I’ve seen that happen. I’ve seen that myself. Yeah.



And they could just say, “Well, you felt her hand,” or something about, woman gave you some change or something, and she put it in your hand or something, they say, “You felt her hand!” All you doing is trying to keep your money from falling out, you know? Because they watch you. All them things happened, now. These not false accusation. They happened, you see.

	M:	Was it usually the same people who would make those accusations, or…?



	S:	Sometimes it would be. Sometimes, it would be the law. They’d be standing around looking. Yeah. Yessir. And then sometimes it’d be your ordinary citizens.

	M:	Could be anybody.



	S:	Oh, yeah. That’s right.



	M:	So what were the police like around—were there any Black police?



	S:	No, no. Oh, no! Not at that time, not for a long time. Then they finally got one.



You know, recently, after 1965, when things started to change just a little bit. You know, you’ve got practice civil rights, Johnson signed the Civil Rights Bill, and then it took a couple, a year or two, for it to come into effect. Then you see a Black policeman here. Cross City and Chiefland, Chiefland had one for a long





time. Alfred Bryan, he just died a few years ago. But he had to leave and go— he went down to Lacoochee, too, and got a job down in Okeechobee down there, in that area. And he died down there. But he was a good officer. Now, it’s sort of… I mean, we got one on the police force over there in Bronson now, I think. I know we got one. Because they had one just retired. But it ain’t been a whole lot of people in Levy County that been on the force.

	M:	Did that first officer make a difference at all, or…? S:	Little different. Made a little difference. Yeah.

	M:	But it was mostly the cops would kind of work with—yeah.



	S:	Well, when he got on there, I mean, people couldn’t do all the things they wanted to, because they had to respect him as a position—to a certain extent, you know. And, but yeah, it made it a little different. Little different. Because he was a good guy hisself. I mean, if you needed to go to jail, he’d tell you. But he didn’t just hound you, you know. If he stopped you or something, lot of time he’d talk to you. Give you some good advice and stuff about the law. And just wouldn’t hound you to death. And wouldn’t whip you just for the heck of it. Because after 1965, on down, it was kind of difficult. People started to change they attitude toward the police, too, because you still can’t mess with the police any kind of way. And I don’t agree with anybody shooting the police or messing with them any kind of way. Because they still the police, whether you like what he say or not. You know? But they ain’t as bad as they once was. They still do some crooked things, some of them.

	M:	Even today.





	S:	Oh, yeah! Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yep, yep, yep. But things has changed. I mean, I’ve seen some big change in my lifetime, because a lot of places we used to couldn’t go, even in the front door. In my lifetime. Now, you can go in these places and eat, and nobody bother you. Nobody’s thinking about it I don’t guess, if they think about it, they don’t say nothing. People waiting on you, and that’s nice, instead of going to the peephole, get your sandwich or something or a dinner. Then you had to wait until everybody else get waited on before they could get to you. And people that cooked in the kitchen, or the waitress, too. See, they did double duty for one price. You see? All that happened. But they had no choice; some of them had to work. Now, they don’t, it’s different. Yeah.

	M:	That makes sense. Can I ask what your mother’s name was, by the way? S:	Vera Scott.

	M:	Vera Scott. Okay.



	S:	Yeah, Vera Scott. And my daddy’s name was Eddie Scott. And everybody called him “Buddy,” but his name was Eddie. Eddie Scott.

	M:	And what was your mother’s maiden name, do you know? S:	Alvera McRae.

	M:	McRae. Okay.



	S:	Yeah. Name was—we called her Vera, but her name was Alvera McRae. And she come up from a place called Sanderson, Florida. That’s up here by MacClenny, back in there. And Papa come from a place, raised near a place called Fargo, Georgia. Now, he and Momma met when they were children back up there. He was sixteen and Momma was thirteen. That’s when they got





married. And they had to run away to—I don’t know whether you heard anything about the Nabs. Used to be a group of people named the Nabs, family up there, they owned a big turpentine outfit, and logs, and all they own the whole shebang around MacClenny and all back up in there. And Momma never had a—my mother’s momma name was Sarah McRae. She was living over here in Chiefland. She had got, journeyed down there. But Momma and Papa had to run away from up there. Because you couldn’t walk off them places like, you know, you probably say well up and leave. If you were a good worker, they wouldn’t let you leave. So Momma and him left there that night, left all they stuff. She said they went through the woods running. Her and Papa. And they was, they heard the horses coming at ‘em. Looking for ‘em. And they got away, and they run all the way, and some kind of way, they got down here on the back side of Chiefland, back out here. Place called Janney. And that’s where my momma was, Sarah McRae. She was buried in Otter Creek. That’s why I was saying, they dug up a cemetery there in Otter Creek. That’s why I wanted to—I’ve been thinking about it here, lately. Later years, you know, about it. I’m looking for somebody that I could talk to—there’s still, there’s a lady here somewhere, she’s a historian. Somebody that got some clout, that might could tell me something.

	M:	One of my colleagues, actually, is an archaeologist. He’s worked on Black cemeteries and things, he worked on one in Maryland. He might be able to help with some of that. He’s used to doing the research on—





	S:	Yeah. Okay, I’ll [inaudible 42:20], I want to know. Because I guess statute of limitations done run out about doing anything about it, but I still, I would like to—I know about where the cemetery was in Otter Creek.

	M:	Okay.



	S:	And I’d just like to know what, you know, what could I do about it, or something about it. But it was there. Lot of people buried in that cemetery.

	M:	Maybe—okay, yeah, maybe we can take a trip out there sometime, if you’re okay with that. We’ll look up… there might be some things we could do. Wow. But, so your grandmother was buried out there, then.

	S:	Oh, yeah. My momma, my momma’s brother, grandma, and one of the children, one of the daughters is buried out there. Yeah, lot of other people buried there too. It’s a pretty good-sized graveyard.

	M:	Was your grandmother—were your grandparents also from Florida? Or, your father, you said, was from—

	S:	Momma, her mother was from over there around Sanderson, too. But she had moved from up there, and come down—her and her husband had come down to Janney looking for work. I guess he looking for more work, he got away from there some reason or other. So after Momma and Papa married, she been a young girl, but they married young, you know, back in them days. She was thirteen, he was sixteen. And so they stayed there, but they wanted to leave, and she wanted to come where her momma was, and they couldn’t just walk off that turpentine place. [Laughter] They won’t let you do it. So that’s why they run that





night and left all their furniture and stuff. Still there. Yeah, you couldn’t do it. Still couldn’t.

	M:	Did she talk much about that turpentine camp up there? Did she tell you much about it?

	S:	Well, she didn’t just like the way they were treated up there in the Nab and all. She didn’t get into too much oral history about Nab, no more. They owned the whole territory. When you have one or two peoples own the whole territory, well, they had clout, you see. And whatever they said, that was it. Treat you like they wanted to, , all that stuff. So that’s why she, they run away from there. So they got tired of it, so they couldn’t say, “Well, I’m off. I’m gonna leave. Load up my stuff and I’m going.” You know, “You ain’t. No sir, you not. You’re not going anywhere!” [Laughter] And that was that! No sir, you couldn’t go.

	M:	Did she talk much about why she married your father? They just—



	S:	Just—I guess they met. [Laughter] It’s what children do, you know, young people.



And they young. And… Didn’t have no children at the time, no children born at the time.

	M:	So what did they do when they met up with her mother?



	S:	Well, they stayed here then. In Janney right back out there, so then they went on to, over there to Ellzey and got some work there, and started turpentining, and Papa hauling cross ties and things. Because he wasn’t very big, but he— somebody told me, in fact I know for myself, he could tote a cross tie, too. That’s right. And he was short. Shorter than me. But he was a man. People couldn’t





understand it. How could a little man like that do what he does? But he could do it. That’s right.

	M:	Strong guy.



	S:	And he done it. Yep.



	M:	Was that his whole life, working turpentine?



	S:	Well, yeah, turpentine, and sawmill after, after he left. He and my momma broke up, so then he left. He started going to different places. Because he didn’t have no education neither. See? But he always had what you call—we called it in the country “mother wit.” But then, they call it now “common sense.” He always had common sense. He could load up, he had to haul that turpentine in barrels and stuff, to Jacksonville. That turpentine, when they put it in the barrel, then they had a big plant up in Jacksonville where they always get they turpentine out of the gum. That’s where it come from. And he’d go all the way to Jacksonville, all the way to that place out there. Just ride with nobody with him, couldn’t read a lick, but he knowed how to do it. I don’t know how he do it, myself. Big old truck, too. And he had to load the turpentine up there, come on back. Done it heap of times—hundreds of times. Sure would. Yep. He got more sense than me about that. I can read, and I get to Jacksonville, I get lost. [Laughter].

	M:	So, I mean, it sounds like your father was a fairly skilled worker with turpentine.



	S:	Well, he could do all that kind of stuff. He didn’t—now, turpentine was the kind of thing, he didn’t do a whole lot of that. But he worked around it. He did, like hauling the turpentine to Jacksonville, and other people done that part. But he mostly was, worked in the woods, like hauling short logs; at that time, you loaded





them, didn’t have no pickup stuff then. Skidders and things. And he done that and cross ties. He done that kind of stuff. Then if they need to carry a load of gum to Jacksonville, then Mr. West and them would let him, tell him to take that truck and go on to Jacksonville. And he’d do it. Nobody understood how he could do it, because he couldn’t read and write. I mean, he had common sense and things. And he had a good hope with old man Key over in Gainesville. I don’t know if you ever heard tell of Shorton Key, now. Used to have a Ford company there. Shorton Keener. Ford. They had a big place right uptown. They got a big old building right up there now. Right uptown there, on Main Street. All I know [inaudible: 48:32] it’s called Keeter Building, or whatever. But they were the big people in Gainesville. And Papa used to go there and any time he wanted a car, he’d go to Mr. Keener and get it. I don’t know how he done it, don’t ask me, I don’t know. Until this day. He’d go down Saturday, go get a car, Mr. Keener let him have it. Sure would.

	M:	Was it tough to keep a car out here? I mean—



	S:	Nah, not really. Well, you paid—well, at the time, whatever you paid was a lot of money. [Laughter] You know, but you weren’t making that much. Not at that time. You made enough to live out of, if you skitch back. But yeah, you could keep it if you treat your car right.

	M:	And you didn’t get hassled by anyone if your car was especially nice, or—? S:	Oh, certain cars you couldn’t get. Yeah, you stayed in the Ford, Chevrolet.

People didn’t bother you. I know in recent years, I know a man, worked for a man around here, a rich man, and this rich man, he always drove Cadillac. And he





told the guy worked for him, this guy was well-educated, too, because his wife used to be my teacher. One of our teachers. He had a little money, but he worked for him, just be around with him. He was a big-timer, too. And he told him, “Now, you can get any kind of car you want, but don’t get no Cadillac.” That’s right! So he went and got him a [19]98 Oldsmobile. Now, what the man didn’t know, Oldsmobile and Cadillac the same car. Different names. They is, same car. But that man bought a [19]98, what they call a [19]98 Oldsmobile. Big ones. They had big ones then. That’s right. He didn’t say nothing. As long as he—that’s right, don’t go get no Cadillac. No, sir. No, you couldn’t get no Cadillac. No-o! Get your Ford, Chevrolet. Maybe a Pontiac. Because Pontiac was a nice-looking car, too. You know, and you—long as you stayed in that area, you was all right. But you got anything over that, every time you get on the road, you get stopped. [Laughter] “Boy, where you get this car from? Whose car is that?” And all that stuff, you know.

	M:	Do you remember that happening to people?



	S:	Oh, yeah. Yeah, I remember that. I can remember all that, yeah. M:	So people still would try to get a Cadillac, and then…

	S:	Well, some of them, they wouldn’t get it. Not around here. Nah. But they’d get, you know, they’d get close as they could. [Laughter] But everybody liked the Cadillac because that was a big-name car at the time. Still is, but it was sure enough big name, because you didn’t see too many Black people in this area with no Cadillac. No! [Laughter] And not too many other places. But that was just, that’s the way life was? It was, had its ups and downs, but we made it.





	M:	Mm-hm. Were the—I mean, were the roads good out here, or did you have a lot of trouble with flats and things? What were the—were the dirt roads a problem, ever?

	S:	When it rained, it would be. Because this all right here used to be a dirt road.



Because I wasn’t living here then. But it used to be a dirt road. I remember when it was a dirt road. And they finally paved it, the county did. And yeah. All these roads over right here was dirt roads. They paved a lot of them. Later on, after other people started moving in on these roads, so they paved some of them.

	M:	That makes sense. So, when your parents split up, did your mother stay in Ellzey there?

	S:	Oh, yeah, she stayed in Ellzey, right on. And then we later moved to Otter Creek.



	M:	What did she do in Ellzey? Like, what was her, what kind of work did she do there?

	S:	She did the washing and ironing, and worked in people’s houses and things. And she done—yeah, that’s what she done.

	M:	So she did kind of domestic and laundry—



	S:	Domestic, yeah. That’s what she was, yeah. Cooked for them, and wash they clothes and things. And she made it. She had some White people that helped with her. Help her because we fifteen head of us. And all, was all of them, some of them was dead. I had two older brothers that was dead that was buried at Otter Creek, too. They name was Snoopy and George. And, but she worked. And then, we worked, too. We had to work, too. So she didn’t play that laying around. No, you had to find something to do. Rake yards, or, you know. And we done all





kind of work. I ain’t never had no shame about no work. Whatever I had to do to make a living, I done it. I done never drank or smoke or anything.

	M:	What kind of house were you living at, in Ellzey?



	S:	It was a regular house. One—well, I guess we caddy-corner to about two, piece of rooms, a two-room, I guess you could call it a three-room and all with the house, because we slept—some slept in the house, and some slept all over the place. Three or four of us in a bed, three of us at least. But we didn’t think nothing of it. So we lived. Never went hungry or anything. And Momma always dressed us nice. That’s one thing. Always. She had our clothes nice. I mean, I don’t know, I was voted—when I was in school up in Chiefland, I was voted one of the best-dressed guys on the campus. And I still got a plaque in there now.

Somewhere, and I need to find that.



	M:	What school was that at?



	S:	Used to be a Chiefland Elementary School right here. They burned it down after it integrated. Because all the childrens, all the big shot children, had to go down to that school. And some of them didn’t want they children down there. And all of the sudden, it caught afire one night. Burn all the way down. I mean, they fixed it where it burn all the way through the whole school. Had to be electrical wire for it to do that. You know? But when that electric system catch on fire, it’ll just burn right on through. It’ll burn the whole thing down, mess it up so bad that they had to tear it down. Why it’s so hot. Yeah, they had a school up here. Wooden school, then they built a school. When you go up north from here, later on they went to Chiefland, after they integrated. Things got a little better around here. We





was going from here, after you finished ninth grade here, that was later years, then you went to Williston. When they built a high school over there, they’d bus you over there. From Chiefland, we had children come from Cedar Key, Crooked Sapling—which is part of Rosewood, they called it Crooked Sapling, then they had Wiley, they children in Sumner, all up there the bus would come. Then they had two buses going to Williston High School. Some would go through Raleigh. I don’t know if you ever heard tell of Raleigh or nothing. But it used to go—they got highway going all the way through there then, but at this time, they didn’t have no highway. You went through the bushes, through the different and, you know. But that’s where we went to school right there. School called Williston Vocational High School. That’s the name of it. They fixing to tear it down—well, they ain’t going to tear it down, but they fixing to build a new school over there now. Everybody’s going to be in one place. ‘Cause it’s a junior middle school now, they call it. In Williston. All this happened later on, in later years, after they finally, the government started making them treat us a little bit better, but they still didn’t integrate the schools. All they done is made us go from Chiefland, after you finished 9th grade here, you had to go to Williston, get them last three grades.

That was some time afterward.



	M:	So when you were little, living in Ellzey, were you going to school there?



	S:	Oh yeah. We had a school—well, we didn’t have no school, but went in the church.

	M:	Oh, okay.



	S:	Yeah. They used the church for the school.





	M:	Who was the teacher there? Do you remember?



	S:	My first teacher was a lady named Miss Baldwin. That was in 1946, when I started.

	M:	Black lady, or…?



	S:	Black lady. Black, oh yeah. We didn’t have no White teachers. No-o! And then after then, we had another teacher named Miss Williams. She was from Leesburg. She taught for a year, I think, one or two years. And then we had another teacher came, name Miss Jones. Name Miss Jones, she was from Ocala. And I been looking for her for the last fifty years, but I can’t find her. I’d like to see her, because she was a young, young teacher. But we went to school in church out there. Then they moved us down, hauled us from Ellzey in a car to Otter Creek. So finally got a school bus. Start hauling them children from Cedar Key, and all of us got on the bus there. They picked us up in Ellzey, then they carry us to Otter Creek. Because they had a school there, Black man name was Fulton Strong. He built a school for Blacks to go to school there. And so, later on, they built another school, it’s in Otter Creek now. Name is Strong Elementary.

Because the Strongs had a, they came out there as slaves. His granddaddy came from there, his daddy did. They was slaves. And so they won their freedom in Otter Creek. So they still got land. They got land on Waccasassa out there that they bought in slavery. I think it was 15 cent an acre. 150 acres. They still got it out there. Family still got it. Place called Waccasassa. They had their own graveyard in Otter Creek, then they got their own graveyard in Archer. They still buried in Archer right off, and they had their own church right in Otter Creek. And





they had a motel in Otter Creek and all that stuff. Blacks. Yeah, they always had, their family always kinda what we call “uppity,” you know, they had an education. [Laughter] Yeah. Oh, yeah! They was pretty, they was some more big people.

They still, some of them, they got one of the daughters still live in Otter Creek right now. She’s 92, I think. Or 91. But she get around just as nice. 92 years old, yep.

	M:	So, when was the first time your mother told you about Rosewood? Do you remember?

	S:	Whew! I might’ve been in Ellzey there, probably. I know it was in Ellzey. Yeah.



Yeah.



	M:	So it was right down the road when she told you the story.



	S:	Oh yeah. Right, yeah. Well, when we moved to Otter Creek, was the same thing.



They only two miles different. But yeah, she used to talk about it all the time.



	M:	So how would she tell the story?



	S:	Well, she just would talk about, just start off, you know, just be talking sometimes, and she’d go talk about how, the peoples, what happened, how they had to go hide, how they put them in the commissary right there and hid them.

And how the rest of the them had to stand outside the road with they guns, and when the people come along, they tell them to keep going. “Don’t stop here, this ain’t Rosewood.” And they keep on, they going, ‘til they get on down there to them. In fact, all the people done that, that had turpentine. They guard their people. Telling people, “Go on, don’t stop. Go on down to Rosewood,” and that. I mean, she said you could see—because they burn it down. Think it’s about only





this town that, I think, in the United States, where they burn it down, they never rebuild it back. Because that was a town. See, now, they burnt down Atlanta one time, but they build it back. You see? Tulsa, Oklahoma. They tore it up. They killed a bunch of Blacks there one time. But they build it back. But Rosewood never been rebuilt. And there’s a lot of people moving in there now. There’s quite a few people down there. In the woods back out in there. We been back in there. I went down there, and some of the artifacts, they still finding the old sword that they had in the lodge down there, and lot of other things they found. Yeah, we walked all through the woods down there.

	M:	When was the first time you went to Rosewood?



	S:	Oh, Lord! I can’t even remember! Shoot, I guess I was a boy. I worked down there, had work down there in the woods, but I never thought too much of it, really. Until this guy wrote this story and brought it back again. And that’s when everybody was talking about it. He said, then Arnett Doctor momma died, then he got involved, then all the other people got involved. Then it got all over the country. And there was lot of people didn’t, had never heard about it too much. Then it got all up, come on the news, and—60 Minutes came down and done a article, or, Bradley. Well, he dead now, but he came down and he interviewed. Because he went and he got some of the old people that had left there. One old lady, she dead now, but she was scared to come back. She was living in Jacksonville. And she came, she say she didn’t want to go. He said, “Yeah, you can go, because they won’t bother you none. You go on with me.” So she went back down to Rosewood. She hadn’t been back there since 1923 when she left





it. And so, he carried her back down there, and they had a—yeah, it was on 60 Minutes. And, so that’s when everything broke loose. Then this boy done a movie about Rosewood. He done the best he could, ‘course he didn’t get all the help he should’ve got. But you know about some of this stuff. It was a pretty good movie.

	M:	You thought it was missing a couple things, or…?



	S:	Several things. Well, he couldn’t—I mean, he couldn’t really get all the information that he should’ve got, could’ve gotten, if he’d have some help. See some more people, that old Ms. Jenkins from down there. She live in actually around Gainesville somewhere, but she taught school. But her momma’ sister was Ms. Carrier. That was her momma’s sister. They were the main closed peoples in that thing down there. So she know a lot about it, too. But she wouldn’t help him, help that boy with the movie. She say she was going to do it, but she ain’t done it. She wouldn’t do it. Of course she got some of the scholarship money, because her momma’s sister was one that they paid. Some of the people that was, you know. She got 150 thousand dollars, but she donated to Santa Fe. Miss [inaudible: 1:04:15] donated to Santa Fe Community College. I think she did at the time. And, but all them that, if you got relatives affiliated with it, were the people, you can still go to school. They give you money to go to school with, now. And if you can prove that you have peoples that was affiliated with it. Go down there, and set that up right. That scholarship fund. Yep.

	M:	What did your mother say about what it was like after they let them back out of the commissary? So you said they were in there for a week, is that right?





	S:	Well, they didn’t, she didn’t, they didn’t do nothing to them no way. Nothing, everything was, after everything cool down. And they got, everything went back—not really normal, but, they were protected anyway. Because they worked for the West brothers. So you couldn’t bother them. The only reason why the West brothers done what they done with them, put them in the commissary, because they could protect them better in there because they knew where they was. Because the people that saw a lamp or something out, when they come through, well they would have shot in the house. They were right there, almost by the road there. So that’s why. That’s why they done what they done. Plus, they had to protect they people, because they need them to work, like they done they mules and things. You fed them. Gave them good food, lot of food. In the commissary, we could get anything we want out there. They had the best food in the world. Kept you fattened up tight.

	M:	What’d they feed you there? What kind of food did they have?



	S:	Same thing they got here. But they had good food then, because the stuff you got then was real. You got real bacon. Dixie Lily always delivered the bacon and the grocery and stuff. I don’t know if you remember Dixie Lily or not.

	M:	Hm?



	S:	Dixie Lily. Used to have a big plant out there in Williston out there. But that was a big company. They sold out to some of these other companies. But they was in there for years. Big company in the country, Dixie Lily. And I think somebody still use that name—I think. But anyway, yeah, they had, you got the real meat. You could eat that—pork and beans was pork and beans, then. This one company





usually made it. And everything you got there was good. Now, I wouldn’t hardly mess with no pork and beans. Used to eat pork and beans right out the can.

They wouldn’t bother you. But I wouldn’t try it now, because they ain’t know how to cook. [Laughter].

	M:	In Ellzey, did your mother keep a garden or anything?



	S:	Oh, yeah. We had a little garden. We kept a little garden, too, yeah. We had hogs; we had a couple of hogs. You could only have a couple of hogs. Couldn’t feed too many of them. And during the Christmas, we’d have a hog killing. When it get cold, that’s when you kill hogs. Because you can’t, you won’t mess with a hog in the heat. In the summertime, they wouldn’t kill a hog. During the summertime. See, the meat ain’t good. So they say; I don’t know.

	M:	Parasites or something?



	S:	Something or other. But anyway, when we get ready to kill a hog, before we kill it, I had to get a floor. Had to build a board floor in the pen. Keep him from walking on the ground. See, we didn’t want him to eat no dirt or nothing. See? So that’s, you fatten him then, see. Give him corn and stuff, getting him right. But he wouldn’t be on the ground. He wouldn’t be loose. And everybody, all the peoples in the community get together, and they help each other kill the hogs. And they get the lard and stuff from the hog, and cracklins, and all kind of meat. Sauces and everything. That’s how we lived. We lived good—I mean, we ate good, rather. We didn’t have no fancy house, but the house we had, we had to keep it up best we could. You didn’t have no glass windows or nothing. You had a board window, and you’d shut it. If you had a piece of wire on there, you’d tie it, keep





somebody from coming in on you. Put a board through there. Had to hang a thing on there, and then run a board through there. Keeps him out from snatching his old or something, you know? But people didn’t mess with your stuff. Didn’t mess with you too bad, back in them days. Everybody knew everybody. But everything went pretty good. We had a fireplace. You know, burn up in the front, and freeze in the back! [Laughter] But it was nice. I look back on my life, it could have been better, but under the circumstances, I think we were brought up pretty good. Because Momma, she didn’t spare the rod, like they talk about now child abuse and all that stuff. Getting a whipping won’t hurt you. If they had of been, I’d’ve been dead. [Laughter] That’s right, because she knew how to whip you.

And she would give you a good one. At that time, they didn’t bother you. They’d say, well… Now, if you hit one, they call it child abuse. But she raised me up right, with common sense. Whose toes to step on, whose toes not to step on.

And you get somewhere. You won’t be rich, but you’ll make it. So I don’t have no



qualms about my life; I had a pretty good life.



	M:	And she wanted you to work, but— S:	Oh, yeah. We had to work!

	M:	Did you ever play? Did you have time to play?



	S:	Oh, we played outside. We played a lot. Yeah, we played with each other. Played ball. Most of the time, it was ball. We didn’t play too much basketball at that time. But we had a basketball thing, but it wasn’t big like it is. Now, everybody play basketball now. But we played ball, we’d make a ball, or we’d buy one. All us children according, and sometimes, us big families, we’d play each other. Yeah,





we had plenty of time to play. But then you had time to work, too. That’s right. Yeah, she didn’t mind you playing.

	M:	Did you ever go fishing, or did anyone hunt…?



	S:	Oh, did we? That’s how we ate! Ate fish out of Otter Creek. Used to be a big creek there. It growed up now, but you could go all down that creek. Catch all kind of fish. Bream, anything we caught, we ate it. [Laughter].

	M:	Just fry it up, or…?



	S:	Fry it, sometimes bake it. Most times it was fried, but bake it, yeah. And then we’d catch things out the woods. Rabbits, squirrels, ‘coon, opossums. Whatever that was edible. And that’s the way we lived.

	M:	What was your favorite thing out of the woods? Was there— S:	Almost anything! [Laughter].

	M:	Any of them? That works.



	S:	Anything! Because they know how to fix it, though. Them old people fix that food different from what we do now. People don’t know too much about fixing food.

	M:	What’d they do back then?



	S:	Well, they just done it different. And most of them cooked on a wood stove, and it cooked better. Seemed like to me it was, I don’t know. You could eat a dinner, you didn’t get sick. Now, you eat much of this stuff, now you get sick. Or they cook it so fast—I guess that’s what it is, I don’t know. Because I know I wasn’t no diabetic when I was eating that food like that. But by the time I got up here and started out of eating out of Winn-Dixie and all them places, I got to be a diabetic. [Laughter].





	M:	Well, did you—when you got that stuff, the wild foods, did you bake them, or fry them, or make stew or something…?

	S:	Sometimes we bake it. Yeah, we do all of that. A large black ‘coon and stuff, you take it, certain time of year you get it, and you, they got a thing called, they’ve got a “musk.” If you don’t get all that scent off and all… Then they bake it. They boil him, and then put it in the stove and bake it. Put vinegar and potatoes around it and all that stuff. Oh, Lord! Yeah, you could eat! You know, it’s some good food. A lot of people think, “Nah, I ain’t going eat that.” But it’s good for you. Wild food is better for you because it’s natural. You see, what they eat out the woods, they don’t eat anything. It was good for you. Still is.

	M:	I believe it. Did you eat a lot of chitterlings, and organ meats, and all that stuff?



	S:	Oh! Did we? Oh, Lord! I still eat some of that if I can get them. But I don’t trust they—I don’t eat everybody’ chitterlings, because everybody don’t know how to clean them things. You find some people know how to clean ‘em, they good. And cook them. They good. But everybody, some of this young crew, I wouldn’t eat no chitterlings around there. They don’t take time now—everything is too fast.

You see? You got to clean them things like they’re supposed to be. Now, old people know how to cut them, and turn them bottom sides-up, and get all that, everything out ‘em. And then they good. Yep. Yeah. Did I eat chitterlings? Lord have mercy! [Laughter] Yeah! We didn’t throw away nothing on the hog but the hair. That’s all.

	M:	Yeah, did you have a smokehouse there? Did you make bacon?





	S:	Yeah, we had done that too. Momma had made one time. Now, a lot of peoples had bigger ones, but every once in a while, she’d have one, too. They’d make sauce and put them in there, smoke them. Oh, yeah! We’ve done that.

	M:	What about canning and things? Did you—



	S:	Yeah, Lord! She canned food, too. My wife still can—she can food now. I mean, like, certain stuff—we called it canning and put it in a jar. Yeah, she’d do it right on. Still do it. Yeah. Peaches and things like that. Peach reserve. Yeah. We got some in there now.

	M:	Did you guys have an orchard back then, or was there an orchard you pick from, or…?

	S:	Well, you could go to people’s house. People give you stuff. Stuff like that. You could go by anybody house. Lot of them had trees in the yard, and some growth. And then people come by selling stuff, you get something like that. But lot of people you work for, they had trees out there. You go on and get all you want.

	M:	That makes sense. I didn’t ask, but were you born in a hospital in Ellzey, or were you—

	S:	No, I was born at home.



	M:	Was there a midwife there?



	S:	Yeah. A White lady was my midwife, a woman named Miss Clark. She delivered me.

	M:	Okay. Who was she? Was she…



	S:	She was just a person that done that kind of stuff.





	M:	So she just did that work there.



	S:	Yeah. She was a good lady. Momma knew her. But she done that anyway.



Momma always got along with people. And they never had no problem about something like that. They’d see about you.

	M:	Okay. So did she live in Ellzey, or was she from—?



	S:	At one time, she did, but she later moved to an English down there, I think that’s where she died at.

	M:	Okay. So, what happened if you got sick as a kid? Did you have any home remedies or anything?

	S:	Oh, yeah! Momma and them used a lot of home remedies. Like if we had a cold or something, she always kept a little moonshine around there. And they mix it up with different things and give it to you. Little bit, you’d be all right! [Laughter] If you got your feet cut, they’d bat it—you get a pad and bat it? They’d mash it down, and then they’d get some spider webs from outside of the house. Because spiders was everywhere, and they just go get the spider web. And what they would do was put it on your foot and then put some kerosene on it, and then tie it up. You’d be all right! They worked. Them things worked. Then they’d go in the woods, and get certain bushes they could go get. They’d boil them bushes, and they’d give you that if you got fevers and stuff, have a fever, all that stuff. And that stuff cured you. You do it now, they want to put you in jail. But that stuff worked. I know it has! It has worked for us. Yeah, we live a long time. Most of us live—sisters and brothers live into their eighties and all that stuff. I’m 74, so—I’ve been living. [Laughter]





	M:	Doing pretty well!



	S:	They done pretty good back in them days. Because I wouldn’t try that now, because everybody don’t know how to mix that stuff. And they had another thing called “hog hoof tea.” That, the hog hoof? She’d boil that and give you that. Now, you talk about some nasty junk! Whoo! God almighty know. They boil and give it to you. [Laughter].

	M:	Was that for a cold, or for…?



	S:	Yep, fever and, everything. Yeah. M:	Did it help?

	S:	Yeah. Oh, yeah! That stuff worked.



	M:	That’s a rough one. And that was your mother who did most of that?



S:  Oh yeah. Momma would do it, and then they had other people around there that knowed all that stuff, too. They had another lady used to live on the—they called Miss Lucille Winbush. She could talk to—like, you get burned or something?

She talk that fire out you. And that could hurt. You know, fire, get burnt. She do some kind of [makes noises and gesticulates]. Sure enough, it quit hurting. And all these things worked. I seen that one myself. They done a heap of things that you couldn’t do today. A child get hurt today, or a grown person, you’d better go to the doctor. You’re working on then, you know? Everybody can’t do that stuff like they used to do back in them days. Now, we went to the doctor on occasion. Depend on what, you know, whether you’re really, really down. Sick, then you go to the doctor, yeah. But that stuff would work. I seen it work.

	M:	And that—and so her name was Lucille what again? Sorry.





	S:	Winbush.



	M:	Winbush.



	S:	Yeah.



	M:	Was that only for burns that she could do that, or—



	S:	That’s only thing I know she do. I guess she could do other things, where you go in the woods and get them bushes. Cat’n’mouse, they call it cattenmouth tea. And they make Catmouth tea, it’s a catmout bush, they call it. And they boil it, give you all that stuff. Different things. And people lived a long time, back in the day. Because last time I seen her—she probably dead now—I think she was 96 years old herself. And that been a few years ago. But she had left Ellzey and went and moved. So.

	M:	Do you know where she went to, or…?



	S:	She went down to Tampa, went down until her son had died, her son that lived in Ellzey, and we went to the funeral in Tampa. She was there. Because I hadn’t seen her in years. So. Like I say, she was 96. We talked to her. She knew who we was, too. But all them old peoples, that’s what they done back in those days.

	M:	Did she ever tell you much about how she knew how to do what she did?



	S:	Nah, it’s a gift, they call it—that’s a gift from God. Because we had the—all up there, you had the, lot of things they got out the Bible. And they believed in that, now. I don’t care how much liquor one of them drunk, he believed in the Bible! [Laughter] Whatever that Bible say, that’s it. And they believed in ghosts, spirits. But we didn’t call them ghosts and things. They called them—not ghosts, “ghosts” is more educated. But back in them days we called them haints.





	M:	Haints.



	S:	Yeah, haints.



	M:	What did they tell you about the haints?



	S:	Well, they said the haints’ll get you. You know? They come in your house and stuff. And they used to put a horseshoe over the door. We don’t mess with that stuff now. That keep ‘em out, they’d say.

	M:	So everyone had a horseshoe over their door.



	S:	Oh, yeah! All them houses. Every house. You worked at, you was on a turpentine place, you had a horseshoe over the door. And that’ll keep the haints out of the toker, they call it. Yep. Yessir. They would.

	M:	What else would a haint do? Would they—they just come in the house, or…?



	S:	Yeah, they come in and, they say, mess with you some. That what the old people say, anyway. [Laughter].

	M:	Did you have to watch out for them out in the woods or anything?



	S:	No. They just believed in that stuff. People come back and all that stuff. Now that—now, that might not’ve been true. [Laughter] But they believed in that, though. You know? You believe in something, and sometimes you think things happening when it’s not happening. But they believed in it. Sometimes, some things they believed in is kind of funny. [Laughter] And that was one of them. I look back over my life… Now, you got a horseshoe over the door. But most of the houses had cracks in it anyhow, so if the haint want to come in there—[Laughter] Get a door with no cracks in the edge! He may not be intelligent to come in the front door. Yeah, some things—then we had a well, too. Where you went to the





well and got water. Didn’t have no pump. Well, some people had pumps. And once in a while, you’d find one place had a pump. But most of us had wells. And you’d go down there, you had a bucket that you dipped down in there. That water was good. It was way down there. They kept that water—and we would clean it out. Once a year, they cleaned it out. Some old mens would get down in there and dig it out. Because they had a stream, dug down to the stream, with that stream there, water stream running in it, and they cleaned it out. And that water just be the prettiest. Everything. And then, you didn’t play around the well. No!

You couldn’t play around that well. Unh-uh. You didn’t play there! Everybody had, people had good common sense and things, but they just limited to what they could do, and where they could go. You see? Because if you went one sawmill, left this place, if you stayed around in the area you had to go to another one. Or turpentine. You left one turpentine still, to another one. You had the same sort of people. And so you stayed there. And so lot of them raised good families there.

	M:	Makes sense. And so did most people stay in the area, then, or did some try to leave?

	S:	Well, a lot of them leave. Well, they children would leave, when they got up some sod, they would leave. Then a lot of the old people stayed there until they died. Because a lot of them was homesteaded. Some of them had a little plot or two, a little land. They stayed and keep that two, three acres. Soon as they died, their children come down and sell it, because they wasn’t coming back. Not to Ellzey or Otter Creek. Places like that. Some of them wouldn’t. You still got people got land in Otter Creek. Don’t stay in Otter Creek no more. But they got





land down there. Fact, I got a little land down there myself, a little lot around there.

	M:	Anything on it, or just—? S:	No.

	M:	Just open lot?



	S:	Just open, growed up. I should go down there and clean it up. Just too lazy to do it. [Laughter].

	M:	I don’t know if you’d know much about it, but do you know much about a crate mill that moved from Otter Creek to Gainesville? I think it was Atkins Crate Mill, or something like that?

	S:	Yeah, I’ve heard tell of it, I know it was one over there. M:	Okay.

	S:	Yeah. Yep.



	M:	Do you know much about it, or…?



	S:	Nah, I don’t know too much about that. No. I’ve heard of it.



	M:	Okay. But so, when you were growing up, from what you saw, Otter Creek was basically the lumber mill then.

	S:	That was Cummer’s. Cummer’s. They moved from Sumner to Otter Creek. Yeah.



Cummer’s.



	M:	And that was the main job—or main employment.



	S:	Oh yeah. That’s one of the main jobs they had, but yeah. That was sawmill work, yeah. Because a lot of people was there, see. And they worked at that mill. And they had, you know, wooden logs, and turpentine, and all that stuff. And a lot of





peoples come down there and work. Do turpentine work, and logs, and things. Because a lot of work in the area at that time for them certain people. Because a lot of White people done that kind of work, too. Sure did. And them, a lot of them White boys hauled pulp wood, worked in the woods. They had no choice. But a lot of them went on to school, like a lot of Blacks, they went on to school, and they got the education. They had to go somewhere else and get a job because the job was limited for teachers and all that stuff for what you could do. They went to different places—Jacksonville, and different places. Tampa, Miami, somewhere, anywhere they could get a job. Because there wasn’t no—wasn’t nothing you could do. There wasn’t nothing in that area to hold you there, as far as a good job for your education. Not for a Black person at that time. Still there’s not too many opening around here now. Nope.

	M:	Did you ever do any turpentine work yourself? S:	Oh, yeah! Oh, yeah.

	M:	So what’d you do?



S:  I worked in the woods, dipped turpentine. Dip it at the cup—you had a cup, that the turpentine ran off the tree in, and I’d get it and put it in a bucket, and put it in a barrel. Done that. Yep.

M:   Did you ever have to use the acid? I know some places used that.



S:  Oh, yeah. Yeah, that’s the first job I ever had doing turpentine. I sprayed acid on the tree to make it—and that stuff got on me when I went out in the woods, and I come back home, I had nothing but shorts on, because they ate off. [Laughter] It was powerful at that time! So they cut it, cut it down a little bit later on, though,





because that stuff was too powerful. Yeah, I worked in the woods. I done that. Then they had another thing we used to get: deertongue. You ever heard tell of that?

	M:	No.



	S:	They put that in cigarettes. M:	Oh, really?

	S:	They still get it. They don’t get it right here, now. But I think up in Georgia, now, they put it—now at the time, we made a good living doing that. We started off at three cent a pound. Then it went on up to, I think the last deertongue I got was about 27 cent. And that was a lot of money. And we used to get it, along these centers in the woods, and get it—you could go anywhere then. You can’t do that now, because they done got all this land. And that stuff grew out the—I mean, it was everywhere. And we’d sell three or four hundred dollars worth every two weeks. And that was a heap of money. Heap of money. And that’s how we made a good living, and people didn’t know it, because we didn’t go around broadcasting, telling folks. Momma didn’t allow that. No, we just, we sell it, and get them three or four hundred dollars. Momma take it and buy all our clothes, and stuff. Different stuff. Because she got a little aid from the government, and so—but she always, my Momma always had a lot of help from White people.

They had another, one White lady there, named Miss Amelia Irving. She was a schoolteacher. Momma worked for her for years, and she was, she treated Momma just like she was a daughter—well, she treated her like she was a human being. She didn’t never try to make out like Momma was somebody else.





She didn’t never do that with her. And Momma only, she washed for her—mostly she washed for her. She didn’t hardly clean up the house too much, but she washed for her. Wash all the children’ clothes. And so, Momma needed a credit account. So her and her husband helped Momma get a credit account with Sears Roebuck. Until this day, I don’t know how they done it. Because Momma didn’t have no credit background. I mean, she paid everybody, but she didn’t have no— but anyway, they helped Momma get a credit account. And I know a lot of people say, “Well, so what? So what is a credit from Sears Roebuck?” But for us, that was a big thing, because she’d get all our clothes from Sears Roebuck. And the thing is about Sears, you didn’t have to pay them no big ball of money according to what you got. She’d buy fifty, sixty dollars worth of stuff from them. At that time, that was a lot of stuff. Back in them days, back in the [19]40s, right on until this day I still got that credit. I kept it. After she died, I kept it myself in the family until, it’ll be there until I kick the bucket, I reckon. Because to me it was historical. You see? Because she would get all our clothes every year to go to school with, and pay Sears Roebuck a little bit of money. Along and along. As long as you paid ‘em back. That’s all they interested in. The principal. That’s right. Say you owe them thirteen dollars of payment, thirteen dollars on Monday, says, “Well, pay me five.” They making seven dollars, and only thing going on the paper is five. You ain’t getting nowhere, but you know you paying it. Because they still making money off of you. They getting the same, and you—

[Interruption for phone]



	S:	Don’t even know what I was talking about now.





	M:	Threw me off a little bit, too, but you were talking about the work, and the credit line—

	S:	Yeah, I was talking about how that helped Momma. You know, with all of us. Get all our school clothes and things. To a lot of people that wouldn’t mean nothing. “So what? What’d you get a credit for?” But for her to be able to get all our school clothes, send us to school, and then pay Sears Roebuck just a little bit of money on the interest or principal. Because they was making more than she was going to make off of them. You pay them a little bit of money, they go and get the bigger majority of it, and then the little bit goes on the bill. You still wind up paying them. So that’s what that meant. And she kept it. And Momma always paid her bills. One thing she had—she had a reputation with the people. I don’t care—in Levy County, anybody that know Vera Scott. And we could go to any of them stores and get served. Send Vera Scott something up here to get so-and-so.

Get a shirt. We come to Chiefland. Up there, Burt Griffin, he had a big store there, and he had some good clothes. And we said, “Vera Scott sent us up here to get me a shirt.” “All right. No problem.” Cost to rupt DJ because she paid.

Paid people. Anywhere around here, Vera Scott. And that’s the kind of reputation I always wanted. I don’t think I’ve quite got it, but, I mean, she had a reputation. [Laughter] My brothers used to—they were going to school in Williston. And they didn’t have no way to get home from football practice. And what they’d do, if they could hitch them a ride to Bronson, it was a man over there named Dalton Cobb. He’s still living. He’s about a 100-some years old. But he had a drug store, and see, they’d go in there and say, “We want to get to Otter Creek on the buses.” At





that time, the bus was coming through going to Cedar Key. They say, “We’re Vera Scott’ boys. We want to go to Otter Creek; we want to go home.” And he put them on the bus, just because they say whose child they was. That’s the kind of reputation she had. And so, she’d go over there and pay him whenever she see him. And he wouldn’t say nothing, because he know Momma going to come pay him. Any people around here like that. And they knowed—another thing they knowed, if they went and told Momma that, “I seen your boy doing so-and-so- and-so,” you was in trouble! That’s right. She didn’t play! Sure didn’t. That’s for sure. And so that’s why we, that’s another thing we made it like that. So all my brothers, they done pretty good. Yep. All of them retired and stuff.

	M:	Did your mother ever have to make any clothes or anything, or did she just buy them for you?

	S:	Yeah, she made some. They’d make some sometimes. And once in a while, they get sewing machine, and they’d make them a dress, make some clothes. Yeah, sometimes. Used to have a—flour used to come in bags, but those were pretty bags. All kind of colors and different things in the cloth. And they’d take them sacks, and take them a loosen. And make dresses out of it. You’d think they bought them out of stores. That’s right. I mean beautiful clothes. They done all that, yeah. And a lot of peoples was good to us. They’d always look out for us.

Them White people I’m talking about, if they killed cows and hogs and stuff, they’d bring us some of the meat. We never had no big problems. Not in that manner. We had a place we had to live in, so you lived in that place, because,





see, the law was against you, so, whenever you tried to buck the law. But we made it.

	M:	Sounds that way. Did you—I mean, you talked about Rosewood. Did you hear about any other lynchings, or any other kinds of events like that?

	S:	Oh yeah. Up there in Newberry, and they had a place up there in Newberry called Lynch Hammock.

	M:	Oh yeah.



	S:	Yeah. I got the story in this book here. [Indicates old binder overstuffed with notes and clippings.] And they lynched them people there about some hogs. One of them was pregnant. Lynched up there in Lynch Hammock. And they killed two little boys about a watermelon. Yeah. Kill them. Because they said they ate the heart out the watermelon. They didn’t do it, some White boys done it, but they put it on them two. One of them boys is buried out there in a place called Half Moon. His grave is out there now. I think he was nine years old.

	M:	Where was this at? S:	In Newberry.

	M:	Oh, the watermelon?



	S:	Yeah. Yeah, that happened out there in Newberry. But this boy was buried out there in a place called Half Moon. That’s out there from Newberry. That’s back out there in the woods out there. My pastor live by there. Called it Half Moon. But the graveyard, they got a graveyard out there, too. But he’s buried there. And the other little boy, I just remember they buried him up in Newberry somewhere or another, Gainesville once. But they killed them—one of them eleven, and one





was nine. And they lynched them. They said they had the heart of a watermelon. That’s accurate. That sure happened.

	M:	Did your mother ever teach you anything about how to conduct yourself around White people?

	S:	Oh, yeah! Yeah, she told me when, you had to say, “Mr. So-and-so,” and so. You say “Yess’m” and “Noss’m.” And all that stuff. You ain’t scared of nobody. But you doing that to survive. To get by. You see? It’s a common sense thing. And that’s the way it was in themdays. And it’s still like that in a lot of ways. I mean, you working for somebody: a banker, or president of University of Florida, you don’t go in there and say, “Hey Machen, I want to talk to you.” [Laughter] It ain’t Machen no more, but it’s somebody else. But he still living. But you know when to say Mr. So-and-so-and-so. You ain’t scared of them or nothing. But you work for them, so that’s out of respect. But back in them days, you had to do it.

Women, especially women, I don’t care. Every little word, I say, “Yes, Miss So- and-so.” All that stuff. But you done it to survive, to get by. And it worked. That’s right. It works. You ain’t scared of them, but you know what it make for make people clear, so you do it. So that’s common sense. See? I ain’t got to know the education, you don’t learn that in school, you learn that from home. Because they won’t teach you that in school no more, I don’t think. You got to know something like that.

	M:	That’s true. Did they—so did you grow up having a pretty clear sense of racial inequality, the system you were living in?





	S:	Oh, yeah. You see the way you were treated. You’d see the thing you could do and what you couldn’t do. The thing, when you’d get on the bus, you had that back seat to there, all the way to the back. That was your seat. And you could sit a little further up, the next seat, but if somebody got on the bus, a White person wanted that seat, you had to get up and give it to them if they wanted it. But you normally put in that long back seat in the back back there. And that’s where you sit at. Or stand up. Or stood up or whatever. So, yeah. I mean, that’s how you know right then it’s racial inequality, or whatever you want to call that. You know how you treated different. People come up, and you standing there talking, and a White person says, they might come up and speak to you: “Will you look at me?” See, he won’t come up and say, “How you all doing?” Nope. “A’ight, Mr. So-and- s.” I hear Mr. So-and-so, and he look at me like I’m not even standing there. [Laughter] Cause people look at you like that. One of the guys used to work in the White House, and he wrote a book. He was—Eisenhower and all of them, he worked with Eisenhower, Truman, down through the years. He was a butler. But anyway, he said them guys used to talk things in front of him just like he wasn’t even standing there. He learned a heap of things just listening to them. And they didn’t think he had no sense. I mean, just that he wasn’t human. Although he was waiting on them, and opening doors, and doing certain things. Dressed nice, he had to dress nice. What I’m saying is, people just look at you like you subhuman. You’re not a human being. You see?

	M:	And you noticed that even as a child?





	S:	Oh, of course you do! Yeah. Yes sir. And if you thought you wasn’t, he would let you know you ain’t White. [Laughter] So you’d better stay in your place. So that’s just the way it was. It’s just hurtful, but it don’t make you hate nobody. I mean, I couldn’t do that now. I don’t have anything against anyone. No. Because I been treated pretty good by people.

	M:	Did you ever hear any ghost stories about Rosewood, or anything like that? Did people, were there any other legends about the place?

	S:	[Laughter] No. I never heard anything else about it.



	M:	Did you ever hear people try to say that it never happened? S:	Oh, yeah!

	M:	I know some people in Florida—



	S:	Oh yeah. We had people that say it never happened here, yeah. Yep, yep, yep. This the woman here I was talking about here that would help us Liz. Can you see her there?

	M:	Oh, yeah. Oh yeah.



	S:	I don’t know why you ain’t heard tell of her. M:	Oh no, I’ve heard of her. I know her, yeah.

	S:	So that’s her momma there, and that was her sister was out there. That’s her sister there.

	M:	I never saw a picture of her before. Okay. Yeah. That’s quite a scrapbook.



	S:	Carrier. [Inaudible: 1:42:53] Brown Carrier. She had a brother just died last year. It was last year or the year before. He was 96. He was the baby. Yeah, he lived over in Archer. His uncle name was Sylvester Carrier.





	M:	Oh, yeah. I’ve heard of him.



	S:	Oh yeah. Yep. There was a lynching there. That’s in Newberry, that’s the story there about the Newberry lynching. Yep. In 1910. Yep. There’s a story here about another boy, used to live here, and went to school here, but he went down south, and they charged him with raping a woman. They had him on death row. Friend of mine, he was just telling me that was his momma and all them. And I was just reading about that. That make you want to cry. Even now, and that’s been probably back in the [19]60s and things. But he come from right around here. But he, they took him off of death row.

	M:	Oh, they finally got him off of there? S:	Oh yeah.

	M:	Well, so—did anyone around here read any of the Black newspapers that used to be around, like Chicago Defender, the Pittsburgh Courier—

	S:	Oh yeah. You could read—you mean anybody ever read it? M:	Yeah, like, your family, was there one—

	S:	I could tell you. I could tell you the Pittsburgh Courier. Used to read it all the time, yeah. Baltimore—the Afro-American, paper from Baltimore. And I still get all the Black papers that I can get. I get the Guardian out of Gainesville now. Only one over here. Because I have a friend over there that send it to me. They can’t deliver that paper over here, because they got a boundary line as far as they can go. Some kind of way they do it. But they can’t deliver, but he sent it to me through the mail. And I pay him so much a year to send it to me. Black Guardian. That’s what you talking about?





	M:	Yeah.



	S:	Yeah. And I used to get the Afro-American paper from Baltimore, Maryland.



Years ago, an old man named Turner Hughes lived in Otter Creek. He used to get it. And Pittsburgh Courier paper used to come to Chiefland, a man named Mr. Chisholm. He used to come up here and get it. He was blind. Used to get it from him. And now I still get Ebony magazine. I used to get Sepia magazine when they was in business. I get Black Enterprise magazine every month now. And Jet. They quit delivering Jet here this year, for some reason or another. I don’t know why. But I got them all for years and years and years. I get all the Black newspapers I could get.

	M:	Was it tough to get the Chicago Defender around here, or…? I’ve heard sometimes the post offices, people would try to filter things out. Was there—did any of that go on?

	S:	I don’t know. I didn’t never get the Chicago Defender, now. I got the Pittsburgh Courier, and the Baltimore—well, the Baltimore, I got the Afro-American newspaper which came out of Baltimore. I was in Otter Creek when I got that.

	M:	Didn’t have any problems getting it, or…?



	S:	Mmm, well, the old man, that Turner Hughes, the Ku Klux Klan burned a cross in his yard. Now fact about it, that’s where my land is. That little lot I got. Bought it from him. When he left Otter Creek and went to Arcadia, I bought it from him for Momma to stay there. Because she died in [19]76. And my sister stayed there until the house finally burned down. But yeah, they burned a cross in his yard on account of he was getting mail from the NAACP, and that paper from Baltimore,





and something, another paper we used to get. I used to get it from him. That’s the only news, that’s the only way we’d get Black news around there. Even around here. After I ordered it, so I don’t have no problems.

	M:	When did the Klan burn that cross? Do you remember around when that was, or…?

	S:	That might have been, that had to—that was in the [19]60s. M:	Okay.

	S:	Yeah, that was in the [19]60s, yeah. Them guys got together and done it, because the postmaster, he was, you know, he knowed all them guys. He got all your mail, and wasn’t nobody there but him. Just a one-man post office. And he’d get all your mail in there, and read it, no doubt. And yeah. And they decided they’d scare Turner Hughes. Him and his wife, they run. Both of them run, but they didn’t—fact, my brother was living right there in front of them. My oldest brother. He’s passed away now. Because they didn’t bother him. But they were just trying to scare Turner Hughes, I reckon. They smoothed it over a little bit. He knew who it was. They found out—all of them knew who it was. Some old guy around Otter Creek that knew him. Named Jack—can’t think of Jack’ name now. But anyway, he was the postmaster, and he told them all what Turner Hughes did with all of his mail for NAACP and all that stuff. All these Black newspapers and stuff. So they call this stuff “scaring him.”

	M:	Wow, that’s—



	S:	Yeah, well, that’s still a bad thing. It’s against the law to do that. But they didn’t do anything about it.





	M:	Did you ever get involved with the NAACP, or—? S:	I’m still a member of it.

	M:	Oh yeah?



	S:	Oh, yeah.



	M:	When did you join?



	S:	I used to be president. And the first time in history it was known that we had a chapter here, that was in 1970… [19]70 or [19]71. But most peoples talked about it was in it, they wouldn’t talk about it. So one of the first time a Black ever be known that they have a chapter in Levy County. They didn’t bother me or nothing. Nobody bothered me none.

	M:	But it used to be, I guess, dangerous to be—



	S:	Oh, back in those days, few years before that, it was. They’d get at you, try to fire you or something if you had a pretty good job. Because I had a friend of mine that worked for the state. And the boss man told him that if he ever found out he was in the NAACP, he was going to fire him. Scared him to death. He couldn’t do that—but he could fire him. Find some reason or another to fire him. But he scared him. He was one of them old-timers, so anything like that scare him to death.

	M:	Do you remember much about—when the Civil Rights Movement started, was there much talk about it around here? Did people get involved at all?

	S:	Not really involved, but they knowed about it. They talked about it, yeah, lot of them talked about it, when it started back in 1955. All back in them days. People stayed—some of them stayed kind of quiet. And so I know in 1960, [19]61, they





had a singing out to the schoolhouse, and a girl got up and she was going to announce about it, and the principal told her, “No! Unh-uh! Don’t you say that in here!” No, Lord, you ain’t better do it. Sure would. Had a group out there singing, all singing, no, he wouldn’t let them do it. She was a witness, tell them how to get involved and all that stuff. No, Lord!

	M:	What school was that? Do you remember the—



	S:	Same school out there that burnt down. Chiefland Junior High School. M:	Who was the principal there back then?

	S:	Man named Ernest Haile. M:	Haile.

	S:	And he dead now. Just died not too long ago. Stayed around here about, oh, fifty years. Come out of Georgia somewhere or another. Yep.

	M:	What did your mother think of the Civil Rights Movement?



	S:	She never did talk too much. Not about it, not really. I mean, it didn’t bother her, because whatever she had to say, she’d say it anyway. [Laughter] But she didn’t never, you know, she’d read about it, beyond that she’d… Never did say a whole lot. Not that I can recall. Not for us. She already voted, oh, we done that.

	M:	Oh, really? Even when you were young, she was voting back then? S:	Oh yeah. She always voted. We had to register to vote.

	M:	Was that important to her that you, her children, vote too?



	S:	Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah, she wanted us to do that, because she knowed it was very important. That you vote. Yep.





	M:	Do you remember any kind of Civil Rights activities here at any point? Or was that kind of just something that came through the laws that got passed?

	S:	It come through the laws that got passed. We didn’t, nobody didn’t—I think some girls marched one time about jobs. Back in 1970, around when the NAACP got organized. But it wasn’t nothing out of the way. So they weren’t—some girls wanted some jobs and things. So they hired a few of them, too, after that. Some of the drug stores and things. So all them girls went on to be educators, and they, one of them got to be over the schools in Atlanta. She was one of the big peoples in Atlanta. Diane Phillips. Yep.

	M:	So, I guess no one around here got too involved with the—I know they did Civil Rights demonstrations over in Ocala, and up in Gainesville, and…?

	S:	Yeah. No, we didn’t get involved—not in that manner. We always pushed peoples in the church to vote. You know. Things that they could do, things like that. But we never got in no march or anything like that.

	M:	I see. And so why did you join the NAACP when you joined that? What was the—



?



	S:	Well, I always knew about it, that it meant a whole lot. Far as getting these laws passed and all, we need to be organized. And that was the thing we needed to do, get involved in that, and get organization. And so we had a boy set up this chapter—helped us set it up—named Marvin Davis. He was originally from Hampton, but he went to college, and got educated. I think he’s in St. Petersburg now. But he helped set this thing up around [19]71, [19]72, sometime in there.

But that was the first time. But anyway, we had a pretty good chapter here. And





they still got one going here in Levy County. I didn’t have no problems with being a member of the NAACP.

	M:	I guess something changed around here, then, huh?



	S:	Oh yeah. Things are a little bit better. Yeah. Still a few minor things. People let you know I’m still me right around. [Laughter] Got the mayor—well, we had us, well, we probably had two mayors, peoples on the council who was mayors for a long time. Black mayors, yeah. We had Black mayor in Otter Creek. Wasn’t nobody down there but about five Blacks, but he was the mayor until he got sick. Sick of it. And he got tired. [Laughter] But he was the mayor in Otter Creek. So things change. And now nothing but White people. And man named Strong, Henry Strong, he just died, here. Buried him last year. But then we had Black mayor in Bronson. You know, in Chiefland we got, the last man we now saw, is Black. Billy Gamble. He Black. Well she served the mayor for a long time, too. In Chiefland.

	M:	Oh yeah?



	S:	Oh yeah. But she got it because when she was trying to get back on, so she won another election, so she got back on there. Yep.

	M:	Okay. Well, I can come up with more questions all day, but we’ve gone for a while here. So, do you have anything to add before we close the interview out? Any other thoughts?

	S:	[Laughter] No, I don’t think so. I think I done—I hope I said something that you can get something out of.

	M:	Oh, most certainly.





	S:	And, you know, that was very plain, plain as I could. May not be the best at expounding, but I guess that…said what I thought was…

	M:	Pretty good, a lot of good stuff in there, I’ve got to say. But… then thank you very much for agreeing to do an interview.

	S:	Oh, thank you for coming. You know, any time you need to come back, or want to come back, look through my records here, and take things up—Ms. DuPree went over one time and copied them all down. [Laughter] But you know, come back, there’s a lot of things—and me, haven’t been expound on a whole lot, but you know. I like history a whole lot, I’ll tell you that, but you know. But I ain’t as apt as I used to be. I might be getting old or something. But yeah. Yeah, I like history. All those the thing of the past, but they tell you some things about where we come from, and what happened. And it make you better when you know.

Where you come from, what happened, and how you got where you got. Who paid the price—because somebody always pay the price. Whether you White or Black, we all paid the price for this country. Fighting each other, fighting the British, fighting this and fighting that. So…

	M:	Got to agree with that. Well, yeah, I’ll most certainly come back. With—well, anyway, I guess I can close this off. Thank you.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, March 17, 2015



	Audit-edit by:	Anupa Kotipoyina, April 25, 2018



	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019