AAHP 078; Weathersbee; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 078 Tonyaa Weathersbee African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Scott McPherson on September 5, 2009 24 minutes | 15 pages



Abstract: In this interview conducted during the 2009 UF Black Alumni Weekend, Tonyaa Weathersbee describes some of her experiences in high school in Jacksonville during the early 1970s, which was the beginning period of K-12 integration in Florida.

Ms. Weathersbee matriculated to UF in 1977, after graduating from the same high school as the UF football team’s first Black quarterback, who had played just a few years prior. She describes the atmosphere as characterized by excitement and a sense of change; at the same time, she felt considerable pressure to succeed for the sake of future generations of Black students. Ms. Weathersbee shares reflections on her overall experiences at UF, and its journalism program, and expresses concerns about the future of journalism given a lack of respects for balanced reporting or even factuality in some contemporary newscasts and reporting.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; Duval County, Florida; Integration]







































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 078

Interviewee: Tonyaa Weathersbee Interviewer: Scott McPherson Date: September 5, 2009



	M:	And this is the Florida Oral History Program interview on Black Alumni Day. So tell me what was your educational experience before UF?

	W:	My educational experience was, my high school in Jacksonville was William M. Raines High School and I loved my high school. As a matter of fact, one of the things I’m doing now is I’m working to try to do some things to tell what I think is an ethics story about initially a Black model school that has basically been killed by a thousand cuts. But that’s another whole story. But as far as what my education was like at my high school, I had a pretty good education, but just like many other high schools in which the student population is predominantly Black there were some resources we didn’t have. We had a lot of love and caring, and everything, but during the initial days of desegregation which is in Jacksonville is very very slow, you had a situation where you had some teachers who cared, you had some teachers who were just trying to teach and get out during the day, and while I learned quite a bit, the best education I got in that high school was from a teacher that I had in 11th grade, her name was Miss Elizabeth Lee, and I took pre-college prep English from her and that really sealed my fate as far as being able to get into the University of Florida because the things she taught me really helped me to become a good writer and it helped me to I believe win two essay contests, which I believe made the difference between me getting into the University of Florida and not and I think that helped me a whole lot. So you know my high school education was very good as far as believing in myself, as far as being in a place where teachers and being in a place where the whole culture





was about you believing in yourself, as an African American student in a society that was changing. Academic wise it wasn’t quite as good but it was enough to make me tough enough to deal with the things that later on came my way. So that’s basically what it was like.

	M:	Speak a little more, you said you were in the high school in these beginning days of segregation. What exactly were your experiences there?

	W:	Well, okay, here’s …. In Jacksonville, Florida, you have to understand a little bit about Jacksonville, Florida. Jacksonville Florida still struggles with racism I mean that’s just a truth. They still struggle with a lot of racism. And Jacksonville was one of the places that really, really resisted desegregation. We had our first busing order like in 1960, but it was a teachers transferred order where the teachers were transferred then, but actual student desegregation didn’t start until sometime in the early [19]70s. Okay, at Raines High School in the early [19]70s when you had different transfers and White kids finally going to Raines for the first time, that was my meaning of the early days of desegregation because everybody was getting used to each other and everything. And in many ways it didn’t happen the way it was supposed to happen because in Jacksonville, if you wanted to request a transfer from an all-Black school or something or any school for that matter, you could lie about where you were living and nobody would check it. So in a way it didn’t quite work the way it was supposed to work, but it was still and interesting time for everybody because while we had White students at the school I don’t think it was so much of what was going on in school so much as anticipation on the outside that we all had the feeling that we were on the





vanguard of something different, something new that was about to explode into our world and then you know I could tell you more about that with a University of Florida connection. But that’s when I say the early days of desegregation, that’s what I’m talking about is, now that we have White kids and White teachers at our school are things going to get better, are they going to get worse, are we going to be better prepared for the future? So it was a lot of dread and it was a lot of anticipation at the time.

	M:	Okay so you had White teachers coming in as well? W:	Yeah, oh yeah.

	M:	How did the students accept that and how did the White kids interact with the Black teachers and vice versa? Was that tough?

	W:	No, the students I mean, we pretty much, for the most part the Black students pretty much accepted the White students. I mean, you had some fights here and there but I think we pretty much accepted them. Unfortunately you did have cliques. I mean at lunchtime all the White kids would be together, all the Black kids would be together and everything, and you also had people, you also had an issue a lot of them just didn’t want to come to Raines. I mean they would make stuff up so they could transfer and they would say “I’m living, I moved somewhere else and I don’t want to, so now I get to go to the school that is mostly White and everything.” I mean, that happens quite a bit. So you had a lot of resistance to integration, too. But as far as in the school we didn’t have any riots or anything at Raines, everybody got a long pretty good and I would go as far as to say that the faculty and everyone else there did a lot to try to make the





White students feel particularly welcome. I’ll give you one good example: for a long time we had a rule, I was a cheerleader, we had a rule on the cheerleader squad that at least, we couldn’t have all Black cheerleaders. You know, we had to have one or two White cheerleaders, if not more, you know and most of the time we did that up until the time up until the time, White students stopped trying out for the squad. For a long time we also had a rule that during homecoming, with the football queens, like we had, of course we elected the homecoming queen but the football team had to vote on Miss Viking, that was our mascot the Viking, Miss Viking, they had to vote on Miss Football and they had to vote on the team sweetheart but at least one of those women had to be White. One of those girls had to be. And that was just a matter of you know we want to be diverse, you know I mean it was kind of like a reverse kind of diverse, but it the rule is Miss Football always had to be White. You know, and I guess somebody else might ask the question okay, “What if a White girl wanted to be team sweetheart?” That’s fine, too, that was fine, too, but at least one of them had to be White because you know we had White students at our school and even though it was predominantly Black we didn’t want people to be left out so I’d say, we did a lot to try to accommodate.

	M:	Interesting, so you came to UF in 1977, what was going when you entered UF?



	W:	Let me tell you what was going on. I entered the University of Florida at a very exciting time okay? I came to the University of Florida approximately three years after, was it three or four years, after University of Florida played its first Black quarterback, Don Gaffney, who was from my high school in Jacksonville, Raines





High School. And there was a lot of anticipation about things changing as far as immigration, you know, just through the lens of what was happening on the football team at that time. Doug Dickey was the coach and there was a lot of pushback from the alumni and there was a lot of resistance from the alumni about him playing a Black quarterback. So the fact that he did that gave people a lot of hope and a lot of people saw that and the hope, I believe kind of trickled down into those of us who weren’t athletes and at the time also at that time, there was a real concerted effort to make affirmative action work, you know, which now had been all but dismantled, but at the time I mean it served to get a lot of Black students in. I believe at the time they had 10 percent rule, that said that 10 percent of the student body had to be African American, had to be minority. And I can say I came in under the 10 percent rule because even though my high school grades were good and I won essay contests and it was very clear that I could succeed in journalism, I didn’t quite make the grade, I was 20 points below the minimum SAT. So I had to come to summer school. But I did, during summer school I made straight A’s, you know. So at that time when I came the thing I kept remembering was you know “This is going to be a challenging school, this school is going to really test who I am as an individual,” but I also had kind of an issue, I’m going to say it in a way, but feeling a sense of inferiority, in a sense that I didn’t think the SAT really tested who I was. I guess I shouldn’t say feeling inferior, but I had felt like I had something to prove because when I realized something different was going on with me, was when I was in the dorm with all of these White kids who were here and we had the same books and we had all the





same books and we had taken the same the same courses, and the classes I was in was all Black, you know. And I didn’t see any of them in classes. So that kind of bothered me, so I talked to somebody about it and they said, “Well, you’ve taken the same thing but they are just going at a slower pace.” “Well, I don’t know if you need to go at a slower pace,” I mean, I don’t know about that but, to make a long story short, my goal was after the first semester, at the time there were quarters not semester, the first quarter being here I said well I got to get off this special services program because to compete in the real world I have to compete with everybody else so I got to, I mean either throw me in and I’ll sink or I’ll swim one or the other. But I had no choice but to be in on the first, because that was the agreement with you coming in. But after the first quarter and I made all A’s then you know I took another course on the program because you know, because it was math, and I’m not very good at math, you know, not very good at math, so I needed the math explained to me slowly as a matter of fact I still need math, I want to come back here and go to the school of Latin American studies, but the big thing I got to get past besides my work schedule is the GRE. So I’m taking math now so I can get the GRE but getting back to what I was saying, but then I took a class in philosophy, I took the hardest class I could find. In the second quarter and I made a B in it. So after that I got off the program completely. And that was my first- and I felt very good about that, I said well you know it was the way it was here is that there were a lot of African American students here under the program, who were kind of uncertain about where they wanted to go about with a lot of things, but they still had this sense that they





needed to succeed here, they had something to prove. I had something to prove, we all had something to prove because we felt that a lot people went to, jumped through a lot of hoops to get us to enter this school and the last thing in the world we wanted people on the outside to think was that it was a mistake or that we just wasn’t ready. So we had to get ready real quick and stuff. And it was kind of intimidating at first, but then I got into it. I felt like a warrior sort of, you know, that’s how I felt.

	M:	Okay, well let me ask you this, how well do you think that your high school prepared you for the academics of UF?

	P:	I think that, I have to be honest, I think that were it not for that one teacher in 11th grade I might have had a harder time. My one teacher, I wish I could find her to this day, Elizabeth Lee, she happened to be White, happened to be White. But very good teacher, wasn’t condescending, she taught us like she expected us to do well. She had very high expectations, she wasn’t mean, she wasn’t unfair, she was just real. You know, she said, “Listen—.” the first things that we learned in her class was Greek tragedies. We had to dissect Antigone, and the whole meaning behind this Greek tragedy and all of the drama and how the Greeks saw life. We went from there to Chaucer to the Canterbury Tales and all of those things. She was very, very good and I learned a lot, just basic writing and stuff and how to increase my vocabulary and things like that. You want to hear a story about how I wound up in her class? I tell you this story. I was in advanced classes in my high school, and the original English class I had was an expository writing class, and it was just real easy for me. Now I have to say, if you want to





take it back farther than that, one of the things that helped me was my parents, you know. My parents were educators, my dad was actually the dean of boys at my high school, my mother was an elementary school teacher, I was reading from day one. You know, I mean, I can’t stress enough the importance of reading. Reading, understanding how language works, understanding the rhythm of things, just understanding all of these things so you have some context of things, and you see how things work on paper is very important. So that’s what also helped me as well, okay. So I was in this expository writing class, it was just real easy, I was just whipping through all the assignments and everything. And it was nothing, and stuff. So at that same time in my other classes that I was having problems with, the science research and the math and everything I was in with the same students and they were complaining about Miss Lee’s class. They were talking about how hard it was, how difficult it was, everything was flunking out, nobody could do, and everything. But that was because they hadn’t really been prepared like me. Well, my expository writing teacher one day took me to the side and asked me to sit in on Miss Lee’s class, because the work was just too easy for me. And being one who likes, and I thought about not doing it, but the thing that pushed me to do it was a conversation I had at lunch, I was a cheerleader and you know it’s the age where kids, you know, the mean girl stage. You got mean girls, we were friends but we were still mean girls, we were pretty mean to each other a lot times. You know, growing up, just mean to each other, high school. So we were sitting out and I was thinking about going into class and one girl said, “Oh, you’ll never make it in that class, you’ll never be, my





friend is flunking out of that class and I know you’ll flunk out of that class.” So I wanted to just prove her wrong. And then another friend of mine said, “Well you know, well Tonyaa is real good at English, I don’t know about that, and she said real good and everything.” And this other friend said, “Well, I know she’s not good at math.” Like, I wanted to have the last word. So okay, “I’m going to show you”, but I wanted to go to that class too because I’ve always liked challenging stuff, you know, I don’t like stuff to be too impossible, but you know, I mean realistically I wasn’t going to run away from that so I did sit in on her class, I decided to take her class and the first paper I wrote I made a B on. So I was in her class, just like here, you know, I’m here, so that’s how I got in that class. So that class really prepared me more than anything else for my work here at the University of Florida because I was going to major in journalism. And the thing that sealed my fate as far as preparing me to succeed at the University of Florida and to compete in the real world, was when I went to county wide essay contest and from being in this lady’s class, the first one, the first essay I wrote was about freedom and leadership and I didn’t think, I wasn’t even going to write it because I had an option, I was lazy and I had an option, but this teacher made me write it and I sat down and I did my little research and everything and I wrote a pretty good essay. That essay won like close to 200 essays committed. It was an essay contest sponsored by the South Side Women’s Club in Jacksonville, and that’s first time I got my picture in the newspaper and they threw me on a trip, and this is a real conservative organization, too. And I mean they probably were surprised I won and I got to go to Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, and I spent like maybe a few





days a week at Freedoms Foundation. But still I got to fly for the first time, I got to fly in an airplane and after that I knew that I wanted to go to college and after that I knew I wanted to travel and I wanted to explore things a lot. So you know, so that in a sense prepared me, that made me realize that I was smart enough to do work here, you know.

	M:	Okay so it sounds like you had this great experience with Miss Lee and high school, what about your interactions with the staff at UF, did you have a good experience with them, or was it a very difficult experience?

	P:	For the most part, I had a pretty good experience with most of the instructors here. I’m trying to, I can’t really think of one I had a bad experience with, and one guy flunked me but I deserved it. I mean, I think it was a guy I was taking a fiction writing class from but I didn’t come to class. He gave me an incomplete, and then the semester, and then my last semester, my last quarter here, I had a bad, bad case of senioritis and so I missed a couple of classes too and I just didn’t make it up. But you know I can’t get mad at him, I didn’t come so, you know, I’m not mad at him about that, you know. But for the most part I had pretty good experience. I found most of the teachers to be interesting, I tell you, I like the teachers who taught… I used to challenge myself to take unusual classes and one of the classes that was really unusual was a class called “Metaphors and madness” and a lady named Barry Strauss taught it, I don’t know if she’s still here and I almost didn’t think I would make it out of that class, but I ended up with a B in her class because I had missed a lot of class too. But she was pretty good, she was good, um, let me try to see, in journalism school I had a very tough teacher, Jean





Chance, she was really good. Tough but fair, and sometimes you think you realize that, when you deal with people who’s tough and fair, and who really wants you to fail. I don’t feel like I encountered somebody who just didn’t want you to do well. I mean, I’m sure they are out there, because there were some colleagues and classmates of mine who had really mean teachers who were prejudiced and who would say racially that derogatory stuff in class, but I didn’t experience that. But there were people who would tell you it happened to them, though.

M:  What about administers, non-teachers or teaching assistants. Did you have any problems with administrators, staff or anyone like that?

P:  Nah, I mean, I couldn’t recall. I mean I didn’t really have any reason to deal with them too much actually, so no.

M:  Okay, what about if you had the ear of the administration today, what would you change, what would you change about UF, socially, educationally? If you were a dean or if you were a chancellor, what would you change?

	P:	Socially, educationally—well, it seems like the University of Florida has come a long way you know, as far as, I think if I could change something I’m kind of concerned about how African American students may or may not be getting access to the school. I just talked to… see that SAT thing comes up because I know we can’t do a whole lot about it but I just strongly believe, based on my own experience that it doesn’t prove college success. I just talked to a friend of mine who graduated in the same class with me and her daughter wasn’t able to get in UF and she had a 4.0 but her SAT scores weren’t up to par and the thing I





thought about is well don’t we have a legacy program here, I mean I thought they used legacies I mean, if you went you ought to be able to get in, but they apparently gave her a hard time. I guess if we had a legacy program and we still have it then it ought to be used for everybody. But if what she’s telling me is true, then it ought to be everybody, I mean, don’t change it now that the Black students who went here and who now have kids who want to come in. I mean now is not the time to change it. I mean two decades of people who have gone through here. So you know given everything else, if she had a 4 point, given that everything else was working okay, I mean if her child was flunking out of school and making F’s then that’s one thing. But that’s not what’s going on. If I had could tell them another thing, I think that maybe there needs to be stronger outreach to the Black alumni that are here. I think we need some stronger outreach, um, the young lady here was just telling me how some other organizations have better reunions and activities because they are able to get sponsors. And I’m just wondering what’s the university doing to assist the ABA in getting sponsors? I mean the ABA can go out and get sponsors, too, but it sure helps to have the administration at UF behind you in doing that, because of the weight it carries. So it just seems to me that maybe they can do a little bit more about getting with us and finding out what it is we can do to strengthen our activities and pull more people in.

	M:	What’s your take on bright futures, you were talking about what kind of outreach to the African American community to encourage more Black students to come to UF. Do you have an opinion on that?





	P:	No, not really. I mean, they keep changing it. I mean, I don’t know. No, not really.



	M:	Is there anything else I left out that you would like to talk about, that you think is important to documenting your experience at UF?

	P:	I can’t think of anything else. I think I pretty much said enough about getting here, how I got here. You know how I got here and how I made it here. I mean one of the things I did when I was here and was important, and I guess I was able to do it because my parents paid my way through school, I was very lucky I didn’t get financial aid, but I experimented with a lot of different classes. I took an art class, I took a studio art class and I guess if I had to say anything to the students coming here now, don’t be afraid to experiment with different classes. I took the studio class, I took a lot of classes from Sid Homan, he’s a literature guy here, but all of those classes helped me become the writer that I am right now. Right now I’m a columnist and editorial writer with the Florida Times Union. I’m doing a national column at Black American web dot-com. As a matter of fact, if you want to put this in the oral history, I’m the first African American ever on the Florida Times Union editorial board. In many ways it didn’t mean a whole lot, because they still are pretty much center-right about stuff, but not the stuff that I write. But I get to write about pretty much when I want to write about. So but I still have the influence and the hammer of being on the editorial board when we are discussing how we are going to do, you know, the stands we make on certain issues and certainly if an issue had been with African Americans, and I think that they are on the wrong track, I would certainly tell them. And most of the time, you will see





that reflected in whatever it is they decide to write. So it could be worse if I wasn’t there.

	M:	Okay, how well do you think UF prepared you for that, you know, kind of your post-collegiate career?

	P:	Very well. The journalism school is the best ever. Very well.



	M:	I afraid I’m deficient on any knowledge of the journalism school other than that it’s a good program.

	P:	I worry about journalism now because of all the different technology changes, you know. I think that people are being fed a bill of goods by thinking that you know, bloggers can replace a real journalist and real people can go out and hit the streets and ask the questions and do the interviews and see people face to face, just like you’re doing now. And I kind of worry about it. I worry about what I call the so-called journalism affirmation, meaning that bigoted people go find other bigoted people to tell them stuff that they find fact and they are not facts. Fox News is not fair and balanced, it’s not even factual. But they may be factual but what they do is they take facts out of context, you know. And facts without context is really lies, really lies. So I worry about the future in journalism but I have enough confidence in schools like this one particularly journalism school that they will find a way to meet this challenge as we all have to do in the industry right now.

	M:	Anything else you’d like to speak of? W:	No, I’m done.

	M:	Well, thank you very much. I appreciate your time.











[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Richard Brust, October 5, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, August 22, 2017 Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019