AAHP 441; Simmons; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 441 Mary Alice Simmons African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Vickie Oldham on August 31, 2015 31 minutes | 13 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Mary Alice Simmons recalls how she obtained basic necessities as an adolescent, and what it was like to grow up in a segregated area. She reminisces on being excited to move to public housing in 1955, as well as bus rides with domestic workers. As her parents had no transportation, Simmons depicts how her father would lift her up and run to the hospital during medical emergencies. She speaks on some of her famous relatives who were first settlers in Sarasota, and how she envisions Newtown’s future.



Keywords: [African American History; Segregation; Overtown; Newtown; Sarasota]



Standards:

1. SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 441 (Newton Oral History Project) Interviewee: Mary Alice Simmons Interviewer: Vickie Oldham

Date: August 31, 2015



	O:	It's Monday, August 31st. What is your name? M:	Mary Alice Simmons.

[Break in recording]



	O:	You all did not have any plumbing. You had no bathrooms in the house. Where was the bathroom?

	M:	There was the outhouse.



	O:	Help us understand the outhouse. How far was it from the house?



	M:	Maybe ten, fifteen feet. We had no running water; we had pump water.



	O:	So help me understand that. No running water, so you'd go out to a pump? M:	Yes.

	O:	To pump some water to, say, wash dishes or wash your hair?



	M:	Yes, do the laundry, yes. And we bathed in that water. If you wanted hot water you had to heat it.

	O:	On the stove?



	M:	On the stove, yes.



	O:	So how did you heat? Was it a wood fire burning stove or how? Electricity? M:	Not at all we didn't have that either, there were lamps.

	O:	Lamps?



	M:	Yes.



	O:	Okay Mary yes you've got to describe more about how you all did the basic necessities like cook.

	M:	Well being a child I couldn't be anywhere near a stove. I couldn't touch that. But





there were like portable oil stoves. I don't know if they used kerosene or what but certainly we weren't allowed. As far as the light is concerned, we used kerosene laps and you see people using them for camping and stuff, that's what we used for light. The pump was right outside the door. During laundry time, there was a bench for doing the laundry and there were three tubs: wash, rinse, and rinse again.

Before Clorox Bleach there was a boil pot, big pot where you would boil the clothes to get them white. There were clothes lines and you hung up the clothes, dried naturally.

	O:	Was there running water in other homes perhaps?



	M:	I wouldn't have known that because we weren't allowed to be going from house to house.

	O:	Okay so you did not fellowship or play with White children?



	M:	No way. They weren't anywhere near. At the time Tenth Street was the boundary for us. We were told not to go any further than Tenth Street. The only time I would see White people is when my grannie would take me downtown to grocery shop, or to go to the five-and-dime store.

	O:	What was that experience like then?



	M:	Always enjoyed it. I really enjoyed it, going with shopping her. Go to the grocery store, you get a taxi to take your groceries home because they would take your groceries in the house for you. And then with the groceries being gone, we would walk down to Main Street and the smell of the peanuts in the five-and-dime store. I would skip through the Lloyd's Arcade, I almost cried when they got rid of it, but the Lloyd's arcade reached from Main Street to First Street. And there were was a





William's Stationary Store in there along with Palmer Bank.



	O:	Could you use the restrooms in the stores where you shopped?



	M:	No you wouldn't. Well kids wouldn't ask very many questions. I remember an ice cream place and I wanted an ice cream cone. So I asked grannie, "Grannie can I have an ice cream cone?" She said, "Yeah, sit here." So she told me to sit on the curb. I never forget the place, Oleander's. And so grannie went in Oleander's and got me an ice cream cone and brought it outside. I looked at her, I looked at the cone and I looked at the people sitting inside, wondering why we couldn't go in.

But you didn't ask adult questions, the end. You just did as you were told.



	O:	Did you need to go to the restroom during one of those times when you went downtown and couldn't?

	M:	I think the only place that we were comfortable going, I was, was the Seaboard Coastline Railroad and there were Black and White bathrooms. Same thing with the water fountains. If you need to go to the bathroom, then you could go to the train station as we said.

	O:	I've heard that story before. M:	Okay.

	O:	When was your first connection to someone that was a color other than yours, or a race other than yours, when?

	M:	Wow. Oh, I remember. There was something my senior year of high school that we were supposed to be exchanging—not students and such but we were taken to Riverview to talk to the students there. I'm not sure of what the subjects were. It was very uncomfortable.





	O:	Why was it uncomfortable?



	M:	Out of our comfort zone really. In living where we did, the Altman Chevrolet was owned by White people, the grocery stores were owned by White people, that was that. That's how we—

[Plane passing by]



	O:	We'll wait not the plane Mary but you were saying those were the White people you did get a chance to see because they had businesses in the community.

	M:	Yes, on a daily basis. [Plane passing by]

	O:	Okay so the question was, when did you get a chance to interact with people who were another color other than Black?

	M:	That was the only time, like I said the grocery stores in the community was owned by Whites. The drug stores, we called it, was owned, the gas station, Altman Chevrolet—and of course Blacks had business—U.S. Royal Tire. That part of exchange, that's how we did on a daily basis but as far as that socializing, no.

	O:	When did you socialize with Whites?



	M:	I think I started socializing when I moved to Miami [Laughter]. It just wasn't happening here.

	O:	It was not happening here. How old were you when you moved to Miami? M:	Oh God, so grown...about twenty-three, twenty-four.

	O:	So it was basically Blacks stayed in one area of the community and there was some sort of boundary.

	M:	Absolutely.





	O:	And then Whites stayed on their side. And never the two mix that you remember other than the patronizing the business.

	M:	Exactly.



	O:	When did you move to public housing? M:	1955.

	O:	How old were you then?



	M:	My sister was a baby; I was about seven or eight.



	O:	Okay talk to me about public housing because this was not Overtown anymore with its houses without electricity or bathrooms.

	M:	Exciting. O:	Why?

	M:	Bathroom, yard with grass, playground, electricity, we had a stove and everything. There right now where Seventeen [Street] is, there were sidewalks. That was the other thing, sidewalks. Just better than where we came from.

	O:	Describe the community and how you interacted in that public housing community.



	M:	There was a lady lived next door that had a black and white television. So yes she was the only one. And she would let the neighborhood kids come in in the afternoon to watch Howdy Doody Time. It was exciting. Her name was Ms. Ethel Chairs and she let the kids—we all came and watched Howdy Doody. We didn't know anything about the television, that was great. Only thing we knew was the movie but a television and different programs, that was exciting.

[Preparing another interviewer]



	Hope:	Did any women in your community back then work for White people.





	M:	Oh absolutely, sure a lot of them were maids, yes. [Break in recording]

	M:	Bus driver named Hank. The women were lined in white uniforms catching that bus to go to work.

		Hope:	Sounds like the movie Help. O:	Yeah it does.

	M:	That's exactly what it was. O:	Where were they going? M:	All over Longboat, Siesta...

		Hope:	Was anything Anne talked about that? M:	I'm sure there were but probably more local.

O: Well like Ms. Glossie, Fred's mother worked for the LaGasses, plumbing business people and she mentioned being off Bee Ridge or Fruitvale or something like that. And my grandmother worked for a woman named Mrs. Carr, she lived in the Hyde Park area near Morton's Market.

	Hope:	That was a high end—I mean it was a rich neighborhood then.



	O:	Oh yeah and she would take us to work and we would play while she's vacuuming and cleaning and all. And then we got to the age where we could help her clean and we did, but yeah. How's the questioning going so far?

		Hope:	I think it's terrific. I just wonder— O:	Okay we got to be quiet.

[Break in recording]



	Hope:	...will turn around and there'll be less problem with the drugs and the gangs





and that.



		M:	I can only pray on that. Hope:	It's in the Lord's hands?

	M:	Yes, it is because I have a young man, I have a son and he didn't understand why I put my foot on his neck. I'm told that when a boy gets to be a certain age, you need to let him go. I didn't let him go and now he's 41 and he said, "Now I know what you were talking about." You don't find many Black men, when they pull them over and they check their license, they have no record.

	O:	All right and that was because you kept your foot on his neck? M:	Yep.

	O:	Kept that discipline going.



	M:	Yep, because he would have quit school. He would have paid attention to his cousins, his peers. You know how kids are. And when he got to be thirteen, fourteen, he could eat off the top of head [Laughter]. I can be a mother but I couldn't teach him how to be a man. So I sent him to my brothers and my brothers' in laws.

[Break in recording]



	O:	So let me go ahead and ask that question that Hope asked about the domestic workers and the bus and so set that scene up. What did that look like?

	M:	We lived in the projects, number ten which fronts Orange Avenue. Every morning there was a city transit bus, I never forget they were green and white, and the ladies would be lined up to catch that bus to go to work. All of them in white uniforms, so you knew where they were going to work. The only nurse I





remember... I can't think of her name but that's what they were doing, domestic work.

	O:	You're brining me to medical services. When you got sick what did you do? When you were in Overtown or...

	M:	The hospital had an old building for Black people. I used to have epileptic seizure. O:	You had seizures?

	M:	Uh-huh. So my mom said my dad would just pick me, they had no transportation, and he'd run to the hospital.

	O:	With you on his back? On his arms? M:	In his arms.

	O:	On foot?



	M:	On foot. That's what I hear. I was born in the old—there was a section there they had for Blacks. So that's where I was born. I remember mom mentioning Dr.

Holton, I'm not sure. As we grew up, when it came to dental work, they had newer dentists that would see us after five o'clock. There's a Dr. Patterson that rings in my ear for whatever reason. I can't remember but we were just fortunate.

	O:	And turpentine, do you remember them putting turpentine on things?



	M:	Yeah. McEerie Coleman iodine, yeah. But Dr. Patterson is awfully familiar for whatever reason.

	O:	Maybe he was one of the doctors that treated you? M:	Maybe he was.

	O:	I've heard stories from, say, Wade Harvin who said that he can't remember going to a doctor. It was the turpentine that cured everything.





	M:	They had that, I think it still works.



	O:	Well I talked to Dr. Washington Hill about it and he said, "Yeah." There was a time when turpentine and sugar seemed to cure everything and doctors felt that way too, turpentine and sugar.

	M:	Oh okay. [Break in recording]

	O:	So Mary we were talking about your life in the projects, at public housing. You were describing the morning, seeing the bus roll up. Continue.

	M:	Like I said every morning, including Sundays, the buses were there. The ladies in the white uniforms going to work. That was before urban renewal in Newtown so all the roads weren't paved until the buses started running. When they finally decided the pave the streets, only the streets that the bus ran on were paved. We walked to school from the projects. No big deal. In fact we walked everywhere.

When it came to us playing, there was a parking lot but you knew your neighbors. It was much better than from what we had come from, with the bathroom and everything. We had grass. When you needed your grass cut, you would go down to the office and check out the lawn mower, manual, and you pushed that lawn mower. These were our chores that we had to do. I've always loved lawn work, working outside anyway. So that's where that started.

	O:	Has much changed about the look of public housing on Orange Avenue since you were reared there?

	M:	Oh absolutely, I don't know if it's central air and heat, but they have air conditioning now. They can park in the yards now. We had a parking lot where everyone had to





park their vehicles in one central location. Certainly there painted and everything, I'm sure they've upgraded them. But the walls must have been poured with solid concrete because they're still standing and I understand they were built in 1938. They're still standing.

	O:	Help me with medical services. M:	None.

	O:	What did you do when you got sick?



	M:	Your mother or your grandmother took care of you. O:	Old remedies?

	M:	Old remedies.



	O:	Do you remember any of them?



	M:	[Laughter] Well of course Castor Oil, everybody knows Castor Oil. I remember something called salapatica. I don't know if they still make it. We were always given a laxative once a month. I don't remember having a headache as a kid. The colds: Father John. Everything was done at home. I don't remember seeing a doctor until, my goodness, I was grown. That's how I remember it.

	O:	Really? You shared a story though about your dad taking you up under his arms.



Tell me that story.



	M:	Well I had epileptic seizures, I don't know where they came from—and this is a story from my mother—that when I should start having them, dad would take me under his arms and run to the hospital.

	O:	On foot?



	M:	On foot.





	O:	That's a couple of miles from, say, Overtown to where Sarasota Memorial Hospital is.

	M:	Yes dad was very athletic, he was a boxer. O:	Tell me about your boxer dad, I didn't know.

	M:	Oh okay, I don't know very much I just know that he was a boxer. He taught me how to box [Laughter]. But he was very athletic.

	O:	So that explains why he could take you under his arms— M:	—and run, yes.

	O:	You have some very famous relatives who were first settlers here in Sarasota. So describe them, their names and how do you know their affiliation with Sarasota?

	M:	Well for the most part, I only know what I read because as I said I didn't understand why Ms. Ethel Hayes called me "Little Cousin." You just responded, that's all. But in talking with my mother, we were related through the Colsons. Ms. Hayes' grandmother was a Colson. And from my understanding, Leonard Reed was already here. Ms. Coleman worked for Mr. Gillespie, that's how that got going.

	O:	And Ms. Coleman was married to Leonard Reed. M:	Yes.

	O:	And Mrs. Gillespie is John Gillespie and Leonard Reed married Minnie.



	M:	Right. But no I didn't know very much about them and that's still something that I need to find out. I only knew that they would tell me, "That's your cousin." Anne Colson, "That's your cousin." When I grew up all I knew was Bethlehem Baptist Church. There was also Payne Chapel but my aunt, my grandma, the family was Bethlehem Baptist Church. When I did research on John Mays, Bethlehem Baptist





Church was built the same way as the church that was built in Madison, Florida, exactly like the church. Our poppa was carpenter as well as a fisherman. So an exact replica of Concordia Church in Madison, Florida. I talked with a lady, she said, "You one of those Mays?" I said, "My mother was." She said, "Did you know that you come from Madison County?" I said, "Yes, yes I do." She said, "Well y'all owned us." I was so embarrassed. I said, "What do you mean?" She said, "You owned us." I did check it out, she was right. And that was embarrassing to me. But I know there were Black slave owners in them days, so it's one of those things.

	O:	How did you survive Overtown and Newtown to this point?



	M:	My parents, my parents that was it, my parents. Mom was always at home. Sometimes dad worked three jobs but he also had his shop. Always worked, sometimes like I said three jobs. He was has a housing inspector one time for the city. My grandpa Mays worked for the city of Sarasota, he worked on the garbage truck for the city.

	O:	What do you envision Newtown's future to be in looking beyond today?



	M:	You know what, I've always thought about it. I was working for a lady, I asked, "How did Longboat Key become Longboat Key? How did these cities become?" That's what I envision for Newtown. I understand we don't have the tax base right now but I think Newtown should be a town within Sarasota. I think Newtown should have it's own mayor, it's own police department. If the tax base ever gets there where that can be supported, that's what I look for Newtown.

	O:	Why would you like it to be that way?



	M:	There is nothing about having your own, doing for yourself, just making your own





way. There's nothing like it, I don't think.



	O:	And it sounds like that's what you all did and had to do in Overtown, in Newtown, in the early years certainly. So you're accustomed to being self-sufficient.

	M:	Yes, my dad told me—I'm the oldest in my group—and he told me, he said, "The only thing that a man has on you is strength. You can do anything you set your mind to do." And I always remember that. I think the limits, you put on yourself. You don't let anybody validate you. You don't let anybody put any boundaries on you. And don't tell me I can't. Yes you can, yes you can. So I don't like excuses— things happen of course. I don't like excuses, just go ahead and do it [Laughter].

	O:	That's a great place to end. [End of interview]





	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 5, 2020