AAHP 202A; Leath; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 202A Mamie Lee Leath African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Ryan Morini on October 31, 2011 2 hours | 42 pages



Abstract: Mamie Lee Leath (b. 1927) was born and raised in Gainesville, Florida, in the historic Porter’s Quarters neighborhood. She talks about her family history, including grandparents who had a farm out in Jonesville, and shares the community and household dynamics she grew up with, including her chores, and the businesses that she remembers from 5th Avenue. She also talks about her educational experiences in attending Lincoln High School, and the teachers she had there. Mrs. Leath describes her working life, including at the Atkins crate mill near Porter’s. The end of the interview entails further discussion of entertainment in Gainesville and in Black neighborhoods in other towns, and some of the Chitlin’ Circuit performers who came through.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Lincoln High School]



Standards

1. SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.







































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 202A

Interviewee: Mamie Lee Leath Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: October 31, 2011



	M:	This is Ryan Morini on October 31st, 2011. I’m sitting in the living room of Miss Mamie Leath on 704 SW 5th Terrace in Gainesville. Could you state your full name and your date of birth?

	L:	My name is Mamie Lee Leath, I was born December 19th year [19]27. M:	Okay and you were born where?

	L:	In Gainesville, Florida.



	M:	Okay, right in this neighborhood or do you—?



	L:	The address was 523 South Berry Street, Gainesville Florida. That’s an old address, 523.

	M:	Where is that in relation to where we’re sitting? L:	Right there in that big lot.

	M:	Okay just right across—



L:  Right across on the corner there, the Rickon lot. There was a house there, that’s where I was born. The address there was 523 Southwest Berry Street it changed into SW 511—SW 7th place.

M:   7th place.



	L:	That was old, got a new address when they tore the house down. M:	I see and who delivered you, was there a midwife or a doctor?

L:   No. Dr. Lassity



M:   Dr. Lassity.



L:   City doctor.



M:   Okay.





	L:	He would come out and delivered the baby. He was our family doctor. M:	I see. He was a White man?

	L:	Yes he was, Dr. Lassity.



	M:	Did you know him well growing up?



	L:	Yes I did. That was our family doctor. He delivered all seven of my mother’s children. The first two he didn’t because my mother and them didn’t live here then, that was one year. But when they came here I was born. My brother, the oldest was born and my brother Henry was born. The seven of us was born in that house. There was seven of us.

	M:	Where did your parents come from?



	L:	My father came from Columbus, Georgia. My mother came from Jonesville, Florida. I think going towards Newberry.

	M:	I see and where had they been living together before they came here? L:	My mother and father?

	M:	Uh-huh.



	L:	My mother and father got married here- M:	Okay.

	L:	And they met. My mother’s first husband, he got killed in a car wreck on the Fourth of July and they had two children but they was born still-born.

	M:	What did your parents do here in town? For a living, to make money. L:	My daddy was a presser.

	M:	Okay.





	L:	He worked at the Alto el Starks cleaners, dry cleaners. My mother was a seamstress, she sewed. She sewed for people, made dresses and things so—

	M:	I see, and the dry cleaners, was that in the neighborhood or—?



	L:	It wasn’t in the neighborhood, it was downtown in the business section of Gainesville. Alto el Starks cleaners, dry cleaners. Then he also worked for different cleaners. [Inaudible 4:20] If you come and offer him a nickel more he’ll go to you and stop to come back and offer him a nickel more you go back you change and they kept competing. When the war broke my father went to New York, because they were paid more and the war had broke out. They was drafting people, drafting them into the service and they needed people to work in the cleaners in the laundry and know how to clean and press. He went up there in New York because there they were paying by piece work, he got paid by piece. That’s why he left and—that’s where he stayed at until he died.

	M:	Your mother did the seamstress work for—who did she work for? Where did she—?

	L:	Herself.



	M:	Herself? So she just— L:	Home.

	M:	Whoever needed some—?



L:  Yeah, something to bring their material and then—she would—whatever they wanted me, she would make it. She didn’t charge that much, call it tailor, and didn’t charge so much.

M:   I see, what were you parent’s names, by the way?





	L:	My mother and father both Ceroy Leath, Rebecca Leath. Rebecca Leath, Ceroy Leath.

	M:	What was your mother’s maiden name?



	L:	My mother’s maiden name was Rebecca Whitaker. M:	Whitaker, I see. Your grandparents, what did they do?

	L:	My grandmother and my grandfather was Childs: Willie Childs and Elizabeth Childs. C-H-I-L-D-S

	M:	I see, and they lived where?



	L:	Out in the country, Jonesville. Farmers.



	M:	That’s—so growing up, how often did you see your grandparents out in Jonesville?

	L:	We’d see our grandparents every weekend, every Friday. If they didn’t come to town on Friday, mostly on Saturday they would come to the county to do the shopping and paid the bill. If they needed to order the cows and the hogs or something they come to town and go and put the order in they would deliver it to them on Mondays on the farm.

	M:	I see. You grew up, I guess, helping your grandparents on the farm?



	L:	Go after school in the summer. That’s where we had to go out there and work out there.

	M:	Is that where your family got some of their food from? Or where—?



	L:	She would bring us food, yeah. Whenever on Saturday’s he would bring us milk, buttermilk, butter. When she’d be there, made homemade butter, churn the butter, buttermilk. Bring us eggs, bring us some meat, where they take and cure





meat in the smokehouse. Bring us syrup. It would be amazing syrup. They butchered, when they killed and butchered it whole and put it in the smokehouse to bring us some meat. We’re gonna make the sauces, bring the sauces. Yep.

	M:	What kinds of crops did they grow out there?



	L:	Oh they’d grow corn, beans, peas, cucumbers, okras, tomatoes.



	M:	All this stuff and they sold a lot of it? Or did they—was it mostly for food or—?



	L:	Mostly was for the house, because they’d live away. They’d go pick up [inaudible 9:08]. They’d work—I think the people that owned that property out there, they still got that house it’s—I can’t think of the name of the people that owned that property, but that house is still there ‘cause I was reading about it and they had a picture of the houses. It was on that property out there. I don’t know whether it’s a log cabin or not, but it’s in one of those growers out there going towards Jonesville. People would go and they served them. You can go ahead and read on it, it’s down in the library. It should be at University of Florida, too because the people there owned that, it was slavery still. It’s a big ride up, history about that, that property. Only whoever owned that property worked it for them, you pick up [inaudible 10:29] and they would plant cotton. Pick cotton on half, some things you got tied up with. My mother wouldn’t hardly let us—my daddy wouldn’t let us go out there to pick cotton much. My mother, she would let us go, my daddy wouldn’t let us go. I’ve been wanting to go pick up [inaudible 11:05] pick beans and picking cantaloupes, cucumbers, we can go and do that, but not to pick no cotton.





	M:	I can understand that. Did your grandparents---did they grow up in the area or did they?

	L:	They didn’t grow up out in—it was from the country.



	M:	Okay. I mean had they grown up from more or less on that land or did they come into the property later?

	L:	They come in the property later.



	M:	Okay, okay. Well, what was it like to grow up in this neighborhood? You—



	L:	Now, I loved it, I love it today. I love my home, this is my home. We all lived like a family, everybody down here. We didn’t know what it was to sleep with all the doors closed and the windows down and locked. Everybody can go to sle—, the doors wide open, the windows up. Nobody would come in and harm you, do anything. We’d play cards in our backyard, everybody had a garden. What I didn’t have in my garden, you welcome to go and get it. What you had in your garden, I’m welcome to go. I didn’t have to ask, you didn’t have to be home, you just go and help yourself. That’s just the way we lived it down here. You got your work, you depend on me. We look after your children. If I didn’t mind you, you had too with me. You had— and when you came in home and tell me I’m gonna get another whipping. That’s just the way it was. We looked at—my parents looked after your children, yours looked after mine. And we better mind, we better mind. If we had chores to do, we better do our chores before we go out there to play, ‘cause then they come in, whatever we had to do it better be done.

	M:	Did you have a lot of chores growing up? L:	I did.





	M:	What kinds of chores?



	L:	I had to cook. By me being the oldest my mother worked. If she had a day off she’d go out and work. I had to cook, I had to clean, I had to look after my younger sister and brother and when I finished cooking they had better been fed. In that kitchen, everything better be tidy up when they come in. Each one of us, we had something to do, my brothers, they also. The baby, if he big enough to pick up a piece of wood, he better pick up a piece of wood and bring it and put it behind that stove and have wood for me to start to cook with.

	M:	You cooked on a wood stove?



	L:	Yeah, we had a wood stove. I can tell you the first pot I cooked. M:	Oh yeah?

	L:	Lima beans. Had to stand up in a chair. I was seven years old. My older brother, he built the fire in the stove. You see, that’s why it was built, for me. He’d draw the water up, we had a far up pump. Pump the water, we had to walk by far from here to the kitchen to the pump out in the yard and bring water in the kitchen, getting in the water and get that wood together. After you get that water fountain in there and get that fire start, he was free to go and it was up to me to do the rest. Now the others, they out there playing, they didn’t rake the yard or whatever, they don’t go their room tidy up.

	M:	But you were the cook.



	L:	Yeah, I’m in there cooking, mad. But I had to do it.



	M:	Did you ever get to get away and play with the other kids?





	L:	Sometimes, sometimes, but mostly when I did it would be on the weekend. On the weekend I got a chance to play. Sunday we all go to church, spend all day at the church, we’d go to Sunday school. After Sunday school we’d go to morning service and after that, we’d come home, we’d eat then go back to afternoon service and then come home. We’d go back for BYU and night service.

	M:	BYU?



	L:	BYU, that’s bible study. M:	I see.

	L:	Bible study and well we discuss the bible and until time for having the night service it started at seven thirty and by nine o’clock we’d be out. Then we’d go home, get ready to go to bed for school, get up Monday morning and school is in. We had to walk over to Lincoln High from over here, we walked over there. Then it’ll get cold, too cold, then it rain too hard, we had to get up and get to that school, better not be late. You better be on time.

	M:	That’s when Lincoln had first grade in the early—? L:	Uh-huh.

	M:	That was your school your whole life then? L:	Yeah, uh-huh, from first to twelfth.

	M:	Did you have any chores in the mornings before you went to school?



	L:	Oh yeah. We’d have to get up, my mother—Mondays is laundry. We had to get up draw the water, get the laundry water up. We had 5 tubs of water we had to get up. Five o’clock in the morning get up and get that water all drawn up. Then if I had to iron me something to get to school, we had the smoothing iron. We heat





the iron on top of the stove and then iron what I want because I didn’t want to wear wrinkle so I wanted it to be ironed, looking neat. I used to get up 4:30, five o’clock in the morning, get my clothes all together, what I’m gonna wear to school. My mother get up, she fix out breakfast and our lunch and we start out to school at seven thirty because we had to be in school at eight and that solid bell rang at eight-fifteen That first bell ring, you better be near that school because when that second bell rang you got to line up and march in to school to your class. There ain’t no cutting up in that line or they will whip you. March us in, we be there from eight-thirty to three in the afternoon.

	M:	Where did you walk to get to school?



	L:	We walked from my home over right ‘round that corner to Lincoln. M:	Any particular route, or you just—different routes?

	L:	Oh yeah. Gainesville High School was where 720 going at on Second Avenue.



You know where the 720 building?



	M:	I think so.



	L	It’s across from AG Hospital. The hospital the building is still the 720 building over there where HIS at? That was Gainesville High School, the White high school, the White high school, but where the hospital was at, that was the trailer park, the tourist camp. That’s where the tourist came from out of town and that was where they put down. Where the emergency entrance of Alachua Hospital, that was the old original of AGH, Alachua County Hospital. And they changed it from Alachua County Hospital to Alachua General Hospital, made it a private hospital. Miss Overstreet Girl School of Nursing was on the corner of Twelfth –of





Eleventh, and Second Avenue. Right on the corner where the helicopter pad was where the hospital was—where the helicopter pad was—well that was an upstairs house and in the corner was a house where Dr. Armand office was on the corner. Behind him, Eighth and Eleventh Street next to the hospital was Miss Overstreet Girls’s Nursing School—that’s where the girls went to nursing, took up nursing. That was school and when they graduated they worked in the hospital. When they built, and they added on to, that’s when made the new part with the emergency, that’s where all parking lot, that’s where the old part was and they built the new part behind it.

	M:	Okay. Where was your route to school in the— L:	Near commons?

	M:	Uh-huh.



	L:	We’ll go up Sixth Street before they put the pavement that was North Street. The railroad came straight through. It was Second Avenue; it was Fourth Avenue which was Arlington Street. They had changed the name to Arlington Street, they hadn’t changed it to Fourth Avenue, it was Arlington Street. Then, Fourth Avenue was Arlington Street, Fifth Avenue that was there but it was a dirt road. It came all the way across from Main Street all the way to Thirteenth Street like it is now, but they changed it to—what was the name of that street? It was a dirt road down here—oh God I can’t think that name of it now but we would take that street and go around the Seventh Street and cut through and come out by Gainesville High School, and cut back 720 which was Gainesville High and go to University. Cross over and keep that—that’s Eighth Street—keep it all the way over to Fifth





Avenue. The we’d take Fifth Avenue over down to Seventh Street, turn to Seventh Street take us to Lincoln High School.

	Unidentified speaker:	Hey!



L:

Hey!

M:

Hi.

US:

How are you?

L:

Hey.

US:

How’re you doing?

M:

Not bad.

US:

You don’t have to get up.

M:

Oh.

US:

What are they doing?

L:

Giving—

M:

Doing an interview.

US:

Oh, for what?

M:

The Oral History Program.

US:

Oh! I heard about that. How’s it going? She knows everything; she’s an



abundance of information.

M:

I’ve been seeing that.

US:

Okay. I’ll see you later, Anthony is one his way in, I’ll see you later.

L:

That’s one of my sons.

M:

It’s nice to meet him.

US:

I’ll call you later to check on you, mamma.





	L:	All right.



	M:	Well, that was how you got to school then? You were just talking about your route to school.

	L:	Well, everyday you’d had to fight. We had to fight with Gainesville High School students. It was a thing, we had to bypass, we had to pass they ground to get to ours. Well we got through we got to make up somewhere where we got to run. All we got to fight. Most of the time we out run them, all right. Now their mistake—if they make a mistake and forget that they come out of their territory in our territory, then they got to start running. We were all right at the time to come back in the afternoon. That was fun, but we did that. On Sundays— it’s a funny thing, we did that during the week going to school but on Sundays, did you know we played—they played our football with our team. Every Sunday we would get together on this street right here, right up there where they’re building.

	M:	Okay.



	L:	Right in the middle of the street we’d play football, play each other. They would come until we got over here with the 720 where. . . with family practice right here. Before they built family practice down on the Reykon [vacant?] lot, we would go and clean that lot out that way they would go play football. That’s where all the kids gang up on Sunday after we come home from church in the afternoon.

That’s when they go change and put on they football you know—‘cause they gonna be waiting on us— waiting on. You talk about having fun? Play together for that football, until Monday morning and we had to all start running again. They wanted to play Lincoln High. Lincoln High wanted to play games because





Gainesville High had a good team; Lincoln High had a good team and they wanted to play but they wouldn’t let us. They wouldn’t let us, but eventually they did when they accepted—and they did get a chance to play.

	M:	When was that? Do you remember?



	L:	I wasn’t here when that happened. When they integrated the schools, I wasn’t here I was in New York. As I understand they did play each other before the—

	M:	They’d play informally on Sundays?



	L:	No, unh-uh, they played like they usually do at games. Then they start playing out in Citizen field. That’s where they would go out and play in Citizen field.

That’s where they would go play the games that.



	M:	Did you watch a lot of the Lincoln games when you were grown-up?



	L:	Oh yeah, I followed them all. I was a score-keeper for the basketball one. I loved the sports, but I didn’t like to play it. I will follow wherever they go to play it, I will be there.

	M:	Where do you remember going to?



L:  I went to Palatka, Jacksonville, Ocala. US:  Documentary, uh?

M: Interview. US: Interview. M:  Yeah.

US:  Okay. I’m her son Anthony.



M:   Hi, I’m Ryan, nice to meet you.





	A:	Okay. Now what type of—if you don’t mind me asking—what type of interview is this, now? If you don’t mind me asking.

	M:	It’s an oral history interview. Yeah, this is with the Oral History Program at UF.



	A:	It’s going to be like a book or something, like a movie or something going on the tape?

	M:	It’s going to be an interview. Yeah, like a tape.



	A:	Okay. Something that’s going to be for the general public to listen to at some point?

	M:	That is exactly what it is, yeah. A:	Okay.

	M:	We’re still working on getting all that stuff online, it’s kinda slow with UF, but we share these things with the libraries. We’ll be giving a copy back here.

	A:	Just kinda curious, something that’s going to be similar toward the movie Rosewood, was based on going back that far and providing various stories and information?

	M:	I think that’s kinda the idea, yeah. I mean we’re open to newer information, too. It’s whatever people talk about, but yeah, anything people can speak about or can remember, that kinda thing. I mean I don’t know if you know the interviews Joe Buchanan did in the [19]80s but it’s kinda like that.

	A:	Actually, I’m not familiar with that there.



	M:	Some of the transcripts are online, the audio isn’t for the most part, but you can see the transcripts if you want to. He interviewed people from the area back then.

	A:	How you coming along, sweetheart? You not boring this gentleman, are you?





	L:	Unh-huh.



	A:	You giving him some serious stuff? L:	Uh-huh I hope so [Laughter].

	M:	Oh yeah.



	A:	I’m let y’all get back to it. Excuse me, excuse me. M:	Sure. Let’s see, you went to Palatka, you went to—

	L:	I went to Palatka, I went to Ocala, I went to Lake City, I went to Tallahassee, they played Tallahassee. St. Petersburg, Daytona, wherever they went to play, I would go. Yeah, and every game they played here, I was there. We didn’t have cab or pay no cab, we had to walk—you know where we played? Every game was played out there in Citizen Field, they call it Harrison Field. Then they changed it to Citizen Field. That’s where we had to play, and they built the bleachers and they named it Citizen Field, but it was old, old, old old. They played the G-men’s, they had a baseball team, White baseball team they call it the G-men’s, that’s where they played at, baseball. We would go out there and we’d play football.

	M:	I see. Did anyone have a baseball team in the neighborhood?



	L:	We had a baseball team here and—what was the name of that team? They played out there. Oh lord, I can’t think of—but it was a good team, and I used to sell tickets for the game, played on Sundays. We walked out there, and we walked back.

	M:	A lot of walking.





	L:	We didn’t mind it. You get a crowd of kids and they start talking and running they mouth, you’d be surprised how far they can walk [Laughter]. Pay it no mind.

	M:	I suppose that’s true.



	L:	Just to get out of the house, we used to beg and be so glad, we thinking nothing about that, wasn’t nothing. I tell you another thing you should know, we used to on Sundays get together. We used to walk for an hour down there. Walk back we had a lot of schoolmates live out there. We go out there and visit them. If they can walk every morning to get to school, we can certainly walk out there and visit them. They didn’t complain; it didn’t bother us.

	M:	How long did it take to walk? L:	It took us about two hours.

	M:	That’s a good walk.



	L:	Yeah, it wasn’t nothing ‘cause it wasn’t nothing. I had walk from out there behind North Florida region. Yeah.

	M:	That’s a pretty good walk, too.



	L:	‘Cause the bus. If you miss that last bus, twelve o’clock on Saturday, you had to walk it. Now Homecoming coming up, right? The parade is Friday. If you had to work out there, you better have a car, because if you get off and at three, you gonna have to wait until that parade is over with, or you got to walk it. How I got stuck out there, that’s what happened. I forgot about the parade as I’m working, and when I came and I’m sitting out waiting on the bus, ain’t no bus, no bus.

Somebody come by in the car and noticed that I was still sitting there, I was sitting there waiting and I was sittinh there. They stopped and ask me was I





waiting on the bus and I told them and say you know if the gator something coming? Ain’t no bus running. I say oh lord, I ask them please take me to the mall where I have a place to sit down inside and keep the rain. Of course I don’t wanna be sitting out there in thundering and lightning. They took me to the mall and I went inside and sit down, sit there till three, ‘cause I wasn’t calling no cab, pay no cab fare.

	M:	Getting back to as a kid, you walking around, where did the kids play around here?

	L:	Well, we only had one playground, T.B. McPherson Center out on Third Street. That’s where we would go, and if we didn’t go out there, we’d play out here; play in the streets. We come in the afternoon and if we wanna play stick ball, if you got a mop or broom nearby we gonna cut it [Laughter] and you’d be looking for your broom and we would’ve cut that middle of it [Laughter], use it as a bat; stick ball. You will never know what happened to that broom or mop, but we know. We get right out there in that street and play that ball.

	M:	What else did you play?



	L:	Well, we played hop-scotch, shoot marbles, we rolled tires, rode on our tricycles, spinning wheel, get in the tire get you roll us down in the tire. We did a lot of— play football.

	M:	You said earlier you plaited grasses sometimes?



	L:	Yeah we would pull up grass, and take it and wash the sand out of it and take out a comb and brush and take the Vaseline or whatever grease we had and take it and grease it and part it and we plait it, braid it, and make little paper dresses





and put on it. You see that, we have our paper dolls. We didn’t have no dolls, real dolls, we made our dolls. Until we’ll take the broom and take it and put my daddy hat on top of the broom handle, and walk it as if it would be our husband [Laughter]. Yeah, yeah. Yes sir. It was a lot.

	M:	It sounds like on Sunday, church was sort of an all day thing, I mean you were—



	L:	Yeah, we go to church in the afternoon, we have morning service, come home and eat and go back. Afternoon we go turn out at three o’clock. We come home and we go back for BYPU at seven-thirty, eight o’clock service at church. Usually at eight, eight-thirty you come home, but we played in between. If the church had to visit another church, that’s what—on Saturday we played they wanna go to down, downtown, we would play games and things with our friends.

	M:	Which church did you go to?



	L:	Mount Varaba Primitive Baptist Church. It’s on Waldo Road up in Goldman Taft.

	M:	Do you remember which churches there were in the neighborhood?



	L:	Well my church was down in the Seaboard down over there, it’s out on the Waldo Road. That’s Mount Varaba Primitive Baptist Church. When they sold the property, the church bought the land and built a new church because that one was old and falling apart. They sold it as a lot and you bought the property and built the church. When they expanded, they built a larger one since they built that and I went to church. She did grow up Primitive Baptist church; it’s still there. The other church over there on Eight Avenue, it was one, two—Mount Varaba down on the Seaboard, that was on the other side of Main Street, on the east side.





There’s—they had a church up there and up there—Mount Olive Primitive Baptist Church this side east, but it was up there by Alachua General Hospital. After they built—when they got Dale’s Drug Store, on Fourth Avenue, there was a lot of houses up in there and it was sitting right there in the nits. A small church Mount Olive, so they built a new church out east Gainesville, but it was only—when after I left they built this new church right there off of Southwest Fifth Avenue. Oh that seems to be most of it. It’s still right around here but they closed it down and then built—Southeast—built this church, buy a larger lot to build a larger church. The old one is still down there. Yes.

	M:	What about businesses in the neighborhood, do you remember?



	L:	It was a lot of those businesses. We had—let me see. It was Johnny Johnson, that little white building right up there. It’s closed down now, the middle of the church, storefront church. That was a little beer saloon. Right there, there was one up there with the house on that corner, was a beer saloon. There was one up there on the left-hand side before you get to the corner, there was a beer saloon. Like that beer saloon over there, but they tore it down. You going on down it was still two, three, four, five, six. It’s six and the cleaners, yes and the cleaners are still there. Then there’s, let me see, there was Webb Grocery Store that was on the corner there. Sunlight Grocery store was up in Dale Quarters.

William Grocery store was on the corner of Olive’s and Sixth Street, and it was on the corner of Arlison’s Street because the railroad—the train came it wasn’t Sixth Street wasn’t through there. It was—they had put Sixth Street through and then about half the Grocery store. Then it was—what was that man name? The





store was on the corner of Third and Depot. He closed them down. I think what happened, they went out of business. The building is still there. That’s all, until they started coming in and opening up these mini stores. Arabs, they open these 7-Eleven and they got them all over.

	M:	There are a lot of those. I mean, growing up were there parts of the neighborhood—were you expected to avoid the places that sold alcohol and that kind of thing, or could you pretty much walk anywhere when you were growing up?

	L:	Well I’m tell you, we could walk. It wasn’t dangerous, we wasn’t afraid, it wasn’t danger. We walked it. People looked out for you. We can go and buy our soda, we go and buy our soda. They didn’t bother us. We come on out, we didn’t hang in if we wanted to buy our Coke or soda we go. They give us a soda, pay for it and come on out. You sold cookies we go and buy our cookies. Candy we went and bought us candy, come on out. Yeah, they look out for the children. You couldn’t buy no alcohol, they wasn’t gonna sell you no alcohol. Unh-uh, but they sell you a soda.

	M:	So that’s how they took care of it? L:	Uh-huh.

	M:	Did you ever go up to Fifth Avenue for things like—North Fifth Avenue—for things like the theatre?—

	L:	That’s where I would go, that was my hang out. M:	Oh yeah?





	L:	I didn’t hang over here ‘cause everybody knew everybody children over this side, so when we had our thing we had to go on over there. If they have I, they may come on this side. The kids on that side come over here.

	M:	[Laughter] That’s how it worked. Exchange, I guess. Where’d you go on 5th Avenue? Do you remember?

	L:	Well we went every place on 5th Avenue. Every place we could go in and we went in it. We know where every order was and have us a good time, we went.

	M:	Any places you remember particularly?



	L:	Well, we had Walter Boltman. They had Walter Boltman Barbecue on Fifth Avenue. They sold beer. Then they sold ice cream, hamburgers, and it’s always there, too. They had Fred. Fred Alexander had his restaurant. Sarah McKnight and Charles McKnight, they had their restaurant Sarah’s Grill. Sold beer, sold sandwiches, and dinners of course. Then Wigwam, he had this club, called it Wigwam’s.

	M:	What was the name of the—? L:	Wigwam.

	M:	That’s his name?



	L:	Yeah. Then they had Zeekharge, Poorel. They had Marie’s Place, the house is there, but they all dead, right next to Duncan’s Funeral Home, they on Fifth Avenue. Safety Cab there on Fifth Avenue; it was a Black cab. And they had Mom’ Kitchen restaurant was on Fifth Avenue. Wabash Hall, it’s still there on Fifth Avenue, that’s where they had all the dances before they start going out to the Cotton Club. That’s the first place that’s where they had to go, that’s where





they had the dances. Wabash Hall upstairs, that building is still there on Fifth Avenue.

	M:	When you say “they,” you mean adults?



	L:	The building is still there, but the ones that own it, they all gone, they all dead. The house, they lived there right across the street from it, but they owned it that building. They had a grocery store was downstairs—what was that name? The Deals, they had the grocery store and they rented the upstairs where they had all of the dances and club where you rented. You have your club dance and things, club, and then McPherson would rent it and book bands and have dances. We had a dance practically once every month a band was coming in to play until the war broke out. Was war two. Gas went rationed so-

	M:	Slowed things down I guess, huh? L:	Uh?

	M:	Slowed things down a bit—



	L:	Yeah. Everything went on ration so our class was—I was in [19]40—class of [19]45. [19]45, [19]46, it was in [19]45. That’s when that war ended.

	M:	Interesting time. What do you remember from Lincoln at that time? L:	Lincoln High School?

	M:	Yeah. Do you remember the courses you took or any of your teachers?



L:  Yeah. I took algebra, English. I took biology, history, geography, mathematics. I took home economics; had the library. I had algebra. What’s the next thing after algebra? Geometry and then what’s after geometry? I had—my first grade I had [inaudible 57:04] remember that?





	M:	I think I know what you’re talking about.



	L:	Yep. I had a—I remember reading the Witch—Mother Hubbard had so many children, I remember—oh it’s been so long—but I remember having them books, I had to go and get them. We didn’t have the books to bring home we had to leave them at the school. They would issue ‘em out to you when you get there. Make time for each subject you had, ‘cause you didn’t change classes until you got into the ninth grade, I think it was, and then that’s when you had to change classes. By seventh through the eighth, you stayed in one class and they issue you books what you took. From first to sixth, we was downstairs at Lincoln High, from first grade to sixth. High school we would go upstairs and we’d stop a seventh grade. End of seventh we go upstairs and you go up there until you graduate, twelfth, seventh through twelfth.

	M:	I see. Do you remember any teachers in particular?



	L:	Yep. I remember Ms. Daphne Duval taught me math, geometry, algebra, and Ms. White taught me Civics. Mr. McFerguson taught me Civics after Ms. White died. Ms. Strong taught me English. Mr. Charles taught me...Mr. Charles taught me— what he taught me? What the thing that he taught me was? He was my teacher. Mr. Franklin Jones, biology. He taught me science, biology. Ms. Jones, Penny Jones, she was my library. Ms. Strong, she taught me English, Ms. Neely taught me civics. Ms. Mabel Strong, she was my home economics teacher. Ms.

Rivers, what was she taught? She taught me—I think Ms. Rivers she taught me—what she taught me? I think it was geography. Ms. Lynn taught me third grade. Ms. Henley taught me in the first grade. Ms.—what was it? What’s that





lady name? She taught me fourth grade—Ms. Emma William taught me sixth grade and—who taught me the fifth grade?—Oh, Ms.—.what was that lady name?—Ms. Davis, Ms. Davis. [inaudible 1:01:59] She taught me fifth grade. Ms. Destiny Brown taught me music, taught us music.

	M:	Did you know these teachers well?



	L:	Uh-huh. Yep, raised up in each school they taught. Yes I did. My homeroom teacher was Duvall just like my mother, second mother. Of course we spent more time with her. She was our sponsor. When we graduated she was our sponsor in the tenth grade. She was a very nice lady. A. Quinn Jones, he didn’t play. That man didn’t play. He was—when he tell you he meant it. You didn’t get too wrong, you didn’t get too old that he would whip you. That man had a belt and I don’t care how much you pat your back, when he hit you that first time, you gon’ feel it. If you had our back padded with anything, he gonna know it. He’ll tell you, Oh, you got your back pat. We’ll see what you can do, see if you can stand there. That man come down on you [Laughter], oh boy you gonna feel it, baby.

Oh no you got your back patted. We used to pad our backs with newspaper because we know we done did something we gonna have to go into the office and we’d go in the girls lavatory and pat our backs. Man made us come outta there! [inaudible 1:04:45]. Oh he [Laughter]—but the day we graduated we went to him and we thanked him and after I got grown, every time I would come home visit, I would go out and stop by and visit my school and check my old teachers out. There were—all that was there. I could just picture my sponsor and she was a lovely person, beautiful personality and heart.





	M:	It seems like Lincoln occupied a really important place in the community.



	L:	Yeah, it did, because that was the only school we had. I’m really sorry they integrated and closed it down. I really am because a lot of history went down, ‘cause I understand they threw out a lot of most important thing from way back years, years and years. I wish they should’ve saved, but I understand they throw those things away. Because my record, my daddy took me and registered me in the school, everything was on record then, all of us, my brothers and sisters went to that school, and my mother went to that school. She was on record there, my mother. My daddy he didn’t go to school ‘cause he wasn’t raised here, wasn’t born here. You can call [inaudible 1:07:08], but my mother and her brother and sister they went to that school. The fellow that taught me science and biology with my mother classmate, and he used to give me a hard time, he said the reason I’m so hard on you, Mamie, because your mother she was smart and that’s reason I put my feet down, that’s why I’m hard on you ‘cause I know you can do it. I said, I’m not my mother. I’m not my mother [Laughter]. I thank them all and my later days I know what they was trying to tell me ‘cause I see that everything they told me I’m witness with my own eyes I see it and I go back and I thank them. My principal, A. Quinn, he had two daughters and one boy and they was all teachers, but they were all identical like that man. They were strict, they was good teachers, they didn’t play. They don’t play that. I think one of the girls, the bigger girl and the baby boy—the baby girl, she lives in Jacksonville, and the younger boy he lives in Ocala. I don’t know whether the oldest girl living or not.

Their house was right across from the school and one day I didn’t go to that





because I wasn’t here I was up in Milton, Florida with my son when they had that—A. Quinn Jones—

	M:	Oh, yeah.



	L:	His wife, Ms. Frederica Jones, she was a pianist, she played the piano. She was a teacher, too. They didn’t have no children, by his first wife it was the children, but they—

	M:	I see, I see. Was there anything in particular you remember about some of the businesses you mentioned on Fifth Avenue? Anything about Fred’s Grill?

	L:	Well Mr. Fred was—he had a restaurant he was the cook. He had a nice business, but I didn’t go in there to eat too many times. I would go in and buy sandwiches ocassionally but he mostly was a big mason. He mostly did a lot of traveling, was a big man in the mason. His wife mostly took care of that restaurant while he was away, but—I didn’t know too much of him, but I know some of his family. I know his sisters, I knew his brothers and—I know they was from Arkvilla where—the clock at the 34th street, the mall?

	M:	Okay.



	L:	I think 34th and Archer Road, the mall? What that man name on that? M:	Oh—

	L:	He died.



	M:	You mean the Butler Plaza?



L:  Butler, Butler. See Mr. Butler bought some of that property was—Fred Alexander granddaddy owned a lot of the property out there. See in Butler, Butler come but the Alexander’s owned a lot of that property, and Fred Alexander still got some





property out there, still got property out there. If I’m not mistaken, after they built this new last thing they built, I think they had to sell that property. His brother, Curtis Alexander’s wife after she died—and Curtis died first— Monroe, she died in nursing home. Her daughter had to sell the property because Butler and them was buying it, wanted to buy it. That’s where they built this new part of it, brought that whole part out when you come out behind the mall. The street comes up from Newberry, from Archer to Newberry road. Well down there is where he owned a lot of that property, he had to sell that. I know his brother Curtis and Ma Monroe, Curtis’ wife, because they owned a restaurant on Sixth Street, right down before you get to the city police, right there by that Belford Church. That’s where Monroe’s restaurant was. They closed it down, she got sick ‘cause she was up in the heat. She was the only Black that was up in Dell Quarters at the restaurant, upstairs room in the house—in the restaurant down. She started that business selling barbecue chicken, barbecue coon, barbecue possum, barbecue—she sold—what’s it called? Oh my goodness—It got the horns on the head, what is it? Deer! Barbecue Deer she sold barbecue deer. Yeah and she sold it. Barbecue pig feet. Ma Monroe, yes sir, and made good of it! Branched out and had her a terrific—a name for herself. People come down from the north, people done travel [inaudible 1:16:10] to just spread the news cominh down looking for Ma Monroe. You tell them and they show you a card when somebody done bend down and eat their plate and they went back and recommend you. If you go down there, look her up, sure did. This just—Chestnut and his daddy, his—young Chestnut daddy, his granddaddy had one son, and his name was





Charles, Charles Chestnut, Jr. This is Charles Chestnut III, the one over there now. Well his daddy had two. He had a daughter named Gloria. The Duncan’s that run Duncan’s funeral home, lil’ Dunc, married her. Then he had Charles III, okay. Charles is married to his wife—she was the congressman.

	M:	Oh—



	L:	Sydney.



	M:	Cynthia.



	L:	Cynthia. That’s Charles III wife, Cynthia. Now by [inaudible 1:18:10] I’m a little relative of some in that family; my mother’s side. My mother’s—brother was married to Charles III grandmother was my aunt’s sister, my mother’s brother wife sister. The other [inaudible 1:19:14] that was taking the interview, what his name?

	M:	Mr. Demps, you mean?



	L:	No, the other guy you was talking ‘bout. M:	I don’t remember who I was—

	L:	You said—



	M:	Oh, oh Joel Buchanan, you mean? L:	Yeah, Buchanan

	M:	Mr. Buchanan, okay.



	L:	Buchanan mother, Buchanan grandmother, which is his mother’s mother, was my mother’s aunt. My mother’s daddy and his grandmother sisters and brothers, that was my grandmother—my mother’s. His grandmother was my mother’s aunt.

	M:	Interesting. How did you learn so much of the family history?





	L:	My mother told me.



	M:	She just sat down with you and talked to you?



	L:	Yeah, uh-huh. See, my mother’s father was Whitaker and his sister was Buchanan mother’s mother. Her maiden name was Whitaker.

	M:	I see.



	L:	I’m related to the Charleses, the Herse—long time now. My step-granddaddy, which was my grandmother’s husband after she and my mother’s father divorce, she got married to Will Charles. He had three brothers. My grandmother and him had two children, a girl and a boy. Rivera Charles, my mother’s brother and her sister, his sister was my mother’s sister. They had the same mother but not the same father. My mama tell you Will Charles raised her, didn’t have a talk much about her daddy, ‘cause we know who her daddy is. Her daddy lives in Plant City and we went to visit him. When my mother passed he came to her funeral and her grandfather on her side, he was a big strawberry—he owned a big strawberry farm down in Plant City, we eat strawberries. Now he had a large family down there, he had a lot of children, George Whitaker. Well known, he had this delta of strawberries, clean strawberries. Other than that, my mother step- daddy had three brothers and one of his nephew was named B.F. Charles, he was the editor for Gainesville Sun; Charles. He taught English at Lincoln High.

His daddy was the mail carrier. Now, the Hayes’s, Matt Hayes he was the mail carries, off of Fifth Avenue. He lived right across from T.B. McPherson. Murray’s, Francis Murray, he was a mail carrier. He passed for White and he passed for Black. You couldn’t tell it ‘cause instead of going to Lincoln High School, he’s





going to Gainesville High School, he get tired of Gainesville High, he come back to Lincoln High School. Well we couldn’t go to Gainesville High School, but they be going and they be walking with them and laugh and talk and we be well we know—but we know something you don’t know. Now, when they be waving at us and we waving at Marvin and Francis Murray and we go to downtown we went to the ten cent store, be sit at the counter drinking coffee, eating sandwich. They wouldn’t serve us, we couldn’t go, but they was in there. I said, “Well, oh well, you serving us anyway, but you don’t know it.” They get ready to go, they had to go to the White to get their hair done, go to the White beauty parlor. That’s where they went and got their hair done. You couldn’t tell them, they just like White.

They blonde hair, curly, but their daddy was one of the mail carriers here. It’s just—we had Chestnut, we had DeBose, Dr. DeBose, we had dentist, [inaudible 1:26:10], that’s the one that doctor—our first dentist, the dentist that pull teeth, until—what his name—that came here along with Dr. Banks dentist that’s over so on Sixth Street. He died, Dr. Stafford had his medical doctor’s office over across the street by Bethel Church, Dr. Stafford, and he died. Dr. Banks, his office over there by the police station on Sixteenth, and now, none of them. Dr. Ayers, he left here because they wouldn’t let no Black doctor go to Gainesville High School. He left and after he left they let Dr. Banks in, and Dr. Ayers went to St. Petersburg and he stayed down there until he got this big position up in New York. That’s where he went to, New York. Yeah. He couldn’t go to the hospital, and if he had a patient that had to go to the hospital, he had to work with some White doctor and turn the patient over to the White doctor, ‘cause they’re going in the hospital.





Well he couldn’t go. My oldest son, Dr. Thomas, I was going to Dr. Ayers until I got into my sixth month, and he turned me over to Dr. Thomas, ‘cause I went to the hospital and he couldn’t go. He left right after then, he left and went to St.

Petersburg and Dr. Banks came and they let him in. He was the only one they let in.

M:   Why’d they let him in?



	L:	He was the one keeping the others from coming in, understand? Keeping the others from coming in. Ms. Foxx—she has a nursery. You have to tell them that Foxx nursery is down there?

	M:	I don’t know the name, but—



	L:	They had—I’m just gonna call it nursery. It’s right next door to—right across from Cedar Grove Baptist church, and a team of them—yeah sixteen children. She kept all of those children in line; all of them finished college.

	M:	Wow.



	L:	She lived, I think she lived—she was 99 when she died, and she was up working in her nursery, and she fell and fractured her hip and she never did get up from that. She was working going to the nursery every day until she had that fall and she wasn’t able. I think that’s what really—‘cause she couldn’t get up out of that bed to take care of her business like she was used to doing. She thought she could get up but she couldn’t, she never did get up, never did come back. I think that was, she was 99 when she died. Ms. Foxx. Henry Grant, he was just—Henry Grant, he had a barber shop.

	M:	Here in town?





	L:	Uh-huh.



	M:	Here in town?



	L:	Right round the corner there. M:	Huh?

	L:	Right in the corner going there. He cut the hair down there. M:	I see.

	L:	My father he was the first Black [inaudible 1:31:50] cleaners. He had a cleaners to my father. He opened the cleaners up in— [19]47? In [19]47 yeah. The first Black cleaners that was open down here. He would go—he had a contract with Camp Blanding. All the guys’ll come in and be examined and the civilian clothes and leave, he had a car and he’d go and get the clothes, clean them, and take them back up there. I don’t know what they did with them, but he had a contract with them and he stayed there and sold it and went to New York, unbeknownst to my mother.

	M:	I see. You said in the neighborhood there was a crate factory?



	L:	It wasn’t in the neighborhood, but it was over there off of Main Street. M:	Okay.

	L:	Yeah, Atkins Manufacturing. That was the company that made boxes with cheese, cheese boxes and bean basket, crate basket, put string beans in, we made them crates. We made them in the boxes with the white box where they put corn in the boxes. Long boxes. We made them and boxes the government, they used to do cheese. They used to ship the cheese in boxes, wooden boxes. When we get the contract, we have to make the government—that was during





the war. We have a certain length of time to get them so that manufacturing stayed down there until they—‘til it caught on fire. It burned down. They had one in Micanopy and he had one in Gulf hammer, a box manufacturer. I worked until I left and I went north and—-

	M:	Is that the job you had out of high school? Is that where you went, to the crate factory or what?

	L:	I was working there when I was going to school. M:	Okay.

	L:	At night. We worked nights. Yeah, I would work from eleven to seven and get home, get ready.

	M:	Then go to school? L:	Uh-huh.

	M:	That’s hard work.



	L:	Yeah, I had to be done, it had to be done. You know how much we was making?



We was getting’ thirty dollars. Take out tax social security and we got twenty- eight dollars.

	M:	Per night?



	L:	That’s what we would get after they take out tax and social security. M:	What did you use the money for at high school?

	L:	Uh?



	M:	What did you do with the money in high school? L:	My mother was still living.

	M:	Paid for things around the house?





	L:	Yeah, uh-huh.



	M:	Did you ever get to use it for fun, for—? L:	Buy my clothes, shoes.

	M:	Oh, yeah.



	L:	When my mother wasn’t able ‘cause the others she had to take care of—more than one I had to help her with. Still in school helping with them, keep them in school.

	M:	Yeah.



	L:	Yep. When my mother died, [inaudible 1:37:09] my mother was forty-six when she died. She died in [19]48 and I had two sisters and a brother younger than me that still in school. Try to keep them in school, and they did all right.

	M:	I am interested in when you moved north, but first just talking about—what was the relationship with UF, the University of Florida? What do you remember in terms of—I don’t know any influence it had on the neighborhood here or?

L:  Well, before I left, I was working at the University—I mean Atkins Manufacturing and when I left Atkins I went to Tampa, I didn’t go to New York right then, I went to Tampa.

M:   Oh okay, okay.



	L:	I stayed in Tampa about three years. When I went up there, my father took sick. I went to help my step-mother with—she was in a home. After he passed, I brought his body home, ‘cause he didn’t wanna be buried up there. I brought him home and buried him out there by the plot with my mother and I went back because I had a good job and I was doing all right with myself. I went back





‘cause I knew that I wasn’t gonna get that kinda pay down here. They don’t pay no cook no money. I was a pastry cook. I was making good money and about—I was working for a Jewish family, but I was unionized. I was working for the hospital administrator of Montefiore Hospital in New York, and I was hired and I joined the union. Every time the hospital went on a strike, I had to strike, I had to sit down. If I sit down, I got paid, and if they got a raise I got a raise, although I wasn’t over there in the hospital, but I was hired by the hospital. I was working in the home. I did good and my daddy died and I brought his body home. To get back to the university, I didn’t care too much for it because simple reason they didn’t treat us—prejudice towards us, so I didn’t wanna work, I didn’t wanna go. I don’t care about them today. I don’t care that much. I don’t look for them. My children, like my son that came in, he graduated from the University of Florida.

My nephew, Randall, he graduated from the University of Florida. I got two nieces, Tanya and Pam; they graduated from the University of Florida and who else? My nephew, my brother Henry’s son boy ex-wife, well next she graduated from the University of Florida. I got a lot of family that went to Florida, come out of Florida. I just—and they going, are you gonna be?, are you going?” and say, Never. Now they say—I call them I say I don’t know what happened, I say what happened to your Gators? I don’t wanna hear. They hang up on me. You ain’t got to call and rub it in on us [Laughter]. When you was you talking nobody could talk then, y’all rub it in and I come around, what happened to your Gators [Laughter]? My youngest son, he retired from the Navy, he lives up in Milton, Florida, out of Cocoa?





	L:	Oh, okay.



	M:	Pensacola.



	L:	He come and he’s a Gator fan [Laughter]. I call him, I don’t wanna hear it, I don’t wanna hear it, I know what you calling. You gonna listen to this here? What’s going on with you and your Gators? I know it, I know it, I know it! I don’t wanna hear it, I don’t feel good, my head [Laughter]. If you don’t listen it gonna be worse. I say I’m let you go, I just wanna let you know. I ain’t gonna let you forget I’m call you back tomorrow after church. You better answer that phone [Laughter]. Yeah.

	M:	Did you run into many of the students from UF back then or did they pretty much stay over there and not—?

	L:	They stayed over there. M:	Didn’t see them much?

	L:	The only time I’d see them was when they coming to pick up the clothes and I’m still there. Other than that—

	M:	What was it like—I mean especially during segregation—what was it like to go downtown, like when would you go downtown?

	L:	We would go downtown on Fridays and Saturdays. M:	Okay.

	L:	Saturday was the main day. Everybody would come out from the country, come into town and do their shopping on Saturday, come in. Some be making it on Fridays. Now when we got paid on Saturdays and that’s when we got paid we go downtown and visit the William Furniture Store. He would cash our checks for us





and we would around and go in the shop and if we see anything we like, I may buy me a pair of shoes and go in the—what was the name of the store I loved to go? I used to buy a pair, two pairs and they give you a pair. Pick-n-save. What’s the name of that thrift store? I can’t think of if that’s the store we would go and I would buy my school shoes from there. What shop? When I get tired I go home. My mother she would go down and do food shopping and go down to Robertson Market, down on First Avenue downtown. We call that Union Street. Then they changed it First Avenue now, it was Union Street. That’s where we go, that’s where the Black would go. Union Street. Somebody you know, you go down there you gonna see them down there, ‘cause they gonna come in or somebody relatives of yours from the country. You go down there you gonna see six of them buying. That’s where we had to go and do our food shopping and buy clothes and things. Take care of our business, ‘cause you had to go down there and you pay your light bill and gas bill, because it was downtown, the police station was downtown. It wasn’t where it is now ‘cause they haven’t built it, you had to go down there.

	M:	I see, so bills and everything, that was just—so you had to go downtown for that. L:	Yeah.

	M:	I see.



	L:	Where you go and pay your tax, you had to pay your gas and your light bill down there, yeah. We wasn’t on gas, but we had electricity. Then the rent man, the landlord, he put the city water, got tired of messing with them pumps. ‘cause when the water wear out, he got to dig and try to find water again in the pipe, so





he ran the city water, which we was glad then, and we had to go pay the city to pay for the water bill and the light bill, yeah.

	M:	I was also wondering if you remembered much about Sarah McKnight’s place? L:	Yep. Sarah McKnight, was practically raised up with her. Her parents had three girls and one boy, and they was born down here, raised down here. In fact they

Grandmother home was right up there in Mowry. Sarah children and grandchildren, and great-grand live in the house, now. Well Sarah and Charles, she got married to Charles McKnight, which was Elliott McKnight, Charles daddy. He owned a pool room on Fifth Avenue, and he got sick and gave it to Charles, the pool room and Charles turned it into a restaurant, started selling hamburgers and dinners and sell candy and stuff; potato chips, sodas. Then he added a part on the back—on the side, where he sold draft beer, but the front part was an old train coach, that he made it into the sammich, in the restaurant. You come from the back, you come in the back to go into the beer, it was cut off from the front, you come in the front where they serve the food. That’s how they came into that business and he was always a cook. He cooked at Reitz Union on the campus, that’s before they built the new Reitz Union. The old original Reitz Union was a little small building like one of the—it’s just a small building they had where they did the cooking and they serve it in the dining room where they students would go and eat on the campus.

	M:	I see.



	L:	Then he was calling a service and he went in the army—in the Navy, and Sarah, she ran the business. Ma Monroe, she ran the business, her husband was even





in the army. He was a cook also and he cooked at P.K. Young, courtesy of examiner there. He was a cook. All of them retired from the service, retired. Sarah and Charles, after Mr. McKnight—after Mr. McFerguson gave up booking the bands and dances, she and Charles start booking dances out to the Cotton Club, and they started running the Cotton Club. They started that on a weekend.

	M:	I see. You said the Cotton Club—or you remember going to the Cotton Club anyway?

	L:	Uh-huh I was there to every dance, uh-huh. M:	What do you remember about it?

	L:	I remember I had my—I remember my club, when he had our Annual Affairs our dance will be at that club every year I November, always had it in November. We always had the number one affairs everybody want an invitation we running trying to give them what they—we never could have enough invitation. It’s too small for that you can’t just want everybody to come down for a half hour to dance. I remember dancing when Duke Ellington came and Count Basie, Buddy Johnson, and his sister Elle Johnson. B.B. King, many times he came to the Cotton Club, B.B. King. John East and Otis Redding—Broke Benny, all them big [inaudible 1:53:37] came to the Cotton Club.

	M:	Those are some big names, that’s—



	L:	Big Band, that in the [19]40s, during the war, and the [19]50s. M:	Did you have—?

	L:		[inaudible 1:53:54] ration, [inaudible 1:53:56] ration, put it on ration they had it, couldn’t get them down here. They pull their music, every month was a dance. It





was there it was Palatka, Jacksonville at the Two-Spot. The Two-Spot in Jacksonville had three floors; one, two, and three. They had three dances, a band playing on each floor, and it’d be sold out because see—Camp Blanding Palatka, the Navy base. All the Jacksonville Navy base, all of them, we had to—it be sold out! When you go, three bands—big known bands—playing. It was some fun back then. Jacksonville, Palatka, I went to Daytona to dance, Ocala. Ocala had a big club that book bands. Tampa—

	M:	Do you have any idea what it was called, the one in Ocala? L:	Yeah.

	M:	What was it called? L:	Huh?

	M:	What was it called? L:	Ocala, it had a club.

	M:	What was the name of the club?



	L:	I can’t think of it, it was on Second Avenue. M:	Okay. Second Avenue.

	L:	Yeah, well known, dancing in Saint Petersburg. M:	That’s a lot of traveling.

	L:	Yeah, we would drive down there. If there some big bands there, we would go. Don’t care what we—we gonna get on and take that day off. We going to that dance. Yes sir. Yeah drive down to that dance.

	M:	I’ve heard people mention Wigwam, a number of times, I don’t remember if— L:	He came from Tampa.





	M:	Tampa, okay.



	L:	He had a club in a bar in Tampa, on Central Avenue, and he came up here and he opened a club and a bar—no he couldn’t ‘cause Gainesville was a drive county, you couldn’t get license for liquor. If you sold liquor, you had to sell it under cover. You buy liquor, you had to go down to Marion County, or you go down to Williston—wet-county. In order to get a liquor license—liquor, you had to go to Palatka, or you had to go to Williston, or you go to Marion County. They had a—Marion County when you leave out of Alachua County, 441, it’s a package store on 441 right when you leaving out of—just before you get to— what’s the name of that place? When you get to Orange Lake—it’s a bar on the right hand and a package store, and a restaurant going down to Ocala. You leave out of Anthony, Florida, and it’s right ‘round the curb before you get to— what’s the name of that place? Orange Lake—it’s before you get to Orange Lake. What’s the name of that place? That’s where you had to go in there to buy your liquor, or you go to Williston, or you go to High Springs Get liquor, ‘cause you couldn’t get it here. Now you can get your liquor license ‘cause it’s a wet county now, before that any liquor you sold here was against the law and they wait to see, and you get busted, you going to jail.

	M:	That’s fair enough, fair enough. I mean I can keep going, I don’t know if you wanted to keep going or would you rather continue another day, or I know if—

	L:	Yeah, we’ll come back. M:	Wanna come back?

	L:	Uh-huh.





	M:	Okay. Well, maybe this is a good time to close for now, so thank you very much. L:	Uh-huh, you can come back and I’m [inaudible 1:59:49] [Laughter].

	M:	No, I understand. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Toni-Lee Maitland, October 21, 2013 Audit-edited by:	Anna Jimenez, August 4, 2014

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019