AAHP 619; Thomas; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 619 Ebony Thomas 9-12-2018 Interviewed by Samantha Crisanti on September 12, 2018

78 minutes | 46 pages



Abstract: In this interview, interviewer Samantha Crisanti sits down with Ebony Elizabeth Thomas, an African American scholar-activist originally from Detroit, Michigan. She attended Bates Academy for the Gifted and Talented in Detroit, which she credits for giving her the foundation for a successful life. Originally, she attended Courtis Elementary School, but transferred when a teacher informed her parents of her exceptional academic abilities. She went on to attend Renaissance High School, a magnet school in Detroit, before heading to Florida A&M University to earn a higher education. Although she enjoyed academics, an attempted sexual assault during her college years left her psychologically distraught, especially after being ostracized by school administrators and psychologists she appealed to. The event, however, caused her to advocate for the Black Feminist Movement, insisting that the women’s movement should not be restricted to White feminists. After FAMU, she worked as a public school teacher in Detroit for six years before going back to college to obtain a master’s degree from Wayne State and a doctorate from Michigan. Thomas goes on to recount some of her family history, including her father’s background as an alcoholic Vietnam Veteran suffering from debilitating psychological trauma. She also shares that her great- grandfather was lynched in 1919 in Alabama, a detail she discovered while browsing Ancestry.com. Today, Dr. Thomas studies children’s literature, with a focus on the depiction of children of color in twenty-first century literature.



Keywords: [Detroit, Great Migration, HBCU, Florida A&M, FAMU, feminism, Red Summer, scholar, activist, literature, English, children’s books]



AAHP 619

Interviewee: Ebony Thomas Interviewer: Samantha Crisanti Date: September 12, 2018



	C:	So hello everyone, my name is Samantha Crisanti. Today is September 12th.



	T:	Hi. I’m Ebony Elizabeth Thomas, and my name is E-B-O-N-Y, E-L-I-Z-A-B-E-T-H, T-H-O-M-A-S.

C:  Okay. Thank you. And today, as we’re starting, I’d like to just call first ask you just some things about your upbringing and growing up. So could you tell us a little bit about where you grew up?

	T:	Sure. I grew up in Detroit, Michigan. I was born in August of 1977. My mother was a Detroiter. She was born and raised in Detroit, Michigan. My father was— at the time, so my bio-dad [laughter] was from Birmingham, Alabama. And it’s an open secret, he was married at the time. My mom was a young girl, and it was a classic story. It was one of those seventies stories, and so I was the result of that. On my second birthday, my mom married the man I consider my dad. So my mom’s name is Susan Brown Caldwell. But my dad’s name was Larry Thomas. So that was the man who raised me, and he was born in Rosedale, Mississippi and went up to St. Louis when was six. So I was raised by a northerner and a southerner. Definitely a daughter and a granddaughter of the Great Migration north.

	C:	Okay. And then, could you tell us a little bit about your educational background. So what was it like going to school in Detroit, and then your educational career after that?





	T:	I felt like I was a bubble. I was in a bubble during the decline of Detroit. Detroit had one of the most notable declines. Let me talk to you instead. Detroit had one of the most notable declines of the twentieth century in the United States. So within that decline, there were bubbles of success, bubbles of opportunities. So I attend a school that really put me on the trajectory that I am on today, called Bates Academy for the Gifted and Talented. And how I came to that school is because I began reading quite early. My grandmother, who was actually born here in Florida, she was born in St. Petersburg, Florida, was my caretaker when I was very young. So union jobs also enabled me to be tenured in Ivy League, so anyway. Sort of, very leading with where I’m going. None of the women in my family worked, so I grew up in this bubble. So late twentieth century bubble, where you have moms and grandmothers whose husbands had some of the best union jobs in the country. So they weren’t college educated, but either they were— my father worked for the post office, my grandfather worked for the school district, and then my grandmother’s sister’s husband worked for the police force. And so each of those families, they have good union jobs, and the jobs were such that women didn’t have to work. And so I grew up more like people did maybe in the [19]50s and [19]60s, where my mom and grandmother were at home. I grew up next door to my grandmother. So anyway, that was what led me to being— I read at age two, and I was reading novels by age four, because I was the oldest in my generation, so I was around all these adults. And there was just intense parental and grandparental— this extended family was just there. So I relate more to older African American women when they talk about how things





were in the mid-twentieth century. And most of my girlfriends, their moms worked, more of them were single moms, certain stands or whatnot. And so they were latchkey kids. But my people weren’t home. So anyway, I came to school reading, and reading Judy Blume. So I started kindergarten, and I was helping the other kids with homework because I was bored. I went to Courtis Elementary, and my kindergarten teacher, Mrs. Earl, was wonderful. Came to my parents and said, “Something is wrong.” And they were like, “What?” And they said, “She shouldn’t be reading, like she’s helping the other little kids with their alphabet, and she’s reading everything I give her.” So they tried a number of solutions, which in retrospect were pretty traumatic. So first, they tested my IQ, and they said, “Well she has genius-level IQ, it’s 156.” And so my mother started crying.

She was like, “[inaudible 4:33]”, you know the psychiatrist, this is the early [19]80s, they don’t know what the hell their job is. They were just, “Oh, she’s never gonna live a normal life, and she’s not gonna be able to socialize.” And so then my parents were struggling for solutions. So again, my dad was a mailman, he’s a letter carrier. My mom stays at home, so they’re working-class Black folk. And they’re just like, “We don’t know what to do.” So they tried to put me first in Detroit public— no sorry. Private school. They tried a private school option, but there was no scholarship. Money available. And I’m glad in retrospect. I didn’t go because my high school boyfriend went to the school I would’ve gone to, and that was a different kettle of fish. Wonderful education, but racialization was — and I think I got the better end of the stick. It was what it was in the [19]80s, it was really difficult for him to be at the school. Then they tried to double promote me,





and the first grade teacher messed that up because when I finished my work before the other first graders, she kept saying, “See, look at this first grader. If this kindergartener can do it, why can’t you?” And so that certainly made playground time and recess miserable. So thank God someone in the late [19]70s decided that they were gonna pull together a talented and gifted program, a TAG program, in Detroit public schools. And my mom’s good friend, who worked for the Board of Education, remember I said my grandfather worked for the Board of Education as a building engineer, that’s how my parents— my mom, and then my step-father who I don’t think of as my step-father, he raised me and I have his last name. They met at Roosevelt Warehouse in Detroit. And so anyway, a friend of theirs said, “Well have you heard about Bates Academy?” And that is the school my sisters and I attended. And so where they were teaching between one and three grade levels ahead. And so that’s how I ended up on this trajectory. So I went from Bates to Renaissance High School, which was the top magnet school in Detroit, and from there I went to FAMU here in Florida over in Tallahassee.

	C:	Nice. So why FAMU and Tallahassee? T:	Oh boy. So that’s another story.

	C:	[Inaudible 6:49]



	T:	[Laughter] I thought that I was gonna go to University of Michigan after I had a wonderful experience at a summer program there. So of course they were trying to keep as many of us in-state, especially in— you know, I’m a late generation X-





er. So especially in the early [19]90s, they were trying to keep a lot of us in-state. But there was a lot of cultural pressure against that. First of all, a different world at the time was really promoting Black colleges. So that was number one. And then number two, my aunt had gone to University of Michigan, and had a horrible experience with— she was in the Honors College, which is called Residential College there, and she was isolated socially, and called the n-word frequent times. And so she couldn’t take it. So by the end of her— she dropped out after sophomore year and finished up at a regional college of U of M in Dearborn, Michigan. So I had different world. I have auntie Mandy’s experience. That’s my baby— my mother’s baby sister. And then I was in a program called Generation of Promise that I was telling Susan about, you know my host here, [inaudible 7:57] because we both grew up in Detroit, or metro-Detroit. And Generation of Promise was formed by the new Detroit coalition to try to get the city kids and the suburban kids together. At the time, Detroit was the most racially segregated metropolitan area in the nation. You had a really contentious, well, one side calls it a riot, and the other side calls it a rebellion. You know, that’s now receiving some attention that happened fifty years ago, ten years before I was born. So the idea of Generation of Promise was to try to get the generation X’ers to not hate each other as much as the baby boomers did up there. So we ended up meeting with kids from all over the metro, across ethic groups, et cetera. The third reason and final reason I didn’t go to U of M was because of my experiences in Generation of Promise. I remember sitting around talking about PSAT scores, some of the kids — the White suburban kids saying basically, “Yeah, it’ll be easy





for you to get into U of M because of affirmative action.” I was like, “F you, screw you, I’m going to a Black college so I don’t have that.” So those were the three reasons, so I looked at Black colleges, my first choice was Spelman, Spelman didn’t give me any money. And FAMU, we had Dr. Frederick S. Humphries, who is hugely famous among Black Floridians, who went around the country and recruited us. Actively recruited Black kids from all over the U.S. and abroad. And he was determined in the [19]90s that Florida A&M University was gonna have the largest number of national achievement scholars in the country, and he took his hat around to the major U.S. corporations, Fortune 500 and 1000 corporations, and he funded our college education. So that’s why I am a SUS grad. I came down to FAMU, a good four years.

	C:	Yeah. I was gonna ask you what was your experience at FAMU?



	T:	I liked it. One of the things I think I can bring up is narrative is just how culturally different— Isabel Wilkerson wrote a wonderful book called the Warmth of Other Suns, which is about— she won all kinds of awards for it. The epic story of the Great Migration north. My grandmother is a Floridian, and just in those two generations, I think culturally, at least in the [19]90s, maybe it’s different now, I just saw how not a Floridian I was. Which is why I went back to Detroit. And it wasn’t so much race, because race is an American problem, it was gender.

Women in the South go through a lot more— I feel like Southern women are strong folk, but I just couldn’t get over some of the patriarchal attitudes [laughter] in and around Tallahassee, at least, and I guess I didn’t give the [inaudible 10:48] by Georgia, so I shouldn’t have. But yeah, but other than that, I had an amazing





college experience. I will say that I had some of the best college professors in the country. We were taught by actual professors, not grad students.

	C:	Yeah, which is nice.



	T:	Yeah it was really, really nice. Had a good time, made a lot of good friends, got a chance to see most of the state of Florida. So Gainesville’s like— the only other metro I haven’t been to is I haven’t been to the southern tip, so Fort Lauderdale, Miami. I’ve been all over the rest of the state. But I certainly know all my college friends are Floridians.

	C:	That’s a whole different environment.



	T:	Yeah, yeah, yeah. I feel like this is more familiar than maybe Miami would be. I feel like Miami will feel different when I get there. But yeah, so that was my undergraduate experience. Yeah, some of the patriarchal attitudes, some of the experiences that I had, especially freshman year. Being a little naïve with boys on campus and it was a different sort of way of being gendered. Because again, it was right— I grew up in all-Black Detroit, went to— well, not all Black, but majority Black Detroit, went to majority Black schools, and then I came to an HBCU, thinking that, “Hey, we’re all Black, it’s gonna be the same.” But I learned about reach and I learned about class. I learned about ethnicity and nationality. And it was quite an eye-opening experience, so I learned about the limits of racial solidarities when it comes to other kinds of differences. I will just say that. But excellent education, and really set me on the path I’m on today.





	C:	Okay, awesome. I can relate with you because I grew up up north actually, and then I moved down to Florida, and my mom’s Hispanic, and she was like, “I have never felt this way about being a woman, let alone a minority woman in the South.”

	T:	[Laughter] Where did you grow up in the North? C:	Connecticut.

	T:	Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. Especially the East Coast, because even the mid-West is a little more conservative than the East Coast. You know I’ve lived in Philly for the past six years, and I would say having been all on the eastern seaboard, it’s more— not more European, I won’t say that, but that would be an even bigger golf, because I was just like, “Why should I be married by the time I finish college?” Like, I’m going to finish and I’m going to be twenty-one. I don’t want to marry any of these boys, especially after I went through dating, attempted assault, i wasn’t going to speak about that—

	C:	Whatever you’d like to share.



	T:	Attempted— yeah, but attempted sexual assault my freshman year. His father was a campus administrator. Well, maybe I will just say this. He was a campus administrator and defended his bud. Like basically, it was my fault. And it was again— I don’t want to throw the entire South under the bus, because Detroit is still bad, and the world is bad for women. It is what it is for us as women, but I just was like– and then I made up, because my dad was so furious— you know, my dad raised me. So every time I say my dad, that’s Larry Thomas. My bio-dad





who lived longer than he did. But I didn’t want my dad after the attempted assault to come and get me, and kill someone. And his brothers literally some of them [inaudible 14:11] drugs, and they weren’t going to play. And some of the hood violence that people talk about, like, “Black people are pathological.” Some of it is extrajudicial violence, which is American pathology— from lynching to you know, you don’t think you’re gonna get justice in the criminal justice system because it’s biased. So if someone assaults your daughter, you’ll come and you’ll take care of it yourself, you don’t care if you’re going to prison. So I just knew I had to — so I swallowed it and did not tell anybody the truth of what happened for ten years, until my sister’s best friend was assaulted when she in undergrad. And then it came out ten years later. And my dad went to his grave, passed away of a heart attack when I was twenty, so between my junior and senior year at FAMU. Came north, had one conversation with him, he woke up the next morning to a heart attack and he died. And I was twenty-one. But I never told dad, and you know what? To this day, I’m forty-one now, I’m glad I didn’t tell him. I’m glad he never knew. Because my uncle was in Atlanta, I just knew the mindset. Because I felt like I wasn’t touched by that patriarchal mindset in Detroit, but I just knew how they were. I just knew. I already had an uncle on my dad’s side living, who got into a gun altercation with a man who beat his sister, my auntie’s boyfriend, and he was living with a bullet. So ever since I was little, it’s like I’m not gonna be the cause of somebody dying. So I swallowed it, and became super religious when I was down here at FAMU. That’s also a big thing [laughter] in Florida. I guess, north of is it I-4?





	C:	Mm-hm.



	T:	Yeah, Florida north of I-4. It’s much more religious. So I fell deep into Pentecostal Evangelical religion for the last three years at FAM. And that was how I got through. Made some good friends. They cooked, I mean I got some meat on my bones.

	C:	[Laughter]



	T:	But yeah, that’s how I coped with it. And I never sought anything. Oh, one more thing about that incident. Again, patriarchal attitudes. The campus psychologist, who I went with to talk about what happened, treated me really weirdly when I told him. And then told his daughter not to room with me, because she was scheduled to room with me, because she was scheduled to room with me, and she told me what her dad did. And she said, “Nope, he’s wrong, blah blah blah.” And she was a Christian like I was a Christian, and so after that, I didn’t seek treatment for my depression for ten years. Yeah, it was nineteen, and then twenty-nine. So those were the kinds of things, again, patriarchy, patriarchy, patriarchy. And yeah, that was one thing. I mean, I think that’s why I’ve never married and ended up having kids, I just felt I wanted to find a guy, especially an attractive Black man, who wasn’t patriarchal, even deep down, and that’s hard. So anyway.

	C:	Yeah, I’m taking a class right now. It’s called the “trouble between us,” it’s about how Black and White women write about each other, and one discussion we had was the seven types of Black men that are available bachelors.





	T:	[Laughter] I love it! Oh my god! I was like, “You gotta email that to me!” Because people are like, why are so many Black women single? It’s like, no it’s not because we’re ugly or told we’re undesirable, some of it is by choice. A lot of single professional, never-married Black women. It’s like our choice, that’s number one, yeah, and then, it was just like— I just, I would go out on all these dates and just even now, it’s like, I have to make myself small and my mom would try to— my mom’s been married three times, so even after dad died, she remarried and she was married for almost a decade, and then he died too, so she’s been widowed twice. And she’s like, “Ebony, you don’t have to show off how smart you are. You don’t have to—“ so it’s like sort of this diminishing thing. But, I couldn’t be a Black feminist, like that was a big thing. My mother would always say— and I’m sure you’ve heard this from other Black respondents and in your class— “feminism is for White women.” Feminism is not for White women if we’re getting— look at our rate of assault, domestic violence, I’m not saying we’re perfect, but gee, or being killed. Like, being killed just because of patriarchal envy. And so I just, I don’t know, I get racism is the overarching problem that’s been ever with us since before the founding of the nation, but I think basically being single is my patriarchal protest. I love men, I adore them, but I’m cisgender and heterosexual. I do. I’m most attracted to men. I won’t live with a man who— I just think early on, dealing with some of the patriarchal attitudes— my first man I ever loved, I met at FAMU, and he basically wouldn’t be with me, wouldn’t marry me because I finished FAM and he didn’t. He flunked out. And he told me, it would always be a thing between us. So I just feel like I’ve





been so successful academically, everyone would be like, “What’s wrong? Why don’t you have a man?” And I was just like, “I’m just” — that part of it just frustrates me beyond measure.

	C:	Well I think that question is problematic in itself. Like why does your success have to correlate with the fact that you have a man, you know?

	T:	You’re right, I’m a woman. Now I’m talking it out, it had a lot— those very early years— wonderful, I loved the hospitality, I loved the food, I loved everything else, and I finally had named what frustrated me and why I went back up north. Although it’s bad up there too. I just couldn’t deal with southern male patriarchies, slash southern Black guy patriarchy, or southern Black— I just, no. And it was just definitely pervasive in the culture. You know my grandmother, that’s one reason she fled north. Not because of White oppression, although that was a factor. Her father was one of the most prosperous businessmen in St. Petersburg in the [19]30s and [19]40s, so she grew up. My mom always said, well her mom, she said, “Your grandmother didn’t remember the Great Depression because her father drove packers, and he did very well within the segregated St. Petersburg.” She fled north, her and her sisters fled north— ooh goodness, this is just getting to me, because of their father’s patriarchy. He was deeply religious, wouldn’t let them perm their hair, wouldn’t let them— you know, oppress their hair, because they didn’t have perms then. Made my grandma drop out of school so she’s …

	C:	[Laughter]





	T:	You don’t need no man, she just. And so, I feel like that’s sort of something we can’t talk about, because racism’s so pervasive in this country, but nobody is really listening to Black women about sort of the extreme, gendered violence, and sexism that we face too. And I’m glad you’re taking that class. I mean, people are talking about it now, finally, in the 2010s, but there was no way to talk about it in the [19]90s, you were just bitter, or you were lesbian, or you were just

— any kind of slander they could throw at you. Although, I don’t care if people think I’m a lesbian, they can think what they want, because I’m not gonna throw my lesbian sisters under the bus because of that. I know I like men, but I wish that they were better and less privileged human beings.

	C:	Right, well there you go.



	T:	So that was my FAMU [laughter.]



	C:	No thank you. I think I really want to hear about the rest of your educational background, or your educational experience. So you talk about this emphasis on patriarchal dominance in the South, but when you went to grad school, did you feel an extreme difference in the new setting?

	T:	I think because of where I went, my master’s degree is from Wayne State, and then my doctorate is from Michigan. I think that I was less exposed to men.

Because what happens is— especially Black men, first of all, Black men tend to fall out of a — this is a blanket statement— straight or cisgender heterosexual Black men tend to fall out of the educational system before— huge numbers before you do. I mean I’m just thinking anecdotally, most of the guys I went to





FAMU with, either they took — none of them finished in four years, I mean, in my small circle, this is not certainly— I can’t speak about the broader stats. And I just remember them feeling angrier and angrier, and my mom, who is never gonna be a feminist, and always is gonna take the guy’s side, she’s like, “Yeah, they’re becoming aware of being a Black man in society, and so they’re starting to get whatever.” But then at Michigan and Wayne State, I was an English major, so there were like, no guys. It was like all White women and me, and maybe one other Black girl. But most times, it’d be me and a bunch of White women in the class. So racially that was my experience. I feel like I had a really good education. Wayne State is an unsung hero among— it’s one of those urban campuses you get up north where you have people from all walks of life. And the campus itself was diverse, but English major really wasn’t. And then same with Michigan. I went to Michigan in 2005 after being laid off from Detroit public schools. So what I didn’t say is, after I finished FAMU, I became a Detroit public schools teacher for six years, but then Detroit again, was in the middle of its free fall, and they laid off thousands of teachers in the very early [20]00s through [19]05, so after getting laid off and recalled multiple times, I decided I was going to try my luck in graduate school and maybe get a terminal degree so I could become a district administrator. And I ended up becoming a professor. It was a wonderful last four years of that five year program. The first year was terrible, because I was trying to adjust to Michigan, the University of Michigan’s racism.

But I wouldn’t say— I think Ann Arbor is like a little feminist enclave. I felt gender was less salient there, but race was — you know, I was the only Black student in





my program for the first three years. My first year was really hard, but I persisted, because of having my aunt’s narrative. I was determined I was going to persist, because she didn’t get— her degree from the Ann Arbor campus, I was going to stick it to them, and get my degree. And then because I was older, I was twenty- eight when I started the program. A decade post high school, and I also had— I was very well connected in Detroit and joined a church up in Ann Arbor. And I’m gonna drink a little.

	C:	Yeah, please.



	T:	It’s my own fault for being addicted to coffee, I have two coffees. C:	I am also addicted to coffee. It happens.

	T:	And so, yeah. So what I did was I really made sure my life wasn’t just campus. I had a full spiritual life. That was the first time I went to therapy, because Michigan had really good healthcare for its graduate students. Unfortunately, Penn, you know that’s a different conversation. But I’m not able to do for my [inaudible 25:39.] Like we could go to thirty or thirty-five sessions, so fifty two weeks. Or you could go to and talk to a therapist of your choosing for just a co-pay every two weeks. So my depression got treated. And then I started going to Al-Anon, an adult children of alcoholics, because my dad who raised me died of alcohol— his heart attack was induced from his alcoholism. So yeah. Those Ann Arbor years probably were the best of my life. The last four years I was in my doctoral program, I just— it was— after that first year and once I got my teaching position on campus, TA, you know, [inaudible 26:23] grad student instructor position.





Those were some good years. Good friends, dates, yeah, it was just really good, my late twenties and very early thirties.

	C:	Alright.



	T:	Yeah. And I graduated in 2010, so eight years ago and counting. C:	You’re killing the game.

	T:	Oh yeah. [Laughter]



	C:	[Laughter] I am a fan of your work, to preface anything, but I really do want to know more about your family history before I proceed into that. And so you mentioned your mom’s not a feminist, she won’t claim that title, so—

	T:	Yeah. Even if we call her and I put her on speakerphone, she will tell you.



	C:	Right, so did your feminism then stem from your grandmother? Because you mentioned she was that—

	T:	I lost her in 2012. I lost grandma died on August 13, 2012, so I had just moved to Penn. Because I got the job. She wasn’t sure about the job, but yep. Definitely.

She really always encouraged me, she just was so strong to move to a city a thousand miles away from home— more than a thousand miles away from home, so she’d only ever been in St. Petersburg, Florida, or Central— you know, they go visit relatives— Central Florida. And then she went to Michigan when she was seventeen years old, so 1947, and lived with her aunt who was already up there, aunt Elizabeth, and she never returned. So, she worked as a domestic, and she got married. That dude wasn’t right, she divorced him, cussed him out, divorced





him, and raised my mom and her brother on her own until she met the man I know as my grandfather. She put herself through cosmetology school through her work, best housekeeper, best cook you ever met. When they call the greatest generation, man, we’ll never— gosh— I’m just getting choked up because Aretha Franklin just died, and I always associated her music and that narrative, that generation that’s gone, that Great Migration generation, I just— they’re gone, and that was my grandma and her friends. I mean I don’t want to put us down, we’re living through a different time [inaudible 28:48], but just that substance, those are some strong women. And growing up next door to my grandma really helped. I think it kept me and my sisters more stable than if we had been on our own. Our mom is a good mom, I talk to her every day, I’ll talk to her this evening, but she’s different than our mom. My mom’s softer, because she didn’t have a dad until she was like fourteen. You know, because her birth father kind of, just, left, [inaudible 29:18] you know after my grandma divorced him, she didn’t see him again until he died. Saw him in the coffin, she was like, “I don’t know that man.” My mom is searching for something that I’ve always had. Because of her search, I really always felt very validated, and maybe a little arrogant for a Black girl. This narrative of Black women and men is that we have no fathers, I had three. So my biological dad was in my life early on, left because Larry Thomas, my dad who raised me, told him to basically get on, she didn’t like him because he was arrogant. There was a class tension there. Daddy grew up poor, and my birth father, my biological dad, was part of the Black upper-middle class. Educated.

One of his daughters is a multimillionaire. I’m in touch with all of them now. So





there was class tension, so he went away. And then my step-father was in my life for the time because mom was just — so she’s on her search. I understand her now in my forties I think, and have come to peace with it. My little sisters haven’t. I have two younger sisters.

	C:	I was gonna ask you about siblings, yeah.



	T:	Yeah, I have two younger sisters. I’m the eldest, and they’re mom and dad’s biological kids. But mom admits that my little sisters say that I was a daddy’s girl, which is why I keep talking about my dad. And my sisters, because he died when they were still underage, especially my baby sister, [inaudible 30:40], which is why I have the Leo tattoo on my left shoulder.

	C:	Leo! Oh are you a Leo too? T:	I’m a Capricorn.

	C:	Oh I love it.



	T:	And I’m a Capricorn rising. Their stories are interesting, because their perception of our childhoods is different than mine is. But anyway, going back to grandma, anytime that dad— see, when he would drink, he was a quiet man. Vietnam vet. He was trying to drink away those memories, he did two tours over in the service, ended up in a mental hospital, and I mean, whenever I would mention this country— oh Jesus, don’t get me started. That’s not the topic of this interview, but the Vietnam War—

	C:	It can always be the topic of this interview.





	T:	But what people went through, it was always southern, poor, boys of color, but also poor White boys back then. They’re killing a whole generation of people. If you wanna trace some of the current pathologies in this country, like the drug epidemics, et cetera et cetera, I think Vietnam and if only Kennedy had been able to— Jesus, anyway, so I lost my dad. We were close, I felt like he was the only person who understood me. But I lost my dad before I was born. I always say that, ten years before I was born, because whatever he saw over there, really got parts of it. One of my White guy friends in grad school, we shared an experience. A lot of those vets, I guess because of the landmines, you could not walk around the house barefoot. And we grew up different states, different — his dad was a Vietnam vet who was drinking himself— in the process of drinking himself to death. Mine had already drank himself to death. And we just talked about these moments and just really loving these dads who wanted to love us and be available, but who were scarred from an experience. And then of course, the ways in which that world was positioned within the nation, didn’t allow them to even have some of the catharsis that World War II veterans had. I would even say, I mean, currently the Iraq and Afghanistan vets are positioned differently in this [inaudible 32:46]— because, no matter how liberal or radical people are, they’re not spitting on people, or— so anyway. So that was dad. He would disappear. So if he went on a vendor, he would just not come home. And so he did that from the time my mom married him all the way up until I was about eight. Then he got sober. Well, really dry. And he was dry from the time I was eight until I was almost sixteen. And I think that’s the difference in how me and Danielle





remember him drinking, stop drinking. Danielle is my middle sister. She is thirty- eight. Lorie is my baby sister. She’s a famous tattoo artist, but kind of ah! And I think it’s because of how confusing childhood was for her. There were some things I understood about our family, but just because of birth order, and that Danielle understood, she’s thirty-eight, that Lorie doesn’t remember. So when dad started drinking again after his mother died, and he drank himself to death in five years. So he was sober from [19]85 to [19]93. Didn’t drink. Went and got a degree. Then he drank from [19]93 to [19]98. By that time, I’m a junior in high school, I was just like, you know, I mean, I loved him but I wasn’t going to talk to him. I had a different position vis-à-vis, but when my baby sister, she’s like eight, nine, she’s like, “What the hell is this?” Like she had a parent and then all of a sudden— so anyway. I said all that to say because you asked me about my grandmother. My grandparents lived next door. So and our houses had connecting gates, because— and my grandma, she was like a lot of migrants North. She brought a little bit of the South with her, so she had beautiful gardens, she had bought an abandoned lot, fenced it in. My grandfather, I think he won the Irish sweepstakes and got like 100,000 dollars or something. It was like a family legend in the [19]70s. So my grandparents had money. My grandmother really never was— she was a Black woman who was born in 1934. I’m thinking about it. Except for those years, that decade in the [19]50s between marriages, she was never poor. So grandma could always make it better. And so maybe she enabled some things, because mom—but I just think on balance, I mean there was no physical abuse. Dad was just— he was there, except for when he was





drinking, he wasn’t there. And if mom was reacting to that or if she was nuts, we’d go next door and be with my grandma. And grandma and granddaddy were there. And granddaddy grew up in Detroit. His father was lynched in 1919, [inaudible 35:25] Alabama, just found that out through Ancestry.com. Yeah. Red summer, they were under counting unfortunately. I can’t find him in Bryan Stevenson’s—

	C:	I was gonna ask you about that.



	T:	Yeah, I can’t find his record that he was— yeah. That’s an interesting story too.



Gosh, this feels so windy. I’m just running my mouth.



	C:	No it’s amazing. Please.



	T:	So granddaddy, he had no memory of the South. He was the baby of three boys.



And the story was this. And we had to get the story from another relative because he and his brothers wouldn’t talk about it. So my great grandfather, David Gray, was trying to get together a store— a little country store. This is outside of Selma. They were in Orville, Alabama, or something like that. He was a coal miner. His dad was a coal miner before, and I don’t know if they were miners in slavery. Like I’m doing some of that family genealogy now, like I’m wondering, they’re in that Alabama area. And apparently, he intervened in a domestic violence situation between a White man and a White woman. Ended up putting his hands on that White man, and so, [inaudible 36:38]. It wasn’t even a formal lynching where they strung him up, they just shot him to death. And so then, after that, he had— I guess your family had to get out. Either I don’t know if





it was economic or they felt compelled to leave Dallas County, Alabama. And so they came up to Detroit in 19— so this happened in 1919, they said. Her father, great-grandmother Amanda’s father, got up to Detroit, where they had some family. And she drank herself to death too. I’m sure the trauma of that was just was it was. And so grandma told me this in whispers throughout my childhood.

We were never to mention it to granddaddy. And so he didn’t have any memory of the South. He grew up in Detroit, when Detroit — they were at the very leading edge of the Great Migration. So he grew up in Detroit in the [19]20 and [19]30s.

So that’s why I said it’s weird, because on one side of that family, I had both a parent and a grandparent, who were Southern, and a parent and a grandparent who were Northern. And so it was a very— you know, which is why I think I’m starting to think more about the Great Migration in my upcoming work, because of how it shapes us. So that was the family configuration. Grandma’s house was really a haven. I miss her terribly.

	C:	I’m sorry that she passed.



	T:	Oh, it’s alright. She was eighty-two years old. And also did a lot of living.



	C:	When you were younger, did she talk a lot about growing up in the South, about her experience with segregation, racism?

	T:	She didn’t really say much about racism. She used to say that Florida wasn’t as bad as Mississippi and Alabama, that was the narrative. But, she used to also told us— this is to quote her— “I never heard [inaudible 38:23] no Rosewood.” So Rosewood, Florida. So if there were violent incidents— and I talked to my





mom about that— she said, “Ebony, you don’t understand.” She said, “Before your generation,” she said, “Even when I was a child. Grown folks didn’t let children sit under them while they were talking.” So that was like a big thing. I don’t know if that is Southern or if that’s Black, or if that’s both. Where you couldn’t be looking in grown folks’ mouth while they were talking. And I’m sure my great-grandparents were aware of Rosewood, and all their brothers and sisters. My family is from [inaudible 38:57] down here. It’s Black American. I’m in the Black American stem of it. We’ve had Caribbean, West Indian, and Cuban, and Puerto Rican in our marriage. So Dancil, that name, anybody with that last name, has— that’s one of my relatives. D-a-n-c-i-l. And Arenas. So one of my distant cousins is [inaudible 39:18]. And you look at him, he looks Black, but he’s Black Cuban. His great-grandmother was my great-grandfather’s niece, I think something like that. So it’s a big Florida family. And all of them did pretty well. We came down from slavery in Coastal Georgia, I found out. And my grandmother’s side was in slavery— great-grandmother, Suzies. So this is my grandmother’s mother, was enslaved somewhere in the Central Florida region. That family is a little bit more difficult to research. That branch, because it’s Mulatto. From all indications, either her father or her grandfather was White. And the name changed— I just keep looking and I’m like [groans] [laughter.] So I need to come back down here at some point and do my mom’s side of the family’s genealogy. Between here and maybe Georgia Southern University or some of the— I just feel like Florida, South Georgia, Northern Florida, seem to be kind of a contiguous region in the late nineteenth century— mid to late nineteenth century,





after Florida became a state. I mean we weren’t here from Spanish coloniza— I don’t think we were. But I don’t know much about grandmother’s mother’s side of the family. Grandmother’s father’s side of the family, because of that unusual last name. I’ve been able to trace that up till almost the late 1700s. Even they have, yeah, the records from slave owners. Yeah. I don’t know what kind of farming they did here, and I think it’s why my mom’s family— because I’ve been thinking about how Black America today came to be. And one of the things that somebody told me once, when I was teaching in Ann Arbor, when I was fussing about the kids not wanting anything. I still had a lot of deficit ideologies. And he said, “What did your father do? And your mother do?” And he made me say to him basically where my family came from, and nobody in my maternal family that I could discover at all ever showed crop or did anything, or had any— were in that peonage system. One of my enslaved ancestors, actually, he and his wife and kids were owned by —“owned”— [inaudible 41:51] [laughter], but by one White family who basically migrated— you can see this family. So my grandmother’s maiden name was Dancil. But then you can trace it up through the Dekle family. D-e-k-l-e. And that’s a very prominent southern Georgian name.

And I don’t know what kind of farming they were doing, but it was small farming. So anyway, they weren’t part of the second Middle Passage, what Black history— you know, the settler, you were selling people down to the cotton fields of Alabama and Mississippi and Texas. I think that’s the difference. My maternal line, they didn’t have that particular trauma. They had the trauma of enslavement and being Black, but something about what they were doing during and then





immediately after slavery, like that’s why my great-grandfather— he was born in the 1880s, was able to own land, nobody burned him out down in Florida. He owned stores, and I’m not saying Jim Crow was wonderful, but he was able to strike, and he went to Church and was in fellowship as a pastor and preacher [inaudible 45:55] with White folks in the Tampa Bay area. And he’d sell food to them— so it was a very different— whatever he was able to broker with them, he had money. Our ranch became very working-class as we went up to Detroit, but I mean gosh, I mean we have doctors, lawyers, one of my cousins lives in Norway, one lives in Alaska. And my mother always attributes it— “Look at God,” but beyond God, you know, swear to God. And I want to write about that one day. I think my first book, “The Dark Fantastic,” will be out. We’ll talk about that I guess, [inaudible 43:32.] But I really want to think about how this is all on a continuum as Bryan Stevenson said. So enslavement was such a complex institution woven into the fabric of the nation, but I definitely believe that even beyond being maybe mixed race, where there’s been a lot of attention to that, that side of the family’s not as mixed race as some of the [inaudible 43:59] descendants, but I think whatever they were doing, like one of my great- grandfathers raised horses and one was — they were able to seek out some kind of Black artisanal class or middle-class existence, and even become prosperous, because nobody actually became. And they have this narrative, like we come from a good family. Like nobody has kids that are— but then on my dad’s side, that Mississippi side. God. So that contrast and having both of those narratives. I think there was a difference. So when grandma said it wasn’t as bad in Florida,





it’s not to minimize how horrifically racist Florida was, but perhaps you wouldn’t just be burned or shot if you dared own land here.

	S:	This is Elaine Sponholtz asking this question. Before I have to go unfortunately, I interviewed Johnnetta Cole, who was a director of the African Art Museum for the Smithsonian, and she has deep roots in Florida as well. And her family established the first Black-owned insurance company, and all kinds of other things. Have you researched any crossover between Black families?

	T:	No, I haven’t. And [inaudible 45:18] also— was Johnnetta Cole the president of Spelman, former president of Spelman, I think—

	S:	She was, but her great-great-great-great-grandmother was Anna Kingsley, and [inaudible 45:29] Kingsley, who we know a lot about here in Florida. So—

	T:	I haven’t done the research yet. I’m at the very beginning, I have a sabbatical coming up, and I told Susan, and she said she had a little funding. I’m gonna come back down and do my research on children [inaudible 45:46], and also personally and selfishly, I want to find out why that is. That’s a narrative I’ve heard more than once, I know you have to go. Also Tananarive Due, who is a pioneering Black horror and fantasy writer, she’s a correspondent of mine, and so we follow each other and chat on Twitter. She’s from a very prominent Florida, Miami, family I believe. Did you ever—

	S:	Dr. Ortiz has interviewed both of the two— her parents I suppose. I’ll let you finish, [inaudible 46:16]





	T:	Thank you so much. I really enjoyed [inaudible 46:19]. Yeah, I’ve become fascinated. There was a class called the History of Black Florida at FAMU, and you know I didn’t take it. You know I was eighteen, nineteen, I was just like, “I don’t care about [inaudible 46:32].” But now I’m just like, “Yeah.” So that narrative

— from talking all this out, I’ve become super intrigued. I’m gonna spend more time down here, I think it’s time. And because I’m lucky enough to have it relate to what I’m doing, and the kinds of things I talk about.

	C:	Well I think that’s a great segway to go into how did you start the path that you’re on now? Why children’s literature, why the focus on specifically children of color and how they’re portrayed in twenty-first century literature?

	T:	Yeah. Well first I learned to read so young. Yeah, I learned to read when I was two, four. Then, always was intrigued with children’s literature, but then when you’re a teen you wanna grow up. But then I remember falling back into one of my favorite children’s books right after dad died as catharsis. So he passed away in [19]98. So right before that, I start rereading my favorite children’s books again, Anne of Green Gables. But then the internet was a thing, all of a sudden, so like in [19]96, [19]97. And there were list serves where you could chat with people via email, because we were — I’m old [laughter.] And so you could chat with people about Anne of Green Gables. So then from there, I read all the Lucy Maud Montgomery books, and I ended up going to a tea at the Grand Floridian Hotel on one spring break, and met up with a bunch of Anne fans. I had a tea party at FAMU for a bunch of my sister friends who were into Anne of Green Gables. Then the magic happened. So I was poised towards still doing children’s





literature. I started teaching fifth grade in Detroit in 1999, so graduated from FAMU August [19]99, came up to Detroit, started teaching fifth grade [inaudible 48:33], so Bates Academy hired me. That’s another story. So then, I—

	C:	And this is the gifted school, right?



T:   Yeah the gifted school, yep. So I’m teaching fifth grade, everybody was reading at or above grade level, and so I was teaching— my first year teaching. Then I’ll never forget it. It was sometime during the winter, probably February 2000.

Somebody left a copy of the Chamber of — brand new copy of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets on the door jam. And none of the kids would claim the book. So one of my friends whimsically, in later years from the fandom said, “Yeah when time travel is invented, you’re gonna need to go back, close the [inaudible 49:16] and put that book there, so you could discover it.” So anyway, one of my kids — I’m sorry— I read it over— yeah, it was right before winter break. We have a winter break in Detroit because it’s so cold up there. And I read it, and I was so intrigued. Went to Borders back then, [inaudible 49:35], bought the other two that were out at the time, and just fell down this rabbit hole. And then when the Goblet of Fire came out in July 2000, oh my God, I joined Harry Potter [inaudible 49:48] Yahoo group, that same week, and I became one of the founders of Harry Potter fandom. And I was really active there from 2000 to 2006. And so I entered that rabbit hole at the turn of the millennium, and then when I came out, I was already poised toward— I had already taught two children’s literature classes at Wayne State. I was poised to become who I am today. I was a doctoral student, so yeah, that’s how I fell down the rabbit hole.





Always loved children’s lit, Anne of Green Gables was my gateway drug, and then Harry Potter was truly my first fandom and oh my god, I love those books, that world, everything.

	C:	Okay. And then I have read one of your earlier publications. It was a joint publication, it was in 2008. And in that publication, you talked about an activity you did in a class, the privilege walk.

	T:	Yes! [Laughter]



	C:	Which was really interesting to me, because here at UF, we have this program called Gatorship. And you apply to be a part of it, and it’s a social justice retreat, a whole weekend, and they’re basically trying to break down these barriers that are created within the classroom, within our life here at UF, because this is a PWI, and very notably.

	T:	Yeah. Now you’re one of the top ten universities in the country too, so lots of privilege.

	C:	Yeah, lots of privilege. And so, it’s bringing these conversations into light, and one of the activities we did was this privilege walk.

	T:	Oh interesting, so they’re still doing it ten years later! C:	Right.

	T:	Yeah, it was so new back then, and I was wondering— I wonder if my Penn students today— I’m glad for whoever turned up the air conditioning, better put my sweater back on.





	C:	Please, please.



	T:	Yeah, the privilege walk. I’m just so grateful to whoever came up with it, because it felt so cutting-edge. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So did you want to know how we stumbled upon it?

	C:	Well my question really was — I’m sorry, I cut—



	T:	No, no, no, no, you’re fine, you’re fine, no, no, you’re good, you’re good. I like to talk, so.

	C:	It’s okay. I’m happy. So I have a lot of friends who did this program, particularly students of color, who were critical of using this as a method of breaking down barriers, because they argue why should our circumstance need to be displayed in order for those with privilege to see their own privilege.

	T:	I think that is a critique I have of it in retrospect, because I think first of all, I always tell my millennial and generation z students— I don’t know which one you consider yourself—

	C:	I’m 1997, so I think millennial.



	T:	On the cusp, yeah. So I told my millennial students, I said, “Listen honey. We weren’t as woke as you were ten years ago,” it was revolutionary to say in 1990—no, in 2008, well this activity was in 2006, so, this was twelve years ago— “privilege exists. Here are the privileges.” Or giving people Peggy McIntosh’s famous white privilege, unpacking the invisible knapsack article. That was





considered so like, oh my gosh, groundbreaking. But today, it’s sort of [inaudible 53:03] because everybody’s woke. I don’t know, something happened—

	C:	Woke.



	T:	Yeah, woke. Like, in the middle of the 2000s, I really think that Ferguson, the two weeks in Ferguson, changed the country. I know everybody said Trayvon Martin’s death was the catalyst, but I even think with Trayvon and with Jordan Davis, both of whom I think they were both here in Florida, weren’t they?

	C:	Um-hm.



	T:	That’s the thing about Florida. It’s like, I keep telling people it’s a southern state.



	At least, above I-4. C:	Definitely, definitely.

	T:	And so like I always tell them, because they’re like, “Florida?” Yes. And so, I just think that after Ferguson, like in 2014, August 2014, the country changed, and I think we really haven’t come to terms with it. I feel like the people who are one way double down that, and we saw Trump happen two years later. But then I think, we now have a bunch of woke folk, who are problematically woke maybe, but woke. And so I can kinda see where Black students would feel super conspicuous doing the privilege walk, because when I would do it with my students, I was — as you read in the article— I was at the very back of the room, because I was in Ann Arbor, Michigan, doing that privilege walk, and I grew up in Detroit. And one of the questions is all about did you grow up in a dangerous neighborhood, but I just spent the past hour telling you about my family. And we





weren’t that bad — I mean, [inaudible 54:27] compared to— you know, I’ve never been poor, I’ve never experienced any break in food, clothing, shelter, et cetera in my forty-one years. So, yeah, I just think that the privilege walk— I think back then it was a good idea at the time, but I think— and it did what it needed to do in that space, but I think that social justice interventions are contextual and bound by space-time. So not everything is gonna work in every situation or every environment, and what worked ten, fifteen years ago is not necessarily what people need today. So yeah, I think that’s that a good critique of it.

	C:	And then in your evolution of your research of your understandings of this workings within the classroom, you talk about how you went from an environment of teaching urban students to these wealthier, you quoted “rapidly integrating districts.” And how your teacher talk varied between that. And so can you elaborate on that? Can you talk about your experience with that? [Inaudible 55:38].

	T:	Yeah, that was really interesting, because I think in Detroit, I had one set of challenges. So I was young, and learning how to teach, so that was the first challenge. And then after I kinda got my [inaudible 55:59] under me, I had to leave — I taught in Ann Arbor my first year as a doctoral student at Michigan. I taught a 60 percent FTE position, which means that I taught three classes most times. As a high school teacher you teach five. So the year that you read about in the 2008 article was the twenty— I’m sorry, 2005-2006 school year. And I was teaching in Ann Arbor that year. And yeah, that was the first time I had to talk to an audience every day, [inaudible 56:33] that was maybe 60 percent White, 40





percent POC, and within that 40 percent, you had a lot of diversity. You had some Black kids who were the children of a multi-generational factory workers and/or campus workers there at the University of Michigan. You’d have immigrant Black kids from Africa and/or the Caribbean, whose parents were from there who were the children of professors. You’d have Indian kids, you’d have— whose parents were doctors and professors. So this super diversity that you had within the classroom was just so— I mean, it was so profound that if you talked about one set of things to one group of kids, you were offending and/or ignoring, or not serving the needs of others. So the Black students, they would like it when I would code-switch. At least the Black American students in that first group I described. But then that would make me lose face with my White boys. My White girls were more okay with it. But my White boys would say, “Okay you sound ignorant.” So how do you serve the needs of everybody in that classroom? And I’m not sure that I ever came up with the answer, because then Michigan wanted me to come on campus full-time, because my chairs were concerned— they were right. It’s difficult to do two things at once well, which as a doctoral student, I needed to leave the district and to learn how to be a professor to be apprenticed to teach undergrads at the time. And so I left in [20]06, and so I haven’t been in the classroom in twelve years and counting. The K-12 classroom. But yeah, that was a huge challenge, and I’m not sure that many people are able to sort of bridge those gaps. I don’t think that even Obama was able to sell everybody in his audience as we saw with the Trump backlash. It’s almost impossible to serve all the communicative needs of kids in such a diverse classroom at once. Then





you can’t just leave it there, how do you split the difference? And I was intrigued by that during the early part of my career, before I was able to turn fully into children’s literature.

	C:	Yeah. Thank you. Now I guess I want to know about your most recent projects and how it’s evolved, so talking about the transition into new media right?

	T:	[Inaudible 59:03]. Yeah, I’m really excited about that. So my book that’ll be out in the spring, “The Dark Fantastic,” it has a new title. It’s called “The Dark Fantastic: Race and the Imagination from Harry Potter to the Hunger Games,” and the press changed it because they’re hoping to do a simultaneous academic and trade release, so they wanted a more marketable title. I’m excited about that, because it took me five years to write this book. I wouldn’t say five years, maybe three or four years, because I was writing articles. I think one of my signature pieces is one I just posted publicly before Harvard Educational Press emails me, says, “You need to take this off.” I put it on my academia.edu page. It’s called “Restoring the South.”

	C:	Yes. I couldn’t read it, and I was like, “This is frustrating.”



	T:	It’s on there now. No, no, it’s on there now, so when you’re finishing up you can read it. It was all about — oh! If you log on— here’s a tip— if you log on as an FSU student—

	C:	UF.



	T:	Oh, UF. Oh God, I’m so sorry! Oh my God!





	C:	[Laughter] Like oh stab me in the heart! T:	Yeah, oh sorry! Oh God, I’m so sorry!

	C:	This is on record, no I’m just kidding.



	T:	No I get it. Like I get it. It’s like, “She’s a Penn State professor.” C:	It really is.

	T:	I’m so sorry. But Samantha, if you log on as a UF student, what you’ll be able to do is you’ll be able to log on to library system, you should be able to have access through the libraries to the Harvard Educational Review there. I don’t know, I think you should. But anyways, it’s on my academia.edu page now. And what helped me start understanding what was happening was looking at race bent drawings of Frozen. So I think that people your age— so you’re twenty years younger than me— I think that when I was reading— and I write about this in “Dark Fantastic,” Hermione, Alice in Wonderland, Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz, I never raced the characters in my mind. They’re just White, and I had to peer over— like I write it more nicely [inaudible 1:09], peering over their shoulders of these girl characters who I loved and reread. So when I first began reading on Tumblr, because I’ve been in fandom as you’ve seen for twenty years, young, [19]90s born readers, particularly Black girl readers, basically inscribing, reading and writing the self into existence because basically insisting Hermione was Black. I was like, “How the hell do you think she’s Black? [Inaudible 1:01:41] you know Black people are [inaudible 1:42]. You don’t know Black girl’s gonna be the star of a billion dollar franchise.” And they were justifying Hermione being Black.





They were race bending Frozen, that was the big thing back in— there was racebending before that, but I remember how controversial Frozen was on Tumblr, because they were just like, “No, she’s White and Black.” And I was like, “She’s the snow queen.” So it was a generational difference. I was like, “I buy it.” So I was intrigued by this, and so I started interviewing some of the fan artists.

And so restoring the self is the article Amy and I both say that got us tenure, because I brought in the children’s literature and fandom expertise. And she’s a digital literacies specialist, so she trained with Glynda Hull at Berkeley. And what we did was we revisited Louise Rosenblatt’s theory of reader response. So basically she came up with reader response theory in 1935, and she and I just argued. We said, “Well somebody needs to revisit reader response, because we said what’s happening is they’re breaking sort of this reader-writer text relationship,” where the reader is basically they’re up bending meaning. So I think that’s really what I’m intrigued by, and why I want to start the humanizing stories initiative. I want to actually beyond just interviewing select people who race bend drawings and people are nice enough to respond to me on Tumblr, we got those interviews and [inaudible 1:03:06], they were like, “It’s not empirical research,” I’d like to collect the big archive of people talking about how they see what they see in books. Do they see the self, do they see— so that’s where I’m going with my work. And I think both strands of my work, which I’ll talk about in the— I don’t know if you’re coming to the lecture this evening—

	C:	I am.





	T:	But there’s the slavery in children’s literature strand, which you’re gonna get a lot of today from my talk, because — so I’m thinking about — I think what I do is race, space-time, and text for— narratives for children and teens. That’s like, literally all I will do for the rest of my career.

	C:	In a nutshell.



	T:	Yeah, yeah, right. So I have this strand of work where I’ve been looking at just enslavement in children’s literature and how that works. And reader’s responses to it, and how it exists in the culture. So there’s been people who have studied the text themselves, but there’s been less study of student responses to those texts. And there’s been less study of this one line of work, starting to write is— about the cultural politics of how we’re communicating to each successive generation of Americans that we were a slave-holding nation. Like when do you first find that out? Usually through a children’s book. You know, sometimes it’s if someone tells you.

	C:	If you find it out.



	T:	If you find it out, that’s right. That’s right. And then so that’s one strand. And then another strand is the “Dark Fantastic” work, where I’m looking at imaginative narrative. So what Todorov — I don’t know how to pronounce his first name. It’s Tzvetan Todorov, and I got to pronounce that name, because my book will be out and I’m gonna have to talk about that book, that’s important. But Todorov’s “The Fantastic” structural— the structural analysis of a literary genre. And what— sort of thinking about race when it encounters the imaginative or worlds that





never were. And I really am proud of “The Dark Fantastic”— I just got back the copy-edited manuscript. If you write me, maybe I can send you a little copy of when it comes out.

	C	Please, please. I was gonna ask you for your card if you have one afterwards.



	T:	Oh I have one. I finally have one. I finally have the right cards, since I just made tenure, so they wanted to give us the new cards.

	C:	Congratulations by the way! That’s incredible.



	T:	Thank you. Yeah it feels good, it feel good. So yeah, those are the two strands of work, and I’m gonna be talking about both more tonight, but I’m really passionate about understanding the way— okay let me stop talking, because I know rustling. And later on when you listen to this, it’ll be, “Oh I remember the pain of –“ there they are! See, this is what happens when you have too much in your— so yeah, this is— here we are. I need to get a cute little— I have a cute little purse but not a cute little, yeah. But this is my card.

	C:	Thank you. Thank you so much.



	T:	Yeah. So, yeah, really intrigued to think through what happens when young people encounter— especially twenty-first century young people— because, you know, I’m not trying to think “Y’all are so different than we were”— no you’re not.

	C:	No, we are though.



	T:	Yeah, yeah, thank you for saying that. Yeah, they’re like, you know how baby boomer conceit is. It’s like, “We’re not diff” — and I was like, “No, no, what they’re





doing is—“ and that’s why people are so excited about me and Amy’s work— and I was like, “All we’re doing is—,” we’re like, “listen, anybody born 1990 or after reads completely different than you. Differently than you do.” We just do. And it’s just— it would have never occurred to me to race bend, gender bend, or queer bend characters. Like basically no. I say this character is this, and I’m just like, “What? You can’t do that?” It’s like, “No, no she’s a little White girl.” And so I have so many questions Samantha, that I’m gonna be looking at in future projects. So I’m hoping the humanizing stories initiative will give me a capacious enough database so I can say, “Okay, so for those of us who are older, so those of us thirty-five and over, did we internalize a White reader in order to get through text?” I mean, I never really thought of it, but I was just— I even wrote like a million words of fanfiction about Hermione. Like my stories fifteen— ugh God, almost twenty years— they were really popular. Early Harry Potter fanfic. My life choices. I was a Harry-Hermione shipper, I know, I know, everybody else is like, “No, it’s Hermione-Ron.”

	C:	It’s Hermione-Ron.



	T:	I know, I knew, I know, I know. And the thing about it is, I was like, “Well, if I had known she was Black, maybe I would’ve read—“because I was such a big Angelina-Fred shipper before Fred died.” So I’m thinking I wrote a million words of fanfic about this woman, and how I explained her frizzy hair, or the ethnic features that some of these girls coded as her being either Black or bi-racial, I said, “Well she has a Jewish grandmother.” Because that was as close to [inaudible 1:08:10] that I could even— like my mind could not imagine her as





Black. Like I would never imagine a Black Alice, and I make this point in the book— but I said, “Look at what”— because this is my last chapter, because I’m explaining this problem in fantasy science fiction, dystopian horror, and then I turn and I was like, “But look, to quote Lin-Manuel Miranda, ‘Look around, look around. How lucky we are to be alive right now.’” And of course, some of the students, when I’ve done that Dark Fantastic talk before the book was done on the road like, I had a great group of undergrads. Everybody in the room was White, because it was Kansas State University. So, and then I’d given the talk at University of Utah, and both those groups of students— so they were around your age, probably— mid- to late [19]90s, [inaudible 1:09:01}, “Well, Dr. Thomas, yeah, this is great, but we know White people, and we don’t think that this is going to solve racism.” And I was like, “Well, it’s doing better than back in my day, where everybody was [inaudible 1:09:11.]” Because I was pointing out, I said, “Well, it’s not just kids of color who are race bending characters.” I interviewed White fan artists who were in their teens, and who were from one of the artists in the Harvard Ed piece that you’ll see Jessica [inaudible 1:09:26], she’s a young Romanian woman in undergrad, and she was race bending Tolkien’s characters. And I cried when I saw her race bent Varda for the first time, so beautiful. And I said, “You made the Valar, you know like the gods of Middle Earth, Black?” And she said, “Yeah, because I grew up watching the Marvel cartoon, X-Men cartoon. So I saw her as Storm.” And so I said, “Wow this is revolutionary.” And so my millennial and generation z kids — y’all not kids— young adults. Yeah, I don’t want to be offensive, because I remember when I





was twenty, and I was like, “I’m not a kid.” Yeah, yeah you are. But enjoy being young. Because you’re gonna blink and you’ll be my age. These will be gray. But they’re saying basically, “It’s not enough!” And I’m just like, “But look at how revolutionary this is.” But it’s like, “It’s not enough!” You know. And I buy it. So I added because of those talks with those students, I added a caveat at the end and talked about how here’s why this isn’t enough. This is good, but — because originally the ending of the book was, “Yay, and race bending, and gender bending, and queer bending will solve everything!” And people were like, “How can you be a Black woman walking around the United States and believe that?” And I was called out by—

	C:	That’s a fair criticism.



	T:	Yeah, yeah, yeah, I was called out— these were White undergrads who were intrigued, but woker than woke. And they were just like, “Yeah, we have this question.” And so what I did was, I said, “Okay fair point.” And then I actually talked about — my last section is basically bending’s not enough. You do have to have more diverse creatives of this stuff, and so I said, “Look at what Netty [inaudible 1:11:11], well Angie Thomas writes realistic fiction, but look at all these— Dhonielle Clayton, she wrote a Black, sort of fairytale story of The Belles, so we do need to diversify creators. So that’s sort of giving you a preview of The Dark Fantastic book. And yeah, so I did add that as my last section now. And then I said, “Okay, I’ll write another book if The Dark Fantastic does well, I’m gonna write a book probably called The Black Fantastic, where [inaudible 1:11:42]” because The Dark Fantastic is not Black fantasy, that’s not what it’s





about. It’s about what happens to racialized characters in mainstream fantasy science fiction comics, you know, superhero movies, and that’s a very— so I trace this cycle through 400 years of sort of, Western, Anglo-American history. But then the next book would be, okay, so how does content by creators of color differ? So yeah. That is where I’m going next.

	C:	Cool. Alright. I could talk to you all day long, so— T:	No, I’m sorry.

	C:	Why are you apologizing? This is amazing.



	T:	It’s fun. This is fun. I was nervous, because I was like, oral history, but this is— it’s really helping me think, and I’m sure you’ve heard from other people you’ve interviewed, it’s helping me think through who I am, and why I do the things I do. Sometimes you just do them as a human, and then you’re like, “Oh that’s why I do it.”

C:  Yeah, I was gonna ask you actually, when you’re talking about reader response, like when you’re evaluating that, are you doing that in terms of written responses like immediate written response, or is that like an oral response?

	T:	I’m gonna do oral retrospective interviews, or oral retrospective narratives of readers. Because one of the problems with researching race, gender, sexuality, and other factors of identity in children’s narratives is, if you ask kids— for instance, if I had kids read Little Black Sambo or Birthday Cake for George Washington, the argument could be made then to say, “How do you feel about this?” is that I could be damaging or harming kids. No matter what race of kids I





ask, that was something we wrestled with a few years ago when we were trying to generate a response set. And you’ll hear me talk about a couple of the projects we have done. But a response set of slavery to children’s literature, where you’re trying to get people to think about slavery. We’re finding that a lot of teachers avoid teaching slavery, not just Black teachers, but all teachers, avoid teaching slavery. And then when you do teach slavery, it’s taught pretty poorly. And so, one of the things I wanted to get kids to respond to [inaudible 1:13:51] and Birthday Cake for George Washington, some of the racist books that’ve come out over the past three years. But my senior doctoral student at the time said, “Well Eb, you can’t do that or you shouldn’t do that, because how are we gonna ask a class of second graders to respond to racist caricature in books?” Also they might not even recognize the violence of racism or sexism or homophobia in a book is such that when you’re a child, as Chimamanda Adichie says in her famous Ted Talk “The Danger of Single Story,” we’re most vulnerable and impressionable in the face of a story when we’re children. And so sometimes you don’t realize how violent that is. Because you’re innocent, you’re little, until years later. So I think I have a pretty good argument for why the humanizing stories initiative is going to be sort of this archive, digital history archive of adults. So people your age and older. So eighteen and up.

	C:	Eighteen and up. T:	Yeah.

	C:	You don’t want to include high school.





	T:	You know, maybe that’s a good— [inaudible 1:14:52], do you think I wouldn’t be damaging high schoolers?

	C:	No, I —



	T:	You think I can ask high schoolers about—



	C:	I think that high school is such a transformational period in someone’s life, so you’re going from this validation you receive from home to needing the validation of your peers, and I just think that in itself and the way you’re perceiving literature, I think that that’s just a different —

	T:	Okay. We could bolster, we can ask for digital narratives from — but maybe would you see fifteen or sixteen up? Maybe sixteen?

	C:	Yeah, I would say sixteen and up.



	T:	I think that’s a really good— the only thing is, for sixteen and seventeen year olds, we have to get parental assent— or consent, and the student’s assent. But I’m gonna jot that down, because I do think— and I had some sixteen years quoted in that Harvard Ed Review article, and it was fine. I asked IRB if I needed their consent, I wasn’t using their real names, so IRB was like, “We don’t care.” I’m gonna write down consider—

	C:	Yeah. I just think it would be a different perspective. And it would just add something, something [inaudible 1:16:07.]

	T:	I’m gonna collect them, but I think most useful might be sixteen to thirty year olds, because what’s gonna happen is, one of the reasons I’m trying to do this





research is because publishers will say— or just people out in the world will say, “Well, how do you know that’s harmful? You read all that stuff, Lucy Maud Montgomery used the n-word in one of the Anne books.” When I was real small, you read past it, it’s so weird! It’s like, I knew the n-word was wrong but I read past it, but then when you get older, you’re like, “Huh?” Same with Little House on the Prairie. There’s that whole controversy, I got into it with William Shatner [laughter.] It’s my claim to fame! And I’m a huge Trek-er, I love Trekie, Treker. I love Star Trek, and people are like— if anything happens to him I’ll mourn because I love Captain Kirk, but Captain Kirk wanted me to drop dead, you know? Because— hi!

	C:	Here let me pause the thing one second. T:	[Inaudible 1:17:08]

	U:	You know you guys can have a couple— T:	Oh great, we’re wrapping up now.

	U:	I’m sorry.



	C:	Okay, well we’ll wrap. I’ll end it recording.



	T:	And if I’m still here tomorrow, because I know there was— they put in— I’m supposed to meet with the director tomorrow, so yeah, I don’t know what your class schedule is like.

	C:	Okay, let me just—



	T:	And you can always call me back.





	C:	Yes! I was gonna say, let me just close the interview, and [inaudible 1:17:28], I just want to thank you so much for contributing to our collection and being here, and if there’s anything before I end that you’d like to add, maybe just something for the record, that you have thoughts about that I didn’t get to ask?

	T:	Wow. Keep on doing what you’re doing, I’m intrigued by the oral history project, and I commend your director, associate director, and all of you who worked so hard to collect the narratives of one of my ancestral states I guess.

	C:	Well thank you.



	T:	Thank you.









[End of interview]



		Transcribed by:		Megan Sam, November 15, 2019 Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 20, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 28, 2021