AAHP 253; Sherman; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 253 Hermia Sherman African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Marna Weston on March 9, 2012 49 minutes | 26 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Ms. Marna Weston describes a few vivid memories that constituted her life in Florida and Philadelphia. She details the 1928 storm that crossed into West Palm Beach, where her family was living at the time, and how they survived its initial physical impact in the area and prolonged, subsequent impact on their lives. In addition, she elaborates upon her experience in her high school’s choir group and basketball team. Ms. Weston also discusses her thoughts about how Lawley, Florida has evolved over her lifetime and highlights a revolutionary act she and her cousin partook in during the Civil Rights Movement. Finally, she delves into her sentiments on the presidential election of Barack Obama and reflects on stories passed down from her family about the Ku Klux Klan.



Keywords: African American History; Civil Rights Movement; Lawley; West Palm Beach











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 253

Interviewee: Hermia Sherman Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: March 9, 2012



	W:	Okay, so I’ll do my little introduction. This is Marna Weston in Lawtey, Florida at the home of Ms. Sherman. It is March 10, 2012 and thank you Ms. Sherman for speaking to me today. You can just speak into there. Can you please say and spell your full name?

	S:	Hermia Lee Sherman. H-E-R-M-I-A. L-double E. S-H-E-R-M-A-N. W:	Thank you, and when and where were you born?

	S:	Lawtey, Florida. Petesville, the settlement is called Petesville but it’s really Petersville.

	W:	I’m sorry, did I miss the date? S:	When I was born?

	W:	Yes, ma’am.



	S:	May 12, 1916.



	W:	Why is it called Petersville Settlement?



	S:	It’s called Petersville Settlement because my great grandfather was the first to come into this Petesville, named after Petersville. His name was Peter and this settlement is named after him because he was the first one that came and settled here.

	W:	Who were your mother and father? What were their names? S:	Alice and Arnett Thompkins. Alice Thompkins.

	W:	And do you know what was her birthday? It’s okay if you don’t, I just thought you might recall. If not, do you remember where she was from before she came to this area?





	S:	This is our area.



	W:	This is her area. Okay. What about your dad? What was his name? S:	Arnett Thompkins.

	W:	Okay, and he was originally from here as well?



	S:	Edgar was first. Out of Gainesville, they called it Edgar, Florida. W:	Okay, how about your mother’s parents? What were their names? S:	They were Strong’s. Robert and Alice Strong.

	W:	And your father’s parents?



	S:	Thompkins. Miles and Hettie Thompkins.



	W:	And they all grew up in this area? This is where they were from or did they come from somewhere else too?

	S:	They came from Hawthorne, Florida.



	W:	Hawthorne, terrific. What was it like growing up here in this area for you?



	S:	What was it like? Well, it was fine because this was all I knew and I was the only child, no sisters and brothers. But my mother and my daddy, I took them as playmates so I got along fine growing up without a big family, any sisters and brothers.

	W:	Were there neighbors close by with children that you played with? S:	No. They were at a distance.

	W:	How far from the house were they when you say at a distance? S:	I’d say about a half a mile.

	W:	That is a distance. S:	It’s a good distance.





W:  It’d take a while to walk that far and get there and find nobody there. [Laughter]. Well, what kind of responsibilities did you have as a child as far as chores? Did your parents assign chores to you?

	S:	No.



	W:	No chores?



	S:	No.



	W:	Did you all live on a farm? Did you have animals and you grew vegetables?



S:  No vegetables. Maybe, well yeah, like greens. Really, this area was full of strawberries.

W:  Did you ever pick strawberries? S:  Yes, I did.

W:  Okay. Did you like to do that or is that just something that you did because you were expected to do it?

S:  I think it was something that I did because I was expected to do it. W:  Do you remember going to school the first time?

S:  I remember going to school the first day and of course, my mother took me. Of course, when we went to school at that time, it was just one building. Just one building and all the kids was in that one building at that time.

	W:	Was that K through twelve or was it first grade to eighth grade? S:	First to eighth.

	W:	So it was really just a two room schoolhouse. What was the name of the school? S:	Lawtey Elementary

	W:	Lawtey Elementary. And do you remember the principal?





	S:	Talked about him the other day. I can’t remember it. I can’t remember right now. W:	How about one of the teachers that was there?

	S:	Ms. Lovett. One of the teachers was Mrs. Lovett. W:	Did you and Ms. Lovett get along?

	S:	Oh yeah. I was the teacher’s pet.



	W:	Oh really? Now I have an interesting way of think about that so I want to know could you share: one, how did you know that you was the teacher’s pet and two, how did you become the teacher’s pet?

	S:	One thing, I was obedient and did what she said. At that time, I’d say the teacher’s pet got to go home with her on the weekends. Sometimes, once in a while.

	W:	And that was an opportunity to get some extra studying done or was that kind of a reward and it was a weekend vacation?

	S:	It was a weekend vacation.



W:  Where did she live that made it such an exciting vacation? S:   She lived in the Hawthorne. Hawthorne, Florida.

W:  What subject did Ms. Lovett teach? S:  Math. At that time, it was arithmetic. W:  So you were good at arithmetic?

S:   Yeah.



	W:	What was the thing you liked the most about arithmetic? S:	Division.





	W:	Can you tell me something you remember from class from being taught division?



Something that sticks with you today from having learned it.



	S:	It’s been so long, I can’t—but I do know that I liked to go to school. You know, at that time that was all, just about everything there was to do. There was no movies or nothing like the kids have today and you’d be glad to get out and go to the school.

	W:	How did you get to school? Did you walk? S:	I walked.

	W:	You walked? How far was it?



	S:	I would say a good two miles because the schoolhouse was up where the prison is now. You know where that is?

	W:	Mmhm. Where we rode by coming down here? S:	Did you ride by coming?

	W:	Mmhm.



	S:	And I lived up on this end here. W:	Another piece?

	S:	Yes.



	W:	Two miles. Rain or shine, two miles? Snow or not, two miles. S:	Yeah, when it was raining—I can’t remember going in the rain. W:	But there was no buckboard, no bus?

	S:	No, sir.



	W:	And did you go by yourself or did you meet other kids along the way?





	S:	I met other kids but I had to do—I was on the last end and the kids I had to go by them and meet, which were cousins of mine.

	W:	So when you left Lawtey Elementary, where did you go to school next? S:	I went to West Palm Beach.

	W:	West Palm, and what, did you go to Roosevelt High School?



	S:	Was it Roosevelt High School? I don’t remember the name of the school. W:	Industrial High School?

	S:	Sound like it might have been Industrial up on Douglas Street.



W:  That’s the neighborhood I grew up in so I went to that school too, on the top of Division Avenue on Eleventh Street. When I went there it was called Palmview Elementary.

S:   That was since.



W:  But my dad went there when it was Industrial High School, so I know Industrial High. K through twelve, Industrial High, the top of the hill.

S:   Right.



	W:	That’s where I went to school, too. S:	What’d you say?

	W:	First to sixth grade. S:	Sure enough.

	W:	Well not second and third grade, because I moved to North Carolina briefly but first, fourth, fifth and sixth.

	S:	We lived on Tamarind.





	W:	I lived on Tamarind. Eighth and Tamarind, between Tamarind and Douglas on Eighth Street. 912 Eighth Street.

	S:	Do you remember when the storm came through and tore up everything? I mean, you read about it?

	W:	I’ve read about it.



	S:	You’ve probably read the story.



	W:	My grandmother’s told me about it and my aunts and uncles, they told me about it. So you were there when that happened?

	S:	When that happened? Yeah. W:	What was it like?

	S:	Oh, it was terrible. It was terrible. We left our little wooden house and went and sat down on Fourteenth Street where the palmettos were, where that railroad track come. All that was just a wooded area at that time. Sat down in the palmettos in the woods all night until daybreak. When we looked at our house in the woods and the splinters, nothing but just an old wooden house. It was in splinters. So many people got killed from that. I don’t know whether you read the story about—

	W:	I’ve heard one version but I’m interested in hearing your version of the story.



	S:	Well, it was terrible. It was a terrible storm. So many people got killed during the storm and they had to get a steam shovel at the cemetery to just dig holes and whoever could nail a nail, the coffins were just putting two and three in one box at the time.

	W:	So you must have been in your teens when that happened?





	S:	Yeah, maybe not quite.



	W:	So what was it like the night of the storm? You were outside, basically?



	S:	Outside, sitting on the ground in the palmettos, right beside the Seaboard track until daybreak.

	W:	I know exactly where you’re talking about. I’ve walked from Eighth Street on the tracks all the way down to Twenty-Fifth Street before and back. My brothers and I did that when we were growing up. So I walked past where you were on that railroad track.

	S:	What is that? Pleasant Grove?



	W:	I know what you’re talking about. It’s not Pleasant Grove but it’s Pleasant— S:	It’s on the map now. It’s named something else.

	W:	It’s not Pleasant Street, but you’re talking about the project part down there where it used to be the project. Yeah. I can’t think of the name. Pleasant something is right. [Knocking]

	S:	Come in. Yes?



	U:	Hello there.



	S:	Hello.



	U:	Swamp man. How are you? S:	I’m doing good.

	U:	Can I get you anything today?



	S:	I need some butter pecan but I don’t think I got any money. U:	How you doing?

	W:	Hi, how you doing today?







U:

Okay.

S:

How much is it?

U:

One butter pecan, that’s it? Seven and a quarter.

S:

Oh, is that all? Oh I thought it was more than that.

U:

Well, you usually get two. They’re half gallons.

S:

Yeah, okay. May I be excused a minute?

W:

Certainly.

S:

Thank you.

W:

You’re welcome. Can I just go ahead and take care of that, sir?

U:

Sure.

W:

Alright. Let me have two, like normal?

U:

Oh, two?

W:

Whatever she normally gets.

U:

I didn’t have the second one. She usually gets bomb pops too if she wants them,



instead of a second one.

W:

Okay.

U:

Twenty nine.

W:

What’s the total on that?

U:

I’ll tell you in a second. $12.80.

W:

Here’s thirteen.

U:

Thank you very much.

W:

Pleasure.

U:

I’ll get that. I’ll be right back.







S:



W:

I’m sorry.



It’s quite alright. You can put your money away, it’s already taken care of.

S:

What?

W:

Yeah. It’s my pleasure. I said I’d take care of it.

S:

Thank you. Oh. [Laughter]. God bless.

W:

Little sweet for the sweets now. That’s not in exchange for the interview. We can



stop interviewing any time that you want to.

S:

I appreciate that.

W:

Well, we’re both from Tamarind. [Laughter]

S:

Oh my goodness. This is the day.

X:

That the Lord hath made.

S:

Yes and I’m blessed.

X:

Yes you are.

S:

I am blessed.

W:

And so are we, the chance to hear about the storm. Oh, thank you. I just want to



make sure, we’re talking about the [19]28 storm, not the [19]35 storm. Which one



are we talking about?

S:

Oh.

W:

I figure we’re talking about the [19]28 storm since you said you were a teenager.

S:

You weren’t born then.

W:

No, ma’am.

S:

And the oil had built up all around. There was nothing but a wooded area.

U:

Thank you very much.





	W:	Have a great day.



	U:	See you in a couple weeks. Have a good weekend. S:	Alright, thank you. Good to see you.

	U:	You too. Aretha was asking about you. S:	She was?

	U:	Yeah, she asked me if I went there yet. Alright, see you in a couple weeks. Take care. Bye.

	S:	Alright. Bye bye.



	W:	I like the Schwan’s people. They support a lot of high school programs and things I’m involved in, so I like them.

	S:	Good.



	W:	They give us an ice cream social at the National Speech and Debate Tournament every year. So where ever I take my students out, Schwan’s will have a little reception with ice cream for the kids.

	S:	Isn’t that nice?



	W:	Mmhm.



	S:	Give you something sometimes, instead of taking in. Oh, that’s so nice.



	W:	They’re a good company. It’s hard to find a good company. So you stayed outdoors during the entire storm. So, when the storm started, was it daylight or did it start at night?

	S:	The storm started in the daytime.





	W:	Did you have any warning ahead of time that it was coming? How did you find out that you were supposed to go get out of the houses and things like that? How did you find out?

	S:	Well, I’ll tell you what. How we found out was, the house that we lived in on Tamarind was a little wooden shack. The next street would have been Fourteenth Street. We had a cousin that lived—well, if you went out our back door, you could go right into hers. She was on the next street. So that’s what we did. When this house started to move at night, shaking a bit, we went out the back door right into her back door. She had this huge storm breaker. It wasn’t wooded, it was boards. That’s where we went. Later on, then we left there and went right down the street, right by the railroad track. That was a wooded area. And we sat there all night until the next morning. It really stormed. The wind blew while we were sitting down there in the palmettos.

	W:	Were you all holding on to the trees or holding on to each other or just sitting on the ground?

	S:	No, we were just sitting around in a circle. Me, my mom and dad.



	W:	How did you know to go and do that? To go and sit outside like that?



	S:	Because it was announced that the worst wasn’t over. It was gonna come back, turn around and come back. It sounds logical?

	W:	Yeah, the eye of the hurricane. It gets quiet in the eye and then the back wall of a hurricane comes.

	S:	Uh-huh. That’s what happened.





	W:	I remember when Hurricane David came through in [19]79. That wasn’t as bad as some of the hurricanes that have happened afterwards but we were scared. It hit worse up around Jupiter.

	S:	Jupiter?



	W:	Yeah, it kinda grazed West Palm Beach but Jupiter that was just all scrub trees and stuff back then. There was nothing up there. Now, all that is big. Palm Beach Gardens, West Palm Beach, Wellington. All of that is just all built up now.

	S:	Somebody else told me that. But you know what? On the Everglades—you know about the Everglades and all that canals in the water and everything—and there was so many people got drowned out there, they had to get the steam shovel to dig the graves. To dig a whole and they’d put anybody, the carpenters, that could nail a nail, no coffin, just boxes. They’d lay it on and put a couple in there, three, with that steam shovel. It was terrible.

	W:	What was the worst thing that happened with you and your family in the storm?



Everybody was safe I hope, personally. But you saw a lot of things.



	S:	Yeah. We saw these wooden houses sailing up in the air, just like paper. W:	And you were watching it?

	S:	Yeah. Yes, sir. I’ll always remember. W:	The whole house?

	S:	Just a house. These little wooden houses, you know, built some just like this but they wasn’t quite as large as this, little wooden shacks. Pick it up. Sail in the air like paper.





	W:	So the storm ended and people were cleaning up. Where did you get your water and food and all that from after the storm?

	S:	You know, I know we had—this house where we went, it was my cousin’s house and she had a beautiful home. It was a brick home. We were in just a little wooden—I imagine we got the water from there.

	W:	What was your cousin’s name? S:	Maybelle Forks.

	W:	Maybelle Forks. Okay. So how long did it take before things got back to normal after the storm?

	S:	Oh, I can’t remember. I don’t remember but I know one thing. It took a long time before it was rebuilt. Rebuild what we had, we had to live in another house that was two families.

	W:	What was the name of the other family? S:	The other family. . . Strogers.

	W:	Strogers. Were these people that you all knew ahead of time or just you kinda got put together?

	S:	We knew the whole time. W:	And where did they live at?

	S:	They lived on—what was that between Sapodilla? Douglas. W:	Between Sapodilla and Douglas? On what street?

	S:	I believe it was Twelfth Street.





	W:	Didn’t there used to be a Sherman’s Grocery Store on Sapodilla and Eighth Street at the bottom of the hill before you went to the Rinker Plant? This would have been in the [19]70s and the [19]80s. So, many years after the storm.

	S:	Many years after the storm?



	W:	Sherman’s Grocery on Sapodilla.



	S:	No, I was a Thompkins before. At that time. I married and changed my name. W:	So life returned to normal after the storm? You started going back to school?

Yes? No?



	S:	Oh yeah, I went back to school. I went back. As far as I can remember now, I did go back.

	W:	And did you stay and Industrial High School all the way through and graduate from there?

	S:	No, No, we moved.



	W:	Okay, you did move. After the hurricane?



	S:	Oh, we stayed a good while after the hurricane but we came up this way and then I went to school here. From there, I went to Live Oak, Florida up north.

	W:	Where did you graduate from high school? S:	Here in Lawtey.

	W:	Okay, what was the name of the school? S:	Anderson Junior High.

	W:	Anderson Junior High, okay. Who was the principal at Anderson Junior High? S:	Anderson.





	W:	Mr. Anderson? [Laughter]. And you got your high school degree there? Well, Junior High, so eighth grade.

	S:	No, I got it at Live Oak, Florida Memorial. W:	Okay, Florida Memorial High School.

	S:	Right, they had a high school.



	W:	Who was the principal of the high school at Florida Memorial? S:	Losing my mind. Isn’t that awful?

	W:	Oh no, it takes time sometimes. I’m asking you questions that you probably haven’t thought about for seventy years. Do you remember who your best friend was in high school?

	S:	Lord have mercy. I can’t think. My best friend and she lived in Trevarians.



	W:	Let me ask you this way, tell me something that was your best memory from high school. Anything you remember that you liked the most about high school.

	S:	My biggest remembrance of high school is singing with the group. We would get a chance to go places and sing at different. We’d get a chance to leave the campus and go and sing and raise money for the school.

	W:	So you were part of the choir? S:	Yes.

	W:	Did you do that the whole time you were there or what year did you start doing that?

	S:	Couple years of that. I don’t know what year. Way back then.



	W:	Do you remember any of the songs that you sang? Did you participate in any other activities besides choir in high school?





	S:	Basketball.



	W:	You played basketball? Okay. How long did you play basketball? S:	Two years.

	W:	Did you?



	S:	Yes I did.



	W:	How did you all do?



	S:	We did fine. We did fine. We won some and we lost some, too. We didn’t win ‘em all. That was for sure.

	W:	Did you play with six girls or with five girls when you played? S:	Six.

	W:	You played with six. Did you play in the front court or the back court? S:	I don’t know.

	W:	Maybe a little of both?



	S:	Yeah. I said basketball, right?



	W:	You did. What did you like the most about playing basketball?



	S:	What I liked the most about it, I was—whatcha call it when you two in a ring and you jump? They throw a ball up and then you hit the ball and whichever way it goes, the other team got it.

	W:	Oh, the tip off. The tip off at the beginning. You liked that part? S:	Yes.

	W:	Why did you like that part?



	S:	‘Cause I’d get a chance to slap ‘em in the face. [Laughter] And they couldn’t do nothing about it.





	W:	The reason I acted the way I acted when you said basketball is, I used to coach girls basketball at Newberry High School. The girls were mean. They were more concerned about making their point than winning a game. They didn’t care if we won or not as long as they’d made their point with the other girls. They wanted them to know who they played. You played Newberry tonight.

	S:	I’m telling you. Good ole days I guess. W:	Do you remember the coach?

S:  Oh, what was his name? It doesn’t come to me right now. I can’t think of it right now. Maybe it’ll come to me later.

W:  So you played basketball and you were in the choir at Florida Memorial. Were you in student government or any activities or that’s what you did? Those two things and went to class?

S:   Choir and basketball. That’s what I did.



W:  So when you graduated from Florida Memorial High School, you went to Florida Memorial College? Or what did you do?

S:   Did two years.



	W:	Do you have any good memories from those two years? I know you were on the same campus so you didn’t really go anywhere, but did you like the difference between being a college student and being a high school student?

	S:	No, I did not. I thought the other part was better than the college. Boy, it’s been so many years ago. I thought I was keener than that. It’s been a long time.

	W:	It has been. Just to recall it like that would be a surprise anyway. I’m trying to remember what I had for lunch. [Laughter] I remember what I drank.





	S:	What’d you drink?



	W:	Well, I had a half and half sweet tea. When you left college, when you left Florida Memorial after your two years, what did you do then?

	S:	When I left, I went to Philadelphia. I went to beauty— W:	Beauty school?

	S:	Right.



	W:	Why Philadelphia? To go to beauty school or did you have another idea?



	S:	The reason I went to Philadelphia, I had an aunt up there. I didn’t have any relatives but my aunt was little bit older and she was always like a sister to me. She was already up there and she was in the beauty business with me.

	W:	What was her name?



	S:	Her name was Perditha. W:	Perditha? Okay.

	S:	Thompkins Culmer.



	W:	Could you spell the last name please? S:	C-U-L-M-E-R. Culmer.

	W:	Culmer, okay. Perditha Thompkins Culmer. S:	Culmer.

	W:	Culmer, okay. How long had she lived in the big city before you came up there and joined her?

	S:	Well she lived in Miami and then she left there and went to Philadelphia.



	W:	So she told you about this great opportunity to come do hair? And that sounded appealing to you?





	S:	And that’s where I went up there along with her to Madam Walker. I went to college and that’s where I graduated from as a beautician.

	W:	Did you meet Madam Walker? S:	No.

	W:	So it was one of her franchised schools. S:	The picture was on the—

	W:	This is Madam C. J. Walker School. What did they tell you about how you would behave and how you would master the arts? How did they tell you about it?

	S:	How did they tell me?



	W:	Yes, the person who was in charge that was teaching. What did they say to you? S:	About the course?

	W:	Well yes, because it was the Madam C.J. Walker School and you were coming to work in the Madam C.J. Walker Boutique. Did they have some special words to inspire you?

	S:	I can’t remember that. I’m sure they did though. W:	And you did get the certificate?

	S:	Oh, yes. I got the certificate and I stayed up there and worked a while. Then I came back to Florida.

	W:	Back to Lawtey? S:	Yeah.

	W:	So you went from Lawtey, to West Palm Beach, to Philadelphia- S:	Palm Beach was the first.





	W:	Palm Beach to Philadelphia. Palm Beach to Live Oak to Philadelphia to Lawtey.



	And been here ever since? S:	I’ve been here ever since.

	W:	What are your thoughts about Lawtey today compared to Lawtey when you first came here?

	S:	Well, I really don’t know. If you’re retired, it’s not a place for, I don’t think for a person that’s looking to move on up. It’s alright just for people who are ready to kinda settle down to come. Maybe not for a lot of people, ‘cause some people, whether you’re old or young, don’t like the country. They like the city life. But for me, I’ve had experience in both so this is what I like.

	W:	Like the country better? S:	Yes.

	W:	You like the pace better or the people or what is it that you prefer as opposed to the city?

	S:	Well, I like the peaceful and quiet. That’s what I like. Not a whole lot of fuss fuss all the time.

	W:	When you were growing up, how people were treated because of the color of their skin was a lot different than how people are treated today. Did you ever have any experiences where because you were a Black woman, people said things or treated you differently either in Florida or in Philadelphia that made you think about how, why are people like this?

	S:	Because of color? No. But you know from the beginning, I know it was different because at that time, even if you went to the doctor’s office, you got a little space





here they had for Black and White. They weren’t together. But now things have changed. I can remember an incident that my cousin from Philadelphia came here to visit and she had a little cold. She thought it was pneumonia but anyway I took her to the doctor right in Starke here on this side, C-O-L-O-R-E-D, here or whatever and she raised so much sand ‘cause she grew up in Philadelphia. She raised so much sand about that, right then and there that they took the sign down. That’s been years ago. Dr. Adam and Dr. Filose.

	W:	Did they ever put the sign back up?



	S:	No, no. They took it down. Done away with.



	W:	Took it down. So you had your own little movement, your moment in the Civil Rights Movement right there with your cousin.

	S:	Right there and it’s been years ago. W:	What was your cousin’s name?

	S:	Vannie Culmer.



	W:	Could you spell it please? S:	V-A-N-N-I-E. C-U-L-M-E-R.

	W:	Did Vannie come back and visit you again here?



	S:	Oh yeah, she comes back. She’s still in Philadelphia. Just talked with her one day last week.

	W:	I would love to talk to her about that moment if she recalls it.



	S:	I don’t know about that. We call and we talk. She’s getting up there.



	W:	And the doctor treated her well? They gave her what she needed to get better? S:	Oh yeah.





	W:	I’m gonna ask you about a couple of historical moments or people and if you’ll just tell me what comes to your mind when I mention those people. John F. Kennedy.

	S:	President. I don’t know. I can’t think.



	W:	There’s no correct answer, I’m just trying to see what pops into your mind. Martin Luther King.

	S:	Martin Luther King got a lot started. He got a lot started as far as the race is concerned. I think he did. And this is continuing on. I feel like it is. It’s better for the Blacks.

	W:	Lyndon Johnson.



	S:	I don’t know too much about him. W:	How about Barack Obama?

	S:	He’s the one for today and I think he’s good. I think he’s alright. He’s trying. W:	Did you ever think that you would see the President be African American? S:	No, I had no thoughts. I thought it was for the other way around.

	W:	So you were surprised?



	S:	Yes I was. I was surprised. Of course, I was glad. I said maybe this is where the change comes in.

	W:	When you say of course that you were glad, maybe for somebody that might not be able to understand or doesn’t see it the same way as you do. What do you mean when you say of course you were glad that he won, why were you glad?





	S:	Because I knew it was gonna be a change for better for the Blacks. I thought that was the way it would be. His voice being in that class, we had it rough for a long time you know.

	W:	Did you ever have any problems trying to go out and vote when you were younger?

	S:	No, I never did. But I was close though. I know about some of the happenings what took place. But I never did get into that.

	W:	Did you ever hear or see of some of the activities with the Ku Klux Klan or people being beaten or taken away or hung? Is that something you might have heard about as a child or when you were younger or seen any of that?

	S:	Mmhm.



	W:	Is it something that you still remember well?



	S:	Well, it happened. I was here. I was born. I was a little child but I can remember the talk about it. It happened, it happened right here in this area, there was a Black man that lived in Lawtey and this has been years ago. I don’t know what happened, what he did, but it was a Black man that was lynched on the other side of 301 back then, that area. And they told me his name was Sam Valinger and they came and took him out and they lynched him, however they do about lynching and he was nailed up on the tree. My grandparents lived this way not too far before you cross the tracks—

	W:	West of here.



	S:	And then there was Thompkins and they had a big farm out there. That was my grandfather and these White people, those that lynched Mr. Valinger came by,





called him out of the field. His name was Miles, said, “Miles,” this is what I was told. Said, “We killed a nigger last night, we lynched him and he’s out there on the tree. Some of y’all better go out there and take him down.” Then they kept on the horsebacks kept going and my grandfather, Miles Thompkins, he kept hoeing and did he go? No. What happened, he don’t know how he got down or nothing but he knows he wasn’t the one that did it. My granddaddy.

	W:	Do you think that the people that did those kind of things will ever come to justice?

	S:	Justice? I don’t think there’s any for them. How could it be? You mean to tell me somebody minding their own business and you don’t even know ‘em, they’ve never done anything to you and you just gonna—no, I don’t think so.

	W:	Ms. Sherman, I have very much appreciated speaking to you and on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, would like to thank you very much for the time to talk with you today and have you share these reflections. I like to close all my interviews by giving the person who I spoke with the chance to say anything that they want to say. Something that was left out or something about the interview or any thoughts you might have and as soon as you finish those comments, that will be the end of the interview. Because this is the last time I plan on speaking.

	S:	I think I’m finished. Maybe talked about some of the things that you would like to hear for your program. I hope so.

[End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, February 26, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019