AAHP 133, Cusseaux; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 133 Allen Cusseaux African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Rachel Nickie and Anna Brodrecht on September 3, 2010 18 minutes | 9 pages



Abstract: This interview was conducted at the 2010 Black Alumni Weekend at the University of Florida, primarily by alumna Rachel Nickie after some facilitation by Anna Brodrecht. Mr. Cusseaux grew up in Tampa, and talks about how he ended up at UF and what his early experiences were on campus. He describes being active with the Black Student Union, and with several dance troupes. He also worked at the Institute of Black Culture, and describes the personal importance of IBC and the student organizations he participated in. He concludes by relating the personal significance of the Association of Black Alumni and his hopes for the future of UF.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]

















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 133

Interviewee: Allen Cusseaux

Interviewer: Anna Brodrecht and Rachel Nickie Date: September 3, 2010



	B:	It’s recording right now and all you have to do is talk to each other like normal. I’ll go ahead and introduce myself. I’m Anna Brodrecht from the Oral History Program at the University of Florida. We’re here with?

	N:	Rachel Nickie.



	B:	And?



	C:	Allen Rocky Cusseaux Jr.



	B:	So Rocky and Rachel are going to interview each other, and I’m going to step out of the interview right now. Enjoy!

	N:	What years did you attend the university?



	C:	I got here in Summer B [19]95, and I didn’t end up finishing my last program until 2005.

	N:	Where were you born and where did you grow up? C:	I’m originally from Tampa.

	N:	You grew up there?



	C:	Yeah Tampa native. Fortunately enough for me, I had a very active cousin here at the University of Florida. Ed Jennings, Jr. He convinced me to come here for a preview and the next thing I knew he had me registered.

	N:	Did you always plan to go on to college?



	C:	I did. It was certainly one of those things my parents, family, and friends encouraged us to consider, was to make sure that we went to college.

	N:	Talking about your parents, what did your parents do for a living?





	C:	My mother worked as a manager for a medical billing firm and my father was a commercial artist for many years, especially leading up to my time coming to college.

	N:	What were your first impressions of Gainesville and what did you expect coming in?

	C:	One of my first impressions was that it was a really big school. Fortunately enough for me, I wasn’t scared by that. I wasn’t intimidated by that. I think it helped having family here. My uncle and aunt were very active in the Gainesville community. My uncle was a former commissioner and mayor. Having strong family connections, especially to the university, I knew it would be a relatively easy transition for me.

	N:	So while you were here on campus, did you live on campus? Where exactly did you live?

	C:	Yeah, my first few years I was on campus. I started off in Murphree Hall. I quickly learned to get active and I joined the area government. After that I moved off campus and had some really great experiences, especially living in the dorms, Great deal of community in my dorm. That was one of the main reasons I adjusted so well, was I felt like I had a lot of great people around me.

	N:	How did you pay for school and your having to pay for your living expenses as well?

	C:	I predominantly accepted student loans. I also worked while I was in college. One of my first jobs was as a desk assistant in Murphree Hall. Right in that first dorm





that I was living in, I started working. I finished my college career here working and being a student. So that was kind of always the case.

	N:	Where did you go if you wanted to have some fun in Gainesville? It can be either on campus or off-campus.

	C:	Once again Murphree was definitely a hot spot. Every night there was a crowd of kids who would hang out in there and we would play different card games, just a lot of socializing. It was wonderful for me because I’ve always been a bit of a night owl. So having a group of kids who were always hanging out was great. I also was very active in a lot of dance groups and we would occasionally have parties. Say maybe Caribsa would have some really wonderful parties

	N:	Remember some of the local clubs?



	C:	One of the clubs was 238 West. The clubs always had a tendency to change names after a few years. Florida Theatre was a big one. We had had a few parties at Norman Gym. In later years I was a big fan of Gator Nights. That was always fun. Free movies and breakfast at midnight. Perfect for a night owl like myself.

	N:	Were you there in Gainesville when they changed the time where you’re allowed to be out like with drinking? I remember something changed.

	C:	I think clubs used to let out at three A.M. I think in later years it changed to two A.M., if I’m not mistaken. Actually I’m not sure. I don’t recall.

	N:	Where did you go to get your haircut?



	C:	I learned to cut my own hair. But when I was in that first dorm—I take that back— in the first dorm I was living in back in Murphree, there was a wonderful guy





named Tony Eugene, his nickname was Shaggy, and Shaggy did some wonderful haircuts.

	N:	Did you have a mentor when you were here on campus?



	C:	I had a ton of mentors and I’m so thankful because those were some of those individuals who helped get me acclimated to the university so well. Of course, first being my cousin Ed Jennings Jr. Second were—there’s so many to name. But I felt embraced by the director of the IBC at that time, Steven Roberts. Even Dr. Lombardi I felt was a pretty good mentor. There were several teachers who didn’t mind giving you a little extra time, especially if you were willing to go to office hours and to get to know them on a personal level. I had some really wonderful mentors here.

	N:	I know earlier you mentioned some of the organizations that you belonged to whether they were Greek or the dance troupes. Can you tell us about those organizations?

	C:	Yeah, I was always very active. I developed that habit in high school. I was active with BSU and ended up also then working at the IBC. That was another job that I had. Working there also helped keep me feeling as though I was very aware of what was going on with a couple of different student organizations. I also helped to start a couple of dance organizations on campus. One being Nubian Alegria, which was a multicultural dance grouped started by LaVon Fisher. We started in 1995 and that was a really wonderful experience. Then five years later I helped start another dance group called Apocalypse Dance Troupe. This Labor Day weekend 2010 we’re celebrating our ten year anniversary. Like I mentioned





earlier, I’ve had the opportunity to be in Gainesville for several years. That’s why I had a wonderful opportunity to be a part of a lot of different dance groups and a lot of different student organizations. Also I remember competing at VISA, which was a multicultural dance competition. I had an opportunity to dance with different groups for those competitions. One group was Club Creole and we won that year. The next year I performed with the Hispanic Student Association. I did a tango routine and we also won that year. So I feel like I’m a good luck charm. Maybe it’s just me.

	N:	What was your major? Did you ever change majors? And if so, why?



	C:	My major was always a fluid concept in my mind. I initially started with Business and in Business—I was teeter-tottering between Computer Science—and in Business they also had a Decision Information Science, which was computers and business. So I started off in that route but I ended up finishing with an Economics degree. Like I said, it was a fluid concept. I didn’t necessarily have a profession in mind when I came to college, so I wasn’t one hundred percent certain of what I wanted to study. Fortunately enough for me, I had an opportunity to look at a couple of different majors and I found my way while I was here basically.

	N:	Just looking around at some of the classes that you had, how many other Black people did you see among faces?

	C:	In my classes, maybe not a great deal of Black faces. But being so involved in my student organizations and working at the IBC, the Institute of Black Culture, I never felt at a loss for having that Black student experience with my fellow Black





students. Like I said, I can just attribute that to those organizations that I was a part of. And having something like the Institute of Black Culture was so phenomenally wonderful for me and I’m so appreciative that something like that was here. I hope that it can always be here for students that can identify with that cultural distinction. I just wanted to add I think it’s so important, because being that the University of Florida is so large and considering that it is predominantly a Caucasian university, is why it’s so important for people to feel like they have some sort of a place to call home. Some folks that look like them that they can relate to, to help them to make it through this big college experience.

	N:	Who were your friends while you were here and how did you meet each other? C:	Oh goodness. My first group of friends were the kids who started off in the

Summer B program with me. But as the semesters went on, different people pledged different organizations or joined different organizations. So it seemed like every few semesters you would have a new set of friends. My friends in college was always kind of a fluid concept. But you never completely lose touch with folk.

	N:	Did you go to Gator Growl? I think you were host of Gator Growl.



	C:	I did have the opportunity to host Gator Growl one year—the year that Bill Cosby was here. I had to compete at Gator Nights and I had to compete against different student organizations for the opportunity. I was selected for that and that was a great honor. Matter of fact, I did the—I wanna say it was called Gator Nights. Not Gator Nights.

	N:	You did the comedy show one of the Gator Nights.





	C:	There was a talent night to see if you could participate and I believe I did it two years in a row. Gator Growl was a great experience and I was so happy to be a part of such a tremendous pep rally. From my understanding, it’s the largest student-run pep rally in the world. To see all those people, to see all those gator fans and to feel that energy, great pyrotechnic shows, and just wonderful entertainment; it was a tremendous experience.

	N:	Who was UF’s president when you were here? What did you know about him?



	C:	When I started it was President Lombardi, John Lombardi. I just remember him being really down to earth, really approachable. He did a great job making himself available to the students.

	N:	So off-campus. Did you attend church while you were here in college? C:	I did not.

	N:	Did you engage with the local Black community? C:	Very much so. As much as I could.

	N:	Did you go home on the weekends?



C:  I didn’t go home a lot. Being from Tampa, it was only about an hour and a half to two hours away so I knew I could. I pretty much went home for breaks. I wasn’t a kid who went home a lot on the weekends. One reason being that I didn’t have a car when I first started. And I hated the Grey Hound.

N:   Are you familiar with the Black Student Union and the Black Student Assembly?



C:  Yes, I’m very familiar with all of those groups. I’ve always been a performer, so fortunately enough for me, I was able to hosts several of those events. So that was wonderful for me.





	N:	What is it like now to come back to UF? How has the campus changed?



	C:	Oh my gosh. The campus has grown a tremendous amount. The city keeps growing. There’s always a new building here whenever I come back. It feels great. It feels great to have been able to finish my degrees. I had some friends who didn’t finish. To be able to come back, to be an alumni and to stay active, it’s a wonderful feeling. Especially on a weekend like this, coming back to not only celebrate Black Alumni Weekend, but to celebrate the ten year anniversary of a dance group that I helped start is just phenomenal. To be able to hopefully mentor some of those young guys the way I was mentored to help me through process, not just in college but looking forward to life after college. I think it’s just a wonderful opportunity. I think it’s sort of like this wonderful circle of life.

	N:	The circle of life [Singing]. What is it like to meet different alumni from different years coming back to Black Alumni Weekend?

	C:	It’s wonderful. One of the main lessons that I was able to learn outside of the classroom was how important it is to network and to have friends. To be a part of this Gator Nation and now as an alumni to be able to see how—I’ve gotten a taste of how extensive the Gator Nation is, is just tremendous. I want to always continue to be a part of that and to make sure I leave a legacy here at the university. That was just one of the best lessons that I could learn here.

	N:	So being here now, do you feel a sense of community or sense of achievement?



	C:	I definitely feel a sense of achievement being able to finish. Because initially being a student who didn’t really know what I wanted to particularly major in at first, but being able to, like I said, find my way while I was here and to finish





definitely felt like an accomplishment. Especially, as I mentioned, having some friends who didn’t finish, but that was a small number. It wasn’t a great number of people. A lot of my friends have finished and we’ve stayed in contact, so it’s just a wonderful sense of community. To have been a part of so many student organizations and to come back and to still see those organizations doing well is just wonderful. It’s just great to be a Florida Gator.

	N/C:	[Chanting in unison]. It’s great to be a Florida Gator. I said it’s great to be a Florida Gator.

[End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Anupa Kotipoyina, October 19, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019