AAHP 677; Tellis; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 677 Freddie Tellis 7-6-2019 Interviewed by Deon Winchester on July 6, 2019

30 Pages



Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; US Marines; Military history; Pensacola, Florida]



AAHP 677

Interviewee: Freddie Tellis Interviewer: Dion Winchester Date: July 6, 2019



	W:	Good afternoon. T:	Good afternoon.

	W:	My name is Dion Winchester. I’m with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program.



Today is Saturday, the 6th of July, 2019, and we are with Reverend Freddie Tellis. Thank you for taking the time to be with us today.

	T:	You’re welcome. My pleasure.



	W:	Indeed. Can I ask a bit of yourself? I mean are you born and raised in Pensacola?

	T:	Born and raised in Pensacola. Actually, born in Coy, Alabama. My mother went to Coy Alabama when it was time have me cause she wanted her mother to deliver me. So, my grandmother was my deliverer. And then came back here at six weeks old, but basically raised and bred right here in Pensacola, Florida. All my early education was here. Graduated from the Booker T. Washington High School class of 1969, fifty years ago last month, joined the United States Marine Corps at seventeen years old, and at thirty years and thirty-one days, three combat tour. When I retired from the Marine Corps I taught high school for nine years, and retired from that. I’m now a full-time pastor at the Allen Chapel AME church right here in Pensacola.

	W:	That is quite a resume. Let’s begin with— you mentioned your grandmother living in Alabama. Could you talk about some of your early childhood memories?





	T:	My grandmother and my grandfather were two of the very, very, few people in Wilcox county that could read and write, so she was a midwife, and my grandfather was an entrepreneur, an officer in his church. But my grandmother delivered most of the Black and White babies that were born in Wilcox County from the early 1900s, up until she moved up to Pensacola in the [19]50s. In fact my sister and I have her birth records. You can actually see where, for example, John Smith, was born in 1903, mother Mary Smith, father Charles Smith, that type. So she delivered most of the children in the county. They were Black and White. So my grandmother and my grandfather had limited education, but like I said, they were one of the few Blacks in the county that could read and write. So they were translators, and they helped a lot of people in their community. So that’s where we’re from.

	W:	For the record, what were their names?



	T:	My grandfather was Elijah Thompson, and my grandmother Eusenia Thompson.



	W:	Being able to read and write, I’m sure I ask, was there any family history communicated from your grandmother, from her parents? Great-grandmother?

	T:	My great-grandparents on both sides of my family were slaves. My grandparents were the first free-born of our families. Our grandfather, his father was White, whose family had previously owned the slaves that were now free. So his father was White and his mother was Black, and his next brother was also half-Black, half-White. And so the formal owner who is now the father of these two, he sent them to Mobile to learn how to read and write and to learn trade. And my





grandfather was a blacksmith. So that’s how he came to know how to read and write and have a trade, and to do all those types of things. They were very independent minded folk. My grandfather and I had the records too. He would keep track of all of his purchases, cause at that time you could go to the store and buy supplies. Food and cloth to make dresses and stuff. And since most Blacks could not read or write, they would simply sign their name with a “X”. Well, my grandfather could read and write, and he kept meticulous records of all his purchases and how much he actually owed, so he could never be cheater out of his wages. So we have records of him buying so many bushes of potatoes, or so many yards of cloth. And my grandmother would the make clothes for the children, and teach her daughters how to sew. So they were very independent minded people, and they were very strong people, and their sense of pride and family values and closeness was taught to my mother, taught to me and my sister and my brothers, and I taught to my children and my grandchildren, and now my great-grandchildren as well. So the legacy just keeps on going down the hill.

	W:	How many brothers and sisters do you have?



	T:	My two older brothers have passed away, but I have a younger sister who lives in California.

	W:	And your children?



	T:	I have three adult children. One is a retired Navy chief, and one is a retired Marine Corps Master Sergeant, I have a daughter, and between the three of





them I have ten grandchildren. And from my grandchildren I have ten great- children.

	W:	Lots of kids.



	T:	Lots.



	W:	Speak to about what was it like growing up in Pensacola, and what were some of the experiences, what were some of the institutions that had the greatest impact in your upbringing?

	T:	I can tell you that up until I was maybe six years old, my world was a one-block area of my street that I grew up on, from corner to corner, that street, that block. All the adults in that block knew all of us, took care of all of us, so we had a very strong sense of community. I did not experience anything that was bad until I knew how to read. And downtown here on Palafox street, where the post office is, used to be a store called Sears and Roebuck— now it’s just called Sears— and that’s when I saw the first Colored water fountain, and the first Colored restroom. And I just knew that I had to drink out of a certain water fountain. One day down there, I was playing around when my parents were shopping, and I was hiding from them, and I got separated and lost from them. And I could not find them. So I began to cry, I walked out the door, and went down to the corner, and turned the corner and stood there crying, and the first and only Black police office in this city at the time, his name was Officer Cotton, saw me. Of course we were always taught our parents’ names, our phone number, our address. We just was taught that four-five-six years old. And so he asked me the information, I told





him, he put me in a police car and drove me home. So my first experience with the police was a positive one. Here’s a man who looked out for me, and took care of me, and got me home safe. But I never forgot those water fountains, I never forgot those restrooms, and I never forgot the fact that we grew up in that environment. And as I got older, I think they had more of an impact on the institutions of this county and this city, that shaped who we were, and affected how we grew up. When I was in the ninth grade, at that time, we had junior high, which was ninth, eighth, seventh. And then high school was tenth, eleventh, and twelfth grade.

	W:	What school was that?



	T:	I went to Wedgewood, which was an all-Black school in the eighth grade, but I went to Brownsville Junior High School in the ninth grade. At that time Brownsville only had seven Black children and I was one of the seven. And that particular year as a fourteen-year-old, was the worse year of my entire life. Even in the combat tours I’ve had, and all of the other controversies, that was absolute worst. I now know as an adult that what I suffered then, we didn’t have a name for it then, but I know now that I suffered PTSD from the way I was treated at that school. It was the worst year of my life. I never had more than two or three days absent from any school year from kindergarten through twelfth grade. That year, I had twenty-one days absence. I would always get sick on Sunday and couldn’t go to school on Monday, or if I went to school on Monday, I barely made it through the week where I was sick on a Friday. The treatment, the way we were ostracized just had a profound effect on me, that I say I will never, ever, go to a





predominant White school again in my life. So I went to the tenth grade, I went to Booker T. Washington High School, which was all-Black at that time.

	W:	So if it’s ok, do you mind expounding upon – you said you were one of seven Black students who attended that school, I mean with a career in the military, for you to highlight that as having one of the most, you know—

	T:	The worst.



	W:	The worst years of your life, I mean, is profound. And if it’s okay with you, do you mind sharing the experiences, and what it was life for a fourteen-year-old at that school.

	T:	I will say that I don’t remember any overt racism from the teachers and the faculty, but I do know there was a lot of apathy. They didn’t care if I learned anything or not. They treated me as if I was a piece of furniture. There was nothing overt from the faculty, but by their lack of caring, made it okay for the other students to go beyond what was right. On the daily basis. At our only-Black school, our behavior was nothing like I saw at that school. We were behaved. But at that school, they would shoot spit balls, and they had the old fountain pens, and they would flick ink on you, and that type of stuff. Getting hit in the back of the head with spitballs, getting called names, when you move from one class to the other class, you didn’t know if you were gonna get called names, or get bumped into the wall “accidentally” in purpose. Every single day for the entire school year, you go through that as a child, and no child should ever have to go through that. I’m getting emotional right now because just thinking about what I





had to go through, just the pain. And like I said I didn’t understand it then, but after serving in the Marine Corps for all these years, and with counseling, you begin to recognize some of these things. And so I now realize that PTSD is a real thing.

	U:	How you doing. Take this away, good luck.



	W:	And that’s why I say, that was— I’ve heard scored explode in Kuwait, I’ve seen sniper holes in the top of a tent that I slept in at the airport in Mogadishu, Somalia. I crashed on a helicopter in Turkey. I’ve been involved in a lot of things, but thing like I’ve experienced in one year in school. But I must say that because of the way my mother and father raised me and taught me, I never have become bitter. I never sought to take it out on someone, if that makes sense. If anything, my father, if I can share a story with you, at that same Sears and Roebuck, my dad took my everywhere he went with him. Everywhere. From the time I was a baby and my mom, I would lay me on a pillow in the front seat beside him. But one day as a young child, he was in line to get gas at Sears and Roebuck – they had a gas station in the back of the store, on the back block – and those big ol’ cars took a long time to fill up, so you would get in line and turn your car off. So when it was his turn to get gas, he had to cough, and when the car in front of him move off, as he started up, two White guys cut in front of him to get in line. And he confronted them, and said he was next. At that time all Black men were called “Boy” or “John”, and my father’s name is John. So they told him that they didn’t care, and they said some words, and I couldn’t hear it all, but my father walked back to the car, reached under the front seat, and took out a tire iron, and went





back, and was gonna confront these White guys. This was in the early [19]60s, in the South. That’s the kind of man he was. He was not gonna back down when he was in the right. And the attendant came out, and said to him, “Go ahead back to your car, John, I’ll get them out of here,” and he made them leave. But the only thing I could think about, is, “How did he know your name?” Because all Black men were called boy or john. That he would confront them was not the number one thing in my mind, it was “How did this other White guy know you?” Now, watching, but I just knew the kinda man my father was, so I was not surprised that he would stand up for himself. So, that’s the stock I come from. But my parents, my mother and my father taught me never to judge people by what you see, but they always to taught me to judge people as individual. They taught me that you can have good and bad from all walks of life, all colors. So I get that— my mother is just as strong. She was just as strong. So I get it from both sides.

Both my mother’s and my father’s families were all tight-knit, so I get all of that from my mother and my father, so that was the result I guess I had.

	W:	Indeed. You know the resolve, the resiliency that is a value that you often hear coming out of the time in light of everything, and I hear that echo in your story. What about you getting to high school? You talked about being one of seven in middle school, and behavior, and how that changed. You said you graduated in [19]69. Can you talk about your experience going into high school, especially coming out of middle school, and how that impacted you?

	T:	Well, there seven of us, but there was one young lady, one Black young lady, who never spoke to the other six of us. She had a couple of White friends, and





you would speak to her, and she would just look at you with this horrible look. It’s like, “I’m not one of you, even though I’m not the same color as you.” So there were six of us, and her. And the six of us recognized that it was six, and her. So we didn’t have nothing to do with her, because she didn’t want to have anything to do with us. Coming out of that environment and going back, it was only one year, going back to an all-Black school was like breathing. I like to swim and snorkel, and when you’re under water and you’re holding your breath, and when you’re in there too long, it’s a struggle to keep holding your breath, and when you break your service. Well, it was like breathing, going in the tenth grade to Liberty Washington Senior High School. The teachers knew my name. They called me by my name. They didn’t have an apathetic attitude toward me. They cared whether I did well. My principal, who I loved, Mr. Leroy Anderson, he knew my name, he knew my parents, and I remember one day, I wanted to grow an afro. So I’m growing my hair out, and he said to me, “You need to get a haircut. Do I need to call your mom or your dad?” The next day I got a haircut. Cause I didn’t want my principal calling. Cause in those days, the teachers would make house calls, like doctors used to do, because they went to the same church as you, they lived in the neighborhood that you lived in, they grew up with your parents. So they would make a house call. They would come to your house if you were cutting up in school, if you were acting up. So you never, ever wanted a teacher to call your house and tell your parents that you were not acting right. ‘Cause at that time teachers would paddle you in school, ‘til your mom, she’ll whoop you when you get home, and when dad come home, you get a third whipping, so you





get three for the price of one. But it was breathing. Teachers cared about me, I went to school with people that I could relate to. They grew up like me, so it was joyful.

	W:	Do you recall any teachers that had a most or significant impact in your time in high school?

	T:	There was a teacher, Mr. Kyle, Mr. Gillis, Mr. Haroborge, Ms. Louise Williams, Ms. Julia Arnold, yeah. I think what struck me was how smart they were. At that time, if there was a Black person on TV for whatever reason, everyone would start calling all their family and friends, “Turn to channel three, there’s a Black girl on, there’s a Black guy on.” But these were all college-trained professional teachers. And we had almost as many men as we had women at that time. But just how knowledgeable they were, which goes against the narrative of “they can’t learn, they’re inferior.” And just how smart they were, how intelligent they were, their use of the English language, the level of reading and writing and poetry— those things, to was just good to see role models that look like you at a time when you were binning to wanna forge your own path, I guess you could say. Because you know when you’re ten, eleven, twelve, it’s just a chore, it’s just going to school. But in high school, you know you only got a couple of years and you’re gonna be out there somewhere. And so here are people who are educated and trained, who look like you, who know your parents, who go to same church as you, involved in the same activities as your family… So they were impactful. They were serious about their craft, and they were serious about you leaning. It didn’t matter how many children we had in a classroom, they didn’t





worry about my class is too large, they made sure every child got it. That was impactful.

	W:	What subject did Mr. Gillis teach?



	T:	I can’t even remember. Mr. Gillis, I know Professor Andrews taught science. And I believe Mr. Gillis and Mr. Cowell probably taught English. Sorry, I’m not sure what class they right. I just remember them as men that I looked up to.

	W:	That male role model.



	T:	Mr. Boyd taught English. He was my homeroom teacher as well.



	W:	Did you do anything else in high school? Did you get any extracurricular activities?

	T:	You know, I was about making money even from as young as eleven years old.



One of my chores was to cut the grass at our house using my father’s lawnmower. So, I talked my father into buying me a lawnmower that I would pay him back for, and then I would cut our yard for free until I pay him back, then he could pay me to cut out grass. But I would go out and find other yards to cut. And I remember my father, the same look, smiling as he said, “Okay.” It’s like I’m talking him to something that was already my job, but “I’m gonna do this job for free, but now you’re gonna pay me dad,” and he’s like, “Yeah, okay, right.” So at eleven years old I got my first lawnmower, and I began to go all around. At that time, this neighborhood called Mont Clair, it’s like ninety percent Black, but at that time, it was all White, ‘cause Blacks couldn’t live there, and I went all through that neighborhood getting yards to cut every Saturday. So I was an entrepreneur like





my grandfather. And when I was fourteen, I talked my father into buying me a motorcycle, ‘cause I had gotten a paper route at twelve and thirteen, and he then bought me a Schwinn bicycle, which was the Cadillac of bikes. So I paid him back for the bike, but I won the larger route, and I had to have a motorcycle. My mother was dead-set against it, but he said, “No, if he wants it.” So I paid him back for that. I had a paper route. So that was the first motor cycle. The more I have now is number eleven, so I’ve been riding since I was fourteen. So my dad and my mom taught me and my sister that you could be or do whatever you wanted to do in this world. And I believed them. It wasn’t until that one year in junior high, I didn’t count that— it wasn’t until I basically left Pensacola in the military that I realized there were gonna be restrictions on me because of my color. And then people joke you from the South, cause everybody from the South is stupid, or dumb, which is another lie. But I just had an independent spirit. My oldest brother, he used to say that, “You’ve never been afraid of anything.” I mean, I would try anything once. It’s simply because I just believed that what my mother and father told was true, that I could do or be whatever I wanted to do or be. But there was one guy, one White guy, that had a significant on me. When I was ten years old, I had a growth on my chest, and Dr. Payne at Sacred Heart Hospital, there’s a building named for him. He was my physician as a ten-year- old, back in the early [19]60s. For whatever reason I guess he was impressed with me, and he asked me what I wanted to do in life. I said, “I wanna be a doctor.” He told my parents, he says, “If he wants to be a doctor, when it’s time for him to go to college, you let me know and I’m gonna sponsor him.” So, there





were kind people everywhere, you just didn’t always know it at the time. But my house for years was great, but I was always working paper routes, doing this or that, cause I wanted to make my own money, I wanted to buy my own school clothes, I didn’t want my parents to have to do all that. But my father died when I was in the tenth grade, I was fifteen. That was another very impactful event, because when you’re young, you think you’re parents are dumb, but my father died when I was fifteen. I’m sixty-seven now, he’s gotten smarter every day since he died, because I remember things that I do today is because what I saw him do, and what he taught me. He didn’t have philosophical talks, it’s just his actions. I remember when he died, and my mother pulling out the insurance policies, and the insurance that he had taken out made sure that she didn’t have to go to work, and my sister and I were taken care of, and the house we lived in was paid, and the care was paid. I got married at twenty years old, and the first thing I did, I bought an insurance policy. Twenty-year-olds don’t buy insurance policies, most people that are married today don’t have any insurance. But my dad did, so I did it. So whatever I thought my dad would do is what I did. And my son told me the same thing about me, so the legacy goes on. So he loved us— man, I miss him today. There was never a time in my life that I did not know how to drive a car, if that makes sense. When I was little, when we’d get a block or two from the house, I would sit on his lap, and I could barely hold the steering wheel, he’s holding it, but I think I’m driving, and mashing the gas and the brake. As I got taller, I would sit on the seat in front of him, when I could look over but still couldn’t reach the pedals. As I got older, he would move over, and I would sit





and I would drive the car home. So, I always knew how to drive a car, from four- five-six years old, because my daddy taught me. My dad was a wonderful man, he was an aviation mechanic on the base for over twenty years until he died, with a third grade education. My mother worked in a dry cleaners on base with a sixth grade education, until they got married. He didn’t want his wife to work, and so, when she got pregnant with me, she stopped working. He said, “It’s my job to take care of my family.” And that’s what he did, he took care of his family.

	W:	In life and death. T:	Amen.

	W:	Well, let’s talk about…seventeen, you’re graduating, the marine corps, being that entrepreneur, what was some of the influences or factors that lead you to joining and having a career?

	T:	I was an average student. I wasn’t an A or B student, I had mostly made Cs, an A in Driver’s Ed, an A in P.E., B every now and then, but mostly Cs. I was just an average academic-wise. Wasn’t on any of the sports teams at school. I was the vice president of the Thespian club, that’s an acting club. I had a lead in our senior class play. So I wasn’t any kind of a stand out in high school. I was just one of the children just at school. But I had always heard that the marine corps was the toughest branch of all. And I decided at seventeen years old, and one hundred thirty-five pounds, and I was two inches shorter than I am now, I was still growing, I wanted to join the best military service of all. At that time, Booker T. Washington Junior College had been absorbed by Pensacola Junior College, a





few years before. And I went out there and filled out an application, but I wasn’t feeling going to school. So, I joined the Marine Corps. I wanted to prove to myself, maybe you didn’t make the basketball or the football team, but you can make this team. And I cried some tears that night in boot camp, but I made it. My goal was to do three years and get out, come back to Pensacola, marry my sweetheart, and that would be it, but I got a Dear John letter, my third week of boot camp, she dropped me. So that was that. So I’m intending doing three years, and I wind up doing thirty years and thirty days. Always faithful.

	W:	Seems like you still got married, got married at twenty?



	T:	Yes. I was station at Camp Lejeune for the first time, and we were about to go on a Mediterranean deployment, and my platoon sergeant put me in. They had some orders to go to Marine Barracks, Bermuda, for security forces. So my platoon sergeant put my name in for it, and they looked at all the records and whatever, and I got chosen. So I went to Bermuda for two years. After being there a year, I met my future wife. We dated for about fifteen months, and we got married June 10th, 1972, and last month, we celebrated our 47th wedding anniversary. So my high school girlfriend dropping me was the best thing that ever happened to me.

	W:	She missed out on a good man, eh? [Laughter]



	T:	That’s for somebody else to say, not for me to say but I got the right one. [Laughter]





	W:	I’m sure your wife would say that. Congratulations. Talk about— I guess that would be about [19]69 to [19]70, joining the Marine Corps, you said you stayed in there for thirty years and thirteen days—

	T:	Thirty-one days. I retired August 31st, 1999.



	W:	What was – young, Black, man, you know. What was that experience?



	T:	The experience for me, on base, was wonderful. We were a team. You hung out with the people who you were most comfortable with, which for me would have been other Black guys in the platoon. But we didn’t have— I never remember a lot of controversy as far as race goes within the unit, out of all of the units that I was in. When we go off base, it was different story, cause then you go separate ways, separate parts of town. Separate dynamics. I mean that went all the way up until not too many years before I retired when we were deployed .We were one way on ship together, and off the ship, when were on Liberty, a different way. So I didn’t have bad experiences in the military as far as race go. I in fact enjoyed my time. I mean there were a couple of bumps in road every now and then, but I can truly say nothing significant. I did find out that one of my supervisors, I didn’t find this out till years later, was a complete racist, but we never knew. Cause they would do evaluations on us every six months, it’s called a “fitness report.” At that time, you just sign a blank one and they would fill it out and turn it in, so you’d never get to see what they wrote about you. But years later, we were able to get what’s called a microfiche, and you could go and put in the machine, and see your reports. And all of my reports from this guy were horrible. I didn’t realize how he was trying to sabotage me. I was his number one sergeant in the unit, that





kept everything together, but he rated me as the worst, and had the most terrible things to say. The Marine Corps changed this policy, that you were not allowed to sign blank reports. You must read them, and know what is said about you and how you’re ranked before you sign it, which was a great move. So as far as that go, I enjoyed my time, I got promoted fairly quickly. So I always has a mixture of races in my unit that I was in charge of. We lived primary in military housing around the world, so my children went to school where Black, White, Brow, Yellow, Red, all the races. So they grew up in a integrated society, where it was just common. So I truly enjoyed my time in the Marine Corps. I enjoyed the deployments, I enjoyed even the combat tours, because you got to practice your craft. But I was always, in my time, in charge of a group of people that I was responsible for. In Desert Storm, I had a company of three hundred seventy- seven men and women that I was responsible for. So I loved my time in the Marine Corps. I can’t say enough good things about it.

	W:	What unit, was the function of some of the duties that you did in the Marine Corps?

	T:	When I first joined, I was an infantry rifleman. I was a small cog in a big machine, as a seventeen year old out of boot camp. Turn eighteen, and in my first infantry battalion, I kinda moved up and I was what’s called a “team leader”. You have a squad of thirteen men, and you’ve got the squad leader, but then the other twelve divide into three teams, four each, and I was a teach member that became a team leader. So now at eighteen, I got three other guys that I’m responsible for, which most eighteen year olds can’t take care of themselves, much less take





care of three other men. So I was an infantryman with the security forces, I decide to stay in, I reenlisted, I went to finance, changed careers for thirteen years, I was in finance and got promoted up through the ranks. When I made First Sergeant, I went back to the ground side, when I made Sergeant Major, I got an aviation squadron, and when I retired, I was actually stationed here. I had the marines here, and we had all the marines here main side, we had a school in Fort Walton at the explosives on the school. We had a school in Panama City, Florida, which taught diving and underwater demolition and stuff like that. And then we had a school in Fort Rucker, Alabama, and a school in Meridian Mississippi. So I was in charge of the enlisted in three different states and all over the place. At peak times of the year, we had a little over three thousand enlisted under our command, during the slow times, like in the winter, maybe half that. Cause it was basically the school’s command, young people going through school for boot camp, and then going out into the marine corps to different command. So infantry, finance, back to the ground side, aviation. The three main parts of the marine corps, air, ground, and support, I’ve been in all three of them.

	W:	You know you mentioned— I guess as you transition out of the military— but you mentioned earlier on there was a contrast between life in the Marine Corps and out of the Marine Corps. We know civilian and military life is two different lives, but can you speak to those, and how did you balance the two?

	T:	You mean on base versus off base?



	W:	Yes, and extend that into retirement and leaving the military. I know always faithful, once a Marine always a Marine, but, you know?





	T:	Well, the thing about it is that we were on a team on base, work together, sleep together, eat together, deploy together, fight together. But when we went off base to go to a club or to a pool hall, or to a restaurant, Whites went to one side of town, Blacks went to a different side of town, because you’re still in a racially decided South. Camp was in North Carolina, South Carolina. And it was just understood. I didn’t go to their club, they didn’t come to my club. It was just the way it was. When we had people from other parts of the country that was in our unit, they didn’t understand that dynamic. For example, a White kid from California, and a Black kid from California, would go to any club they wanted to go to because it was a different dynamic. But now, they’re stationed in the South, and they’re like, “Why can’t we go here?”, “We just don’t do that.” “Well who said we don’t do that?” “Well, it’s just not done.” “Well why’s it not done?” ‘Cause they didn’t grow up, there wasn’t any rain in them. And so it was a different dynamic for them. And so when you have a Black kid from the West coast, being called the N-word or Boy, in the South, that’s a problem. It’s just like the movie Remember the Titans, the White kid from the West coast, his father didn’t want him to be in school in a school that racist cause they grew up in California. It was like when UCLA played Alabama for the first time in the early [19]70s. All those Black kids on UNLA brought pistols with them to the game, cause they didn’t know what the South was gonna be like. And so there’s a cultural shift, not only in race but in geography. But when we would go off, we would go our separate ways, and we would leave as separate. Me and my Black friends would go here, and maybe this White guy and his White friends would go there. But when we





came back, we were back as a unit again. I understood it, and I grew up in it, but it was never right somewhere down inside. It just didn’t seem right. And I would not let my children, when they were young and small, be that way. Now that was single— young marine, single, and then married, and then live in a whole different dynamic. But it depended on where you were stationed. If you were station in Virginia, like we were at Quantico, it was different dynamic there. If you were stationed in North Caronia, different dynamic. When you were stationed in California, a whole different dynamic. So it was geography as well as culture. So, that was my normal.

	W:	I’m curious to…how did the Marine Corps, men from different geographies, and I’m sure they have their process. You come from different geographies, different cultures, you go out into society, I go to this club, you go to a different club, but then you said when you came back you were as a team. As best as you can, how does that cohesion…is it forged in boot camp?

	T:	It’s forged in boot camp. It starts right there, where you got to rely on the person to your left and right. And especially in a combat situation, you have to trust the person on your left and right. You can’t look for them, you just have to know that they’re there. Because if there’s a weak link in the chain, the whole thing is broken. So, you trust that person on your left and right. The Marine Corps does a great job of taking away your individuality— Black, White, Brown, South, West Coast, East Coast, and you a Marine. You’re not Black or White, you’re Green.

And they used to say “We got light green Marines and we got dark green Marines.” So, those of euphemisms helped to gel. But the whole culture was





designed to strip away the “Civilianality,” the civilian part of you and raise you up in a Marine Corps environment, where you are a new family. I met a guy in my first tour in Bermuda, in the Navy. He was from North Dakota. He had never seen a Black person till he joined the Navy. He had heard about them— he had heard there were Black people somewhere. He said, “I had heard about Black people I hadn’t even seen one till I went to boot camp.” Can you imagine his culture shock? To see somebody look nothing like him, he had heard about them but never seen them. So, the military, in all branches, I guess I cant speak on the others, but I think that they all have a way of trying to strip away at that individuality and raise you up in one environment. But then they don’t have control of your life twenty-four hours a day seven days a week. So we see in today’s military we have military people who will be members of certain White supremacist organization, who then take their training back and use it against other Americans. So most civilians think that the military changes you fundamentally for the rest of your life. It may alter, but never changes you forever, cause there are some people that use their military training for bad.

W:  You mentioned kids, if you don’t’ mind. You’ve talked about their growing up, and growing up in a diverse world, diverse classrooms. What was the experience like for them?

	T:	I think their experience was great. They got to live in Japan for three years, my daughter at ten years old would walk off base by herself, catch the Japanese bus downtown, shop, buy a little toys or candy, catch the bus back on the base at ten years old, and we weren’t fearful for her. But on base, they were just raised up





with other kids that were their age, whose parents were also in the military. And then by living on the base like we were in a foreign country, we were our own enclave. Some of the families lived off-base in the Japanese society, but it could’ve been Italy, or France, or anywhere else in the world, you still have that American mindset. Their experiences with racism probably— I know my youngest so, when we were stationed in California, he had an encounter with the police. My son, two other boys, and a girl, all military children, were going to a party, all of them Black, and they’re going to a party in a neighborhood that was predominantly White, but where we live, we could afford to live in a nice neighborhood. So, I guess the police saw this carload of Black kids, and realized this may not be right. So the police got on their bumper and put their bright lights on, didn’t put the blue light, just the bright lights, so the kid driving the car is scared now, cause these are all sixteen-seventeen year old high school kids. So he’s nervous and he’s doing the speed limit, but his tire touched the yellow line, and when it did, they put the lights on. They made him get out of the car, get on your hands and knees, and crawl backwards in the dirty street. Now, they’re going to a party, they’re dressed up nice, clean-cut kids. Honor roll students, all four of them. Now they’re crawling backwards in a dirty street. And one of the police officers searched the girl, putting his hands all over her body like he shouldn’t have been, and frisking the boys, and then telling then to go on their way. They decided they were just going to go back home, but my son told me recently that my son— he’s forty-three— he said, “That’s just the way it was. We knew that’s how they were gonna treat us.” That was their normal. And when I





found about it, and they told me about after, I realized that my son could have been murdered right there in the street, and nothing would have been done because there were no cell phones then. And there would have been no repercussions then. And the same thing is happening now, in 2019. Or even with cell phones, people are getting off for murdering folk. And so, that was a violent reminder that no matter what you do, how you serve your country, you still have pockets of people. I go back to when I was a ninth grader, fourteen years old.

And now, here’s my son, who is fifteen and sixteen, is going through that so many years later.

	W:	That’s quite a different police experience. I don’t know if that was his first time, but that was quite a different experience than your first experience with a police officer.

	T:	Exactly. I never thought of it that way. And I will tell you this, I tend to drive too fast, in my cars and on my motorcycle. I’ve probably been stopped by police, highway patrol, sheriff, more than fifty times in my life, and I’ve never had a negative experience with a police officer.

	W:	Is that because of your military experience?



	T:	I got my first ticket on my first motorcycle at fourteen cause I cut a corner. That was my second experience with a police officer. One when I got lost, now I’m getting a ticket, but I did a violation, and he didn’t treat me any whatever, he just wrote the ticket. My third experience, I was seventeen, I was home visiting at the boot camp and had my brother’s car, and I was speeding down Cervantes Street





really fast. And so he wasn’t giving me a speeding a ticket, he was giving me a reckless driving ticket, so I had to go downtown to the police station. He never treated me bad, he put me on a holding cell, ‘cause he wanted to verify— ‘cause I told him my ID, I told him I was leaving the next day to go to North Carolina, and so he came back and let me out. He said, “Tell you what I’m gonna do. I’m gonna give you a speeding ticket, and not a reckless driving, cause if I get you a reckless driving, you gotta go to court, and lose your license. So I’m gonna give you a speeding ticket, you pay the fine, you go on your way.” So those were my first three experiences with the police. All positive. And like I said, I’ve probably been stopped at least fifty times and I’ve never had a negative experience as a Black man with the police officer. Now, my father taught me, if you ever get stopped by the police, especially at night, put your window down, turn on our inside light, and put both hands on the steering wheel, and don’t move until you are told to do something by the officer.

	W:	Wise advice.



	T:	And I told my sons that. And so, I do that now, even in the daylight. I put the window down, I put both hands on the wheel and I wait for the officer to speak first, and I always say, “Do you know how fast you were going?” “No officer, I know I was speeding.” I own up to it. I’ve never been treated discourteously by a police officer. I’ve never been called names, I’ve never been yelled at. And I give them the same respect they’re giving me. So I’ll say that, of the fifty I’ve probably been pulled over, I’ve probably only gotten about eight or nine tickets. I’ve been let go many more times than I’ve been given a ticket. But that is not everybody’s





experience. But that one negative that my son had can taint your whole – you’ll have to be really careful.

	W:	That’s a good story. Talk about, I guess, what has been life after the military?



You retired in [19]99.



	T:	Well, they used to have what’s called TAPs class, “Transition Assistant Program,” TAP. So you got to this week-long with the classes, and the first day or two the class is full, the third day people realize nobody’s keeping track who’s there, so they stop coming. By the end of the week there’s only a few of us there. I stayed all week. I heard every presentation. I took all the paperwork. I filled out all the forms, send everything in. And I retired. I got a call to teach high school.

So I taught Navy ROTC for nine years at Escambia High School. One of the best times I’ve had in my life. I’ve kept up with a lot of my students. I’ve done twenty- two weddings for my former ninth and twelfth graders, I’m doing a twenty-third one in October, and a twenty-fourth one next year. These kids are now twenty- five-thirty years old that I taught at fourteen. So I’ve kept up with a lot of them through Face book and other things like that. But transitioning out of the military, because I got off of this job, I was never really that nervous about employment or whatever. I was here on my own terms, just built a brand new house. So I didn’t have any difficulty with the transition. I’m more politically active and more community active now, involved with different groups, trying to bring social justice to our community because there are so many things that are still as bad they were for their fourteen year olds as Brownsville. There’s a lot of disparity in our community. So I’m trying to do things about that. But growing up in the





segregated South, with colored water fountains and restrooms, and then basically indoctrinated to believe you can’t do anything, you can’t be anything, but having two God-fearing parents, that had a big influence. And when you look at what goes on today— for example, every Thanksgiving and Christmas, all these companies put commercials on TV and they have all the employees out, have a happy holiday. I look at how many Black or Brown faces are in those commercials, and you don’t hardly see any. So we still have a hiring disparity. If you showed up with dreadlocks, you may be more qualified than eight other people, but because of your color or your hair, you’re not gonna get the job.

That’s the dynamic we live in in 2019. So what has changed from 1965 to 2019? A lot of good things. But why are we still fighting some of the same battles from fifty, sixty years ago? Why is there still an issue? Why can’t you be judged by the content of your character, not the color of your skin? We have people say, “oh, get a job, get a job.” Well, you won’t hire. You haven’t hired people who look like you, and you’re comfortable with. That’s wrong. And it makes me angry. I don’t like to watch the news because of all the negative things that I see. So even though we’ve made a lot of progress in this country, I can still see and feel things that I felt fifty, fifty-five, years ago. Sixty years ago. Somehow that doesn’t seem right. Somehow, there should be more progress. Somehow it should be better.

And any success that you may get individually, or collectively as a community, is viewed by some as being what you should have anyway. So, it’s perplexing and it’s aggravating, but you can’t give up, you have to keep working, keep fighting.





	W:	Being here in the Chappie James Museum, we are reminded of his mother’s eleventh commandment, thou shall not quit. And certainly resilience and grit has been a hallmark of the African-American experience.

	T:	I’ve told my children, “Quitting is not a consideration, giving up is not an option.” When I think about my great grandparents being slaves, about my grandfather – only reason he learned how to read and write was because he was half-White— when I look at all that they went through… I saw a t-shirt that says, “I am my ancestor’s wildest dream.” When I think of all that my grandparents and great- grandparents, and my parents, went through, for me to have what I have, there’s no way in hell I’m gonna quit or give up. Too many people have suffered too much. Too many people have given up too much. I am my ancestor’s wildest dream. I mean, there’s a friend of mine who retired from the army long way before I did. He was the first allowed to teach White kids in ROTC in the panhandle, at Crestview High School. I mean, I did a funeral for a young man, two years ago, buried in a cemetery off of Johnson Avenue. The cemetery has a fence down the middle of it right now. One side is for Black, and one side is for White. That’s right here in Pensacola right now. I can’t quit, I can’t give up. Too many people have sacrificed too much for me. And whatever success— I’m a homeowner, multiple homes, nice income, my wife and I do a lot of travelling all over the world, cruise, and all-inclusive, we go here, we go this country. Our passport has stamps from everywhere on it. Somebody died for me to get there. Somebody sacrifice, somebody was humiliated, and demeaned, to pay the way for me to be here. No way in the world I’m quitting or giving up, and I’m not





gonna let my family. I have three children, ten grandchildren, ten great-grand. They all call me poppa. I’m the man. I’m not letting them fail. Some of them have good fathers in their lives, and some of them don’t. Whether they do not they don’t, I’m there. I’m not gonna let them quit or give up. It’s not gonna happen.

	W:	Amen. In closing, you know you currently serve as a reverend. The church has always played an integral part in the community. Can you speak about what role do you currently serve as a reverend? How do you see the church with its legacy, impact in the community, and families and individuals today?

	T:	The church’s influence has been severely diluted. Years ago, the Black church was the center of the community. It’s like a bicycle tire, the hub of the tire is in the center, and everything else goes out the spokes from that center. The church was the center of everything— the church and the home. Everything else was on the outside. Now, the church has been relegated to being outside, and the relevancy of the church has been diluted through integration. So integration is great and bad at the same time. Integration has opened doors for us, but also has diluted our community. And then young people now have so many more things that they can do and be involved in, that they don’t have time for the church. When I was a child, we were in church for morning to afternoon. Now you got social media, and everything else, and the church is on the outside looking.

So as a pastor, I try to bring the church back in the middle. We go bowling, we’re going to the beach in a couple weeks to do baptisms. I put a cruise out there for Valentine’s Day in 2020 to get couples to go. So I’m trying to bring it back and have an influence. But as a spiritual leader, the thing I have the most difficulty, is





wanting more for my people than they want for themselves. I tell them, it does not matter how old you are, you can learn. When I got my associate’s, bachelor’s, and master’s degree, after I turned fifty, when I got my bachelor’s, there was a Black lady, seventy-eight years old. She wasn’t legally blind, she was totally blind, and she was getting two master’s degree at the same time, at seventy- eight. She has to drop out of school as a child to help, whatever, get married, and after having children, go back to school. And now here she is with a double master’s. A double master’s! Learning never stops, never quits, so when you see people that all they do— they get up, go to work, come home, go to bed – they’re just marking time. They’re not living their life. They’re living, but they’re living. So when you, as a pastor, what success for your people, and you know they can do better, be better, have better, and they don’t seem to want it? It’s frustrating. Very frustrating.

	W:	In closing, a most engaging conversation for the past hour, if you have any final words, anything that you would like to share in closing?

	T:	I think sitting here in the Chappie James Museum, I remember when I heard that Chappie James was being the first Black four-star General of any branch of the military in America, and I remember bragging about the fact that he was from Pensacola like I was. That was a big deal. That was hope for me. That was an awesome thing. I’m just grateful, and I’m humble, that I can be sitting here in his childhood home, just to talk about these things that we’ve been talking about for over an hour now. It’s a humbling experience, I’m grateful for all that God as blessed me to have, do, be, see, and go. But I’m not dead yet. So I’m gonna





keep going, doing and seeing, until He takes me home. I just pray and wish that younger people like yourself, what you’re doing and what she’s doing, Tony, I’m so hopeful and thankful, because a lot of people in my generation think that younger people don’t care, but that’s really not true. If they don’t know, how can they care? So It’s up to us to educate them, teach them. If you teach them, they’ll be alright.

	W:	You know, I think we will close with General Chappie James’ words that’s above us, it says, “the promotion, four stars is important for me, by the effect it will have on some kid on a hot sidewalk in some ghetto. If my making an advancement can serve as some kind of spark to some young Black or other minority, it will be worth all the years, all the blood and sweat it took in getting me.” Reverend?

Thank you for your lecture.



	T:	God bless you my friend. W:	God bless you. Thank you.

	T:	You’re welcome. My pleasure.









[End of Interview]





Transcribed by:

Rachel Hujsa



Audit-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

December 7, 2020

Final-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

January 13, 2021