AAHP 522;; Bryant, Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 522 Josephine Bryant African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Amanda Barrett on October 7, 2017 23 minutes | 14 pages



Abstract: Josephine Bryant attended the University of Florida from the summer of 1974 to December of 1977 and graduated with a degree in Business Marketing with a minor in finance. She also joined the Delta Sigma Theta Sorority. In this interview Bryant talks about her experiences of going to the University of Florida and how it has changed since then given the political climate in this time.



Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Black Alumni; Gainesville; University of Florida]























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 522

Interviewer: Amanda Barrett Interviewee: Josephine Bryant Date: October 7th, 2017







	BA:	Hello, my name is Amanda Barrett, and I’m with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program on October 7th, 2017. I am at the 2017 Black Alumni weekend event with—

	BR:	Jodi Bryant.



	BA:	Thank you for agreeing to do this interview. And, again, for the records, can you please spell your name?

	BR:	J-­O-­D-­I, B-­R-­Y-­A-­N-­T.



	BA:	Thank you. Just starting off, let’s just get familiar with the background. Like, what year you were born? What city?

	BR:	Okay, sure. I was born in August of 1956, and I was born in Quincy, Florida and went to the public schools in that particular location.

	BA:	All right. Did you attend the University of Florida?



	BR:	I did. I attended in the years of the summer of 1974, and I graduated in December of 1977.

	BA:	That’s great. What was your major?



	BR:	I majored in Business Marketing with a minor in Finance.



	BA:	Okay, and with that degree, how did it help you guide your way to the career that you’re doing now?





	BR:	I always knew I wanted to major in Business, because my father had his own business. He had taught me a lot of the basic skills, so I used that to propel me into a very long career with Bank of America.

	BA:	Okay, that’s great. What made you come to UF? Like, what attracted you? What was your reason you came to UF over going to an HBCU?

	BR:	I come from a large family of [inaudible 1:41], and I knew my family, at that time it was eight of us, I knew at that time, my parents could not necessarily afford to send all of us to college. So, we were encouraged to win scholarships, which I did, and then the other was through work-­study and loans. One of the things that I really enjoyed with the University of Florida, I got a chance to come to the campus and kinda see it, and they were the first to respond quickly back to accept me and to offer the additional funds that I needed. So, that made my decision [Laughter].

	BA:	Me, too! [Laughter]



	BR:	Okay! That made my decision.



	BA:	That’s great. At your time here with the University of Florida, were you involved with organizations, clubs, any outside activities?

	BR:	Yes. We did a lot of community work just with the local areas within Gainesville. We had hooked up with the church and did some community involvement there. Then, we worked a little bit with the soccer club, and then I joined Delta Sigma Theta Sorority Incorporated. It is a Christian organization that is focused primarily





on service, and that attracted me to that organization. So through that we were able to touch a lot of lives within the community and really make a difference.

	BA:	That is great, and were you particularly involved with Black student organizations?

	BR:	Yes. We were part of the Black Student Union and, at that time, the multicultural Black Affairs they used to call it. I knew it’s gone through a couple of names, but we were a part of that organization and supporting the projects that they sponsored;; going to the meetings, providing feedback, and from that perspective.

	BA:	That’s great. Now, coming back to UF, do you see any significant changes primarily due with, like, race relations? Do you see the Black culture more prevalent than it was before? Do you think the Black community is now together? Do you think it’s more separated? What do you see the difference is?

	BR:	Well, during the year that I came in [19]74, it was not too long from the time that they were forced to allow Blacks to enter the University of Florida, and certainly, the work that Virgil Hawkins had done in continuing to press his way after submitting his admission early on. It took twenty-­seven years before he actually could graduate from this law school. So, when we came on board, we knew that the race relations weren’t that great in [19]74, but again, we were committed for the journey as he was. So, we felt like we kind of owed it to Virgil. He stuck with it for twenty-­seven years, certainly we could stick with it for four and do what we needed to do. So, as a result of that, it was imperative that we connected with each other. We learned each other, we helped each other, we provided for each





other, and the ones that were here made sure that we had support. If we had problems with a subject, they volunteered to tutor us, volunteered to get us resources. So, as a result of that, we were forced by nature to be very close-­ minded. Here, while the percent of Blacks has increased some — it’s not nearly where it should be — and there’s some connection, but the strength of the Black groups is growing, and I’m happy to see that. I’m happy to see that they recognize that they have to stick together, they have to support and elevate each other. Is there more that this school could do for them? Absolutely! Absolutely. Is there more that they can do on the diversity side? Absolutely. I was in a meeting this morning with President Fuchs, and he indicated that he is going to hire, he has a new position open, and it’s going to be around diversity: a Chief Black Diversity Officer. I think that’s what separates excellent schools that are really serious about their diversity. So, to hear that come from him and to say that he now is going to have that position open, they’re going to be looking seriously, that, to me, kind of propels and puts it on a different level than it had been before.

	BA:	That’s awesome. Now, in your personal opinion, you don’t have to answer this, but out of curiosity, do you think President Fuchs will meet the expectation of making non-­Whites, people of different backgrounds and nationalities, feel more comfortable, and do you think he will be able to recruit more people to come to the University of Florida?

	BR:	I think the jury is still out, because until you can get the person in that position, and they get the resources that they need to really run into a program, I think he has done some early things to show commitment, but the jury is still out until you





can actually see the position being filled, and not pulled, and until you could see who they bring in, and until you could see the resources that they’re going to get this person to do the job. I think the jury is still out.

	BA:	All right. And besides that, what else do you think, in your opinion, that the University of Florida could do more for the Black community?

	BR:	I think any time you can educate people about our culture, and about us, so that they can have better communications with us versus shut down or pretend things are a certain way. I think that is powerful, and I think that’s the most impactful thing you can do, is to continue to educate and take moment by moment and allow individuals to come together, to share, to love, even if there’s an issue that we disagree with — to do it in a respectful way. I think ongoing communication and engagement is vital.

	BA:	I agree. During your time here at UF, did you experience anything significant?



Whether something was said to you, or done to you, or someone else’s action? It could be either good or bad.

	BR:	I’ve had both. I’ve had professors who act as if they didn’t want to do their job in sharing information and knowledge out of the class or something like that, and I had to press the issue, which I’m not short of being vocal. And then I’ve had other students that have the air that they were better, or that they thought they were smarter, but I was an A, B honor roll student, just like them, working. And I was determined. So, yes, you have those issues, but I learned that nobody can make me feel less, unless I allow them to, and I was not about to do that.





	BA:	That’s great. You know, during some of the events that happened to you, how were you able to overcome that? Did you have a mentor? Was it a spiritual thing, or did you have a group of people you surrounded yourself with?

	BR:	I come from a background of over-­comers. My daddy was the first to, in a very small town, start his own business. And after he had asked for a raise with his current White employer, and he said no, when my daddy was the business, was the mark of this particular business. And so, he said he would be smart, and he would save until he could get all the equipment he needed to before he resigned, because he had a family. And he did that. And would you know, as soon as he left, then they wanted to give him a raise, which is exactly what had asked for in the beginning. He said absolutely no, so even though he knew it was going to be tough, because the guy had said some things that weren’t true, to try to force him to come back, but my daddy was in it for the long haul. So, I come from a line of over-­comers with my dad, and my mom, and so forth. And then I had their support, and I had the support of my church, and I had friends that would not let me fail. So I thank all of that, and God has certainly has always made the difference in my life with all of that that helped to prepare me to make it all the way through.

	BA:	That’s great. And I also want to mention: when you were here at the University of Florida, were you active outside of UF, like more in the Gainesville community.

For example, like east side of Gainesville?



	BR:	Only if the Deltas had projects over there. If we were doing something concerning voting, trying to educate the kids, if there was something to do with





women, that we were trying to make an impact in their confidence. Only through that organization.

	BA:	Do you ever wish that you were more active in the Gainesville community, besides UF involvement?

	BR:	Not really, because that season, it was important for me to get my education first, so that I would have good, strong grades, and that I would be able to get a job, because I knew the time would come where I could invest more time and energy in Community. We have to keep things in perspective. If you’re active in Community, but you’re not doing the lesson and passing your courses, then you’re really not helping the greater community. So, I had to keep myself focused academically. Do some things, but to make sure that I had the right balance and the right priority.

	BA:	Okay. I’m gonna go in the topic of your personal life. Where did you live while you attended UF?

	BR:	I lived a lot of my time in various dorms. I started in Murphree dorm. I don’t even know if they have that anymore. I lived down there in Hume, and all that area.

Then I went to Jennings. I was in Mallory for a while, then I moved off campus.



	BA:	And coming back to UF — UF has changed over the years, especially because we’re building a lot of buildings. What’s the differences you see in that?

	BR:	There is projects. Would say they are growing the population of students.



Because when I was here, it was maybe twenty-­eight, thirty-­thousand max. Now, you guys are in the fifties. You know? So, the growth certainly has been there;;





the buildings and the funds. You have technology, science, engineering, which is a big focus from a global perspective. So, that’s there. So, I think all of that is good, but again, trying to ensure that you have adequate representation from all ethnic groups is still vital. So, in one manner it’s good to see the growth, but we know that it’s about people, not buildings.

BA:  That’s true. And you don’t have to answer this question, but when you attended, how was your tuition paid for? Was that out of pocket? Loans? Did UF help pay some of your tuition? Scholarships?

	BR:	It was a combination. I had earned a couple of scholarships locally from my town. I worked. I had work-­study. I had a couple of grants. And then I had a few loans. So, it was a combination.

	BA:	Okay. Some of the friends that you made here at Gainesville—do you still talk to them now? Do you still get together? Have some gatherings?

	BR:	My top three friends that I had when I came, forty years later, we’re still friends. And we came here to this celebration because we hadn’t been here together. Each person had been, but not together. So, that is the one asset that I cherished, that I made some really good friends, life-­long friends. And to this day, we communicate, we talk, we try to connect and see each other. Yes.

	BA:	That is good. And with another aspect of your personal life, did you attend church? Was it hard for you to find a church to get involved with? Was it hard because you probably didn’t have a ride?





	BR:	I didn’t have transportation like some kids. I was not blessed at that time to have transportation. When people would say, “I’m going to church,” or “Do you want to go?” I would always want to go and want to fellowship, because I believe in God and just needed to make that connection. So, I went when I could.

	BA:	All right. What is it like to meet different alumni from the different years? BR:	What?

	BA:	What is it like to meet the different alumni from different years? Like today’s event.

	BR:	It’s fabulous, because the younger ones who were in the meeting this morning, the brunch, and some of them was talkin’ about, “Is that happening?” and they mentioned The SIT. And then they said, “Y’all, remember what we’re saying?” It depends which SIT you’re talkin’ about, because in our area, the SIT was Little Hall. And they were saying now the SIT is somewhere else. I said, “Okay, y’all moved the SIT,” but that’s what we used to call it. So, that was funny. It’s wonderful to engage with them, and it’s always so fascinating to hear their accomplishments. That warmed my heart that they’re vital, and they’re doing and achieving things. So, to hear from them and some of their achievements, and to see them so active in their sport for ABA — I just love that. So, I enjoy the engagements and the conversations. It was nice to see the older people who I knew. It was wonderful to meet so many people.





	BA:	That’s great. That’s great. I’m gonna mention some of the events to see if you remember some of these. Do you remember in 1991 the Black Awareness Movement?

	BR:	I don’t, because I wasn’t here. BA:	Okay.

	BR:	I left in December of [19]77. So, probably none of those. [Laughter] BA:	What about the television series of Roots?

	BR:	Yes, of course. Of course! Yes. Everybody was glued to the T.V. Okay! BA:	[Laughter] I’ve never seen the original one.

	BR:	Oh my goodness, you must.



	BA:	I know. Okay, so how was it for you when you saw that?



	BR:	It brought back a lot of emotions. You know? You learn some of that, but to see it chronologically captured in that way — it just made you mad, in a sense, but also very hopeful that our people have that depth of commitment to hang in there and never give up. So, I think we have that from our ancestors. That “never give up” type of spirit. And that came out really good. And then it made people want to connect and learn about your ancestry in whatever way you could.

	BA:	All right. Are you proud to be a Florida Gator? BR:	I am! I am.

	BA:	And why?





	BR:	Because I feel like I earned it. At the time when I came, it wasn’t very receptive for this university, because they were forced to allow Blacks to come in.

Because, again, when Hawkins — they wanted to pay him to go to another school. He refused, and by him standing firm, he opened up a doorway, too. Who knows how long it might’ve taken? So, I’m proud to be a Gator in terms of what it represents today, not so much what it represented in the past.

	BA:	Okay. Do you have any regrets? Something that you wish you would have done while you were at the University of Florida?

	BR:	I wish I really would have gotten more involved with Student Government, and really used my voice in a different manner. So, I would say that would be my only regret.

	BA:	All right. And, when you graduated, you probably may not know the specific number, but roughly was it a handful, a few, or some Black students who graduated with you?

	BR:	No. There were at least eight that I was aware of that was in the Business area. May not necessarily have been Marketing or Finance, but in the Business area when I graduated.

	BA:	Okay. I don’t know if you’re allowed, because you were telling me you were a part of a sorority. I don’t know if there’s certain things you can and cannot tell me, but how did that help you along the journey, being here in the University of Florida?





	BR:	It became special, because here were a group of collegiate women who had similar values, a similar mission around service, around helping. And it was brought together by the five thrust mission about organization. So, that became a good connect point that I could reach out to these individuals. So, it was a very special bond.

	BA:	Okay. And here at UF, did you go to Gator Growl? Homecoming? BR:	Yes, girl. I was all up in that and went last night! [Laughter]

	BA:	Oh my God. Like how was it?



BR:  It’s like a major pep rally where you just get pumped up. It’s good to see the team come on board. Of course, they had Snoop and the other lady, Vaya. Vaya, V-­A-­ Y-­A. I had issues, she sing that song.

	BA:	Oh yeah. Daya. Something like that, yeah.



	BR:	Yeah, Daya. Okay. But anyway, we had a wonderful time. I did the football games, because of course when I was here, that was our first Black quarterback! You have Don Gaffney. And then after Don left, then Turly Count who’s out there now was the second Black quarterback. So, those were monumental times, so we had to support them. So, we went to the games and all that and rallied behind them. And all the Homecoming stuff, you know, Parade and all that. We really got into it. [Laughter]

	BA:	That’s amazing. Were you involved with any protests on campus while you were at UF?





	BR:	I wouldn’t call them official protests, but we did do a lot in distributing materials for individuals, to educate them around particular protest activities.

	BA:	All right. And before I wrap this interview up, is there something else that you’d like to mention, like I didn’t ask you? Something else that was significant?

Something of your contribution at UF that a lot of people don’t know?



	BR:	I think when I walk this campus, and I see the Hall of Fame — I went up on the third floor, because during that time, I just wanted to see the wall. And while the wall started out, again, with very few Blacks that were in the Student Government, and they’re recognizing that since, it was good to see that we kept trying, we kept engaging, we kept going into leadership. So, I think that’s the essence. It’s that we have to always have a place at the table where our voice is heard, where we can talk about fundin’, and we can try to make sure for our community that we’re supportin’ and giving our very best.

	BA:	I’m glad that you mention that, like an idea came to my mind. Why don’t we have a Black Hall of Fame or something? That would be awesome!

	BR:	That would be awesome.



	BA:	Is there anything you’d like to add before I wrap it up? BR:	No. Thank you so much for this time! It’s been great! BA:	Thank you for interviewing, I appreciate it.

	BR:	Yes! Sure. [End of Interview]







Transcribed by:

Bianka Ramirez

May 30, 2019

Audit-­edited by:

Jennifer Romero,

June 7, 2019

Final-­edited by:

Sandra Romero

May 13, 2020