AAHP 121; Ayers; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 121 Jackie Ayers

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on September 3, 2010 43 minutes | 19 pages



Abstract: This interview was conducted at the 2010 Black Alumni Weekend at the University of Florida. Jackie Ayers was born and raised in Nashville, Arkansas, and then went to school in Essex, Missouri. He describes some of his experiences growing up, as well as his family history. He explains that he ended up at UF because he was recruited by Rod McDavis, who insisted that UF was the “Stanford of the South,” and then he worked a variety of administrative jobs at UF for a number of years. He also speaks highly of what it was like to work with former UF president John Lombardi, and he shares his reflections on the student murders in Gainesville in 1990. Dr. Ayers also reconciles his experiences with racism at UF and wider Gainesville with his belief that UF offers a strong foundation for current and future students.





Keywords: [African American History; Texarkana; University of Florida]













































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 121

Interviewee: Jackie Ayers Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: September 3, 2010



W:  This is Marna Weston with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program on September 3, 2010 in Emerson Alumni Hall at the Lowe Family Library with Dr. Jackie Ayers for Black Alumni Weekend. Dr. Ayers, thank you very much for taking the time to answer some questions about this weekend and yourself.

A:   Sure my pleasure.



W:   Could you please spell your full name from birth?



	A:	Jackie, J-A-C-K-I-E. Lewis, L-E-W-I-S. Ayers, A-Y-E-R-S.



	W:	What is your date of birth? A:	January 19, 1953.

	W:	Where were you born? A:	Nashville, Arkansas.

	W:	Nashville, Arkansas. Can you tell me a little bit about Nashville, Arkansas? Where is it geographically located? I’ve never heard of Nashville, Arkansas.

	A:	I guess it’s in southwest Arkansas. It’s about fifty, sixty miles from the Texas border between Arkansas and Texas.

	W:	So would you call that the Texarkana region? A:	The Texarkana region, yes.

	W:	And is that the Red river? I don’t know a lot about Texas so you have to orient me.

	A:	I don’t know a whole lot myself. I was two years old when I left there, so I don’t know.

	W:	Okay. Who were your mom and dad?





	A:	Ralph and Lou Maggie Ayers.



	W:	Where were they originally from?



	A:	My mom was originally from Nashville, and dad is originally from southeast Missouri where I came from before I came here.

	W:	Can you tell me a little bit about your dad’s parents, his mom and dad?



	A:	They were farmers in southeast Missouri, owned a small farm there. That’s pretty much what they did throughout their lives.

	W:	Did you have the opportunity to be close with your grandparents growing up?



	A:	Yes, we spent pretty much every Sunday there for Sunday dinner, and after church did a little bit of work with them on the farm and those kinds of things.

	W:	What kind of things did you do on the farm? What kind of chores did you have? A:	Planting cotton, corn, beans; typical farm type things. Driving tractors, grating,

disking. Whatever needed to be done we just kind of did it.



	W:	Growing up in North Carolina with my grandmother I picked cucumbers, hand and tied tobacco and cropped that. Did you do any tobacco in Arkansas?

	A:	No tobacco. Primarily wheat, corn, beans, soy beans those kinds of things. A little bit of watermelon is the closest to the vegetables kinds of things.

	W:	What were your dad’s parents’ names? A:	Ralph and O’Dell Ayers.

	W:	Excellent. How about your mom’s mother and father, those grandparents? A:	Okay. From that side it’s Nelson, so it was Mydell and Viola Nelson.

	W:	Where were they from?



	A:	They were from Arkansas of the Nashville area.





	W:	Terrific. Do you have brothers and sisters? A:	I have one brother.

	W:	What’s his name?



	A:	His name is Rufus Ayers and he’s living in St. Louis, Missouri. W:	Okay, and you’re married.

	A:	Yes.



	W:	How long have you been married and could you talk about your wife for a moment?

	A:	Sure. I’ve been married for twenty five years last Tuesday to— W:	Congratulations.

	A:	Thank you. To Shirley Clarke Ayers who I met here back at the University of Florida in [19]79.

	W:	Wow, what were the circumstances under which you met?



	A:	Well the circumstances was is that Dr. Rosie Bingham, who was on staff here, and I were friends, and I had gone home for the weekend and left my stereo equipment at her place. When I came back to pick it up Shirley was there, who was here to interview for a position at the University of Florida in minority affairs at that time. We kind of met and hit it off. In her opinion dated way too long, but got married about five years later. [Laughter].

	W:	Was it kind of love at first sight would you say?



	A:	Actually it was. After the first weekend of meeting her and spending time with here I actually called my brother I think that Tuesday and told him I found





somebody that I was going to marry. Now she don’t believe that, but that’s actually what happened.

	W:	Okay. I’ll have to get Rufus in to tell that—your side of the story. A:	[Laughter].

	W:	Do you have children?



A:  Yes, two a boy and a girl. They live in Kansas, Missouri. My son’s a math and biology teacher, a combination of computer science and engineering stuff. My daughter is a physician assistant.

	W:	What are their names? A:	Gavin and Sonya.

	W:	Any grandchildren? A:	Two.

	W:	One from each or two from one and the other is still working on it? (Laughter). A:	Two from my son and his wife. They’re like nine and eleven, Gavin Jr. and Kia. W:	You beamed all of a sudden, you’re radiating. Do you like being a grandfather?

	A:	It’s been a real joy being a grandfather. I’ve had some of my better moments in life with my experiences with them. I usually take them with me whenever I travel for conferences, and those kinds of things. They come and join me. It’s been kind of our way of spending time together and seeing the country together. Provide you with some pretty unique, memorable experiences.

	W:	Awesome. What is your earliest memory of education?





	A:	My earliest memory of education would probably be the first day I had to stand out on the road with my folks to get on the bus to go to my one room schoolhouse back in Missouri.

	W:	What part of Missouri was that? A:	That was southeast Missouri.

	W:	The town closest would be?



A:  The town closest would have been Essex or Dexter, Missouri in that part of the country. Being in a classroom with probably little over one hundred folks or less with grades one through eight, six in one room, red brick schoolhouse.

W:  Literally one room, okay. Do you remember who your favorite teacher at the one room schoolhouse was?

	A:	I don’t know if I had a favorite teacher. I was only there for about little over a year- year and a half, and then they decided to close the school and merge us into another larger school.

	W:	What was the name of the first school? Then what was the name of the merged school?

	A:	I don’t remember the name of the first little school. The next one we went to was Essex Elementary or something like that, which had grades one through six. That much I do remember.

	W:	Did you have a favorite teacher at that school? A:	Yeah, Mr. Washington.

	W:	And why do you recall Mr. Washington? What did he teach and what did you remember about him?





	A:	I remember about him was that in anticipation of integration he took a bunch of us aside for about a year and made sure that we were well-prepared to move into integrated schools, which happened, I think, when I was in like the sixth or seventh grade. He was very kind. He drilled in our heads the need to, how do I say, be not only good as, but try to be at least one step better than our other classmates that we were preparing to work with. He took us aside and caught us up on algebra, some biology, and chemistry stuff so that when we hit the integrated school we could hit the floor running if you will.

	W:	Again the smile you remember it fondly. Mr. Washington had a strong impact on you.

	A:	Yeah, one of those kind of educators that in many way helped set the stage for me to use my OCD in a very productive way. [Laughter]. I’m just kidding.

	W:	So you leave elementary school did you go to a combined middle school or high school?

	A:	Well we went to a middle school which had I think it was sixth, seventh and eighth grade if I’m recalling correctly. That was our first series of schools of being in integrated schools. The elementary school was an all-Black elementary school. I started out in what they called one of their semi-upper level classifications they used to have us in these stratified classes of one, two, and three. I started out in there. All of the Black folks were in either two or three. I was in two, and then after a semester they moved me to one, which was literally an end of one. I was the only African-American student in my class, which kind of stayed that way all the way through high school from then on out pretty much at





that level. That was an interesting experience to say the least. It was a good experience. It kept me educationally focused in a competitive mindset.

[Break in Recording]



	W:	Continuing the interview with Dr. Jackie Ayers. We’ve talked about your family, early education and middle school. Can you talk a little bit about high school? Where did you go and what was that like?

	A:	I went to Richland High School which is in Essex, Missouri. It’s kind of a small high school. I think we had five, six hundred students in the high school. I was in a class of about sixty folks from ninth grade through twelfth grade. Pretty much in my class level, as I indicated earlier, I was the only African-American student.

Our class was like the IB class if you compare that to our IB programs here at Eastside. I was very active in sports, basketball, track, baseball; those kinds of things.

	W:	Were you involved in any non-academic clubs: student government or chess club, debate team? Anything like that?

	A:	I used to be vice-president of my class, and president of our FFA, which was Future Farmers of America.

	W:	Why that club?



	A:	It was one of those active clubs that we had. Whatever club we had I was pretty much involved in it whether it was that or student government kinds of activities. We didn’t have a whole bunch of them, but that was one of the national organizations they had available. We were from farming country so everyone





was pretty much from a farming kind of background to some degree, so it was one of the more popular clubs to be a part of.

	W:	So you had plenty of opportunities to exercise leadership. Sometimes I’ve spoken to people during the era of early integration and because of differences in the school and maybe being a person of color would have excluded a person from those kind of opportunities. What was it about your leadership or learning about living a community and exercising leadership that gave you that success to be included in leadership positions—to be elected by your peers and have those experiences?

	A:	I think one of the things was is that for some strange reason I’ve always had the natural ability to get along with folks. Even before I got a doctorate in psychology, folks just kind of gravitated to me with issues and problems and concerns. I was there to listen and be supportive. As a result of that I kind of came away with a reputation of being a friendly and likeable guy, but also someone who seemed to come across with some level of wisdom beyond my age. I never lost an election if I ever was nominated to run for something. I just kinda always won.

Academically I excelled as well. That was kind of my ticket for folks not to—what should I say? Let me into the clubs if you will. I probably shouldn’t say this, but I’ll say it anyway. I used to always say that if they did not let me in I would keep the curb so high they had to let me in.

	W:	[Laughter]. So I’ll give you a break if you do the right thing. That’s an interesting definition of leadership. What is your personal definition of leadership if you were to articulate it?





	A:	My personal definition of leadership is someone who genuinely has the ability to see the big picture and to know that leadership is really about the people that you’re trying to lead, and help achieve things. It’s really not about you. If you can keep your focus on caring and taking care of the needs of others yours get taken care of as well. And using an approach that allows other folks to feel like they were involved in the beginning of the process with whatever ultimate decisions that comes out. I’ve always saw myself from a leadership standpoint, not necessarily as the person in charge, but the person who was able to get people to come together, to work as a team to get stuff done. In most of my supervisory roles people knew that I was the director, but the reality was they worked with Jackie, not for Jackie. That’s just kind of the way I’ve gone for as long as I can remember in any leadership role.

	W:	Well now we’re almost at the University of Florida to speak about Black Alumni Weekend and you wear your orange and blue proudly. You got the logo, you’re decked out and ready for the weekend. I just want to ask you about your journey to get to the University of Florida, your collegiate education, and your graduate studies, and what did you focus on, and how did you come to Gainesville.

	A:	My first round in undergrad was at the Southeast Missouri State University, which is southeast—

	W:	I’ve been there. A:	Oh you have?

	W:	Yeah, I know where SMS is. We had the national debate finals there in the [19]90s, so I had the chance to visit that campus.





	A:	Oh! Okay, excellent. I went there right out of high school.



	W:	They’ve changed the name haven’t they? It’s something else now. A:	Right.

	W:	I can’t recall what the new name is.



	A:	Southeast Missouri—I just looked at this. It’s university now. They took the state part out of it. Southeast Missouri—but anyway. I should know better. I just got an email from their alumni association last week. I started there in [19]71, and got an undergraduate degree in Psychology with a minor in Biology and Chemistry. At one point I was a pre-med student, but I had an opportunity to go to a psychiatric hospital and work with some developmentally disabled kids and kinda got addicted to psychology. I got into that area. After I graduated from there I went on to get a Master’s in Guidance Counseling or Counseling Psychology. I went to work in Student Affairs as Associate Director of financial aid. Then I joined the Counselor Education faculty there for about a year. Then that process went off to a conference and ran into a Dr. Rod McDavis who actively recruited me here instead of going to Stanford. He kind of let me believe this was the Stanford of the south.

	W:	He was a great education dean and now he’s president of his own college in Ohio.

	A:	Absolutely right. I was looking around for doctorate programs in counseling or clinical psychology. He recruited me here and the university sent me off on a paid educational sabbatical to go and do some of my doctorate work with the intent of coming back and contingent of teaching on the faculty.





	W:	Now you said he recruited you. What was it about what he said or did or involved you that ultimately led you to say, “Yes, I think that’s a good place”?

	A:	It was really kind of how personable he was, and how he made me feel like I could come here and I could be successful. The University of Florida really wanted me to be here, because they were really actively trying to recruit specifically minority students. The program that they had here that he was involved with offered a unique combination at that time. It was a joint degree program in both Counseling Education as well as Counseling Psychology, which allowed me to be able to get the doctorate level educational training to go back and do some teaching stuff, as well as being able to get licenses as a psychologist. It provided me with the opportunity to be an independent practitioner. And then when I came down here to the University of Florida of course the beautiful campus and then the weather and there were sort of some similarities. I looked at the way the campus looked and the atmosphere at that time compared to Stanford, and so I decided to come here. So, yeah, that’s how I ended up here. In that process my desire to practice medicine never left me. I was able to graduate not only with my PhD in Counseling Psychology, but I was able to put together a kind of a unique joint degree program with the College of Medicine to graduate with a joint degree in College of Medicine’s physician assistant program and get an undergraduate degree in a Bachelor’s of Medicine here. That’s pretty much it. I’ve done a little bit of it all at the University of Florida in terms of being an undergraduate student, graduate student. I’ve been on the faculty, because I started teaching right after I graduated from the P.A. school in





the College of Medicine’s physician assistant program. Then I moved to the student healthcare center, the infirmary as a psychologist. After a few years in that program I decided I wanted to focus more on direct clinical service stuff. I did that as a psychologist for two or three years, and then kind of out of the blue after a professional development leave I got drafted in terms of being the director of our student mental health service in [19]90 or [19]91. I did that up until this past May and then switched over to being director of employee health services for the University of Florida. I do now which includes our occupational medicine, workers’ compensation, and employee assistance program.

	W:	Do you feel you made the right choice? Was this the right place for you at the right time?

	A:	Absolutely. When I look back at it, it turned out to be a natural fit for me. A part of that was because the University of Florida offered so many opportunities that for somebody who was addicted to education this was the right place to be. I could study in as many different areas as I wanted to. I was able to put together a combination of educational products, if you will, that met all of my needs and then some.

	W:	Because you were here in the [19]90s I got a couple of names I want to throw out. Just give me your reactions. John Lombardi.

	A:	To be perfectly honest with you, loved me some John Lombardi. John was the kind of guy, as I will quickly tell folks, that if I had a need or an issue I could walk over to his office. I was always welcome and the door was always open. He usually greeted with a handshake and a hug. I haven’t had too many presidents





that were that warm and fuzzy. That was my relationship with both him and Sorenson. They were just those kinds of folks. He was great.

W:  Dr. Sorenson went on of course to become the President of the University of Alabama and at South Carolina. Have you kept in good communications with them since they’ve left the University of Florida?

	A:	Not as much as I probably should have. I mean I’ve run into them a time or two here and there during a conference, or whenever they’ve entered back into town from time to time. But yeah Lombardi, when I see him, or I ran into some folks from LSU who had run into him.

	W:	Dr. Lombardi you mean? Yeah, he’s the Chancellor of the Louisiana system now.



	A:	From that standpoint we still know each other, and I’m sure if I needed to ask him something he would respond in kind.

	W:	The late Dr. James Scott.



	A:	I loved me some James Scott. He was the kind of guy who truly believed in a collaborative working relationship with folks regardless of what unit or department that you were in. He just seemed to be the kind of guy who had an outreached arm and hands to try bring you in and let you be a part of whatever was going on in student affairs for whatever unit or division you were on on campus. That was my memories of him. He was another one of those folks who was very approachable. In many ways you could get the back off his shirt to help you if you needed that. He was a tremendous loss. I will forever grieve that loss.

	W:	You came here in turbulent times; this is the twentieth anniversary of the student murders. I don’t want to dwell on that for too long but I feel like getting a reaction





from you having lived through those times and been here would be appropriate for people listening years from now. What do you remember of those times?

What sticks out in your mind about that situation?



	A:	Well obviously, the first thing is the tremendous tragedy it was for students, faculty, staff, deans and the whole community. In many ways it was kind of a shocker around the world. I can remember going to—being at Toronto at a conference a year or so after that and somebody from India asked, when I told him I was from Gainesville, if I had heard about the student murders. The thing I remember most about that it was a time when people who had seemed to have been separated by whatever sorrows you could think of on this campus came together and were very supportive of each other. Strangers, different races, ethnicities, you name it. People kind of came together to try to care and take care of each other. Like I said it was a tragedy in many ways, but in a number of other ways it was a unique opportunity and experience for a lot of folks to come together. Only under those kinds of circumstances probably would we have come together. It was just a pretty unique time in many ways from that standpoint.

	W:	In what ways has the University of Florida changed in those times? Both generally I would ask and if you would follow up with it how’s it changed for Black students here at UF.

A:   Well I think in some ways it’s changed in the sense that the level of involvement for Black students seems to have increased considerably from an organizational standpoint. I think that the educational opportunities in terms of the flexibilities of majors and those things have improved. I know I sound like I’m hesitating a little





bit here, but I guess there was comparative what I sense now versus what I was sensing way back when. I know that the University of Florida is a great place and it was warm and accepting. It seemed more inviting then than it does now, but that has nothing to do with, I think, the University of Florida that’s probably how the state of Florida has changed more than anything else. One Florida put a whole different taste on what it meant to be a minority student at the University of Florida in my mind. It got us to be a part of the whole in many ways, but at the same time the uniqueness I remember experiencing as a minority student at the University of Florida doesn’t seem to be there. That’s probably good in many ways. It just doesn’t feel the same. It’s a great place to be for high quality education. A real opportunity to get an experience that really prepares you for not only jobs in the future in various corporations, but I think from a global standpoint this university sets you up to be able to function at a high level once you leave here. I still would have to say that I would send my kids here. I know that my grandson will probably work his way into becoming a Gator since they all seem to love the Gator Nation.

	W:	Bright Futures? [Laughter]. What are your hopes for this next and incoming generation for African-American students at the University of Florida? What do you hope for them?

	A:	I hope that they’re able to come here and of course get the quality education, but also an experience that will prepare them for life in general. Leave here with fond and warm memories of actually having had a full both academic as well as a personal heartwarming experience. Leaving here feeling like they really do have





the skills, knowledge, and inspiration to go on and do all that they’d like to do in life. To not leave here with any unnecessary scars, but then you can learn from those as well.

	W:	Your comment on scars reminds me, I’d like to do a little role playing with you here for a second, and ask you to think about your most positive experience related to the University of Florida and maybe a not so positive experience. Then compare them.

	A:	The positive experience for me has been that the University of Florida because of its wide variety of educational opportunities it really did give me an opportunity to learn as much as I wanted to. In some cases to learn more than I really needed to know. But I had the time, and the flexibility, and the resources, and wherewithal to just study and learn as much as I wanted until somebody told me I needed to take my butt to work and make a real living other than being a professional student. [Laughter] I assume that sounds broad but, that really was what I enjoyed about being here. I could study, meet people. My favorite places was in the library. That was kind of my hobby; going to the library reading, studying, and interacting with folks, and those kinds of things. Negative experiences I have to say that it took a little getting accustomed to, and this may sound a little strange, but I always sometimes say I really didn’t discover racism until I came to the University of Florida or really to Gainesville. And part of that was my guess is that in Missouri, as I look back at it, it happened, it existed, but I really didn’t see it. Here people if they decided to be racists towards you they would kind of just go ahead and be it. I can still remember some of my





experiences of being pulled over while riding my bike being Black. I had a nice little red sports car when I came here and getting stopped considerable times by GPD for whatever reasons. Other than that those were pretty much the little negatives that I can remember. All that did was taught me how to—how shall I say—work at figuring out how to stay out of those situations, and embrace my relationships with law enforcement and whoever else had the power to impact my life; to work around those things and move on with my life.

	W:	You describe it so rationally in an organized logical fashion how you processed and dealt with those situations. If I can dig a little further, how do you feel about the fact, or not the fact, but do you feel that a person who is not Black or a person of color doesn’t deal with that burden? They don’t have to learn what those techniques and strategies are. Are you a different person because you’ve had to learn for survival sake articulate, practice, and process and know how to do that. That’s not a burden that maybe somebody else has. How do you reconcile that with your life?

	A:	Well I think for me what it did was kind took away my innocence in the sense that I probably saw life through these rose color glasses for lack of better terms, in the sense that I just thought everybody liked each other, and everybody generally would care for each other regardless of race, or whatever you want to call it. And so it kind of taught me that I had to know that everybody didn’t think that way, and to accept that. The opportunities that I found myself to try and impact that in some positive way. I can remember a time or two when I had a client or two when I was in some of my training at the VA who were members of the Klu Klux





Klan. He wouldn’t let a Black nurse touch him, but they would somehow allow themselves to talk to me about enhancing their sex lives from a therapy standpoint after cardiac surgery. I just kind of figured out to take people where they were at and work with what I could with my interactions with. Not saying that my goal was to change their minds, but to do what I needed to do to be helpful or not be attacked.

	W:	This year’s theme for Black Alumni Weekend is Building a Foundation for the Gator Nation. How do you think you fit into that and being here today?

	A:	My best way of answering that is is that I can truly say that from my experience at the University of Florida people who come here and work here really do have a strong foundation to stand upon, and I say people specifically—minority folks that has been laid by people like yourself, and other African-Americans folks who came here way back when and really has opened the doors in many ways for a lot of folks to be able to walk through and stand upon their shoulders, if you will.

To go and be successful themselves and make a contribution as they leave the University of Florida throughout the world. That sounds a little philosophically hokey, but that’s how I see it.

	W:	Not at all.



	A:	I generally have warm, good feelings about the University of Florida as an institution and what role it can play in setting the stage for a good future for African-American students and employees that are here.

	W:	Dr. Jackie Lewis Ayers on behalf of the Sam Proctor Oral History Program here during Black Alumni Weekend at Emerson Hall I want to thank you so much for





your candor. For just your very thoughtful reflections about your academic career, life, and your family history and everything that’s culminated in this weekend. We really appreciate being able to speak with you. I like to close each interview by giving the person I’ve spoken with first our thanks again for the interview, because it’s invaluable for the future. I imagine fifty, a hundred years from now someone listening to this, so thank you for your contribution. Then to give you the final privilege. If there is something that you’d care to discuss or reflect on from the interview or something that we didn’t talk about or just something else; whatever that is at the end of those comments that will conclude our interview today. Thank you again.

	A:	Let me just simply say that I’d like to thank the University of Florida for providing me with the opportunity to meet my great wife Shirley Ayers. That would not have happened if I had not come to the University of Florida, that in and of itself is well worth it. Thank you.

[End of Interview.]





	Transcribed by:	Andre Everette Audit-Edited by:	Jennifer Romero

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019