Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 012 Paul Cohen

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Marna Weston on March 2, 2010

4 minutes | 2 pages



Abstract: Paul Cohen discusses his relationship with Mr. Arnold Mitchell, whose band integrated the Gator Growl event at the University of Florida. He also talks about living in Nigeria when he was younger while his father was working on an ethnography. The country was already headed toward civil war, and some of his father’s colleagues were trying to work to prevent the massacre of Biafrans.



Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Nigerian Civil War]



























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 012

Interviewee: Paul Cohen Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: March 2, 2010



	W:	Speaking with Mr. Paul Cohen, who, through his interest, we were able to do this interview with Mr. Mitchell. And thank you very much, Paul, for being so forthright and approaching us about this opportunity. Why do you think it’s important that we celebrate the achievements of artists of Mr. Mitchell?

	C:	Well, in particular, Mr. Mitchell was a pioneer, in my mind, in civil rights, and he was part of, I guess, ending in a conflict which I felt—which in so many other countries has not ended so peacefully or so harmoniously. I felt by having Mr. Mitchell in Gator Growl, fifty years later, that it would demonstrate to the country, to the state, to the world, that there are ways to have a peaceful end to conflict. I think this is very important. Particularly because I have seen massacres all over the world—particularly when I was living in Nigeria. In 1967, I believe we were living this summer. That fall, the civil war broke out. There were hundreds of people, dead, on the compound where we were living.

	W:	Mmhm. Now, the civil war, you are speaking of is the cessation of the eastern part of Nigeria, Biafra from Nigeria?

	C:	Yeah.



	W:	So, you were actually there when that was taking place?



	C:	Just before. I was out of the country. Some of my father’s colleagues were trying to rescue Biafrans from being massacred.

	W:	Why were you there?



	C:	My father had done an ethnography on Borno, on the Kanuri of Borno, and wrote a book called The Kanuri of Bornu. They’ve changed the name to Borno. At the



AAHP 012; Cohen; Page 2



time I was in Nigeria, he was doing a study on divorce, and that culminated in a book called Dominance and Defiance.

	W:	It’s always fascinating how the threads of people’s lives bring us to these types of understandings, and more broader awareness of the world. I want to thank you so much for sharing part of your story about Nigeria, and also for sharing your friendship with Mr. Mitchell through meeting you at the Civic Media Center, through one of the Sam Proctor Center’s activities. And leading us to what may be a great Gator Growl 2010. Just to close the interview, how confident are you that this could happen, or what are your hopes for it?

	C:	I think that I’ve seen a lot of pressure on Blue Key, and I think Blue Key seems to be somewhat—the current power structure seems to be somewhat indifferent, but there’re a lot of people who are associated with Blue Key and even in Blue Key who would like to see it happen.

	W:	Terrific. Well, thank you very much for your time today. C:	All right, thank you.

[End of interview]





	Audit edited by:	Anna Jimenez, August 12, 2013. Second audit-edit:	Ryan Morini, June 29, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 16, 2019