AAHP 017A, Reaves, Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 017A Laura Scott Reaves African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on March 6, 2010 1 hour, 23 minutes | 42 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Laura Scott Reaves describes her experiences growing up in Perry, and later going on to teach school there. Although the University of Florida did not allow Black students to attend campus when she was younger, it did allow Black students to obtain correspondence degrees, and she describes the process she underwent to earn hers. She also describes what she calls the “Civil War of 1923,” in which White supremacist powermongering led to a massive racialized labor dispute centered around the Burton and Swartz cypress mill and the skilled Black laborers who moved with the mill from its original location in Louisiana. She also describes a variety of other experiences with segregation and White supremacy in Perry and the surrounding area, from bus incidents to voting rights (and denial thereof), and including a Ku Klux Klan cross burning in more recent years.



Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School; Education; Segregation]









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 017A

Interviewee: Laura Reaves Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: March 6, 2010



	W:	I am conducting interviews for the African American History Project at the University of Florida. We want to talk to as many elders as we can to understand the things that took place before now.

	R:	Christine Holmes—that’s an elder lady.



	W:	Yes, ma’am. If you will excuse me for one second, I just want to make sure I locked my car with my computer.

	R:	Okay. [Extended pause.]

	W:	So it stayed locked, and now I’m back. R:	Well, I tend to lock mine.

	W:	Mmhm. And—oh, may I have a seat?



	R:	Mmhm! Sit down! Pull a chair. Throw that—I moved all that junk out your way, sugars!

	W:	I had a piece of paper here that was kind of important, though. I don’t want it to mess up your papers.

	R:	This was a piece of paper I was putting my [inaudible 0:53]. Look! Look, she did a movie.

	W:	Well, it’s okay. I have got other ones. I’ll just go out to my car and grab another one.

	R:	Well, but it has to be right here somewheres. Could, is that it? No?





	W:	No, ma’am. It was a blank, eight and a half by eleven piece of paper. Did we move anything? Because this looks like it, right here.

	R:	Well, that might be.



	W:	That’s it! That’s it, right there.



	R:	I remember moving it from right here, and pushed that over there out the way, so you could sit down.

	W:	Yeah, well, the reason that I came to visit you is that I—



	R:	I am going to move my trash bag, that I put tore-up paper in there.



	W:	The reason that I came to visit you is, I spoke to Miss Christine Baines-Holmes, and she told me that you were one of her teachers, and that you were still living in Perry, and that if I wanted to know about things that happened before she knew about things, the person to talk to would be you.

	R:	[Laughter] That’s what she said? W:	Yes, ma’am, she did.

	R:	Yeah, I’m a little bit older than she is. She has some grown children, though.



	W:	Yes, ma’am. In fact, one of her daughters—her baby girl was there when I was just talking to her.

	R:	Sure enough?



	W:	Uh-huh. Yes, ma’am. So you remember everybody. [Laughter] You remembered her name just like that.

	R:	Yeah, I remember. Remember, I taught most of them over forty-two years of teaching! That’s what I been doing. And, because I—what you want know about this, child?











	W:	Well, let me first—I’ll just start, set the plate: I am Marna Weston, and I am with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida. And I’m here in Perry, Florida, at the home of Ms. Laura Scott Reaves, a renowned educator in the area who was suggested to me. So, thank you for letting me have this impromptu visit to your home.

	R:	[Laughter] Well, you welcome.



	W:	Thank you. Ms. Reaves, how old are you? When were you born? R:	When I born?

	W:	Yes, ma’am.



	R:	[Laughter] I retired in [19]82. So, I must have been born back there. W:	Well, what is the date of your birth?

	R:	Date of my birth? W:	Yes, ma’am.

	R:	What you going to say about it?



	W:	Well, we are just going to put it in the oral history archives. One day, some scholars may just want to note what your age was on the date that we had this interview.

	R:	[Laughter] Well, I’m ninety years old.



	W:	Ninety years old. And what is your date of— R:	1919.

	W:	Okay, and what is your birth date?





	R:	November 24, 1919.



	W:	November 24. So you were a Thanksgiving baby?



	R:	Yeah, I’m a Thanksgiving baby. They brought me to my momma and daddy on Thanksgiving.

	W:	Who were your mother and father? What were their names? R:	Elmo Scott

	W:	Okay. And we’re here on Elmo Scott Street! R:	That’s his name.

	W:	So, the street outside is named after your dad. R:	Yeah.

	W:	How did that happen?



	R:	Well, we been here all the time. They had a Calhoun Street over there, and they had a Calhoun Avenue over here. And so, the people over there on Calhoun Street wanted to keep Calhoun Street. And they came out here and they told us one day to get us a name for the street. So, lot of the people wanted me to get my husband’ name for the street, but my family was so big until I didn’t have but nine brothers, and it was four girls. And we was raised right there. Momma and daddy and them, gone now, you know, they gone. And after they passed on, the house is just—of course, you named that Katrina?

	W:	Yes, ma’am.



	R:	That’s that storm? Well, then she decided to do it a little, you know [inaudible 5:01]. Well, somebody kept worrying me about renting it, and so I told them that it’s too bad to rent. And the lady said to me, she says, “I know a man can stop





them leaks.” And so, that afternoon, she sent a man over here. When he came, I had a [inaudible 5:23] coming bad. But that next Saturday morning, he was right here. And so, he fixed it where somebody could live in it. And it doesn’t leak inside, but it looks bad outside, because they won’t keep it.

	W:	Okay. So, Elmo Scott is your Dad. What about your mother; what is her name? R:	Her name is Indiana Scott.

	W:	What was her maiden name?



	R:	Braxton. My mother was a Braxton.



	W:	And where was she originally from? Was she from Perry, or somewhere else?



	R:	She was born out there, not Steinhatchee—Fenholloway. Her Daddy owned the land that that Buckeye Mill was on—that that mill is on now. My parent owned that land.

	W:	What was her father’s name?



	R:	His name was John Raymond Braxton, and he was a veteran of the Civil War, my momma’s daddy was. And what happened, he got caught over here with the big shots—those people that was over here issuing out the land and all that stuff. And my momma, when he found my grandmother, and he married her. Her name was Emma Taylor.

	W:	Emma Taylor. Do you remember your grandmother and your grandfather’s date of birth? Or around what year they was born?

	R:	Well, I most remember when they died. They died in the [19]40s. Yeah, my granddaddy, Harris Scott, lived on Main Street over there, and this is Green





Street. Daddy lived up here. But they, we had it, but we got none oversided



laws. Yeah, and I don’t think I could get it right now.



	W:	Okay.



	R:	But I’ll try, but I’ll look at some of these old books and I might could find it in there somewhere.

	W:	Do you have brothers and sisters?



	R:	I just told you! I had nine brothers. And them nine boys was raised right over there.

	W:	Can you tell me their names?



	R:	Yeah! [Laughter] There is Elmo Scott, after my Daddy, Rudolf Scott, William Scott, Edward Scott, Howard Scott—Lieutenant Howard Scott—Edward’s a Lieutenant, and Howard was a Captain. Now, let me tell you about Howard. Howard used to want to go to school, he wanted to be a lawyer, you know, that stuff. So, he decided that he would take some courses in it while he was working as a bellhop at that Dixie Taylor Hotel up there. That only hotel up there. Well, he did so good, until they sent for him. He went to Chicago and finished in there. So, when he came back home, he wanted to go to the Army. But he went to visit my sister who was living in Philadelphia, and when he got over there, he joined the Army from her address. And that is why you don’t know that that famous Lieutenant Scott was born in that house, right there. Well, [inaudible 8:59] he died. Then when he died, my two—my oldest sister and the youngest went and got, claimed his body and brought him back home. So, he’s home, but they did a lot of little talking round there before they would believe him, but we wanted him





home with the rest of the boys. We have, all five brothers is out there, buried— out there in the area around here where we was going.

	W:	What were your sisters’ names? You mentioned some sisters.



	R:	All right, now, if you look down this road right here, and see that brick house down there, that’s one of my sisters. She is one who graduates from A&M.

	W:	And what’s her name?



	R:	Her name is Juanita Scott. And you might know her daughter. Her name is Vernita Scott—Vernita Williams. That’s her picture there. That’s attorney Williams. And she is doing extra good. Now, she went and taught at Howard’s University in Washington, but something happened up there in that cold and she just couldn’t stand it. She said, “Momma, I just can’t stand this cold.” So, she end up going back down there, to Miami, and that is where she is now. Now, in Miami, she’s with one of the law firms down there, and she always liked church. And Momma always sent her to church. And so she got tied up with those lawyers and different ones, and the biggest church down there—she got a group of lawyers in class there. And the pastor just is so proud of them, he doesn’t know what to do. But she, she’s a great woman.

	W:	What about your sister that lived in Philadelphia? What was her name?



	R:	Her name is Ernestine Taylor. Her husband died and a few years later, she came back home. Now, she lives over there on Pecan Street in Belleair, but she’s here, now. And, go to this corner right here, where you turned in to come here? All right. Then you see one, two, three houses. And the third house on your right, going that way, before you turn, is the other sister. Her name is Corinne. Now,





she has six daughters. She got several children. She had more children than the rest of us; I didn’t have but one daughter. My daughter died.

	W:	And what was her name?



	R:	Her name was Gwendolyn. Gwendolyn Thorpe. She was a Reaves, like me. You won’t forget my name because if you can remember “Leaves,” move that ‘L’ off of Leaves and put an ‘R’ in there, and you will have it. We spell it the English way. R-E-A, not R-E-E.

	W:	Yes, ma’am. So, you have lived in this area your whole life, and your family is from here? What was this place like when you were growing up?

	R:	Terrible. Terrible! [Laughter] Now, here is what lot of people don’t know. There’s two things that they don’t know. They don’t know that anybody went to University of Florida in the [19]30s. Now, they didn’t know that. They told my nephew, who is Dean of Boys over there in Seminole County, Will Scott, that it wasn’t so. “You couldn’t go to that school at that time.” He said, “Well, I have an auntie that went there.” “Well, I don’t believe you.” [Laughter] They didn’t believe him. So he wrote me, and he told me, he says, “I was at a little party, a banquet or something, but I told him that I had an aunt that went to school at the University of Florida back in the [19]30s. And he said, ‘No, she didn’t.’” Well, do you know I had to get my degrees and send them to him? He kept them until he came home to visit. He brought my degrees back to me. Now, here’s how that happened. You were still a baby. But it happened because I had a friend that had gone, moved from here and went to New Jersey. And she went to school in New Jersey. And she came back, and they brought, the superintendent brought some certificates and





different things out here. Because at that time, you could take a test and the Florida State would hire you. Now, you’ve heard of that, but you was too young to know about it. All right, well I was one of them that she persuaded. She said, she says, “Scott, come on. Come on and take the test.” I say, “Oh, no. All these churches I went to school in, and no school, and all that stuff.” She said, “Well, let me tell you something about this, about that test and what I could see about it. If it’s teaching, you have to do a lot of memorizing. And if you do a lot of memorizing, and things like that, surely you could remember what you went through with.” And she kept on until she persuaded me. And did you know, I passed that test?

	W:	Did you take it at the University of Florida in Gainesville?



	R:	No, I didn’t take the test at the University of Florida. I wanted to take it at A&M, but A&M was just creeping itself up in the [19]30s. And they didn’t have any extension courses. And I had to have an extension course, because when she made a second grade certificate, she had two years to get ready and keep her certificate etched in, and I didn’t have but one. And A&M couldn’t give it to me, because they didn’t have it. All right, and I was crying. All right, now, at the end of this road—the dead end of this road as you running this way—their house was on the corner, which is burned down, was my grandmother’s home. All of us was over in here. And she said, “Listen, you can go to school to the University of Florida. Don’t worry about it. Just go. And when you get ready to go, you let me know.” And so, they did hire me. They hired me in Dixie County. You know that’s Cross City?





	W:	Yes, ma’am.



	R:	All right, they hired me over there, and then that made me be close to Gainesville. And she told me I could go. She said, “God own that school, and he own the people that run it. And so you go, but don’t you go unless you let me know when you going.” I went, and I was treated royal. I went over there, and my first twelve years of college credit came from the University of Florida. Well, after that, she say, “Well, how did your Grandma . . .?” I said, “My grandma . . .” You know that. You might not believe it. You Muslim?

	W:	No, ma’am.



	R:	You not a Muslim? W:	No, ma’am.

	R:	OK, then you believe that she could pray that into it. So she prayed, and I went over there. I had no problem. But, what happened is, I had to get that certificate extended before the next June, because they issued it in June, and I had to have it extended. Well, I got over there, and I took all, took the courses that I had to have to get it extended, and I failed one of them. And I’m still failing it. You might be failing it, too. Economics. [Laughter] Well, my oldest brother said to me, I said, “Lord, I got to have it; I got to have it.” He said, “Well, I sure wouldn’t be begging Him.” I said, “Yes, I am.” I wrote my teacher a letter and thanked him for all his teaching, and how much I enjoyed it. I said, “but it’s just one thing: I didn’t do enough credit to get a good grade in economics, and I want you to give me some more work to do. Will you do that?” And then I explained to him that I was working in Dixie County and I needed some more credits. And he sent me one of





the credits, and he said, “I want you to tell me about the origin of your home town.” Well, that fairly my name, because now, Elizabeth Taylor—that was Great-grandmomma. Elizabeth Taylor died in [19]36, and she was 108 years old. Now, that was Great-grandmomma. All right, now, this one that lived right here, down here on the corner, is the one, my momma’s mother. She is the one that told me, “You go on over to Gainesville and you get your certificate extended.”

	W:	That’s Grandma Braxton? R:	Grandma Braxton.

	W:	Okay, so her husband was the veteran of the Civil War.



R:  That’s right. Well, now, how we found as much about that Civil War as we did, the graveyard burn up. And, I mean all of the grass, and, you know how things can catch afire and burn?

W:   Yes, ma’am.



	R:	And after everything was over, my brother decided he’d go out there—the one named Edward. Now, Edward finished a Lieutenant at A&M. Howard finished at Chester, Pennsylvania, the one I told you that was a lawyer that went to Chicago to captain. All right, Edward decided he would go out there. And he came back, Momma saw him running, he said, “Momma, I saw a grave and it had John Raymond Braxton on it. That was your Daddy!” And so Momma said to him, “Yeah, my Daddy’s name John Raymond Braxton.” He said, “Well, they done burned all the grass from around in there, and I saw a federal tombstone there. Grandma, he was in the Army.” He was in the Civil War. And he never did go back home. He married my grandmomma, and he stayed here until she believed





that somebody’d killed him. Because he was with old man Jackson and Taylor that was issuing this land and stuff when he died. And they believe that he was out there farming—I told you that they issued that land to him, that that mill is on. And he was out there, and he came home so sick. She said he threw up something green and they believe they put something in his water. That’s what they believe, but they have absolutely no proof. Momma said she just can remember—she was about six or seven years old—they had him in the wagon and they carried him out there. She remembered the type of grave that he had. But she was so little and so young. She didn’t know.

	W:	These men, Taylor and Jackson—who are they? R:	This is Taylor County.

	W:	So, named after that person?



	R:	Those are the, those are the—you know how they had them federal agents, after the Civil War, going around doing things in the South? They had a lot of them over different places. And so, Taylor County had a couple of them, too. And they named the county. My grandmother told me, in other words, she told me how the county got its name. It was Perry; it was a man and he had a store here. And his name was Perry. And in that store, they’d go there and exchange the corn and the eggs and the vegetables and things there in Mr. Perry’s store. Well, then, by and by, the mail came. And, because they would, told me about the horses would take mail to Mr. Perry’s store. And that is how we got our name.

	W:	Was this a white man or a black man? R:	Oh, he wasn’t no black man.





	W:	He was a white man?



	R:	The first black man that had a federal job was named J. D. Colson. Well, they put the railroad through here. The railroad, south, the Atlantic Railroad that come right through Thomasville [Georgia], come on through here and go on down to Tampa and Miami, and those places? Well, J. D. Colson would get on his Daddy’s wheel wagon and go get the mail. And somebody told him to stop him.

You aren’t going to have a Negro getting mail in Taylor County. Well, then after that, they did something to him and hurt him. And his sister got him and took him north. Mayola—she come and got her brother. Now, they hurt him. In other words, if they find out who had hurt him because he was driving that mail wagon, they wouldn’t have done anything to ‘em anyway. No, they, they was—[groans]. You didn’t know it was a Civil War here, did you?

	W:	No, ma’am.



	R:	In [19]23. Now in [19]23, I was here, but I was so young, until I hardly, can barely remember anything about it, but I remember one thing. When most of our people was leaving at night, my Uncle Will and my Aunt Salonie—they sold everything they had, and got on that train, and got out of Perry. A lot of them. My grandmother left. My daddy’s mother left too. They was afraid, because the United States soldiers was in here fixing this country. And you know that’s one thing, they got almost did? And anybody that can really tell you about it died in January. Her name was Bedie Williams. She was up in her nineties. And it was her mother that told me lots about that Civil War, and everything. And the graveyard out there, where I was telling you my granddaddy was buried? All





right, what happened out there, my Granddaddy Scott, whose home now is on, right down there on Main Street. All right, he was living out there. We had the only church out there and we had the graveyard in the churchyard . . .

	W:	What was the name of the church?



	R:	Springhill. Yeah, okay? And all of that was out there. So, grandpa, he was a rambler—he wasn’t like his son Elmo Scott, my Daddy. He left here, and he went to New Jersey and he got with the Ringling Brothers—a big wire company. And he worked there until he got tired of being up there. He come back home, and went back to his house, and there he lived until he died. Yeah, it was, the war was pretty rough here. And now, you want to know more about the mill?

	W:	Well, I’d like to ask you about the war for a second, because you’re saying, when you say there was a “civil war,” you mean it was black people versus white people?

	R:	Well, I can’t tell you about the civil war until I tell you about the mill. W:	Okay, well let’s talk about the mill.

	R:	Okay. We had a mill that come here. And the first time that I really was concerned about the mill, I was about fifth grade. In fifth grade, they was talking about how people was building, getting lumber, and turpentine, and camphor, and had them trees down there. And they had that mill in a fifth grade geography. And I got the book and kinda let my brother . . . and when he saw the grave [engraving?], I went to my Mama, “Mama Mama! Look at this! This is that mill out there; this is that mill!” And then the mill and that brought on the conversation more about the mill. All right, the mill was there and what happened is, it came





moving here from Louisiana because—in fact, this is still a lumber country. You read a lot about Perry and its lumber now. All right, when that company moved in here, they brought their engineers. You get it? You can figure it out from there.

When they brought their engineers in here, the white man did not want them black men foremen. He didn’t want them in the foreman. He didn’t want them to work in the office. He didn’t want them to be out there when they got that big, they had a big water mill, water thing out there. And those men had all the major jobs—even one of them, Willy Hood, had the job of going downtown collecting the mail. And they didn’t like that! And so, the company told them that we have our engineers with us and ---one was named James Moreland [Mullins?], another one Ike Hampton, Cornelius Rhodes, and J. C. Brown. Well, those men run that mill for them people that owned it. And they was all white.

	W:	What was the name of the mill?



	R:	Burton and Swartz. Burton and Swartz. W:	And they were from Louisiana.

	R:	Yeah. Well, the Burtons was named Mr. Burton and the Swartz was named Swartz. That was two men that owned that mill. And one was named Burton, the other was named Scott [Swartz?]. Well, they had—the mill, the company, was losing so many of its people who was so afraid, and they run—was running north. Some went to Chicago. Some went to Philadelphia. And whoever had already gone up there was sending and getting them. And so, the thing happened is, it was losing them so bad, and they couldn’t handle the white people who was killing them . . .





	W:	So, that is what they were afraid of, white people were killing the skilled black people?

	R:	They did; they burned down the Baptist Spring Hill Church! W:	What, like, right in the open they would do it?

	R:	Sit ‘round at night and do it. They didn’t care. That’s what I tell you. My granddaddy owned that land, and he had the first parsonage that was here. My daddy’ daddy, my daddy would probably be about—well, he’d probably be about 120 years old by now. And do you know how old I am; I am ninety. All right. So, he sold his property.

	W:	To a white person?



	R:	To a white person. To get enough money to go catch that train, go on to Burlington where his sister-in-law had gone already. So, they just went up there. And they worried Daddy so long. They wanted Daddy from down there.

	W:	What was your daddy’s daddy’s name?



	R:	His name was Harry, Harry Scott. Okay, he came back, though; he came back and he died here.

	W:	But he had sold his land.



	R:	He had sold his land—but, he had bought some land from the Peacocks over here and built him another house.

	W:	Is that a black family or a white family—the Peacocks?





	R:	The Peacocks was white. Yeah, they had a big motel downtown, then. And that motel burned up. Well, you could talk about this place, this mill, this man—Burton





and Swartz, got as many black people as they could and they built a big quarters over there. And in that quarter they had guards. They had to do! And then, they were doing so bad, they sent the federal government to send soldiers and they sent them in in a hurry.

	W:	Mm! Well, did that help any to have the soldiers?



	R:	Well, they was kinda like they were in Georgia. They were still mean. But they weren’t killing as bad. But they really meant for you not to get an education. Now, they meant that. Every church, every place we tried to go to school, they burned it down. Now, right down, on this same side of that road, right out there, we had the Mason—big old tall Mason building right down there. Well, that’s where everybody went to school then, because the mill had come in here and when we all settled, and those people was over there, then he built the quarters, and all them lived in the quarters. [Lowers her voice] But they had guards at the gate.

But they soon got tired of that. But them soldiers came. United States Army. But, now they talk about Rosewood here, down there near Chiefland, but nobody talking about Rosehead! Rosehead, that’s Perry. I told you that was the man’s name at the start. And they got things quiet and all down here, but it was—even when I was a little girl, we wasn’t quiet about that school. Every church . . .

	W:	Does anybody know the names of the people that burned down the church or that killed people? I mean, did everybody know who they were?





	R:	It wouldn’t do no good. Liptons and there were some Richardsons. Momma know all them names. [Laughter] But I don’t know all those names. I do





remember the Liptons and the Towles. Now, the Towles was mean until the end. He was so mean until last I can remember, he was doing something to somebody, and a boy stand up and he was looking at him. I don’t know—I know he know what that boy was thinking. He was probably thinking, “When I get to be a man, I’m going to get you.” And you know he shot that boy in the back, and he died?

	W:	Do you remember the boy’s name?



	R:	They didn’t do anything about it until later on. It was taken to a paper called The Chicago Defender. And that Chicag—you’ve heard of it?

	W:	Yes, ma’am. I know The Chicago Defender.



	R:	All right. And that Chicago Defender got hold to the news. And they spread it like fire. And then, after that, they came in here, and they got this man. He was named Bill Towles. And they got him. But, they didn’t do nothing to him.

	W:	What was the boy’s name?



	R:	I tell you what they did: they broke him. Took all his money. That wasn’t enough punishment for killing a boy teenager.

	W:	What was the boy’s name?



	R:	Joseph, I think Joseph William—I think it was, I know the first was named Joseph.

	W:	And just shot him in the back.



	R:	He says, “What you watching for? What you going to do about it?” And just be drunken and acting like a nut, and shot that boy in the back and he died. But they never give him a prison term or anything like that. They did pick him up, and what





they did to him was nothing. But they fined him so much, until he didn’t have anything. He was broke. He went to his sister crying. He says, “Sister, they took all my money.” I don’t know what she told him. But he was a broke man. He died broke. You probably looked at that little store you passed down there when you turn on that corner there? That’s what all he built, what he had left. And then, the blacks didn’t go down there and buy much from him, because—but the some of them would go, because, there’s one thing, they was afraid of him. Lipman, Bill Towles, and some Richardson somebody. I remember Bill Towles and Lipman. Well, the white people were scared of Lipkin. He was out on 19 one night, and, for some reason, a group of white men killed him. Old lady Peacock, I told you that owned that store now, her store burnt down—that big wide space there?

That store, it was so old until it just felleded down. And they had to move it out the way. It’s the only big wide space in town. That was a big department store owned by the Peacocks. Well, that’s how the mill came—how the soldiers got in here—the Swartz sent for them. They said that, “We spent everything we had moving that mill to Perry, and we just wasn’t going let them take it.” And all they wanted was the black—they told them what they wanted! They wanted the black people to work on that farm, and they wanted the white men to work in the mill. But they brought the engineers. And they wouldn’t change their mind.

	W:	Did any of those engineers stay here in Perry?



	R:	Oh, they stayed here; all of them died, old men. Now, they had… [Pause] Cornelius Rhodes died here; Ike Hampton died and buried here; and they had Lester Burn. Well, I think his daughter moved to Tallahassee and his body’s





resting in Tallahassee somewhere. And Cornelius Rhodes, Ike Hampton’s here. And then we had one down here, had a two story, not a two-story, a big wooden store on the other side of that 3rd Street down there where the road closed. Now, a black man owned that land. It wasn’t hard for him to own that land the way the people come during the Civil War and gave it to them They did it right. [Laughter]

	W:	It was hard to hold on to it afterwards.



	R:	Yeah, because lot of them left here. Not those that he brought in. Somehow or ‘nother, he kept them over there in that big old place where he had built some houses for them. ‘Course, some of them got good homes out from there, now, but that they bought after things settled down a little bit. Yeah, this was rough. And I can’t tell you a school that I went to that I that the county bought yet. At my age, they never—I never went to school that they fixed for us. Now, my grandmomma and granddad, they bought the land, now. They bought the land, and they gave them a old building on the land, but somebody soon come burn it down. You never heard of so many buildings being burned! And you—

	W:	What were the names of some of the schools that you went to that go burned down?

	R:	Well, what’s the name of the library at A&M?



	W:	Oh, you are right; it is something with a “C”. You’re right. Coleman Library.





	R:	It’s Coleman? Well, he done named it after that black man. But that little library that had before they got that big one? That was a little one, it was named after a white man. And this white man—I think it was Cornelius—it was started with a





“C,” just like you said. And I can’t think of it right now. But that’s the school—this man… willed everything he had to black people. Black people got it. Just like Fessenden Academy in Ocala. Now, Mr. Fessenden was caught on the highway, walking one day, and the storm came, the wind blew. And he didn’t know what to do or where to go. Well, by and by, he kept walking. He saw an old raggedy building with some wooden windows. He said, “Well, I’m going to go in there, until after the storm.” And he went in there. And when he went there, he found a black teacher teaching black children with no light. He made up his mind that when he leave here, if he had anything, he’d give it all to the blacks. So, Mr.

Fessenden willed—you’ve always heard of some of them rich men walking on highways when they got rich. Anyway, everything he had, he willed it, and the county built Fessenden Academy over there. Well, Cornelius—not only did he will—he was rich and had everything. That name may not be just right. But some of them people at A & M probably can tell you. Now, he willed his to the blacks in America, and when we had this man that come here that named Jerkins. Jerkins just couldn’t stand the school he was working. And then, he wanted the schoo,l but they didn’t have no money to build one. And so here is what happened: that one burned down. Sometime they shoot a man, he scared to tell it. But the school burned down.

	W:	What was the name of that school? R:	I’m fixing to tell you.

	W:	Okay.





	R:	It was Black—Taylor County Black School, and I think they had it Taylor County Negro School until—this Jerkins was so smart, he come in here from Daytona. He wrote and asked Mr. Cornelius—whoever he was—for a building. He said the children have nowhere to go to school. And this man wrote him back, and told him, “If you are somewhere but you don’t have a name for your school.” He couldn’t understand that the blacks elementary—I believe—in other words, blacks elementary school. So, Mr. Jerkins, Professor Jerkins, he got with the few teachers he had—one of them was named Alberta Bowman—I’ll never forget her, Sarah Roundtree, Lilly Jones, and there was a few more out there. And his wife, Aida Jerkins. They got together, and somehow or another, those several people come up with the name. And they said that he wrote for the school and the man is giving him the school, and he should have the name. And they named it Jerkins High School. That’s where it got its name. It was given to us, and did you know, I had a chance to go to that school? But my parents bought the land.

They didn’t even buy the land; they bought it--all the blacks bought the land. So, that left me out. I can’t tell you and nobody else that Taylor County ever supplied me with a school. Because by the time this school was burned down, I told you everything [inaudible 43:46]. And this school was burned down. I was old enough I done passed that test. And I was teaching in Dixie County. You see?

So, people my age never did get a chance to go to school.



	W:	But you got the certificate that let you teach.



	R:	Yeah. No. This girl told me, “Come on and take the teacher’s test with me.” W:	The one from New Jersey.





	R:	Yeah, yeah. She wanted company. And she told me I was going to pass, and told me why. She said because they did a great, wide, beautiful, wonderful world, you better not foul upon it. Or something. And all of those states, you had to learn them, and the capital. And they’d whip you if you didn’t do it! So, a lot of that stuff, I learned it. And I didn’t have—really—much trouble. But, naturally, with her going to school with the whites up in New Jersey, that she would pass it more than me when we were going to these burned-down buildings and churches. So, I did pass. And then, but when this man gave us the school, and he built it, and the others was going to it, I was too old to go to it. So, that is how I got out. But of course, I wasn’t but eighteen.

	W:	Do you remember the name of the teacher that you wrote the letter to about the economics class where you got your credit? Do you remember what that teacher’s name was?

	R:	Oh, my Lord, that man probably dead so long! [Laughter.] That was back in the [19]30s. No, I don’t remember his name, but if I could get up and find out where I put my credits, probably his name is on.

	W:	You still have the certificate where you have your credits on it?



	R:	Yeah. Somewhere around here. And when I looked around, I couldn’t find all of them. I don’t know what happened to them. I think I found two of those grades, that he sent me. And now, when I get my grades from A&M, you will see that the University of Florida’s section is on there because they sent them to A&M. Now, you wasn’t there when Dr. Austin was there.

	W:	No, ma’am.





	R:	Well, Dr. Austin was the head of the elementary teaching department. Well, he’s the one. I was trying to major in mathematics. But he called me. Told me to come to the office. He say to me, “Miss Scott, you have a lot of credits here, and if you wanted to, you can pass out this summer. And then, if you pass—they had a little English thing. They make you—do you have to have that test now?

	W:	Not that I know of, ma’am, no.



	R:	Well, we had, A&M had a little test. It was basically English. You had to be able to write something. They probably gave you a lot of titles, and you would write up something about it. But they wouldn’t let you out of there if you couldn’t write something. You had to pass that English test. Well, I passed that test. And I had a girl here named Essie Mae Henderson. Essie Mae Henderson looked like a white woman, but she wasn’t white. But she was white. [Laughter]

	W:	Mmhm. You talking about “passing.” She was passing?



	R:	Yeah, well, yeah. She came about doing the some all that stuff. See, my granddaddy—you know, my granddaddy from a white man. He was on the slave farm in Monticello. And his mother was there. And when 1965—you know that one?

	W:	No, ma’am.



	R:	Yes, you do know.



	W:	Well, I know it is the year I was born.



	R:	That’s when Lincoln put the signature on us, and set we free! W:	Oh, 1865! Okay. Yes ma’am, I do.

	R:	Yeah, well, she left that plantation during that time, and she did get married.





	W:	Do you know the name of the plantation?



	R:	No, my brother did—the one that found my granddaddy out here? He even found them. And he talked with him. He said he wasn’t interested. He told them how he got his name. He got out the plantation there, and some of them was there at that time remembered my grandmother. Well, her name was Julia Scott. That is what he always would say that he got the name of the slave master.

	W:	Okay. So it was the Scott Plantation.



	R:	Yeah, Scott Plantation. Well, she got there. And when she left, she got married to Mr. Irving, and that is how all of the Irvings over there came to the Scott, because we had the same grandmother. And my granddaddy, he kinda bossed her around when he got ready. You see, we had a man named George Evans. the one I told you with the big home down the street?

	W:	Yes, ma’am.



	R:	Now, a man named Mr. Samson looked at two white men, threw two bottles in his house and burnt down. And he knew who they were. But he was scared to tell. So they burnt down Mr. Evans’ house. Now, Mr. Evans was the first man that sent his children off from this school. His name Sinclair Evans. Sinclair Evans taught me at A&M. And we would go there and teach in the summer and still teach—we pressure for a standard high school in Jacksonville. All right. Now, when time came for them to open their mouth and tell certain things, you wouldn’t. Well, they got in behind Mr. Evans—that’s that Evans Funeral Home— they said, old man Whitten, (he was a Negro-hater, too), he said, “No. You not gonna bury the blacks in Taylor County. I’ll see that you never bury a black in





Taylor County.” Well, he got so rabid, he ran, too. He went to Detroit. Well, his baby daughter, Aggie Jean Evans, she cried and cried. And his wife kept telling him, “George, Aggie Jean crying for you.” He wrote to a judge, and told the judge, “I haven’t done anything to anybody and I am coming home. My family needs me.” But now he had gotten with a plumbing outfit over there and you know how the black men could learn plumbing or whatever they was given a chance to do. Well, he learned how to do that, and so he come back and set to plumbing in Taylor County. Well then, you had them outdoors pits and all that stuff during that time. I remember we had the outdoors pits. And then, he got the whites settled, well, then do us now! So, I think it was one of these last governors. Anyway, it must have happened back in the [19]40s, he made it against the law for them to have these filling stations without a restroom. And for these homes to have them pit toilets in them. And so, Mr. Evans had a good job but as soon as he got the job, finishing everything all done good, they moved it. He wasn’t allowed to put it here. Old man Larson, with the Boyd’s Lumber Company, five miles going north, hired Mr. Evans to come out there and put water out in Boyd’s area. Now, that’s what he—they didn’t never let him work no more, after he did the job. And after they learned the job. They didn’t let him work no more. And then another thing, they told him that he could, that day after—I didn’t finish telling you about the judge and the letter.

He wrote the judge and he told him he was coming home. And so he did come. And when he came home, Whitten told him—went to his business and told him that “I told you that you wasn’t going to bury the dead—no dead—black or white,





in Taylor County.” And he threw that pistol on him. And they tell me that Mr. Evans begged a while. He begged a while. While some of the other blacks were saying that—“Burn”—no, that was soon to tell you that one. He begged him so hard, until he told him all he wanted to do was come home and see about his baby. And all he wanted to do is take care of his family. And he begged that man so hard for his time. And just like a flash, he had him and the bullet is in the building up there now. He got hold of that man, and he did pull the trigger, but the bullet went up there and Mr. Evans had him down on the floor. And got that gun and he stood up—now, you talk about a man begging for his life—but John James and a few of them other blacks that were standing ‘round, said, that man know he begged for his life. He begged for his life more than Mr. Evans did. He wanted to live. Mr. Evans says, “All I want to do is live for my family. And what do you want to do?” And he begged him so hard. And so more than a flash, Mr.

Evans was gone. See, them low buildings over on the south side of town, that’s where—that man let—them people that gave their land, gave some of it to the blacks, too. And Evans’ business was in one of those little buildings. And the fish market was also owned by a black man once in a while. Well, after then, Mr.

Evans got away from him. I said “He’s still begging,” and Mr. Evans was over there in the courthouse. And he says, “Here’s the gun I just took from Whitten. I didn’t want to kill him. I didn’t want him to kill me. So, I took the gun and here it is.” And that jury got a hold to that man; he got hold to the governor. And so, they issued a warrant in Taylor County that the black bury the black, and the white





bury the white. And so Evans decided to go home and shut up. He died about twelve, thirteen years ago. I am trying to tell you, it has been rough here.

	W:	What was the name of the judge?



	R:	It wasn’t Butler. I don’t know. I’ll think of it, though, and if I think of it again, I will write it down. Blannon. Blannon, that’s what it was.

	W:	So how did you become a teacher? R:	I told you. Didn’t I tell you that?

	W:	You told me about the certificate. And you told me—



	R:	And I told you about I had a friend that come back home from New Jersey. W:	So, where did you teach?

	R:	And she encouraged me. I taught over in Dixie County. Elementary School in Dixie County.

	W:	And how long did you teach there?



	R:	I think I taught about four years. I taught there until somebody did something mean to me. And I want to come home on the bus—well, you see the soldiers was going backwards and forwards then. Only riding the buses and they would always have the seats. Most times when I would want to get on the bus in Dixie County and come to Perry, it would be filled up mostly with that, and then, if there was a seat on that bus, I couldn’t sit on it if it was empty up near the front. I had to go in the back and stay in back and stand! And that’s, one day the man said to me—the driver said to me, “We don’t have any seats for blacks today.” He stopped the bus and yelled out the window, and told me that and kept going. He left me ‘side the road. And I told Mama, I say, “Mama, I wanna come home.” And





so, sure enough, I went uptown to—you know, I didn’t never stop studying. I kept that certificate extended because I had to, or I wouldn’t have worked. Okay, so I went down there and I talked to Mr. Ball D. Byrd. I told him that it’s hard for me to get from Dixie County—no, Doug Reddister—that was his name, the superintendent at that time. He said, “What you say your name is?” I said, “My name is Laura Scott.” He says, “You any kin to Harry?” I said, “My Granddaddy.” “Well, he was the one that nurse me from my Mama.” He said—in other words , it was funny to him. He said, “I like your looks for a teacher.” He says, “Right now I don’t have any opening, though. But I think that I am going have one, though.

You come back in here Monday.” So I went back Monday, and sure enough, he had a card from a teacher in—she’s kin to Pauline Allen in Tallahassee, Reverend Allen’s wife, it was her sister. She had written him a letter and told him that she wouldn’t be able to come back to the school. And he say, “You lucky.” So he sent me to Boyd. So I was principal of Boyd School a long time until they integrated. And when they integrated, I went to Jerkins.

	W:	Mmhm. What did you like about Boyd School? You liked being the principal there?

	R:	At Boyd?



	W:	Yes, ma’am.



	R:	Those people was extra—something about them I don’t understand. But every year, we had a special party, and every year they would see that those children went to Sunday School. And if they didn’t go, they would tell us—“she didn’t go to Sunday school Sunday.” And then, I had to call them and question: “R.C. why





you didn’t go to Sunday school yesterday?” “Well, Momma said, see my toe, shoes—hole in there—and she said she didn’t want me to go to Sunday School, but she said Saturday she gonna take me to town and buy me a pair.” Now, that Saturday walk went five miles from Boyd to Perry, but she got them shoes for that child. In other words, they meant to make them teachers make them children go to Sunday School. And if they didn’t go, they would tell. And by once a year, they would always call all the teachers in and do something special for them. All right? Now, here’s what hurt me. Jerkins wanted me to come to Jerkins before I went. And so, I did get a chance to go. And when I got to Jerkins and got everything lined up and thought I was going to work at Jerkins—the superintendent sent the principal for me. He came and I went there, and he gave me a seat. He said to me, he says, “Laura, there’s something that happened to you. As long as I have been superintendent it never happened to me. It never have. It never happened to a white teacher, or any teacher. Those people brought Mr. Laughlin, the boss man back up here, and said that we had taken that teacher, and they wanted her back.” So I had to go back to Boyd. But he had everything ready for me. He said, “Don’t worry. I know you close to home.” He had all kind of things fixed up. He said, “But I got a way for you to go, too. You don’t have to find your own way to go.” So, the man that got the kids from up here, out to Foley—that he would keep right on by here, and pick me up and take me on out there to Boyd while he was taking Foley children to Jerkins—they was high school ones. He was taking them to Jerkins. And so, in the afternoon, when he got those children again, he’d come by and get me and bring me back home.





And that superintendent, he was just the best thing ever. And the next thing he did good, when I went to Boyd, we were sitting on benches with no backs. And he came out there and he says, “My goodness, I don’t know how these children can stand it!” And they was writing in their lap. But did you know, in about three weeks—I don’t know where he got those seats from—he had seats in their place. And those children, the funny thing about it—little boys teaching in West Palm Beach, somewhere back in that area, he was home sick and he sent his grandmomma out there and told him he was saving him a seat. I said, “Well, you tell Billy that we done saved him a seat.” I said, “Well, I am so glad he wants a seat.”

	W:	Do you remember the little boy’s name? R:	His name is Billy Murchison.

	W:	And he went and taught in West Palm Beach? R:	Yes, he is teaching in that area now, I think.

	W:	Oh, do you know what school?



	R:	I don’t know what school it was. It’s been so long. You see, that—see, I was teaching out there in the [19]40s. And of course, it’s in Boyd. In Dixie County, I was teaching in the [19]30s, [19]38 and [19]39—until probably [19]41, three or four years after. But when I come back home, that war was going on good. And I just didn’t want that man talking to me like that, and I couldn’t help it.

	W:	What was the name of the superintendent that you liked who took care of you? R:	Alton Wentworth.

	W:	Okay.





	R:	Yeah, he’s alright.



	W:	What was the name of the man who talked to you wrong, so you were ready to leave?

	R:	When I was ready to leave?



	W:	Mmhm, because he talked to you wrong?



	R:	Oh, that was the bus man! That man that was on the bus. He saw me standing there waiting and then waved. And he stopped the bus long enough to tell me didn’t have no more room for niggers—no seat for niggers, today—and kept on drivin’. Left me standing side the road!

	W:	I wanted to ask you that, but also, you mentioned that you taught at an elementary school in Dixie County—you had wanted to come back, but they had talked to you the wrong way in Dixie County.

	R:	Not, no.



	W:	Oh, it was the bus driver that talked to you?



	R:	It was the bus driver. You see, when I went to Dixie County, I first went to a little school on this side of Dixie County, and they consolidated it and they sent me about ten miles on the other side, up near Suwannee River. And it was that area that I’d walk out, because I lived in one of the houses on 19. One of the houses, and you’ll know it if you see it, because it’s a church right there by it. A pretty little church and I lived in that house by the church.

	W:	What was the name of the church?





	R:	United Methodist. Methodist Episcopal. Now, let’s see how you get that one. The United Methodist Church came about—now, the lady that I lived with told me about that one. She was an elder lady when I was still quite young.

	W:	What was her name?



	R:	Carrie. Carrie Clark. Well, she told me that this church—they didn’t have any United Methodist churches for the south—that’s the fourth one you can find south. United Methodist is only those owned by the white people. She said, “They burned all our churches down.” She said that. And so, the United Methodist Church can go all the way back through Gainesville, Tampa, and everywhere up in that area. I mean the Methodist Episcopal, but not down this way. “United” means we are united together against the Civil War!

	W:	Oh!



	R:	There you go. So, that’s the way she explained it to me. Now, you’ll probably find some Methodist Episcopals farther north—you will find them—but you aren’t going hardly find them down thisaway, because they burneded all them up [inaudible 1:06:24].

	W:	Now, you are a Reaves so—



	R:	I’m a Scott, but I married a Reaves.



	W:	Okay, so I was going to ask you, what about Mr. Reaves, and—?



	R:	Mr. Reeves? Well, Mr. Reeves was the second black person in the post office. [Laughing] He went to the Army, and he did good. He said, “Once a soldier, always a soldier.” He always love it. And when he came back home, they had built this big mill, and got the mill through taxation. But Grandmomma didn’t know





what she was doing. If my brother had been here, he’d have helped her, but they got the mill built out there. Okay, well, when he came from the Army, he went out there, because it was more money, and those people are doing fine out there. He didn’t want to go back where he was a foreman out at Burton and Swartz, so he didn’t go back out there. But when his bossman found out he was out there, he sent for him. And said that the county commissioners told the people at the mill— Burton and Swartz—that they wasn’t going let them take their men. They wasn’t going let them have them. So he went on out here, thought it would be all right, and they welcomed him. Said, “We need a foreman out here.” Now, this man name James, that I told you was one of the engineers, he told him to do whatever he was doing out there because, see, he was about my age or something like that. Well, when he decided to go see what Mr. Rangland—I’ll never forget his name, his name was Rangland—wanted with you, he told him.

He says, “Clark, those people are paying more money, and they got better things for you to work with, and you owe it to your family, but we going keep you here.” And Clark told him, said that he made up his mind. He didn’t answer him, he didn’t talk with him. He said, “But I will not be back in this mill.” So, he didn’t go back; he never did get back down there in that fire boiler. He came home, and he got a job on the train. Every morning, and every evening, when that train would come in from the Atlantic Coast Line, he’d make it on down there. And he collected that mail. So, after then, the train stopped coming. And he was blessed again. He says, “Somebody moved out of the Post Office.” He said, “I want you to write me a letter. Come on, let’s write a letter.” So, we got him a letter ready,





and he gave it to the postmaster. And he sent for him the next day. And so, until he retired, he worked at that post office. Both of us retired at 82. He wouldn’t retire without me; I wasn’t ready to retire! I was ready to go to 48 years.

	W:	So, his name is Clark Reaves? R:	Yeah, Clark Reaves.

	W:	Now, when and where was he born? R:	He was born in Rhine, Georgia.

	W:	And you what the date of his birthday is? R:	1916.

	W:	Do you know what day? R:	March the 8th.

	W:	March the 8th, 1916. Okay, so he if he was alive, you’d be celebrating his birthday day after tomorrow.

	R:	Well, I probably won’t, because I’ll probably digging up here, trying to get this income tax and mess ready. But I’ll think about him.

	W:	How did you all meet?



	R:	I met out there on the school campus. We had something downtown—anyway, it was a something, a wheel, when you ride on a wheel change and all that stuff, like Jackson has for them children. Clark asked me to ride with him in the swing one day. Only, I didn’t want to ride with him. He said, “Come on, it’s safe. They not going let us get hurt.” And I went up there and rode with him that day. And when I got home, Momma say one of my brother said, told Momma, say, “Deedee got a boyfriend. She was riding in a wheel with her boyfriend.” Mama





said, “Who is the boyfriend?” One of them said, “Clark Reaves.” And ever since that day. [Laughter] Always, when we were riding up there in that wheel with him.

	W:	Do you remember the first time that you voted?



	R:	Oh, Lord! I remember the first time I voted, but it’s hard for me to tell you the date. I can tell more what happened during that time than I can tell when I voted.

	W:	Did you have any problems when you voted, or was it okay?



	R:	Well, no, didn’t have no problems, because you’re scared to go up there! Now, this man that I told this man wanted to kill, Mr. Evans that owned that Evans Funeral Home on 19?

	W:	Witten? Yeah.



	R:	He and one named Bubba Smith, and the other Smith, they the men that gotten behind it. The one time, they was going up there and vote anyway, and they threw their spit pot down on their heads, down there through the window. They did a lot of little crazy things around here. But, after they killed that boy—you know, you ever think about that? When something good is going to happen, somebody pay for it. Now, after that boy got killed, in about two years, we were voting.

	W:	Do you remember what year that was?



	R:	I don’t know. But I do know that I was old enough to teach. But I done forgot the year. It might have been in Dixie—no, we haven’t been voting that long. And then, another thing that’s happened—see, everywhere you go, something good can happen—now, this is going on now. We went on Jefferson Street downtown.





That big street the post office—I mean, the courthouse—is on? Jefferson, they call it?

	W:	Yes, ma’am.



	R:	Well, there’s a house on Jefferson Street about two years ago, and they had it for sale, for sale, for sale. And so, a black couple went up there to buy that house.

And the Ku—or whoever they were, Ku Klux, or, anyway, white people—got up and put a sign up, wanted to fight, and wanted to do this, and wanted to do that, and didn’t want them to have it.

	W:	Just a few years ago?



	R:	Yeah, about two or three years ago—something like that. W:	What happened?

	R:	Well, what happened was, a good thing happened. We had a black man there and I don’t know what the owner told him about the house, and that, but he sent for those people that went down there and been bothering him. And told them, “If you had wanted that house”—the judge now—“you should have gotten it. It’s been down every day, sale sign on it for three or four years. And now, whoever want to buy it, you let them buy it. And don’t you bother them.” So, right now, if you got the money and you want to buy a house, you buy it anywhere you want to buy it. That’s the only, best thing I know about Perry. These people are integrated—wherever you want to buy, you don’t have no problem. That’s because the head of the whites spoke out. They didn’t join them, because George Butler told them, “No, sir!” And then, this man could have been a wealthy man. I don’t know who he was. But I know it was a pretty good-looking house.





And they wanted it, and they got it. Now, the next one you got up there, they thought they was going to run somebody off Ash Street. Now, you come by Ash Street on the way in here from Tallahassee.

	W:	Yes, ma’am, I did. I turned onto Ash.



R:  Well, it’s on Ash Street that there was a house, and one of the sheriffs, a black, her name, that’s right, she is black, but she looks very bright. But she’s been an officer in this town about ten years.

W:   She is the sheriff?



R:  Not sheriff; work with the sheriff department. Okay, she bought this land over there on Ash Street. And they went out there and they burned up a cross on it.

W:   What’s her name?



	R:	Her name is—she married one of the Evans’ grandchildren, but he wasn’t a Evans—he was something else. I done forgot what it was.

	W:	How long ago did they burn the cross?



R:  They burnt the cross, and she went out there and took the cross, and said she’d been needing some kindling wood a long time! So, she cut the cross up and got it.

W:   How long ago was that?



R:   It was about four years ago.



	W:	They burned a cross here in Perry about four years ago.



	R:	They burnt that cross up. I’m trying to think of this woman, but if you see a woman look real bright in one of the sheriff cars, that’s her. She was married to this Evans man’ grandson that inherited that Evans Funeral Home—so she owns





it now. Well, she got that wood, and she burned it up. She said, I had been needing me some kindling wood a long time. And she burnt that wood up. I don’t know where she carried it, but she burned it up, and she said—and then she welcomed them to bring her some more. [Laughter] And so that’s the way that ended. Never heard no more about it. But if that judge hadn’t taken part with them black people, with their—and had them to leave their house and all, it’d been going on now. But if you got some money, you want to buy a house in Taylor County, you can buy it. That’s the only thing good I really know about it.

	W:	Ms. Reaves, I have really very so much so enjoyed our talk today, and that you have invited me into your home to speak with you. I’ve to get back to Tallahassee to talk to my students. I hope that I can come back and speak to you again sometime.

	R:	My picture is in one of your books up there. Now, let’s see… I don’t know what’s been wrong with me! Age, I guess. Now, I can’t think of this boy’ name. He works up on the campus.

	W:	At FAMU?



	R:	Yeah. And he, every now and then, he send an article in here to the paper.



W:  Well, maybe I’ll get a chance to get in contact with him. But I want to thank you so much for this time today.

R:   He called me one day. He said to me, he says, “Mrs. Reaves,” he says they had a book here, and they published that book in [19]52, and my name is in it. And a little write-up. And he said, “When I saw your name in that book, I had to buy it.” So, he bought the book.





	W:	How long will it be before you finish up your taxes? R:	My taxes? I should finish them up soon.

	W:	Okay. Well, maybe what I can do is I can come back beginning of April, and we can talk again.

	R:	Okay, coming in April? W:	Yes, ma’am.

	R:	Yeah. Will you come by yourself?



	W:	No, ma’am, next time I’ll bring my associate, Deborah Hendrix, with me, and we’ll have a video camera. So we’ll do some taping, and we can look at some of your papers that you have, and some of your pictures.

	R:	Some of my papers? [Laughter]



	W:	Yes, ma’am. And some of your pictures and things like that. R:	Old pictures. There are some of my pictures right there.

	W:	I know. But I really love—this is a very nice item there on the wall. R:	Yeah, but it look like it’s going fall soon.

	W:	Yeah, it’s an electronic picture display, and shows different pictures. Oh, yeah, that is you! I love your hat.

	R:	That’s by me again with the broom. My granddaughter brought that to me. She does everything; my daughter died. Well, she brought that thing there.

	W:	Right here?



	R:	Mmhm. Give me something to wear around my neck. W:	A Life Alert. Yes, I know what that is.





R:  Yeah. And she, the other day, she phoned somebody and told them that I wasn’t doing too good, and she told them my age, and told them to send somebody out here to help me. And they did.

W:   And that’s good.



R:  She comes only twice a week but it’s a lot of help. So, this shoulder been operated on. And it’s hard washing dishes and ironing. That kinda get me sometimes.

W:   Well, that iron can be heavy, probably.



	R:	Yeah. It’s not good for me. She comes in; sometimes she wash the dishes and do quite a few little things that I wasn’t doing. And then she got that for me to wear around my neck. And something else she did—oh, she wrote and told them that I needed some food, so they send me food every two weeks. [Laughter.] So, a lady told me, she say, “Don’t you go down there to the Senior Citizens’ anymore because this food isn’t for everybody to—it’s for people that’s housebound. I said, “I am housebound! I got the blue tag that you put up in the car.” But I was doing pretty bad when she did that, but they’re not going bother me. No, they’re not gonna bother me. And all my classmates about gone. Now, I have one in Tallahassee named Altamese Burns. Out there in that, one of them centers out there—I should think of it, but I’m not. I got to do something about that, thinking! Okay. But Altamese is out there, and they buried her son not too long ago. His name was Roy. Roy Allen. They buried him. And so, there we are. Yeah, Altamese is living; Hazel Williams living, and I’m still living. All the rest of





our classmates gone. So, God has blessed us. You know, you took everything I said down there!

	W:	Yes, ma’am.



	R:	Why you didn’t tell me and I just noticed it, since it’s all over? W:	Oh! Well, that’s what—

	R:	I might would have used my words little better. W:	Oh, no, you were perfect.

	R:	Perfect? [Laughter] W:	Yes, ma’am.

[End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, Jan 14, 2015 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 16, 2019