AAHP 343; Reynolds and Reynolds; Page 100





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 343 Leonard Reynolds and Mary Reynolds African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Justin Dunnavant, Ryan Morini, Sherry DuPree on July 9, 2014 3 hours, 29 minutes | 110 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 343

Interviewee: Leonard Reynolds and Mary Reynolds Interviewer: Justin Dunnavant, Ryan Morini, Sherry Dupree Date: July 9, 2014



	M:	So this is just a retroactive introduction for the interview that precedes this track on the recorder. It was an interview that took place on July 9th, 2014, at the home of the daughter of Leonard and Mary Reynolds. So this was in Ocala, Florida.

The interviewees were Leonard and Mary Reynolds, and the interviewers were Sherry DuPree, Ryan Morini, and Justin Dunnavant.

	JD:	And background commentary from Marya.



	M:	Yeah. And there was additional commentary from Marya—we’ll get her name.



But she’s not officially an interviewee. [Break in recording]

	LR:	All right, the history repeats itself. I know everybody’s heard that the history repeats itself, right? Now, you talking about Rosewood? Seven days after Christmas, 1923. Seven days after Christmas, 1923, was New Year’s Day, when all the commotion started in Rosewood. Where they started chasing all the people of color away. And doing, you know, what they wanted to do. Now, I say that for a reason. Talking about history repeats itself. Now, I said seven days after Christmas, 1923, when the Rosewood massacre started. Now, history repeat itself. Not 1923, but 2003. Seven days before Christmas, the only first people of color to move back into Rosewood was chased out. Seven days before Christmas, which was the 18th of December, 2003.

	MR:	It was your grandson’s birthday.



	LR:	Okay. Now, that’s what I say: history repeated itself. What happened—I never put it together, but I had a whole herd of borra goats in a field near the property





line. Little bunch of baby, beautiful baby borra goats. They all laid down and died in the field. I thought that maybe it was something there in the grass, or in the field, they ate, didn’t agree with them. So I just chalked it up to, that’s what it was. But it was a mother and one baby that I moved from that field to the field in front of the house. Now, they survived. They didn’t die. I brought that mother and her baby to Ocala when I moved here. And in the field where the mother and the baby were, were two—a donkey and a mule. They came to Ocala with me, too. [Laughter] See, I have—you know, you heard the saying, “forty acres?” I had forty acres in Rosewood, and a mule! [Laughter] I did! My mule broke a leg, and I had to put her down while she was was lying there. Now, I said all of that to say what I said. Coming to the point: December the 18th, 2003, I was here in Ocala, right in the same room that we in right now, for my grandson’s birthday. My daughter’s son. His birthday December the 18th. So I was here in Ocala. My wife was down on the island, Cedar Key island, in the schoolhouse for a program for the children, my grandchildren, who went to Cedar Key schools. My brick home decided to catch fire and destroy itself. Completely destroy itself. I had nothing left in this world except the clothes on my back. No material, nothing left.

Everything I had. Even money that I had in the house burned up.



	MR:	Coin collector, so—.



	LR:	Everything. December the 18th, 2003. Seven days before Christmas. And why I say history repeats itself, I decided to rebuild my house. Levy County refused to give me a permit to rebuild my house. I’d like to say something about Levy County. When I went into the office, permit office, to get a permit to rebuild my





house, I didn’t tell the people who I was. I walked up to the counter, and the lady came to the desk. I said, “Miss, I’d like to get a permit to repair my house.” “You can’t repair your house! You have to rebuild it!” I never told her who I was, now! But she knew in Bronson that my house in Rosewood couldn’t be repaired, it had to be rebuilt. A light went off in this old dummy’s head. How did this woman know that I had to rebuild my house? So I went along with the program. I said, “Lady, since I got to rebuild the house, give me my old blueprints and I’ll rebuild it.” “Oh, you can’t use them! They obsolete!” I say, “Well, give them to me anyway, and tell me what the new code is and I’ll bring them up to date.” “Oh, I can’t tell you that! You have to go to the library and look it up.” I said, “Well, give me the blueprints and I’ll go to the library.” “Well, I can’t do that, now. Because they downstairs locked up. And you have to come back Friday when I got somebody to go down there to get them.” So I left. Friday, instead of going back to the permit office, I went to the commissioner’s office in the courthouse. I say—I forget the man’s name right off the bat—I said, Mister whatever his name is, I say, “I have a idea. I’m going over to the permit office to get my blueprints for my house, but I have an idea that they going come up with some excuse why they can’t give it to me. And the lady told me to come back today, because there’s nobody to go downstairs to get them out of the files.” He say, “Oh, no, no, no.” So he got on the telephone, called the permit office. “I have Mr. Reynolds here, and he’s going to come over to get his blueprints.” “Oh, Mr. So-and-so, we can’t have nobody to go down to get them.” [Laughter] You know. Nobody to go get them.

He looked at me, and I looked, I say, “Well, I had an idea they were going come





up with something like that.” He said, “Well, you get somebody to go get them.” So I went over. They gave me the blueprints—but they didn’t give them to me, I had to pay eighteen dollars. Not to the permit office, but the building inspector. Now, what he had to do with the permit office, I don’t know. But the building inspector is what I had to make the check out to for my blueprints. Eighteen dollars. So, I looked at the blueprint. My foundation, before you come up with the bricks and whatnot on my brick home, was eighteen inches. And the new code say you have to have a twenty-inch foundation now. That was, I say, well, you got—now I’d have to dig into the ground to get the foundation—because I had the foundation there and the slab, you know, bricks, concrete slab, all I had to do was come on up with 2x4s and build a house. But I said, the eighteen inches, and the twenty inches; they know it was eighteen inches. So you know what that would have meant? Tear it down. Not that it need anything, but—. So. I didn’t get a permit. I didn’t get a permit to build my house. They wouldn’t give it to me.

Hunting season was coming on. And I lived on forty acres, surrounded by a paper company in Rosewood. Well, the paper company sold—it was International when I bought it, they sold it to Southwest, Southwest sold it to Georgia Pacific, and from paper company to paper company. Eventually, they sold it to a bunch of rich White people down in Port Richey, Florida who made a hunting club called the Big Buck Hunting Club. Now, it always was a hunting club out there: MacIntyre. Because they would come out and shoot a deer, something like that. Then say, “Come on, Reynolds. We going have a deer roast, come on down and have dinner with us.” For years, thirty years, they had MacIntyre. But





when the big rich White folks from Port Richey bought the property, they put fences around everything, called it “Big Buck Hunting Club.” Now I’m going go back a little bit, back on my story.

	M:	Okay.



	LR:	Okay. A couple of fellows came out, wanted to hunt from town. Friends of ours. So I say, “Sure.” I don’t hunt. Because it used to be a big buck would come into my backyard every evening about five o’clock. And he’d bring about four or five does with him. He would eat while they played. They would, I see them back there clapping they hands together. And I saw him out there, and he had a rack on his head. That’s a eight-point buck! I got my gun, and I said, “Ooooh!” I put it right dead on him. He raised that head up and looked at me and shook it. I say, “You too pretty to shoot.” [Laughter] I took my gun back and put it back. And that was the biggest mistake I ever made. He wasn’t afraid of humans after that.

Because he see me out there, he know I wasn’t going to hurt him. So he didn’t pay me no attention. But the big White hunters from Port Richey shot him up at what you call Moody Gray, it was the next road up the road from me. I happened to see him going down to the waystation. I said, “Where did you get that deer?” “Oh, you wouldn’t know, it was up by Moody Gray.” I say, “I bet you he stood there and let you shoot him.” “How did you know?” And I looked at him. He wasn’t a eight-point buck. He had nine points. He had a beautiful rack on his head. Hurt me. I said after, if I’d have shot over his head, that’d’ve made him scared and run. Therefore, he would’ve known to run. But I didn’t do that. But I’m saying that to—I’m staying my story with the Big Buck Hunting Club. Well, the





two fellows came out to hunt on my property. They shot a couple of deer. You know, two deer, one apiece? The Big Buck Hunting Club people went to town and told the fellows that came out to my property they couldn’t hunt. They going to tell them what they could do on my property. This my property! You know, in Rosewood. I say, “Where do they get off telling people they can’t come on my property?” But, let me tell you: it was six hundred acres, six hundred and some acres, surrounding my little forty, that used to belong to the paper company. Well, all these rich folks from Port Richey bought all the six hundred acres from the paper company except my forty. So, I forget his name—I got it on a piece of paper in my file at home—but he came, he said, “Would you like to sell your property to the Big Buck?” I said, “No, my property is not for sale. I’m not selling.” So, that’s when my problems started. My animals laid down—going back to what I said before. All my borra goats in the field laid down and died. Then, while my wife was in Cedar Key and I was here in Ocala, my brick home decided to destroy itself. The fire marshal said, “Cause of fire unknown.” Now, I’m not no fire marshal. But I looked at Perry Mason and all them people, and they can find a matchstick in there, and they say, “Well, the fire started from such and such and such.” “Fire unknown.” Now—

MR:  Let me chime here a minute. Now, speaking about that fire, we had, what was it, six or seven fire companies to come to this fire with no water.

LR:  Oh, yeah. We didn’t get to the water part. They came with no water pumps. I had a swimming pool in my backyard full of water. Plus I had a little pond not far from the house, right with fish in it. Because I used to fish in it, people’d come fish.





They came with no water on the fire truck, plus the pumps they brought with them didn’t work. They couldn’t pump water from my pool, [inaudible 16:04]. So my house was completely destroyed. I’m not joking! If I’d known it was going to do [this], I’d have brought something—because I usually carry it with me.

	MR:	Those coins.



	LR:	I know, I usually carry it with me, each and every—I got pictures to show you what my house looked like, and what it looked like December the 19th, 2003. Nothing. And how wrong could I have been? I told my wife, “Bricks don’t burn.” [Laughter] But they do. The bricks didn’t burn. The bricks didn’t burn. But, the fire was so hot, the mortar between the bricks crumbled the bricks when it fell in. And everything was destroyed. The furniture, the roof—everything. If I had, I have pictures that I carry with me, and I just—well, I was doing my checkbook, and, doing bills, so I left it on the desk at home. I carry it with me each and every day. I was telling a lady about it yesterday when I went to get my truck, the oil changed. I was telling her about Rosewood. I don’t know why I was talking about it, but I—you know. [Laughter] I forget what the conversation—but it came up Rosewood. But I made a big mistake when I said, “Bricks don’t burn!” I had absolutely nothing. No material, nothing. I’m not joking.

	MR:	You know, but the people on the island were very nice. The school, they took up a collection for us, all the churches down in that area. The people were really nice.

	LR:	Oh, well, the local people, we had been there— MR:	And they knew us very well.





	LR:	They knew us. All that, when we first moved there, they were kind of reluctant, I guess. Because here we were, colored people moving back into Rosewood.

Everything was White. We were the only people of color anywhere here. So, they didn’t resent it.

	MR:	They accepted us.



	LR:	But eventually, as the years went by, they would come to me. I had a tractor, and farming equipment where I farmed and whatnot, on my forty acres. You know, I had to do something. So they would come and say, “Well, Mr. Reynolds, we’d like to get a plow this, or do this.” So, they got to know us, you know. And my wife was affiliated down at the school. And my grandchildren went to Cedar Key, too. And on top of it, my granddaughter represented the county, Levy County, at the governor’s mansion. From Cedar Key. So we were known. Everybody knew the Reynoldses, because we were the only ones that—and we got along with the local people, until the Big Buck rich people came in, and put their Big Buck Hunting Club in. Now, the kicker was, after they went to town, told the people they couldn’t hunt on my property, the Big Buck people put a gate across my road! And the road led to nowhere but to my home. This before the fire. This is before the fire. So now, if you wanted to come and visit me, you couldn’t get into my house because there’s a gate across the road. You know, that’s what they did. And I went to the county and said—

	MR:	How could they do this?



	LR:	How could they do it? They say, well— MR:	They gave us a key. They gave us a key.





	LR:	You know what the county told me? They have a right to put a gate there to protect their property. Their property was nothing but woods on this side, woods on this side—the only resident or any cultivation of anything was my property. My field was cultivated, my home, and everything. But the rest around me, all woods. No houses, no nothing but woods. They had a “right to protect their property.” Put a gate across my field. So they said, they gave me a key. And the county say, “Well, they gave you a key.” I say, “Well, suppose you want to come visit me. Do you have a key to open it?” He didn’t answer me. I say, well—in other words, people can’t come. I’m just—.

	MR:	Isolated.



	LR:	That’s Levy County. I’m talking about Levy County! Levy County hasn’t changed from 1923 to 2003. I don’t know about now. But 2003, Levy County was the same as it was in 1923, as far as I was concerned. And I don’t say it lightly. I don’t say this lightly. But, Black people are afraid of White people that live in Levy County. I’m not joking.

	MR:	Mmhm. But we were different.



	LR:	They are afraid of White people. Black people—I’m not joking! [Laughter] I’m going to say this: people used to, you know, since we lived out there in Rosewood, Black people would come visit us. But dusk dark—[claps hands]— they had to get out of there. I never knew why! [Laughter] But they didn’t want to let night catch them in Rosewood, because they were afraid of White people. I’m not joking! Now, I’m going to say this: it was a prominent Black person. It was a prominent Black person. And I say prominent. And he did something is in my





mind and I’ll never forget it. I’ve heard these things, but I never saw it until he did it. This prominent person said, “Reynolds, I know you have a fireplace, and I know where we can get some wood for your fireplace.” I said, “Okay.” So he say, “You have a chainsaw, don’t you?” I say, “Yes.” So he says, “Okay. Well, get your chainsaw and come with me.” So I got my chainsaw, and he took me over to this White man’s property. And let me tell you: this prominent Black person was the boss of the White person where we were cutting the tree. He was the boss of this White person. So I was down there cutting the wood, and he said—I ain’t going to tell you the man’ name—so he say, “So-and-so, you know, that boy’s doing a good job. You ought to get down there with him and do it, too!” He said, [makes laughing/stuttering noises, pantomimes shuffling]. I had never in my life saw—I’ve heard of shuffling your feet, and doing that kind of stuff. But I saw it, I looked—I say, “How can this man be a prominent person in the community, and the White man’s boss, and do that?” But he did it. And I—it’s a shame to talk about the dead. This person passed not too long ago. He’s not here. But here is, that was a prominent—that’s what the Black people in Levy County are. They afraid of White people. I used to say when you cross from Marion County into Levy County, years ago, you cross from 1900 into 1800. [Laughter] Because that’s the way I looked at Marion—you know, I’m a native Floridian. My family— I’ll put it this way: my mother—I’m going to talk about my mother’s side. My mother was born in Florida. Columbia County. My grandmother was born in Florida, in Columbia County. What happened is, my grandmother witnessed a lynching in Columbia County. Columbia County had a record, I ain’t going tell





you—I don’t know if you ever heard of Columbia County. But they have a record of misusing Black people. I don’t like to use the word, but they’d say “Colored fry on Saturday night”—they didn’t use “Colored,” they used the n-word—“on Friday night.” And then they’d drag them behind pulpwood trucks after they fry them.

Well, my grandmother witnessed a lynching in 1900, turn of the century. And my grandfather says, “Time to move.” So, they left Columbia County, they moved into Marion County. A lot of people don’t know, Marion County was a progressive county for Black people. We were Colored at the time, Colored people. I been— since we talking about it, I’m going tell you—I’ve been four or five different things in my lifetime. [Laughter] I been a Negro, I been ‘Black,’—and it’s one thing I’m definitely, and truthfully, though of course they use it derogatorily—I’m ‘Colored.’ I am still Colored, and I’ll always be Colored. But now this ‘Afro-American’ that they got me being now, it’s nobody in my family I can trace back to Africa. But somewhere along the line, somebody way back somewhere or another, came from Africa. Because I’m brown-skinned, you know. So brown—of course, he didn’t have to come from Africa. He could have come from one of them Hawaiian islands, Tahiti or something, because they brown-skinned, too. But I’ll say that.

But going back, my grandmother moved to Marion County because it was a progressive county as far as Colored people concerned. A lot of people don’t know it, and you probably don’t know it. But Marion County, when I was going to school here, had a Colored bank on the corner of Broadway and Magnolia Street. Owned by Colored people. I don’t know another other Colored bank in the state of Florida, but Ocala had a bank, Colored bank. All up and down Broadway was





Colored businesses, Black-owned businesses. Doctor Hampton owned most of Broadway—businesses on Broadway.

	MR:	Getting back to Rosewood, Leonard: when we first moved there, we needed all kinds of equipment; refrigerators, this, that, and the other thing. So, we went up to—what was that store? Anyway, we went up to the store, we seeked out, purchasing the refrigerators, the—everything that we needed for the house. All right? We paid for it. And must’ve been about a couple of months later, the proprietor came down to the house. He said, “You know, I’m getting in some new supplies. I think we could bring your equipment down to you.” I said okay. Okay. So he came down that day. He said, “Before you get excited, let me tell you this: I sold yours, but I bought you another one!” I said, “You did what?” He said, “I sold what you had, but I bought you this.” I said, “I didn’t purchase that. I want what I bought.” So he said, “What?” I said, “You wanted me to have that. But I wanted what I bought.” He also had our sale receipt on the side of the cash register, so everybody in town could see what we bought, and how much it would cost. So I said, “You know what? You just give me my money back. You can leave that here, but I still want my money.” And I said, “And to make sure that the check is good that you going to write me,” I went to the bank with him to see if the check was good. He said, “You a tough lady to deal with!” I said, “You don’t know the half of it!” [Laughter] He was running for county commissioner. I said, “You know one thing? I wouldn’t vote for you anyway.” I said, “You don’t even know how to do business properly.” I said, “You’re a phony.” “No, no no no! I’m an upstanding individual here!” “I don’t care! You did us wrong.” I said, “Let me





tell you something: if you and your boys come down here in some white sheets, I’m going fill you so full of holes you going look like Swiss cheese!” [Laughter] So he said, “Oh, no no no no! Oh no, I don’t belong to that organization!” I said, “Well, I’m just letting you know right now: if you come down here, you’ll be all flat out there looking like Swiss cheese!” [Laughter] So he left. We have had some pretty bad times down there.

	M:	And that was when you first came down? MR:	Yeah, that’s when we first moved here.

	SD:	Tell them about your mailbox. M:	So that’s around what time? SD:	The rats in the mailbox.

	MR:	Oh, all kinds of things! The fellows would go out there and they would shoot deer or something, like. They would skin them and leave them in the road so we would either have to go around it or whatever. They would put, like she said, rats— anything—into our mailbox.

	M:	They’d just leave them in there for you?



	MR:	Of course! They wanted us to see! [Laughter] And when we first moved there, it was Reynolds Road. The paper company or whatever, they named it Reynolds Road after us. But after a while, they took the sign down there, and they put up a numbered road. Wasn’t it, Lenny?

	LR:	Hm?



	MR:	It was a numbered road that they put—





	LR:	Well, the paper company said, they gave an easement to this road. You know, the road was there, but it wasn’t drivable. So, I forget the man’ name, he lived in Williston. He was in charge of the paper company. He sent his crew out there.

They put two—it was a creek running across the road in two spots. He put two culverts in and graded it for me so I’d have a road to drive in and out from my property. That’s what the paper company did for me. And they put a sign up there, said “Reynolds Road.” And it was in the post office in Chiefland.

	MR:	On the map.



	LR:	On the map in Chiefland: “Reynolds Road.” They had three road: they had Moody Road, Reynolds Road, and Purdue Road. Now, let me tell you what they did: later on, they came down. They took the wooden signs down. They put a metal sign, say “Moody Road.” Came down to my road, took my sign down, threw it in the bushes—because I found it in the bushes—and put “41st St.” They went on down to Purdue Road, and put a metal sign say, “Purdue Road.” [Laughter] And it’s still like that now. I’m not joking!

	SD:	That’s right. Still there today. M:	Wow.

	LR:	I’m going tell you, Levy County’s something! Oh, let me tell you—getting back to Levy County. The reason we lived there—see, I retired from Washington, D.C. I say, “Well, I’m going back home to live.” I wanted to come back to Florida, because I couldn’t pay the taxes up there! [Laughter] Let me say this, and then I’m going go on with the story: last year, I went to get my daughter. She was in Maryland. I decided to go by my old house, the one I used to own in Washington.





I bought this house, 721 Farragut Place, in 1959, for $11,500. 1959. I sold it in 1963 for $16,000. I thought I got over. Two years ago, I went to get my daughter from Maryland. I decided to go by and see what the old house looked like, 721 Farragut Place, northeast Washington, D.C. It was a For Sale sign on the lawn. The house was the same, no nothing, and they had some brochures right outside where the For Sale sign was. Beautiful home, finished basement—which I finished before I left, because I remodeled it. You guess how much that house was selling for.

	JD:	I’d say about $700,000?



	LR:	That’s what it sold for! $750,000. And I say—[Laughter] That’s exactly what it sold for! $750,000! I can’t believe it! Well, let’s get back to what I’m saying. [Laughter] Rosewood. Well, when I left Washington, I came to Ocala. My old homestead here. You may not know Tucker Hill, here in town. That’s where the old homestead was. I stayed there. But I wanted to live in the country, because I wanted to raise chickens, and if I wanted some pigs or whatever, nobody say, “Well, they stink,” and this, that, and the other. Well, when I left Ocala to go north, we had chickens in the chicken yard, we had a cow that I hated because I had to take it out and stake it every day. Milk cow. But now they passed a law, you can’t have chickens in town anymore, and cows, and things like that. Residential now, they got all that residential and all that other junk going. Codes and whatnot.

Well, I graduated from Howard Academy. High School. Went on to, up, New York and whatnot, up north. Well, when I came back to Ocala, I looked for some property in the country, where I wanted to live. When I left Ocala, back when I





graduated, you could buy any acre of land here in Marion County for five or six hundred dollars an acre. But while I was gone, they brought these horses in. The horses wasn’t here when I left. But these horses came in, the land went from five or six hundred dollars an acre, to five or six thousand dollars an acre. I say, “Well, I can’t afford that!”

	MR:	Mmhm.



	LR:	So, I was looking around, and they had a sign out in Blitchton, say three-acre ranch at $1500, $500 down. So I went out, you know, drove out there. Talked to the man. He say, “This is not what you want.” I said, “Why?” He said, “Well, this is not what you looking for.” I knew what he was talking about; he didn’t say it in so many words, but this wasn’t for Colored folk. That’s what he’s trying to say. [Laughter] He say, “Well, I know a man that sell you some property,” you know. So he called Joe King—

	MR:	Jim King.



	LR:	Jim King, in Chiefland. He say, “Meet this man, he’ll be in a Cadillac at Otter Creek.” I had never heard of no Otter Creek, I—! [Laughter] He say, well—I say, “Otter Creek?” He say, “Oh, yeah. You go up here, you hit 19, you make a right turn, and you go up, you see a sign that say ‘Otter Creek.’ He’ll be sitting there in the Cadillac.” So I did it. So I talked to Jim King. He say, “Well, what are you looking for?” I say, “I’m looking for about five acres where I can raise some chickens and hogs, where I won’t be bothering anybody.” So he took me to a place and say, “This is five acres.” I say, “How much is it?” He say, seven hundred and fifty dollars an acre. Well, I had $3500 in my pocket. I say, “Sold!” I





was going pay him cash money right there for the five acres. He say, “Oh, no, no. Let me show you something else.” So he took me a couple of more places. Say, eleven hundred for this, and ten acres, and da da da da da da. Eight hundred for this or that. I say, “No, no, I’m satisfied with the five acres.” He say, “Let me show you one other place.” So, he took me to Rosewood. I didn’t know nothing about no Rosewood. I never heard of the place. And we went up, not the road that I’d usually go to the house, but it was another road that came in from the back way. It’s still there, but they got it fenced off now. Brought me in, and when I came in, on both sides of the road, wasn’t nothing but palmetto trees. And palmetto palms? Beautiful! He say, “This is forty acres.” He say, “forty acres, four hundred dollars an acre.” I say, “Nah, nah, nah, nah.” But I looked at it. He say, “Well, we’ll go to town, we’ll go sign up for the five acres.” You know, I was going to buy it. So, when we got to his office, I say, “Them forty acres: would you take $300 an acre for it?” He say no, no, he can’t do that. So he went back, he come back and he say, “Can you give me $500 down?” I had $3500 in my pocket. [Laughter] I say, “Will you take a check, an out of state check?” He say “Yeah.” So I wrote him a $500 check on the Bank of Washington, D.C., for the forty acres in Rosewood—not knowing what I—. [Laughter] But, what it was, I finally found out, that the property that I bought, once belonged to Colored people, that the rich white people in Chiefland bought for taxes. Got, when all the Colored people ran away, they escaped from the massacre and all? They left the property, and all the rich people in Chiefland bought all the property down there. The property I got, Drummond. Luther Drummond, the man that owned the bank in Washington,





he got the Luther Drummond bank right there in Chiefland now. His sister had our property, and I paid her for the property. My property was in a section of Rosewood they call Crooked Sapling. I learned all of this as years went by. But that’s how I got to Rosewood.

	JD:	And what year was this?



	LR:	1977. I bought it in 197—I was in Washington. I hadn’t retired, yet. But I bought this property in 1977. And then when I left Washington, I didn’t go out to the property, because I had, I came home to Ocala. Because it was nothing out there but woods. So I got together, I drew the blueprints of the house that I wanted to build, and took it down to the, you know. And they were nice about it when I first went down there. They took my blueprints and everything, they gave me a permit. I forget what a permit cost back in 1977. But it wasn’t that expensive, about two, three dollars maybe; I don’t even know. But anyway, we literally built the house ourselves. The only thing I didn’t do was lay the bricks. I had a man from Williston to lay the bricks. And when he laid the bricks, I bought first, this was the Scotty’s, and West’s. They had in a place in Gainesville called West. “Buy it at West, you get it for less.” And “get the best at West for less.” So you know, I bought that—

	DP:	That’s a lumber company. That’s right, that’s a lumber company.



	LR:	So, I bought the materials, all my roofing materials came from West or Scotty’s.



I’m not joking. I even had my wife on top the roof laying shingles.



	MR:	He always managed to get sick, that I ended up doing that.





	LR:	You know, I had her on the roof, and I showed her how to put the shingles down.



But we built the house. I’m not joking. And cleared the land. I even bought a bulldozer to clear the land, at one of the auctions. And I cleared the—it was cheaper to buy it than to rent it. I think I paid $2200 for this bulldozer. And I sold it for a thousand, so actually it only cost me $1200. [Laughter] But I cleared all of my fields, I made five different fields and whatnot. And so, that’s the way I got to Rosewood. And up until 2003. Actually, I liked it out there. Nobody liked it because it was so far out in the bushes and whatnot. But it was a freedom that you couldn’t ask, until those Big Buck people came along. And money, I’m going to tell you, talk. Money still talks. Because the county went along with the big money even though I was a taxpayer, paying on a house and everything. That’s more than what they were paying for them woods, because they had nothing on the woods. Nothing else but woods. It was a big corporation of rich people. So, let me tell you. Let me go back to Levy County. So when hunting season was coming up, I said, “Momma, it’s time to get out of here, because hunting accidents happen.” Since everything else was happening. And if somebody gets shot during a hunting accident, it’s nothing done about it. It’s just a accident. I’d be dead, and that’s it, whatever. So I say, “Let’s get away from here.” Because I could see the handwriting on the wall. I have in my home here, out here, where we live now, a drawer full of violation notices. Everything else that was standing out there on our property had a violation notice on it. The barn behind our house had a violation—two violation notices. One of them said it was an unsafe building. And another one said I built it without a permit. I had an operating farm.





The law in the state of Florida, which I happen to know a little bit about, says when you have a barn or a shed that’s open on both ends, it’s not considered a shed. It’s called a pole barn. And you do not need a permit to build a pole barn on an operating farm. A permit. You don’t—it’s right today, it’s on the books, you don’t need a permit to build a pole barn on your property on an operating farm. A permit. But I knew that, but they put them on anyway. I got all these permits, I kept them. I kept them just for the heck of it, I don’t know why.

	MR:	But you know what? After you’ve been on property, say twenty-five years, everything should be grandfathered in.

	LR:	Ain’t nobody said nothing about it for twenty-five years. [Laughter] But all of the sudden, when the Big Buck people wanted to buy our property, I had violation notices. Now, I had a mule, a donkey, and two goats left out there. And two dogs. They came out and cut the electricity off where the pump—you know, my pumps and everything worked on electricity. You know. They put a violation notice down to the animal control people, I wasn’t feeding and watering my animals. I couldn’t water them because they cut the electricity off to the pump! So I told, I said, “Let me go get these animals quick.” So, they were on they way to confiscate my mule and donkey and the goat, and they had the nerve to say the dogs was running wild.

	MR:	On that forty acres.



	LR:	Loose. They were running loose, on forty acres in the woods. Nothing out there. The dogs ain’t going nowhere. But they was running loose on forty acres. I’m not joking! Levy County. I got the notices, black and white, on a piece of paper. How





well you going chain up a dog running loose on forty acres, and woods all around? They not going anywhere. As a matter of fact, one of the dogs that was running loose died right here in Ocala. And I took her to get rid of her, because I didn’t want anyone—I took her to town and let her loose. You know that dog came all the way from Chiefland, all the way back home? Fwoo! She did. That Diamond. Didn’t she, Momma?

	MR:	Mmhm.



	LR:	Diamond came all the way—well, I said, “If you did that, Diamond, you going stay here for—you got a home for the rest of your life.” [Laughter] Then on top of it, Diamond was a good dog. She was a good dog. She was a German Shepherd.

	SD:	That was that big dog.



	LR:	Yeah, let me tell you: Diamond was protective. Oh, man, you couldn’t beat her. Well, she done, when she died—she never did this before—when she got ready to die, she jumped up in the bed and laid down. Remember, Momma? She laid down in my granddaughter’s bed, laid down and died. But Diamond came home. But I went out there with my trailer and got my animals—the mules, and the goats. And the dogs. The county was right behind me to come confiscate them. And let me tell you, getting back to the property. I said, well, I went to Century 21 or somebody, here in Ocala to sell the property. The man put a For Sale sign on it at the road. “For Sale.” The people in Levy County—Big Buck people, probably—took the sign and threw it in the bushes. Man came out, he said, “Something happen to it?” I said, “I don’t know.” He put another sign out there.

That sign disappeared, too. So I say, “Well, the only way to sell it now, or get rid





of it, is go through Chiefland. So I went back to where I bought it from, Jim King. He passed, but his son running the real estate now. Jim King Realty. It’s still there on Main Street in Chiefland. I went out Doug’s—Doug, his name was Doug—Doug King. I say, “Doug, I want to sell the property”— “I’ve got a buyer for your property!” You know who bought it? A doctor from Port Richey, in the Big Buck clique. And he didn’t pay what the property was worth.

	MR:	Sure didn’t.



	LR:	He didn’t pay what the property was worth. My property was worth, after clearing and fencing fields, and clearing, it was worth a half a million dollars, at least. I’ll say 300,000 at least. That was getting it cheap, at three hundred. But I didn’t get that. But I say, “Well, okay. You got a deal.” I sold it. I said, good riddance. I got more than I paid for it. And I’m not hurting. I got a place here, and I don’t worry. You know, at one time—I say I been lucky all my life. My daddy died, and I inherited forty acres in Columbia County. And—that’s my stomach. [Stomach gurgles]

	M:	That’s all right. [Laughter]



	LR:	I inherited forty acres, and—the people up there, just to show you how Columbia County people just like Levy, they took two acres of my forty and sold it. They say, “You never had forty. You only had thirty-eight acres.” Even though I paid taxes on forty acres for years. I say, “What about all the money I paid in taxes?” “Well, you write the state. See if you can get your money back.” You know, that’s like getting money out of this sofa. [Laughter] But you know, I’m supposed to go—and to show you, my daughter, the one that’s right here, the one right here





went up there with me when they stole them two acres from me? They threw her and me and everybody out of doors. “Get out before we call the police and lock you up!” Columbia County. So, what it was, them forty acres I had there, I wanted

$3000 an acre. I say, “No longer do I want $3000 an acre. I want $3500 an acre. Anybody want to buy, that’s what it costs.” So a man came to me, he said, “I want to buy that forty acres, that thirty-eight acres you got.” I say, “I want $3500 an acre, and I don’t want nothing taken out of it, no this, that or—I want $3500, period. If you can do that, it’s yours. If you can’t get that with no nothing taken out, it’s not for sale.” He bought it. I got thirty-five that way. Because you supposed to pay the taxes and all them things; I didn’t want to pay nothing. I want $3500. Of course, I looked at what he, he went up there, and he made a community out of it.

	MR:	Bunch of homes up there now. [Laughter]



	LR:	Homes. He put homes on the forty acres up there. He sold them probably for a hundred thousand apiece or something like that. He made money, you know. Big money. I don’t care, I made some money.

	MR:	But you know, getting back to Rosewood, now, Ms. DuPree had a group—I can’t remember the name of your group here.

	SD:	Rosewood Heritage Foundation.



	MR:	Rosewood Heritage Foundation. Well, they would come out and have tours, and we would cook dinner and everything for them. Sometimes we would meet at our yard, or we could go up to the—

	SD:	Down to the museum.





	MR:	Museum, or there. And so I thought that was nice. And after a while, they left, and we left. [Laughter] But—

	SD:	I wanted to ask you, how well did you all know Scoggins? LR:	Scoggins?

	MR:	Chevrolet dealer.



	LR:	Oh, we know Scoggins and his Japanese wife? What’s her name, Hunki or Munki or, I forget her name—

	SD:	[Laughter] Fuji.



	MR:	Fuji!



	LR:	Fuji! I knew it was something like that. MR:	Yeah, we knew them pretty well.

	LR:	We knew them. You know. We knew everybody— MR:	And they knew us.

LR:  —in the area, because they were local. And Scoggins was pretty nice as far as I was concerned. I’ve been over there to ask for several things. And Fuji gave me a bunch of honey or something or other.

MR:  Yeah, she—



	SD:	Yeah, that’s right, they had all the, they had all those honey bees over there. MR:	Right, right.

	LR:	Yeah, she gave me two, three jars of honey. I didn’t buy it, she was selling. She’d give it to me. Yeah, well, you know, I got along with them.

	SD:	They got along with everybody. How about the Hodges out there?





	MR:	We knew them, too. But the nicest man down there was the, when we had the house fire, he came and brought his trailer for us to stay on.

	LR:	Oh, yeah—oh! Oh, yeah! Yeah, let me tell you about it, getting back to Levy County again! [Laughter] One of the, he used to be—it was Ridgeway?

	MR:	Ridgeway.



	LR:	I think it was Ridgeway. He had a shop on the island. And then he sold his shop. Because I used to go down to sit and shoot the breeze there. He built the boat, and I’d go fishing with him. You know. So, but he bought some property on 347.

	SD:	Okay.



	LR:	Okay. He had a trailer you hook behind your truck to pull. Got it, had everything: bathrooms, cooking facilities, sleeping, you know. He say since my house burned, “use my trailer to live in while you rebuild your house” and whatnot. Levy County came down and said, “You cannot live in the trailer over two weeks.” But that and still the big White hunters could come up in November, and with their trailers they stay until February hunting. In their trailer. But here, I’m a property owner, couldn’t live over two weeks on my own property that I’m paying taxes on. But hunters that don’t own nothing could come up in the woods, hunting club— I’m going tell you, Levy—you tell me about Levy, these are not things that I’m making up! Levy County told me I could not live in a trailer over two weeks.

	MR:	But if you go out there in the area, most of the people live in trailers. SD:	Thank you.

	MR:	Most of the people live in—





	LR:	You go to town, you go to Chiefland, I can show you mobile homes where people have been living for years in them.

	SD:	And that’s what we point out when we go down there.



	LR:	But out there in the woods, in Rosewood, I couldn’t live over two weeks. I’m not joking!

	SD:	Mmhm, mmhm, mmhm.



	LR:	Don’t tell me about Levy County.



	SD:	Did you have any concerns down there with the Baptist Church, the Rosewood Baptist Church? Did you ever have any response with them, any correspondence with them?

	LR:	Oh, we went to church down at—sometimes, didn’t we, Momma?



	MR:	We did. But now, they would—was it the Baptist Church, the man go up— LR:	It was the Baptist church on the road.

	SD:	Baptist church, yes.



	MR:	But, he brought his trailer—what was it, his bulldozer, or something, from out there, cleared the—

	LR:	Yeah, they cleaned the slab off so I could build my house back up. SD:	Okay.

	LR:	You know, all the debris on the top of the slab? SD:	Yes.

	LR:	He brought his bulldozer, and he swept—dug a hole, and swept all the stuff on the top, all the stuff on top of my slab, and buried it for me. And covered it up and smoothed it up, and all I had was, about two feet off the ground, a slab. Concrete





slab. All I had to do was build up 2x4s. In other words, I could just go get some 2x4s, and go and lay them together, sand them up. I got a wall that I—you know, it’s nothing to build or nothing. Because all you had to do is—it’s simple! But I wasn’t going to build no brick house again. I was going to build 2x4s, and get some siding—the wood siding?—and nail it to the 2x4s! [Laughter]

	MR:	You probably would’ve stuccoed it or something.



	LR:	Yeah, well, I was just going to put some wooden slabs on the top, and put some—you know, they come in rows. Insulation, it’s all wrapped in paper, in the rolls? Tack it in there, up there, and put sheetrock over top of it. That’s it. That’s what I was going to—I could, I could do it, you know. But I’m not able to do all of those things now.

	MR:	No.



	LR:	I done got to the place in life where I don’t want to build anything. Certain things I want to do, I get up in the morning, I go to bed at night, and I say, “I’m going to do this, that, and the other”—but when I get up in the morning, I don’t feel like it. [Laughter] But I go to bed with the inspiration I’m going get up and I’m going do this, that, and the other; and when I do go out and get inspiration to do something, something else happen. Like, yesterday, I went out, I say, “Well, I’ll go fix the umbrella.” We had a high wind the other day, and it broke some of the pieces in the umbrella, over the—

	MR:	A real big, strong wind came through here.



	LR:	And I had sticks where they broke off. I was going, I brought some superglue, and I was going superglue them and tape it. So I put the umbrella back; the





sticks is gone. So I say, “Well, that’s that. That’s the end of the umbrella.” Because the sticks. See, the sticks would’ve matched when they broke. All I had to do was lay them together with the superglue and tape it. But they gone, so the umbrella gone now. Twenty-dollar umbrella.

	SD:	[Laughter] I wanted you to mention a little bit about your ammunition. Your guns, and the things that you had in your house.

	MR:	The day of the fire, remember, that—well, the sheriff wouldn’t even let, it was one standing right there by the door. You can talk about that.

	SD:	Talk about it. LR:	About what?

	MR:	About the gun you had right by the—



	LR:	Oh, man—oh, the police wouldn’t even let me get to my—you know, I bought a shotgun. My son wanted me to leave it, he wanted to inherit my shotgun. It was a double-barreled shotgun. I bought it at Sears and Roebucks. Sixty dollars I paid for it when I bought it. You know what a double-barreled shotgun, thirty-inch barrel would cost you nowadays? Four, five hundred dollars. But I had it right at the front door. You know, sitting there? You know, they wouldn’t even let me get up to the front door to grab my shotgun out of there? Of course, the firemen was in there going through my things. You know, getting what they want. They were inside, but I couldn’t get through the door. “You don’t interfere with the firemen!” They in there doing, going through my things. Was a lot of things I saw, even after the fire, was missing. I know basically what I had. And even if you have a fire, it should be laying on the ground or something. It wasn’t there.





	SD:	Mention your coin collections, because you were collecting. MR:	Oh, yeah, that’s a great—

	SD:	Mention your coin collection.



	MR:	I’m sure the people that are on that property now— LR:	You know one thing?

	SD:	Hey, they really could get some money.



	LR:	A lot of people don’t know. A lot of people don’t know. I was a avid coin collector. SD:	That’s right.

	LR:	I had every Morgan silver dollar, except one. It came out in 1878. I had a seven tailfeather, 1878. Eight tailfeather, 1878. The only Morgan silver dollar that I didn’t have was the 1895. But I had all the rest of them. I had all of the peace dollars, all of the peace dollars that came out after the Morgans. 1922. See, I knew that, you know—because I collected them. And I got, I started buying from the Mint, back in 1960. Proof sets. I got three proofs from the Mint every year from 1960 up until 2003. That was the Philadelphia Mint, that’s a “P.” Denver Mint, that’s a “D.” And the San Francisco Mint. Do you know what a 1961—one, I think it is, one or two—1961 or 196[2]—you know what that one uncirculated set that I got from the Mint was worth today? Fifteen hundred dollars. Any one of them. The B, the P, or the S. All burned up. I have coins—

	MR:	I mean, if you see how this money had welded together; it was terrible.



	LR:	Oh, I got money. I got some half a dollars all welded together. I mean where they crumpled and weld—silver dollars. You know. You know what that Morgan—just the Morgans—was worth? From 1878 to—I have no idea what you could—but





just the [18]95 missing. The whole, complete collection. But it took something out of me, my coin collecting. I tried to start collecting, but I don’t have the—the, I forget the word I want to use. I don’t have the fever to do it like I used to. I used to be running around, looking at coins and—! [Laughter] Because I had, I started off with pennies. Because my daughter started me off collecting pennies. I had a complete Indian Head penny set. From 1861 up until 1909. That’s when the Indian Heads stopped, then Lincoln came out. See, I know all about that. Plus, I had the Flying Eagle penny, which was the first small set. That was 1859, 1860. I had all of that. And, you know, when all of them—and all of them Mercury Dimes, all them pretty Mercury Dimes I had—.

	SD:	Best collection I’d ever seen. Mmhm.



	LR:	I had—but I miss those silver dollars. I even got from the Mint, back in 1970—I think it was [19]78 or somewhere along there—Carson City silver dollars. Made from the Carson City mint mark. C.C., on the silver dollars. Comlode Stock [Comstock Lode], they called it the Comlode Strike back in the 18[00s]? I had all of that. And don’t mention my paper money! When the fire hit— [Laughter] I had, I always kept a couple of thousand dollars in the house.

	MR:	In the house. Always.



	LR:	All my paper money. I don’t know if it burned up, or if the—of course, it wasn’t there when the fire was over. So I don’t know whether the firemen, whatever, but the paper money was gone.

	MR:	I know whoever has that property now, I know they’re digging up— SD:	It’s riches.





	MR:	They’re still digging up money. SD:	They still digging.

	MR:	That’s right.



	LR:	Well, this doctor, he was in the hunting club, too, you know. M:	Did you ever meet the guy, or—?

	LR:	Oh, the guy that bought the property? Yeah, he had a couple—we had to go to closing together. He got it for way less than what it was worth. Of course, now, to him, it’s worth something. To me, it’s worth nothing. Because I had nothing left.

	The house was burned, and all my animals gone, and—I had nothing out there. SD:	And then she had all the plants out there. You had all kinds of flowers and plants.

I mean, rare stuff! I haven’t seen anyone, different kinds of bushes and all that that were out there. They were beautiful. And all that’s gone.

	MR:	Yeah, that’s right, my greenhouse was there— SD:	Yeah, she had a greenhouse out there.

	LR:	I lost things in that fire that you couldn’t replace. MR:	You can’t.

	SD:	You can’t replace what was taken.



	LR:	I had pictures of my grandmother when she was a young thing. She was a beauty.

	SD:	Mmhm.



	LR:	My grandmother was a beautiful lady. I can see why my grandfather wanted her! [Laughter] Because she was a beautiful thing. I’m not joking! Of course, now, when she got older, she was wrinkled all up. But I mean, but—





	MR:	That’s the Indian in her. [Laughter] SD:	That’s the Indian, now—

	LR:	And would you believe—I’m going to tell you something: I don’t know if you go down to the Park Department, they got brochures on Willoughby Park in Ocala? If you look at Willis Willoughby, he is yellow complexion, straight hair, and he married a Native American. That was my grandmother’s father and mother. [Laughter]

	SD:	Willoughby! Okay.



	MR:	Well, the park, you know, named after him.



	LR:	Yeah, and that was my grandmother’ father and mother. Willoughby, Willis Willoughby—I don’t know what part of Africa that White man with his straight hair that married a Indian came from. [Laughter] But he’s an “African American.”

SD:  Would you go back and give us your mother’s name and your father’s name? I know you talked about them, but you didn’t mention their names. So we have it for the record.

LR:  Well, oh—



SD:  Just your mother’s name.



	LR:	My mother’s name? She was a Fryer. SD:	What’s her full name?

	LR:	Her name was Amy Evelyn Fryer Reynolds.



	SD:	All right, he’s got it. And then your father’s full name.



	LR:	His name was Arthur—I don’t know all that—I mean, I don’t know any more than Reynolds.







MR:



SD:

Arthur, that.



Mmhm. Arthur Reynolds. And where was he from?

LR:

Lake City.

SD:

He was Lake City too, okay.

MR:

Mmhm, mmhm.

M:

And you mentioned your grandmother, too. What was her name?

LR:

Her name was—she changed her name. [Laughter]

SD:

Most of us did.

LR:

She, you know, dated like the little—here come the genealogist.

L:

This is the genealogist.

SD:

Okay!

LR:

Her name was Isabel—

L:

Go by both, Daddy, because you have two sets of family. So, tell the families that



you have two sets of.

LR:

Okay. Here we go.

L:

You see it?

LR:

Let me see—oh, who’s this, that’s Mary?

L:

That’s Mommy. This is your adoptive, and that’s your natural.

LR:

Okay. Theon Freeman—

L:

Who was the grandson of Willoughby.

LR:

Okay.

L:

See how I did that?

MR:

You’d probably do it better than he does.







L:

That’s okay. And this is the title to the property where the Willoughby Park is. I



wanted to—

LR:

We got the title to the property?

L:

We got it from the President, yeah. Got it from the President.

LR:

George Davis, Sylvia Robinson—

MR:

That’s my side of the family. They want your side of the family. [Laughter]

LR:

Sylvia Robinson?

L:

Tell your side.

MR:

Tell your side. That’s my side.

L:

And I have the death certificates.

LR:

Sam Davis. Nellie Davis.

MR:

Lenny: your side. That’s my side.

LR:

Oh, that—I don’t know, it’s on the back, I don’t see nothing back here.

L:

No, it’s on the front, Daddy.

LR:

I don’t know none of these people. Ceola Thelma Addison?

L:

That’s Javin’s—no, that’s John—

MR:

Mar, you better give him, show it to him.

L:

Okay.

MR:

Because he’s, he’s going to—he started on my family.

L:

Daddy, you have a unique set of origins, remember? You have a biological set,



and then you have a set that you were raised by. Okay? Right?

LR:

Yeah.

L:

So, your biological family is the Willoughbys. That was your father’s grandfather.





	LR:	Yeah, well, you tell them. Because you know more about it than I do. [Laughter] I’m looking at this thing, I don’t—I do know that that Willoughby was my grandmother’s father and mother. You know. I do know that. But other than that, I don’t know all them people.

	L:	I don’t want to be on the tape. But anyway, I am the daughter of Leonard Reynolds, I’m his oldest child, and I have done some genealogical work of our family. My father has a unique origin, in that he was the biological child of one set of parents, but he was raised by another set of parents who actually were related to his biological set. His biological father was Theon Freeman, who was the grandson of Mr. Willis Willoughby, and Odelia Willoughby, who came to Florida in the 1870s after a terrible economic devastation in the state of Alabama. And they migrated by ox-cart. He was a minister, and he brought a caravan of about twenty-five people from Lowndes County, Alabama, to settle around Little Lake Weir. He founded a church in 1888—no, 1883—which is still in operation today.

And it was called the Gallilee Christian Church. The minister of the current, that church currently, is a descendant of Mr. Willoughby, as is my dad, and myself. I hold—my father probably has never seen this—a copy of the death certificate of both his great-grandparents that he has never met. A Mr. Willis Henry Willoughby, who was born in Lowndes County, Alabama, in 1848; he died in 19—let’s see, in 19—well, I think it’s in the [19]20s. I think it’s—[19]21. And I have one of his great-grandmother, who was a Native American. We believe she was of the Creek Nation, but we cannot ascertain that for sure. But we definitely know that she was a Native American, because the story is told in the family that





there were times when they would have powwows. We’ll call them “gatherings”— the Native Americans didn’t necessarily call them “powwows,” that’s what Americans call it. They would have gatherings, and she would leave her family and go off. She would leave her husband and her children and go off to the family gatherings with her Native American people, and be gone for some time. Her name was Odelia Willoughby, and she was born in 1858, also in Alabama.

And she died in 1916. Here’s a copy of her death certificate, and his death certificate. But my father was raised by his biological mother’s older sister. And so, his momma that raised him was named Amy Fryer. Got that right? And she married Mr. Arthur Reynolds. Now, even Mr. Reynolds’ name shouldn’t be Reynolds, because his real name should have been probably—what, Brooks, or Woods, Daddy? [Laughter] Either Brooks or Woods, but he took the name of the man that married his mother to help that family along. So I am the Reynolds of a Reynolds who isn’t a Reynolds, but we go by Reynolds. But, biologically speaking, he would not be a Reynolds. But that’s okay, because the Reynolds name has boded well for us—hasn’t it, Daddy?

	LR:	Hm?



	L:	[Laughter] By the death certificate that he has never seen. Anyway, and he didn’t tell you about it, but his grandmother, Ms. Emily Isabel—or Isabel Emily—was a Williams. Her mother was named Melissa Morgan, and she married Mr. Amos Williams. And I have a copy of their marriage certificate. They married in 1878 in Lake City, Florida. And they had two children, my great grandmother and Mr.

Williams, and her sister Rebecca, right?





	MR:	Mmhm.



	LR:	Yeah, Aunt Rebecca? She was a sweetheart. She loved me! First time I go see her, she say, “Oh, Leonard, come in here—I’m going to bake him a potato pie!” [Laughter] Because she—well, let me tell you what she did. Years ago, they had what you call Watkins Products. They had Watkins liniment, and Watkins vanilla extract. She baked this pie, and put Watkins liniment in instead of the vanilla extract! [Laughter] And when I got to the house, she say, “Leonard, I made a mistake, and I put liniment”—because it looked the same bottle, they said “Watkins,” you know—I say, I say, “Let me taste it, Aunt Rebecca.” I say, “Oh, it tastes all right to me!” I ate it anyway. [Laughter] But Aunt Rebecca, every time I go to her house—she lived in Jacksonville. And every time I go up there to Jacksonville, I go to see Aunt Rebecca. I loved Aunt Rebecca, she was a sweetheart. [Laughter] She was a beautiful, brown-skinned, reddish-brown skinned lady. Oh, man, she was something! Aunt Rebecca.

	L:	Anyway, his grandmother and his aunt who made the pies that he loved, they lived in Lake City, Florida. And their mother died at the tender age of, what was it? Twenty?

	LR:	Yeah, she was—she was very young when she died. L:	She—

	LR:	She was maltreated as a slave. She was free at twelve years old. I heard my grandmother say, you know, tell me about how her mother was freed at twelve years old. And they stripped all her clothes off her and put her on the road buck naked in the wintertime. And her mother, or Aunt Rebecca, somebody, Aunt





Morgan—Grandma Morgan, they called her—took them, one of them skirts, you know them white skirts they wore under the clothes?

	MR:	The slip.



LR:  Back in those days, they wrapped her up and took the child home. But she was sickly, and she didn’t live long. She lived long to have a couple of children, and that was it.

	L:	She died before the 1880 Census, which is the best Census that we have for looking at people of color after slavery. The 1870 Census was the first one where Black people were identified as human beings, where their names and identifications were recorded. I cannot locate her on the 1870 Census, but by the 1880 Census, his great-grandmother was deceased, but his grandmother, and his grandfather and great-grandfather were listed in the Columbia County record. The 1900 record shows his grandmother, who was born the day that—what happened? Tell them what happened the day that Ms. Finley was born.

	LR:	Well, she born June the 2nd, 1876. L:	And that was the day that Custer—

	LR:	No, no—well, Custer was killed at the Little Bighorn, but it wasn’t the 2nd of June, it was the 25th of June. But I remember the date because my grandmother was born June the 2nd, 1876. And that was the same month that Custer lost his life at the Little Bighorn. You know.

	L:	So that made her a centennial baby. She was born in the 100th year of our nation, right?

	LR:	Yep. 1876.





	L:	And she lived to barely make it to the second bicentennial, but she missed it by three years. She lived to be ninety-seven years old, she lived here in—

	LR:	But she would have made it if they hadn’t have put her in a nursing home. You know what, when they took her away from that house on Tucker Hill, it did something to her. As long as she could walk around that house, and that woods, and look at her chickens, she was all right. But they said, “No, we need somebody to take care”—and they put her in that nursing [home], took her away from her home. That was it. But she would’ve still been around. She wouldn’t have been here probably now, but she wouldn’t have went like she did. But she took up from where she was used to. Because my grandfather bought the house in 1912. And I wanted to keep it, because anybody coming home would always have a place to go. It was paid for. Because, even when my daughter came down to Florida, she stayed in the old homestead. I stayed in it. It was a, I was a heir to the property. But I ain’t going to tell you what happened. We lost it.

	L:	It wasn’t lost. It was sold. MR:	It was sold.

	L:	It was sold.



	LR:	It was sold—it was given away. L:	Well, it was sold for—

	LR:	Yeah, it was sold for money, but, I mean— L:	But it was sold.

	LR:	It is nowhere in Ocala you can buy, I don’t care what it is—a shack—on two lots on a corner for no $10,000.





	L:	Well, it happened, so. LR:	But that happened.

	L:	Anyway. MR:	[Laughter]

	LR:	If I’d have had the $10,000—because I couldn’t buy it, because I already owned it. But they signed my name, and it went. I didn’t want it to go. It was a five- bedroom house. It was wood, and it’s still wood, and it’s still standing.

	L:	And there’s a bunch of children that live in it to this day. [Laughter] And they run through the yard and eat the pecans from the trees.

	LR:	Oh, the tree back in the backyard? A great, big pecan tree with paper-shelled pecans on it. My grandfather plant it, he said—I heard it all my life—“I’m not planting this tree for my children, I’m planting it for my grandchildren.” Believe it or not, I am the oldest grandchild he had, that’s living, and if I want a pecan off there I got to stand in the road and hope one of them fall in the road, because I can’t go in the yard. Give the house away, you know. But like I say, I’m all right. God been good to me, because I’m still here.

	L:	Yes, that’s the amazing truth. MR:	He flatlined twice in the hospital.

	L:	He’s been a corpse, and still walking and— LR:	I have been resurrected.

	JD:	He was just tired. [Laughter]



	L:	He’s had more than nine lives! He’s been dead twice, but, in addition to that, he survived being lost at sea—twice. Twice. Been lost at sea twice. Twice, Daddy.





You survived car accidents—that Bronco flipped over, and you crawled out, and the car was smashed? Not a scratch on him. Did you not survive a boat that capsized, and you had to try to save your engine—don’t you remember that one? Up in Maryland? Yeah. He survived the boat capsizing. Yeah. And how many years ago were you lost at sea and they had to send the helicopters to find you and Kenny? Was that two years ago, Daddy?

	LR:	That was Kenny, yeah, he— L:	But y’all were lost at sea!

	LR:	I wasn’t lost. But what happened is, it was windy, and I had my head down, and my grandson had the boat wide open. Going out, it ran out of gas. Wide open! Then he say, “Where are we, Granddaddy?” I said, “I don’t know!” [Laughter] I was down there, you know, hiding from the wind?

	L:	That would be considered “lost at sea.” But you were rescued by them, right? LR:	But I will say, I’ve been resurrected.

	MR:	He has.



	LR:	But you know—but I can’t show you because I’ve got a t-shirt—but I could show you where they used those things they put on your heart to bring it back? I got a burn mark right there where my heart was. So that mean I was dead and they shocked me back to life.

	MR:	He’s not joking.



	L:	But he’s been dead more than once and come back because he’s walking and talking. But tell them—let’s talk about this, the Willoughby Park. There is a park in Marion County. It’s a beautiful place about, maybe seven, six miles from where





we’re seated right now and it was the remnant of a homestead of a hundred and fifty-plus acres that his great grandfather settled on in the 1870s. I was doing some research, and a friend of mine said “Marya there’s a book in the library, that’s called—

	LR:	President Arthur say—



	L:	Well no, let me tell them about the book in the library, talked about Little Lake Weir. And I’m reading the book, and it talks about all the famous people that were Citrus growers in the 1870s. And I did not know this to be a fact. The book is called Lake Weir by TM Shackleford, and it was published in Jacksonville in 1888. And in the book—this is amazing. Yes, it was published in 1883, I’m corrected. And in the book—somebody has since stolen the book from the library, it wasn’t I because—. [Laughter] And it says, and I’m going to read this to you, it says—this is about the property that was around Little Lake Weir—“The west and southwest of Little Lake Weir as yet has but a few improved places on them, though they contain some pretty lots and fine building sites. Dr. EC Hood”—who was a medical doctor—“JB Carlisle, and Willis Willoughby, Colored man, and perhaps one or two others, have places more or less improved and containing young orange groves,” in the 1880s; in the early 1880s and late 1870s. His grandfather, great-grandfather, was one of the prominent citrus growers in Marion County. I did not know that until someone shared this book with me. And he would’ve still been a citrus grower had there been not two freezes back to back—one in December 1894, and another one in February of 1895—that wiped out almost all of the citrus in this part, and they had to replant.





He then removed his family away from the property, but they retained the land. And it went from a hundred fifty acres to down to about twenty-something acres. And his uncle, who just recently passed away within six months or so, they got to the place where they could not continue to pay for the taxes on the land.

Because it’s sitting on the water. And what was a mosquito haven in the 1880s is gorgeous Florida real estate today. It is worth a considerable sum. He was savvy enough to say, “I’m going to keep it in my family but I’m going to lease it to Marion County for thirty years.” So it is a beautiful park. You can go down there and take a view of it, and it’s still our property but it’s leased to the county, and you can just imagine what it must have been like a hundred-plus years ago to have settled from Alabama on a five hundred-plus mile ox-cart travel to find this place. And the way he found it is because his wife was a Native American, and Native Americans from all over the nation, even South America, would come to Little Lake Weir. It had its own name. I can’t remember what the name was, but I had written it down at one point. And they would have worship ceremonies down there. That’s how long this has been a prominent piece of property in our family. Now, we may not know the connection to the Native American side, but we know that it’s there. Because that’s how his great-grandfather found the land. And he settled along, next to the Carneys—Carney Park, Carney Island? He was a neighbor of Mr. Willoughby. So, this was amazing history that I found. Because I did not know, and this was published contemporary at the time 1883 by the Jacksonville Times Union Power Printing. So, the newspaper was around in 1883. [Laughter] And it recorded it. So, that’s history.





SD:  I would mention one other thing about his music. I want you to share a little bit about—

L:   I think the best way for him to share it is for my father to play the piano and let you all hear him, because he—. [Laughter] Let me clear away the place so he can do that. But yes, he plays.

SD:  He plays very well. He plays for local churches, and he’s just a musician. Natural.



He plays by ear.



L:   No, he reads music!



SD:  Yes, that’s right! No, no, no, you’re right; he does read music. Because I went out to the house, and he played for me, and he pulled the songs out, and that’s right. You’re right.

L:   He can play classical music too!



	SD:	Yes, he can play classical, too. Yeah. L:	He can play classical.

	LR:	You say all these things, Marya; I used to be able to play classical [Laughter].



	L:	I’m sorry that you could remember before your resurrection, but you can’t play it.



	LR:	[Laughter] I say I used to play classical. I said that for one reason: when I was a teenager, boogie-woogie was the thing. I used to play a walking bass on the piano, boom-boom-boom-boom-boom-boom-boom-boom—you know, like that? I used to be able to—would you believe I can’t do it now? My hands will not—

	L:	You can do it.



	LR:	It won’t, it won’t do it like it used to.



	MR:	That’s because you sit there and you do those puzzles all day long. [Laughter]







LR:



SD:



L:

[Laughter] But now, I believe I tried, because I try. But my hands will not— Age. A little bit of age, just a wee bit.

Did you tell them your age, Daddy?

LR:

My age?

SD:

Yes, tell them your age.

LR:

I’m eighty-four years—

MR:

I know.

LR:

I’m eighty-four years old. I think I’m eighty-four. Eighty-four, Momma?

L:

Yeah, you eighty-four.

M:

Can we, for the record, can we ask when you were born?

LR:

Huh?

M:

Your birth date, what your birthdate was.

LR:

My birthday?

RM:

Yeah.

LR:

November the 23rd. This year, when November 23rd comes up, I’ll be eighty-five.



If I make it.

L:

What year was that Daddy?

LR:

Huh?

L:

1920 what?

LR:

[19]29.

L:

The year the nation crashed.

SD:

The stock market.

LR:

The banks crashed. [Laughter] I grew up in the Depression age.







SD:

Mary, you want to give him yours?

MR:

Yeah. May 2nd, 1928.

SD:

And then, mention your children, each one of them please, so we make sure we



those for the record?

LR:

That’s the oldest right there.

MR:

Marya Lynette Latson.

LR:

You know women don’t tell their age! [Laughter] I know. You know I know.

MR:

She said she didn’t care, so—

L:

I don’t care. [Laughter]

LR:

Her sister Tanya—

SD:

Wait a minute. Hold on—

MR:

Marya Lynette Reynolds Latson.

LR:

And then you got Tanya Anita Reynolds Harden.

MR:

[Inaudible] Junior.

LR:

And then you got Leonard Reynolds Jr.

SD:

See, he’s the one I don’t know too well. I know the ladies. Well, I know Tanya



better than any of them, because she helps so much with the tour.

LR:

Well Tanya is something else.

SD:

Tanya is, but she—I went to her house here in Ocala, she gave me plants. And



you know, my flowers are living that she gave me? Uh-huh.

MR:

See, you haven’t been there lately. I mean, she has so many more plants.

LR:

She got everything around her house you can think of.

SD:

[Laughter] I mean exotic stuff!





	MR:	I said, “You better not bring another plant here.” [Laughter] “You know I’m going bring a plant!”

	M:	So, can I ask a few questions for clarification— LR:	Yeah, you can ask me anything.

	M:	Well one, just a small question. So this is your grandmother, Odelia, was Native American, correct?

	L:	Great-grandmother.



	M:	Great-grandmother. She used to go to powwows, gatherings; something. Was that in Florida, or did she go all the way back to Alabama …

		L:	She would go to those Florida and also Alabama. M:		Okay, so she—

	L:	Let me clear some stuff up. Let me go back.



	LR:	You have to ask my daughter, because she knows more about it.



L:  Let me go all the way back. Let me, okay. My father is the only child of one set of parents, but not the only child of another set of parents. So, let’s go that way. He is the child of Amy Evelyn Fryer Reynolds.

LR:  What about her?



	L:	[Laughter] That was the woman that raised you, right? LR:	Right!

	L:	Amy Evelyn Fryer Reynolds, she was married to Arthur Reynolds. Now, they were both born in Lake City, Florida, Columbia County, but they didn’t meet in Lake City. They met in New York City. Were married in Manhattan, and—

	LR:	No, I think they met in—





	L:	Daddy, no, I have their marriage license. MR:	She has the marriage license.

	LR:	No, I think they met not in New York. They met in St. Petersburg, Florida. L:	Okay, but they married in New York City.

	LR:	They married in 1926, New York City.



	L:	Because I got the marriage license, and then—but he is the biological child of Amy’s younger sister, Minnie Fryer. Right?

	LR:	Right.



	L:	And he is the biological child of Seon Freeman. Seon Freeman was the son of George Freeman and Pauline Willoughby. Pauline Willoughby was the daughter of Odelia Means, who married Willis Willoughby. That’s the great-grandfather to him. Now, let me go back on the other side. This chair’s making a funny noise. Ms. Amy and Ms. Minnie were the children of Emily Isabelle Williams, who married Joseph Fryer. Emily was the child of Amos Williams and Melissa Morgan. Melissa Morgan was the one who died as a result of walking pneumonia, from having been not treated well during slavery, and died before 1880. She married Amos Williams, who later moved to Florida—I mean, not to Florida he was already in Florida—he later moved from Columbia County down to West Palm Beach, Florida. Did you know that Daddy?

	LR:	No, I didn’t know that.



	L:	[Laughter] So, I’ve gone back as far as I can.



	LR:	You said something I never heard. I didn’t know they went down ther,e because because back in 1800s Palm Beach was swamps!





	L:	No, no. They did it in the 1900s, Daddy.



	LR:	But you know, people don’t know. You go down to Miami back in the 1800s? You was in the swamps. I’m not joking!

	L:	They’re in swamps still. They just sucked the water out of it. It’s still swamp. LR:	Well, it’s a big city now.

	L:	They’re still sitting on a swamp.



	LR:	I mean, it’s not swamp like it was. Palm Beach is beautiful now. You have coconuts, lime trees. It wasn’t no coconut trees. Maybe in the swamps. But back in those days, you know, Ocala, when I was going to high school, all the roads around in Ocala was sugar sand. No paved roads. The only paved road you had was Broadway. But to get to Broadway, you had to get to go through the sugar sand all the way, on every road in Ocala, to get to the paved road on Broadway.

	L:	They were there in the [19]60s, Daddy. They only paved them in late [19]60s. LR:	I don’t know, but they—

	L:	Gainesville had sugar sand roads—



	LR:	I don’t know about the White section, because we didn’t—you know, Ocala was a place where we didn’t have to mingle with the White section of town. Everything we ever wanted was in the Colored section of town. I mean all the businesses, all the—even had a movie house called the Roxy Theater on Broadway. We didn’t even have to go the White folks’ movies. Because if we went to the White folks’ movie, we had to walk up the fire escape. Walk up the fire escape and sit up in the balcony. So, we didn’t go there. We went to the Roxy.

	JD:	What sort of movies did you see at the Roxy?





	LR:	Huh?



	JD:	What sort of films did you see at the Roxy?



	MR:	Same thing that they showed at the other theaters.



	LR:	Whatever movies it was, you know, come out. They had regular movies. SD:	Ms. Shaw had a lot of movies for the Blacks in the [19]30s and [19]40s, Ms.

Shaw? Oscar? You probably saw a lot of his movies.



	LR:	You know, back when I—back when I was going to high school here in Ocala, everybody of color, I don’t care if you lived in Weirsdale to the south, Citra to the North, Blitchton to the west, or—

	MR:	Fort McCoy to the east?



	LR:	I don’t care, anywhere in Marion County, all people of color knew everybody.



Everybody knew everybody. I said the whole county, because on Saturdays, you could find everybody up on Broadway shopping. They come from the woods.

They come to town. That is no longer. Nobody knows anybody any longer, because it’s not the same. But years ago when I was there, you could go up on Broadway, everybody is up there, all up in the middle of the street having a good time. I’m not joking!

	SD:	How about Paradise Beach? LR:	Oh, Paradise?

	SD:	Was it Paradise—? LR:	Park.

	MR:	Park.



	SD:	Park. Yeah. Yeah.





	LR:	Years ago, Silver Springs, we couldn’t go in the water to swim. You know, Colored people couldn’t go in the water in the main park. We could go in the bushes and swim, there was a swimming hole down—. They used to tell me, “don’t go there anymore,” because a suckhole will suck you in. But you know, we went down there and swam it anyway. But along came, they decided that we need a place for the Colored people. So, they appointed Mr. Eddie Vereen, manager of—what’s out there now, they call? Silver Springs State Park, that was Paradise Park. We had the glass bottom boats over there for the Colored. The swimming area for the Colored. Everything for Colored, on that side, in Paradise Park. And therefore, we didn’t have to go over the White folk people side. But that was there for a while, but I don’t know what happened that they closed it down.

	MR:	Yeah, they finally did. They put [inaudible 1:43:11] and everything over there. LR:	They closed, but it’s now considered Silver Springs State Park. You go out 35,

whatever that is.



	SD:	That is that County Road 35. MR:	35.

	LR:	County Road 35? You’ll get to Paradise Park. It is behind where that water park is off Silver Springs Boulevard. Do you know water park is? Where the slide is in Silver Springs? Well, Paradise Park is behind there on that road. This is a new world, a new day, and everything. Because on Saturdays, I used to go out to Silver Springs and put stickers on people’s cars. Just stick it on so it said, “A trip to Florida is not complete unless you see Silver Springs.” And they’d give me





little tips. And I would make my little change sticking stickers on people’s—. But now, you can’t even go out there, because you got to pay to park, you got to pay to do this. Marion County is not the Marion County it used to be. Because even the boat ramps, you got to pay to put your boat in to go fishing out in Marion County. But you can go right here in, I can say in Levy County. I can go back in Levy County. You can put your boat in on free ramps, it’s free boat ramps all over. Not only in Levy County; you can go down to Lake County. Lake Harris, we got boat ramps. Every county except Marion; you got to pay to go fishing. Even though it’s, I will tell you, it is not the Marion County—we used to have fun. You had a good time back when I was a teenager. We had things for teens. We had soda shops up on Broadway, and everything for teenagers and whatnot. We had a good time.

	M:	Did you have a favorite shop up there? LR:	Oh yeah, but it is not the same anymore.

	M:	Did you have a favorite shop? Do you remember the names of any of them? LR:	A couple of my classmates had a shop up on Broadway. What do you call it?

They is dead. Both of them are dead. The Hunt sisters. Ida Lee Hunt and her sister had a shop where we’d gather up there, right there before you—it was right there on Silver Springs Boulevard. You know where you go up coming into 441, going up over the overpass at the train tracks? Well, right down there at this side of the bottom of the hill was a soda shop where we used to hang out. Right there. And talking about my Grandmother Freeman, she lived right down the street on Broadway. Her house is gone. Everything on Silver Springs Boulevard. Her





house was right there on Silver Springs Boulevard. All the houses are gone. They got grass growing along there now. All along there.

	SD:	They got the street market was saved for Broad Street, and that’s over there at the school.

	MR:	Howard.



	SD:	At Howard Academy, yeah. They got it. And it’s out there in the back.



	LR:	Well, you see, the building they call Howard Academy, when I growing and going to school, was the elementary school.

	SD:	That’s right.



	LR:	We had a two-story wooden building, white wooden building. Two-story. Was the high school. In the middle of the campus was the gym, gymnasium. It was a big, big white building we had. A stage and an open floor. We had ten-cent socials.

Like, on the nights. And I used to play in a band, and I used to play the piano. And boogie-woogie down! [Laughter] We had ten-cent socials. Everybody would be out on the campus having a good time. Them was good days!

	SD:	I hear you. Now, how did you learn to play? Did you learn while you were in school? Who taught you music?

	LR:	Class you mean?



	SD:	Mmhm.



	LR:	Well, believe it or not, I took lessons on the violin. That was my instrument, the violin.

	MR:	It’s true.





	LR:	That’s where I learned to read music on the violin. I can read music for the piano, but not as well as the violin. Because the violin got one, maybe two notes. But a piano has a whole bunch of—

	SD:	Forty-six.



	LR:	—notes on the written music. Therefore, I don’t read piano music as well as I do—

	SD:	The violin.



	LR:	Now, I can read it well enough to play. SD:	Oh yeah, you do.

	LR:	I read it well enough, but I don’t be reading actually what on the paper. SD:	You don’t need to, because he knows how to improvise.

	LR:	I put my own two cents in what is on the piece of paper, because I don’t like a lot of way the music is written, I don’t like the way it sounds. I play so much of it from the paper, then I put my two cents in there, too.

	SD:	Improvise, it is beautiful.



	L:	I cleared it so you can play, daddy. LR:	Huh?

	L:	I’ve cleared it so you can come over here and play. [Laughter] LR:	What do you want me to play for you?

	L:	Something that you want recorded for posterity. LR:	What she say?





	L:	Something that you want recorded for posterity. I think that you have two signature songs. One is the song from Showboat, “Fish Got to Swim, Birds Got to Fly.”

	LR:	I do know, might’ve forgot it.



	L:	And the other one is a religious song. “Yes, My Jesus Cares.” Because that is your song, and we’ve that song for eighty years, now. So, you can’t remember, “Fish Got to Swim”

	LR:	You can see the Native American in this young lady here. [Laughter] SD:	Yes, my Jesus cares.

	LR:	I’m going tell you this, and I’ll see if I can play it: We travelled across the country, the Southern border, from Florida to California. We stopped in Mexico in several places. Coahuila, Mexico. In Mexicali. We stopped in Mexicali. My wife got kind of sick, so she went back into California. It was Calexico, California, to the drug store. You remember? Everybody left, and my truck was on the California side; we walked across the border. Me and my daughter was in Mexico. So, they had an alert all of the sudden when we got ready to leave; some people that crossed the border illegally, and they was—[Laughter]—taking everybody, and all the Mexicans couldn’t get out. That was when we got to border! I said, “American.” And he’s looking, “Huh?” [Laughter] And my daughter said, “Daddy, speak Spanish.” I say, “Shut up!”

	L:	And the troopers talked, and they didn’t let us leave. They detained us. They kept him inside the place, and let me sit at the border. But neither of us could leave until she came. But she didn’t look Mexican. He had on cowboy boots, cowboy





hat, and overalls. And three times that day, I had been taken by the nuns, because they thought I was a child that was supposed to get on the bus with the other Mexican children. This is true. So, they did not let us leave. And I do speak Spanish, and he does, too. And until she came, they didn’t let us go.

	SD:	Have mercy!



	MR:	I had to bring all of his identification back.



	LR:	Talking about, “Speak Spanish, Dad!” I said, “Shut up!” [Laughter] SD:	[Inaudible 1:52:06]!

	MR:	We had a wonderful life. We had travelled, everything. We build the boat, but we bought a boat. And we came from Maryland to Florida. That was a trip.

	LR:	Oh, I sailed my own boat down.



	SD:	Yeah, you told me about it. You came from—



	LR:	We came into Cedar Key. I brought my boat down from Maryland. They had a thirty-three or thirty-one or thirty-three foot cabin cruiser. It was either-or, I done forgot now. But anyway, to ship it to Florida, you had to have different laws for each state from Maryland. Some, you have to have escorts. Some had, you couldn’t—oh man, it was a mess to ship a boat from up north down on the highway. I told my wife, “We ain’t going to ship it. We going sail it!” [Laughter] Everybody say, “You going what?” I say, “We are going run this boat.” And they said, “You sure you can do it?” I say, “I’m going do it.” I backed my boat up and filled it up with fuel, blew my horn—whoo-whoo!—down the Chesapeake Bay I went. I stopped that night in Virginia. I do the hook over it in Virginia, I was in Virginia waters. Took my fishing pole, fished, caught our breakfast. [Laughter]





	LR:	I’m going to let you talk, Momma. MR:	No, no, I don’t want to.

	LR:	I’m going let you talk. Anyway, we had breakfast. Then I went on down—I forget what I did. But anyway, we got to Virginia, Hampton. Was it Hampton, Virginia where we tied up? Okay, yeah. Hampton, Virginia. We spent a couple of days in Virginia. Sightseeing, you know; Hampton and all that. What’s that—I know the part, I can’t even—what naval base is it?

	L:	Albermerle Sound, North Carolina.



	LR:	No, no. Virginia. It is the naval base down there. MR:	Norfolk.

	LR:	Norfolk. I got there, and I couldn’t. My memory not good like you. But anyway, after we left, I had to pull my boat off in the bushes, because a aircraft carrier was coming out, and it took the whole channel. I mean it was coming out.

	MR:	All the boats had to move.



	LR:	And we had to pull in the swamp and get that boat to—. That’s a aircraft carrier, the Forrestal.

	MR:	The Forrestal. That’s it.



	LR:	The Forrestal. She was coming in. The sailors were waving and all that.



	MR:	It was beautiful. All of them standing out there in their white uniforms, they were waving to everybody.

	LR:	Oh, but you know one thing? That was a great trip well worth doing. Because they very seldom—let me tell you: from Maryland to North Carolina, you found Black people on the water. They had boats. My boat looked like a rowboat to





some of the Black folks’ boats in North Carolina. It was a Black man bringing his boat from Connecticut. Laid back, pushing buttons, driving. The reason I know because I was looking to get some fuel. He say, “I just got some fuel over here.” I say, “Where at?” He say, “Well, throw a rope up.”

	MR:	Go back over there.



	LR:	I threw a rope up and tied it to his boat, and I had to climb the ladder to get on his yacht. And he’s laid back there pushing buttons, running his boat, there. And he had three, I will say, big, fat ladies sitting on the back eating watermelon. [Laughter] Okay, he pulled me back in, and I filled up. But now from Maryland, Virginia, and North Carolina, you found Black people with big boats. Morehead City, we stayed for two or three days. When we left Morehead City, hit South Carolina, that’s where we were strange. Black folks didn’t have boats in South Carolina or Georgia and none of them places, because we had to go through the swamp there, the little dugouts, like, in the swamps in South Carolina. But up until North Carolina? We were strangers when we left there coming. We was in the Intracoastal. What happened is, we left South Carolina, we got to Georgia; a storm came up. So I say, we better pull in, get out of the storm. So I pulled into a little cove, and I tied up at the dock out of the way of the storm. And I looked at the chart, it said, “six foot drop in tide.” So, I tied my rope six foot.

	MR:	That was in the—



	LR:	It was a nine foot drop instead of a six foot drop. MR:	In the canal it was—





	LR:	So, in the morning, when I woke up, my boat was hanging in the air up from the dock. And I didn’t know it, but I had to cut the rope to get the boat back down into the water. So, I cut the rope, but when it fell back to the water, it knocked the generators out. I didn’t know that the dock that we tied up to was the United States Ammunition Depot.

	MR:	And the day before, they had brought all the ammunition in. And it was thundering and lightning all night long. And if we had blown up, nobody would’ve known.

	LR:	No, but now let me tell you: I had to call the Coast Guard, because my generators went out. I called them on the radio, and they had to get permission to come in, because I was in prohibited waters. Well, I say, “I didn’t know about no ammunition dump back in here.” But they had to get permission to come in and get me.

	MR:	That is how we found it out. He said, “You know we had to come in here to get you.” “For what?”

	LR:	The United States Ammunition Depot.



	SD:	You know you were probably were in Kings Bay, Georgia, right?



	LR:	They knew we was seeking shelter. We wasn’t coming in to do no damage. MR:	It was storming!

	LR:	Storming. We seeking shelter. So, when they came, they pulled me from Georgia to Fernandina, Florida. Into Florida, so I could get the boat fixed, the generator.

And I got tired of the Intracoastal. I put it in the ocean twice. I put it in the ocean up at Altamonte Sound, and my wife was down below. She was fixing dinner.





She looked at the port, and we were starting to ride. She looked out the window, and when she looked out there, she ain’t see nothing but water. So she say, “Where are we?” She up there—where. I said, “We’re all right.” And my son was with us. She said, “Little Lenny, where are we?” He say, “We in the ocean, Momma.” [Laughter] She say, “Get back.” But I was out there, I was riding high on the ocean. So I had to look for an opening to get back into the coastal. I got tired, because I had to wait for bridges to open up and all that. I was riding the ocean. I was riding! But now, that’s the first time I got on the ocean. When we got to Daytona, she got off. Left my son and I, we were on our own. So when I took the Intracoastal all the way to Stuart, Florida; went through the St. Lucie Canal into Lake Okeechobee; crossed Lake Okeechobee into Clewiston, Florida, which is at the Caloosahatchee River; and the Caloosahatchee River ran into Fort Myers, which put me in the Gulf of Mexico. When I got in the Gulf of Mexico, I looked at the chart, and from Fort Myers to Cedar Key, straight across the ocean. I say, “Son, we going. We ain’t going to fool with the Intracoastal anymore. Your momma gone.” [Laughter] I put out there, and I rode, and we came up on a storm before we got to Cedar Key, and I pulled into Crystal River. Then he seek shelter, “Why don’t you stay here?” I say, “No, we going to Cedar Key.” But the next day, the storm subsided, so I took her on into Cedar Key. And that was the end of me and Maritime Reynolds.

	ML:	And the beginning of Rosewood. L:	Maritime Lenny!

	LR:	Maritime Lenny.





	MR:	And that was the beginning of Rosewood.



	LR:	I drove that all the way around, all the way down from Maryland into Cedar Key, Florida. And let me tell you, the White folks stole everything off my boat.

	MR:	Yeah, they were stealing everything!



	LR:	They stole the compass; I had a built-in compass on the dashboard, they took that. I mean, they just stripped my boat. Because it wasn’t no Black folk down in Cedar Key. All the White folks stole all the equipment off my boat. I’m telling you! That’s when I first got there. And then, after they stripped it, they took the generators off my engine, and I had to take the engine up to—

	MR:	I think we were paying them for—



	LR:	I was paying them thirty dollars a month to park, because they charged me by the foot. They said, “What size boat?” I say, “Thirty foot.” So, they charged me thirty dollars a month. But when they took the generators off my engine, I took the engine up to Thompson Garage in Chiefland to fix it. And a man came, he say he wanted to buy my boat. And they stripped—oh, they took the railings off my boat; everything! I mean they stripped my boat! [Laughter]

	MR:	The fish finder, you know.



	LR:	I gave him thirty-five hundred dollars: “Give me thirty-five hundred and take it.” And he took the engine and got Thompson to fix it for him. And I understand he was running dope. He was running from Cedar Key down the coast running dope—since they stripped everything off the boat and made it like a cargo ship. [Laughter] It was a cabin cruiser, because we had bunks, a shower and all that. But you know, they were shocked to see a Black man coming with a great big





boat, coming into Cedar Key with that? Oh, down in St. Petersburg, I come across that town down there by St. Petersburg? I was laid back with my feet up on the steering wheel, cruising. And Florida Marine Patrol came by. They looked over, looked at me, saw me laying back on the thing, feet up on there, and they looked at the numbers. It had Maryland numbers on it. Did a big sweep around, came back and took another look. They didn’t say nothing, they just—. [Laughter] We’ve had a pretty exciting life, I got to say. I can tell people, you know one thing? I have been around two or three times, on the ocean. And I say around the world two or three times. When I say I have been there, I have left New York City; crossed the Atlantic Ocean; ‘round the Rock of Gibraltar; through the Mediterranean Sea; down to Port Said, Egypt; down through the Suez Canal; up the Malacca Straits into Japan. From Yokohama, Japan to Honolulu across the Pacific; to Honolulu, Hawaii, from there back to Balboa, Panama; through the Panama Canal; and across the Gulf of Mexico, around Florida, back to New York. If that ain’t around the world, I don’t know what is. Now, I’ve done it several times. I’ve stopped in different places. I have been in different foreign countries and all that. I’ve sat in the Temple of Zeus, where Nero sat. I had my picture taken in Athens, Greece. The Temple of Zeus. The Parthenon, I been there. I have—oh, man. I’ve been to so many different places. I have been to London, England.

	MR:	Do you want to talk about your job? You don’t want to talk about your job in Washington?





	LR:	Oh, my job in Washington? You know one thing? I have walked with kings, presidents. I was security for heads of states. I was security for the Shah of Iran. I was security for Anwar Sadar, president of Egypt. Well, the first man I worked for was Abba Eban of Israel. And then, oh my goodness! Oh, I was even security for Prince Charles and his sister Margaret when they were children.

	MR:	What was the German man that came over here and gave you a case of vodka? LR:	Who?

	MR:	I can’t remember. I don’t know. Whatever the big man was over there in Germany. He gave you a case of vodka from Germany.

	LR:	Oh, that was up at the Russian Embassy. MR:	I was somebody.

	LR:	It was up at the Russian Embassy, they gave me this vodka. [Laughter] Mainly it was, you know. I can name all of them. But as far as, those are some of them.

But all the Black dignitaries I handled came to Washington. The first mayor of Washington, DC. was Walter E. Washington; he was the first mayor, and I was his right-hand man. He even called me up on New Year’s Eve. I say, “I’m off, Mr. Mayor!” He say, “Well, I need you. Come on.” I had to go to work. He wanted me for a reason. He wanted me for a reason, and I happen to know the reason, because I do the same thing.

	MR:	He was a pain in the neck with that.



LR:  I do the same thing. Each year, the first person to cross your threshold has got to be a man. So when I took the mayor out of the party New Year’s Eve, I had to get out of the car and walk into his house first before I could go back to the car to





help him and his wife coming out. So, I was the first man to cross over that threshold. And believe it or not, I knew what he wanted, because I’ve done that for—

	MR:	Even locked his own children out.



	LR:	You cannot come in my house until a man cross my threshold on New Year’s, on the New Year. It’s just an old—

	MR:	Tradition.



	LR:	Superstition. That’s a superstition, they say it’s bad luck. It’s bad luck if a woman cross your threshold the first day.

	SD:	That’s right.



	LR:	And so I say, well, I don’t know if it a superstition or not. You just ain’t crossing! [Laughter] My children, if they go out, they could not come home. They better find somewhere—I’m not joking!

	SD:	No, I know!



	LR:	I’d lock the door. I’d lock the door. They couldn’t come in. Whoever is in there is in there. And the first one to cross that on New Year’s would have to be—and they’ll tell you. They couldn’t home. They’d go out and talking about a New Year’s party? Better get home before midnight. Well, that’s something, you know.

	MR:	Lenny, what was the—I don’t know if you remember his name. He was the vice- president of the Bank of—

	LR:	Oh yeah.



	MR:	Bolivia?



	LR:	He came over.





	MR:	No, he was in an accident, and he spoke only Spanish or something like that.



And Lenny could speak Spanish.



	LR:	You know, I can’t remember all them people. [Laughter] And then one man, I had never heard of until I took him to Dulles Airport. I took this man to Dulles Airport. He was the president of Mauritius. I’d never of Mauritius. So when I took him to the airport, put him on the plane, he was going to London, he hugged me and kissed me on both my cheeks. And he say, “Come visit us in Mauritius, because you look like a Mauritian.” He say I looked like a Mauritian. He was a brown- skinned man, Indian man, from Mauritius. So when I got home, I looked on the map to find out where Mauritius was. It’s a tiny island in the Indian Ocean. I ain’t never heard of it until I took him to Dulles. But I was in a whole lot of dignitaries. What was it? Whitney Young from New York?

	MR:	Yeah, that was it. That was your buddy.



	LR:	Yeah, Whitney Young. Yeah, he called Mayor Washington up, he say, “Walter, have Reynolds meet me at the airport, and he want a shiny car. Bring a nice shiny car and meet me on the airport.”

	MR:	He was the last on to put him on the plane, and he died. LR:	I put him on a airplane to go to Africa.

	MR:	You remember when he died, he was going to Africa. LR:	Yeah, Whitney Young.

	MR:	All those autographs, and things we have received from all these people that he has come in contact with? Oh, God!





	LR:	Oh, I have things from all the presidents. The thing about my main man was Tricky Dick. Milhous Nixon.

	SD:	Milhous Nixon?



	LR:	That was my main man. A lot of people say he’s Republican, they don’t like Republicans and all that? But Tricky Dick was my main man. He raised my salary from little to nothing to a livable salary. I don’t care if that—he raised my salary to a livable salary, because he liked pomp and circumstance. He’d call up and say, “Come get him. He want to go to the boat.” The Sequoia boat in the river? He liked the sirens blasting, and the red lights, and the whistles. Would go up in the city to take him down to the boat? Oh, man. And we’d be in a conference where he was going to speak. He would be in the back; we’d be back there, shooting the breeze. Blah, blah, blah. He was down to earth. And all the sudden, DUN- DUN-DUN-DUN-DUN! [Laughter] DUN-DUN-DUN-DUN-DUN! He snapped to

attention. Oh, he was something else. I don’t care what they say about him. I’m living comfortable today from him raising my salary! See, he’s the one that gave us a raise that was livable. Because when I was working, I wasn’t making but forty-one hundred dollars a year. I’m not joking! But when he got to be president, he raised it up to sixty-something hundred dollars. Couple of thousand dollars.

And I’m not joking. Shoot; you say what you want to say about him.



	SD:	Definitely took care of you, huh? And your family.



	LR:	But that was my main job, protecting the president of the United States. My first man was Dwight D. Eisenhower. He was coming in on the train, and I was standing next to the car, so when he come out, I was supposed to open the door





for him to get in. Well, something happened, and they had a security something- or-other? So, the Secret Service whisked him away. He was in an armored car instead of that open car they driving. So, I didn’t get to see him. But that was my first man. “Well, I’m going to open the door for the president of the United States.” And I hadn’t been on the police department but a week when they sent me down to open the door for the president. People would come up to me and ask me questions, how to get to such-and-such a place? I didn’t even know where I was! [Laughter] I had just went to Washington. I didn’t know where I was. I knew I was at the train station; and how I got there, they put me in the police car and brought me over there, and say, “This is the president’s car; open the door.” [Laughter] I didn’t know where I was.

	MR:	But you did drive the lead car for Nixon.



	LR:	Oh, that Tricky Dick. My main man? When he was inaugurated for the second term, I went to the White House in a police car and escorted his car to the Capitol to be sworn in for the second inauguration. And when we left the Capitol, that lead police car coming down Pennsylvania Avenue in grey? Yours truly. Driving President Richard Milhous Nixon! [Laughter]

	L:	Tell the story that Jaden wrote about for him to win the essay about how you got to be able to drive a police car. Tell that story about 1963 and the March on Washington.

	LR:	Well, when I first went into the police department, I was assigned to the Number Ten Precinct. And the captain in the Number Ten Precinct: “There never has been and never will be a Colored officer qualified to ride in the police cars.” So,





we only walked. I had a regular beat that I walked. Georgia Ave, I called it Gorgeous Avenue. Because I used to strut, and I mean stroll down the avenue, swinging my stick. I was the man on the—

	MR:	The man on the beat.



	LR:	Oh, yeah! You know something? I thought I was somebody, walking down the avenue. I did my walk, because I got to meet the people. I knew all the business people. If there was any problem on my beat, I knew about it. A lot of people, even though we were segregated from riding the car, it was a blessing to get to know the people on your beat. I mean, you got to know what was going on. You knew more about—people in the car, they don’t know what’s going on out there in there today. All they do is ride around writing reports. But walking your beat, you get to know everything going on. Like the winos who see me in the morning: “Officer Reynolds, I’m kind of short today. I ain’t get my medicine for the day.” I say, “Well go in there and tell Frank to give you what you want, and tell him to put it on my bill for it.” So, now the same winos, Frank was the liquor store. So some guys were casing the liquor store to rob it. Them same winos said, “Officer Reynolds, those guys don’t look right.” I went in there, I say, “Frank, I’m going sit in the back for a few minutes.” [Laughter] See? You know, these are the people that come to you to let you know what’s going on, and when I strolled down the street in the morning, they would say, “Good morning, Officer Reynolds”—if they knew me. If they didn’t, “Good morning, officer.” How many people you see going say, “Good morning officer” now? No, but I was somebody, you know. And I enjoyed it. I’m not joking. But those days are gone forever. What Marya, my





daughter, was talking about: since we wasn’t qualified to ride in the police car, when they didn’t have a White fellow to put in the police car, they would park the cars in the alley. And it was only two cars, actually. Each precinct went by the number. I was at Number Ten Precinct. So the scout car ten-one, which is Scout

101. And Scout 102. Ten-two. You know, the two cars. Whatever precinct it was, the number of the precinct, then the number behind it. Scout 91 was ninth precinct. So, Scout 101 and 102 was parked in the alley when there was no White officers there. So I was walking this beat, my beat; and since nobody was working that night, it was midnight, I had more than my beat. I had the whole precinct on this side, walking. I had from—I forget the avenue now—all the way over to the Washington Hospital Center to walk and check doors. And I’m walking down Georgia Avenue, and the minister saw me. He sat, “Hey, Officer Reynolds. How you—? Kind of chilly out here tonight.” And I say, “Yeah, it’s kind of—.” He say, “Come on in the church and have a cup of coffee.” And I say, “Well, I can’t stay too long, reverend, because I got all this precinct to walk and check up on.” He say, “Why?” I say, “Well, they don’t have any White boys working tonight, and the cars are all parked in the alley.” He say, “What you talking about?” I say, “Well you know, we can’t ride in the cars. Only White fellows can ride in the cars.” He say, “What you talking about?” I said, “Well the cars are parked in the alley.” He say, “I don’t believe you.” So I say, “I’ll show you.” So I got in his car, and we drove up to the precinct to show him the two cars parked there. The next business day, he went downtown before the commissioners. “How come they park the police cars in the alley when they don’t





have any White boys to put in the cars?” “Oh, oh, Reverend—!” Well, from that they got another Studebaker, one of those old Studebakers? Scout 103, for Colored to ride in. They assigned a Colored man to ride in Scout 103. This Colored man was named Archer. Archer had blond hair, blue eyes, and if he never opened his mouth, he wasn’t Colored. But when he opened his mouth, you knew he was Colored. But if he didn’t open his mouth, hard to believe. White man. That was integrated with a Colored man. But I had integrated the car, where, you know—because we had three sections. They had to put somebody brown-skinned out. I never rode in it, but they did get a car for us to ride in. The Colored car, 103. Scout 103. But then I had more problems with it, because I’m outspoken. I was taught never to bite my tongue and shuffle my feet. That’s the way I grew up here in Ocala, Florida. The teachers told me when I talk to a White man, “You’d better look him dead in the eye and talk to him man-to-man. You don’t look down at the ground and talk to him, no. You look him dead in the eye.” That’s the way they taught me. This was Ocala, because I say this was a progressive town. So, I was outspoken. I was what they called “arrogant,” because I didn’t go with the—

	MR:	Flow.



	LR:	The way you supposed to be Colored, you supposed to step back. I wasn’t that way. I was outspoken, so I was always having problems. So the Sergeant up there say, “Reynolds, we going start an old clothes unit.” So I left Number Ten Precinct and went into old clothes. We working robberies, burglaries—we called it housebreaking up in Washington; they call burglaries a housebreak. I made a





couple of arrests. Guys that were stealing people’s TVs; you see them running down the street with somebody’s—. [Laughter] I made a couple arrests. And they came out with scooters. They ride scooters. They say, “You want a scooter ride?” So they sent me—they had six scooters. So they issued me one, and five more fellows scooters. And sent us to school to learn to ride and things? I learned to ride upstairs, down the stairs. Go down to park the steps, ride down those on the scooters. I could ride that thing. So inspector came to me, he says, “Reynolds”— it’s nighttime—“You think you can handle a special detail on your scooters?” I say, “Sure.” You never say no. Even though I didn’t know how to do it, I say, “Yeah, yes sir. I know how to do it.” He say, “Well, we want you to handle”—I forget what it was. A parade or something else like that. I say, “Sure.” So I took my squad with the scooters—I was in charge of the scooters—and I taught them how to leapfrog from intersection to intersection so the parade, you would stop this car and the next one would be ahead of you to stop it there; and when everything passed, the next one would leapfrog ahead of the parade. And the inspector say, “Oh, this here—you doing a pretty good job.” So he say, “You in charge of this unit.” And he called it the Special Operations Unit. In the Metropolitan Police Department, I was the one to start it. Okay, not only did we have parades, we handled funerals. You know, you see them [inaudible 2:25:49]. The circus came to town, the elephants and whatnot, we handled that. And then when they went to the day, we had to handle traffic control where the circus would meet. The baseball games, we handled the traffic coming into the baseball. You know, special events. Any special event, my unit would handle. So





I was a officer. So a desk sergeant in Number Five Precinct got promoted to full sergeant. They sent him up to my unit to be the sergeant in charge. I had to show him what was going on, tell him what happening, how our unit operate. It wasn’t soon after that that I became what you call H-I-S-T-O-R-Y? [Laughter] I became history. And right today, we got a magazine, a book they put out. Special Operations Division—they don’t mention me nowhere, no. But I’m the one who started the unit. That’s the truth. My wife can tell you, that I’m the one that started the unit. I don’t mind. Now, they promoted certain people at the Congress. I got fellows promoted, but I didn’t get promoted. But like, Walter Washington, the mayor, he was a man—he passed not too long ago, I got a brochure where it says he passed. I forget his name. He was a detective from Ninth Precinct. He was relieved me. It was three of us that worked with the mayor ‘round the clock. Eight to four, four to twelve, you know; around the clock. One of the detectives, he stayed sharp. I mean, he would [inaudible 2:27:50] you to the—I mean, he stayed sharp. Efficiency time came for promotion. They gave me a eighty-five.

They gave him a eighty-five. They gave the other fellow eighty-five. So I had to go pick up the mayor from his house, and I was discussing about that eighty-five. Because eighty-five is above average, but it’s not enough to get promoted. The system in the police department is your efficiency counted sixty percent of the exam, your written test counted forty percent. So if you wrote a passing mark, which is seventy, and had a high efficiency, which is sixty percent, and your seventy added together would be more than my eighty-five. You understand? So ninety-five is a high efficiency. They gave me an eighty-five, which, eighty-five is





above average, but it’s not enough to do anything. So the mayor asked me, he say, “What’s wrong?” I say, “I’m so sick and tired of this Colored folks efficiency.” He say, “What Colored folk efficiency you talking about?” I say, “All us Colored folks only get an eighty-five, and the White folks get a ninety-five, which get them promoted.” He say, “What you talking about?” I say, “Well, you take Saunders”— Saunders is his name—I say, “You take Saunders. Saunders is jam dandy, you see him neat, on the ball; he got a eighty-five just like me. And you know he fit.

He’s top man.” That’s what I was talking about Saunders. He say, “I don’t believe it.” So when we got to the office, the mayor got on the phone and called Saunders up. He said, “Saunders, what kind of efficiency you get?” He say, “Eighty-five.” “Thank you, son.” He hung the phone up, picked it up again, and called downtown to headquarters, the chief of police. He say, “I want to know why you gave my man Saunders an eighty-five efficiency.” “Oh, Mr. Mayor, we were”—I heard him on the phone, I could hear him—“Oh, Mr. Mayor. We sorry, we meant to give him a ninety-five!” Automatically, he was promoted right there on the spot! You see that? I didn’t get promoted. Saunders got promoted, though. But I didn’t care.

	SD:	But you still alive to tell the story.



	LR:	Oh, yeah. Saunders passed. I saw it in the papers when Saunders passed. I belong to the Association of Retired Police Officers, and every so often they send a brochure of what’s going on. In the brochure, they say what officer met their last roll call. “Last roll call” is when you deceased.





	SD:	When you were in DC, did you ever hear of the Thompson Hotel? It was a White hotel, and it was also a restaurant?

	LR:	Whereabouts?



	SD:	Thompson Hotel. It was downtown.



	LR:	I know it was a hotel where I used to go eat down there right off of Pennsylvania Avenue?

	SD:	It probably was.



	LR:	It was on that side of the street. The main avenue, and then the hotel where I used to eat at, and it was a hotel upstairs.

	SD:	It was a hotel, a restaurant—



	LR:	And most people that were travelling would go to— SD:	That’s where, for the train people.

	LR:	I don’t remember the name, but I remember. Because I probably—but I used to go in there and eat all the time.

	SD:	During segregation time, you couldn’t go. You had a certain place for the Black people to eat in the Thompson Hotel.

	LR:	Well, I always could go in, because I was the police.



	SD:	Well, that’s right. You had no problems. You could go on in there.



	LR:	You know, I think about when I first went to Washington, my mother put me on the bus to send me back to Florida--I was in New York--and she put me on the bus to go to Florida. The Greyhound. From New York to Washington, I sat anywhere on the bus.

	SD:	You could!





	LR:	When I got to Washington, we had to change to get the bus from Washington South. That’s when I had to get on the back seat.

	SD:	That was the Mason-Dixon Line.



	LR:	Yeah. Washington, DC, nation’s capital. Capital of the United States. They had a Colored waiting room and a White waiting room in Washington, DC.

	MR:	But tell them what you did, Lenny.



	LR:	Oh, that wasn’t coming to Florida. That was to Aunt Rebecca’s house in Jacksonville. You talking about? I know what my wife talking about: I was at my Aunt Rebecca’s house, my grandmother’s sister, the one that makes pie for me? She gave me a nickel—it was a nickel to go back to the bus station to get the bus to come to Ocala. So she say, “Here, son. Here’s a nickel to go to the bus station,” to get the bus—I had a ticket. So, I got on the bus with it. The bus station had a little cubbyhole corner at the bus station in Jacksonville for the Colored people. It was a little angled like that. Wasn’t a way but only two people could get in there, and you couldn’t sit down. That was the waiting room for the Colored.

	SD:	They had them standing, mmhm.



	LR:	So, I didn’t go in, I was on the platform waiting for the bus. So the bus came in going to Ocala. It’s two buses. One came in an hour early, and the next one was an hour later. The one that come in an hour early came through Island Grove and Hawthorne. The other second came around through Gainesville to Ocala. So the first section, Island Grove section, the dispatcher said, “Can I have five Colored servicemen?” This is during war time, 1943 or [19]44, World War II. “Can I have





five Colored servicemen?” So three soldiers came up. They says, “Any more Colored servicemen?” There was only three. So he say, you boys stand aside. They wouldn’t let the servicemen fighting for the country get on the bus. They filled the bus up with White folk, even the back seat. And they say, “All you folk have to wait for the next section.” Well the next section went through Gainesville. I wanted to get on that one, because that was a straight shot to Ocala. Going to Gainesville and then coming over there, that’s way out the way, you know.

Anyway, next section came in, man came in, “Can I have five Colored servicemen?” It’s still only three. So they had all the Colored folk aside, and they loaded up the bus, except that one little seat behind the driver, the little one seat behind the driver. I saw it. I walked to the man, I say [in a Spanish accent], “Mister, tell me why no can I ride this bus?” [Laughter] He said, “No Colored.” I said [in a Spanish accent], “Me no Colored, Cubano! I must be Ocalá and get my papers, leave, and go Tampa and leave country.” [Laughter] So he looked at me. He walked back over to somebody over there—[pantomimes whispering]— pointing at me. So he came back over, he say, “You get on the bus.” So I got on the bus. You know where I sat, don’t you? Right behind the driver, front seat of the Florida—it wasn’t a Greyhound in those days, it was the Florida Motor Line. I rode on the front seat of the Florida Motor Line. Let me tell you! [Laughter] We left Jacksonville, and some people behind me got off the bus. And we rode down the road a little further and two White men got on the bus. He looked at me sitting on the front seat behind the driver. He said, “My God! You see what I see?” And he sat down behind me where the people had gotten off. And all the White folks





on the bus said “Yeah! He’s the only got on in Jacksonville, I heard him talking.” He say, “Hey, boy! Hey boy, you hear me talking to you.” I didn’t pay no attention. All of a sudden, he hit me on shoulder. “Hey boy, do you—” I turned around and looked at him. “Hey boy, did you hear me hollering? What in the hell is you doing sitting on the front seat of this bus?” I say, “No hablo inglés, Seňor.” [Laughter] He say, “By God, that boy must be a foreigner!”

	MR:	But tell them what happened when you got to Ocala. [Laughter]



	LR:	Oh, but you know one thing: when we got to Ocala, the bus pulled in, it was behind the square. The bus station used to be behind the square up there on Broadway. And there’s a fellow, he’s dead now, Levy Vereen. He was redcapping the baggage up there. When the bus pulled in by him, he see me on the front seat. When the door opened, he looked up and saw me sitting. He say, “Leonard!” [Laughter] He opened his big mouth! [Mimes hushing] I jumped up and walked out, say, [whispering] “I’ll tell you later.” Levy, he passed now. He was out there, he going blow my cover with his big mouth.

	MR:	But you know, we travelled. We built a camper. This is when we were in Washington, DC. Everybody in the neighborhood contributed to this camper. Somebody was putting in new carpeting, so we put carpet on the floor of this truck. Tell him about that trip to—where did we—California.

	L:	We were going across the whole country.



	MR:	That’s what I am saying. We went across all the way across the country in this homemade thing. But it was sharp. Somebody made curtains, somebody contributed this. And we had our three children, we were travelling. And it was at





the time when they had the riots in Watts, and all these others kind of things. Remember, Lenny?

	L:	I have a picture I want to show you. Keep talking.



	MR:	But we started out—I can’t remember all these things, but we were in Denver, the brakes went out.

	L:	We went south first. We went from DC to Virginia, we left the dog in Petersburg. MR:	Yeah, we left the dogs in—

	L:	In Petersburg. Uncle George. MR:	Uncle George.

	LR:	I told—we was in Mississippi. On the beach in Gulfport, Mississippi. And I told my children, “Y’all go play on the beach over here. And you stay on there and play with”—while my wife is cooking dinner? “And y’all don’t go over there where”—I didn’t say ‘White folk’—“Y’all play in the peaceful water here.” I looked out there; they were over there with the White kids, playing and having a good time in the water. My wife say, “Look at them. They over there.” I say, “Let them go.” Ain’t nobody say nothing, either.

	MR:	But you didn’t tell what happened before we got on the beach.



	LR:	Oh, oh, oh! When I drove on the beach, I had this camper, and this man had this little stand. And it had a overhang, you know, where you open to get the stand open. And I drove my truck and knocked this flap on the man. And I say, “Oh Lord, in Mississippi? Hit this White man’ stand in Mississippi?” I jumped out of my truck, and I helped. I say, “I’m fixing this!” [Laughter] He said, “That’s all right,





that’s all right.” I say, “I just want to know if we can park here.” He say, “You welcome. You welcome to park anywhere you want.” But this is back in 196—

	L:	[196]7. [19]68.



	LR:	[196]7, [196]7, I think. [19]67, because pop died in [19]67. L:	Here’s the camper that we built.

	LR:	Marya got—see, I didn’t know that she had all this.



	L:	That’s the camper that we built. And when say “we built,” we built everything but the stove and the refrigerator and the sink. We built the beds, the walls, mattresses. Remember, we even made the mattresses?

	MR:	But like I said, there were other people in the community if they could—



	L:	That was in the geographic center of the United States, Kansas. See there, we in the geographic center.

	LR:	Well, I said I hear you. Oh yeah, that’s the camper I made. That’s them in the water.

L:  Okay, here’s a picture of him when he was in high school. That is why he could look like the Spanish guy. [Laughter] And this is his grandmother, that she said was wrinkled, but she was pretty when she was young.

	LR:	There’s a picture of me as a baby on the back. L:	How about that?

	LR:	That’s a picture of me when I was a baby. L:	How about that?

	LR:	Ain’t that something?





	L:	If I didn’t have it and didn’t put it outside, it would be gone forever, right? And here’s another picture of him in his police uniform in Washington, DC.

	LR:	You know, I didn’t know we had all them pictures. MR:	We had them.

	L:	I had more, but your son took them.



	MR:	The kids took them. Those are the three children. Where are the three children?



Marya, Lennie, and—



	L:	That’s us when we were little. MR:	That’s when they were little.

	LR:	You know, this is me in the baby pictures. You know that? Doris and Aunt Ethel. L:	Yeah, I got one of you and Mommy. I’m trying to think of it.

	LR:	Ain’t that something? Here’s my baby picture. Here’s a picture of when I was nine years old at the World’s Fair. 1939. I didn’t know it.

	L:	I don’t have one of your boat. MR:	You don’t have one in the boat?

	LR:	That’s me as a baby. You see me as a baby? SD:	Oh yeah. You still have a hole in your hair.

	LR:	That is my aunt. My aunt holding.



	MR:	Marya, what would George—you know, when they had the riots— L:	I have one of Uncle George.

	MR:	You know when they had the riots out there in Watts, he went down there to help set up the program and everything else. He was a teacher at Virginia State College.





	L:	This is my father here. To show you our family background: that’s my mother’s father, and that’s my father’s mother. [Laughter] Does that look like Aunt Bea off of Andy and Maybury? Does she look like Aunt Bea?

	LR:	Who is that? L:	Your mother!

	LR:	Oh yeah.



MR: And my father. L:  And her father! M:   Father, mother.

MR:  I told you. In school, kids used to say, “Is your momma White?” “No.”



LR:  That used to say, what that White woman doing coming to school for me? [Laughter]

L:  Here’s another one of his grandmother. M:  Okay.

L:  This is him as a little boy. How old are you in this picture, Daddy, with your cousin? How old were you in that picture? Down there. How old were you? Where your thumb is?

	LR:	I was about five or six years old. Where you get that picture from? L:	This is Ocala when they still—

	LR:	Marya, this is a picture of me and Doris when we were young. L:	This is Ocala in 1967.

	MR:	Yes sir. I have seen these pictures. LR:	I never saw that. I never saw that.





	L:	No, that’s New York City. But this is Ocala in 1967. That’s in front of the house that he said that he gave away, but he sold.

	MR:	This picture here was what, Marya? You the only one sitting.



	L:	That was when I was working for the Agriculture Department. Now that’s Aunt Minnie and them in the house. There’s a big tree there now.

	LR:	Yeah, that is Little Lenny, all y’all. MR:	Where was this taken?

	LR:	I was five or six years old in that picture. M:	Oh, were you trying to get it to her?

	L:	Yeah.



	M:	Oh, okay.



	MR:	I really said Eddy, or Marya, Tanya, anyone one of you.



	L:	This is another view of the camper. My father, he killed a snake on the highway.



You can’t really see it there, but that’s a snake on a stick. We were driving out west. Well, we were driving, these are people that we met—I think this is Indiana or Illinois—and they ended up being related to my mother, but we were just driving down the road and asked the people could we pull in their yard.

	MR:	And didn’t know we were related.



	L:	We didn’t know they were related. And we never been in this state in our lives.



Never.



	SD:	How did find out you were related? MR:	Later on.

	L:	Kept talking.





	SD:	Oh, just kept talking.



	L:	This happens all the time. I was in a laundromat last week, and this lady came up to me—it was last week—and she said, “Is that your mother in the car?” I said, “Yeah.” She said, “She sure looks like my sister.” I said, “Well, she can’t be your sister.” She said, “Well, where is she from?” So we started talking. I said, “You know what? You don’t look like my mother, but you look like my husband’s mother or something.” And she said, “Really?” I said, “Well, where you from?” She said, “Well, I have people in Alachua County.” Said, “My husband’s from Alachua County.” She said, “Well, we’re Simmons.” I said, “He’s a Simmons.” And that was in a laundromat not in Alachua County. So, you can meet people.

	SD:	You can, yeah. That is true.



	MR:	On our travels, Marya—were you there? Yeah, you were with us when we were going across country. Or was it in—no, was it in Chicago?

	L:	No, we didn’t go to Chicago.



	MR:	But baby, that was on our way back. L:	No, we never went to Chicago.

	MR:	Daddy and I went, yeah.



	L:	In the 1950s. But in the 1960s, our route was going down I-95 from Washington, DC through the I-95 to Florida, out US-90, because I-10 hadn’t been built then, and we went through—

	LR:	Did you see my picture when I was five years old? MR:	They saw it. They saw it.





	L:	We went from Mississippi and Alabama. When we got to Louisiana, now Mommy see if you remember this, Louisiana was extremely segregated at the time, and everybody was swimming in Lake Pontchartrain. We didn’t realize that there were no brown-skinned people, because in Louisiana, you could be Black but be whiter than you. Because that’s just how the color complexions work out. We didn’t realize, so my mother said, “Why don’t we swimming?” And this is Lake Pontchartrain. When we got into the water, all of the people got out the water.

And my mother goes, “What happened? Is it sharks?” [Laughter] Lake Pontchartrain, right? There’s no sharks in the lake; we were the sharks.

	SD:	I hear you.



	L:	To see the difference in Louisiana. When we had just left Gulfport and Biloxi, where every corner you see the Confederate Flag. And you actually see the hoods from the KKK. They still had these emblazed on every corner in the 1960s. Now, they didn’t treat us like that in Biloxi. We met people from Tennessee, they gave us fruits from the muskmelons from Tennessee. They told us we could eat with them, and they were very friendly and hospitable. They traded information, addresses. But one state over in Louisiana, we, three little children, got into some water, and the entire White population that was swimming got out of the lake.

And my mother thought that it was because there were sharks and didn’t realize we’re not in an ocean, this is a lake. That was in Louisiana. Then we go a little further, and we go into Texas. My mom goes into the Alamo. Do you want to tell them what you did at the Alamo, Mommy?





	MR:	Well, I went to the Alamo. I went into my purse to get a pencil to write something.



His aunt had given me a bottle of My Sin perfume. It was a good-smelling perfume. And it fell and dropped, and it just lit up the Alamo. So, the guard came over. He said, well—how did he say it? “You left your heart in San Francisco, but you left your scent at the Alamo.” [Laughter]

	L:	And then, from San Antonio, we went to a little town in Texas called Del Rio.



Remember this, Daddy?



	LR:	Del Rio?



	L:	Del Rio. And then on the other side of Del Rio is Acuña, Mexico. LR:	Yeah, that’s on the border.

	L:	Yeah, we went into Acuña, Mexico, and that’s where he decided we’re not going as tourists. That’s how we caught in Calexico, because we looked like tourists, and they were charging us too much money. Now the first Texas to Mexico—

	MR:	We got on the bus.



	L:	—entrance we went to. So the next time, we went to El Paso, Texas, and walked across with all the other Mexicans. We weren’t going pay any money. We walked across like all the other people on the footbridge, and we went in Juarez. We went into a bullfight.

	LR:	Yeah, I paid a nickel to ride the bus, and they wanted to charge me for her. They say, “She old enough.” I say, “No, no, no, no, no!”

	L:	That’s where the nuns tried to take me by the hand and thought I was a little girl that belonged with the other Mexican children. But anyway, to tell you how reality strikes, my mother has got to be prim and proper. It was hot in that bullfight. And





Daddy wasn’t going pay ten cents for us to sit in the shade, so we had to sit on the sunny side, because it cost ten cents—

	LR:	I didn’t know about the sunny and the shady side.



	L:	It cost ten cents less. So, we were on the hot side. And so, we were so thirsty.



We didn’t want any more soda. We wanted water. What did we do? We saw water coming off the trough.

	LR:	Coming out the mountain.



	L:	Out of a pipe, right before a trough. LR:	And we drank it.

	L:	And we drinking water off the trough. Mother, “Oh, you going get sic! I am not going drink that!”

	LR:	No, she wouldn’t drink it.



	L:	“I’m going to get sick. I’m going to restaurant and get ice water.” LR:	And got sick.[Laughter]

	L:	She the only one got sick!



	LR:	The only one got sick was her in the restaurant. L:	And we drinking out of a pipe.

	LR:	We drank water coming out the mountain. MR:	Out of a pipe.

	L:	We drinking out of a pipe, off a spout.



	LR:	We didn’t get sick, but she went to the restaurant and had ice water. L:	And paid money for it!

	LR:	And paid for it and got sick.





	L:	And we was drinking the water that the horses drink. LR:	And people drank out the water, too.

	L:	But I am saying, but it was a trough for animals underneath it. SD:	I understand.

	L:	And she was, “Oh, y’all gonna die. Y’all going get sick!” And that was in El Paso and Juarez, Mexico. And we had to drive all the way to California now, so we already got it down pat. We going to look like natives. Me and daddy and the kids. Mommy’s sick as a dog. “I don’t think I’m gonna live.” That’s why she had to go back into California, because she had to go to a pharmacy to get something. Because she was sick, but we were healthy. We drank the rain water off the side of the building.

	MR:	You got it naturally.



	L:	That’s why you went back into California. But had she not gone back, maybe we would have never been stopped, but she was too sick. And we had to be detained—because he forgot, this the other part of the story: it was a man who had broken out of jail down in Guadalajara, and had taken his daughter from the orphanage, and they were trying to get back into America. I matched the description. He matched the description. It wasn’t just that we were Mexican- looking, like. We matched the description of an escaped convict and the daughter that he had taken from the orphanage. That is why they didn’t let us go. And the fact that we could both speak Spanish and whatever. So that’s why we got in trouble.

	JD:	And you said you’re a police officer in Washington, DC.





	L:	That didn’t work.



	MR:	No, it didn’t work. I had to bring his ID back over there to show it.



	L:	Because if you had seen him, when I tell you that his look matched what we needed to look like—did you see that picture? He could really look authentic, whatever he wanted to be overall. You see this hat. You see that? Okay, that is how he looked.

	LR:	Who that? MR:	That’s you.

	L:	You see this picture with the cowboy hat? Okay? He could have looked like he was working on one of those farms and goes back and forth. And that is how he looked, just like, when we got basically arrested, because they weren’t letting him leave. They kept him detained inside.

	MR:	“You can call Washington, DC.”



	L:	Everybody knows Washington, DC is the capital of the United States, and nobody in California is going to talk about Washington, DC, right? So then we went from there to California. We went to Disneyland. Remember? We were in Anaheim.

	LR:	Anaheim, yeah.



	L:	Yeah, we went to Disneyland. Rode the Matterhorn. I got sick. Went to It’s a Small World.

	LR:	[Singing] “It’s a Small, Small World.”



	L:	My mother is the so-called gambler in the family, Daddy’s not. He put in a nickel in, and what’d you get, forty dollars, Daddy?





	LR:	Yeah, I hit the jackpot.



	L:	You got forty dollars in nickels. My mother put in a dollar— LR:	She was ding-ding-ding-ding-ding-ding-ding-ding-ding.

	L:	She didn’t get nothing!



	LR:	Just dinging. Ding-ding-ding. Losing my money. You know one thing? I sat up on the counter and had an ice cream and a piece of pie? While she was ding-ding- ding, just throwing, she threw away twenty dollars, and I hit the jackpot up on the table.

	L:	On a nickel. I’ll never forget. And this is the first place we ever saw homemade doughnuts. Remember that Mommy? We went in there, and they were making doughnuts from scratch and putting it into the oil. And we were fascinated, because we’d never seen homemade donuts before. From there we went to Utah, remember this, Mommy?

	MR:	Uh-huh.



	L:	We went to St. George, Utah. And this time, people of color were not permitted into the Mormon, the Latter-Day Saints facility of worship. In fact, we were not considered really humans at that point. We were substandard humans. This is in the 1960s. But, they were very gracious toward us. They told us we could not go into their temple, but they let us into the basement. We were the first Blacks to even go into their basement.

	LR:	We were the first Black people they saw, I believe! [Laughter] We went to some place out west that they say they’d never seen Black people before.

	MR:	They called the town to see if it could rub off.





	LR:	They say they never seen Black peoples before



	L:	And they told us all about Joseph Smith and the Latter-Day Saints, but I have not forgot that. That was in St. George, Utah. We also had to go through Denver.

Denver! Oh. My father, you know, we built this Bronco. Is that where the transmission died? Or something died.

	LR:	It stuck. The brake stuck.



	L:	We were at the top of the mountain in Colorado, and he had to freewheel it, free- wing it, with no brake and no transmission. Because you didn’t have brakes either; something had gone wrong there. And he made it from the top of the mountain to the bottom of the mountain. And we got to the bottom of the mountain: was a Ford, remember that? A Ford, it was a factory or something.

	MR:	It was a Ford dealership.



	L:	It was a Ford dealership. We went from the top of the mountain not knowing if we were going safely going to make it to the bottom of the mountain—because we went through all these hairpin turns, and this is before they had the fancy interstates, so, we were on them two-lane kind of roads.

	LR:	Going around the mountains and all.



	L:	With no barriers on the side, and his speed is getting progressively faster. And with the weight of us on top of the camper, we had to kind of strategically, “Where we going sit now?” as we are going down, descending this mountain. And at the base of the mountain was a Ford, I remember it was a dealership or something; they fixed the truck.

	MR:	They fixed it.





	M?:	But that was God’s blessing, because we could have been at the bottom, it could have been a Chevy dealership, right? But anyway, it was that. We got that fixed.

	LR:	He had his hands around us all our life.



	L:	Yes, we have been a very blessed people. And then from there, we went into Colorado, Kansas, Missouri. The next exciting thing was Ohio. Remember this, Mommy? We went across a bridge that went from Ohio into West Virginia. And mother goes, “Man, this is the ricketiest bridge I have ever seen in my life! How do people cross this?” One week, one week after we made it back to Washington, DC—

	LR:	Collapsed.



	L:	That bridge collapsed.



	MR:	Maybe you all too young; all the cars fell, a lot of people died. L:	All the people that were on the bridge died.

	LR:	You know one thing? You know one thing? Speaking of that, I was in Chicago— at my uncle’s house in Chicago. And we had to take the train to go downtown.

The L, you know.



	SD:	Yeah, the L.



	LR:	And we was going around a curve downtown. The train’s like [screeching noise]. I say, “Listen to this thing! It seem like it going fall. Fall off this track, because it squeaking like that.” My uncle say, “Oh no, don’t worry. It been squeaking like that for a hundred years. It ain’t going fall.” On the day I came back to Washington, when I got back, you know what happened?

	MR:	It fell.





	LR:	That train fell off the tracks. That same train fell off the track! [Laughter] SD:	The same train, really?

	L:	But to tell you how life always comes around in a circle: that happened in 1967. Now flash up to 1987. I’m working as a health inspector in St. Augustine, Florida, and the woman that worked under me was from Ohio. And I said, “Oh, I been to Ohio when I was a little girl. In fact, we crossed a rickety bridge between Ohio and West Virginia, and it collapsed the week after we were on it.” She says, “My father was on that bridge.” She said, but what happened was, there’s a piece of the bridge that’s still on land before it goes over the river. His car stalled on the part of the bridge where it was still over land. And so, he never got on the bridge. She said what happened was that all the people that lived in Ohio that went back and forth to West Virginia to work in the mines or whatever, they had just had a shift change. So there were people coming from work and people going to work. And the weight of all those cars and people, the bridge could not sustain it. And he said all the men in his shift died but him, because his car stalled on this part of the bridge before it got onto the part over the river. I said, “Isn’t amazing?” My mom said, “I can’t believe it. This thing looks too rickety!” And then, let’s go back: I told you I flew over a volcano in 1991. One week after I got back to Florida, the helicopter—I don’t know if it was the same one that I was on, but a helicopter that was operated by the tour company that I flew over, it was sucked by the heat convection into the open lava.

	SD:	Oh, gracious!





	L:	Because I, I don’t know if I can find it, I was only ten or fifteen over the open cauldron of the volcano. And you could see the heat waves. You know how heat waves go on the road? Well, you can imagine heat waves from a volcano. It’s like this. And it was rocking the helicopter like that. I said, “Is this safe?” “Oh, yeah.

We do it all the time.” It wasn’t safe. It wasn’t safe. But like I said, God has had his hands on our family. Like I said, my daddy’s been lost at sea. He didn’t want to tell you that, but when my brother was ten years old, he and my dad and another man went out on a boat.

	MR:	He told them.



L:  Not that part. Not Kenny. I’m talking about Lenny, when he was ten. And Uncle Kenny was still alive. And they had to summon people from New Jersey all the way down to Maryland looking for Daddy, remember?

LR:  Yeah, we spend the night on the boat. L:   In the middle of the ocean, right?

LR:  Mmhm.



	L:	In the middle of the ocean, Atlantic Ocean. My brother was ten, so that tells you how long ago that was. But then, two or three years ago, so you know that’s like a forty-fifty year span of time, my father still going out there and getting caught at sea! [Laughter]

	MR:	I don’t let him go out anymore. You can’t have somebody to go with you, you can’t go.

	SD:	I don’t blame you, mm-mm. MR:	You can’t go.





	L:	Only thing we haven’t been is in airplanes and had problems, right? MR:	Oh, yes he did. We were coming back from—

	L:	Oh, how could I forget? Oh, wow! You know how I want to forget it? Because my son’s going to Hawaii, and I didn’t want him to go through LAX, and he’s going through LAX. My mother and I—I was in a car accident. A congressman ran into the back of me, or his aide ran into the back of me in in his Porsche when I was in law school in 1990. And so, when my settlement came back, I told my mom, I said, “You never been to Hawaii. I have been to Hawaii. We may never get another chance. We got enough money. We’re going to Hawaii!” [Laughter] So I took my mother, and myself, and my nephew Kenny, and we went to Hawaii, we went to Mexico, we went to California. And we had us a good time. We went to three different islands in Hawaii, and our way coming back, we stayed about four days in California with my husband’s good friend in California. We left their house. We had a rental car. I said, “Okay, Mommy. Let me drop you off at the airport, and I’ll go take the rental car back,” like I’d done in every other place. But I didn’t realize how big LAX is.

	SD:	Oh, yes.



	L:	LAX is another city onto itself. So, the rental car place is here. Six miles down the road at the other end is where the plane is you have got to catch. So I drop them off, they had the suitcase, luggage, and everything. Even my pocketbook. I didn’t even keep my pocketbook, which was stupid! And so I said, “Let me go park it.” On the way coming back, I’m looking at the time, and I’m like, “Oh, I only got two minutes. I don’t think they are going hold the plane for me. I got two minutes!” So





as I’m walking up to the counter, it’s already said “Flight departed.” I’m like, “Oh, man!” I had no money, no pocketbook, no driver’s license, no ticket, no clothes, no nothing. I’m homeless in LA. And no mother, no nothing. So I’m all dejected. I said, “Now, what am I going to do?” This is before cell phones. This is before internet. I look to my left. “Momma! What did you do? Did y’all get on the plane and get off the plane or something?”

	MR:	Don’t remember, but I remember that.



	L:	I think she realized that I wasn’t going to make it, so she got off of the plane and was waiting for me. So, at least we were all together, and she had my pocketbook with my money. Because otherwise, we really would have been up creek. So anyway, so we missed the plane. Now we got to figure out what we going do now, because our friends think we on our way back to Florida, and we’re homeless in LA. Because we gave up our hotel room, we gave up our rental car. We have nothing. So I said, “Okay. So let’s get on the bus. We are going to figure out how to transnavigate through LA on the city bus.” We had to go all the way to Hawthorne, California. So, we ride on the bus. Y’all, we homeless. What do homeless people? We just on the bus having a good time. And I know what we were going do. We made it to Hawthorne, California. My husband’s friend had gone to an LA Lakers game at the Forum, and his wife was working at the mall. Said, “Well, Mommy, we could walk around the mall until the mall closes, and then hopefully walk over to the house when they get off, and maybe they’ll let us in their house or something.” Yes, they let us in the house.





We spent the night. They weren’t looking for us, so we slept on the floor. That morning, there was a earthquake.

	MR:	That’s right, that’s right. There was. L:	There was an earthquake in LA!

	SD:	They have them.



	L:	I said, “Well,” I said, “let’s go.” Did we ride the bus? They didn’t drive us, did they?

	MR:	I don’t remember.



	L:	I think we rode the bus back, too, because we didn’t have any luggage. All we had was pocketbook. So, we knew how to take the bus back to airport. We got back. The plane we got on, as it was coming into Jacksonville, Florida, it got about Tallahassee, and they were supposed to get the landing gear down. And the pilot gets on the announcer and says, “I’m sorry to inform you, but I cannot tell whether or not the landing gear has descended. And if it has descended, I cannot be sure that it’s locked into place. So, what we’re going to do is we’re going to detour this plane to Gainesville, and have a little airplane come up underneath this jet.” Jet travels at about five hundred miles per hour. Plane at about a hundred and fifty miles per hour. He said, “Now, this is a dangerous maneuver, but this is the only way that we can try to secure whether or not the landing gear has descended.” So we detour to Gainesville. The jet’s going five hundred, the planes goes underneath. And he says, “Okay, yes. The landing gear is down,” but the instrumentation would not secure whether or not it was locked into place. Okay, we got about ten minutes before we get to Jacksonville.





They’re going to foam the runways, because we don’t know if we are going to have a crash landing or not.

MD:  And we had to prepare.



	L:	“Prepare for crash landing.” And the pilot wanted everybody to know this was no joke. He really meant it. He pulled back the curtains, walked up and said, “Look, this is the first time I’ve ever done it. My name is Captain So-and-so. Please follow the instructions of your flight attendant. This is for real. This is serious. We don’t know.” There’s this one man who thinks he knows everything. He was a passenger. He said, “Ha! This is not going to happen.” There was a lady. She stood about six foot tall. A stewardess. Her name was Edith. I’ll never forget it.

She said, “Mister, this is no joke!” Took the man and pushed his head down! [Laughter] She said, “This is for real!” They were scared. When she did that, everybody [inaudible 3:08:10]!

MR:  Everybody’s head was down.



	L:	All the people that couldn’t bend it from the knee to the legs. And my little nephew was crying, “Are we going to die? We going to die?” As we entered the Jacksonville Airport, somehow, even with our heads down, we could see there were fire trucks on both sides of the runway where we were. They had cleared them, and they foamed the runway, because they did not know if we were going to crash. When he landed safely, the pilot ran back and said, “Thank God, we made it safely. You can now exit the plane.” Everybody rushed into the bathroom, because it was like, “Thank you God, we made it!” So, that was our experience coming through LAX from Hawaii.





	MR:	That was an experience. From Hawaii.



	L:	Now my baby has to go to Hawaii by himself. He is not going have a mommy. I had my mommy, and I was thirty-something years old. He’s seventeen. That’s why I didn’t want to recall Hawaii, Mommy.

	MR:	That’s all right, we made it.



	L:	Oh yeah, we made it. But we were together and got lost at LAX and messed up, right? So anyway. That was our trip through Hawaii, but it was interesting. When we went to Hawaii, we learned some things. The people that we see on TV that we think are Hawaiian are not necessarily Hawaiians. Hawaiians look more like my mother and my father.

	SD:	That’s right.



	L:	Those are more like people from Polynesia like from Tahiti, that the Hawaiians looked like then. Because when we there, remember the man told us that there is only three hundred to five hundred full-blooded Hawaiian people left. Because they had intermingled with all of the other people through Japan, and China, and other countries. And he was a big guy. He was about six foot four or five. They are big people.

	MR:	Yeah, the guys are really big.



	L:	Uh-huh. We learned what Hawaiians look like and about their outfits. MR:	What was that guy’s name, Marya?

	L:	Heavy D or Heavy.



	MR:	[Inaudible 3:10:02], was that his name?



	L:	No, what we called him. He was huge. That book got damp.





	LR:	You know, you talking about people intermingling. It was a article I read in a magazine years ago, years ago, about Virginia. They say there was no such thing as a white, full-blooded White person in the state of Virginia. You know, people don’t realize that when slavery first started, they brought the slaves from Africa to Virginia. Not only that, they had what you call indentured servants from Europe. White that they brought to Virginia. And the indentured servants was the same as slaves. They mingled. You take my father-in-law: he is a product of the indentured servants mingling with the slaves. Because in all essence of the word, he was a White man.

	MR:	You saw a picture of him. LR:	He was a White man.

	L:	White.



	LR:	Pop Davis, his brother would get mad if you called him a White man. And Ennis was whiter than Pop.

	.L:	I have pictures of all of them. I have a picture all of them.



	LR:	And Uncle George, he was a redneck. Uncle George was so White that you could see the blood coming out of him. He was a redneck. I’m not joking.

	L:	This is Uncle Ennis, the one he was talking about. Now, he looks like a Confederate, doesn’t he? [Laughter]

	LR:	You got a picture of Ennis?



	L:	I got a picture of Ennis. I’m going show Uncle George, too. Here’s Uncle George. LR:	He would get mad if you called him Black.

	L:	This is his older brother, Uncle George.





	LR:	Uncle George.



	L:	You see him? And I’m going show you my mother’s father if you didn’t already take a picture of that. There was the three brothers.

	LR:	Did you see this? You got Uncle— M:	Is that him right there?

	L:	And next to your Uncle Walker.



	LR:	No, that’s Uncle George. He’s a redneck.



	L:	Uh-huh. And I’m going show them your granddaddy, I mean granddaddy. And then on the other side was Uncle Ennis.

	LR:	There’s me with that double-barreled shotgun that I was talking about that burned up.

	MR:	That burned up.



	M:	Oh, yeah.



	L:	I just had one with your daddy, Mom.



	LR:	That old Long Tom double-barreled shotgun. SD:	Yeah, I’m so glad these pictures are here.

	L:	Okay, now, this is my mother’s father. So that is three brothers. And do they all not look Caucasian?

	M:	Yeah.



	L:	I mean there’s nothing African. M:	I wouldn’t have guessed.

	L:	He could be your father or grandfather, right?



	M:	Looks a little like my grandfather, actually. [Laughter]





	L:	See, there’s nothing African or Afro-centric. There was no aspect of them that looked in any way—especially him. He looks like he should be called Pappy with a corn cob—he looks like a Confederate.

	LR:	Who is that? L:	Uncle Ennis.

	MR:	This is Uncle George here.



	LR:	He used to like to take me with him, wherever he go. And I’d get in the restaurant, “Uncle George!” And everybody looked around. [Laughter] Uncle George!

	SD:	Oh no, you didn’t go in there!



	L:	We have a picture that I’m going show you the contrast in the family complexion.



He’s holding Jomia when she was a baby.



	SD:	Oh yeah, yeah. Because I remember that with the dog. L:	The complexion contrast.

	MR:	That’s Uncle George and your mother. L:	Yeah. [Laughter]

	L:	I’m telling you, they mixed.



	MR:	That was you, and that’s Uncle George. That Cocker Spaniel only loved my father. If he was asleep in his chair, you touch him: Grrrrr! I said, “Now, look: you better behave yourself. We have to feed you!” I mean, animals loved my father. It was a bluebird.

	LR:	That’s Rosewood MR:	It was a bluebird.





	LR:	That was in Rosewood.



	L:	That was his property. In fact, that was in front of your house. One of them showed the house.

	MR:	Anyway, this bluebird would come fly into the house for my father. And he’d sit there.

	L:	Let me see if I can it. MR:	Can you imagine that?

	L:	Some of my pictures were damaged with this recent—



	MR:	And I said, “Look, it’s time for you to go, buddy. I don’t want you messing in the house.” I’d open the door, and he would fly out. Yeah, he would go out. My father would go outside, and he would come out there and sit.

	SD:	He have to train him?



	MR:	No, I don’t know; animals just liked him. SD:	That’s interesting.

	LR:	That really is powerful. M:	Yeah, yeah.

	MR:	This must’ve your first birthday party. “Happy birthday.” L:	Whose?

	MR:	[Inaudible 3:15:00].



	L:	See, so many things that this—. MR:	Mother had put in the paper.

	L:	When he died, a year after he died.



	MR:	This one just says, Happy Birthday, Honey. [Inaudible 3:15:13].





	L:	I am trying to see if I can find another. LR:	That’s your daddy.

	MR:	Yeah.



	LR:	There was a little dog. MR:	His little dog.

	SD:	Oh, that’s a cute little dog. MR:	Izzie.

	LR:	That dog wouldn’t let you get near him, either. He’d be sitting in the chair, and you go near him? Grrr-rrr-rrr-rrr! That dog get you, ready to get you. Never forget that little dog, stupid dog.

	SD:	He was protective.



	MR:	He always liked my father.



	L:	I thought I had another one of the house. There was one with Uncle George standing in front of the house. I guess that one—

	LR:	This is the best dog I had. This Frisky. MR:	Little Frisky.

	LR:	That was Frisky. You know I got— L:	That was my dog!

	LR:	Frisky?



	L:	Was mine!



	MR:	But we were in Rosewood. You know when you come into that road to go back, the sand would be so sugary that I’d have to call—I’d park the car, I’d whistle,





and the dogs would come to meet me. So I wouldn’t have to go back by myself, especially if it was dark at night. Any time I whistled for them, they would come.

	SD:	That’s good. Yeah, that’s good. MR:	That was the best dog.

	LR:	See, they were running free. They wasn’t chained. [Laughter] But Frisky was an all-around dog. And I got him as a puppy. And I used take him to the park, and up to rabbits. And say, “Get him, Frisky!” Frisky would sit there, look at the rabbit. I say, “Well, get them, Frisky!” He was a hound dog that wouldn’t chase a rabbit. Let me tell you, my next-door neighbor say, “Let’s go hunting down Virginia.” So I say we’d take Frisky with us. I was walking through the woods, and Frisky was sniffing around. And all the sudden I heard something, was like [barks]. Frisky!

Frisky had upped the biggest deer you wanted to find! And he was dead on that deer—[Howl]—and he was hollering. [Howl] He ran and brought the deer back up the road. I was standing in the road, and here come the deer up the road, and Frisky dead on it. [Howl] And I stand, and the deer coming dead at me. I say, back out! I just shot after that. When I did that, the deer jumped over the hedge, and Frisky came up there, [Barking]. And when deer jumped up, and he took off running after him again. I said, “I got a deer dog instead of a rabbit dog!” [Laughter] But you know one thing? Let me tell you about Frisky: Frisky would put his feet up on a tree and look up. You know what it meant? A squirrel was up there. He done treed the squirrel. Let me tell you, my wife—I’m going tell you a secret. She say, “Let me go hunting with you.” So I gave her my little .410 shotgun. And we were going along, and Frisky was walking along the road, and





all of the sudden, Frisky froze, his tail shot back. I said, “Oh, look at Frisky.” There was a big pile of brush here. I say, he pointed birds. I say, “I got a all- around dog!” [Laughter] So I say, “Mary, get ready. Get ready for some birds, because Frisky pointing them.” I say, “You ready?” She said, “Yeah, I’m ready.” I say, “You sure you ready?” She say, “Yeah.” I say, “Get them Frisky.” Frisky leaped on the pile. And the birds—[Clucking]. She—“[Screaming]!” [Laughter] Threw the gun away, and fell on the ground.

	SD:	You were scared!



	MR:	Not only that; when we got up, I didn’t notice there were some hogs on the other side of the fence. I climbed over the fence. They thought I was going to feed them. And here they come rushing me! “[Screaming]!”

	SD:	From the birds to the hogs, what did you do? Get out of the field?



	LR:	The hogs were chasing her, and she was running, the hogs behind.[Laughter] SD:	You couldn’t get away fast enough!

	LR:	I died laughing. I stood there and died laughing. MR:	He stood there and laughed at me.

	LR:	She threw the gun away! Scared her to death. SD:	You had no idea they were going to attack you. MR:	No, I didn’t know that—

	L:	Here’s another picture. MR:	You hear all that.

	SD:	Hear all that noise.



	MR:	It frightened me to death.







LR:

They were quails. You know, quails.

SD:

Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Oh, my goodness! We are going to have to get you to play



the piano for us.

MR:

We have got to go. I know you been here all day long! Are you sure you don’t



want no soda or nothing now?

L:

Feed you something.

SD:

No, I have some water. I always bring my water when I go out.

L:

I mean, we have other things.

SD:

I know, but I’m fine.

L:

Would you gentlemen like something?

M:

I think we’re doing okay.

JD:

I’m okay.

SD:

Yeah, I’m fine. But this is just wonderful to have this time.

MR:

You better go over there and play before he go to sleep. You know, this his



naptime.

SD:

Oh, is it?

MR:

Don’t you see him? And he is sitting there rocking, too? [Laughter]

L:

And if I put the vibrator on the chair, he’s gone.

MR:

You hear him? He’s ready.

M:

I can understand. A good day for it.

LR:

I don’t know if I can play that thing.

L:

Daddy, you can do it.







SD:

I like that one that you got at your house. That’s a beautiful piano. It’s a beautiful



piece of wood.

LR:

My piano?

SD:

Oh yeah.

MR:

That is an old boy. We had a nice—what do you call it, Marya? A nice piano.

L:

Oh, the piano you have now?

MR:

Not that one. The one we had before that.

SD:

I knew that one, too.

LR:

Or the one from the house there that burned up.

L:

That one from the hotel, no?

LR:

No, that came from Ocala.

MR:

That was a family.

LR:

That was the one that Michelle learned to play on.

L:

Oh, you mean the one that was in Aunt Minnie’s house?

LR:

Yeah, the one that Michelle learned to play on. That burned up. I tell you.

MR:

And we had a nice keyboard up there, and then he decided to go and get this—

LR:

I went and saw this piano. You know when I hit the keys on that piano that I got?

SD:

Uh-huh.

LR:

I said, “Unh-uh! You can have that keyboard.”

SD:

I know it. You got the real deal.

LR:

I like that piano.

SD:

You real deal.





	MR:	Exchanging out a nice, brand-new keyboard for this old—. SD:	I tried to clear a space. So if you want to—

	LR:	I can’t play, Marya. L:	Yes, you can.

	M:	Well this, I think it’s some battery life. L:	If not, there’s a plug over there.

	M:	Okay.



	SD:	We got to get this set up here. M:	Yeah, yeah. I’ll do that.

	[Leonard Reynolds plays piano at 3:22:13] LR:	I can’t remember.

	M:	You’re doing pretty good, there! SD:	He plays like a barhouse piano.

	[Leonard Reynolds starts singing at 3:23:19] LR:	And I used to play years ago:

[Leonard Reynolds plays piano 3:25:06] [Laughter]

	L:	Keep going. LR:	I helped it.

	L:	Oh no, Daddy! Do Oh Yes, My Jesus Can. Mommy on backup. Come on. MR:	Yeah, we back it up.

	L:	Do Yes, My Jesus Can.





	LR:	You know what that was I was playing? I won a prize at the Apollo Theatre in New York just playing that song I just was—“After Hours.”

	SD:	At the Apollo in New York.



LR: Yeah, well that was years ago. SD: Oh, all right. That’s history, too. MR:  Everything is.

L:  Daddy, stay up there and do Yes, My Jesus Can. Mommy going to back you up. MR:  You, too.

L:   I don’t know. [Laughter]



	MR:	And Sherry, too. Go ahead. Go ahead. We can just stand here. LR:	I doubt if I remember it.

	SD:	Oh, he remembers it. Because he played it when I was at your house. LR:	Start me off, Marya.

[Leonard Reynolds plays piano 3:26:57; group sings.] [Applause]

	MR:	Thank you. You did it. L:	Thank you, Daddy

	LR:	You are welcome, daughter. SD:	That was wonderful.

	MR:	We had a nice time with you. SD:	Well, we want to thank you. M:	We had a nice time as well.

	MR:	I think she will never get a group like this.





[Laughter]



	SD:	You were a nice group! M:	Yeah.

	MR:	How many of these have you done? JD:	This is actually the first one. [Laughter] MR:	Oh, Lord! Well, this is one you wanted! [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Derick Gomez; March 9, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, June 22, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019