AAHP 010B; Holmes; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 010B Christine Holmes African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on March 6, 2010 7 minutes | 5 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Mrs. Christine Holmes recounts a terrible storm in 1935 that destroyed their home. They had no official alert that the storm was coming but her father sensed that a storm was picking up and had the family seek shelter in a building on the property with a cement floor. Mrs. Holmes vividly remembers the sky being clear and sunny, with the only sign of a storm being a wind that caused her rope swing to swing violently. After the storm passed, her mother came home from work and thought her family was trapped in the house that had been destroyed. Fortunately, her father brought her mother back to the shelter they were staying in and calmed her down. They lost everything in the storm and had to live in a house that was flooded, and slept on the floor in the water.



Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Hurricanes]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 010B

Interviewee: Christine Holmes Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: March 6, 2010



	H:	—like a radio. A radio, you know, like—I really kind of like this WPRY, and all these people. You adjust the radio, we couldn’t do anything then; we just had to listen at the radio. We couldn’t see it like we did on TV. I can remember that. I think it’s like going on back in the [19]20s, something. Sixes. [19]28 and all like that. I can’t think of them. I’m too old. Lord, it was back in the [19]20s, and the [19]30s, and, like that, I know.

	W:	Well, you remembered a lot of stuff!



	H:	Yes, sir. Yeah, I can remember that. I remember that we didn’t—I told you about the TV. Somebody, I done forgot who he was, but I can remember that it was a White person. But it was too far back, but that was like in [19]27 or [19]28 or something. I wasn’t too old. I was born in [19]22, but I can remember that’s the first—somebody had a TV, and I can’t really remember it. I reckon I was too small. That was the first time I saw a TV, but I can’t exactly—it had to been in the [19]20- somethings. I think I said, “What’s wrong with my tube?” My sister was gone. It had to been like in [19]29 or [19]28, because that’s as far as I can think back. I said, I wasn’t but about seven years old, but I can remember something like that, the first time I saw one. Seven, eight years old, like that.

	W:	Were you ever in a real bad storm, like a hurricane or a tornado?



	H:	Oh yeah. [19]35 out there, storm blew our house down. That was in the [19]30’s. A storm came down here in [19]35. And then I had a sister born in [19]36. Yeah, that was in [19]35. Mmhm. Sure was. I remember because it blew our house down. My momma was gone to work, and when she did come—we went up to, we





was living on a farm back over in here somewhere. I can’t remember, so far back. And she came. She’s walking through the trees and things that planted and all like that? And she was walking trying to—she didn’t see no house, and she was just

a-hollering. My daddy had left us in some kind of little shelter there, and it was propped up. It had a cement floor in it, and it didn’t blow down. We and our, I called it the “boss man” that did then, everybody was in that little house. It had a cement floor to it. And it was leaning one side. Our house had blown down. She got there and didn’t see no house, she was just hollering. That was in [19]35. I remember that because I had a sister born in [19]36. And so, she thought we was up under that house, I reckon, but Daddy had got a flashlight and went to go through the woods and look for her, and left us there with the White lady and her children in this little—I call it a little crib or something, where they keep corn, because hay and stuff was in there. [Laughter] And she come back and our house had blew down, and where I was sitting holding my knee baby—the knee baby in her little chair. That roof—if hadn’t have moved, if my brother hadn’t told me, the baby hadn’t told me to move, then maybe I’d’ve got killed, because that rafter high fell right across the chair where I was sitting. He said, “Daddy, a wall is coming in!” So that’s when Daddy got up and got the baby in his arms, and I had the knee baby, next smallest child, sitting in that chair. We went there and looked. A rafter fell right straight across that chair. So we’d’ve been dead if my brother hadn’t have—the knee baby saw the walls. I guess he said the walls was coming together. That’s the way that lookeded it to me. I can remember that. The walls, they just met. And a rafter fell right across that chair where I was sitting at with the





baby. I got up and leaded my dad, but he grabbed that baby and the other two little—they followed him on out of there. Followed, and he got out, and soon as we got out the house, four walls met. This same little house I’m talking about. It didn’t blow down. It had a little cement floor in it. A smokehouse or a crib or something; it’s so far back I can’t remember. But anyway, them four walls—I remember my daddy holding—he wasn’t holding. He thought he was. The walls just didn’t let them meet. The walls didn’t meet. We stayed in there until it kind of calmed down, then we went on up to this big place, to the boss man’s house. Uh-huh. That was a time that night. Everybody was in the little crib. Because corn was in it, I call it a crib because corn was in there, and hay. [Laughter] I can’t remember, that what I called it. Mmhm, yeah.

	W:	Well, you know, today, we’ve got the Weather Channel, and we know when a storm is coming. How did you know—did you know the storm was coming, or did it just come up on y’all?

	H:	I don’t know how to explain it, because the sun was shining bright like it is now, and the wind just picked up. The wind just picked up. And Daddy said, “You better come in, it’s fixing to rain.” I spotted a little cloud maybe, but the sun was shining just like it is now. I can remember that. You know, back in then, they made the old chains swing up in the tree? You don’t know nothing about it. I know you don’t! [Laughter] And then we had a tie, an old tie off the cord. I was just a-swinging.

Daddy said “You better come in the house!” I see a little cloud making. I mean, that wind was strong! It just came all—it wasn’t raining or nothing, just made up all at once. But daddy, he had been in the field, and I reckon something just told him





to come to the house or something. I don’t know. I was just a-swinging. That wind was real high! I can remember that. Sure is.

	W:	Was anybody hurt?



	H:	Didn’t nobody get hurt in our family. Nobody get hurt right around us right there. I don’t know nobody got hurt. But we just didn’t have a house. And then, when we did move up here, the house is right over there now, where it used to be it’s a church over there. You know where the Tom’s plant over there?

	W:	No, ma’am.



	H:	You ain’t been out Tom’s where this potato chip plant is in Perry? W:	No ma’am. I haven’t.

	H:	Oh you ain’t been that far? But it’s right over there, and right on that street where it says Tom’s Drive, I think. Over there by the church, that big church right down there. It’s right down there behind this church. And that’s where my aunt and stuff was living then, right there. Uh-huh. Yeah, that’s it. That’s the house we had to move in after the storm. The house is right over there too, by this place where I’m talking about. It was down, and water was running up over there--something, had a block or something holding it up. Water was all up under the house. But that’s where we had to live ‘til we could find somewhere to go. And they had a Red Cross, some kind of place that give you furniture after the storm. I reckon called it Red Cross. I don’t know. I can’t remember. But I remember they gave us some mattresses and stuff, but everything we had got destroyed. Momma lost all our birth certificates and stuff in that. I remember her saying they got lost. And that water, we’d lay down on it, we had to sleep all the time on the floor. The water’d





be hitting up under the house at night. Water goes down there now sometime, down there where that place is. But it’s a church down there now, little church. Yeah.





[end of interview]



	Audit edited by:	Anna Jimenez, July 18, 2013 Second audit-edit:	Ryan Morini, June 29, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 16, 2019