AAHP 263; Coleman; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 263 Robert Coleman African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Marna Weston on April 22, 2012 40 minutes | 21 pages

















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 263

Interviewee: Robert Coleman Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: April 22, 2012



	W:	This is Marna Weston for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at Mt. Olive AME church on April the 22nd, 2012. I’m speaking with reverend Robert Coleman from Fort Pierce. Reverend Coleman, thank you very much for the interview today.

	C:	You’re quite welcome. My pleasure.



	W:	Would you please state and spell your full name from birth? C:	Robert Lee Coleman. R-O-B-E-R-T, L-E-E, C-O-L-E-M-A-N.

	W:	And when and where were you born Reverend Coleman? C:	I was born January 9, 1939 in Grove Park Florida.

	W:	Now is Grove Park a large place, a small place? C:	Little country town, right out of Gainesville.

	W:	Okay is it—



	C:	Twelve miles out of Gainesville. W:	Oh, going toward Hawthorne? C:	Yes.

	W:	Okay Grove Park.



	C:	Five miles from Hawthorne.



	W:	Yes, now is Grove Park incorporated? Does it have [Inaudible 00:53] building a mayor kind of thing?

	C:	No, no. When I remember Grove Park we had a traffic light there. That was it—a caution light. Not a traffic.





	W:	How many people would you say live in that community or live in that community when you were living there?

	C:	At that time, 200 at the most.



	W:	Okay, and who are your mother and father?



	C:	My father was Willie Coleman, and my mother was Addie Mae Coleman. Her maiden name was Addie Mae Mills.

	W:	Do you recall their dates of birth?



	C:	My father was born March the 14th, 1898. My mother was born May 12, must have been 1916.

	W:	And where were they from originally?



	C:	My father was originally from Ocklawaha, Florida. And my mother was from Grove Park.

	W:	Okay, now just for a second to talk about your dad, who were his mother and father?

	C:	My father’s mother was Annika Nun. We didn’t know who his father was. W:	Okay, and where was she from?

	C:	She was originally from the Ocala-Ocklawaha area.



	W:	Now your grandmother, Ms. Nun, do you know anything about her parents?



	C:	Not that very much. I know more about my mother’s side of the family as far as documenting heritages.

	W:	Okay, well let’s switch to that side of the family. Who were you mom’s mother and father?





	C:	Her mother was Clyde Mills Williams, and there were a couple of marriages there but we can trace that side of the family all the way back to slavery.

	W:	Really?



	C:	Yeah.



	W:	That’s outstanding to have that type of family history. How about your mom’s dad?

	C:	My mom’s dad was Joe Mills but now he left home and disappeared and we don’t know, didn’t know, of his whereabouts thereafter.

	W:	So anything could have happened, especially in those times. C:	Yes, right, exactly.

	W:	Did she remarry?



	C:	Yes she remarried, and there were other children born at that time. So there were Mills’ children and then the last one was Christian, so I’ve got some uncles by the name of Mills, and one by the name of Christian.

	W:	All one big extended family is what it came to be. C:	Yes, yes.

	W:	Do you have brothers or sisters? C:	I have brothers and sisters.

	W:	Can you list them from oldest to youngest and tell me where you fall?



	C:	My oldest brother was Willie Coleman Junior, he’s passed away now. Next in line was my sister, Clyde Coleman. She got married, Clyde Daniels. She’s still alive today. Then I was next, and then we had a younger brother who’s Marian Coleman. He’s still here in Gainesville as a matter of fact.





	W:	Okay, Marian Coleman the firefighter? C:	That’s right.

	W:	Yes, I’ve met him; terrific. So as you think about the breath and the numbers of the members of your family, can you think also back to what it was like at home? Where there chores, what kind of responsibilities, what things took place in the home with you and your brothers and sisters, and your mom and dad?

C:  My mom and dad were workaholics, so the kids grew up workaholics. We were working when we were little. I was out mowing grass with a lawnmower when I was ten, just to give you an idea, and was working ever since then; so all of us worked. My sister worked through high school, so did my brothers. We were all workers. We had jobs from an early age.

	W:	Did you have a family that was self-sufficient, the creation of its food, did you have gardening or milking chores, or dealing with livestock?

	C:	We had work chores that we had to do because we had gardens, we raised chickens. My father at one time worked for the hatchery, so we had as many as 500 chickens at one time. So it was a, it was a good thing. My brother and I used to take half chicken to school—for lunch. Mom would split them down the middle, and fry them before we left home for school, so we had half a chicken for lunch, and we had so many chickens we wound up trading our half chicken for peanut butter and jelly sandwich with some other kids.

	W:	You just got tired of eating chicken.



	C:	We got tired of chickens so we traded chicken for peanut butter and jelly. W:	What other types of foods did you eat, that your family grew in this garden?





	C:	We grew collards, and we grew vegetables: collards, turnips, things of that nature, squash, beans, watermelons, pumpkins. We had a good garden, and I’m still gardening today.

	W:	Oh really? Do you think that’s because of the way you were raised?



	C:	It’s because of the way I was raised, yes. As a matter of fact I’ve started some garden projects in Ft. Pierce that’s community wide now.

	W:	Your earliest memories of education, where did you first go to school, where’s your first formal learning take place?

	C:	My first education that I remember was here in Gainesville. We went to a kindergarten over near Mt. Carmel, old Mt. Carmel church which was over, right off, well the kindergarten that I remember was up not too far from, I can’t remember the name of the streets now but it must have been about eighth street or so. Can’t remember. But from there I went to Saint Augustine’s parochial school here in Gainesville, and from there we moved, and I round up going to Lincoln elementary. We moved again, out east, and I transferred to Williams Elementary school, and I started doing a lot of good things early in school. And from Williams we went back over to high school at Lincoln, and then it was seventh through twelfth—the old Lincoln school—and I matriculated there from seventh through twelfth grade.

	W:	Before Lincoln High school, can you tell me about some of the teachers that you had, that you feel have had an influence on your life and why they had that influence?





	C:	When we went to Saint Augustine’s Parochial School there were two ladies there, they were the Jackson sisters. They were of the Catholic faith. I remember them, they didn’t wear regular habits as we call them now, but they did wear the white blouses and the black skirts, and they were very good teachers, they were good disciplinarians. They kept us out of trouble, made us do things together as a class, we looked after one another, and they got us off on the right foot, so we were good students by the time we finished the parochial school training there.

	W:	Do you recall their names? C:	The Jacksons.

	W:	I meant their first names.



C:  I think one of them was named Melvice Jackson, and the other one I can’t remember now.

W:  When you say they set you on a good foot, good path, what was it in particular about what they did, were there specific subjects, or was it the manner of their teaching?

	C:	They would not allow us to fight—argue. They taught us that we were to look after one another, that we were to help one another, and their methods of teaching, they taught us to ask questions when we did not understand. They wanted to make sure that we understood what their assignments were, what our tasks were, and the fact that we had to do it, and we had to stay on task until it was finished. So by the time we got to a higher grades we were off to the races, we were on track.





	W:	Now you may have been too young, but do you remember the name of the principal of the Saint Augustine school?

	C:	No I don’t.



	W:	How about the principal at Williams elementary when you were there? C:	Gaston Cook was the principal of Williams Elementary when I was there.

	W:	Do you have any memories or impressions of Gaston Cook that last ’til today?



	C:	Oh yeah. He was a no nonsense principal, he made us understand that the teachers were in charge of the classes, that we should go first to our teachers and that our discipline was going to come from our teachers, not the principal. He taught us that his job was the administration, and he never wanted to see us in the office; if we had a problem, see the teachers. So the problems really never got to him because it wasn’t allowed to get to him. The teachers were in charge, and they took care of all the problems if there were any problems. Youth then, we had a strap at that time so the problems never got to the principal. We didn’t have any reason to go that high, because the strap kept the problems out of the classrooms even. So we all got along.

	W:	Now how about teachers from Williams Elementary that you may remember, does anybody have a certain resonance with you today, a teacher of a certain subject, or somebody that you feel really left their imprint on you?

	C:	I remember Ms. Kelsey. Ms. Kelsey was my third grade teacher, and she really pushed me on. We transferred over to Williams Elementary and this lady just grabbed me in a very special way, and pushed me so much so that I was allowed, we were using workbooks, and she didn’t limit me to a couple of pages.





She said “Do as many pages as you can, let me see what you can do.” the first day I showed up. So I got my little workbook and got busy, and I did ten pages, and she said “My goodness, I’ve never had a kid to do this many pages before,” I said “I can do this every day.” She said “You think you can?” I said “I know I can.” I finished the workbook—that was third grade. So she went down to the fourth grade classroom, got a fourth grade workbook and brought it back. She said “Here, start on this one.” Before the year was out, I finished the fourth grade workbook. She went to the principal and recommended that [inaudible 13:55] fifth grade. So I was promoted from third grade to fifth grade, because I had done the fourth grade workbook while I was in third grade. That was unusual, but it happened.

	W:	How did that make you feel to have that type of accomplishment at that age?



	C:	I felt good, and this is why I remember those teachers so, because I remember what she did. She pushed me to the point where I could do that, and it was a challenge, I rose to the occasion and it was then I began to learn what accomplishment was all about because you could do more than you were, than a task that was assigned to you. So that was very significant to me at that time.

	W:	Okay, so taking Ms. Kelsey’s training and inspiration wherever you went to, Lincoln which was seventh through twelve at that time.

	C:	I was promoted to fifth grade, and in fifth grade my teacher was Ms. Juanita West. And she taught me the same kind of things that Ms. Kelsey was doing. These teachers really pushed you, shall I say in the old days?

	W:	Uh-huh.





	C:	They didn’t say do page five, and you finish page five and that was it. If you finished page five, you went to page six, then to seven, and you stayed busy the entire length of time that class was scheduled for. So by the time I finished sixth grade and went to seventh grade, I was ready for high school.

	W:	Now, don’t want to put words in your mouth, but you seem to be suggesting that the education system of today is different than that in some way. Can you characterize how you think how students are taught today is different from the way that you were taught?

	C:	[Laughter] That’s a good question, and I say that’s a good question because I spent thirty-four years in the classroom as a teacher. Okay?

	W:	So you were really inspired by those teachers, you became a teacher.



	C:	I became a teacher. And as a teacher during my time, I could not do the things that are in the classroom that the teachers did at that time. So that’s why I think it was so significant because I think education has changed.

	W:	Has it changed for the better or changed for less than better?



C:  It depends on what you’re looking for. As far as discipline is concerned, I think teachers have lost a lot that they had. They don’t have the discipline now that they had years ago.

W:   Why is that important? What does that stick out for you?



	C:	Because I don’t think kids are pushed to their limit now, they’re too relaxed. If you start to push them and they complain, they get what they want. You got to give them relaxed time, or whatever, and that wasn’t so back when I came along.





W:   Pardon me for pushing further, may I ask you even more, why is that important?



Why shouldn’t students be able to relax and learn at the pace that they feel is best for them? I think you have an answer for this, I’m just trying to get you to verbalize it.

	C:	Well, I think they’re too many interferences now, and these interferences cause students to become sidetracked, and back in the old days teachers didn’t let you become sidetracked, they kept you on the main line, rather than let you go off on a side track somewhere. And it made a difference.

	W:	Were you involved in any activities in elementary school besides completing your workbooks and being inspired by the teachers, was there student counsel, or plays or things like that?

C:  Yes indeed. We participated in all of those things. Singing in the chorus plays. We had outside activities that we participated in; all of these things. They kept every student involved, no matter who that student was even the handicapped kids were included in activities. And it’s quite not like that now.

W:  Oh well of course today students can complete physical education on the computer.

C:   Exactly.



W:   [laughter]



C:  But we all had to go outside for PE, and everybody participated no matter what your athletic ability was; you still had to compete athletically.

W:  Do you feel that the students tried harder to demonstrate the talents that they had or to work with others as opposed to, some have said students will sit back





and just not do anything and wait, was there more of a sense of urgency as a student to show that you could achieve, to be a part of the school community, to satisfy the expectations of teachers and the principal?

	C:	Definitely. Because I was promoted by head it meant that I was younger than the other kids—I was smaller than the other kids—but when I got to seventh grade, which was high school at that time, I wasn’t allowed to be the smallest kid in school. We had PE with the larger kids, and the larger kids wouldn’t allow the smaller kids to sit out. I was made to play football, even though it was touch football in PE with the big guys. The big guys included all of the little guys, so I was taught to catch the ball, became a good receiver and they wouldn’t tell me, “you go along.” They don’t expect the little guy to go along, and I would go along, they throw the ball, touchdown. Littlest guy in class scoring a touchdown. That’s the way it was then. It’s not quite like that now.

	W:	And so your peers are the ones who were older actually took a role in investment.

	C:	Took the little ones— W:	Okay.

	C:	Yes indeed



	W:	Each one teach one kind of thing?



	C:	Exactly, that was the idea and the attitude at that time. Remember we’re talking in the late [19]40s, early [19]50s.

	W:	So what do you recall about your first year at Lincoln High school as a seventh grader, what impressed you going from middle school to high school?





C:   My older brother was already in high school. While he was in high school, I was in elementary school. He started teaching me how to play an instrument while I was in elementary school. When I got to seventh grade I was already playing in the high school band.

W:   Now why was that important?



	C:	Well it meant an accomplishment for me, because I wanted to see if I could do it. Did so because Jerry Miller, who was the band director at Lincoln high school at that time, allowed me to start practicing for the high school band when I was in sixth grade.

	W:	What instrument did you play, and so you still play?



	C:	I don’t play any longer, but at that time I played mellophone. W:	Mellophone?

	C:	Mellophone, you’re probably familiar with the French horn? W:	Yes sir.

	C:	Okay, well the mellophone had the valves on it like a trumpet rather than the lever valves on the French horn.

	W:	I see I see. I’m fascinated by this concept of the students wanting, the older ones reaching back to prepare you and your brother preparing you before you even got there. What was that sense like, that before you even came to the school the people who were there were saying “we know you’re going to be a part of this, we want to prepare you to continue on with the traditions and the legacy,” or whatever it might be, how does that affect you today, that you were given that support coming in?





	C:	I appreciated that, and I think it would still happen today if those kinds of things were allowed. But we’ve got the rules and regulations now that you can’t advance kids but they come in to something else with new programs, and the new programs would allow this, like the IB programs—things of that nature.

	W:	Who was the principal at the time that you were at Lincoln High school? C:	When I went over it was A. Quinn Jones.

	W:	Of course, okay. And what are your impressions of Mr. Jones? Or can you tell me the first time you had an interaction with him?

	C:	A. Quinn Jones was principal during my time. A. Quinn Jones was my mother’s principal.

	W:	[Laughter].



	C:	And I remember sliding down the bannister from the second story to the first floor, and he saw me slide down the bannister. He walked over to me, and he said “Your Adimay’s boy,” and I said “oh my goodness.”

	W:	[Laughter].



	C:	He said “I’m going to tell your mom, I’m gonna tell Addie Mae on you.” I said “Prof, please don’t.” He said “No, Addie Mae needs to know.” He said “Either I’m going to whoop you or she’s going to whoop you.” I said “Well I’ll go home and tell her.” He said “Okay, do that.” And I went home and told my mom. “Prof caught me sliding down a bannister today,” she said “Well, what did he say?” I said “He told me, he told me who I was, and he said ‘You’re Addie Mae’s boy,’ and I said “Yes I am.” He said “Don’t let me catch you doing this again.” I never slid down the bannister again.





	W:	So you didn’t tell her he said he was going to whoop you or she was going to whoop you?

	C:	No. [Laughter].



	W:	You left that part out? [Laughter]. What were your activities during the seventh grade besides football?

	C:	I got involved in the science club. Got involved in building things because we could take arts and crafts and things of that nature. So I started making corner shelves and things of that nature.

	W:	See now I think that would be fascinating for students today, you know particularly African American students who might be listening to this recording at some time, that in the [19]40s you were doing those things. Why were you in the science club, and why were you building things? What value do you think that could have for students?

	C:	We knew that science was going to be a place where you needed training if you wanted to become a doctor, a nurse, or whatever. You had to have a good background, so that fascinated me and I started studying science. My older brother and sister knew that science was important. They used to talk to me about the experiments that they were doing in high school, so I started tinkering around with them as early as elementary school.

	W:	Did you have a good relationship with a particular teacher that taught science at Lincoln High school?

	C:	Yes indeed. I remember in seventh grade my science teacher was Ms.



Hemming, she was Ms. McClellan at birth, but she got married and she pushed





us in science. We were not allowed to do science and quit. She kept us bust the whole period, and because of this she got me off on the right foot in science, so I became a very good science student; I made As in science. In eighth grade science Mr. Luscious Jackson was my science teacher. He pushed me, would not allow me to have any playtime in school. He kept me busy the entire hour. If I finished early, he found something else for me to do, and kept pushing me. That was in eighth grade. In ninth grade Mr. John Franklin Jones was my teacher, and he used to tell us about the things that happened on his daddy’s farm, and got us into plants and animals and things that were quite interesting. Some kids used to laugh about it, but it fascinated me because I could see the relationship between science and farmers, and everything else, so I learned a lot from John Franklin Jones. And from there Raphael McGee was one of our science teachers, and we were with him I think a couple of years—11th and 12th grade, and he pushed us, and he eventually got into administration; left the classroom and got into administration.

	W:	You have such strong memories of your teachers and how they assisted you and pushed you, I’m curious, I’m going to make this point because of something that Sam Taylor said yesterday, when we were in the library for breakfast yesterday he pointed out it was nice to see that there were books in the library.

	C:	Exactly.



	W:	So do you feel that at the time when you were going to school the teachers, what was their role with having lesser resources, lesser education materials, perhaps even less equipment that might have been in some of the White schools because





of how the laws and things were at that time, and how they taught you as a student, how it was compensated for? What are your thoughts on that?

	C:	I’m glad you asked me that. We had a community library—George Washington Carver Library. A one room building, over on one side bookshelves, but there were windows on the other, on one side, so the windows were at the top, the bookshelves were at the bottom. So there were only about three shelves of books below the windows. Now over on the other side we had the restrooms, so there were no bookshelf space over on that side, that’s where the administration and stuff took place and that’s where the restrooms were, so it want long before I had basically read all of the books at the community library for the Black kids, and that was right off Pleasant street, okay. So my high school librarian concocted a scheme with the White librarian downtown. She said “I’ve got a kid over here that needs to get in the library and check out some books.”

	W:	What was her name? The librarian? C:	Mrs. Jones

	W:	Ms. Jones?



	C:	Yes.



	W:	Alright, please.



	C:	Ms. Jones talked to the librarian, and the library downtown was segregated. We couldn’t go there as a matter of fact, it was not integrated yet, okay.

	W:	And that was in Gainesville, Florida? C:	Gainesville, Florida.

	W:	You couldn’t go to a library because you were a Black child.





	C:	That’s right, exactly.



	W:	And what year was this?



	C:	This was back in the [19]50s; back in the late [19]40s, early [19]50s, okay. So I was riding a bicycle to school back and forth, and the librarians concocted this scheme now, that I would ride my bicycle to the library, I would go in and the librarian would ask “You must be the little boy coming from Lincoln High school to pick up the books for the library,” and I say “Yes I am.” She said “What does Ms. Jones want?” I said “I have a list here.” She said “Okay. You know how to find these?” I said “Yes.” She said “Go find them and bring the books up here.” So I would take my little phony list and go through the shelves and pick out the books that I wanted to check out, put them in a little box, and bring them up to the librarian. I said “These are the books that Ms. Jones wants at the library.” She said, “Okay, tell Ms. Jones she can keep these for three weeks, but then you’ll have to bring them back, and if she still needs them we’ll have to recheck them out again.” I said, “I’ll do that.” And I would check out the books that I wanted out of the quote “White library” and I can leave with them. I’d go back and tell Ms.

Jones “I’ve got the books I want,” she says “Let’s see what you’ve checked out.” Said “This is a good book,” and she said “You picked out a good set of books.

Read these, make sure you understand everything you read. If you have questions come back, ask me about them, we’ll talk about them.” I would read those books, take them back, and we’d go through the same thing again. Even though we were not allowed in the library, I had a way to get in and get the books.





	W:	A very interesting [inaudible 32:29], that there would be that kind of collaboration between the White and the Black librarian. Do you remember the White librarian’s name or was that?

	C:	No I don’t.



	W:	Okay.



	C:	I don’t recall.



	W:	But you remember your librarian’s name. C:	Yes.

	W:	Do you think there may have been other elements of corporation between Blacks and Whites in that way?

	C:	Yes.



	W:	Do any come to mind or?



	C:	From there I started going to the University of Florida library, which was in the Seagull building at little later. The University of Florida had a library up on the eighth floor in the Seagull building, and I would go up to the eighth floor in the Seagull building and use the same kind of rules to get books out of the University of Florida’s checkouts—lending system—and use the science side. I would checkout a lot of science books because I became more and more interested in science.

	W:	It’s interesting, there must have been something really special in those books that they kept them away from so many Black students.

	C:	[Laughter]





	W:	Well as you think about your, the rest of your high school career, you’ve talked about science, you’ve talked about the band, what are some of the highlights of Lincoln High school that you remember that have stuck with you to this day?

	C:	Ms. Frederica Jones, who was the wife of the principal, made sure that her kids—her students—did a lot of reading. She required that we subscribed to Readers Digest, so we became prolific readers. She questioned us every day about what we read; made sure that we subscribed to Readers Digest. And by the time I graduated from Lincoln High school, Readers Digest gave me a scholarship a matter of fact, because I was a prolific reader, I did subscribe to the library, I had submitted some articles and things of that nature. There were a lot of other teachers that did the same kinds of things, and it meant that we did a lot of extra things in school, like I got involved in the chorus, I got involved in writing for the newspaper—The Lincolnian Newspaper—I got in the science club, got in student counsel. I eventually got to be Vice president my junior year and my senior year, president of the student counsel. As a matter of fact we participated in the groundbreaking for the new Lincoln high school. I was president of student counsel at that time, so we went out and turned the first spade of dirt that was going to be the new Lincoln high school, at the sight where the middle school is now.

	W:	What year was that?



	C:	That was in 1954 because I graduated in [19]55.



	W:	I think we’re probably on bar with time, but I just wanted a couple of more questions, and this has been a fantastic weekend—from the banquet to the





breakfast, to last night to the ceremony today—what are your thoughts why this continues, why so many years later so many people like yourself want to come together and celebrate, commiserate, and talk about a school—one that is closed, and two that was segregated—why is this important in 2012?

	C:	I think we’ve let progress come back and bite us, so to speak, because we’ve lost a lot of the tenacity that our teachers had back then. They would not allow us to procrastinate and now I think there is a lot of relaxation in education, so that they aren’t pushing as hard as they used to push, and that there are too many side tracks now, that get kids off the main line and they don’t get to the objective as quickly or as efficiently as they did in the old days. They lose a lot because of the distractions.

W:  You talked a little about all the things in high school that led you to opportunities for leadership, how did Lincoln shape you as a leader and what is your definition of leadership today?

	C:	Leadership today is making the right choices, and demonstrating the fact that you can make the right choices so that others will try to follow in your particular footsteps.

	W:	What are your observations on the election of Barack Obama as the first African American president of the United States and his opportunity to be reelected?

	C:	I think it was just a manner of time. I actually didn’t think it was coming this quickly, so when it did happen, I was happy to see it, and I think now that there is a concerted effort in order to keep this kind of thing from happening again. It’s going to revitalize, I think, a lot of people, like myself, that will try to make an





example of this to show our younger people that if you stay on the mainline rather than be sidetracked by a lot of things, more and more of this can happen.

	W:	Well I found this interview delightful. I hope we have a chance to do a second or third interview, but on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program I’d like to take this opportunity to thank you for today’s interview. It’s been incredibly insightful, and educational; I know it will enrich our archives. I close my interview with that thanks, but then also give you the opportunity, a final comment. So if there’s something you’d like to offer on the interview, or thoughts or something we didn’t cover if you’d make those at this time, and when your remarks conclude I’m not going to be speaking anymore. That’s going to finish our interview.

	C:	I’m very happy to have had this opportunity to chat with you, and thank you. I would be glad to participate again at any time if you would like to interview again, it would be fine, and I would encourage all of the people to try and take a look at what’s happening here now, and become a part of the public that can benefit from your particular endeavors. And thank you so much.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Jennifer Romero, December 2, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, March 8, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019