AAHP 058D; Simmons; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 058D Dr. Gwendolyn Zoharah Simmons Interviewed by Catherine Murphy on January 21, 2019 1hour 7 minutes | 26 pages



Abstract: In this interview Gwendolyn Zoharah Simmons continues to talk about her time SNCC and how it changed her. She initially got involved in SNCC back in her days of Spelman as a freshman. Dr. Simmons goes on to talk about the people that influenced her while in SNCC. She became the Freedom School Director in Laurel, Mississippi. IN the beginning, the school was run out of their office. The Klan bombed the building and they lost all of their curriculum resources. The school continued in a community school in Laurel. Dr. Simmons eventually became a professor at the University of Florida. She goes on to connect her past with the Freedom School with her present day profession.



Keywords: [African American History; Laurel, Mississippi; Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee; Spellman University]



Standards:

	SS.912.A.7.5 Social activism

	SS.912.A.5.7 National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP)

	SS.7.C.3.7 Minority voters

	SS.912.A.7.5 Civil rights tactics

	SS.912.A.7.6 Assess key figures and organizations in shaping the Civil Rights Movement and Black Power Movement.



AAHP 058D

Interviewee: Gwendolyn Zoharah Simmons Interviewer: Catherine Murphy

Date of Interview: January 21, 2019



	M:	So my name is Catherine Murphy and today is January 21, 2019. Interviewing today, Zoharah Simmons. Dr. Zoharah Simmons who was Gwendolyn Robinson in 1963 and [19]64 which is a period that we will be interviewing her about today. Mostly focused on her experience is SNCC and Core related to being the project Director of the Laurel Project. A number of questions specifically about the freedom schools that were created by SNCC and Core during Freedom Summer and beyond and how that legacy is connected to today. That sounds good?

	S:	Yeah. I do have some memory of those freedom schools. [Laughter]



	M:	So, I know that you were in Laurel. Maybe I could just ask you to sorta introduce where you went and—

	S:	And I need to go back to Spelman College and Staughton Lynd and Howard Zinn because that’s where it all starts for me you know?

	M:	Okay great.



	S:	So, I started Spelman College in the fall of 1962 and by what I consider the most wonderful of fate, I was assigned to a special history class with Staughton Lynd. I had gone to Spelman on a full scholarship; unable given my poor family to have been there any other way and have had to literally swear on a stack of Bibles that I wasn’t gonna get involved in the Civil Rights Movement before my folks would even let me go because they were terrified that I was gonna get involved in the Civil Rights Movement. Then of course, Spelman also terrified us during freshman orientation saying “You’ll lose your scholarship if you get







involved in the Civil Rights Movement and we find out about it.” So I’ve got that on one side, I’ve got Staughton Lynd teaching me in a history class. I also became friends with another freshman who invited me to go to her sister’s church and that church turned out to be the West Hunter Street Baptist Church pastored by Ralph David Abernathy whom I had never heard of. I had no idea who he was. So here I’m getting movement gospel every Sunday and in the class I’m getting movement scholarship from Staughton. Then SNCC was right down the street, maybe two and a half blocks and they were constantly on campus urging us to get involved. So they began chipping away at all these promises I had made that I “wasn’t going to get involved.” So, I got involved at freshman year. I did my best to keep a low profile but I signed up for a second course with Staughton Lynd and I already had begun hearing about the Mississippi Freedom Summer Project and that this was going to be one of the biggest Civil Rights events of our historical memory. I had met a number of the Mississippi people and I was so impressed with the field secretaries from Mississippi. They were the rock stars of the movement in my eyes. And so, I was just hearing about Mississippi Freedom Summer and how they were going to recruit up to a thousand college-aged young people to go. That they were going to have freedom schools; that they were gonna do voter registration and they were gonna organize the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party. The more I heard about, the more I wanted to go but I also knew that there was no way that my parents would give permission. I had been raised by my grandmother and my grandmother, all of my memory, had taught me about Mississippi being







very dangerous and very scary and that nobody Black in their right mind would go there if you weren’t born there. [Laughter] “Because everybody there was trying to get out,” that’s what she told me. So I had to think about “Well how would I even be able to go?” because I know shed do everything her power to stop it. As it turned out, Staughton Lynd was working on the curriculum for the Freedom schools and I, for a grade, did quite a bit of research and working with him on putting the curriculum together for the Freedom schools. And I said “Somehow I’m going,” and that for me meant I had to not let my grandmother particularly know. That I just had to sneak away at the end of the spring semester and go to Mississippi and I was going to drive to the orientation at Oxford, Ohio with Staughton Lynd and all of the books that we had printed up that were the curriculum and I was going to train to be a Freedom school director in one of the towns; whichever one I was going to be assigned to.

	M:	What do you remember about compiling the curriculums?



	S:	Well it was a continuation of all this wonderful stuff I had been learning that I knew nothing about in terms of Black history. And so a lot of it, and of course we’re talking almost sixty years ago now. I don’t remember the specifics and I don’t know if you’d been able to get any of those copies of those curriculum little booklets that were going to be used.

	M:	I heard a rumor that some of those papers are in the New York Public Library and I’m gonna try to go there this summer.

	S:	Okay well Staughton of course is still with us and I don’t know if they’d been able all these years to hold on to any of that material. This is before any







internet, any computers so we didn’t have a way. Either you had a hard copy or you had nothing. But I remember the boxes in the back of the car that he and I went to Ohio to the orientation session because they were going to be taken by the people who were gonna be the Freedom school teachers with them when they went to Mississippi. To get back to your question as to the content, I just remember there was significant amount of African-American history because that was going to be one of the main things to teach since none of these young people, unless they had gotten this at home, would know any of this because it just wasn’t taught in the schools. When I think back about the fact that we had school aged children from first grade through twelfth grade. So clearly we had to supplement that booklet with other things because I remember—and let me just back up to say that I was assigned to Laurel, Mississippi and I was going to be the Freedom school director in Laurel, Mississippi. As it turned out, the person who was assigned to be the project director, a man named Lester McKinney who was already a SNCC field secretary who had been to Mississippi, was to be the project director. When we got to Mississippi, we knew this before we left Oxford, that there was no infrastructure set up for us in Laurel. There were some places like Hattiesburg, Meridian, Greenwood. These were movement centers and so they were already set up and that’s what I thought I was going into. So here I get assigned with two other guys, one of whom was Lester McKinney. The other one, a man who had never been south in his life and also an African-American named Jimmy Garrett from California. So they said “Well at this point, we can only send the three of you to Laurel because you’re gonna







have to create a project there.” There’s nothing there so you’ll have to stay in Hattiesburg and then from Hattiesburg, you’ll drive the thirty miles north. They gave us the list of names of NAACP members and that’s all we had. So we literally were going trying to find these people, knocking on doors asking them “Would you let us come in a work with you to set up a project that will be a part of Mississippi Freedom Summer?” We were very fortunate because after a couple of days, one of the people whose home—I knocked on her door was a Mrs. Eberta Spinks and when she opened the door, and here I was like how do you ask somebody “Can I move into your house with you?” I mean because that’s what we were asking. Your house may get burned down as a result of this, you may lose your job if you have one so to me that was just so hard to ask somebody. So I was still trying to get a rap going. Some kind of a way to ask somebody and so she looked at me and I told her my name. I said “I’m Gwen Robinson and I’m a Civil Rights worker.” And she looked at me because I had on my overalls and my blue jean jacket. She said “Are you one of those Freedom Riders?” And I was like “Yes Ma’am.” I didn’t know if that was the right answer. She said “Girl, I’ve been waiting on you all my life.” And she was in her fifties and that was the beginning of the Laurel Project. She said “Come in.” And I went in, sat down she said “What do you need?” I said “First of all I need somewhere to stay,” because we’re staying in Hattiesburg. She said “You can stay with me.” I said “Well there are two guys with me.” They’re across the street knocking on some doors of there and she said “Oh my neighbor, she has a bigger house. She’ll put them up.” I said “Really?” She said “I’m gonna call her







right now.” And she called her, Mrs. Carrie Clayton and she said “There’s a Freedom Rider here and she’s got two Freedom Rider guys with her. I’m gonna take her, can you take them?” And she said “Yes.” And she said “Y’all go back and get your stuff and come right back.” And that’s exactly what we did. We went back and got out little suitcases and things and the boxes of books and things that we brought and we moved into these two houses that were across the street from one another. So then the question is “Where can we set up a Freedom School?” We didn’t have people committed there and maybe after we’d been there three days, Lester McKinney disappeared. Well, this was devastating because already before we even got there, the three Mississippi martyrs had already disappeared. So Schwerner, Goodman and Chaney, everybody was looking for them and then Lester disappears. So we just think “Oh my God, he’s gone.” So at that point you call Jackson, you call Atlanta; everybody call the FBI, call the Justice Department. There was a whole system that had been put in place to try and figure out “Can we save the next one that disappears before they kill them?” So at that point Jim Forman, who was the Executive Secretary of SNCC said to me “You’ll have to become Project Director. There’s only two of us.” I said “No way, I came down here to be a Freedom School teacher and that’s what I’ve trained—I know nothing about being a project director.” He said “Well, you’ve been to jail, you’re from the South and we don’t have anybody else.” So that’s it. Thank goodness it was discovered that Lester was in the county lockup. He had not been…thank God. We don’t know what they were planning but by the time the FBI and the Justice







Department and everybody got on it, they said “Well we’ve got an outstanding warrant for him and he’s either got to leave the county and he’s got to swear that he won’t come back for five years or we’re sending him to Parchman Prison.” So he had to leave the state and that left a person from L.A and me, we were it. But as it turned out, Mrs. Spinks and Mrs. Clayton said “Well is it just the two of you?” We said “Well there are more that could come if we had places to put them up.” And to make the long story short, we wound up with twenty three volunteers in Laurel, Mississippi that summer. Mrs. Spinks and Clayton almost single-handedly got housing. Got a church to open its doors for us to set up. People were terrified of letting a Freedom School…because you know that church could be bombed. They were scared and of course once she got on the stick, all her lady friends from church, the mothers of the churches, that woman I want her name to become one of the names who made a movement possible in their city. So we had a Freedom School and we had to assign another woman to become the Director of that. She was one of the volunteers who had also trained. Her name is Suzie Clippinger. That was her name. I understand she has a different name but I’m sure I can find it for you. She was from Massachusetts and still lives there I’ve learned of late. We’ve been in touch by email. So she became the person who was the director of our Freedom School there but I just said “I have to at least teach a class.” I can’t give that up because that was where my heart was. And so I did teach a class that summer with high school students and then of course because I stayed for eighteen months so after the summer was over, two women and myself stayed for







eighteen months total. The other two women were from California. Both of them White Americans; Lanell Barrett from L.A and Marion Davidson who was from Pasadena. So we were able to run a sort of a skeletal kind of Saturday classes that we kept going for a while and then that summer of [19]65, some of the people who had worked with us came back and we were able to do a Freedom School. Never on the scale that we had initially done it but we did have sort of a skeletal one that summer of [19]65 also.

	M:	Who were the students at the Freedom School? I mean in 1964 when you first opened, who were those students?

	S:	Those were kids who came. Their parents sometimes didn’t even know they were there because the word was out that “These people have a Freedom School,” and “What’s a Freedom School?” Initially we had to run the Freedom School out of our office before they were able to get a church to open its doors to us. And so, they were just curious because there were twenty-three of us there and the majority of them were White so in the Black community, living moving around, we were a curiosity. The kids came “What’s going on here?” We set up a library in the office. Let me just say, the office that became our office and school for a while had been a dance hall that was boarded up, hadn’t been used for years, owned by an African-American man and pretty much the community twisted his arm to make him rent this old place that all the windows were boarded up…the community came out and totally renovated this place. On the weekends they were there sanding the floors as the dust was I don’t know how thick. It turned out to be one of the best things that could have happened







because of how it galvanized many of the men. Because we had the women on our side but you know, for some of the guys to come out and help to renovate this building and all that and then the Klan bombed the building. They fire- bombed the building and the Fire Department came and just stood there and watched it burn. So we lost all the books and all the mass supplies and everything. This man was complaining because he said “I knew this was going to happen. I knew it!” I don’t even remember what the COFO people had to do to sort of get him off our backs because he was not really a supporter. He charged exorbitantly for a place that was totally unlivable. Everybody had made it what it was and then he was trying to take an exact exorbitant—and he did.

He wanted him to be reimbursed by the Movement. I know it was turned over to the lawyers and I don’t really know what happened with that.

	M:	But it continued? You continued the Freedom Schools?



	S:	Yes because by then we were able to move into a church with the Freedom School. In Laurel there was a housing project and there was a community room. It wasn’t like a real center but there was like a couple of big rooms that the children could use to play in and all. So we had a second site that we operated out of there. So we actually had two for a while. You know the other thing that often doesn’t—I think get talked about nearly as much is that COFO organized for singers to come. You may know about this. You know folk singers? There also was Freedom Theater which came and put on free theater productions and in the case of Laurel, we did them outdoors because none of the churches would let us bring this “sinful stuff” into their churches but the people came out







in droves in a big vacant lot. So, this was all a part of the Freedom School. You know music, Richie Havens came to Laurel and toured a lot of Mississippi. Pete Zeiger…it was an incredible summer of activity. People had never ever seen a play and these were professional actors and actresses. So we knew what the play was gonna be so we could use that in the school to get the students ready so they can read for the older ones; actually read the play, draw things related to the play and then after the play to draw things. So it was such a wonderful experience and then many of the older people wanted us to teach them to read and write. Here you are saying “Register to Vote,” and of course the COFO Project knew that we weren’t gonna be able to register large numbers of people. So you probably know we had the mock voter registration projects and so these were in barber shops and beauty shops and our offices in peoples’ homes. And so we had our own registration form and people would register and we would save those registrations which then became the primary documentation that we used when you challenge the Mississippi regular Democrats in 1964 in Atlantic City. So we brought thousands because thousands of people had registered in the mock voter registration campaign. So as a result of that, many people said “I can’t read or write.” So we also started teaching literacy as a part of the Freedom School so to speak even though it wasn’t the “Freedom School,” but organizing the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party, that was political education. In my classes I try to get the students to imagine that you got people who have never registered to vote.

Never ever been involved in any kind of political party activities and then you







get all these people excited and so you got to teach “What is a party?” “What is the Democratic Party?” “How does the United States government work?” The houses…so this also becomes a part of the education and they took to it like fish to water. That was what just blew me away. That we, in such a sort amount of time, were able to organize a real party there in Jones County. Laurel is in Jones County and so we extended it beyond the city limits. So we had a group of people who became very educated as to how politics worked. We took a busload of people from Laurel to Jackson, Mississippi for the State Conference and two of the people from Jones County were a part of the delegation that went to Atlantic City. This is what makes me know what can happen because I saw it. You go from zero to a hundred miles an hour literally. The thing is, the people were so enthusiastic and excited about it. It changed my life to have been involved in that.

	M:	How do you explain to your students today about this connection between voting and literacy?

	S:	Well that’s a good point. Often it’s very hard to get young people today to even imagine what you’re talking about and this is why I rely so heavily on film. We look at “Eyes on the Prize,” we look at Freedom Summer, we look at Selma because there’s just no way for these young people to imagine. And I think even seeing the films and hearing me talk about my personal experience helps a bit but they say things to me like “But that’s crazy. That’s crazy.” I say “No, no it wasn’t crazy.” If you say “The Klan burned the office.” They say “That’s crazy!” I said “No, no that’s terror.” Terror with a political purpose. They weren’t crazy.







They knew what they were doing. It had a purpose and this is why when I teach the Civil Rights Movement, we start with slavery because they don’t even have a sense of “Well why did you need a Civil Rights Movement?” Because that to them doesn’t make sense either because they haven’t learned anything from their own K through 12. So then we have to start quickly and I do it with film. So we do slavery, we do reconstruction and we do the post-reconstruction and the beginning of the Jim Crow era. Most of them don’t even know that word: Jim Crow. Almost not a student had ever heard of SNCC before taking a class.

They said “Well what is SNCC?” So it’s like Julian Bond said “They know Rosa Parks, they know Martin Luther King, they know Malcom X. That’s about it.” And of course some of the students have taken in—they changed their lives to learn about this. It’s so important for this information to be taught to our students K through 12. Not to mention college and above because if you don’t have any sense of how we got where we are, then you have no idea what it takes to bring about change. I teach a class “Martin and Malcom” and one of the things is Martin King did not do this by himself. So it’s not one man who you can’t even imagine being like creating a Civil Rights Movement. He didn’t. It was the people and this is a constant refrain. It was the local people that made the movement and that’s hard because there isn’t a sense that “I can change things,” and that’s the message that I want. I was nineteen when I went to Mississippi. I was younger than you are in this classroom now and there were a lot of us who were nineteen and twenty and twenty-one. Almost a thousand who







went down there and we turned Mississippi around. So you can do it too. That’s my message.

	M:	That’s beautiful and very much needed. I would wish that every high school student in the United States would learn about a grassroots or bottom-up perspective of the Civil Rights Movement--

	S:	Exactly.



	M:	And know about SNCC and COFO. So on this topic of the unsung heroes and heroines, would you say a little bit more about Mrs. Spinks?

	S:	Yes oh my God! Mrs. Spinks was, probably when we landed on her door, maybe about fifty-two or so years of age. She had grown children who no longer lived in Mississippi and she had one teenage son who lived in the home and she had a husband. He worked at the Mennonite plant which was a unionized facility. This was one of the reasons they could be as bold as they were because he was not gonna be fighting. He was a union man and he was proud of it but he was still a little afraid. Not to be fired but the house being bombed and she definitely was the force there. I don’t think he would have— because not only did she take me in, but these other two women that I’ve mentioned Lanell Barrett and Marion Davidson lived there for the full eighteen months and then at other times other people were sleeping on couches or whatever. People came in and we didn’t have a house for them to go to. She was deeply religious; a very active and forceful member of her church and her thing was “This is our church. The Minister doesn’t tell us what to do.” Because he was “No, no don’t bring that stuff in here.” “Oh yes,” she said, “We are







bringing this stuff in here. This is for us. This is our freedom.” And I have a wonderful, that a person just sent me, a link to an interview of her done so you hear her voice and everything. I just cried and cried but she was interviewed by the Oral History Project at the University of Southern Mississippi. So the link is to their oral history documentation of Civil Rights Leaders from around the state. Particularly Southern Mississippi. She talks about stuff that happened after I left which I didn’t know about. It was very hard leaving her but now that we sort of talk about this stuff openly, she literally many night especially if we had all these telephone threatening calls, which often happened, she would sit with a shotgun across her lap with the lights out and her thing to us was “Y’all can sleep. I’m keeping watch all night.” And she didn’t work outside the home so she said “I nap during the day but I’m awake at night because anybody try to come up in here, they gonna get some fire power.” So she was a tough lady. She really was. She was sweet and kind. You know I was saying, I can’t remember us giving her any rent for eighteen months. Now we chipped in with the food of coursed. The volunteers weren’t getting any money and I became SNCC staff so I was getting the ten dollars a week before Uncle Sam took out the taxes. So I forgot it was nine dollars and some change that the SNCC Field Secretaries got. So we did chip in on food but, we never paid—can you imagine? Three people living in her house for eighteen months? That’s how it was down there and in Arkansas, Alabama everywhere. We lived with the people. She was an organizer. She was the one that organized to get the housing and once we had things to give to people, because people would send us clothes and books and







you name it, she often was the person who helped to organize for the distribution because we knew she knew who needed stuff better than we did. She was the backbone of the Laurel, Mississippi Movement. Iberta Spinks and I got to see her on the twenty-fifth anniversary because when we did the Mississippi Freedom Summer twenty-fifth, they wanted everybody to go back to their towns. So we spent the first couple of days in Jackson and then we all spread out. There were several of us who had been in law and she knew we were coming and she organized a reception in her home twenty-five years after the fact. It was so amazing because the mayor was there. I mean, I never even knew who—maybe I knew then but…the Mayor, City Council people…they all came to meet the Civil Rights Workers who had lived with Mrs. Spinks. I cried the whole time. I mean I’m a big cry baby. My daughter did a video of it and I have to ask her what happened to the video because when she showed it to me, all I could see was the mascara running down my cheeks because I cried the whole time just seeing her and seeing the changes that had happened there. The mayor, who was White, there were Black City Council people in a place where you couldn’t register to vote. It was really an amazing thing. Now I just went back during the fiftieth anniversary and of course she had passed and the house—I took pictures. It’s still there. At least it was…what two years ago? Boarded up, nobody living in it. Now, the house that Mrs. Carrie Clayton was in is still very well preserved and I understand that when she passed away, her children sold it but it was still there and looking very much like it looked but well- kept. I think I got off the point that you wanted but-







	M:	No, it’s beautiful. I just think how…just how important it is to know a story of local leaders.

	S:	Yeah the local leaders and of course going with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Project and I’ve had the great fortune of being with them twice and I had never been to Natchez, Mississippi or Vicksburg. So these were the two places that I got to go with them this summer and meeting those people and hearing those stories. Now of course earlier I had gone with them to Greenwood. I knew a lot of those people and I also got to go to Macomb. Never had been there before until I went with Paul Ortiz and Samuel Proctor Oral History Project. And of course I knew all the names of all those people from Macomb because that was such an important place. People don’t know the story. They don’t know how to movement happened and in my mind, this is purposefully done. It’s just like, I find students have no idea about Labor Unions. They know nothing and this is on purpose. I say “How do you think the forty hour week or the thirty-five hour week or children can’t work? Nobody gave anybody this. People fought for this but if you don’t know this, then you don’t think you can change anything. This is purposefully done in my opinion you know?

	M:	Absolutely. And the testament to the power of movements…there’s so many ways—going back twenty-five years later and the mayor greeting you?

	S:	Greeting us in her home! I couldn’t believe it. M:	It’s a testament to the work that you all did.

	S:	Right, yes.it had changed things. M:	Turned things around.







	S:	And I would love to end on a happy note but I went back…when were we there?



We just had the fiftieth anniversary. When would that have been?



	M:	2014.



	S:	Yes. So 2014 I went back to Laurel and I was beginning to tell you her house was boarded up. I did get to meet with some of the women who had been in the freedom school because her daughter now teaches at the University of Southern Mississippi. That person, whose name I can get for you, but she actually drove her car and I followed her to Laurel to her grandmother’s house and her grandmother had put up freedom workers in. so I spent a whole day with her grandmother and her mother who had been in the freedom school.

Now she teaches at the University of Southern Mississippi in Hattiesburg and comes up every weekend to see her folks. So that was wonderful and they took me all around. They said “yeah economically we’re not doing any better.” They said “So we can’t keep our children here; our grandchildren because they’re no jobs.” Because the Mennonite factory which had hired—and that was a good paying job. It’s been gone for a long time they said and then there’s a big chicken industry there and a lot of Latinos are there. There was feelings of hostility but they don’t want to work in those factories but they also didn’t seem to want the people there who do work in the factories. And they sorta of said “Those are the only jobs that are here,” and nobody wants to do that work. So it was kind of a downer to hear that and at this point the mayor is African- American and all seven members of the city council are African-American in law. Yet there was a feeling of depression because of the lack of economic







development. So that’s something the Civil Rights Movement wasn’t able to change. We didn’t get to it. When you think of Dr. King’s last hoorah was the poor people’s campaign. It was moving into the whole economics issue and we never really got that off the ground after he was assassinated.

	M:	Well Reverend Barber is trying to pick that up.



	S:	Oh yes and I love him so yes! The New Poor Peoples Campaign.



	M:	But the economic justice question and then the connection between economic justice and racial justice.

	S:	Yes, right exactly. M:	It’s so huge.

	S:	It is. But now Hattiesburg is, whoo! That’s quite a different city from what I remember from a positive. It’s really a bustling place and I have no idea what the difference is why that’s the case. Maybe other industries have gone In there. I just don’t know. But it was very lively in there compared to Laurel which was quite depressed; economically depressed.

	M:	You had mentioned a couple times about books. And bringing in books. Could you talk about that a little more? Were you all building a library per se? Did you call it a library? Was it part of the--?

S:   Oh yeah we definitely called it a library. One of the things you know and I don’t know if…as a part of the project people were asked in the North to send books but we had a fabulous library that was burned when the fire-bombed the office and let it burn to the ground but yes books and we loaned them. We had set up a lending library system and so, just like where I grew up in Memphis I couldn’t







go to the public library the whole time I grew up in Memphis. And so likewise in Mississippi, if there was a public library it was closed to Black people. So this was a first for these young people or anybody. We let anybody…we set up the cards. We had a person working on just lending and following up to ask them to bring the book back if they forgot but this was so exciting for people to borrow a book and take it home and read it and bring it back. I mean it was wonderful things like that to witness for the first time. The first time borrowing a book. The first time seeing a play and seeing a star perform. These were wonderful things that the project brought to Mississippi that summer and beyond. Yeah but yes, we called it a “library” and we were devastated to have lost all those books when they burned our building.

	M:	Well the struggle continues.



	S:	Yes it does and now, I just have no idea if we’re promoting for our children to go to the library. Here these kids were tearing the door down to get in but now that everybody can go, I just don’t know how much that’s happening. There’s a tremendous education gap; racial gap and I’m very involved here locally working on that issue. We have a terrible situation here.

	M:	Could you talk about that a little more? Maybe the problem and also the solutions like what you all are asking for or working toward?

	S:	Yes well, thank goodness there had been a group of us who had pretty much exposed—even I was shocked at how the school board had pretty much kept hidden the racial disparities in reading levels, math levels, even graduation levels. [Cut in audio]







	M:	They saw us in a little corner and— S:	Yes I should have put a sign up.

	M:	It’s okay.



	S:	Okay. I could have put a sign up taping inside “Please don’t lock” because nobody needs to come in here today. Okay. So, a group that sorta loosely calls itself “The Education Task Force,” and I certainly was not the person in the forefront of this but a professor at the University of Florida’s School of Education, she was the person who was unable to, I believe the term is “disaggregate” the stats so that we could really see what was going on and she was able to get the newspaper here. The Gainesville Sun, she did three major articles that had graphs and everybody was in a state of shock. They had been able to keep that hidden. So of course then the group expanded and a lot of us got on board to start going to the school board meetings and demanding “We wanna know how you’re going to fix this,” so, as a result of pressure from us in the community, they’ve hired an equity officer and full time to work on this.

She’s been meeting with us. We’re still having a number of problems because we don’t care for the plan and yet the school board basically is overriding what the community wants to we’re locked into a battle. The other thing that I’m much in the forefront of is something called the Alachua County—that’s our county here, the Alachua County Black History Task Force. I am one of the founding members of that group and we have for the last—we’re going into our fifth year, pushing for teaching African-American history K through twelve. It’s been like, to use an expression from my grandmother, it’s “Like pulling hen’s teeth.” Now we







know hens don’t have any teeth so. [Laughter] That was one of her sayings. She said “This is as hard as pulling hen’s teeth.” So that’s exactly what we’re experiencing. So now, they finally put again pressure, pressure, somebody to work with us full-time on getting African-American history K through twelve. We have been involved in selecting textbooks but yeah it’s a total pressure thing that you can’t let up on. It’s quite amazing and in this state, in 1944, a law was passed in the state legislature mandating this but with no enforcement. So, people just ignore it and I’m also on the State Black History task force which is overseeing the whole state around this issue and the State Task Force looks at everybody’s curriculum and everything and says who is meeting the standards that have been set and in this whole state, we have six counties that are meeting the standards for teaching K through twelve African-American history in this whole big state and Alachua County is not one of them. Right here yeah.

So this is a struggle across the country you know? It’s massive and you know the teachers say “Well, we don’t know it, so we can’t teach it.” And the other thing is, it’s not on the test that everybody has to take. So, we can’t take our time teaching them something that they’re not gonna be tested on. We have to teach to the test and so this is a big problem across out state and I imagine in other places also.

	M:	It’s the whole high-stake testing problem and teachers have less. The educators who would want to integrate a Black history curriculum, if they’re having to teach to the test all the time—







	S:	We keep saying “Put it on the test!” Why would you have a law on the books that mandates it and yet your test has nothing about it. So it’s clear that there’s no real plan and some of us were very involved with the Andrew Gillum campaign and he had made a commitment to us that this was gonna be high on his agenda and for the person that he would appoint as the State Superintendent. Now of course, we didn’t win.

	M:	So close. I campaigned on that a little bit. I canvassed for Gillum. S:	Did you? Where were you?

	M:	In Miami-Dade County.



	S:	In Miami Dade okay! So you know the struggle on so many fronts. The struggle continues.

	M:	When you were talking about the racial disparities with students in the schools, are the schools largely segregated still or are the schools larger—like say in Alachua County, are the schools mostly segregated?

	S:	Yes they are and what we have here and maybe in other places too, we have magnet schools within schools. So you have a magnet program that is majority White and Asian sitting in the middle of a majority Black school with totally different teachers, totally different curriculum, totally different amounts of money that they have at their disposal to take them on trips and all this and right here we have that. So Eastside High School is one such school. Gainesville High School is another one of the high schools that have them. But when you start talking about the elementary schools, they’re highly segregated. Almost all- Black schools on the East side of town and all mainly all-White schools with







Asians who are doing very well in the schools. And so the Black children are at the bottom for every indicator. Every last one. We have been able to at least bring some changes. For instance, you get in trouble in the school. You would be sent home for ten days. Ten days home. Not to some place where somebody’s helping you do some homework or do something and you get three of those, four of those…how are you going to pass? There’s no way. So you fail and you fail again. Then you get sent to some other kind of school and you may be there for several years and you never graduate. That’s what was happening to significant numbers of Black children. The other thing is the police in the schools. You know until I got involved with this I had no idea and that money paying those police officers comes out of the education budget. So you have no nurses, you have no social workers but you have police with guns on their hips. Frightening in many cases these young people. I said “When did this happen?” What happened to the Principal being the disciplinarian? The police officer who has no training in sociology, psychology or the homes that they’re coming out of and the problems… and so they go to jail so we have the school to prison pipeline big time here. Because you call in the police, the police takes them to jail and that starts the cycle that often they never get out of. So we have obviously, like almost everywhere else, tremendous incarceration rate of Black young people. So the situation is dire. There was a report put out here two or three years ago and I can get you a copy of that, that laid out and I think the school thing was the impetus for them then beginning to look at the racial disparities in all the other areas. So health, criminal justice, even transportation,







you know jobs and income the disparities are tremendous here across all of the indicators and Black people are vat the bottom. You know, I didn’t know and I haven’t been able to get much information but one of our County Commissioners, Robert Hutchinson has started something called “The Truth and Reconciliation Process” here. To try and get beyond the data of where things are now and say “How did they get this way?” Because I’ve just begun to learn that after reconstruction, first of all there were many more African- Americans in this county than there were White people. Totally changed now and they owned lots of land that they were able to get their hands on working and doing all the things that they had to do. They owned more land, Black people did, in the 1900s than they own now. In areas of the city that none of used to be all-Black. If we get a chance I’d love to drive you around something called Butler Plaza. There’s Butler Plaza North and then the original. That used to be Black farmland. I just learned this last year. I’m like “What?” And people say they were forced off the land or if they died, the children unfortunately didn’t pay taxes. They lost it that way. Eminent domain because right now there’s been a struggle with Black land owners out in an area off of Archer road over…what that Celebration Pointe is, is a new development and these people have been fighting not to lose their land to Celebration Pointe. This was shocking to me. I had no idea Black people owned land out there. I was like “What?” So this is what the Truth and Reconciliation…because I went to the meeting which was held at one of our prominent Black churches when the Equity report was issued. I know I was practically in tears and it was a standing







room only, very integrated community of people there from all walks of life. And you could just see all of the African-Americans just sort of—and so I think to his credit, he said “You know it’s important for us to say why this is happening to people don’t think ‘There’s just something wrong with us. Why can’t we get our stuff together? Why are we in this shape?’” If you don’t know that you’re not in this shape based on what individuals didn’t do, this was concerted effort to get you off your land and other things. I signed up but nobody’s contacted me to be a part of the Truth and Reconciliation group.

	M:	I mean I’d love to know more about that too. We needs that as a whole nation.



Our nation needs a Truth and Reconciliation Commission.



	S:	Yes we do all over. Yeah. For our people to have some understanding and Hutchinson, he says “White people used to know this because they think that there’s something wrong with Black people.” “Well, why can’t they get themselves together?” “Pull yourself up by your bootstraps!” [Laughter] Well, I don’t have any boots for one right! So anyway.

	M:	What did you say with the Black landowners are in an imminent domain struggle. Is it called Celebration?

	S:	Yeah this is a brand new huge development with theater, restaurants. It’s partially open now. So I don’t know if they must have lost but I wish there was the professor who knows so much about this and boy, I never even thought that we would be going in this direction but her name is Patricia Hilliard Nunn and she has done a film because she’s a filmmaker in addition to being a professor of African-American studies. But she’s out on leave. She’s been quite ill but she







knows so much and she has been working on this for ten to fifteen years and she has done two African-American, in Alachua County, tours and I went on both of those. And this is when I learned about this land and because you know, every now and then I’d be in a neighborhood if I was driving through on Sunday, and it was a White neighborhood. Here’s this little church and here are all those Black people going in and out. And I was like “Well what is this church doing here?” And of course she took us around and was “This was a Black neighborhood.” And the little church is still there as testimony to what was—and even in Butler Plaza there’s a Black church there that’s still operating. There’s a Black cemetery. So it’s proof because is no way a White community would’ve let Black people build a church and a cemetery in their neighborhood. So all the Black people are gone. All that’s left is the cemetery and the church. There are at least four or five such areas like that that are now majority White areas and they have been since I’ve lived here and I’ve been here twenty years. So we’re not talking about recent gentrification. We got that happening here too now. The UF is taking land from Black people who live in the downtown so they’re fighting against this university and—[Phone rings]

[End of Interview]









Transcribed by:

Sandra Romero

May 29, 2019

Audit-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

May 30, 2019

Final Edit by:

Charity Kelly

May 14, 2020