AAHP 004A; Chandler; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu









AAHP 004A Isaac Chandler Jr.

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Marna Weston on December 31, 2009 49 minutes | 21 pages



Abstract: Mr. Isaac Chandler begins with a discussion on Mr. Chandler’s time of service in WWII. Upon returning from the war, Mr. Chandler became an extension agent in a 4H program in Florida. Mr. Chandler discusses segregation in Jasper focusing mostly on how it affected his career and neighborhood. He discusses historical figures such as Emmett Till, Rosa Parks, Jackie Robinson, Joe Louis and how their movements affected him and the Black people in his community. There is conversation of sit-ins that took place in Tallahassee, striving for equal pay during his time of work with the Farmer’s Administration, and the assassination of President Kennedy. The interview concludes with a brief discussion on Mr. Chandler’s role in the SER Club (Society, Economics, and Resources) for African American extension agents.



Keywords: [African American History; Hamilton County, Florida; Agricultural Extension]









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 004A

Interviewee: Isaac Chandler Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date of Interview: December 31, 2009



	W:	This is Marna Weston on December 31, 2009, in the home of Mr. Isaac Chandler in Jasper, Florida, for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Mr. Chandler, thank you for talking to me today.

	C:	Yes, sir.



	W:	First, could you state your full name from birth? C:	My full name is Isaac Chandler Jr.

	W:	And when and where were you born?



	C:	I was born in Gadsden County about five miles north of Atlanta. I was born on October 9, 1922.

	W:	And who were your parents?



	C:	Okay my parents were Isaac Chandler Sr. and Lilly McGriff—Chandler. W:	And were they both also from Gadsden County?

	C:	Yeah. My dad was born in Leon County. He was born in Leon County but more or less raised in Gadsden County.

	W:	And who were your parent’s parents?



	C:	Okay now I remember my mother’s parents. Her daddy was Ben McGriff and her mother was Emma Manor, M-A-N-O-R, McGriff. And my dad’s daddy was Harbor Chandler Jr. and his mother was Laura Chandler. Now I understand his mother’s maiden name was Hinson, H-I-N-S-O-N. I barely remember my paternal grandmother. I think they said I was about four years old when she died but I do remember her, just barely. But now my paternal granddad, I don’t remember him because he was dead many years before my parents married.





	W:	Did you say her name was Justice Bailey? C:	Huh?

	W:	I missed what you said your maternal grandmother’s name was. I didn’t quite catch it.

	C:	It was Laura Hinson, H-I-N-S-O-N.



	W:	Oh that’s your maternal grandmother? C:	Paternal.

	W:	Paternal okay. And were they all from Gadsden and Leon County? That area? C:	That’s what I know, yes. Now I know more about my maternal grandparents than

I do my paternal because I lived with my maternal grandparents—well, my granddad until I went in the Service. But the whole family had moved in with him after my grandmother died. Then the rest of the family moved in with him, you know my mother wanted to be there so she could see after him and take care of him.

	W:	When did your grandmother die? C:	In 1935.

	W:	And what year did you enter the service? C:	1942.

	W:	Okay were you drafted? Did you volunteer—? C:	Yeah I was drafted.

	W:	Okay. [Laughter] You don’t sound happy about that. How did that happen?



	C:	Well, you know the draft was going on and I think when I registered all the males from eighteen to forty-five had to register and I got caught up in that. And one





day—a man ran a dry goods store there, and I believe he must have been on the draft board because he said, “You not in the Army?” And at the time I hadn’t even registered. That was in the summer of 1942. He said, “I’ll tell you what; if you are not in the Army by Christmas of this year, then you can come in this store and pick out any soups you want.” So I say he was on the draft board because in November of 1942, I got a letter saying, “Greetings—”

	W:	[Laughter] It doesn’t sound good already. C:	And I was sworn in November 21, 1942. W:	And where did you go? What did you see?

	C:	I went to Keyslefield, Mississippi. The Army and Air force was all one at that time. I was in the Army-Air force. I started my basic training in Keysla. I was there for about six weeks and then they sent a group of us to Cheyenne, Wyoming to a training school. I’m trying to think of the place now—it’s Cheyenne—but I’m trying to think of the name of the base. I was at the Fort Frances E1 quartermaster training facility. But it’s an air base now. I can’t think of the name of the air base but that’s where it was. So when we got there we had a choice, you could either take auto mechanic truck driver or cook. So I chose cooking and they gave us all private first class rating and when we finished the training we were supposed to go to a company. So I left Fort Frances E1 and went to Hatfield, California that was near Fresno. For about six or eight weeks I didn’t do anything. You had to take close-order drill, exercise, and then I got sent to March Field, California near Riverside. I got into an outfit there.

	W:	What was your unit?





	C:	Well the first one was the 856 Aviation Engineer I worked the outfit, that’s what it was. We used to say we were the slaves for the air force. But that’s what it was. And that outfit got railroaded. They were fixing to send us overseas and a lot of us didn’t get the chance to go home, you know, on furlough. I had a furlough and they cancelled it. But, you know, I guess the [inaudible 8:23] I got sick and I couldn’t make the trip overseas. And that saved me so after then I got into another outfit the 1887 Aviation Engineer, and I did get a leave the same year which is 1943 now. I got a furlough to come home in December of 1943, but I knew that was it as far as coming home.

	W:	No more furloughs.



	C:	No more furloughs. And then when I got back to the camp they were packing up our equipment and everything getting ready to go overseas. We were supposed to go to Europe; they had given us clothes and everything for Europe. Okay we were in California. We came from California to Virginia, and that’s where we were supposed to ship out. It’s close to the Newport News is what it was. And they changed orders and they sent us to Greenville, South Carolina. I think we were there about three or four weeks getting finished tracking up the stuff, you see. All that stuff was gone; our clothes and everything. We had to get new uniforms and everything. But they had given us winter clothes. So then we got on the troop train coming back to the west coast. This time we came into Seattle Washington and from there it was May 14, 1944. That was Mother’s Day; that’s the day we shipped out from there. Ford Loudoun, Washington is where we were. Fort Loudoun right out of Seattle and we went to Honolulu, Hawaii. We were there





from May until August. In August we boarded a ship going down below the equator and the international dateline and all that stuff. So for forty-five days I was out there on that water. Used to pack the sun come up out of the water and went down in the water.

	W:	You mean on a boat? So you were in the Army air force but they had you just riding around in the ocean on a boat for forty-five days?

	C:	You see the Army-Air force didn’t take the troops over there like they do now.



They didn’t fly them over there. I was on a boat. What they would do then is, you see, they had what they call flat-tops.

	W:	Yes, sir.



	C:	Those ships where the planes would be on the deck but the men would still be down in the ship.

	W:	What were you doing? What were your duties when they had you on the boat riding around?

	C:	Well, as I said, I was a cook.



	W:	[Laughter] Okay you were cooking.



	C:	Yeah they had me cooking all over the Navy. The Navy was in charge of everything when they had me cooking. The 58th Task Force is what it was. See all kinds of stuff was out there. You had battleships, destroyers, the whole Navy. But I was on an LST which was a sitting duck if you were out there by yourself. LST was Land and Ship for Troops I think it what it was. And we went and invaded an island, Angaur. Now don’t ask me to spell it. I think it’s A-N- something.





	W:	Angaur.



	C:	Angaur. There was a group of—Angaur, Yua, Peleliu-



	W:	Peleliu I am very familiar with. There was a big battle at Peleliu. C:	Yeah and Trook.

	W:	Okay.



	C:	There were five and one of them is missing. Anguar, Yua, Trook, Peleliu, and Balthrop. Did I say Balthrop?

	W:	No, sir you didn’t.



	C:	Balthrop. Those were the islands. When we invaded Anguar—because it was the smallest—they said was the smallest island and that’s the one we would invade. And I believe it was in August of 1944. And sometime in 1945—I don’t remember February or—we went to Guam. And I was going to Guam when President Roosevelt died.

	W:	What was that like that day?



	C:	Well you know we were still in the Army. The flags were flying half-staff and all that and they told us what had happened. But that didn’t make much difference as far as we were concerned. There wasn’t no part in us on that like that you know.

	W:	Okay.



	C:	And we were getting ready but I don’t know where we were going. But we were getting ready to go further down. Somebody said it was somewhere close to China was somewhere we were going. But we didn’t go because when they dropped the atomic bomb the war ended.





	W:	Now where were you when you heard about the atomic bomb? C:	I was on Guam.

	W:	Okay.



	C:	And that’s where the bomb was—I didn’t know it at the time but that’s where— what is it the Enola Gay?

	W:	Yes, sir.



	C:	The plane? That’s where it was stationed. W:	Okay.

	C:	But, you know, I didn’t know it was on Guam until I got home. It was sitting right there on Guam.

	W:	Loose lips sink ships. C:	Yeah that’s right.

	W:	Now you came home and I was fascinated to read about your role in the 4H program and you saying that an extension agent builds a 4H program that helps the community thrive. We talked about that a little bit but it says that in 1952 racial tensions ran high and many changes were taking place within 4H. I want to ask you about the racial tensions part for a second. What was Florida like in 1952—there were racial tensions; that would be the first part. The second, did it have anything to do with Harry Moore and what happened with him do you think? Did you talk about that?

	C:	Well, you know, I guess you know as much about Harry Moore as I do because I only know what I read. I have been to Mayhem and I used to have a friend that was—well I had several friends in Duval County. But I never knew Harry Moore;





only from what I read in the paper. And I was reading something about him in [17:17 inaudible] the other day. And they think that the Sheriff in Lake County—

	W:	Sheriff McCall.



	C:	They said that he had something to do with it. But there were a lot of other things going on too. Everything was segregated. The 4H program and the extension program and all that were segregated. And if you want to know the truth, I didn’t think I would ever live long enough to see integration. I had a man he had a red neck—Stone Red Neck—that told me, he said—you see I’ll tell you what was happening. At the time I was renting a building from him for me for an office and then they decided they were going to build me an office. I wasn’t going to say nothing to him because I was getting a new office. “That’s just a waste of money,” he said, “and in a year or two everything is going to be integrated anyhow.” And I told him, I said, “well it might be.” I said, “But you and I will not live to see this kind of integrating.” And I don’t know what he’s doing now because he killed himself when it started happening.

	W:	Really?



	C:	Yeah.



	W:	Wow. Do you remember his name? C:	Malador Tudin.

	W:	And he was from here in Jasper?



	C:	He ran a grocery store there and the building that they were renting—I’ll tell you what he did. When they paved the street, this street, all this was a dead road when I came here.





	W:	Are you talking about Southwest twelfth or are you talking about Martin Luther King?

	C:	Yeah all this was dead; Martin Luther King was dead. W:	Okay.

	C:	The pavement cut off—I don’t remember the number of those streets all the way down there but when you get down there to where those buildings when you come in down there—there is a building on the left and on the right there?

	W:	Yes, sir.



	C:	That’s about as far as that street was paved. When you come from town-



	W:	Is that because none of the streets were paved or because that was essentially where mostly Black people live?

	C:	No, well in the Black community. W:	Okay.

	C:	But what I was starting to tell you is when they did pave it and put a sewer line down, they were requiring everybody to put a toilet in. And before he put a toilet in that building for me—and the county went along with it, see that’s the next thing. The county went right along of course because the county moved it. He has some lots down here in the Black neighborhood. And when someone didn’t have houses [inaudible 20:55] and all of that, and there wasn’t any facilities in it and where I was there wasn’t any facilities. When I had to go to the bathroom I had to go—well the school was about two or three blocks from there. And I would either come back up here to some of these restaurants well there were two or three African American restaurants going on at that time.





	W:	Was this just to be spiteful, or to save money—



	C:	I didn’t know. He just didn’t want to put that bathroom in. And to me it looked like it would have been cheaper to put the bathroom in than it would have to move the building.

	W:	Just out of principle he didn’t want to—



	C:	He didn’t want to. But you see, when they built the building, they had to put one in. But it was required then. And the school board gave them an acre of land for a dollar, you know, to put me an office on. And that’s the way it was and then just like he said, two or three years after that it integrated. So that building was just sitting there. And then they moved me up to the post—that’s where the extension office was at that time, at the post office.

	W:	Mhmm. Did integration work well for Black people or did segregation might that have been better? Have you thought about how you feel about the changes?

	C:	Well do you still have your machine on? W:	Yes, sir. Do you want me to turn it off? C:	Yeah.

[Break in recording]



	W:	I want to ask you about Emmet Till. Do you recall when they talked about Emmet Till being killed and what was that like for you when that happened?

	C:	It was disturbing but you know I grew up in that time. Because my parents used to tell me, “Boy, don’t you look at that White girl.” And there used to be a little White girl—well it was my brother she was—she was liking. But she used to, as far as she could see him, she would turn around and walk backwards. And I





knew what my parent had been telling us and I said, “Man, you just act like you don’t see her. Just keep on going.”

	W:	Your parents had prepared you for— C:	For that.

	W:	Yeah. To know what the rules were? C:	Mhmm.

	W:	Okay so it was very real. You felt it every day- C:	Yeah.

	W:	How some places you didn’t go, you know, ways to act.



	C:	And on the bus you knew that you went to the back. And you see the front might have been empty. And some of them would have a curtain. Now I never experienced that but I understand that some of them had a curtain. And, you know, you’d go behind that curtain. But I do know that sometimes the bus driver would tell you to go all the way to the back. And there would be seats on—that’s why Rosa Parks you know she wasn’t going to go—and that’s in the city buses and everything else. And let me tell you about the Army I served in; the military. When we were in Virginia they had prisoners of war there. They rode those buses and sat where they wanted to sit. They went to the theaters free; they went to the movies free. We had to pay and we had to sit where they told us to sit. And Jackie Robinson, you know, he got into something about that.

	W:	He got court marshaled because of it.



	C:	He got court marshaled because of it, yeah. They said the World War Two veterans started it but we had had enough because them bullets didn’t know the





differences. They didn’t know if you were Black or White and didn’t care. And I got shot at just like anybody else. People talked about sleeping in a foxhole; I’d sleep in a foxhole. And the thing of it is I had to dig that foxhole under fire. Well it was you and somebody else, you know, there was two of you. And you tried to prepare yourself. So, my momma used to be afraid for me because I wouldn’t take that stuff over and grab it. Excuse the expression but that’s what it was. And she said she was glad when I got away from there for that reason.

W:  In the late 1950s there was a bus boycott in Tallahassee and then in the 1960s there was the sit-ins. Do you have any knowledge of what was the bus boycott or—

C:  I know of them but I wasn’t involved, because I wasn’t there. W:  Okay. But you heard about it?

	C:	I heard about it and younger people here experienced it. And they used to talk about it. And I remember one lady said that—you know FAMU used to give a sandwich on Sunday; a sandwich for your supper. You got your lunch and most of it was fried chicken. [Laughter] And then they would give you a cheese sandwich or something, or a cheese and bologna sandwich or something for your supper. They didn’t serve that meal. And they said that they would save that to take to the jail to some of the kids that they knew that were in jail because of sit- ins or a march or something.

	W:	Mhmm. But you didn’t know anybody directly that was involved in that? C:	Yeah. I had a lot of former 4Hs that participated.





	W:	Oh really from here? Now where did they participate just anywhere? Did they go to St. Augustine—

	C:	No they went to Tallahassee. W:	They were in Tallahassee.

	C:	They were up there in school. Now here they only had two drug stores here and you know the bar stools where you sit to have drinks?

	W:	Yes, sir the soda fountain.



	C:	Yeah they took those stools out.



	W:	I’ve heard about something like that. So there was just a pole sitting there with no chair on it.

	C:	Yeah, no chair on it, yeah. That was right there in Jasper.



	W:	Now John Due’s wife was really involved in Tallahassee when she was Patricia Stevens—

	C:	Yes she was. Mhmm.



	W:	Did you know her when they were active?



	C:	I knew him because as I said, at one time he was my lawyer. I knew of her but I didn’t know her. But I had met him in you know in [29:20 inaudible] In fact, he was down there.

	W:	Were you involved in any fraternities or lodges or any fraternal organizations? C:	I remember GRE Lee 422.

	W:	Okay.



	C:	In Tallahassee. I didn’t get involved in any Greek fraternities because I was a grown man when I went up there. I think I was almost twenty-six years old when I





started the college. And I couldn’t stand them boys there being on my mind. So I didn’t bother trying.

	W:	Now we talked about the FHA and I just want to ask you some questions about different events that you can give me a quick reflection on what you think about them. The Pigford decisions where the Black farmers didn’t get help from the Farm Service Administration, is that something that you-

	C:	That must have been before, you know, a lot of farmers lost their property. W:	Yes.

	C:	Before my time through the Farmer’s Administration and they called it something else at that time. And Black farmers didn’t have supervision or anything. They thought it was some government money and they could use it and pay it back when they could. But you see if they didn’t pay the interest they were still going on. My daddy used to borrow money from—well at that time they used to call it Farmer Security Administration.

	W:	The FSA.



	C:	And all he had to do was pay the interest but my daddy didn’t like that and he paid it all off every month—or every year not every month. But before when he sold a crop, they got that money first. Because they were working with women; there was a man and a woman. But the woman was more involved in my daddy’s case than the man was. And she was trying to get him to borrow more money and he wouldn’t. She said, “Do you know what color you are?” He said, “Yeah I’m Black.” She said, “No you are not Black, you are yellow. You are yellow and you





are scared to borrow.” And he said, “I’m not borrowing more than I can pay back.”

	W:	Did he know people who had lost their land by not being able to- C:	Yeah mhmm.

	W:	So your family was thinking this is something funny here.



	C:	And now there were some Whites that lost a lot of land even before then. W:	Okay.

	C:	Because there used to be a company, of course it’s not operating anymore [32:41 inaudible] Tobacco Company. They call it the Mudge. They had acquired a lot of property from some of the White farmers during that time. They would borrow that money and they just weren’t supervised. They didn’t know what, you know. All they had to do was just keep paying interest but then some of them got to the point, I guess, down to the point where they couldn’t pay the interest. They would overspend.

	W:	And if you didn’t know the consequences it was too late. C:	Yeah that’s right.

	W:	What about the Joe Louis fight? Do you recall that when he fought Max Schmeling?

	C:	I’d watch Max Schmeling and which one was- W:	He lost the first Schmeling fight.

	C:	Okay I’ll tell you what. There was a lady—you know I lived in Ellington Community—there was a lady who ran a store and she had the radio. And there





were a lot of Blacks that participated in that. So she would invite all of us out there because they had a fight that night.

	W:	Okay so people were buying sodas and stuff at the store. They kept the store open while the fight was going on.

	C:	Yeah.



	W:	So they made money. C:	Mhmm.

	W:	So could people come inside the store or did they put the radio where there were people outside?

	C:	Well the radio was inside the store. But you could sit there and you could be in the store or you could be outside. They had a porch and all that. I was working out there on one of those farms and when Louis lost that fight I was talking to another African American and he said, “A colored man cannot beat a White man. You know that.” So that’s when he lost and in that second round-

	W:	The rematch.



	C:	The rematch. That lady there didn’t invite us. [Laughter] We didn’t raise sand but we didn’t know what had happened. She said, “Well, Schmeling lost.” There wasn’t a question because Joe Louis had knocked him out. And he didn’t have no more. The next day I went back out there on that farm and that man didn’t say anything.

	W:	So he put it in your face when he lost but didn’t say anything when he won. C:	Yeah when he won.





	W:	How did you feel about Joe Louis winning the fight? How did everybody feel about that?

	C:	Well I felt good. I was a kid. But I felt that that was good news and we had done something. But I had heard that Jack Johnson and, you know, what had happened to him. And so I said this is when we do have a Black champion boxer. And the government didn’t do him right either because when he was in the service he didn’t take a penny. He let all that money go to the government. And then in the end they said he owed so much money, back taxes and all that stuff, and that wasn’t quite fair.

	W:	Do you remember where you were when you heard that Martin Luther King had been shot?

	C:	I was in Tallahassee at the same meeting you were talking about. I was in Tallahassee.

	W:	Okay and what happened that day?



	C:	No I’m wrong it wasn’t there. That’s when Kennedy was shot. W:	Okay we’ll talk about Kennedy.

	C:	I was in Tallahassee when Kennedy was shot. But I believe I was in the VA hospital when Martin Luther King. Wasn’t it in 1968?

	W:	Yes, sir.



	C:	What month?



	W:	April fourth.



	C:	Well I was in the VA hospital. I had to have surgery and I don’t know I believe I was in the hospital when Robert Kennedy was killed too. Wasn’t that in 1968?





	W:	June 1968. So that’s three months later.



	C:	Yeah. I believe I was in the hospital and I had just gotten out. I was in the VA hospital in Lake City. Not Lake City, Gainesville.

	W:	Okay.



	C:	Because the surgery they did on me was—I had a tumor growing inside of my windpipe. But it was benign; it was not malignant. And that doctor told me, he said, “You need surgery. If you don’t take the surgery you are going to die because that tumor is going to keep growing and it’s going to choke you to death. If you take the surgery then you might still die.” He was just upfront.

	W:	Yeah he told you didn’t he? [Laughter] Everything turned out good though.



	C:	Yeah it did; it sure did. So I said, “Well what are my chances with the surgery?” He said, “Fifty-fifty.” I said, “I don’t have much of a choice.” And he said, “You should take the surgery.” And I did and about three weeks later the doctor that did the surgery came in there and looked at me, looked at the X-rays and all that stuff and he said, “You are a miracle man.” I said, “What do you mean?” He said, “Three weeks ago I wouldn’t have given a plug nickel for your life. Look at you now.” I said, “Well more than a doctor had something to do with it. I serve a man. I serve all of us.” And he could tell me whether I was going to be here or not.

	W:	I have two more questions for you. The first of the final two questions is about Barack Obama. What is your general feeling and reaction to the election of Barack Obama as President of the United States?

	C:	I think it was good. And I said this and I still say it—if they don’t want him up there then he’s still in danger. He spoke at my General Conference in 2008 in St.





Louis and my bishop said that God sent Obama to us. So if God sent him then God is going to protect him. Obama spoke at the General Conference in St.

Louis. I got to see him but I didn’t get to get close enough to him to shake his hand. But there was a lot of people there and I guess the security was tight and all that stuff which is good. But I did get to see Obama.

	W:	My last question has to do with how we met it must have been about three years ago. We met in Quincy at the SER meeting.

	C:	SER Club meeting.



	W:	Yeah we had a brief conversation about that and I wanted to know if you could talk a little bit about what SER is or stands for and how did that organization come about?

	C:	Okay now they say that it is Social Economic—I don’t know what the R stands for. Now it started off as the [42:22 inaudible] of Equal Rights. And then we changed the name to Social Economic and I want to say Resourceful but I’m not sure about that. But it was during the time that African American extensions were really having problems as far as equal rights were concerned. And we figured that together we could do a lot more than we could one by one. They could knock you off like shooting birds in the in a picture. But if you are together then somebody is going to want to investigate why thy fired all these people at one time. And that’s what I was trying to get them to see when I tried to get them to go along with Dew and let’s do a class action suit. They were talking about they were to pull me and all that but no. I got a family just like you. And if they are going to fire me, it doesn’t hurt just me. And I had children at that time; one or





two. I said all those people involved—but I said if all of us going in it together then somebody will come to our rescue because it was already happening in Alabama. But they just didn’t and I don’t regret it. But I do think that that was a hard time to move. And then I asked for some reason from one of the guys that retired. After he retired then he came to me to file. I said, “Look when I had all of us working him in particular wouldn’t even come to the meetings.” I’d call a meeting and he would always answer that he had something to do and wouldn’t come to the meeting and now he wants me to give him the file. [Laughter] To file him in the class action suit. He said he had talked to the people in Alabama and all that. I said, “Okay, yeah.” But I didn’t.

	W:	Alright today has been an interview with Mr. Isaac Chandler a member of Kiwanis International, the American Legion Post 215, the Hamilton County Democratic Executive Committee, the Hamilton County, Florida Agriculture-Mechanical University Alumni Association, a former council member for the city of Jasper who retired from extension work in 1987. I want to thank you so much for allowing me to come into your home and have this interview with you today, Mr.

Chandler. And I like to close my interviews by first thanking you so much for your time and also allow you to make any comments that you would care to make about the interview or thoughts for the future whatever they might be and a conclusion of your comments. That will conclude the interview with my thanks again.

	C:	Well I want to say that you are welcome. I am glad that you took the time to come and interview me and I hope I’ve been some help and I still think extension terms





have a long way to go. And that was the part that I was involved with and according to the population they are going to have to hire African Americans according to this population. My son applied for an extension job and in a way I’m glad he didn’t get it. I didn’t discourage him and I didn’t encourage him. And I hope this doesn’t hurt him down the road somewhere. But from me saying it, he didn’t say it. And if he is going to be treated right then I’m for it but I was not treated right. And that starts from the top extensions that go all the way down.

I’ve had some district directors and even extension directors that didn’t give me a fair shake as far as an intervention is concerned. So I’m not trying to destroy the bridge that brought me across but I did have some problems along the way. And I think that’s about all I would like to say.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Liz Gray, March 1, 2013. Audit edited by:	Anna Jimenez, July 11, 2013

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 15, 2019