AAHP 079; Yarbrough; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 079 Kristen Yarbrough African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Ann Smith on September 5, 2009 13 minutes | 10 pages



Abstract: Kristen Yarbrough was born in Rockledge, Florida. In this interview during the 2009 University of Florida Black Alumni Weekend, she relates some of her family history, and explains how she ended up attending UF and what her experiences were as a student—having just graduated about half a year prior to the interview. She offers a very positive account of her student experience, and also offers some advice to prospective students who are looking to go to college.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]





















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 079

Interviewee: Kristen Yarbrough Interviewer: Ann Smith

Date: September 5, 2009



	S:	All right. My name is Ann Smith, and I’m a volunteer at the Sam Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida. I am at the Hilton Hotel on September 5th, 2009, and I’m interviewing Kristen Yarbrough. And we’re at the alumni—Black Alumni. First of all, tell me where you were born.

	Y:	Rockledge, Florida.

		S:	Rockledge. Okay. And when? What year? Y:	1987

	S:	[19]87? Okay. Did you go to high school in Rockledge? Y:	Rockledge High. That was our high school.

	S:	Mmhm, mmhm. And you have siblings? Y:	Yes, I have an older brother.

	S:	An older brother. And he’s how many years older?



	Y:	He’ll be twenty-seven in December, so he’s twenty-six. S:	And now, tell me if either of your parents went to college. Y:	Mmhm, both went to UF.

	S:	Oh! So they can tell you all the corners can’t they? Y:	Right! [Laughter]

	S:	Oh, good for you! What do they do?



	Y:	My dad went to pharmacy school, and mom went to nursing school. S:	Oh. And did your mom go to the baccalaureate program here?

	Y:	Yes, I’m pretty sure she did. I don’t have any pictures off hand. I can’t think of it because I wasn’t born then, so, yeah. [Laughter]





	S:	What is her name? Y:	Deborah Yarbrough S:	Deborah

	Y:	Well, probably it’s under Ferguson Yarbrough, her maiden name. S:	And Ferguson—the next thing I was going to ask you.

	Y:	She was 1982.



	S:	[19]82.



	Y:	Mmhm. 1982.



	S:	Okay, great! Because I’m also a nurse.



	Y:	Oh, okay! Yeah. She’s a registered nurse.



	S:	Yeah, and so that’s part of the reason—and so, did she work while you were growing up?

	Y:	Well, before I was born, she started at Cape Canaveral, which is the hospital on Cocoa Beach. So, she’s been there for over twenty years. And she loves it. [Laughter]

	S:	Good for her! What does your dad do? Y:	Pharmacist at CVS.

	S:	Oh, you told me. I’m sorry. I’m sorry. Okay. So you kind of didn’t have a choice of schools, did you? [Laughter] Okay, so, and did you just graduate from high school and then come directly here as a freshman?

	Y:	Mmhm, I graduated in May 2005 and I started in June so 2005. So about a month later. I was ready to go. [Laughter]

	S:	[Laughter] Why wait, huh?





	Y:	Mmhm, right.



	S:	Wonderful! Now, did you consider any other colleges?



	Y:	Yeah, actually University of Florida was my last choice. [Laughter] Because both my parents went here, and actually my uncle went here too, so I wanted, like, a different—I was like, “I don’t want to do what everybody else did, I want to do something different.” I went and looked at Duke, and North Carolina, and schools far away, but I ended up here! And it’s the best decision I made in my life. So.

	S:	Really? Was it a good experience? Y:	Right, yes.

	S:	Oh that’s wonderful! So you started in—tell me what year? Y:	June 2005.

	S:	Okay. Where did you live? Y:	Here.

	S:	On campus?



	Y:	Oh, yes! My Freshman year I started off in Lakeside. I stayed on campus up until my sophomore year, and then junior year I got an apartment off campus.

	S:	Both of those good places, or did you have good experiences there?



Y:  Yes, because I didn’t—like, the normal dorms like Broward—I was lucky, and I got to stay in Lakeside where you had your own room, and bathroom, and you could cook. And didn’t have to go and cook and worry about somebody taking your food.

S:   That’s right. That’s right.



Y:   I got lucky staying in good dorms.





	S:	Yeah, that’s good. That’s good. And did you already know what your major was going to be when you got here?

	Y:	Kind of, sort of. I was between—because I did Sports Management, I did a minor in Business as well. So, I was kind of starting to go toward the Accounting direction and do a minor in Business, but I just stuck with Sports Management.

Because it’s the exact same classes as Management and Business that you would take. So, yeah, I think I stuck with the same major from my freshman up until my senior year.

	S:	And you graduated in what year? Y:	May 2009. Just graduated.

	S:	Well, congratulations! That’s wonderful. That’s wonderful. And now, what are your plans?

	Y:	Thank God, I finally—I have been sending my resumes out, and kept getting denied with the job market being so bad, and I finally got lucky in July. And I got a job with this insurance company here in Gainesville, Cabrillo General Insurance.

	S:	What insurance?



Y:  Cabrillo General Insurance. They’re like an MGA, they are underwriting for other insurance companies. Homeowner’s insurance is what we do.

S:  And, so you’ve started? Y:  Mmhm. I started in July. S:  You liking it?

Y:   Yes.





	S:	Oh, that’s wonderful! That’s wonderful! When you came to school, did you feel like you had a big adjustment? Did you have friends here? Did you have to start out with a new social network?

	Y:	Mmhm. I’m trying to think. From my high school, it was just me and probably two others. It was three total that got accepted to University of Florida. I did have to start out with a new group of friends. I came here and I didn’t really know anybody. Everybody was just new to me. That was an experience, because when I got here in the summer, I was kind of sad because all my friends that I went to high school with are going to the same schools and I was by myself. But, it worked out perfectly fine because I met people that I’m friends with that I know are going to continue for a lifetime. So, it’s been a great experience.

	S:	That’s wonderful. Well, did you make both Black friends and White friends?



	Y:	Mmhm. Yeah, because growing up, actually, my neighborhood, we’re the only Black family in our neighborhood. And growing up in elementary school, I went to a predominantly White school, and I was in the accelerated classes, so I was usually the only Black girl in the classes. So I mean, I’ve met both areas of friends, Black, White, Puerto Rican; all types of friends. It’s just an experience, too, to broaden your friendships.

	S:	That’s life. It’s the real world, isn’t it?



	Y:	Mmhm. For me, it wasn’t a culture shock, because a lot of my friends that I have made up here were from predominantly Black schools. So it was kind of like an adjustment, like, “Oh my gosh, I never seen other people not my color”; but for me, it was just natural because I’ve grown up in that environment.





	S:	So it was an easier transition for you.



	Y:	Yeah, I’ve had both experiences. Mmhm.



	S:	Well, how about the academics? Was that difficult for you?



Y:  I prepared. It wasn’t like I got to my senior year and—I took all these accelerated classes and I got to my senior year and said, “I’m just going to take Gym and I’m going to go home early.” Like, no. My parents were like, “No, you’re going to take this class,” so I had to take AP Calculus. I took Anatomy/Physiology. I was taking college courses. So, I was prepared.

	S:	So it wasn’t a big shock to— Y:	Definitely helped me out.

	S:	—get here on campus with all of the other competition. Y:	Right. [Laughter] Right.

	S:	Yeah, yeah. Did you get homesick?



Y:   The first day I got up here. The first day, the first night, I cried the first night when I was looking at my senior yearbook. After that, I was fine.

	S:	You were okay?



	Y:	Mmhm.



	S:	Well, and you’re close enough. Y:	Yeah, exactly.

	S:	So if the weekend looked really dim, you could push on down there. [Laughter] Y:	Right. Right. [Laughter]





	S:	When you look back at your whole education—now, you haven’t been out a long time—but would you say right now, you think that it prepared you well for a career, and life, and other things? You feel like—?

	Y:	Right. I know one of my classes that was required for my major was Speech. And that has definitely helped me speaking before people. And even in my job, I have constant communication and interaction with people over the phone, constant communication with my co-workers. So that’s the class that really helped me, because I used to be quiet and kind of reserved, and now, I speak—you know, it has helped me a lot, the classes that I had taken.

	S:	That’s good. Probably with each succeeding year, when you look back and you say, “Oh, I didn’t know I needed that, but it’s helping.” Or, “I know now why it was important.”

	Y:	Right. Mmhm. Exactly.



	S:	Good for you. Good for you. Do you think you’ll go on to school and go to graduate school?

	Y:	Oh yes, definitely. I have my GMAT booked now, and I want to get my Master’s in Business. And then, I want to go to law school. [Laughter] So.

	S:	No stopping you! Well, good for you. Well, that’s wonderful. Well, maybe living in Gainesville will kind of facilitate that.

	Y:	Exactly.



	S:	That’s wonderful. Good for you. We’ll kind of hurry this along, because I know you’ve got other plans. If you had the ear of the UF administration, and they





wanted to know suggestions about how the university could be better, could better serve the student, would you have suggestions?

	Y:	I think, like Mike Powell was saying in the brunch today, I think having more transition programs for students—such as, you know, helping them adjust to the college life—would be helpful because a lot of students come here, and they get sidetracked and they have to go back home, because they don’t do well, and they don’t succeed. And then, also, a lot of students don’t have somebody who is ahead of them who has been there, like a mentor that can help guide them along the way. So I think definitely putting more programs that will help transition students, that would be the best thing to do.

	S:	That’s good. That’s good. Do you think that the size of the university is overwhelming to some students, or was it to you, or can you find your little corner?

	Y:	I think for me, it really wasn’t that—I look at the school, and now I’m like—when I first got here, I was like, “Oh, wow. This is big.” But now I’m like, “Okay, I know how to get here. I know how to get there.” But I think for a lot of students coming to a school with over fifty thousand students, it is a really big shock. I know one of my roommates, the first summer she was gone before the summer ended, because she got so homesick and she wasn’t used to all the people. And I think that’s another thing students have a issue with is, you’re in a class with six hundred students, and you have to make your way for the professor to know who you are. And that’s a challenge for some students who are quiet and reserved.





	S:	Sure. That’s right. That’s right. So, if you had maybe somebody from your high school who was getting ready to graduate, and they wanted to talk to you about your experiences, could you recommend University of Florida, or would you caution them?

	Y:	Definitely for the best education, this is the best school. And it’s one of the top- notch schools for it being—it was competitive when I got in here in 2005. It’s even more competitive every year. I have actually a godsister that is in tenth grade now, so she wants to come here. So I’m definitely encouraging that.

Definitely, the kids that are back a home, definitely encouraging them to go to college. And University of Florida is the number one choice. It’s the best education you can get.

	S:	Sure. Well now, do you have things that you’d like to document? Anything about your experience either as a student or now as an alumni? Anything that you’d like to address that I haven’t asked a question about?

	Y:	To summarize my whole experience, it was the best experience. Everybody told me, “Your college years will be your best years.” And like I said, the friendships I’ve made with people, they’re like a lifetime—I can’t even describe the, the experience is so—I had so many wonderful experiences here at this school. I think about if I went to any other school, it wouldn’t have been like how it is at the University of Florida. And I would encourage any young person to definitely come here. It’s the best education, and also one thing, it’s the Gator Nation. So when you meet a Gator—I got an internship because of a former alumni that went to school with my parents. And that’s how I got an internship last summer. You





even get job offers, so it’s always the best choice. Gators always look out for Gators. Definitely the best choice.

	S:	Are your parents proud of you? Y:	Yes. [Laughter]

	S:	And they should be. And if they aren’t, you tell them I said they should be! Y:	Thank you.

	S:	That’s wonderful! That’s wonderful. That’s great. Well, I don’t want to keep you any longer than you have. Thank you very much for participating, and I wish you all the very best success.

	Y:	Thank you. [End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, August 18, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019