AAHP 005, Williams; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 005 Mattie Williams Interviewed by Marna Weston on January 16, 2010

15 minutes | 10 pages



Abstract: Mattie Williams, 101 years old at the time of this interview, talks with Marna Weston about her life in Florida over the years. She mentions changes she has seen in the community, and shares stories of her childhood. Ms. Williams talks about her parent’s background and their journey to Gainesville and High Springs, where she was raised by her mother, and her limited experiences with school growing up.



Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida]



























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 005

Interviewee: Mattie Williams Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: January 16, 2010



	WE:	This is Marna Weston for the University of Florida Oral History archives on January 16, 2010. I’m at the home of Ms. Mattie Williams in High Springs, Florida. Miss Williams is 101 years old. How are you today, Ms. Williams? How are you?

	WI:	How, I’m doing?



	WE:	Yes, ma’am.



	WI:	I’m doing good. Thank God.



	WE:	Mhm. Could you tell me when you were born? WI:	Tallahassee, Florida.

	WE:	Okay, what year?



	WI:	Oh what, one probably say 1912, and another one said—I think it’s 1912, I don’t know, but I had another one. Knowing that time the midwife didn’t keep up with your birthday like people do today. I think I was born May 30, 1912 or 1908. I think that’s the way they got it.

	WE:	May 30, 1908? WI:	Mhm.

	WE:	And you were born in Tallahassee? WI:	Yeah.

	WE:	In the city of?



	WI:	Out in the country.



	WE:	Out in the country. Close to Quincy or close to—what part of Tallahassee out in the country?





	WI:	Just Tallahassee, that’s all I know. Out there in Tallahassee, out in—like they had them little towns out from the main. Just Tallahassee, Florida.

	WE:	And who was your momma and daddy? What were their names?



	WI:	My momma was a Mary Wilson but my daddy raised me in Ft. Meyers, Florida WE:	Okay, and what’s his name?

	WI:	My daddy, Henry Cromartie.



	WE:	Comra—can you spell it, his last name? WI:	C-R-O-M-A-R-T-I-E.

	WE:	And where did he come from? How did he come to Fort Myers?



	WI:	Yeah, he was born up in Tallahassee, too. Out there ‘til he was seven and took all the—look back somewhere or something like that. [Laughter] I don’t know what. He went to Fort Myers, when he was very young and—but he had left my mom pregnant. So whenever he wanted to get me so we went after I was a pretty good little size girl, young. But I was walking good and doing—and my daddy come and took me away from my momma and I was raised in Fort Myers, Florida along with him.

	WE:	Do you have—? WI:	And my stepmother.

	WE:	Who was your stepmother? What’s your stepmother’s name? WI:	Jeannette Cromartie.

	WE:	And do you remember where she was from? WI:	Huh?

	WE:	Where was she from?





	WI:	I don’t know, Fort Myers or where. I don’t know where she was from. WE:	Were you from a big family? Did you have a lot of brothers and sisters?

	WI:	My momma had quite a few kids. I think she had about, let me see… I think I had about seven brothers and I think about five or six sisters.

	WE:	Are any of them still living?



	WI:	Yeah, I got two sisters living. I got one near right there and one up the street. WE:	And what are their names?

	WI:	Huh?



	WE:	What are the names of your sisters?



	WI:	That’s Pretty Lee Anderson is right there and the other one is Coral Williams. WE:	Okay, and were you— were you married?

	WI:	Huh?



	WE:	Were you married? WI:	Was I married?

	WE:	Yes ma’am



WI: Yeah I was married twice. WE:  And how many—?

WI:  That girl there is my first husband daughter, but I don’t have any children from him. Oh yeah, that boy there he’s from my—once I had, I didn’t have no girl, I think I had four, I think four boys.

	WE:	And what is your son’s name who’s here? WI:	Franklin Jeff Williams.

	WE:	Okay, and was he born here in Alachua County?





WI:  Yeah.



WE: And how old is he? Or what year was he born? WI:  How old is he?

WE:  Yes ma’am.



WI:  I don’t know, he’s sixty-one, sixty-seven, I don’t know. You have to ask him, I can’t keep up with it.

WE: Yes ma’am, I can ask him. So how long have you lived in High Springs? WI:  Ever since I was around sixteen, seventeen years old I’ve been up here. WE:  Did you go to school before you came to High Springs?

WI:  I went to school a little bit down there in Fort Myers, but I didn’t go—I had a step mom so they didn’t send me to school. So I didn’t—don’t have any education far as concerned, but I could do enough to take care of my business.

WE:  Why didn’t you go to school?



	WI:	I don’t know why they didn’t send me to school, that was up to them, my daddy and my stepmomma. If it had been my mamma I would have went to school. I don’t know, I can’t answer that question, ‘cause I don’t know why they didn’t send me to school.

	WE:	So you got here when you were sixteen years old. Did you work when you came to High Springs? Did you have a job when you came to High Springs?

	WI:	Did I have a job?



	WE:	Yes, ma’am when you were sixteen?



	WI:	Yeah. When I first got to High Springs, when I first moved I met up with this boy’s daddy and he the one brought me from Fort Myers up here, now they’re





dead. Up here from Fort Myers to High Springs, but it was out in the country. I stayed out there for a good while and worked on the farm with his parents. So I finally got in touch with some people at High Springs, up here. This is Clark’s, down there they’d call Clark’s and Wade’s right after I was pregnant, and I come up here and I started working in the house. That’s how I got up to High Springs, through a friend of mine, ‘cause he told he had joined the Holiness Church, and I got acquainted with different people and so I come from out there to Clark Wade—Clark’s or Wade—and come up to High Springs and start got me a job, and start working. And from then on, my husband—I mean my first husband, we got—he went to Miami and left me up here. So he wanted me to come to Miami and I didn’t go so Friday we got divorced.

	WE:	What was his name? Your first husband, what was his name? WI:	Huh?

	WE:	Your first husband, what was his name? WI:	Oh, Willy Harris.

	WE:	Okay, you all got divorced, and then you got married again. Now what was your second husband’s name?

	WI:	My second’s husband name was Robert Williams, was his name. WE:	Was he from up there in North Florida from High Springs?

	WI:	Huh?



	WE:	Was he from High Springs? WI:	Was he?

	WE:	He came from here?





	WI:	Was he what?



	WE:	Did he come from High Springs? Where was his family from? WI:	Where he’s from?

	WE:	Yes, ma’am



	WI:	I don’t know. That girl in there can talk, ‘cause that’s my first—my husband—no. WE:	That’s her daddy.

	WI:	Yeah, but she don’t know because after my first husband, I married her daddy, but that’s not my daughter ‘cause we separated, and he raised him and his second wife, we were real good friends and everything. Anyway, I don’t know all that stuff.

	WE:	You lived here in High Springs. Have you seen a lot of changes in High Springs over the years?

	WI:	Yeah, over the years, hard times and good times. Doing my work, I always would work. I’d get me something good, too, and one time I was working for a dollar and a half a week, and I had worked for a dollar a week. So many, so many white people’s houses and things. I work for—I worked there. Every now and then we’d go ‘cause we could get a pound of lard for fifty cents. Grocery wasn’t high then, you get all that stuff real cheap. Go get a dime worth of lard, a dime of milk, fifteen cents worth a rice said, you get a big—that’s low in those days.

	WE:	Did you—do you like music? WI:	Huh?

	WE:	Do you like music? Music, ma’am.





	WI:	Huh?



	WE:	Music, do you like music? WI:	Yeah.

	WE:	Do you have a favorite singer? WI	Do I have what?

	WE:	A singer that you like. Somebody that sings. WI:	I really didn’t hear what you said.

	WE:	Yes ma’am. I’m asking do you like any kind of music. Do you like singers, do you like Duke Ellington—

	WI	Do you I like to stay here?



	WE:	No ma’am, singing [Sings]: la la la la la la la. Singing.



	WI:	Oh yeah, I love singing. I do love it, there used to be a group down here that used to come to your house and have singing and prayer with you. I don’t know if it’s still going since I come back, ‘cause I’ve been in the hospital.

	WE:	Yes, ma’am.



	WI:	I just got back home Friday. WE:	Okay.

	WI:	I was at the hospital because I fell and then came into the hospital and I stayed in there after the accident in the hospital at the rehab place over in Gainesville? I stayed over there until Friday, I come home Friday. I fell and couldn’t get up.

Stayed over there for a while.



	WE:	Do you go to church a lot? WI:	Huh?





	WE:	Do you go to church?



	WI:	Yeah I go to church when I could. Up that church, right up that Mt. Carmel United Methodist Church, that’s my church.

	WE:	Have you gone there for a long time? You know, this weekend is Martin Luther King weekend. This is Martin Luther King weekend. Martin Luther King?

	WI:	Martin Luther King? WE:	Yeah this is the holiday. WI:	Is that right.

	WE:	Well this is the King weekend, I wanted to ask you a little about Martin Luther King.

	WI:	I don’t understand what you said. Did I know him?



	WE:	Did you know of him, things that happened in his life, do you remember when he got killed?

	WI:	Yeah, I remember.



	WE:	What do you think about Barack Obama?



	WI:	It’s just a man up there, I don’t know, I think he all right, whatever they put up there. I guess he all right. I listen to his speech and his talk and all like that occasionally, whenever he on TV. But I was glad he won.

	WE:	Did you think he would win? WI:	Hm?

	WE:	Did you think he would win?



	WI:	Yeah, I felt like he would because a lot of people was for him. Like he would go down and talk to before election time come. A lot of people voted for him.





	WE:	Did you ever think when you were a little girl, that there would be a Black president?

	WI:	No I didn’t. I ain’t never thought too much about the presidents. WE:	[Laughter] Oh really? Why is that?

	WI:	I don’t know, I just didn’t never thought too much about them. WE:	Do you ever talk to young people like at school?

	WI:	Huh?



	WE:	Do you talk to young people, children? WI:	Do I talk?

	WE:	Do you talk to children about how they need to go to school, need to act right? WI:	Oh, I didn’t go to school that much. I had children that go to school, that boy, him.

All my children, my boys they were wonderful boys and all of them passed away but this one here. This one here, he went to school, finished high school, then played professional football with the Minnesota Vikings.

	WE:	Oh really?



	WI:	That was this one here, and that’s all of what I got left out of my four boys.



	WE:	Well Miss Mattie, I appreciate you talking to me today. Thank you for letting me talk to you today.

	WI:	Oh, okay.



	WE:	I hope that I can come back and talk to you again sometime. WI:	Okay, yeah.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Anna Jimenez April 26, 2013 Audit edited by:	Toni-Lee Maitland, June 27, 2014 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 15, 2019