AAHP 676; Davis; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 676 Joe Davis

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Deon Winchester on July 6, 2019 1 hours and 21 minute | 34 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Joe Davis talks about his time in the military, his family, and Pensacola. Davis made a career out of being in the military including being an infantry man and a recruiter. Due to his successful career, Davis was able to retire and work in Customs, a postman, and later open his own seafood truck. Davis also talks about his family and about how he tries to teach his family about life and God. Raised in Pensacola, Mr. Davis cares a lot about the community talk about the housing crisis and how Black people have been disapprovingly put in jail. He talks about creating a plan where the community donates a dollar a month so they don’t have to rely on the government and can tackle the housing and prison issues. Davis concludes the interview talking about his relationship with God and gives advice to how people should be trying to help one another.



Keywords: [African American History Project, Joel Buchanan Project, JBA, African American Studies Department, Pensacola, Housing Crisis, Community, Military]













































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 676

Interviewee: Joe Davis Interviewer: Deon Winchester Date: July 6, 2019



	W:	Good morning Mr. Davis! D:	Morning

	W:	My name is Deon Winchester; I am with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. We are here at the Chappie James Museum Saturday, July the sixth. First let me thank you for taking the time to share with us your history. Let us begin by you can tell me a bit about yourself, you’re upbringing, are you from Pensacola?

	D:	Oh yeah, oh boy I was born in Alabama, so I lived in Pensacola from three months of age to now or the time I went into the service and all maintain this [inaudible 00:47] record.

	W:	What was life like growing up in Pensacola? What was life like at the time?



	D:	Well, we had the segregation thing of course, the Black and White thing but I never accepted that so I didn’t let that define me nor do I think it should. So, I just rolled with the punch and did what I had to do but I never felt less than a human being or a man.

	W:	What was some of the things you think helped shaped you coming up as a man?



You know in face of all of that going on around you.



	D:	Well, I was raised primarily by my grandmother and the wisdom that she taught, they call her mother [inaudible 01:42] in those days. It was a lot of good teaching thing, not to do thing, whom not to associate with and I took it to heart, and it did me very well.

	W:	It did, any wise words you recall from your grandmother? Any words of wisdom?





	D:	Yeah, treat people like you like to be treated and watch who you associate with, look at what they do, once you see what they do if it’s not good you refrain from being associated with those kinds of people. You didn’t throw them away, you just didn’t put quality time with them. So, that’s served me very well.

	W:	Mr. Davis could you tell me a bit about your family history as far as you can recall, you know, your grandmother and any stories that may have been passed on in family.

	D:	That’s a lot of story, they were from Alabama originally and they were under the old—what’s it called—sharecropper system and it didn’t serve Black people very well. They worked at whatever times the people dictated, they couldn’t take off like anybody else would. That place was like any field so to speak if you will. To make a long story short, they always came up on the short end. For example, in a job if you had made another two bales of cotton you would come off ahead not in debt. So, there’s a perpetual thing being in debt all the time and it didn’t make sense to me but that’s the only choice they felt they were left with. Those who thought ahead they migrated to the Northern cities and they had a better life.

	W:	Did any of your family migrate? Or I guess they mostly stayed within. D:	They were there in Pensacola

	W:	Could you tell me a bit of your education of what it was like going to school and how did you progress?

	D:	Well, again we were under the segregated system. We had the Black school here and the White school there, supposedly separate but equal but that was never the case. That’s impossible in the first place. So, we had dedicated good





Black teachers that would talk to us in addition to things about education, moral things about life and I remember Mr. Hicks, Malcom Hicks he stood out very well on that. He would just close the door in some case and just talk about whatever triggered the discussion and I took a lot of that to heart.

	W:	What subject did he teach, Mr. Hicks? D:	He was Math.

	W:	You know were there any other institutions in addition to school.



	D:	We had Washington Junior College which was a formally for Blacks to attend.



You know Pensacola, they called it a PJC [Pensacola Junior College] then or the White thing of course they integrated in the early [19]70s or late [19]60s rather but again I didn’t let the system define me. I made whatever I used to forge ahead to better myself but never said I was less than anybody else, never, no way!

	W:	What year did you grad—what was the—? D:	1960.

	W:	From a…



	D:	High school then after being in the army [inaudible 05:34] for advance. They encouraged it to get a college education, so I enrolled in an Associate Liberal Arts Degree and I have a hundred and nine hours total. One day before I leave this earth I’ll go ahead and finish it. Should’ve done it already but I had other things for example, as I retired, I sought employment locally, it wasn’t that good. So, I eventually applied to the Naval Air station. I got hired there as a Security Officer and at the same time I had took an exam for the Postal Service and the





U.S. Customs Service. So, about two months I was at the security force, Customs called I took the service transfer agency to Customs and Customs was a challenging job but I enjoy it. Never dealt [inaudible 06:36] [Laughter].

	W:	I could imagine, I could imagine.



	D:	Only thing bad about that I was assigned to New Jersey man, god I hated New Jersey [Laughter] but other than that I enjoyed going to work.

	W:	Could you tell me a bit upon graduation what were some of the influences for you go into the military?

	D:	Well, I looked what was available to Black men in Pensacola, I didn’t see much at all. Now I wanted to accept the colored job as they referred to at the time, I could do that but that just wasn’t me doing that. I remember I had a cousin, “Aw man, you may as well get you [inaudible 07:30], a colored he man can’t do this”. No, no, no I would never resign myself to do that. So, after applying to a construction job no big deal but what I noticed on the construction job, the White guys had all the equipment operations and things like that. The Black guy would shovel, the lowest manual thing you could do. I just wasn’t ready to accept that. I knew having read about the service and reading about Black advancement in the military compared to civilian life, I chose to go to the military.

	W:	What year did you enlist?



	D:	August 1960, I came out of high school June [19]60 and I went into the army on the 29th of August [19]60.

	W:	Prior you were telling me a bit about your military service, what was that like going into the military as a young man and the career that you had?





	D:	Well, something I expected, somethings you learn as you go. I had a buddy, I tried to carry him along with me and I knew if I left the guy on his own he was gonna probably wouldn’t make it. So, I opted to take an assignment as a infantry man just trying to keep him together but that’s something I wouldn’t do again if I had to do it because the guy [inaudible 09:05] anyways. He did the time and got out, he didn’t try to do anything else. So, I decided okay I’m going to stay in the military rather than come out to this foolishness. As a matter in fact, during the time I was out I went to the local employment office and you know you take the placement exam as they called it—no, what was ironic some of the same exact questions on that test was on the military, aw shuck they got to be kidding me.

So, like you took your test on Monday, Thursday they get the results, you come in, “So, Joe you’re two points up all the good things, one point off. You’re likely good with your hands and have you ever thought about being a plumber?” Well, I figure I give it a challenge see I’ll try it. She gave the card and told me to go to this place over by Pensacola Boulevard. Mr. Blanketship he’s the guy you’re gonna see you. Now, with you being colored, they still used that term. You might get a hard time, hey I’ll challenge it. So, what time should I be over there? “Seven o’clock”, every time I went over there Mr. Blanketship wasn’t available which I knew was crap. So, okay I’ll go earlier then [Laughter] and he still wasn’t in. So, I’ll write to this guy to his [inaudible 10:29] he could just push for work. I got a job here, it fit very well so what’s the qualification for that job? [inaudible 10:39- 10:41] We need somebody big and husky and that just ticked me off man. So, I said other words you want me nigger job. “No, no, no Mr. Davis I don’t mean it





like that, I’m from Ohio”. Look man that’s not helping me. He said, “Well, you thought about going back in the army”. Yeah, just now you guys just made up my mind [Laughter] on going back, that’s what I did.

	W:	So, your first stint was how long? Your first… D:	Civilian?

	W:	Yeah.



	D:	About eighty-seven days. W:	And then you went back in? D:	Mhmm.

	W:	What did you do when you go back in?



	D:	Well, I resumed [inaudible 11:16] repair. Now a matter of fact when I got out I repair telephone in Chicago [inaudible 11:24]. They gave me the date to come in and interview. So, I got one of the last trains out of Pensacola with the hotel is uh, Hilton [inaudible 00:11:38] or whatever it is [inaudible 11:41] Wright street.

And that was a derail ahead of the train so I was delayed getting there so my stepfather helped say to them, “We’ll look at job ads in the paper”. Many had jobs all over the place for that skill I had in the army. So, I go talk to the guy, he said, “Well you want to start tomorrow night?” Man, give me a break I just got down rest of the little bit but I know I’m probably getting the job but I hated Chicago [Laughter]. The first time I ever seen burglar bars was there, we got out of Vietnam but then to me it was like gosh we’re living in prison man. So, why you’re police in there. So, I woke up one morning some guy come through the





kitchen windows in the house. No, no, that’s not for me, no, no. So, any way I went back to the military until I retired.

	W:	You seemed to have quite extensive career in the military, traveled a lot within America and of course if you would do you want to speak to some of that? To some of your travels within…

	D:	My first assignment was Fort Worth Washington that’s up in the Tacoma, Seattle area. I was there until I went from there to Panama. Now Panama was terrific, the weather was beautiful. The lowest temperature was like seventy-two. They had a rainy season and a dry season but man I couldn’t ask for a better duty than there and then at the same time I wanted to come back to the states. You fly in from Panama into Miami, from Miami to here. In other words I could be overseas and two hours later I be back home and they had a policy because of housing shortages body regulation but the reserve time that put me over four years of pay purpose so I qualified for housing. But since they had a housing shortage they give the commanders the authority to manipulate and so where you go to be [inaudible 13:56] and E4 then E5 to go on the housing list but then I could rent on the economy, god man. They couldn’t give it me for free. So, it was like three days in route to Panama, not knowing the situation so then they had the policy, okay you have to be in the command a year before you can get leave and I didn’t want to hear that either. So, to make a long story short, I wrote to a congressman and he tell us a little bit, “Well, your commander got this authority and that”.

Okay, so this is what I learned to check regulations. A lot of guys are going to the military and they just throw it to the back. [inaudible 14:45] actually he is on





regulation, so I put in a request for theses regulation criteria. “Man, you can’t go in the [inaudible 15:00]”. Watch me, watch me so I got a leave and I’d been there nine months. People [inaudible 15:11] you got to know, show me what I can’t do by regulation, fine I get out and leave you alone but until then don’t hear it, not without a fight. To make a long story short, I came home twice a matter of fact so then it worked out, “Hey go see Joe Davis if—”, so then you become the out of house lawyer and by the time they got to me for housing I had completed twenty- eight months on this, the heck with this. I’m going to get out although I know coming back in I’m going to get out just cause you guys made me mad so I got out and I got out on the 16th of July and the 13th of October I came back in. Now, I got out three days before the committee guys defeated ‘ Nam then you’re watching television and you see the guys loading up the equipment and all this stuff, planes, ships, going to Vietnam. So, I’m telling guys I think I’m going back, “Man, you crazy, they shooting in Vietnam blah blah blah”. Well, look if God is with me I’ll be alright and if not I can stay at home and die in bed that day, whatever the case is but thank God I’m deep in my believe and far and too it.

	W:	It seems being in the military, it’s seems like you still had—the military advance your career it seems you still were an advocate for justice and—

	D:	Oh yeah! Always, a lot of time I would see things and I’ll put the guys and say, do this or do that and then he’d do it and do okay. But you know young hot heads especially brothers will do it their way and make a mess.

	W:	What was the military like at that time? Vietnam was the first war where units were desegregated.





	D:	Well, no desegregation started in 1948 under Harry Truman but it was completed in [19]’52. One of the last Black units was dissolved and became—

	W:	It was progress, so what was that experience like? D:	I never served in an all Black outfit.

	W:	So, all of your experiences…



	D:	The assignments I had they were phased in, you know, integrated. Now, what I did notice, my first assignment was in Korea in an infantry division, the pay was about fifteen dollars, you know, various units make up a division but what I noticed was our company would be two hundred and twenty men [inaudible 18:13] I don’t care where I looked, I never seen more than fifteen Blacks to a company. It’s just an observation, Lord know more hell could be true and [inaudible 18:26] had some [inaudible 18:27] from previously all white outfits. I never had any direct confrontation with that but I could look around and see. Like I remember this company I was in had a Black captain take over and he [inaudible 18:45] wonder why [inaudible 18:46] to another, “Aw this company going to hell now”, because a Black guy took it over but that worked out. That’s still the attitude they had you know. So, what I realized to this day the military is a microcosm of civilians in other words the guy was a bigot. He’s gonna be a bigot. No, but what I also learned is people are not born that way, they’re taught that way but then that’s why they put regulation back in play. If I knew what the regulation say, I don’t care this guy trying to pull, wait a minute, wait a minute Sergeant go back you missed page one. Before you go to page three you should check what’s on page one and that’s served me very well. So, when I would





enlist young Black men or women. I’ll tell them the same thing…and it worked well.

	W:	You mentioned your career as recruiting, can you speak about from Vietnam to you reenlisting in the recruitment?

	D:	Oh when I became a recruiter, I already completed my assignment in Vietnam. Matter of fact, I came back in there. I went to Fort Earl Virginia after I came back in. So, from there on I worked in my field teletype repair and instillation. I was there seven months when I got orders to go to Vietnam. So, even in Vietnam I still did the same thing but nobody was safe in Vietnam, NOBODY. Believe me when I tell you. So, you had to be on the Ps and Qs, being in the field I was in I put a lot of twelve to fourteen hour days just in the communications center no mention of the instillation or whatever. And I had a cousin, I knew he was coming to Vietnam but I didn’t expect to see him. So, one day I got off duty on one side of the building had the mess hall and the other side of the building had the MCO club or club so you could get there or whatever while you getting ready to eat or you can take it in with you. So, I said okay I think I’ll go to club and hang out with the guys a bit and so the door had glass in it and the first face I look through the door and see is my cousin and he didn’t see me I saw him first. So, I walked to him and boy you could’ve sold him for a penny. I said, how long you’ve been there man? Come to find out man, I’m in this building, the other building he been there three weeks. We were that close to each other and didn’t know we were that close. So, that was uplifting for both of us and one thing I noticed is





everywhere I went overseas I’d always meets somebody from Pensacola that was in the service. I ran into three guys from here in Vietnam matter a fact.

	W:	I bet the veterans group is probably pretty large in Pensacola.



	D:	Well, it’s not what it could be at this point. The Hamilton Watch was…[inaudible 22:40]

	W:	Yes!



	D:	That’s the biggest group for Black veterans here. There are other organizations but I think the experiences a lot of guys had don’t bother with it. I like for example, Veterans’ Day Parade. Not that I got anything against it, it’s just it don’t resonate when I look at the way things still are…it’s like America said okay we’ll wrap ourself in the flag, do you? While you do it still don’t do what the flag say you ought to do. For example, Colin Kaepernick, the football player, the quarterback did the—

	W:	Yes, Colin Kaepernick.



	D:	Yeah, now the man was right and I support him on his decision. Now there are consequences but he had the courage to suffer the consequences. He knew that was always the possibility. Then you get a chump and notice I said chump like the current Commander in Chief, God help us and here’s a joker who gets doctors [inaudible 23:58]. So you—come on and then all these other fellas went. Some of them didn’t go to Canada, they went. Some made it back, some didn’t. You are the Commander in Chief? Look at the crap he’s doing. He shred the Constitution, he took over and destroyed the Republican Party and well on his





course of destroying the United States unless they stop it and I’ll say that any day and I don’t care who know it.

	W:	Indeed…Mr. Davis in our discussions you were talking about being a recruiter, could you talk about how you became a recruiter in your final years in the military?

	D:	Certainly, at that time I had been in the army since [19]’71…about nine years and a few months and they were asking for Black volunteer [inaudible 25:13] for military intelligence duty. So, I was getting my application materials for that and the reason being, selfish to a degree yes, I knew that it was a wide open to I becoming a Warrant officer. That was my ultimate goal and then a few weeks later, they started asking for Black volunteers for recruiting duty and the reason was the combat casualty, death rates among Blacks in Vietnam compared to Whites we only make up twelve percent of the American population then about twenty percent in combat deaths, why is that? Because the assignments that you put on. I said okay if I go as a recruiter instead spying on Blacks—really what it come to like the community thing, [inaudible 26:04] White it is you couldn’t go.

So, why not go in the recruiting force and still qualify Blacks into the direction and good jobs as well because my feeling was a Black kid going to a recruiting station, they don’t know any more about the service than a man on the moon.

The only thing [inaudible 26:28] to him the recruitment that’s all they’ll ever know but I can tell them the whole story and I made it a point to do that.

	W:	Do you have any good story in terms of from your recruiting?





	D:	Yeah, some good situation and some sad ones. Now I made it a point—because I treated everyone the same you know White or Black or whatever—about the pluses, the minuses, anything you should do to progress and then at that time— now when I went into the army they had the old G.I. [General Issue] Bill where I may have been single when I went in so if I get out, get married I can still get the benefits at the married rate but it was nothing like you got today. They call it VEAP is Veterans Education Assistant Program, now under this system the first twelve months you doing a hundred dollar then the government did a matching for it and then depending on the option you enlisted under plus the test scores. Now at the time, for example, at the time I left there in [19]87. I gotta recall here so bear with me. By the time I left there I’m in [19]87, like guy or girl, amass as much as eighty-five thousand dollars cold cash under this program. You better believe I made sure they knew that. So, I would tell them, look do that and do nothing else, even if you don’t stay in the army do that and if you get out—now I realize a lot of people don’t want to go to college. Not that they’re not academically sufficient, just attitudinal then you got all of these vocational programs. Now, for example, let’s say a guy got eighty-five thousand dollars and this is a [inaudible 28:22] here at the…why not get qualified in fifteen, twenty skills, I got the money to do it with. Now, the biggest disappointment was a lot of young brothers wouldn’t take advantage of that. Some would enroll in the program and then withdraw. Sometimes I run across them and some didn’t even finish, well hey did you sign for the VEAP program? “Well…”. I knew then they didn’t do it, so what are you doing now? “I’m looking for a job doing what”. You





had the advantage of the opportunity for this account. So, instead of walking around limited to one skill, you’ll find out half a dozen, two dozen until you use the account up. I was listening to a program yesterday on MSNB, know Al Sharpton and this guy I’ll [inaudible 29:31] but one thing was [inaudible 29:34] he didn’t [inaudible 29:36- 29:38] blah, blah, blah, blah. As a matter of fact, I got two discharge, great that mean you knew all about this stuff and you sitting here bitter but you had the opportunity or you probably still got it, maybe, for this federal assistance program so while you walking around unskilled? That still bugs me man, I got to tell you. So, our job’s an attitude when they come up, get out of my face, get out of my face, don’t want to hear it, there are things you can do. In other words, do what you can do to fix things and we’ve done a poor job of that man, I got to tell you.

	W:	Mr. Davis, would you like to take a break to get you some water? We begin part two of the interview with Mr. Davis. Mr. Davis you were sharing.

	D:	Yeah, I was sharing an experience about the crab theory among Blacks and I just don’t take it lightly. So, while I’m waiting for my order I have them turn around the lobster tank and I noticed these lobsters claws are taped up over the rubber band then a light bulb came on with that crab theory means and I said, okay now crabs are in the crustacean family and so are lobsters…they got them taped up because they would tear each other apart so [Laughter] I just started laughing man people thought I was crazy, they had to. This many years it finally came to light. So, my position under this that’s true but can we afford that, I think not.

What’s it gonna take to weed us out? I’m afraid it’s gonna take a National Guard





and it’s gonna take something about ten times as catastrophic as Katrina was in New Orleans to wake us to that point. In other words, it got to be so frightening, we got to hold each other’s hand. That’s just what I see.

	W:	You know we were speaking previously about you were a recruiter in the army, could you speak about when you did you finally retire and why and what did you do after?

	D:	Well, this what shared prior to retirement, I took the post office exam, the U.S. Customs exam and so I’m already on the qualify list for those. So, I retired on the 31st of July, matter of fact the 31st of this moth will thirty-two years I’ve been retired. So, I just kind of chill out and I dreamed about becoming a business owner which I eventually did so right now I have a food truck, a concession it’s seafood and I’d hope to move from that to a building. So, what I did before I planned to have that started before I retired from the post office after I was in Customs in New Jersey, I hated Newark so I transferred to an agency from the post office—rather from Customs to the post office. So, they had an opening here in Pensacola so I made the transfer with the hope that once I got home well I can hold out for a vacancy where I wanted to be in Customs and then about two weeks after I made the transfer they came up with a federal hiring freeze. You’d call around here “I got nine vacancies but I can’t fill them.” So, I stayed with the post office fifteen and half years so the time in Customs plus that gave me qualifications to retire from the post office which is what I did. Any way y’all are young. I did an experiment with folks about what kind of fish I’m going to be selling, made some samples and gave them free to see what people’s opinion





was. Now I ask the person, do you like it? Would you buy it? “Yeah I’d buy it”. Some people, “Well I don’t eat tartar sauce”. So, I developed a tartar sauce that fit the fish, I said, well try this any way. “You know I like that, I never ate tartar—I didn’t like it before”. What’d you do?” I can’t tell you what I did to it, I just [Laughter]. Some people say, “Why don’t sell if from your truck window as a additional item?” Some guys are like, “You ought put it in a jar and sell it at Walmart”. So, I went around Walmart just looking, Walmart don’t sell anything, they don’t even sell the tartar sauce name brand. They sell all kinds of condiments but that. So, I had one of these portable fryers that you propane tank you hook it up and I set it up front of my truck and people would buy and what I found was the way you make food look in addition to the taste. Now, at the time I was growing up here in Pensacola, Mullet You familiar with Mullet?

	W:	Yes sir



	D:	It was very cheap dish, it was so plentiful you could be driving to Shore and Parkway where you’re going to the bridge and all the sudden the bay was just boiling with Mullet, schools of Mullet. You don’t see that now because pollution and whatever. So, about the time we get a big wash tub full of a bunch of guys and we put our money together and buy the fish, clean it, you know tailor our drink and for our fish but my thing was okay how can I make it taste better, it’s okay but always experimenting with how to make it taste better. So, people like to fish so I set up and then they started saying, “Hey, what other kinds of fish do you have?” Well what you like? So I [inaudible 36:30] the biggest [inaudible 36:32] so I like tilapia so I added tilapia then what [inaudible 36:36] I don’t have it





the room, for all that stuff. Then what other kinds of fish, I tired Basa. Are you familiar with Basa?

	W:	Yes sir.



	D:	Well I developed a recipe for that and tried to get on people, “Well how do you get it to taste like this?” And they were amazed and surprised I was selling for. Then one guy went, “Man, I do you stay in business with fish tasting this good?” But the ingredients didn’t cost that much it’s just how you prepare the stuff. So my grandson and I on work on the truck we were eating the fish, he was like, “This taste different”. You see I noticed that what I did I took one of the ingredients out and I made it fit the tartar sauce fit Basa and then leave the other ingredients to fit Mullet, it worked perfect. Now, you know I got eyes on the property G on [inaudible 37:41] Street across from [inaudible 37:43- 37:47] but any way that’s a big project so to speak as I like to refer to ‘em and I was in the process I had my architecture drawing done then I just need something to be a good fit man, good lord, me and my wife had rotor cuff surgery and she specialized in cakes, special red velvet. I still have people calling the house now, “Were you guys still selling?” I’ll tell them, I don’t take the time to tell them I don’t know [inaudible 38:19] we man if you will. So, people liked the red velvet and she would take orders which the farmer market downtown, we go down there and set up the tent, people buy it and then imagine [inaudible 38:38] we stopped going and some lady, “Where have you guys been I’ve been looking for you” and other things and just call and we’ll take your order so people calling and sometimes she’d be swamped with—especially like the holiday, Christmas, hey baby just tell





them it’s going to take a minute and that’s it. When you reach that quarter you know so I’m still looking forward to doing that. Now, I foresee from that, I foresee either a franchise or just put the building there and do my thing and I’m gonna register with the Travel Bureau, the Tourist Bureau and the Chamber of Commerce. So, that’s still my ultimate dream.

	W:	Yes, so it be a iconic restaurant or iconic food spot in Pensacola area. D:	Mhmm.

	W:	What about your family? I heard you mention your grandson.



	D:	Yeah, I have two daughter and a son. Now, my daughters are ministers, now my older daughter she got a Master’s in…whatever the heck. My younger daughter she’s a Social Work Psychologist. My younger daughter graduated from Florida State, my older daughter—well they both got scholarships, full scholarships basketball. My older daughter University of Alabama and she was the third highest scorer unless somebody broke the record and after she graduated, professional ball was just interested in them. They could only really do—it didn’t catch on in the states but overseas she had two overseas tours and the lady’s six four [Laughter] she did very well. My younger daughter she’s doing well. My son, he’s six eight now his dream is to be a professional basketball player. So, then they wanted a dog I don’t care about dogs, the problem is with the dog. So, we were stationed in Virginia at Fort Lee the housing area. He had a paper out on post he and a dog was running and the dog to his legs, made him trip and he tore ligaments and cartilage and we took him to the emergency room on base and they couldn’t find anything wrong but he was complaining. So, I decided to take





him to an outside doctor, and he came up with the torn ligaments and whatever— I think it was…what was the other thing now? It start with a M.

	W:	MCL [Medial Collateral Ligament]?



	D:	It was within the knee, I can’t remember what but he got active too soon. So, he had a scholarship to Fort Valley in Georgia and he made player of the year but that thing started giving him a fit man. So, he came home in the summer of [19]89 and [inaudible 42:00] a gallon of fluid, turns out it broke his heart man [Laughter]. He finally got over it just took him a long time and so right now he lives in Jacksonville, he’s a finance manager Lucas Honda in Jacksonville. We have eight grandchildren, five great grand, and everything’s been well. So, I’m still looking to make a mark with the restaurant thing.

	W:	Are you going to teach any of your grands the business?



	D:	I will but I don’t believe in forcing people. They see me have the mind and effort—like my two grandsons look, why don’t you guys come in as investors and that’s been about two months ago and I’m not going to push them. You never not told them about I did a sit down and formulate a plan. So, if we do it okay, but if you don’t it’s still alright. I still gonna [inaudible 43:14] for them to do.

	W:	Can you speak about being from here? I’m sure you’ve seen the community evolve over the years. The community as you mentioned earlier in microcosm of society of large. Or how has Pensacola evolved to what it is today?

	D:	Well I’m disappointed because we know what we could be and I know we can. That’s why I say it’s gonna take a act of God so we’re gonna have to depend on each other. It’s like everybody’s going this way and that way, makes us look like





the museum, we should’ve volunteer this ourselves period as far as I’m concerned, and we could’ve done it. Now, Pensacola in 1970, we made the book of war records, you familiar with that?

	W:	Yes



	D:	Now Pensacola has more treasures per capita than all put Black and White all combined and at [19]78 and in the country. Now, we extrapolate Black church out. I would say today that probably about two hundred-fifty Black churches big and small you know old denominations and what have you but look around you I mean look at the condition of us compared to other people. We can do better than that and it’s a big disappoint to me.

	W:	Do you attend one of those churches?



	D:	Yeah, I member of Living Word Holy Church but the only we all need to do, now what I did to make a long story short in [20]04 I had this idea. Now, understand the county here, the 2010 Census sixty-three thousand and ten Black folks and now I realized they’re not all adults but theoretically if you think for a moment, imagine they’re all adults unity would fix every problem ‘cept going to heaven. Never take each one of us in God but for example, my theory was I still ascribe to him. If each one of us donated one dollar and this is what I’m saying, one dollar per month that means you got sixty-three thousand and ten dollars a month times twelve months and it give you seven hundred fifty-six thousand hundred and twenty dollars. Now, we spend more money that I acting a fool. You know lotto of [Laughter] beer, cigarettes, or what have you now I’m not kicking anybody doing it but I’m talking about what we—the potential that we have. We complain about,





well we don’t have affordable housing, now to me that [inaudible 47:04] no one. We can take that same one dollar, we can go purchase a thousand acres on the Internet or whatever, five hundred or whatever. We can take that same dollar, we can build the same house the habitat people build for the same cost we can do the same thing it only cost a buck.

	W:	You know you often hear and speak your thoughts, you often hear as you look at Black communities during segregation were very self-reliant. That dollar circulated within, so that’s sixty-three thousand as a community, still within the community for an extended period of time, what changed from the unity that I’m sure we saw in the [19]60s to—

	D:	And the [19]50s.



	W:	And the [19]50s to— D:	Today?

	W:	To now I mean.



	D:	[Laughter] there nothing to laugh at but I had to laugh. We were just talking about the crab theory remember? Two hundred and fifty churches big and small, now imagine if all these churches came together, okay we’re gonna jump on this band wagon, we’re gonna put this bucket here. Now, the first thing we should do is get justice, we complain about it all the time. In America, justice is a sale to the highest bidder, you got some money guess what? You get some justice, if you don’t have any baby, I’m sorry for you. I don’t approve that, just look at O.J., now the problem O.J. had was stupidity, fourteen carat stupidity. Do you hear what I’m saying?





	W:	Yes sir



	D:	O.J., he never considered himself Black, and that’s alright with me, you can be what you want to be. I’m remember somebody was talking, a writer, [inaudible 49:55] this was talking to O.J., “You Black”. “No, no, I’m not Black, I’m O.J.” Pride in the wrong direction, now to answer your question, we brag about in America all the Black purchasing power equates to some conscious total of GNP?

	W:	GDP? That’s—



	D:	That’s correct but you have to harness it, if you don’t it’s a whole other place. Now, for example, I was talking about justice, if you go to the court house on court days, young Black men especially and it’s sad to say young ladies are catching up fast. Now, the stuff they go to jail for man is stupid! Plain stupid then on the day of your trial, your hearing, you’re gonna—what do you call it, the things the guy wears, I don’t know what you call it—the [inaudible 51:04] the half- saw they got the little pricks.

	W:	Yes, yes.



	D:	I was sawing in half, what you call it? You got a…braids? W:	Locs.

	D:	Yes, [inaudible 51:20] so you come to court in a t-shirt. The t-shirt should be white but sometimes it’s Khaki [Laughter] I’m just, I’m just calling it like I see it man. You got cut off pants or you got the pant the electric tail look, you got the stupid looking tennis shoes. Man, you in court, present yourself for once, living like a human. Most of us can’t afford a attorney, again think about that dollar, so





when they go to court here’s what you got a Public Defender. Who does the Public Defender work for? Really, when you think? Okay Mr. Winchester we’re going to give you an attorney since you can’t afford one, who does the judge work for? So, what I tell people, look do you have a cat at home or a parakeet, or a hamster, or whatever? You can have that thing defend you cause you are going to jail or you are going to wind up in the system, but if they take that dollar like I’m talking about we could fix that. I will assure you that certain stuff wouldn’t even get on the judge’s docket cause they’re going to lose the case and I wouldn’t hire an attorney out of Pensacola, I don’t care how good they are, they still part of the system. With just kind of money, we’re not begging, we’re buying and we’re paying. We should have the best law offices in the nation on retainer, we’re not begging, we’re buying and paying. If we get a problem, I don’t care if the problem is that big or that big, pick up the phone and call of these offices that’s under retention only four questions we should ask what airline are you flying in on? What’s your flight number? What’s your arrival time? How many rooms do you need? How many rental cars you need? That’s all we should be saying, do you hear what I’m saying?

	W:	Yes sir



	D:	That is all we should be saying. Now, [inaudible 54:14]? W:	Yes

	D:	Okay, I’ll remember that. I paused the [inaudible 54:24] the founding president, I said look why don’t I talk to the administers? He said, “Joe [Laughter] you’re wasting your time, if you want to go talk to them, you go ahead but you’re not





gonna get anything out of the administers”. But me, the kind of guy I got to tackle it myself, [inaudible 54:48] and sit there and it’s like talking this [Knocking noise]

…Okay I know when to give but what I did know when to go over there you got five minutes. That’s not enough time for me to introduce myself man. So one of my classmates, he’s a minister man, get me a decent hour to talk to these guys. They’re not giving themselves the opportunity, they don’t know what I’m talking about, he comes back, “Rev. Joe I got you thirty minutes, man”. Well, that’s more than I had, so I was working at the post office and cross the bridge, [inaudible 55:33- 55:35] I told my supervisor, look if I’m more than that away take it out of my annual leave time. So I told the priest, I need to hustle over there, hey my name is Joe Davis, blah, blah, blah. They got thirty minutes of some Joe waving the president, no brother you got [Laughter] you got fifteen minutes. [Laughter] so now I got to adjust what I’m going to tell you guys. So, I preached the topic of housing and justice…I swear to God I realized you’re pushed for time so I’m giving you an invitation to come Movement for change. Recently I’ve had a call that don’t add up, whatever let’s get to know each other and let’s talk, that was in [20]’04, it’s now what year? [Laughter]

	W:	2019



	D:	So, not ready to give up I said okay I found out the [inaudible 56:35] December 18th zero take president, I got the next guy. We got a—well, just come down [inaudible 56:44] and let’s down and talk and let’s get to know each other and this is the thing I want to talk to you about if you don’t agree I can respect that, at least hear what I have to say. Well, [inaudible 56:57] he came I’ll give him credit





for that and, “We’ll I’ll go talk to him but I can’t promise nothing”. I’m not saying make him talk him just tell him to sit down and listen, that’s all and if you don’t agree I respect that. Well Joe, when I got to the third, then the fourth he said, “Well, I can get you twenty minutes but I can tell you up front these yours if not the idea”. [Laughter] when you walk out the door the idea will walk out with you it’s just weird, it’s a weird place [Laughter].

	W:	I mean were they…why do you think they were not interested in what you were trying?

	D:	Me, me, me, me, me see everybody wants to be a chief. Nobody wants you to be Indian…but that’s the only way we’re going to fix ourselves. What is it going to take for us to see that? All the stuff we’re going through, all the turmoil then you got a clown, like we got up there in Washington.

	W:	I forgot…



	D:	[Laughter] exactly, so we complain about housing we can protect that buck, we go buy the land. WE will build that same house the Habitat build. Black contractor, “Well, we can’t word back”. Stop, shut up, you’re going to build these houses Black contractor. Now, if you’re going to build a house from the ground up, what do you think? Name some jobs that it would take to get from the ground up?

	W:	Mason?



	D:	Alright.



	W:	Plumbers?



	D:	Mhmm.





	W:	Electricians?



	D:	Mhmm.



	W:	Carpenters?



	D:	Mhmm.



	W:	Yeah



	D:	Keep going.



	W:	…you know



	D:	A roofer.



	W:	Yes.



	D:	Painters, landscape, what you call it—concrete finisher, on their own. W:	Yeah.

	D:	But my point is, look at how many jobs that we created instantaneously, [inaudible 59:33]. Why I ask [Laughter]…now don’t get me wrong, we know the things that are wrong, we know this. We knew all the time anyway it’s just how we can deal with it. We are going to have to fix our problems ourselves or it’s not gonna happen.

	W:	What role do you see the younger generation? In light of all that they have experienced in their communities and their families, what role do you see the younger generation knowing the interaction between the younger generation and elders in getting to that point of we?

	D:	We have to become pals again first order. We have to become pals again. You mentioned earlier about the [19]40s and the [19]50s, it’s about the family. We did





it before, we can do it again. I would never accept the fact that we can’t do that; we’ve done it before.

	W:	I think we mention being Chappie James Museum, his mother’s coat on the wall, the commandment as she called it, thou shall not quit.

	D:	Alright, I saw that but see we quit being parents okay, it should start in the home to begin with. Now, we as a people in America, we’re the religious you’re ever gonna see. What you think?

	W:	Well, you did mention Pensacola had the Guinness World Book of Records for the amount of churches—

	D:	Per capita



	W:	Per capita



	D:	No, the [inaudible 01:01:43] and parents. You see you is going to raise a child, you cannot be a buddy and go to the same club and all that. You know what I’m saying but I’m thinking [inaudible 01:01:58] let’s say me and my son out and he get a particular discussion, guess what’s going to happen? Blood thicker than water. I’ll probably get drawn into something that I shouldn’t have been drawn into. I mean I’m gonna hurt somebody before they hurt me or him. Now, I taught my son, my son never been jail, he’s fifty-two years old but he tell me today, “Daddy, I appreciate what you taught me”. I wear that with a badge of honor. He has people come in here like he’s their daddy [Laughter] for advice. What I’m getting at, we know their problems, we’re all they have, that ain’t nothing brand new. We know religion or spirituality if you will and it’s place, if we abide you can





get your answers there too. For example, if you go to Romans, second chapter, page one and nine, “God didn’t give me a spirit of feel”. Can you google it?

	W:	I think we can do one better



	D:	Take a look at Romans check in chapter one-nine. I think I got it right… W:	Roman second chapter

	D:	No, no, yeah second chapter…check Roman one and nine first, Roman one and nine … You find it?

	W:	It’s Roman two?



	D:	Let me see…I’m not taking up your time? W:	Uh-uh

	D:	It’s right at the top of everything I say…



	W:	I think I know the scripture of which you are referring to.



	D:	I know it’s in here, lets see, get myself together…wrong book, Timothy, Timothy…I don’t know just need to get the right page… [inaudible 01:06:00] in the contents here somewhere.

	W:	You mentioned, you know you talk about your son thanking you D:	Mhmm…[inaudible 01:06:13]

	W:	You know instilling values as a man…



	D:	Timothy, Timothy, okay…okay Timothy one-seven, seventh verse



	W:	Book Timothy, chapter one, verse seven, “For God has given spirit of fair, power and of love of a sound”.

	D:	Okay now, hold it there, now just think about that. We’re the most religious people in the country, we proclaim to be. If I believe that if fear itself is a spirit, it it





overtakes and we become fear. Cause they’re not killing the spirit of fear. Now I get the spirit of fear and either, unfortunately myself or [inaudible 01:07:38] just for sake of discussion, they call me to adopt spirit of fear. Now, what’s the next thing you gave me after?

	W:	It says, “But of power—”



	D:	Stop right there, now again if I believe in God, see I gotta believe, I gotta be a believer, I can’t be half stepping. Should we proclaim, in which we do, why should I feel helpless if it’s a God given now? What’s the next one?

	W:	“And of love”



	D:	Alright, I think that’s power.



	W:	Yes, but of power and of love and of sound mind



	D:	Yeah, right now since we religious as we claim to be, God is a spirit. God is love we taught all the time that’s spirit. God has power, that’s a spirit. Not being fearful or courageous that’s a spirit. Please [inaudible 01:08:49] God has given me, I’m a true believer. We talk all about what we believe, what’s wrong with this picture [Laughter]. Seriously what’s wrong with this picture

	W:	Yeah.



	D:	Now, I’m asking if all churches taught that…to what we write on our minds in our hearts. I believe we would be unstoppable and it didn’t make any sense.

	W:	Yes, yes sir.



	D:	That’s a lot of people, why are we begging? Why? Always [inaudible 01:09:47] demand this, demand that. You know that means that he made us, same God. At what point did you want more than he owns. He gave us different gifts and





talents, that’s a given in every human being. Go to second Corinthians, I think fifteen, thirty-nine. Hope I’m not wasting your time man [Laughter]

	W:	No sir, this is your time…Second Corinthians.



	D:	Fifteen, chapter fifteen, verse thirty-nine I think I got it right…



W:  No second Corinthians fifteen. Second Corinthians ends at…chapter thirteen. D:  Okay go to first Corinthians 15:39..

W:  Alright, first Corinthians, fifteen and thirty-nine, “All flesh is not the same flesh, but there is one kind of flesh of man, another flesh of animals, another of fish, and another of birds”.

	D:	Mhmm, now what I’m talking about [inaudible 01:11:41] especially White boys, you believe in God? “Oh yeah, I really do!” Do you believe in god, “Yeah!” Okay I got something I want you to read or when you go home write this down, go home a read it, next time I see you and we get together I I want you to tell me what I told you. Now, look at it again carefully…

	W:	“All flesh is not the same flesh, but there is one kind of flesh of man, another flesh of animals, another of fish, and another of birds”.

	D:	Now, there’s only one God, we all can agree with that. When we have one God, he made all the things we see. You take man, you got a Black man, a red man, yellow man but they’re still of a human flesh. Fowls are there, let’s take birds, would you say a parakeet is a bird? Would you say a hummingbird is a bird?

Would you say an eagle is a bird? Or an ostrich is a bird? And so on, see the same flesh. Take a horse, all the animals in the horse family, the camel and so on. Take fish, a goldfish, is it a fish? What about them minnows you find





swimming along side the river? What about a shark? It’s still a fish. Somehow you say you’re superior to men, how? Tell me. Your attitude? That don’t make you superior to me, now this where [inaudible 01:13:47]. Oh you believe in God. “Oh yeah, [inaudible 01:13:53]”. Oh yeah? Okay, I got something to read. Now, how are you superior? See idiots, idiots come in all shapes, colors, and sizes [Laughter].

	W:	Mr. James we—



	D:	I didn’t mean to get off.



	W:	No, no, this is your time and your history and I certainly thank you for taking the time with us today for sharing your depth of wisdom, knowledge and understanding and before we close I would offer you one last question in terms of is there anything you would like to share in closing?

	D:	Yeah, our so called leaders spiritual or whatever, non-spiritual leaders should come together and talk about these kinds of things, formulate a plan, and go for it. We can do this! I have no doubt about—we need to learn to trust each other. See for that one dollar every time they’re not trusting us, that’s why it’s not working. Look at the dollar you spend acting a fool, lot of them or whatever.

Something completely nonconstructive look at what we could do. The same book tell us, a house divide will do what? And I stand, think of us as a house. Think of ourselves as a house. Now, one thought I like to leave, have you’re heard a Jewish person going around saying, “Oh woe is me.” The man this, the man that, now we know they’re aware but do you hear [inaudible 01:16:04] making a preoccupation out of it? If you go to Genesis, eleventh chapter, I think it’s fortieth





verse. The Jews were enslaved in Egypt for four hundred and thirty years, that’s almost [inaudible 01:16:33]. They were doubters [inaudible 01:16:34], “Man, we could stay there easy, you brought us out here to die in the desert [inaudible 01:16:40- 01:16:46] but I mean something catastrophic is gonna have to happen but just imagine what we could do, we could harness [inaudible 01:17:00] spirit of love, spirit of power, [inaudible 01:17:05]. If we have the spirit of love, we wouldn’t be killing each other about nothing like we do. We kill each other about nothing but you got a Jewish guy go, “Well we were slaves for four-hundred”.

Hey, man slavery happened, it did that’s the history of it, but you don’t let that make you cripple. You don’t wear it like an anchor. Now, we lost something, yeah, one of the biggest things we lost was identity. Every Jewish guy, green, Black, or whatever his name is, he still got that identity. Davis is a slave name, that’s what the master said, I understand that. Now, I got to go die because of that. Am I going to cease the power God gave me, we just read in…Timothy one- seven? Power, love, [inaudible 01:18:14]. Now, if I got to sign mine then am I stupid? I forgot to ask? God help us [Laughter] so anyway I found me [inaudible 01:18:33]. When I was a recruiter, “Well why should I fight man?” Okay son, do you have a job? “Well—“. Look here now, where do you go to when you look for a job? I remember one day in Connecticut I was ripping on fellas on the corner, “Why should fight for them?” Okay, I ask them the same question they go in asking, y’all jealous? If you get one, where do you go? “Well, I go to—“. Oh yeah, who owns that, first of all we could own the same thing you just saw. So, I just so happen as truck show on the corner back then a jet cost a dollar and ten, so here





go buy a Jet Magazine and bring it back. He went and brought it back, I said, I won’t make it through the first page, count the name from old man Johnson to the last person and tell me how many names you know. He count thirty-four, check your count, he said, “Okay, thirty-three”. Now, I’ll tell you what I’ll do for you I’ll give you a hundred dollar right now if you go and name a Black company in America, it could be in the community or in the entire country, I got hundreds of them in a day or a week. I’ll give you a hundred dollars or better yet I’ll give you ninety days, you can pick anybody you want to help you, I’m gonna give you six hundred dollars. [inaudible 01:20:07]. “Aw man he done blown my mind”. And you guys be thinking about—I’m trying to show you guys where it’s at, where you are and the final thing I’ll leave with I would rather see you in a military uniform compared to being a prison uniform, Any day! Nine times out of ten you’re in for something stupid. It’s plain stupid [Laughter].

	W:	Well, Mr. Davis I thank you for your wisdom and your insight. D:	Thank you for listening.

	W:	And may your voice continue to inspire as it has inspired me and I thank you. D:	Thank you.

	W:	Thank you sir.



	D:	Thank you for this, [End of interview]





	Transcribed by	Omar Sanchez, February 12, 2021 Audit-edited by:	Kasamba Kokayi March 17th, 2021





	Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, March 17, 2021