AAHP 073; Bell; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 073 Diana Bell

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Matthew White on June 12, 2009

32 minutes | 19 pages



Abstract: Diana Bell was born in Daytona Beach, and attended Daytona Beach Junior College. She then transferred to the University of Florida for her undergraduate degree in English Education from 1967-1969, and came back to receive her master’s in Special Education in 1971 after seeing emerging need to educate special needs students, and completed her education a year later. She describes school in the 1960s as turbulent, with social unrest, drug culture, and Civil Rights. At UF, she was excluded from the sororities and had no invitations to join organizations. She helped establish the first Black Student Union, which brought in important Black speakers to campus, such as Muhammad Ali. She also discusses the sit-in at Tigert Hall, and the difficulties in wanting to participate in demonstrations but being too afraid to get thrown out of school and disappoint her parents. Finally, she talks about social changes at UF through her children’s eyes.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]



































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 073

Interviewee: Diana Bell Interviewer: Matthew White Date: September 5, 2009



	W:	All right, I’m going to pull up a little closer. And we are recording. If you could you repeat for me your name?

	B:	Diana Clifton Bell.



	W:	Okay. And when did you attend the University of Florida?



	B:	I attended the University of Florida from 1967 to 1969 as undergrad. And I returned in [19]71, received a master’s in [19]72.

	W:	Okay, in what subjects?



B:  As an undergrad, I majored in Language Arts—English, as we called it then— Education, and my master’s program involved Special Education. I received a master’s in Mental Retardation.

	W:	Okay. So, could one assume, then, that you worked with the Education school? B:	Yes. [inaudible 0:51] teacher.

	W:	Okay. And where were you from when you went to school? We’ll start with that. B:	I’m from Daytona Beach, Florida.

	W:	Do you still live there? B:	Yes.

	W:	And you went right back to Daytona Beach.



	B:	I didn’t go back immediately, but eventually I went back.



	W:	And you could first of all, in sort of a general way, reflect on your experiences at UF. It sounds like you were here for—I didn’t do the math in my head; about four years, sounds standard.





	B:	Yes. I got my—well, I did my undergrad—well, I came here as a junior college transfer.

	W:	Oh, okay. From where?



	B:	From Daytona Beach. I went to Daytona Beach Junior College at the time. I came here as a junior in [19]67, and I graduated in [19]69.

	W:	Okay. Now, that strikes me as an American generalist, that’s a very interesting time in American educational history for colleges. What were your experiences here at UF, both as part of the general population, but also as an African American student?

	B:	In general, the late [19]60s was a very, shall I say turbulent time in our history? A time of social unrest, a lot with the new era of thinking in terms of the whole free love scene, and the drug culture, and of course Civil Rights was a very big thing for me, being an African American—and in fact for the country, because it meant a lot of changes, and a great challenge for the country.

	W:	Now, what activities—now, that’s America, but what activities were here at University of Florida?

	B:	Well, at the University of Florida, there were a lot of activities, most of which I felt excluded from?

	W:	Give me an example.



	B:	The sororities. And just, there were no organizations that I received invitations to join. But I really wasn’t worried about it. And I didn’t seek to join. I think I was a little bit sensitive, and I felt like, “Okay, you’re going there, you going to get an education, and you’re not going to really worry about pushing the envelope.” You





know, just do what you have to do. But I must say, it was a very pleasant experience for me. I came as the daughter of two parents who had not finished high school. And I was the oldest in my family. And I had relatives here, and I was happy to be here.

	W:	Relatives in Gainesville?



	B:	Yes, and I was happy to be here. So. You know, even though I felt like things were not exactly open to me, I was not unhappy about it. I was a member of a very small group of Black students that were here at the time, and we set about creating a place for ourselves. And we established the first Black Student Union in my junior year, my first year here. And that was something that I became very involved in, bringing national Black figures here to speak to the city and students about issues that were coming up.

	W:	Do you remember any of them, the names, the—?



	B:	Adam Clayton Powell. And I believe Muhammad Ali. I believe I remember him coming. He was just getting started with the boxing and everything.

	W:	That was an interesting time for his life, too. B:	Yes, yes. Yes, it was fascinating.

	W:	Was he an interesting—?



	B:	He was pretty. [Laughter] And he was talking to— W:	Yeah; full disclosure, he’s one of my favorite people.

	B:	Yeah. Yeah, and at the time, he hadn’t become really known for his defiance of the things that he saw as immoral. But he was just starting his career. He was loud, and he was promoting himself. But he was still a figure that was saying





something, and someone that you wanted to know, “What is this person all about?” But I think Adam Clayton Powell was the most prominent person that I remember. So I think I was more of a warrior on the campus scene in terms of all the things that were happening, the sit-in at Tigert Hall, the takeover of Tigert Hall by the Black students my senior—

	W:	Now, I’ve heard of that. B:	—my senior year.

	W:	What was that all about?



	B:	Well, they felt that Tigert was not responsive to the needs of Black students. And so, they were going to sit in until certain demands were made. And I don’t remember exactly what all the demands were, but I believe that establishing Black culture courses—I think that was a part of the demand, to have some Black history, or African—

	W:	And you didn’t participate in that.



	B:	I didn’t participate. And that was heavy on my mind, because I was not—of course I was sympathetic. But by the same token, I felt like I couldn’t afford to put myself in a position to be thrown out of school, because so much was riding on me in terms of my family’s expectations. And so it was hard, it was hard for me. It was very hard.

	W:	Now that’s, on a social level that’s interesting. What about scholastically? What was it like to come to University of Florida as either a general or an African American student?





	B:	Well, before I came, I received a lot of scary stories about how, “Oh, the courses are so hard; you’re not prepared; you’re going to fail; blah blah blah blah blah blah.” But I had come from a segregated school. The whole system from grade one through twelve, I’d been with only Black kids. I had gone to junior college, where I was always the only Black student in there, but I had been raised in that segregated situation to think that I was very special. And that I was the cat’s meow, that I was somebody! [Laughter] And so, I really didn’t feel intimidated by what I was told. And I said—

	W:	Now, who was telling you this?



	B:	Just other Black people, people in general. And I don’t know where they received their information from, but they felt like—well they felt like, okay, they felt like my education was inferior because it was separate. And used to get the old books, and really not a lot of financial support—not as much in terms of materials and all that as the predominantly White schools. So therefore, everyone concluded that the education was inferior.

	W:	But this was Black students telling you this.



	B:	These were mostly Black people telling me this. W:	What about the teachers?

	B:	The teachers always told me I could do whatever I wanted to do. But people just in the community felt like, “Oh, okay”—and I think they basically felt that because it was an all-White institution—that when I went in, I would be ostracized, I would be treated negatively, I would fail, I couldn’t measure up. But I never bought into it. And I said, “Well, we’ll see.” And so, when I came, I really came with a lot of





confidence, and I never had any problems whatsoever. And even though I didn’t feel a part of the social scene after class—like I said, it didn’t really bother me, although I could see it—I did fine in my classes. I wasn’t the A student, but then, I didn’t work as hard as I could have. I did a little bit more partying than I should have, you know? [Laughter] So I did, I did pretty well, and I enjoyed my stay. And I was close to home, I could go home whenever I wanted. I had family in the community, so I could visit them as much as I wanted. And it was a fine mix for me. Now, there’s something that I experienced that I think was unique to my generation: the housing situation. In the dormitory, there were three of us, Black girls, in Rawlings Hall. One girl disclaimed being Black—well, she say she was a Puerto Rican. So we said, “Okay.” So, we used to call her the Black Puerto Rican. But that was an inside joke. My roommate, who at first had her own room and I had my own room—we didn’t have roommates; all the other girls had roommates. But at first, we were all separate. The girl from Ocala, Frankie Crosskey and I, met and decided we were going to become roommates. And so, second semester, we petitioned to live together. And so, we did, for that first year. Okay, in the dormitory, no boys could come upstairs. They could only meet you downstairs in the reception area. So, you had a buzzer. And they would buzz your room, and tell you that such and such was down for you in the lobby. So you’d have to walk down and receive them there, and if you went off, fine. If you went off-campus, you had to be back by, I believe it was twelve o’clock. If you weren’t going to come back, you had to sign out to some place in particular. That was my junior year. My senior year, seniors were given a key. That was first an





experimental year where they were given a key. They could come in any time they wanted, and they could let themselves in the locked dormitory with their key, but they could not let anyone else in with their key. So, that’s when they first started to experiment with giving more freedom. If you were a junior, you still had to check out, and you used to had to otherwise be in by twelve. I’m not sure when they stopped that, because I graduated in [19]69. And you know, when I came back, I wasn’t in the dormitories. But I think that was kind of unique, because when my daughter was here in, she came in [19]91, graduated in [19]95, the boys could come in; I know there were boys that spent the night. I can remember going into the restroom, and boy meeting me coming out, and I’m going, “Whoa!” [Laughter]

	W:	A lot of changes between 1969 and 1990.



	B:	A lot of changes, very co-ed, very co-ed! So that was, like, shocking to me. That was really interesting.

	W:	Now, that brings up an interesting topic. You left for a few years and came back as a graduate student. Did you notice any differences, any changes, any evolution at all on campus?

	B:	Well see, as a graduate student, you’re in a different world. I was not in touch with people who lived in dormitories, or really in touch with anyone that wasn’t in my department. And so, I was married by then, and just living in a different world altogether.

	W:	Part time, full time?





	B:	I was full time, because I had been a teacher for two years, and I came back that third year deciding that I needed more to teach the students that I had. Because in English education we’d been given an approach to teaching that worked very well with bright students, but more and more special needs students were emerging, and I felt like, “Okay, I need something else.”

	W:	Now, let me back up here: when you said they worked with—did you say “White” or “right?”

	B:	I didn’t say “White.”



	W:	Oh, I’m sorry. You said, methods that worked some kind of student— B:	Oh, special needs.

	W:	But before that, they worked for— B:	Oh, bright!

	W:	Oh, bright! I’m sorry! [Laughter] B:	Bright students. Bright students. W:	My apologies.

	B:	Right. You know, analyzing poems, a lot of analytical kind of thing; and composition through analysis of character themes and that kind of stuff, which you still, it’s still doing in schools. But there are different stratas of kids that had needs that were different from that. And I said, “Okay, what can I do to empower myself to gain additional skills to reach these students who are not there, but who are showing up in my class every day?” And so, I got the idea to go back get a degree in Special Education. And so, that’s what I received my master’s in. And so, I don’t really know what the setting was.





	W:	So you weren’t involved in the Black Student Union, or—



	B:	No, not at that point. It was just, deal with my husband, and deal with my courses, and that was my focus. You know?

	W:	Let’s back up a little bit: you were talking about your parents, and they hadn’t even graduated—

	B:	High school.



	W:	High school. So if I could ask you to go back a little bit and talk about your home life or early schooling; so, that’s a huge decision to be the first. First family member to go to college.

	B:	Right, right. In my immediate family. However, I had three aunts who were teachers. And so, they motivated me—and my mom. Because my mom was a very smart lady despite the fact that she didn’t finish high school. Hers was more of—she got married early. My dad came back from the war, and she was being raised by her grandparents, and she felt like, “Okay, I need to make some money to take of myself.” Because it was hard times for the family in general. And my father came back from the war, and they fell in love, and they got married. And so, when he came from the war, he wanted a trade. Then, that was the big thing in Black families for the men to get trades, because they—being a brick mason, or a carpenter and all that, paid some pretty good money. And so, my father went to Bethune-Cookman College Trade School on the GI Bill. And so, he became a brick mason, and later a subcontractor. So for thirty-eight years, he built houses. But my mom worked for a prominent White family in town, keeping their house and their children. And so you know they made a very modest living. They built





our home. I was one of four children. They really preached education to all of us; however, I was the only one that went to college. I thought I would be the beginning, but somewhere along the way, the others didn’t take to it. I’ve always been highly motivated for education—

	W:	It sounds like it.



	B:	Yes. And I excelled coming through the different grades, and it just seemed like the normal progression for me. So.

	W:	So, you mentioned that you were the only Black student in your junior college— classes, is that correct?

	B:	Classes.



	W:	Class. So were the teachers encouraging to go on to—?



	B:	No, the teachers didn’t say anything to me personal. It was just, they taught their course. They didn’t say anything good or bad, just taught the content. And so, my reinforcement pretty much came from my family. And my teachers through the years always told me I was special, always told me I was smart. I was an honors student, honor society, I was in the campus leadership, was a part of the band as one of those little flag girl sort of things, kind of a half-majorette, half-flag girl—

	W:	Here at UF?



B:  No, no, no, that— W:  It’s junior high.

B:   No, that was in high school. So I was involved with a lot things that gave me a lot of self-assurance. And so, I think that helped me to come here and just deal with the way things were. And I love this place—I love Florida, I’m a Gator all the way.





	W:	So, let me ask this: what led you to come the University of Florida? What was your decision-making there?

	B:	At first, I was thinking of going to Dillard in New Orleans, which is a Black school.



	Purely because I wanted to go to Mardi Gras. [Laughter] W:	You mentioned the partying.

	B:	From the pictures of Mardi Gras. And my parents didn’t know, I don’t think so. W:	Why not?

	B:	Well, they said, “That’s too far away, we don’t have the money to support you in that. We can’t bring you home for the holidays. It’s too far for us to send for you if there’s an emergency, whatever. We think it’s better if you go to junior college.

And then, when you go to junior college, then you can go to one of the state schools, and that will be better for you and for us.” So, after really putting up a big fuss, I lost. [Laughter]

	W:	It’s probably just as well.



	B:	Well, and you know what? I’m happy about it, because I just got a really good experience at Florida. I have no regrets. It’s good.

	W:	Did you consider any historically-Black colleges in Florida?



	B:	No—well, let’s see. Well, I’m from Daytona, so there’s Bethune-Cookman there.



But very few kids want to go school in their home town. I wanted to get out of town, so. And I don’t know, Florida A&M never interested me, although my friends went to Florida A&M, a lot of them went to Bethune, some of them went to, like, Spelman, and different colleges in Atlanta and Tennessee and all those things, but I, you know; no. I didn’t consider any of them. But once I got, I was





settled on the idea of junior college, and I said, “Hey, if I go to junior college,” I figured out, then I can go to UF or FSU as a transfer student. So I said, “Okay, that’s good.” I knew that my aunt was over here, so I knew that my aunt was over here. And I said, “Okay, that’s close to home, so they can’t say anything about, ‘Oh, we can’t get you home,’ because I can catch a ride home.” And in fact, many times I did. I caught rides with people. There was a board in the student union building where they could post, “I’m going such and such, anybody want a ride?” And I would go and look on that board, and it worked out. And I met people who were from Daytona I never knew, but I had made their acquaintance. And it turned out to be a win-win deal. Later on, some of my teachers came over here for a master’s, and I would go home with them—you know, in my senior year. So, it was good.

	W:	Sounds nice.



	B:	So my daughter, when she was a baby, I always—I brainwashed her into being a Gator. Because all she ever heard—I married someone here locally, but divorced early in her life. But she came over her constantly for different holidays in the summer, and she would always be brought out here to Gator stuff. And she has a cousin who’s a cheerleader: Robin Griffin, who was a cheerleader in the [19]80s. Went here, got a degree from here. Would bring her out here. And her father would bring her out here to watch the scrimmages and all that kind of stuff. So she was a Gator way before she was really had a chance to—! [Laughter]

	W:	She didn’t have a chance. [Laughter] B:	No, she didn’t have a chance.





	W:	And did she enjoy her stay here?



	B:	Yes, she had a very different experience. She enjoyed it.



	W:	I was going to ask you; did you guys have a chance to talk about the different, your experiences here at UF? And the changes? Aside from boys in the restroom?

	B:	Well, she felt like, honest to goodness, that the system was hostile. She said they out to flunk you day one!

	W:	Was that because she’s Black, or just because that’s the way teachers always treat students?

	B:	Not because she was Black, but because they’re trying to weed people out. W:	What was her major?

	B:	Well, when she first came, she was thinking about Business. Then it was Physical Therapy. She finally majored in Speech Pathology. Turned out to be a very good choice. Very good choice. Next week, she’s opening her own clinic.

	W:	Oh, good for her!



	B:	So, that was very productive.



	W:	Right. But she found the teachers hostile.



	B:	It wasn’t that this one per se, it’s the system. The system. She said it’s very cold. Cold and impersonal. It’s, like, set up to knock so many kids out, you know, the freshman year. Weed it down so that by the time they have to choose a college, they have fewer people to deal with. But she found it an unfriendly system. But, you know, she prospered. She did fine. She got her bachelor’s. She just started to get over the fact that she was not admitted to grad school. She was really





POed about that. She said, “I’m one of their own. I didn’t come here from someplace else. I came here as a freshman. I duked it out that whole time, got my degree; I should’ve been given priority, not somebody from Kalamazoo.” And I don’t know, I think they have reasons for letting other people in, and sending most of their kids other places. I’m not sure what it’s all about, but it was a very uneasy time. But she received her master’s from Howard University, which is a Black school. And a very good school.

	W:	Yeah, I’m from the D.C.-Baltimore area, so I’m familiar with Howard.



	B:	And what I said to her was, it was divine intervention. It was your opportunity to see the best of both worlds, and you’re the better for it. She said it was a different atmosphere there. It was a more loving atmosphere, it was a smaller, just warm, “I’ll help you,” fuzzy kind of thing.

	W:	Well, you’re in the big city.



	B:	Right. But, she said, “If you can make it at Florida, you can make it anywhere.” Because she said you’re on your own at Florida! [Laughter] So, I said it was just in preparation for what you needed to do in graduate school, which was to work all day for a grade and then go to classes at night. And so, she did well. She’s had managerial jobs, she was able to move all about the country, working with the geriatric populations—which is what she prefers, but she could work at schools or whatever. A year ago, she and two other ladies formed a company for speech and language services, and so they’re opening their clinic after one year, this week.

	W:	Congratulations to her.





	B:	And they’ve really extended their clientele to early intervention, geriatric, as well as schools. So.

	W:	Just to move to the social area, you said that you felt—I forget your exact words, but you said something about, no one invited you join anything, it was very cold socially. Did she notice anything different when she was here, some thirty-some- odd years later?

	B:	She really didn’t comment on it, but she never said that she was invited to join anything. And I don’t think she did join anything. It was basically going to class. She got a job, she worked at the library. Same thing that I did, worked in the library. At one point she was working at—I don’t know, maybe working for SGA or something in the reception area. Worked different little jobs along the way.

But, she didn’t make a comment.



	W:	Okay. Well, I’m pretty much done. You’ve covered all my questions, even without me asking them, so that’s a beautiful thing. So, if you have anything else you maybe wanted to mention here about your life at Florida, or your involvement with this organization?

	B:	The only thing, I’ve been a little POed, and I’m not exactly sure who to aim it at.



But, okay: this is my third year coming to this particular activity, but when announcements or when the cards are sent out about it, they send them to my daughter.

	W:	In your name?



	B:	No, they just send them to my daughter. Because she was a student here, too. It’s like they don’t know I’m living. And every year, I fill out some papers, and I’m





saying, “Okay, what’s going on here? Is somebody asleep on the job?” And then, also, I found out that the College of Education had some kind of activity at the president’s house yesterday. I received no notice about that, and both of my degrees are in Education. And my niece received one, the one that was a former cheerleader. And my friend received another notice for October, for Homecoming, about some other activity. And I’m going, “Okay, I know they have my name somewhere, because they send me the publications and other things. So, what is the deal?”

	W:	Gee, I don’t know. I don’t know much about the organization but that’s certainly something you need to look into.

	B:	Yeah. So, I need to get to the bottom of that.



	W:	That’s one of the drawbacks of a big school. A lot of paperwork.



	B:	One other thing that concerns me: the number of friends that I know that—and people that I met—that say, “I’m a Florida graduate, I’m a Gator,” but they don’t come here. They don’t do this. They don’t—I realize getting a ticket to the game is hard, but they don’t try to come back to the university. And I don’t quite understand what the dynamics—.

	W:	Do you mean as part of the Association of Black Alumni, or just in general as active alumni?

	B:	In general, as anything. And, I don’t know. When I talk to some of them, some of them express the feeling of maybe being maybe ostracized or left out. And, “Yeah, I went to school there, but I don’t see anything—.” Whatever. I don’t know, I don’t understand that because you know, I went to school there, too; and even





though I didn’t belong to a club and stuff, I still know that I’m a Gator. And I still love being in Gainesville, I love being on campus, and I think about all the happy things that happened to me there. And did somebody beat you across the head, or hurt your feelings or something? But I don’t know. It’s some kind of feeling, and I don’t know how to get—

	W:	Yeah. Some people are just affected it differently. Or not affected.



	B:	Right. And so, it saddens me, because I look around and say, “Okay, where are the people from my generation? I’d like to see them.” I’ve even tried to find some of them on Facebook. I found one guy, and just as I started a little dialog with him, all of the sudden the curtains came down. I don’t know if his wife, or I don’t know what happened; but all of the sudden, I started to see more details about the family. I say, “Okay, that’s fine. All I want to know is, have you talked to So- and-so? Have you seen any of our old crowd?” But I didn’t get too far on that.

	W:	It can be a hit and miss. I’m on Facebook, too. I get in touch with people I haven’t seen since high school.

	B:	Yeah, that’s the beauty of it! And I was saying, “Oh, boy! Now I can find out what happened to all of those guys.” But you know, one guy that was very active socially here, I found him at the University of California at Northridge; he’s a professor there. He’s a very—he’s a social activist. And I found him, emailed him, called him; he called me back. We had about a three hour conversation on the phone one day, and then I never heard from him again. I tried to beep him again, say, “Okay.” Because I keep saying, “You don’t come to the reunions; come to





the reunions.” But it’s been a few months now, and I haven’t heard from him, so. I don’t know.

	W:	Well, thank you very much. I’m going to go ahead and stop this. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Richard Brust, Sept. 24, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, August 16, 2017 Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019