AAHP 519B; Imani; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 519B Dr. Nikitah Okembe-Ra Imani Interviewed by Daniela Lopez on April 9,2018 1 hour 24 minutes | 44 pages



Abstract: Dr. Nikitah Okembe-Ra Imani is one of the founding member of the Loyal 99. In this interview Dr. Imani talks more in-depth about the Loyal 99 and some demonstrations that the engaged in around campus. Within this interview, he talks about his experiences within the University of Florida and how he had to fight for his Black identity to be acknowledged on the campus. He also talks about how the Black Student Union morphed into more of a Black Awareness movement on campus and how the movement had more engagement with people of color on campus. The movement was also involved in fighting for more equality on campus as well



Keywords: [African American History; The Loyal 99, University of Florida; Black Student Union, Black Awareness Movement]



AAHP 519B

Interviewee: Nikitah Okembe-RA Imani Interviewer: Daniela Lopez

Date: April 25, 2018



	L:	First let me start off by saying this is Daniela Lopez with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Today is April 9th, 2018 and I am talking to Dr. Nikitah Imani.

Hey, Dr. Imani!



	I:	Hello!



	L:	I’ve been listening back to your interview and other interviews with other members of the 99. I remembered you mentioning why you and Dr. Padgett decided to form the 99. So, can you go into detail from being an idea to actually mobilizing and gathering the individuals who would do this sort of action?

	I:	I guess the organization wasn’t created for the particular action for what it is somewhat famous. The organization was created to pursue a wide variety of issues in the community. The name actually came from the notion that by 1999, which we were well ahead of that at the time, that if certain critical things did not happen in the African-American community, African Diaspora community that it would not survive. That meant that there were a number of things that had to happen with relationships with law enforcement, education, economics, politics, and so the idea of the 99 was to try to meet that trajectory, to meet that deadline, if you will, of 1999. If we haven’t completed those things, at least begin to move in that direction. The target was obviously college students like ourselves because youth and college students in particular are in a unique position to be able to do social activism without all the consequences of adults, as well as not having as many obligations and so much of their activism can be tied into their





educational experience that they can be better facilitators towards their activism. It is not an accident that most of the Black panthers- the initial core- were graduate students. That was the second inspiration. I was a junior panther. I was inspired by the panthers both in terms of the organizational structure as well as their capacity to build coalitions with different groups and their economic, social and political agenda, in particular, their ten point plan, which was an important part of what we wanted to pursue on a micro level even though they pursued it on a macro level. That was kind of in my head. One of the things I have always said about myself and Dr. Padgett is that I would be the visionary on our team and he’s the pragmatist. We were always able to work together and I would have the big picture, the big schema of what I am trying to deliver and get across and he would have an operational template for getting it done. We actually started the organization at the University of Florida by setting up informational tables. They were really just community education tables with books, films, and other things related to the Africana experience, Black power ideology, and so forth. We would set up a table like many other groups would do and we would just solicit people as they were going by. It became a bigger thing as people began not only stop by and get the information. We started to do film festivals on campus and in convenient locations off campus. We started getting questions from people, some of whom were supporters and some of whom were not. We went to great length to answer those questions and deal with those things. In many ways, it was a perfect storm because as we got started there was a kind of right wing backlash in Florida going on in Florida at the time- much like you have in the





whole country right now. You have the same thing. You have police brutality starting to rise up. You had economic dislocation rising in the community. You have a lot of the conditions that you have right now that were going on then. We were the perfect thing- just like the Panthers were- we weren’t aware of it at the time, but we were perfect for the moment that was starting to begin in Florida.

Other chapters began to spring up with our model. We were kind of a loose confederation in that each campus had its own leaders and time to time we would visit some of those campuses to consult. For the most part, they were just copying the model and our main efforts were at our home university, but we certainly give advice, guidance, and make suggestions when we were consulted and asked.

	L:	You mentioned that you guys would table, Correct? I:	Yes.

	L:	Where would you guys be tabling?



	I:	Open areas on campus. In the vicinity of the “Red Square” we called it. A lot of the areas right there in front of the Arts and Sciences. Sometimes over in the Plaza of the Americas depending on the day… Sometimes we were out there with other organizations as part of things the University would be doing in general and sometimes it would be more specific things. We started having rallies on specific observance days, like Malcolm X day. We started having a rally every year. We would have a Columbus Day observance, where we would actually conduct a funeral for all the indigenous and Latino and Africans who were the





victims of Columbus and the results of the discovery. We would park the actual hearse and bring the coffin out-

	L:	Oh yeah! I heard about the casket!



	I:	[Laughs] We were very much into- it was a combination of scholarship and we would bring real scholarly presentations. We also practiced disruption and disruption often has a negative connotation, but our notion was constructed disruption is that when we would be dealing with classes or scenarios where things were being taken for granted, we would show up. Just our presence was enough of a disruption that would provide a counterpoint to those instances. An example of disruptive activity would be the funeral because you don’t expect to see a full funeral with mourners dressed in black in the middle of campus in the middle of the day. That was exactly our thing! That was exactly the point. You didn’t expect this in the same way that indigenous people didn’t expect this invasion by Europeans and so forth. We wanted to disrupt the granted day to day life of the community and the campus and draw attention to these issues of social justice and equalities.

	L:	These demonstrations would you say they were radical in anyway?



	I:	I mean it depends on who’s doing the defining. I go back to what Dr. King said and the Letter from Birmingham Jail. They called him a radical and I imagine if you are a person who argues that you should never, ever break the law even if the law is unjust, then he was a radical. If you are a person who believes in gradualism and that you are supposed to sit there and tolerate social injustice





and perpetuity until those in power figure it out, then I guess that’s radical! I am an ordained minister, I am a follower of the Lord, and so my notion is that the Lord was extremely radical. He went places and he walked into people’s lives and said controversial things for his time. He considered a subversive by the Romans and later a subversive by the Jewish leaders of his time. My point is that I don’t know of any social justice struggle that wasn’t disruptive and I also don’t know of any social justice struggle that ever went anywhere that didn’t involve on someone else on the opposite side of the equation that didn’t think it was radical. I don’t consider radial a negative term. I say if I use the word radical I think of it on the chemical sense of free radical- and free radicals make things happen as a catalyst! If you are going to call me a radical, call me a free radical because I’m that element that floats in the mix that makes things happen. I am the agitator in the washing machine. If you think about it, your clothes would never get clean if you just dropped the dirty clothes in water and poured some detergent and nothing happened. It is the friction, the agitation that part that turns and rips everything it touches. Hopefully, it doesn’t tear your clothes but it does throw them around. It’s that throwing it around and that disruption that gets your clothes clean. Sometimes we need agitators in society.

	L:	You mentioned that sometimes you would do certain demonstrations. I have been trying to find some resources that document that what you guys have done. Is there any reason you feel like there is not a lot of documentation from certain news outlets…?





	I:	Not really. The Alligator was intimately involved in a lot of what we were doing. I have a lot of my own collections of stuff is from the Alligator. There would be particular things on campus you would get more coverage. The Gainesville Iguana has even a larger archive of stuff because they were officials of the Iguana who were involved in our organization or whatever. For example, there were members of the Iguana who were actually imbedded in the demonstrations associated with the Black History month. They were getting it firsthand. I always thought it was useful- my philosophy towards the press is that you use the press, you don’t allow the press to use you. I probably have to take some responsibility for not always not having press coverage because I don’t think press-coverage is good. I am more interested in action that transforms the minds of the community and creates institutions and does stuff. I think sometimes people are press- chasers in the same way that lawyers can be emulous chasers. I was one of those people where we would release statements to the press if they asked us for something, but in our organization-much like the panthers- we had a rotating leadership where we didn’t identify any one person as a leader and we didn’t always respond to press inquiries unless we thought it was constructive for what we were doing. Sometimes the press didn’t publish certain things because they didn’t know certain things. The policy and the panthers were information on a need to know basis. My thing was if the press needs to know when we were having a rally, we would publicize that and send out press releases and whatever and of course, they had the discretion to advertise it or not. We weren’t always the most press friendly because I never saw the press as a friend to oppressed





communities. I don’t believe the press in the United States is a friend to a press community. I think there are independent publications, like the Iguana and so forth that do an important service. Now you have much more television and radio, but we were still in a predominately press era when we came on. We probably would’ve been using that more extensively if it had been available at the time. I think that the reason we didn’t have a lot of press is that the little press that we got from main stream press things were always wrong and always negative. That tended to be that if you asked most people their image of the Panthers or their image of anything that is trying to change the community through social change, if you go to the mainstream press it tends to be negative because the main stream press represents the economic and social interests of the elite. If you are trying to deconstruct the elite or challenge the elite, then they control the press and they control the image that you are going to get. You’re probably better off saying to them as little as possible. I think one of the reasons that many social movements and efforts don’t go very well in a community is because we have too many so-called leaders that chase cameras and don’t realize that you live and die by the soundbites and whatever comes out of the cameras. Sometimes you get so focused on press conferences and cameras and all of this stuff, that you don’t actually get to the word. One of the things I’m proud about the 99 is that we did a whole lot of work in a very short period of time with the limited number of people. That would’ve been impossible if we were all chasing cameras.

	L:	I also noticed that you had mentioned that you guys did a lot of work just not on campus, but also helping off campus communities.





	I:	Lots of it, yeah.



	L:	To what degree do you guys feel like you were able to help off campus and also were there any other sorts of groups or individuals that were very helpful to you guys that were off campus?

	I:	Oh yeah! Back then, the community- there was a historic what was called the fifth avenue community. There was just so many people there. There was a restaurant called mom’s kitchen which was one of our hangouts. We had a social club that we would frequent and organize things at, it was called the Village Traffic. A lot of these places are gone now, but there were so many places that we met and we organized at. I remembered there was a 7/11 right across form campus that was an important sight for a lot of organization. There were just constant people, people of liberal minds, people behind the civic media center. At the time, that had not been organized. It was coming into being. A lot of those people were connected to us or aware of our activities. We had just so many people in the community- especially elders in the community who were just glad to see somebody do something. One of the things that is true in the community is that you have a lot of elders who were activists whether it was the civil rights movement or the Black power movement. You have a lot of those people and they want to see something happen! They are very supportive if something goes on, but they tended to see youth as apathetic. My own philosophy to that you have to do the mentoring piece if you want the youth to get involved, so a lot fo what we did was also youth mentoring and stuff. We set up community defense patrols in the Fifth avenue community and the community was really impressed





with that because we always argued that we could police ourselves. One of the ways-and I actually continue to try and promote and develop those ideas- it’s my belief that if a community relies on an external force to police itself, then it will always lead to a problem because you bring in outsiders that don’t have the best interest in the community. They don’t know the community, they don’t necessarily have the best interest of the community in mind. I did a study and it occurred to me that most incidents that involved an African-American, Latino, Native American communities- most of these are internal community incidents. They are things that you and I as community members end up don’t handle for ourselves. We end up bringing in the police or the police end up being forced to be called in. My notion is that if we police that internally, then the police don’t have to come.

One of the things we were most impressed about is the minute that we set up our community defense thing, we introduced ourselves to the community, knew we were out there, they respected us. People who would normally do drugs stopped that activity, gang members didn’t engage in any kind of negative thing. They tried to build some coalitions while we were there. The whole attitude was we are doing this for ourselves and that was an attitude that the police could not possibly bring. The police were impressed with the fact that crime- there was this whole image of Fifth Avenue as this crime ridden, disaster area. We totally contradicted that image based off what we were doing. We just did so many programs that I just get tired thinking about it! The institute for Black Culture which is of course part of the university, but there was always some issues there in terms of the university not taking that facility seriously and not providing forth security and so





forth and so on. We were able to take on that responsibility. As I said, we helped set up the civic media center. We were very supportive of that. We had our own newspaper at one point, the Ninety-Nine Journal. That went around. That was important in the community because one of the other problems we have is that you have a mainstream newspaper like the Sun or whatever. Those mainstream newspapers rarely have people of color on the staff. They don’t have any real connections in the community and they mainly rely on police blotters and other things to get stories. Where we were with the community so we could be a source of the news and in the Ninety-Nine Journal you find out about stuff that you would never read in the Gainesville Sun or whatever else. So our goal was to build as best we could institutions that we felt did not exist that should exist for the good of the community. We had a Malcolm X Revolutionary conference every year where we would bring up topics of history, culture, music, art and politics all related to African people. We would invite them to the institute to come and some of our members would speak and we would bring in guests from other places.

We played a role in bringing Winnie Mandela- may she rest in peace- to the area and we brought other prominent people as a result of what we were doing- scholars again, activists, political people. Our goal was to see a need in the community- we did so many different things because when we saw a need in the community we said, “Okay. It is our responsibility to address that need or help the community address that need.” We talked about developing economic programs. We tried to get the Scurvy Dollar Program started, which was going to try to support the businesses in the community because we knew our people had





limited funds. They want to support Black businesses, but then the businesses had a challenge because they couldn’t offer the discounts and other things that the stores had. We looked at independent currency communities around the US and how we could potentially communicate that there. Actually, a few liberals outside the community actually ended up creating something that was inspired in part by what we initially called the Garvey Dollars. We spoke out against war and we ran campaigns for conscious objection registration because our notion is that with African people oppressed, we really shouldn’t be going into foreign wars. At the time the foreign war was the Iraq, Gulf War. Police Brutality, we spoke out consistently against that and tried to work with the local police department for retraining and reeducation there. At the University, lone of the most telling meetings there was a gentleman known as Dr. Brian, who was the interim president before Lombardi arrived. He said, “Well I have never encountered any racism in my whole life” and we just kind of sat there and looked at him and was like, “This is going to be a bit more difficult than we expected!” [Laughs] Because you know he was calling this meeting to see why we were talking about racism and all this kind of stuff because everything was alright. We were like, “Um… No!” We would periodically get picked up by UF police or Gainesville Police under all kind of pretenses of stupid stuff because when the masses of the people rise up and create their own institutions and you are not under government control and not under control of the system, everybody gets scared. They create this image- I remember this woman in town and they found some World War II ordinates I guess in her front yard or something. The word went





around that we had set a bomb in her yard- why we do something as stupid as that I have no clue. It happened to happen when we were getting ready for our annual Malcolm X rally on campus. There were actual FBI agents with the trench coat talking into their trench coats, walking around the crowd asking if anyone knew anything about the bomb. It just encapsulated the ridiculousness of the society sometimes- where we make citizens the enemy and then the real enemies kind of get to walk around unscathed doing damage.

	L:	Yeah, its funny how they think that is something that after Black Thursday that everything was perfectly fine in terms of race relations here at UF.

	I:	Right. Yeah. The view seems to be that racism doesn’t exist. It’s a proximity thing- I call it the proximity thing. I used to spend a lot of time working with the Red Stockings organization and a lot of the feminists and we shared stories about historical activism. One of… Carol Giodina was one of my closest friends back in the old days. We would sit and talk about this proximity thing, which is that sexism doesn’t exist until I encounter it as a male. Racism doesn’t exist until I encounter it as a White man. You realize that if it ever happens, it’s going to be rare, but meanwhile, the rest of us! That was the challenge at UF. UF was largely oblivious to the consequences for example of giving a student government- at that time student government controlled about 6 million dollars because it also controlled the student union. The budget was about 6 million dollars and you have to keep in mind that most universities don’t allow students- they may have some influence, but they don’t get to control it directly that UF did it. In fact, there would be massive amounts of money in the UF student government elections





because people saw the student government election at UF as a stepping stone to Florida politics because there was so much money and so much influence involved. You basically had an extremely unrepresentative student government. So, naturally every time you brought up issues about Black history month or issues of woman or issues of Native Americans or whatever- these people would be like, “We don’t know anything about that. We’re not interested in that. They would either vote not to fund it or to fund it less.” On the other hand, the ski club would get like twenty thousand because everyone was in the ski club. That kind of stuff would go on year after year after year. Of course, it just happened that when we got there, we got one of the other policies in the 99 was that we wanted 99 representatives in all the organizations. Different members joined the NAACP, they joined the different bodies- I ended up being the Black history chair of the Black Student Union. It was from that position- and of course it was our attitude once we take those positions is a 99 attitude. Our notion is that we are not going to beg these people, they are going to have to give us the proper respect that we are entitled to as students and people who contribute to this money. When that didn’t happen, it was very interesting because basically the BSU morphed into the BAM- the Black Awareness Movement. What basically happened that all the leaders that had been conditioned to basically to beg the student government and accept whatever they give us, were kind of escorted out of office. Those of us who weren’t going to stand for this- that group took over. BAM was born out of the BSU, but it came because the BSU had failed to represent the interests of the people. The BSU was so conditioned on basically there were BSU officials at the





time, who were like. “Well I guess we can try again next year!” I was like, “Um. No, no, no.” Those voices of people- I always tell people that what happens is that one a lot of these organizations have been so conditioned to kind of have a begging posture have to be transcended by organizations that are like, “No, we demand our rights.” That’s what happened and BAM became way more powerful and larger than BSU had ever been. There were people who had never been part of BSU, who had become part of BAM because they were so frustrated that BSU didn’t really do anything except they would host parties from time to time. When it came to anything substantive or political, the general charge was to go along with the system. But BAM worked in the same way that 99 worked in the sense that it was not under the control of the University or the system or whatever. It had no defined leadership- there was no one person you could go too. It was just that BAM was a movement. It was just really impressive to me because I remember BSU trying to come to the meetings, but we had no problem. BAM was standing room only. Everyone would identify just by going around campus and saying, “BAM!” [Laughs] Still today, some of the alumni the tagline is “BAM!” They’ll write me from time to time-

	L:	It is a good thing you guys have a catchy name!



	I:	Yeah, yeah. BAM was the Black Awareness Movement. Our symbol was a big fist coming down like, “Look, you gotta get this right!” It was impressive. I have lots of pictures and lots of stuff. The fascinating thing about BAM was that it radicalized people who were not BAM type people. I remember me and Dave used to sit down and during the whole BAM era there would be newspaper





articles. The newspaper articles would be editorials from students who were pro- BAM and students who were anti-BAM. What was really interesting was that some of the most engaging articles arguing in favor of BAM, were by people who we would’ve identified as being associated with the system. That once the people radicalized, the organization radicalized and then leaders- people who wanted to be leaders- all of a sudden wanted to go along. It was like, you condemn Harriet Tubman and then you see her getting away with a few slaves and the people are starting to support her, so then all of a sudden you swing around and your like, “Yeah, Harriet is a hero!” That was the position and I watched a bunch of people. We used to remark, “That can’t be this person” because part of the reason we have such weak leaders in some of our communities is that these leaders are not being pushed by the people to have more aggressive stands and more confrontational stands. As a result, by habit and training they just kind of sit there and they see their job as explaining to us why we can’t get what we are entitled to [Laughs].

	L:	One thing that I sort of noticed when listening to your interview is that you had mentioned the Sisters in Struggle.

	I:	Yes.



	L:	Did the Loyal Order, is it a fraternal organization? Did it not accept woman? What was the relationship with women who were in the club?

	I:	We had women as well. What ended up happening an African tradition is the notion that men and women have their own institutions and then they come





together. They work. It became clear to us that there were a number of things that the sisters wanted to raise concerns about and we don’t have the most effective structure and I was like we got to find a vehicle for this. How are we going to handle all of this? The conclusion was that we needed a women’s organization, but I didn’t want to make a women’s auxiliary. My sense of those was that it was inferior, it was kind of a “Me too” club. I was like, “No, I don’t want that. I want something equal in standing.” At the time, my girlfriend was Aaronette Carter, who was also at UF and was working her way towards her law degree.

She was very much involved in 99 activities and other things and supporting us. Those ideas kind of spun around and she ended up basically creating Sisters in Struggle and we were both hitting the ground together. They also had some independent stuff that they were working on too! It was a joint thing. Looking backwards, I think probably based on statements and some actions of 99 members, I don’t think we were as sensitive to the role of patriarchy as we should have been. Looking back, I think there were times when I missed stuff, I think there were times when other people messed up. I think that was a critique I would make. There were some moments when patriarchy reared its ugly head and didn’t really get critiqued. I had a lot of background in terms of patriarchy. A lot of the young men who joined the organization did not and sometimes they were not as sensitive sometimes. I had to deal with some of those issues and I don’t know if I dealt with them perfectly. I was a lot younger than I am now and inexperienced, so looking back I probably could’ve handled some things better.

Probably the critique of sexism could’ve been a little bit more prominent in what





we are doing. I also think what we were doing-from a more positive angle- the entry of Sisters into the organization also introduced different ideas about how you organize and what’s important in terms of what part of issues you want to emphasis and so forth. I was like, “We need this and we need this in a non- conflictual way.” The decision was made of, “Hey, we’re going to make an organization for Sisters, but it’s not going to be a 99 auxiliary or 99 for women”. I just didn’t like that whole image. So Sisters in Struggle was born! It was powerful in its own right. We did lots of collaborative stuff together and we each had our own stuff too, so it was perfect.

	L:	Do you remember what year Sisters of Struggle was formed?



	I:	Ah, now you’re quizzing me. I really couldn’t tell you that kind of information. L:	[Laughs] that’s alright. I don’t mind.

	I:	All this stuff is happening around the same time, so the dates get- I think the documentation in the Iguana and stuff does it point by point on a lot of stuff. At the time when you’re in the middle of it, you’re not documenting all of this. You’re not even thinking. One of the things that happens when you’re an activist is that you don’t think historically. I can think historically about it now, but the activism that I am in now I probably still could not think of it historically because you’re in the middle of it. You have to kind of look backwards.

	L:	When you say looking back, you had regretted certain aspects. Is there anything else you guys wish you could have done differently either or more positively or negatively?





	I:	Not really. Not really. That’s probably the only thing because I felt that piece- anything that would broaden the reach and the scope of what we were doing- which was so important- any piece that held us back is what I would want to remove. My goal was to reach out as broadly as possible to all sectors of the community and oppressed people generally. I very much had- and still have- a Panther mentality that we need a Panther-like organization that can reach out to. The Panthers were extremely effective to reaching out to all kinds of things and the Panthers inspired other groups from other oppressed people who copied the model or bits and pieces of it and customized it to their own purpose. I am pretty happy looking backwards, other than looking backwards and if you were to take me now and insert me back in those places, I probably would’ve had a fairer going critique of patriarchy in terms of structure, not in any individual because I think we conducted ourselves pretty well. I think there were some structural aspects that I probably would’ve restructured some discussions and mechanisms for input and so forth to make it a little more inclusive than they were. I think that happened because we started with a group of young men and there were not females initially, not because we said they couldn’t be there, but because they were just not there. So when we did have young women who said, “Hey, I would like to join this,” we said, “Fine.” The catch with saying fine is that you haven’t reorganized your organizational structures to account for that. It’s kind of like the problem that America has always had with this integrations to give. They said, “Okay, you can come in,” but when you come in you’ve got your standard operating procedures. You have got the structures that are set up and they





haven’t been customized for your inclusion. Instead of saying “let’s organize a party together” it’s more of a “You’re invited to my party. Where I pick the music, I control everything and I make sure you don’t mess up anything.” That’s not inclusion. For me, one of the experiences that I have had over my lifetime is to understand the critical difference between diversity and inclusion, which are arguably not synonyms, but fundamentally different things. I think America has some pre-manufactured commitment to diversity because it has to, but I think the commitment to inclusion is fatally low.

	L:	I think that you mentioned that sometimes you guys would hold your meetings at IBC?

	I:	Yes, yes.



	L:	You know that IBC is currently closed down and we are actually doing a little bit of research on it. Do you remember anything about how organizations like IBC or La Casita were able to help you guys with your own experience?

	I:	The Institute of Black Culture was the center of Black lives at the University of Florida. There were probably more students of color passing through the IBC then say the Black Student Alliance meeting or something else. Unlike those organizations, which mainly revolved around meetings and activities, the IBC was a place you could go and where African art of people of color were connected, speakers would come, social events were held. It was a place where when the stress of White supremacy was to great you could go and sit and have an engaging discussion. You could have meeting rooms when you wanted to





have meetings that were really community oriented and not in the kind of sterile environment of the student center and so forth. It was naturally a place where for us it was a place, a home away from home. That’s as students apart from when we got the 99 going because when we had the 99 going and BAM was going that obviously became the focus of our activities where to the point where White supremacists decided they were going to deface the facility. At that point, we raised with the university the fact that unlike the other facilities of the university, it was not secure, it did not have proper lighting, and so forth. We insisted that we put it there, they refused. We reacted by putting a twenty-four hour security detail there, an armed guard, marching around the facility twenty-four hours.

	Immediately, the university decided to add additional lighting and security! [Laughs] So, mission accomplished on that! Most universities have such facilities. I am dismayed to find out that one of the things that happened-even though I am in the University Of Florida Hall Of Fame- is that the university, in my mind, made a very conscious effort to make era disappear. Basically, what the university has wanted to maintain is this romantic- they’ll take you back to the 1960s. How there were no	students there and then students came and then they had to struggle, and “Blah, blah, blah.” They don’t want to talk about that in 1980 we kind of had to start all over and fight that battle again. I remember they did something like the forty or fifty year observance of Black students at UF. They literally and totally ignored our era entirely. I think that was intentional. I don’t think they forgot. I am in the Hall of Fame, but I have never been asked to come back and speak on any of this up until the historical project that you are a part of and that some other





people have reached out to me. Never had anyone asked me, which unthinkable at most of the institutions that I have- you know my alma mater, where I was I not nearly as central to the activism, but I was active, they have reached out to me many, many times and have asked me to come back and talk to student leaders and whatever. I have never been invited to UF for anything.

	L:	Do you think this sort of intentional-



	I:	Oh I have no doubt in my mind! Let’s just say for the present they don’t know, but if we go back a little bit to the 2000s when it would’ve been fresh, they had a choice. They could have made this part of the legacy and then now it would be different, but they specifically excluded on purpose to create the image that basically the UF story I that everything was rough in the [19]60s and ever since then we have straightened it out and it’s all been happy in Gatorland. They don’t want to tell the stories of how in 1980 we had a White fraternity that was still doing Blackface that we fought against. They don’t want to talk about the White Student Union that we had to fight to get off campus because it was a clan annex. They don’t want to talk about the IBC being defaced with N words and all of this happening in the late [19]80s. That messes up the narrative of the “We’re okay.” They simply erased it and I remember they had Dr. Dibell, who had been there since the [19]60s, she knows about this era and she knows what we went through. Many of the people that are intimately involved, like the people from the Iguana and whatever. They are right there, so if UF wanted to get this information it’s not hidden or secret per say. It’s the fact that I don’t think it fits into the narrative per say. I think that people who are there now are so far removed and it





wasn’t part of the narrative, so they just don’t know how to ask. I am just glad and am wondering how you guys found out about it. I literally would just test periodically if does anyone remember BAM? It was just erased. I think it was erased on purpose. It was far more radical in the [19]60s. I heard the stories of the [19]60s when I got there and we were way more active. We were in the national news. It stuns me because most of the students involved are prominent people and were prominent people of the time- officials of student government, the dean of multicultural of student affairs. Very, very high ranking people we involved in all of this and the notion that nobody remembers anything about this is… interesting. It’s not surprising. That’s the way America does. If you pick up an American history textbook that has a history of woman that involves Betsy Ross sewing a flag and Marcus Garvey, one of the most important African Americans, is usually not even mentioned much less covered. When you are presenting that kind of history that is sanitized to push an ideological position, I am not surprised that we have gotten excluded. At most other universities by now, they would’ve invited everyone from the 99 back and had a whole conference on this. I was just talking to a gentleman on a plane that I met. He was on the 1968 Olympic team that involved the three men who put the black fist up in the air. They took a lot of criticism for that and he is organizing a huge reunion of Olympic athletes from that team and they are all unified. They are going to have a hundred, or two hundred or three hundred athletes that are still alive and able to make it. They are going to be there and he was telling me all of that. I was like, “That’s what I am talking about.” You’re talking about a group from 1968 and the US Olympic





Committee is not really organizing this. This was not something on their radar. This is being done by people who are just interested in the story of the 1968 and the significance of the Olympic team. I am just thinking, here you have at UF the most important student activity over a three or four year period, not just the demonstrations, but everything that was going on campus. The highest level of student activism in probably two decades and you get nothing! [Laughs] That can’t be accidental, not an educational institution. If it was a corporate entity, maybe because corporate entities are not focused on these things, but an educational institution in Florida with the issues and diversity of racism and challenges that Florida has. To totally omit this and “Oh we forgot”- no, no.

L:  I was able to hear about this. I have been taking two years of courses about the history of UF and I have not heard about the 99. So I decided to go look further into this as my-

	I:	I have this huge, huge- my plan was to write a book, but I have not. I need some outside funding and some port to do it. I had asked someone on the History project if they could connect me with the University of Florida Press or whatever. It’s kind of hard to get presses interested in something- It has some implications for the university but certainly UF would be the primary. I just hadn’t heard anything back. It’s been kind of tough to get into this project without some support because I have so much material. I was asking you because you were indicating you were interested in some of this material. I would be happy to make it available. It’s not that I want to hold onto it, but it’s the fact that the sheer volume. I kept everything. I documented everything. I am anally retentive that





way. You say pictures- I got thousands of them. You say statements, rallies, newspapers, television articles, I got videos. It’s just huge! It’s not really organized, so it’s kind of difficult when someone says, “Can you share this with us?” Well sure, but what do you want me to share? What should I look- I am kind of at a loss with that.

	L:	I thought it was insane that what you guys have done has not been shared. I was hoping to turn it into, well you were young in the [19]90s, do you know zines?

Those sort of easy to pass around. I was going to form one either by the end of this month or the beginning of May sort of detailing the actions you guys did and how that could inspire or be used to help other individuals in the future.

	I:	Well maybe I can try to hit highlights, you know? [Laughs] As tough as that is- that’s a funny word because it’s more obscure history. Although, I think the whole story needs to be told I think that maybe hitting some highlights like our annual participation in the Martin Luther King March, which they had every year, our railing against police brutality, our visits to other campuses are things that I would call highlights. Maybe I could get a few of those and maybe send a few of those as long as you recognize that whatever I send you is just not the beginning of it! This is literally like a highlight reel! You got that 2 minutes to tell people what happened in the game.

	L:	As of now, I only have one photo. A photo of you from got off a different interview [Laughs]! It’s just you wearing the uniform.





	I:	I can bury you in photos. I can bury you in newspaper articles. I can bury you in video tapes. Dave and I quote prominently we would always get- there were two kinds of local television shows that would always have us on, particularly once the White Student Union was formed. They liked the idea of us debating the White Student Union. We did four or five of those and eventually exposed it as it an adjunct to the clan.

	L:	Was it a UF show?



	I:	Yes! It was produced by the UF communication- I can’t remember what the show was called, but it was a UF program that would come on once a week. It was a PBS oriented type public affairs. Once we came into existence, we were a popular- we were an attention getter. They would always invite us especially when the White Student Union and we would get stuck in these debates because the White Student Union would put out information on campus that none of the Black students were qualified to be on campus because they were all affirmative action because none of them had good grades. It was really funny because then they had an Asian-American who they appointed to be the symbolic vice president to try to prove that they weren’t racist. The real funny moment was when we got them to admit on television, we got them to say on television, they said, “We challenge you. If you can show any connection between our organization and the Klan, we will disband.” I said, “Okay. Alright.” We had our intelligence department to meet with a gentleman organizing Klan units locally, Tony Bostanzio. One of the objectives of the Klan during the [19]80s was to infiltrate predominately White campuses and to do that using White Student





Unions. Basically, the White students would be given this Klan ideology, but they wouldn’t be told it was from the Klan and then they would become the mouthpieces for the Klan on campus. They were being used. So what we did was we got in touch with Tony Bostanzio- the Klan was always talking to us and threatening us all the time so we actually had lines of communication with the Klan- and the Klan said, “Yeah, we formed this White Student Union. I spoke with the two organizers. We’re trying to move into the University of Florida.” I went back and publically released this information and the White Student Union ceased to exist the same week. The way they ceased to exist was that their advisor, we had warned him and told him that he did not want to be associated with this, but the advisor was insisting and trying to make some kind of free speech argument. The minute we released to the Gainesville Sun and everybody the statement from Tony Bostanzio, the advisor mysteriously left. [Laughs] End of the WSU!

	L:	Oh man! So, hopefully I am not taking up too much of your time!



	I:	No, no! Like I said, if I had my way I would’ve probably published a book long before now, but life happens and you just have so many other things to deal with that you never get around to it. I do think this story needs to be told and I have said that if I can’t tell it, that I would love to drop it off somewhere. I know Dave doesn’t have the time- we’re both extremely busy. I probably would’ve left this alone, but when the University of Florida contacted me and said they wanted me to come- they weren’t asking me to come as an individual, but they were recruiting Black alumni to participate in this observance to celebrate the post-





integration of UF and so forth. I noticed that as they were telling the history that they had absolutely from our era. I began to ask questions and it became clear to me that the White washing had begun.

	L:	Yeah.



	I:	We were far too radical! It was okay to talk about integrationist, but we weren’t integrationist. Our position that as you treat us as human beings, you treat us as citizens, you treat us as students equal to everybody else and you don’t do that because we’re going to become like you. We’re not interested in the melting pot. We’re interested in toss salad. We’re not trying to melt because whenever you have a melting pot, everyone knows who’s supposed to melt! [Laughs] It’s always the same group! No one everybody else has to melt, but we gotta melt. I am not interested in being in the fire and I am not interested in melting. I am African. I make no apologies. I am going to be an African and I am not trying to be something other than an African. I am fine with you being whoever you are. I will accept your humanity as you are and you will accept my humanity as I am too and if you don’t, we’re not going to get along very well!

	L:	That should’ve been your presidential speech! [Laughs]



	I:	Exactly! That has always been my fundamental debate with America. The idea of America was always that you had to turn into something else. No one ever asked the English who built this and the Germans- no one ever asked them to be something else. They could be English they could be whatever they wanted.

Once you got past that, they told the Italians change, they told the Irish to





change, and then African people for most of that period weren’t even considered human and then towards the end of that process in 1960 or [19]70 they said, “Well we’ll accept you as a kind of a conditional human provided that you agree to assimilate to our cultural and social values.” I said, “Well, I appreciate the offer, but no thanks!”

	L:	Yeah. It’s interesting how Black Thursday, how that’s sort of the iconic event that happened amongst Black students in the early [19]70s and that’s already being erased as well. If you asked almost any student on campus, they couldn’t tell you what that was.

	I:	We’re in the late eighties, early nineties and we don’t exist. I’m surprised the seventies. Maybe they had a cooler name, [Laughs] our name was BAM, so maybe Black Thursday was better. Maybe Black Thursday, they think of Black Friday, which is the shopping day. Maybe people can retain it. We didn’t have a day of the week, so our loss, we didn’t pick a day of the week!

	L:	Not catchy enough!



	I:	Yeah. Not catchy. We just had BAM. I guess another part of the history that they want to cover up is the explicit racism as a result. There was a lot of racism.

	There was a student that was urinated on in the eighties- L:	In the [19]80s?

	I:	Yes.



	L:	You’re kidding.





	I:	Yes. During the [19]80s, one of the incidents that I was asked to respond to and we had to respond to with our security detail. I got a call at 2 o’clock in the morning and some of my officers who patrolled the community indicated that I should go to a dorm as soon as I could possibly get there. I got to the dorm and there was a student who was going to withdraw from the university. I was trying to discourage her from doing that. There was a student above her who had apparently had captured some urine and poured it on her head.

	L:	I wonder if it was a girl as well.



	I:	This was about to explode because there were some pretty angry people in our community who knew who had done it and wanted to deal with that situation.

More than one occasion, I had to try to diffuse things from really blowing up at the university. There was a period that the Klan said they were going to come on campus to protect White women from Black male attacks [Laughs].

	L:	Right. Black male attacks…



	I:	I would be like, “Right. That’s not going to be good.” I impressed upon the university that you probably don’t want to let these losers- The Nazis would always come to the square downtown in Gainesville and we would always confront them. They had their guns. We had ours. You behave. We’ll misbehave. We had to directly confront the skinheads because the Klan for the most part spent its time talking, but the neo-Nazis were the storm troopers. They were going to take action. They started attacking students and community members who would go to the 7/11 which was right across university.





	L:	I live next to there [Laughs].



	I:	Right. Especially females. They would attack them. In fact, one night a group of women came to us. Again I would always get these calls at like 2 o’clock in the morning. I would jump up and put my uniform on and I would find out that they were being chased down the street by neo-Nazis with bats. We informed the police department. The police department said well we can’t do anything unless they assault somebody [Laughs]. We were like, “Uh, no. Actually that’s not going to be good. We’re not going to allow that.” The next day I went to the neo-Nazi house, which was just behind the 7/11. They were staying in a house. I think they were stunned because we all went in uniform with proper equipment and rang the front doorbell, one of the neo-Nazis came to the door and I said, “Hi.

Welcome to the neighborhood”- because they had just moved in. I said, “My name is Nikitah Imani. These are my brothers. You have every right to live here and be a part of this neighborhood, but being a part of the community does not allow you authorization to attack anyone. If I hear or even suspect that anyone else is attacked, we’re going to offer you free spring cleaning services.”

	L:	Oof!



	I:	“And we do feral spring cleaning. When we’re finished, there will be nothing and no one left.”

	L:	Wow.



	I:	“Have a good day!” and we walked off. The next day they moved to Micanopy. They literally moved. I have often told people that you have to respond to this





stuff. You can’t always rely on law enforcement because law enforcement as they said- the law enforcement isn’t triggered until after someone’s killed or beat. My notion was that, “No, no, no. We go to be proactive. We got to let them know that, “Look. You’re going to have to weigh something. You’re going to have to weigh wanting to go beat some innocent, female student.” The students were part of an organization called CaribSA- the Caribbean Students Association.

They were really traumatized because many of them having been reared in the Caribbean had never faced face-to-face American racism. Racism for them was like a concept. This would’ve been traumatic for anybody, but it was extremely traumatic for them and their organizations. It was kind of funny because they didn’t want anything to do with the 99, but after this we were VIP [Laughs]. They were just traumatized and we were like, “No. As far as we’re concerned, Africans brought to the Caribbean are still Africans. We don’t care what island you’re on, many Afro-Americans are actually afro-Caribbean Americans because the breaking stations for the slaves here were in the Caribbean. We understand the story and we understand that the neo-Nazis are attacking you not because you came from Jamaica or the Bahamas- or they don’t even know what island you came from! They look at you and they see your African heritage and they decide to attack you. We’re going to say no.” We said no. They moved because they were actually scared.

	L:	Do you see- I feel like a lot of what you’re describing is so explicit in a way that’s almost shocking-like there was actually, physical these members. Now, with the





internet I feel like it’s easier for things to be more compli--not complicit but hidden. You know what I mean?

	I:	Absolutely. Right, right.



	L:	Racism still exists and people would just rather ignore it or not look. When things like Richard Spencer come, it becomes a whole thing.

	I:	Yes, but my argument is the things you see have been planned. I learned this from the Panthers. If you see the rally that you want to object to. The rally you’re objecting to had been planned. There has been a planning process. You have to upend stuff back at the planning stages before. Another complaint I had about a lot of organizations is that they are very reactive. I was never reactive. We were very proactive. That’s why we may have been seen as radical, but my notion was that we already have had people attached. Those people are so intimidated that they are not going to report these, which means the police aren’t going to do anything and we we’re going to end up with someone dying. Then there is going to be violence and other things because people are going to react to that. There is going to be community wide hostility. All we got to do is tell these guys that this is not acceptable behavior. It’s a lot like parenting. It’s like parenting because if you see the child that’s completely doing a temper tantrum in the grocery store that’s not where that began. There has been a lack of discipline at a very early stage and it’s been allowed to go on. That’s why my philosophy when it came to Klan and other things is that you have every right to freedom of speech, you have every right to live here, but the minute you want to hit somebody- your rights end. The right to hit somebody comes with my right to respond and you don’t want to





deal with my right to respond… So they left. Another thing that didn’t endear us to the university is that we pointed out the history of the buildings at the university. Jay Wayne Reitz, Stephen O’Connell. These were segregationists, who were all involved in trying to exclude-

	L:	Yeah many of which were involved in-



	I:	Yeah, the three main buildings were all after those who fought in legal court. One was a judge, one was a president of the university- we’re all trying to fight to prevent Black students from coming in. Yet, we were asked to go into these buildings as common facilities as a common student union to all be together, but it’s named after somebody who didn’t want me here. [Laughs] Like that’s a problem! They went to extreme lengths and they were remembered in part because they did that. That’s the problem. They’re not being remembered because they did something ignoble and they are being recognized for it and we’re being asked to ratify that every time we go in. We raised attention to things like that- We got a financial confrontation with the university because the university had a little scam going on with financial aid. Basically, what the scam was is that students who had financial aid-disproportionately students of color- who were relying on financial aid would wait long periods for their financial aid.

Turns out, the university was getting the checks and depositing them because the checks were written to the university and the student at least at that time. They would deposit them and make residual interest and keep the student on stall for a couple of months and then release the checks. Of course that put the student in jeopardy because the student had to of course pay for housing and





everything else. They would just claim the checks weren’t there. We staged a protest where we said, “We’re not leaving until every student here gets their check” and the university had to produce those checks. From my understanding, there was a policy change to not hold the checks. I’m sure those are the kinds of things didn’t endear us to! [Laughs]

	L:	Yeah!



	I:	We didn’t get a rousing vote of confidence after that pain. L:	Actually, I remember you mentioning Aaronette Carter? I:	Yes.

	L:	Do you happen to know I can possibly reach her? I:	She’s a practicing attorney in the D.C. area.

	L:	After she moved to Gainesville, and I called her office and she said she wasn’t there anymore.

	I:	Oh, okay! Well I might’ve lost track! Last contact I had with her- I actually met with her briefly was in the D.C. metropolitan area. The last contact I would’ve had for her would’ve been that. You’re saying that she moved from D.C. back to Gainesville?

	L:	Yeah. Do you happen to know if she has a number or email?



	I:	Let me see what I have for her? I think the last information I had for her might be a dead-end. I wasn’t aware of the subsequent move. The last time I talked to her





she was in D.C. I have got a mobile number and a home number. I don’t know because they are area code 301.

L:   Any would be great. Any attempt! [Laughs]



	I:	Okay. Let me give you her mobile number. It’s 301-437-0239. Now she might be a little guarded about talking about these things. It’s just because she’s in the legal profession. Sometimes having a history of activism is something that is not viewed positively in that milieu. That’s not why I am not in law. That’s why I stayed away from that. I can’t be in a field where you are like that. Of course, she is in law and does law. If she is a little guarded, it may be the reason. Me and Dave don’t care! It’s too late for us. Save the kids! Did you talk to Dr. Padgett?

	L:	I was not the one the one to Padgett, but I did talk to Dr. John Warf and visited him in his office.

	I:	Right, right. Great, great. Warf is great. L:	Yeah, he was fantastic.

I:   Yes, John is great. If you can get a chance to talk to Dr. Padgett. He was my right hand soldier and we’ve been friends forever. If you can get in touch with him, he is bevy of information. He’s just busy, incredibly busy.

L:   I could tell him you say hi.



	I:	Yeah, exactly. He is bevy of information and whatever. He doesn’t ignore you. It just takes him a while to get back because he is doing so much stuff. He is at Tennessee State University.





	L:	Did you happen to say you have another number for Aaronette Carter in case or just the mobile?

	I:	Let’s see do I have any other number. I know for a little while I had a contact with her on Facebook. She had a Facebook, but again it’s been a little while. I see her infrequently. Last time I actually met with her was in the D.C. area. I am trying to figure out if she is still. Whoops. Let’s see. No. I don’t think this information is still valid. I will do some digging and I will try to get back to you.

	L:	Cool.



	I:	Because I did have contact with her at one point and I know some people that she may know so I might be able to get in contact with her that way.

	L:	Do you remember any other woman from the sisters in struggle group?



	I:	Goodness… I have to go get the list of names. I got a list of names. I am at my office so I am not at my home office, I am at my university office. I don’t keep all of that stuff here, but since you are specifically interested in the women, I will get you some names once I get into that box. I have to go in there anyway because you want some- are you looking for more pictures or newspaper articles or what? What should I prioritize?

	L:	The pictures should be priority first. Photos anything really because like I said, we only have one photo of you.

	I:	Okay. I’m going to digitize some stuff for you. I will send you at least ten or twenty pictures that I think are the best.





	L:	Oh! Thank you so much! Thank you!



	I:	There a lot of newspaper articles so if you at some point want to get into that. I divided them into the ones I liked and the ones I actually consented to, where I gave the interview and I had some degree of control. There are other ones where people didn’t have information and had to develop their own sense of what we were about. I kept those around for amusement purposes. We would laugh at some of them and be like, “Man they don’t understand us at all!” [Laughs] Like they have no clue what they are talking about! We had one article that called us a militant radical band of Black extortionists- and keep in mind this is a news article! This is supposed to be news! It wasn’t mandatory! Of course there was no interview from anybody or anything- so I was like, “Hm, that’s real interesting folks, real interesting”. It taught me a lot about media and the way media works.

	L:	Yeah, that’s really true. Even looking it up, I have only found about four Alligator articles that mention-

	I:	No, no. There are- at one point we ruled the Alligator and the Iguana and we probably ruled the Iguana. Are you in touch with Joe Courter?

	L:	Don’t know who that is.



	I:	Joe Courter, the editor and main force of the Iguana. L:	Quarter like the dollar.

	I:	C-O-U-R-T-E-R. You definitely want to talk to Joe. L:	How did you say his last name was spelt?





	I:	C-O-U-R-T-E-R. He was there at the scene. He is a bevy of information. I haven’t talked to him in a long time. He was very much involved.

	L:	I think that this sort of research-



	I:	The Gainesville Iguana. He’s the publisher of the Gainesville Iguana. Are you familiar with the Iguana?

	L:	Yes. I read it!



	I:	So you know then. We were starts for the Iguana back then in that period. We were the best thing going! It was all about activism and we were in there. I wrote all kind of guest articles for the Iguana on a regular basis. The Iguana was, other than our official publication, they might have been our unofficial publication! They were the only ones that like, “If anyone wants to talk to the Iguana, anyone from the organization, they can go talk to the Iguana without my permission.” Other than that, [laughs] everything had to be vetted. The Iguana I knew that the Iguana understood what we were doing and they wanted our political side of the equation and not the system.

	L:	Yes.



	I:	Unlike the Gainesville Sun, which I tried to avoid at all costs. Talked to a few TV stations, but the Sun was just- the Sun was just too closely connected to the powers that be.

	L:	Wow. Never would’ve guessed.





	I:	Actually, the editor of the Sun used to meet with the then Mayor and the President of the University or whatever. The word was that whatever was basically going to be in the Sun or whatever political position the city or the region wanted to have would be decided at that meeting. Knowing that they were that closely connected, I knew immediately that, “Well the Sun’s not going to like us!] We could move right on from that. It certainly wasn’t going to be useful to giver information because most of the people in the community did not have a subscription to the Sun. They would hear about some articles second-hand anyway. If we wanted to get information- a lot of people don’t realize that, but if you want to get information to the masses or to your people, you can’t use the mainstream press because most of our people do not have- if it’s print media, we don’t have subscription. If it’s not TV, we will at least see the TV, but if it’s outside of television, if it’s not social media you are paying money to try to put an article in the New York Times thinking you’re going to reach someone in the community is just a misnomer. Even sometimes the so-called Black newspapers are a problem because some of them are front operations for the mainstream press.

	L:	Did not know that.



	I:	What will happen that is that in order to have a newspaper, you have to have a sufficient clientele to be able to be afford to publish. Many of the Black newspapers do not have a large enough audience to pay for the publishing so their publishing gets subsidized by the large newspapers in the area whatever that is. That newspaper basically begins to get a great deal of influence over the editorial point of view, so many of those newspapers are only nominally





independent because they have to rely on publication from the major newspaper. That becomes a problem. I know in Harrisonburg, Virginia where I had started my faculty career at James Maddison University. There was a newspaper called Valley Hit, which was nominally speaking, African American newspaper, but the Valley Hit’s most of its advertising space and printing cost are paid for by the daily news record, which is the major newspaper. You look at the Valley Hit and even though it’s an African American newspaper with African American news stories, it really doesn’t cover much of the news in the community. That’s because you’ve got to print stuff that’s appealing to the people who are paying the bills and stuff and stuff going on in the community is not appealing. It’s kind of like BET, which is not controlled by African Americans. So people ask me what I think about BET and I don’t. I really don’t. It’s not African American. Thank God Univision still has some Latino presence, but BET has been bought and sold and taken over. It’s kind of mainstream America’s view of African American life.

That’s kind of what it’s useful for.



	L:	Oh. Wow. [Laughs]



	I:	Yep. It’s one of the penalties of being a sociologist and political scientist. I analyze this kind of stuff. This is what I do for a living. You get to suffer here. Is that good? Did we cover everything?

	L:	Yeah! This is great. This has covered everything. I will be sure to check out the Iguana and check to see if they have any archives.

	I:	Yeah. Yes they do.





	L:	Like I said, I feel like this only the beginning. I won’t be available during fall semester for anything, but hopefully I will be able to continue more research later on.

I:   Okay. I will try to get you some stuff. Just send me your email again to make sure that I have got it. Send me an email that says, “Here’s my email!” I will try to send you some photos to get you started.

L:   Is there a day that would best for me to expect anything?



I:  Well, probably next week because this week I have to go fly to Washington D.C. I have a paper I am going to present in China, but I have to get a Chinese visa.

L:   I had to do that last year.



I:    There is no visa location where I am in Nebraska, so I have to go to Chicago or



D.C. and since I am familiar with D.C. and taught in that area, it just makes more sense for me to go to D.C. the end of this week taking care of my visa application for China. I should be back next week, so I would say probably by the end of next week you will have something.

L:   Okay cool. Also, I went to China last year.



I:   Oh, okay! I am on my way to Shanghai. I have not been to China, I have been to other places, but never been to China so this will be my first initiation to China.

L:   Shanghai is by far my favorite city. It was beautiful. I:   Well that’s where we are going in May.

L:   That’s actually when we went as well.





	I:	Oh okay. Well I am looking forward to it. It’ll be a new experience and I love new global experiences so this will be another one.

	L:	It’s so cool. Oh my god.



	I:	Let me ask you this question, you may know since you have been, how did customs and everything work with electronic devices? Because I know…

	L:	It was not bad. I did not take a laptop or anything.



	I:	Okay so you didn’t take a laptop. I’m doing a presentation and normally I would take my laptop and have my presentation on a laptop, but then I was like maybe I won’t. But then what would be the alternative? I have just had no one give me insight on that. They may give me insight at the Chinese Embassy, but I just don’t know.

	L:	I am not sure about that. It sounds a lot more intimidating. Make sure that for your visa that you take your pictures correctly. Lots of rules.

	I:	Yeah, I read that. It’s like I have never seen a twenty page manual for photographs [Laughs]

	L:	That’s what it was!



	I:	I am thinking that I might need the National Gallery of Art do me a painting!



Maybe we ought to skip the photo and do a live painting that I sit for. I am just not sure. How did you get yours done? Did you take them yourself or did you go to a photo shop?

	L:	We went to CVS pharmacy.





	I:	Okay so that was good enough? They would know the Chinese policy- which is way more complicated than the U.S.?

	L:	I think we had to explain it a little bit, but most of it was keep your ears visible and shirt and all that stuff.

	I:	Okay. Well, alrighty! Thank you because I appreciate that information. L:	Thank you! I hope you enjoy China.

	I:	[Laughs] I hope so too! We’re doing a lot to get ready for it so we’re hoping too. L:	What’s the name of the conference because maybe I can look it up-

	I:	Gosh, I have got it in front of me. It’s a conference on Edward Said and his book Orientalism. It’s the anniversary of his book and those of us who are scholars and do post-colonial writing will be paying tribute to him. I am going to be talking about the connection between Orientalism and Africana studies. That’s what my paper is on.

	L:	That’s cool. Maybe I will be able to find it somewhere on the internet.



	I:	Yeah, yeah. If you look up the organizers Dr. Tugrul Keskin and he’s at Virginia Tech, but I guess he’s also doing an appointment in Shanghai as well. I will try to get you the name when I send you the other stuff, I will also send the program.

	L:	Yeah, that sounds really interesting. I:	Okay.

	L:	Cool, alrighty. I hope you have a nice rest of the week!





	I:	Alright, thank you ma’am! \



		L:		I hope your presentation and everything goes well. I:	Hey, I appreciate it. You have a great day ma’am! L:	Thank you, you too!

	I:	Bye-bye.



	L:	Bye.













[End of Transcript]











Transcribed by:

Christine Berry



Audit-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

July 7, 2019

Final-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

May 21, 2020