AAHP 789A; Fowlkes; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 789A Michael Fowlkes 2-28-2020 Interviewed by Deon Winchester on February 28, 2020

26 Pages



Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; Pensacola, Florida; US Marines; Veterans History]



AAHP 789A

Interviewee: Michael Fowlkes Interviewer: Deon Winchester Date: February 28, 2020



	W:	Good day, I am Deon Winchester, I am here with Michael John Fowlkes at the Pensacola Main Library. Thank you, Mr. Fowlkes for taking the time to be interviewed and to tell your story.

	F:	You’re welcome.



	W:	Do you want to tell us about where you were born?



	F:	Well actually, if we go back to where I was born, I was actually born in Summerville, South Carolina. My mother is from South Carolina, and she went to South Carolina State, and I was raised in New Jersey, Atlantic City area, and at the time Atlantic City was the summertime vacation spot and it was called the “Playground of the United States,” the worlds playground. So, basically, people from college would come to Atlantic City to earn money for the summer and then go back to school, so I was actually born in South Carolina but raised in New Jersey. Eventually, my mother went back to become a teacher in New Jersey and that’s where I ended up staying.

	W:	What is your connection to Pensacola? How long have you lived in Pensacola?



	F:	I came to Pensacola because after growing up in Atlantic City, New Jersey, and if you’re familiar that Atlantic City eventually got casino gambling like Las Vegas, so at one point it was only casino gambling in Vegas, of course, and then Atlantic City. Well, I was there. I majored in accounting in college, and actually was working for the state of New Jersey in the casino industry as a inspector. I learned how to play all the games, it taught me how to cheat at all the games, so I could look for cheating and make sure everything was alright, and I just got tired





of doing that and I joined the Marine Corps. I always wanted to be a pilot. Well I just actually wanted to join the Marine Corps because I thought I was going to get into politics, and at the time most politicians were former military. I knew that if I wasn’t going to do that, I was going to be a businessman, so that’s why I did the accounting first. So, when I joined the Marine Corps, when I came down to flight school, that brought me to Pensacola, and I went through flight training in Pensacola. Then I eventually went out into the fleet, flew for a while and then came back as a flight instructor. When I came back the second time, this place is too beautiful to leave again, so that’s how I ended up staying in Pensacola. When I came back the second time as a flight instructor, and at that time I had a family and raised them here.

	W:	And you’ve been here ever since?



F:  Ever since, and even though I try to go back all the time to New Jersey, you know it’s just something about — Pensacola is just a beautiful place all year round so…

	W:	You know that being a Marine Corp pilot, that’s pretty special. That’s a real—



	F:	It is. it’s a tough branch, its very tough but its everything its storied to be. It has its good points and it has its bad like anything, but I’m proud of my association with it. You know I’m glad I did it.

	W:	“Semper Fi” as they say.



	F:	That’s what they say, always faithful.





	W:	Could you tell me about a bit of your upbringing? You know you said you were born in South Carolina, you know you lived in Atlantic City, what was it like… what year were you born?

	F:		I was born in 1959, my mother is like I said from Charleston area of South Carolina, my father is from Virginia. They met in Atlantic City, because that’s where the Black people were able to get jobs, and work into for that entertainment tourist industry so my family had Southern roots and ties to South Carolina and Virginia, but yet I was raised in the North, so I always felt that I had the best of both worlds. I had the Southern upbringing and all its benefits, but I also had the Northern ways and every summer, I would spend my summer in South Carolina because my grandparents and aunts and things like that in that family, and it was almost like being in two different cultures in a way, but it was the blessings of both. So, it was a great upbringing actually. It was very good.

	W:		Indeed. You know being born in 1959, I guess you would have experienced the changes of the [19]60s—

	F:	Yes.



	W:	Now, what were some of your early recollections of the movement in the [19]60s, you know civil rights advancements of justice?

	F:	Well in the civil rights. I was too young to really kind of notice it. It was just things that you always did. I remember, that’s when you drove from New Jersey to South Carolina and I remember one time being stopped by the police and I remember they had to do everything right at the side of the road right there so that the policemen was both the judge and the jury, and they had to be paid right





then on the road. I just remember looking out the back window that kind of thing, and then, the only really major event I remember when Martin Luther King was assassinated. As a kid, I was going to school and they just said “Hey Martin Luther King got shot,” and just everyone— seemed like the world stopped.

Everybody cried, it was just a… the world got dark all of a sudden.



	W:	What grade were you in?



	F:		I was in elementary school, so just guessing, first, second grade maybe. You know that type of thing, very young. Because I really didn’t quite understand, but I just knew all the older people were just torn up about it, you know that type of thing. And then after a while, you hear about President Kennedy got shot and then his brother got shot, and then it was just that type of thing. But I’ve pretty much healed it, and then actually being up North, being in New Jersey at the time, I remember when we moved from Atlantic City and the big thing there was I went from an all Black school ,where there was only maybe one or two White teachers, to moving to the suburbs and then I went to an all White school, where I was one of three or four Black students in the whole school, and it would go from one to the other in like months. I was just like “man.”

	W:	Like you said, two different worlds.



	F:	Two different worlds, right. So, we were the first Blacks on our street, and then that whole thing. I remember riding the bike and one of the neighbor’s kids— and it turns out to be that’s who’s house we end up buying from them, rolled up and is like us “You’re like a Hershey bar. You’re like a Hershey bar, you’re brown like a Hershey bar,” [Laughter] and its like “Oh, you’re the great American chocolate





boy,” because the Hershey commercial was ‘The Great American Chocolate Bar,’ and I was like “Is that a compliment? What is that” you know, it’s all news to me. Now when I grew up in Atlantic City, where I was in the inlet, I was a block away from the beach, I was able to walk to the beach by myself, you know even as a kid. I thought it was a great neighborhood, but they told me it wasn’t. I didn’t know that, I just know like I got the water right here, the beach right there, the people I actually that we actually lived around Blacks and Puerto Ricans, and it was a family atmosphere you know? And then you go to another area, you to one town over, and then it’s like “Oh, you’re strange, you’re different, you look different!”

	W:	And this is in Atlantic City?



	F:	Now, from Atlantic City, now over to Pleasantville is the name, and I got teased in— “You live in where?” “Pleasant-ville, Happy Town” but that’s just how it was. Turns out the town was, eventually “mixed” you might say, half and half, and I went to high school eventually and we had race riots at the time, well my freshman year. And that was the same year as the movie Roots, came out.

	W:	What was that like? What was the riots, what was that…?



	F:	Well remember, there was a, that whole civil rights time and things like that, that was a tough era, and that type of thing and then Roots, basically brought up the history and I guess when that history started coming out on TV, which remember that was a mini-drama, that type of thing. It was like taking the band-aid off a wound too quick for some people so, it enflamed a lot of, Black people you might say, and they were more, bold— militant’s not the word, but they were angry





initially and that type of thing, so there were some little riots. Not to say that we initiated it, because there was still always that pushback from the majority, but eventually— now at the time I happened to play sports, I was a football player, so the football team, which was also mixed, we always hung together, so that was a big mediator between the two. So, even though there was differences between the races, the sports actually kind of kept us all together. So, I was kind of in a cocoon, and it seems like I’ve always been around a, like in the middle of a group. Where like I said, I grew up with a Southern influence and Northern influence, and being on a sports team, you were with the Blacks and Whites. So, I’ve always been with a group and that way, you can always talk. So we would always talk things out. You know, we weren’t the best of friends but at least we had a respect for each other. But then you could also see where there were different sides that didn’t have that respect for each other, they were just blinded by what they grew up with. But, eventually it was a great town, I’m glad I went to the school and things like that, so it ended up eventually alright, but it was tough times. Like anything, any kind of change.

	W:	You know that’s interesting c’ause’ you know you hear about the race riots you know, associated with desegregation of schools, you know so it’s just interesting to hear up North that’s something that you don’t hear in history too often, that even up North had issues, but it just wasn’t as—

	F:	See the difference between the racism and if you could say, the discontent between each other, was just shown differently between the North and the South. The South it was more blatant, you know that type of thing. But in the North, it





was very subtle, very it’s like it wasn’t obvious, but you could feel it and that also that you were smart enough to know not to walk into an area that you didn’t know, but sometimes it, like you said it was so slight. It wasn’t blatant. So, you kind of had to be careful.

	W:	Did you have to be careful coming back to South Carolina for the summers? I mean, was the contrast that you— hear stories that you almost—

	F:	No, because I stayed with my family members and since they lived there and grew up there, they knew their boundaries, so you know, and then being I was smart enough to realize you don’t come from out of town and start a whole lot of mess either, you know. So, I didn’t go places I didn’t like. If they say “Don’t go there,” I didn’t go there, so I was protected that way, but you got to remember like, I would go to Charleston, and you go to Charleston, so what’s their biggest tourist attraction? The slave market! This is where, they are like “Yeah come see where we sold the slaves!” You know this was the culture of Charleston. Not to bring up Charleston when we know the day they’re having this weekend is their— election for delegates, their caucus and things like that.

	W:	Yes, yes. Their primary.



	F:	Yeah, the primaries is this weekend, that’s why I have been paying attention to a lot of the South Carolina stuff. technically my birth certificate says South Carolina, but if you ask me “Where did you grow up?” I grew up in New Jersey, but “where were you born?” South Carolina.

	W:	What led to you joining the military? Joining the Marine Corp, let me get it correct [Laughter].





	F:	Alright, well first of all I’ve wanted—well… W:	Why the Marine Corp?

	F:	Alright, well first of all while I was in college I was just one of those that joined student government. I was a football player in high school, so as a kid you thought “Oh, I’m going to make the pros, I’m a football player,” then I broke my arm twice in my senior year, and then the doctor says “Well if you break it again, you’re not going to be able to use that arm,” so I was like “Mm I got to think of something different,” so I eventually did go to college, the same college I would have went to if I would’ve played football, but now I took that time and got into student government. So now I’m in the SGA, I’m a senator and all like that, and I kind of got into this politics thing, and I was like “Mm, okay,” realized that’s where the real power is. You know that’s the real deal, because now the student government is passing the budget for the football team, [inaudible 15:46], “I think I might want to get into government,” that type of thing, and then really researching who the presidents were, who the government statesmen were, they were either, at that time, all former military guys— and I said, “I’m thinking about going into the military, so and, if you didn’t do that, a business degree always helps. So, I wanted a business degree, and I was always that type of person that was like “Okay, what’s the next level?” If you’re going to go into business, then I would rather get me a specialty and that’s what accounting was the thing. Not the accounting that there is now, cause’ the computers do it all, this was the old school accounting. Debits and credits and ledgers and all that stuff.

	W:	You have to love numbers!





	F:	That’s what I studied, which I was glad I did because it was very technical, and accounting helped out. So, when I was in college, I thought about going into the military then, and they said “No, you don’t want to do that,” and you got to remember too my senior year was the last year… my junior year in high school was the last year to sign up for the draft, so the senior year was the first year you didn’t have to sign up for the draft, which was for all those years prior was that’s how you lived; being drafted and that type of thing. So, I didn’t have to do that, so I didn’t have to go into the military, but it was just something I thought about. Got out, and I got a job with the commission. It just so happens that the guy that hired me is a former Marine, and right before I went to the interview the secretary peeks our and says, “Watch out for that guy, he’s tough,” and I was like “Yeah?” she said, “He’s a former Marine , he’s tough man.” So, when I get in the interview, he’s telling me about the job, and I say “You know what, I’m actually thinking about joining the Marine Corps,” and he hired me like right then. Called me up the next day “You’re hired!” you know, and I actually worked with him for four years. Bbut eventually in that, as my mind was working, I end up accidentally signed up to join the Marine Corps as an officer and at the time it’d had been as a Black officer, and remember the Marine Corps was the last service that’s segregated, it’s the last of you know. So, I guess I was kind of prized, I was kind of like, “They really wanted me to get in,” so, I end up joining. That’s why I join the Marine Corps because to make a long story short, if I’m going to do it give me the best. When I was in college, I pledged a fraternity, and I pledged the best too, so.





	W:	Which fraternity is that?



	F:	That’s well, what do you think? [Laughter]. I’m trying to put you on the spot, I’m an Alpha.

	W:	Indeed.



	F:	I am an Alpha like Martin Luther King, and that was my role model, Martin Luther King, Thurgood Marshall, Julian Bines, Andrew Young, you know all those guys, you know that type of thing, that was my thing so I was an Alpha in college, my nickname was “The Senator,” you know I joined the Marine Corps which is the best—the Marine s. That’s just how it was, what’s the toughest job in the Marine to get? Being a pilot, that’s how it was. That’s just kind of how I drove— that’s how I was. So, that’s what kind of drove me there, and then that’s what brought me to Pensacola. On my way to Pensacola, I heard about, this mythical place called Tuskegee, where the Tuskegee Airmen which I’m about to go to school— again just as life has given has always put me in the right place in my opinion, I go there just on a humbug, stop by Tuskegee and then I went to the airfield and I look and I get ready to leave and a guy runs up and says “Hey my instructor says he wants to know if you want to come up and fly with us?” I go, “Sure.” I guess he must’ve saw me looking at these airplanes, and at the time, being the Northern that I was, I wore a shirt and tie wherever I went, because I knew that people treated you better if you had a shirt and tie on. So, even though it was a hot summer in Tuskegee, I had a shirt and tie, so “You want to ride?” “yeah.” So, I got in the plane flight, it turned out to be Chief Anderson, Chief Alfred Anderson, the chief instructor for the Tuskegee Airmen. This was the guy who taught the





Tuskegee Airmen, who now, is still giving lessons at an older age, and he ended up talking to me about how he flew with Eleanor Roosevelt, he signed, and I actually felt at the end of that flight that I could get through flight school, just cause’ I flew with him, and I eventually did, and the rest is kind of history. But, and then when I left that flight, I actually came to Pensacola, checked in, and I was like “Man this is one of the prettiest places I’ve ever been.” Now, being from Atlantic City, New Jersey, which is also a beach in the Atlantic Ocean, now I’m on this Gulf of Mexico water, like bath water, and remember I got here in November. Christmas day, I was on the beach, on Christmas. That’s how that was. Jersey, you couldn’t think about doing that. So, it’s a whole different thing. Now, at the time I’m in Pensacola, which as you know, way up Northern, Florida, and I didn’t even know about Miami area and all like that and down in that area, but I will get to that later on, but, and, Key West and all those pretty places in… and then eventually I ended up going down there, I’ve been to Jamaica and things like that. I’ve done some traveling, since then, but , this is a beautiful region, beautiful area.

	W:	What year was it that you signed up? F:	[19]84.

	W:	[19]84.



	F:	[19]84, yeah so, it’s like a whirlwind.



	W:		Did the pilots have a different training? Did they have to go through Parris Island or did you still go to—





	F:	Well, as an officer, you actually go through Quantico, Virginia. Yeah, and it’s on the FBI academy and the, we call “Marine Corps OCS,” Marine Corps base, kind of, they kind of touch each other. So, it’s in Quantico, Virginia, south of Washington, D.C. So you went to Quantico first, because the Marine Corps is the only, because you have the OCS at Quantico and then you do what they call TBS: The Basic School, the Marine Corps is the only officer service that has a finishing school, because Marine officers are of more quality, and another thing is that, the Marine corps officer, no matter what your specialty is, you were also trained everyone else’s job, so those— during those six months, you train every job in the Marine Corps. So, in case something happens, you can fill in, in any job, and every other service, you get that qualification, and you can’t crossover easily, but the Marine Corps is made so that your sole job is to take care of Marines “So no matter where we need you, we can put you. Don’t say we didn’t train you.” And then you go to your follow on, after that six month, then you go to Quantico, so I think I went to OCS in February, then April to November I was in Quantico for the finishing school and then November they sent me to Pensacola, so November I was heading down, went to stop in Atlanta, stopped to Tuskegee, got to Pensacola, then they said, “The World Fair is leaving New Orleans, this is the last weekend,” went to that, caught The World’s Fair, which was the last time they had the world’s fair— I can’t remember the last time they had the world’s fair in the United States, so I caught that one, that was in New Orleans and it just so happens that when I got here, they said well actually we got too many Marine s in flight training, you’re going to have to wait here a year before you start, and I said





“Okay” [Laughter]. So, we sat here and just checked in and went to do the exercises and things like that, but eventually I went to legal school in San Diego. So, I was taught to be a military— like a legal liaison for the troops, and then eventually came back and started flight training. So and I got winged in [19]87, so I was here for three years before I got my wings.

	W:	What was that process like? You know, as we talked about the Marine Corps was the last to integrate. What was that experience for you? I know you were in high demand as a pilot, but what was that experience like?

	F:	It was tough, it was tough. Remember I told you that experience I had when I went from an all-Black school to an all-White school when I moved into that new neighborhood where I was the only White-Black person there, and they said “you look different?” Well that’s how it was when you go into the officer corps in the Marine s Corps, because every squadron I was in, I was usually the only Black or the first Black, there wasn’t many, so you go through the training and the Marine Corps has philosophy that there is no Black and White there are only green, we’re all green, but then the Blacks would say “Yeah, but there’s light green and dark green, and we’re dark green,” because you could see the difference. They— some of the people that the Marine Corps would really draw like the Southerners, and things like that, it was tougher for them to kind of accept it initially if they had the choice, but like any band, and the Marine Corps does a good job of trying to ease those tensions to an extent. It eventually comes but it’s tough for a long time, so they have these things called these “peer evals” and the peer evals are: you go through training, but then at the end of each cycle, no matter how short





the cycle is, you name by name the top three people, and the last three people that you feel. So it was always certain people that got picked as the three top, but as you look at the three last people, they were always minorities. And mostly, it was things like “Well they said that you don’t listen to the same music that they listen too,” or like I didn’t do dip, and you know, I tried to learn it, but physically my body just could not take it and I just… I didn’t have dip to offer em’ I didn’t do that, because I didn’t grow up like that, you know it was just things like that you know. It was, it was tough, but once they gained your respect, they had it. You had them, and they would fight to the death for you too, so once they got to know you, they might not like you, they might not like “Your kind,” but if they liked you, they defended you. You know so, that might be an oversimplification in a way, but in a way it’s not.

	W:	Yeah man, that’s interesting.



	F:	It was tough, you stood out. I remember, you were just always that one. So you have officers, and then you have enlisted alright? So the officers were mostly White guys and then the enlisted were a mix of White and Black, but there was a lot of Blacks getting their opportunities and things like that, so when the Black troops, the Black Marines would see this one Black officer, they were like “We don’t know how to act,” “Is he a brother is he real? What’s the deal?” so it’s like then you have to walk that fine line where you couldn’t be too familiar. You’re in an academic thing so it would be like if you were a professor of a class and now you got these Black students, it’s how the Black students relate to you. You can’t be too down because you have to respect the line.





	W:	Diversity and—of the class



	F:	But you can’t make it seem like you giving preferential, but in the same right, they didn’t know how to—sometimes the worst grief I got was from the Black Marines, because they thought I was “Oh, he’s just uppity, yeah how’d he get that position?” I went to college, I went to school, you know that type of thing, and I helped them to go to school, you know I would help them out too, but, so it was just an interesting kind of field. that’s with them, and then I’ve been with the officers in the Marines, there is a fine line— there’s a big line between enlisted and officer, so sometimes— there would be a door for the officers, and a door for the enlisted, something like there used to be the White water fountain and the Black water fountain, so that kind of, you can relate to that from the past. So, I would walk in the officers door and get the look like “Oh okay, you’re that one Black officer we got, okay yeah come on in” [Laughter] It was like “You’re not supposed to—oh okay.” Until they got to know you. Or you go into, there was a Black— officer barber shop and enlisted barber shop, you walked into the officer barber shop and they like “Aren’t supposed to be…? No,” you had to show it, or you walk and you see a White enlisted guy walk past you and it’s like, you look at him, or if you were lucky you were with someone else, they would stop him, and say “You didn’t salute that officer,” “What officer? Oh, I didn’t see him,” No, they saw, they just didn’t think.

	W:	See what they wanted to see.



	F:	Right, they didn’t think this Black guy was an officer. So, after a while of that, then they got to know you, and then they kind of eased up, but it’s like it shouldn’t





have to be that way, you know that type of thing. Where, you know I assumed that anybody could be an officer, anybody could, you know that type of thing, and that kind of happened. It was kind of the same aspect when Barack Obama became president, and it was like “You know we have a Black president now right, so you know we got Black officers now right, we got pilots now right?” You know it’s like so, it was that kind of thing.

	W:	Going to Tuskegee, being on the plane with the chief, did you feel any sort of connection as a pilot and the excellence that they achieved? Did that effect you in any way?

	F:	Oh yeah, yeah because the stuff that I’m talking about now, they went through that. When you read their stories, they went through that and worse, because remember the Tuskegee experiment was to prove that they couldn’t fly. So, technically the Tuskegee experiment failed, but now if you want to be “Technical, technical,” you know there is more than one Tuskegee experiment, alright because the other one had to do with… right. This was the flying part of one of the experiments, and it was to prove that we could not handle the pressure; we could not fly, and it turns out that we did exceedingly well and was one of the best units, so technically that experiment failed. So all the stuff they went through, was basically the same thing because they were segregated also, they were segregated. When Chief Anderson flew with Eleanor Roosevelt and remember the reason why he was with Eleanor Roosevelt is because President Roosevelt couldn’t walk, you know he had polio, so she was his legs, and he told me the story of how the secret service begged her not to get in the airplane. I’m





thinking of— I usually have my iPad with me, I usually have a— he autographed the picture of, that picture with her—

	W:	He did?



	F:	Yeah.



	W:	Wow.



	F:	And he told me the story himself, you know that type of thing. Begged her not to get in that— but she did it anyway and had a good time. If you look at the picture, she is smiling, and having a good time you know that type of thing, and we think that’s how the services got desegregated, and how they got together, because she went back to her husband, the president and said, “Man these guys are just as good as anybody else.” So, you didn’t feel it was the weight of them or what they went through, it was more like they had the weight and you just felt like you need to do it, you wanted to be your best self, and then when I came back as an instructor, then I helped to I think I really encouraged people to do the best they could, and I was fair, because I remember flying with flight instructors that had the rebel flag on their shoulder, on their flight suit, and I knew I wasn’t getting the best deal I could get, but that was just one of those things, that’s who was in control at the time.

	W:	Tell me, you know resiliency and that toughness is something that we hear permeate through a lot of these stories, but where would say, you know like the lady who said, “That Marine guy, you know he’s a tough guy,” where would you say you got your toughness from? Or where did you get that ability to preserver through those challenges.





	F:	I already know; it just depends on how deep you want to get with it. W:	Hey man, the mic is yours.

	F:	Alright, let’s see. So the question basically is “Where do I get the toughness, the resiliency to make it through?”

	W:	Yes.



	F:	It’s like, well how did we get here as a people? It’s because the people, our forefathers were the same way, everybody, even for us to be to this point, cause’ we are relatively well, I was going to say, we are relatively soft compared to what everyone else has been through. But the people came through the middle passage, they said the people who survived the boat trip all the way through, what they went through to even get here. When they got here, and got into— the conditions they were in you know? I’m not even going to use the word slavery, but in the conditions they were in and how they survived and families and things like that, it’s just part of the mental toughness. You were always taught, well we were taught, you got to be twice as good just to get there. We always knew we and you saw that you weren’t getting it— if there was a race from here to the corner, you weren’t starting with everybody else, you were starting from way back. It was just one of those things and that’s just kind of how it came so, it was just to have the opportunity, even like voting I remember people use to, people died to get the right to vote, so just the fact that you can vote, you got to vote.

People used to die to have the opportunity to go to school, and they used to joke about it was illegal to read, you got to do the best you can, you know. So, it was almost like to be in school was a privilege. To go to higher education was even





more of a privilege and now for me to fly airplanes, for anybody that’s cool, but for me, and especially for me cause’ course they tried to talk me out of all of that, even when I was in the Marine Corps, they say, “You might want to think about doing something else. Your people don’t really do well,” I was like, “You mean guys from Jersey? What do you mean?” [Laughter] so they always try to talk you out so you wouldn’t fail per say, but you got to try to fail, and plus I always felt that I could do anything anybody else could do if you teach me. I’m teachable.

Jokingly when somebody says, “Oh you got it!” it’s like, “Yeah, that’s why they keep me around, I’m trainable,” but if you teach someone something, anybody can do it. So it’s not like this group is more enabled to do this in a way, in certain things maybe, but in the long run now you see all that is being merged. There is no, one race is better this that than the other, it’s what you teach people. So, if you teach people fairness, give people an equal break, you’d be surprised what you get. Other way you notice that too is that when you travel overseas, and you see these people that so called from these places that don’t have as much as we have but they’re actually doing more and living better and living healthier than we are. If you go to the Philippines, and these people, the music is better, they build something out of anything, you know how that is. They cook meals out of nothing and it’s delicious, and then you come back— because when I was in the military I would spend time in the Okinawa, Japan and in the Philippines. Those were my first tours, and the I came back to the United States and realized how really with all this education we have over here, how really inadequate people were because they had no practical sense if they couldn’t even read the instructions





when they got the instructions with em’, let alone thinking about building something on their own. It’s like man, it’s almost like we are used to having it too easy, you know? If you go to Jamaica, all the Caribbean islands and things like that, people are living good lives off the water and that type of thing. And, we’re here and if we don’t get our burger at McDonald’s quick enough, we catch a attitude you know what I mean? So it all depends on how you look at it. And maybe now as I’m getting older, I’m seeing it a different way, but even then, when I was younger, I could really see how—you kind of saw how to… if you kept stuff basic and used common sense how things could be a whole lot better. It’s just interesting.

	W:	It is, it is. So, with your wings, how high did you rise within the Marine corps?



And you talked about how you were stationed in the Philippines in and Okinawa. What were some of the places that you have visited.

	F:	Alright well, as far as rank, in the Marine Corps I went to Captain, so you start out as second lieutenant, so second lieutenant, first lieutenant, and captain, is pretty much kind of like guaranteed, and then at that point, you get to the rank where you decide to get out or not. At the time, I was a reservist, so I was not— I was getting out, and they have regular officers, it’s a whole different thing, but they have regular officers and reserved officers, I was still a reserved officer. To become a regular officer, they had to take you in, but a lot of us didn’t become regular officers, they would just—that. So, when I got out, I joined the reserves, and the Air Force was looking for pilots, so since I was already a pilot, and then I went to the Air Force, they were looking for Air Force pilots, and then at the time,





when they had this—diversity, now they are looking for Black pilots, I was one of the few Black pilots, so if they had a Black pilot in the squadron it was worth like two extra points. So, they was like “Oh you’re a Black pilot, sure we’ll take you,” so I flew with the Air Force, and I became a major, so an 04 there, and then at that point I had gotten hired by UPS as pilot, and so as far as 04, I was in the service for seventeen years. So— if I was on that track now, I probably would have been lieutenant colonel colonel, because things are better now, yeah but at that time… Again, being the ranks I was at the time, there was very few, so it was pretty good. Places I’ve flew Okinawa, Japan, Korea, it was mostly what we call Westpac, Philippines, in the Marines, and my Air Force training was mostly local and then flying for UPS, I been basically all around the world, and Africa, but a lot of times, Honolulu, Australia, China, I brought the first iPads over.

	W:	Oh yeah?



	F:	Yeah, when the iPad came out, they sent us to Guangzhou, Chinese city that didn’t speak English, that’s how that was, which was a different story, I’ll tell you that, but and pick up the iPads and flew em’ back. And I say that because that was right, I’ve actually, I’ve been too like the forbidden city. Where I was in the forbidden city and a little baby, a little child looked up and was pointing to her family, and also I looked up and there was a bus, the bus drives by and everyone in the bus they are looking, and then I realize, I’m the first Black person these Chinese people have ever seen live, ever, because they had just opened what they called— they had just opened the market, you know to China and people would walk up and “You hip-hop with me, you hip-hop,” they wanted to talk. They





wanted to talk, these Chinese people were thirsting for English, for the Western ways, and things like that and they were good at it. They were good. I remember being in a club in Taiwan and someone came over and it was night club, and they were playing Tupac. You know how Tupac song is, they knew every word of a Tupac song. I can’t even do that. Tupac, Snoop Dogg, they knew all the words, which means— I mean, I realize how much the Black man is actually valued overseas, more than he is here, but they were thirsting for the Western culture and all like that. It was an awesome time to be there, it was awesome.

	W:	Bet you didn’t have any trouble getting a dance. F:	Well yeah, I guess you could say that.

	W:	Tupac comes on and—



	F:	Yeah, and they look at you and all I have to do is give a thumbs up like “Yeah, you know it,” and they are like “cool.” But they had the converses, they had on the outfit like seems like they were reading up on it and they were like—I was like “This is how you wear it,” and look if you didn’t see the face, the eyes and the skin, you would swear it was a brother underneath there, you know or that type of thing. That’s just how deep they got into it and it’s like we are respected, but if you were to come home, they are like “Oh you got to be careful how you” you know what I mean?

	W:	And what year was this?



	F:	This was like the 2000s this is like recent.





	W:	I ask because you hear that story, I mean you can go far back as maybe World War I, and you hear stories of soldiers and the French, and how they were beloved by the French.

	F:	I was going to bring that up, in France, the billboard, like Halle Berry, is an actress, she does the movies here, and it’s like, you go there in France and she’s all on the billboard, everywhere and things like that. Venus and Serena, Serena big over there, you know that type of thing, its it just big overseas, and remember that’s when Langston Hughes, all those people back then, Baldwin, anything jazz, is big over in France and things like that. Same way, the best music, the best jazz music is over in China. China and a city in Australia has a club called The Basement, best music, you close your eyes, you think you’re listening to like, jazz, like you’re somewhere in Chicago and it’s the local people just loving the music. It’s that culture, if anything you got to do, is you got to travel. You got to travel. Hawaii, if you go to certain sections of Hawaii, you think you’re in Jamaica, because you know how that is, they are, I keep those radio station on my iPhone, they are Haile Selassie all that good stuff man, Bob Marley, all that is in Hawaii.

	W:	Funny you mention that, I spent Christmas in Hawaii. F:	Oh, which part?

	W:	In Wakiki.



	F:	Yeah Wahu—yeah.



	W:	You know, one of these gentlemen he was a veteran too as well. I stayed over there, and he communicated the same thing too as well. Go up to the North Coast and mad love.





	F:	Yeah, yeah. [Laughter].



	W:	Yes, that s a good point. It seems like we have to wrap up, we have this room up until 3:45, man we could go for—

	F:	Oh, I didn’t mean to—



	W:	Oh man you were perfect, you were perfect. I wish we had more time because we could definitely go for about another, I would like to have talked about your experience coming, real quick we can stretch it out for a few minutes. Been all over the world, settled in Pensacola. What has that been like in Pensacola in light of all of the issues that you know that Pensacola is experiencing or has experienced, what has that been like?

	F:	Alright, well first of all, I am blessed enough to where I have more than one home, so I have a house in New Jersey, I am married, my wife is still working, so she’s at the house in New Jersey, where my mother and father still are. Then I have a house here in Pensacola and things like that, but Pensacola with the beach, it’s just a beautiful place, but also Pensacola is slower, it still has those kind of Southern values that I know if I were to break down on the side of the road, someone’s going to help, you know? But I feel there is a need that people need to get that education that I had, so I kind of teach them my— or I nudge my Northern ways or stress of education, because it is a place where you can actually become invisible if the people don’t get the education and strive for the knowledge they should have. So, it’s a great place, I love the people, and then the temperature is great and things like that. So it’s actually a healthy place to be.





	W:	What do you think in light of all the climate, in light of socially, economically, how we have progressed, and what do you think of the current state of affairs?

	F:	Well, economically, if you want to really live here in Pensacola and do well, you have to have a global economy. You can’t base all of your income out of Pensacola. It’s a good place to come back to so you have to find a bigger market where you get your income to come stay here. But socially, it’s moving, but it’s slow, it’s slow, but, it has a lot of natural resource; a good place you can build upon. I think we’re doing that. You know I’m the founder of that flight academy, Chappie James Flight Academy.

	W:	Oh, you are?



	F:	Yeah, I’m the program director so, that’s what we’re doing with our program, is introducing people to all different kinds of things. The first day of class we ask them, “What do you want to be?” Teacher, Lawyer, things like that. We find them teachers, and lawyers so they can actually learn their dream, cause’ we’re not trying to make pilots, we just want you to be whatever you can do, but by the end of the course, we teach you to fly an airplane. So, at the end we say, “If you can learn how to fly an airplane in a week, you can anything you put your mind to.” And that, is what’s going to make you successful, putting your mind into something positive and doing it.

	W:	Well said.



	F:	So, once you’ve enriched the people, you’ve enriched your environment, now you have people who live in a nice place and they don’t want to lose it. That’s when you live in a place where no one cares, that’s when you have the problems.





	W:		Yes. Well Mr. Fowlkes, thank you for your time, thank you for your service, thank you for your story.

	F:	Thank you Mr. Winchester. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Aysia Gilbert March 17, 2021 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero May 18, 2021 Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 18, 2021