AAHP 254; Battle-Baptiste; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 254 Whitney Battle-Baptiste African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Justin Dunnavant on March 14, 2012 37 minutes | 18 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Dr. Whitney Battle-Baptiste discusses her childhood in the Bronx and her journey within the field of archaeology as a Black woman. She is fluent in Mandarin because she attended kindergarten in Taipei and her mother studied Asian Studies and taught at the University of Taipei. Dr. Battle-Baptiste earned a bachelor’s in high school education at Virginia State University and began her master’s in history at the College of William and Mary with the intention of becoming a history teacher. She ended up leaving William and Mary to do a full-time internship at the Department of Archaeological Research at Colonial Williamsburg. She completed her PhD in archaeology at the University of Texas at Austin. In terms of her professional career, Dr. Battle-Baptiste has worked at numerous archaeological sites around the United States and teaches at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.



Keywords: [African American History; College of William and Mary; archaeology; University of Texas at Austin; University of Massachusetts Amherst]







































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 254

Interviewee: Whitney Battle-Baptiste Interviewer: Justin Dunnavant

Date of Interview: March 14, 2012



	D:	Just for introduction my name is Justin Dunnavant and I’m here with Dr. Whitney Battle-Baptiste. The date today is March 14, 2012 and we’re at the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program office. So if we could just start, could you give a little background as to where you’re from, where you grew up?

	B:	Yeah. I was born in New York City, Manhattan, raised in the Bronx. My mom was also from the Bronx. My dad was from southeast Washington, D.C. And I grew up in a very Afrocentric, Black Nationalist kind of global, with Africa at the center, kind of world. And my grandparents, who also lived in New York—my mother’s parents, were both from North Carolina. So there was an interesting blend of the South and [Laughter] understanding what the South was but being second generation Bronx also which really lent itself to different kinds of dialog between my mom and my grandmother. You know about how to raise this little girl. And so I always had a sense of New York as like the center of the world because New York had so much to it. It was the world and then my mom and my dad split and my mom went and got her master’s in Asian studies with a concentration on Chinese. And so we actually—my grandparents did not approve—but she picked up and as a graduate she went to teach at University of Taipei in Taiwan. And I went to kindergarden in Taipei and I was fluent in Mandarin. I don’t speak it now. [Laughter] So that was an experience but the part I do remember more is coming back to the Bronx and only wanting to speak Mandarin and being a little Black girl speaking Mandarin in the Bronx was not—

	D:	Xie xie doesn’t translate. [Laughter]







	B:	Yeah. No your name is not Bow wei-d. It’s Whitney. So, yeah it was a little bit of struggle coming back because I remember being teased a lot. I remember it being a little bit embarrassing and my mom tried to maintain it, you know taking me to Saturday Mandarin classes and I kind of rebelled. After about a year she just gave up and so we stopped doing it especially because it was out in Queens and I was the only non-Chinese anything in the school. So that was also a challenge and so I kind of buried that deep in my psyche. And I also grew up with a diasporic sense of self in terms of African diaspora. I guess pretty soon after that my mom became involved in the African traditionalist community in New York City. So I grew up among Santeros and Yoruba priests and priestesses and etc. etc. And my mother was initiated and I was young and then high school, college I went off and then I did my life and came back and then I was initiated.

And then I married an initiate person who was also in our community. Yeah actually our children are third generation growing up in that religious African tradition—

D:   Is that Ife or Santeria?



	B:	Yeah it’s Ife but it’s actually more Lucumi D:	Oh okay.

	B:	So it’s not Santeria but it is. So it’s actually the Lucumi line that a lot of Black nationalists—a couple of them had gone to Havana to become initiated and brought it back to the U.S. and then at that point African Americanws began to be initiated in the late [19]60s into Lucumi on U.S. soil. So that was like the first time that that happened. So I’m from that line of people that were doing it. And one of







those people Baba Sergemon was the one that started and he since passed of course but he’s the one that started the Outunji Village that was in South Carolina. But that was a faction. So there are several factions—so I’m from that core group of people who—and as a child that core group of people, the folks I grew up with, my kind of generational cohort you know ranges from my folks who grew up polygamous households to folks who were in the East and a bunch of nationalists organizations all about the revolution and then shifted to completely dismissing Christianity as a means and then started to look to things like Lucumi and Yoruba and Vodou and Akan and stuff like that. So you know that has been around since I was six, seven years old so all of us kind of grew up in it. Some of us were initiated as children and some of us our parents didn’t kind of force that on us so we did it later on.

	D:	Yeah I was wondering cause I know a Black scholars historically have been initiated or gone through some initiation process from Dr. John Henrik Clarke to more contemporary Dr. Bunseki Fu-Kiau and so forth, and I was wondering did you go through the initiation process during your colligate career or after college or in between?

	B:		I was actually in graduate school and I joke because I say my initiation year was probably the most peaceful, cooled out—I think that’s why I finished my dissertation. Because it was a very contemplative moment and I was in a place at Texas where it wasn’t completely foreign and sometimes people were so curious that it was a little annoying. You know like, what are you doing? Why are you wearing white all the time? What are those beads and those bracelets? To







people actually allowing me the space to appreciate my initiation period, which might not have been the case if I had been somewhere else. So you know I was at the right place, it was the right time. And it was a little rough cause I had to travel to New York kind of frequently from Texas but you know we made it happen. But yeah, that was when it happened before I finished graduate school. I had completed that year. Yeah.

	D:	So let’s back track a little bit if we could to I guess your time in college you started out as a history major at Virginia State University?—

	B:	Yeah, Virginia State University. D:	What was that like?

	B:	Well I remember the first history class I took. The professor actually said that Christopher Columbus discovered America. That was like my first class. And it was like the first class, the first twenty minutes after the introduction, here’s the syllabus and then she said this. And I raised my hand immediately like wow, I know we’re not learning this colonized stuff and I failed that class. Yeah it was okay. But I wanted to do contemporary Africa. I wanted to understand the African continent. It was like I wanted to not understand it in this mythical way, like I really wanted to understand the politics of nations and independence and all this. So that’s kind of what I started out and then I decided, well I need a job so I’ll just do high school education. So I did secondary education with emphasis on history and most of my other classes were contemporary Africa, which I had to kind of seek out at Virginia State. There weren’t a whole lot of them. No anthropology at all.







	D:	Were there study groups of people there that you congealed around that kind of had a similar mind set as you that helped get you through that process or was it a lonely road [Laughter]?

	B:	Not really. I mean I was young and there as a performative moment of you know my ghetto identity that I was still claiming. So I couldn’t really let people know I was really that deep and then also there was an element of—it was just the times. It was apartheid was going on. It was anti-apartheid movement and I had, like I said—before I go on. In high school, like you know everybody had Reeboks and I couldn’t. I liked Tropicana juice but I couldn’t buy it you know my mom was adamant about divestment. She was adamant about what we could and could not purchase to bring in our home and it just was like you know we run out of gas, can we just go to the Shell station, it’s right there? No we’re gonna find a gas station that’s not in South Africa and so that was kind of what I grew up with and I was away from it and when we began to be protesting places that were not divesting, like our college. You know it was like someone gave a blow horn and I was in it and I was like wow, wow, wow it’s not what I was supposed to be doing. I’m supposed to be apathetic. I’m supposed to be you know I don’t really care about all of this, I’m just trying to be cool. But what it really was, it was like no this is a movement we’ve got to do something about it. So yeah I did get a little involve in that and—

	D:	How did that lead you into archaeology then or how did you get into archaeology from undergrad or was it in grad school?







	B:	Well yeah it was in grad school, I didn’t know anything about archaeology and towards the end of my undergraduate reign or career—and as a senior I pledged a sorority and that was interesting. Alpha Kappa Alpha.

	D:	Okay.



	B:	As a senior I was on my way out, so it was kind of like I wanted to do it because to me it was a lifetime thing, it wasn’t just for undergrad. But that was a good support system that I needed as I went on to William and Mary is where I went to graduate school for my master’s. Because what happened was—you know here I was this big fish in this little pool of Virginia State. And then it was time to make a decision my junior year, what am I gonna do? Like towards the end of my junior year or it was actually my first senior year, I should say cause I took five years.

And what I noticed was that okay either I’m my gonna go to Peace Corps, I’m going to become a high school teacher, or I’m gonna go to graduate school and I literally had all three of those options like laid out on my floor, like applications, Peace Corps application. And ultimately I decided graduate school and I got into the College of William and Mary but I also got a summer teaching assistant position digging at a site outside of Williamsburg. I didn’t know what that meant, I had never dug, I don’t know anything about archaeology except Indian Jones at this point and I was a little bit wary of—I don’t know if they know I don’t know anything about this but that site turned out to be Maria Franklin’s dissertation site. And so it was kind of the incentive for me to come to William and Mary. I had full funding at William and Mary and this T.A-ship opportunity that had a stipend it covered for room and board. I was like oh okay this is a good deal I don’t know







what I’m doing. So I literally just fell, no fell—but it was a recruitment tool but also I was beginning to get a sense of I didn’t know what I wanted to do with history if I wasn’t gonna be a teacher, a high school teacher. And so that kind of complicated it and that’s why graduate school, okay this might help me out. At least I’ll teach on a college level, history. And then the summer was incredible.

There were Anna Agbe-Davies who’s at UNC now, was there. Cheryl LaRoche was there, off and on. Wyonne Edwards-Ingram who’s still at William and Mary teaching. Maria Franklin, myself, Steve Rusowski from U-Mass Boston was there and Marley Brown was the director of archaeology. It was the height of plantation archaeology. It was the height of people really shifting from this African-American sensibility to looking exclusively at diasporic element so there’s people still looking for Africanisms in the ground. But it was an exciting moment and it was like—and Maria gave me basically two or three days to figure it out. She was here this is what you gotta do, don’t mess up, and I was like what?. [Laughter] Are you crazy? But I stepped up cause you know and that’s why I bring up pledging a sorority because it was like you get a task, you do it.

	D:	[Laughter] It’s that process.



	B:	I understand the process. So I was pledged in a really quick time period and I did it. And then the student came—cause I had to act like I knew what I was doing right cause I was a teaching assistant right. So you know it worked out—and I actually write about this story a little bit in my blog and I talk about it because I then went back for the fall to William and Mary, the Department of History and it was like, I thought I was in paradise at Colonial Williamsburg foundation. I mean







it was a great exchange. It was great people, learning so much. The first time I was actually digging and finding stuff, was like, you know it’s like euphoric. I mean it was like incredible to touch the stuff that people were touching or talk to people about what these could be and I’m reading these incredible readings for the first time that I’ve never been exposed to and it was just eye opening. And then the semester starts and then I get craziness racism. You know it’s like, oh okay why did I do this. And so I had a twenty-hour a week internship at the Department of Archaeological Research at Colonial Williamsburg and so I was there more than I need to be, but that was really my sanctuary away from just the brutality of the History Department and the isolation that I felt in the History Department. And then I also reached back and it was my sorority, it was my Virginia State family, it was my family back in New York that really kind of got me through that year. And then I kind of just opted not to stay at William and Mary and then worked full-time at Colonial Williamsburg for a year or so. And then I remember meeting with Maria [Franklin] and she just saying so you’re just gonna dig for the rest of your life or you’re gonna get that Ph.D.? Well I don’t know about this Ph.D. thing, you know I’m burned, I don’t want to do it. And she said well come with me to Texas. I was like, I’m not going to Texas that’s crazy. ‘Cause she had gotten the job and did a year in North Carolina as a post-doc and was like, no really you need to come with me to Texas. And so I said, alright I guess I’ll go. And that was the year before I started working at the Hermitage as a supervisor. So that was like after the summer I was digging in Boston by the Africa Meeting House, I was at the Hermitage, I was at Colonial Williamsburg. So







it was a jam packed archaeology summer and I could do this for the rest of my life. And she’s like, no you really would not want to do this for the rest of your life. [Laughter] You really want to do something else. And so she had gotten the job that year so she said, look you got a year, apply. And so I did and long story short, I ended up at Texas and was still working at the Hermitage but it was good because I went to a Ph.D. program with a site. I had the site. And it was within that second year of me being supervisor when Larry McKee really pulled me aside and said, you need to dig this site the way you want to dig it. And that was the beginning of me understanding that I really did have a different voice and I had a different line of questioning than the archaeologists I had ever exchanged with. And that was because of what I came in with but also that first summer at Colonial Williamsburg when those are the kinds of questions and conversations we had because we had, at one point, five Black women on a site. That does—it still doesn’t happen—

	D:	Right that’s Irene Mound all over again. [Laughter]



	B:	Yeah it doesn’t happen and we all are completely different people but that exchange was very, very different. And I kind of kept that at bay to a certain extent and I wrote the dissertation and I fulfilled the obligations and jumped the hoops but you know writing the book that I wrote I couldn’t write it as an archaeologist for an archaeologist. I had wrote articles about the Hermitage, enough so why would I write a book about it? It just didn’t make sense to me to do that and I would not have, I think, been able to stomach writing about it anymore than a chapter. I said, I’ll give it a chapter because there were some







things that I had been thinking through differently that I had been processing, that I had to get out of my head kind of. And Zora Neale Hurston talks about some of the worst pain to carry those words in you without ever letting them go. So that was kind like part of that motivation, like yeah, I’ve got to let it go but how do I do it? And then it was like okay, if I write about DuBois, I’ve never put a shovel or a trowel or anything at that site, how do I write about it? I’ve never dug Lucy Foster’s Homestead, how do I write about it? That was done in the [19]40s. And then the irony is when I was writing the book trying to do the research, all the artifacts were locked away because that entire museum was getting completely remodeled for a year. I was like, really? [Laughter] The year I’m writing the book is when you all—and so it’s a good and a bad thing because I have a student that is doing a dissertation where he is actually looking to reanalyze some key sites.

He like, well you’ve already done Lucy Foster. I was like, no. I’m doing a story of Lucy Foster; you can reanalyze the artifacts that Baker did, using a very different lens. Five different people can look at the same assemblage and five different things and still contribute to the larger discussion of archaeology. So that, I’m like yeah, no you’re stepping on anybody’s toes and there’s a lot of stuff out there in Massachusetts that I have recently come to understand as challenging cause my fear was I was so plantation centric when I came to U Mass. I was touting at the job talk, yeah I’m going to help Bob Paynter at the DuBois and he was excited because he was like, okay now the work can continue without just me doing it.

This is great. This is exactly what I needed, what I wanted. And I’m like, race in Massachusetts or New England? That’s like, what is that? And yeah, it’s







complex. Race in New England is complex on a lot of levels. The denial of the existence of generation of people is, in itself, amazing to me. And that’s a part of some of the conversations that I want to have with Black people. Like what is it like? [Laughter] I’m from New York. I’m not from New England, it’s very different. Those conversations are important because it also allows people to hear themselves talk but then hopefully, eventually that turns into actually hearing their voices in the stories that are being told and that’s like the ultimate—hopefully what archaeologists would want. ‘Cause to me, and I’ve been kind of talking about this at different places, an archaeology for the living is the only way that archaeology is gonna survive. Because if we don’t get more young people to really think about—and young people from underserved and underrepresented communities—if we don’t get folks from those communities then the work of archaeology is just going to be about the work of archaeology. It’s not gonna—

	D:	And I remember in your book, you mention how there’s that idea of that perceived social impact that really led you into it and I know Dr. St. Claire Drake said that was one of the reasons he got into anthropology. And I noticed that’s a common trend for Black scholars. But going to UT-Austin, I noticed at Black archaeologists or every Black student in graduate school always runs through their mind through their mind about how many other Black people are there out there doing this. So I was wondering going through UT-Austin, how many other Black students were there or Black professors were there in the field when you were going through that process? Did you ever—

	B:	In the field in general?







	D:	Well just in graduate program around the country or teaching, working in the field.

	B:	Oh not many. A lot of us were in school at the same time. Maria was kind of ahead of Anna [Agbe-Davies] and Paula [Saunders]. Wyonne kind of was back and forth with school and then she finished and then Cheryl was older and went back. So like a lot of us overlapped and then I’ve actually met—you know virtually, by email, two or three other women whom I didn’t know, Black women archaeologists. One actually does work in more prehistoric stuff but she actually is out of Binghamton and wrote a review of the book which she sent me, which was cool ‘cause it was like—she was like yeah, how do I not know you? And we both kind of said that same thing. [Laughter]

	D:	Who was it?



	B:	You have to look her up at Binghamton. She’s at Binghamton University and her name is completely—

	D:	Kathleen Sterling? B:	Yes!

	D:	Okay.



	B:	Do you know her?



	D:	Yeah, she just contacted the Society for Black Archaeologists asking for Ayana’s contact information so. [Laughter]

	B:	Okay, yeah and so yeah. I had never heard of her but she does prehistoric stuff? D:	I believe so.







	B:	Yeah but still she was like still even though we might not do the same, we should know each other, this is crazy. So you know the numbers fluctuate. Terry Weik and you know there’s Akin Agundarin and I always joke with Akin because I met him that first summer when I was digging all over the place when he was at BU, and I was digging in Boston. So we’ve known each other since [19]96. And I joke with him, I was like I don’t count you cause you’re African. [Laughter] He’s like, what?! I said, okay you’re Nigerian, but still you can’t be in the African American catalog. He’s like but I’m an African in America. I said, okay fine. [Laughter] And then I said I don’t count Wyonne because she’s Jamaican, and so we always joke about splitting these diasporic hairs but with Ph.D.s it’s like twenty-five.

	D:	I counted about twenty-six today.



	B:	Did you? Cause, I’ve been trying—and my numbers have been messed up cause I know like Peggy Brunache just finished. And then technically Wyonne and Cheryl don’t have Ph.D.s in anthropology but they’re archaeologists, so I always kind of count them. Yeah I mean and I guess Michael Blakey wouldn’t be an archaeologist.

	D:	Yeah it’s a fine line. [Laughter]



	B:	I mean he’s engaged—and also being the one thing it has benefitted is giving me a great relationship with Warren Perry which is really cool to be so close to him, so that we go down there and he comes up and talk to my class. And to have him talk to my class about the African Burial Ground is a great experience for my students ‘cause I can show them a film, I can talk about it and it’s such an impactful thing but when they actually talk or hear Warren Perry talk about it, it’s







like wow! Yeah his performance, he captures them. I teach an Anthropology of Slavery course that I’m trying to make into a gen-ed class, which would make it a bigger class. It’s one of those things that I’m kind of back and forth and I don’t know what’s holding me back but I feel like it’s really necessary to have a really concise understanding and I was gonna do slavery through time and I changed my mind and said no, no, no I want to do African slavery, African diasporic stuff, the slavery that I do. I’m not trying to encompass everything, we’re gonna talk about it because it’s such a relevant aspect of who we are today, but we’re not talking about that connection. And so no one thinks about it. So if it’s a general education course, people from across campus take that and you force them—

	D:	To experience it.



	B:	So we’ll see how that goes.



	D:	Definitely. I was talking to Dr. Faye Harrison when I first got here and she mentioned as a student of Dr. St. Claire Drake, Drake actually pulled her aside and actually gave her additional readings on top of the other students because he wanted her to be grounded in the Black literature that was going through the time. So I was wondering, there were any scholars that you clung to that were not definitely in the anthropological background or archaeological background but that influence a lot of the work that you do or a lot of the work that you did?

	B:	Toni Morrison. Zora is an anthropologist. Literature, I mean big time. Toni Morrison, Gayle Jones, Michelle Wallace, Patricia Hill-Collins, Deborah Grey- White. So initially I used literature as kind of an escape and a grounding when I was going through whatever I was going through at William and Mary and I just







looked at them as recuperative. Like you know helping me read through stuff and okay, feeling connected with my past and DuBois for that matter, my past of reading these things. Like I went to school and I did my thing and it wasn’t Virginia State where I started to read Black people and Black people’s words, it was growing up when these books were in my home. So of course I know who St. Claire Drake was, of course I knew who DuBois was you know. I knew who Marcus Garvey was in much more of an intellectual sense than just a movement. I had read Alex Haley’s Malcolm X you know, I knew very young. And that’s what angered me when I first when into archaeology, and I’m sitting around talking with these people who are digging at a site and, what, what do you mean you don’t know any of these—you don’t know who John Hope Franklin is? … should I be insulted that you don’t know the history of African Americans and you’re digging at a site where Africans in America were? You know, like that was that disjunction, this moment of—but I have to know your history and my history. So if you’re gonna dig a site, you should know my history and whatever else you know.

	D:	[Laughter] Right.



	B:	And that was also reinforced not only by my mom but my grandmother. My grandmother grew up in rural North Carolina, where it was a one-room house with Black teachers who were trained at Black colleges like Virginia State that went down there—she went to a Rosenwald school and she learned Black history. And then she had to pick cotton and not go to school. So she was versed in Black history in a very different sense, I mean her—if I were to call my







grandmother a Black feminist, she would roll over her grave. [Laughter] I don’t know what that is. Don’t put that label on me baby, I don’t. Yeah so you gotta be careful sometimes with all the zeal and zest and then like putting that back on the past, it’s always you know—but with a disclaimer, I would do it. Because women in my life were feminists, and you know to a certain extent I’ve had to defend that claim of Black feminist. And that was my three years at Cornell, two of them I was there with Michelle Wallace. And I rolled up on campus and she was there and people told me, be careful. She’s a dynamo, she’s a powerhouse but just don’t get on her bad side, blah, blah, blah. We hung tight for two years. I mean I joke with her, she’s my intellectual auntie. She really pulled me out and allowed me to walk with my head held high and call myself a Black feminist and not be afraid. Cause before that I was still with the womanist and man. I don’t have any problem with womanist. I don’t have problems with Africana womanists. I don’t have a problem with African feminist, African womanist, Caribbean Afro- descended, ‘cause for me that’s the beauty of feminisms because there’s an “s” at the end of that because there’s so many different gradations of it. And feminisms are big enough to encompass all of it. It’s just that all those people involved are not gonna claim, or no don’t connect me to that. But yeah it was really Michele Wallace’s—my personal interaction with her that kind of helped me you know worked through that being uncomfortable kind of thing.

	D:	I think we got about five minutes left, so I just want to ask you real quick. I know you’re digging DuBois childhood home now.

	B:	Uh-huh.







	D:		Are there any sites that you would like to dig in the future? Maybe sites that you saw in the past that you wish you had gotten to or sites in the future that you hope to get to or hope somebody does get to or research questions?

	B:	Oh God. Next week I’m going to the Bahamas to take a tour from some descendants of a five hundred acre plantation down in the Aluthra Bahamas, and I’m not sure but that might be a seasoning plantation, which is a whole other, that’s a whole other. I’ve got to do the oral—I’ve to put my feet on the ground.

I’ve got to show my face. It’s gonna take a couple of times. So that project is kind of out there. I’d love to, in a perfect world, and this is where Akin Agundarin and I hopefully will meld in some way, I’d love to do some work in Nigeria in Yorubaland. As a diasporic Yoruba traditionalist, I’d like to do stuff. Cuba, and so the Caribbean and Latin American. I mean Latin America is—I’m about to merge with some serious stuff going on with Afro-descendancy in Latin America. It’s hot. I mean when I say it’s popping right now, as if folks of Afro-descent are literally looking to the continental U.S. to be like look we’re here, recognize us, let’s exchange. And so one of my colleagues at U-Mass is really trying to push me to say, he said, I don’t want you to become a Latin Americanist. What I want you do is, I want you to take Black feminist archaeology and I want you to train the Afro- descent folks down there to do that kind of work. And I never put it in that perspective, like I never thought about it. He said, but what you’re doing is it’s a methodological shift, it can work anywhere. And so that’s kind of the trajectory, and for that, I can move that anywhere I want. But I don’t know, I’d like to see what happens with this Eleuthera project, and then I just want to get to Ghana. I







don’t know what that becomes and what it morphs into the project. I’m in this mode of I’m almost at tenure, so I’ve got to write grants and I’ve got to do this. How do you write a grant of a concept that’s so kind of deep that you’re still working through it? And that’s the beauty of doing this for a lifetime. And that’s the beauty of the diaspora and the curse of it. ‘Cause it’s so vast and out there.

	D:	Cool. We’ll thanks again for the interview. B:	Thank you.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Justin Dunnavant, April 26, 2013 Audit edited by:	Anna Jimenez, April 28, 2014 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019