AAHP 166A; Fay; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 166 Thomas Holland Fay African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Ryan Morini on March 23, 2011 2 hours, 45 minutes | 74 pages



Abstract: Tom Fay is a White man interviewed for AAHP because his family home is in the southern, historically-White part of the Pleasant Street Historic District, most of which is a historically-Black neighborhood that used to be part of what was known as the 5th Avenue neighborhood. He relates his family history in considerable detail, and he also relates his memories of segregation in Gainesville and his limited interactions with the Black community. Dr. Fay discusses his years attending the University of Florida, his service in the US Army during World War II, and some of his time living in New York and interacting with Julliard students, including a young Leontine Price.





[Keywords: African American History; Heritage]





















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 166A

Interviewee: Thomas Fay Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: March 23, 2011



	M:	So, it’s customary for me to introduce—this is Ryan Morini, I’m sitting here with Tom Fay in his—is this the living room, or the—?

	F:	Parlor.



	M:	Parlor. In the parlor. It’s March 23rd, 2011. All right, so if you’d like to start with just when you were born?

	F:	Well, first of all my name is Tom Fay, but that’s sort of short for Thomas Holland Fay.

	M:	Okay.



	F:	Allegedly a sixth; most certainly a junior! [Laughter] That much we know about. Except, this my—actually, I’m a third, because my grandfather was also Thomas Holland Fay, as my father before me. And the legend, of course, is it goes back three generations before that. Had nothing to do with the Dutch, so where Holland came from, I don’t know; but I notice it floating around in England a lot. Holland park, my friend Dusty Springfield lives on Holland Park. [Laughter] I was astounded and amazed to find that there. My name is Thomas Holland Fay. I was born on September 14th, 1926, at Mrs. Lee’s Hospital for Ladies, which was a birthing center, because the Alachua County Hospital had not yet been built. It came around about two years later, and that grew into Alachua General Hospital, and then to Shands at AGH, Alachua Hospital Group. And it’s now completely flattened, doesn’t exist anymore. So Mrs. Lee, who’s the office nurse for Doctor Depass—who was the first medical director of the Alachua General Hospital when it came along—birthed his babies in her home, which was on what we





would call Southwest 7th Street now, just off between University Avenue and Southwest 2nd Avenue. We called it Wilson Street. So, that’s where I was born. It ultimately came adjacent to the playing grounds of the Gainesville High School, which existed on that block facing University Avenue, which went all the way through to 2nd Avenue. The large playing field is there. I could look always from the game into the backside of the house where I was born, and routinely, I think I was born in the upstairs back porch. [Laughter] So, I could I see the room I was born in. Even funnier, when I eat at the 706 West University Avenue restaurant— called 706—and the young lady asks me where I would like to be seated. And I say, “So I can see where I was born.” Always knocks her out, because she goes, “That, well, that’s the Ayers parking lot. [Laughter] Which is what it happens to be at present time, except the Ayers building is still there but not functioning in the same way. So, there’s my history of my birth. It took place somewhere in that large block, in what would be now called the southwest part of town. I was carried back to Cedar Key, where my mother and father lived for a while, but not until after the first two weeks of my life there, at Mrs. Lee’s Hospital for the Ladies, was spent—what I would now call “lollygagging.” They were keeping my mother there, ostensibly because there was a problem of some kind with me.

The real reason for it was that my grandmother, who lived here in this very house we’re talking about, wanted very much to have my mother and father moved back from Cedar Key, where they had been living. And so, during this period, while my mother was in detention, the bedroom on the backside of the house was actually built in a two-week period and added on to the back porch adjacent





to the old bathroom which had been added on when they moved into the house. That induced them to come back here. I was carried into this house at the age of two weeks, for the first time, by a wonderful neighbor, Martha Tyson Boering, who was one of my mother’s closest friends. They joined the Presbyterian church choir together, did all kinds of wonderful things together. She was a dear beloved friend until the day she died in her late nineties. That is the story of my birth.

Which has absolutely nothing to do with the rest of the family, does it? No. [Laughter] Well, it had to with my grandmother, who was a very central feature in all of this. My grandmother was Emma Alice Powell, born in Micanopy in 1863.

	The daughter of Major Benjamin William Powell—did I say “Major?” M:	You did.

	F:	That’s exactly incorrect. M:	Okay.

	F:	It was captain. Captain Powell, of course. He was an 1851 graduate of the Citadel. And upon graduation, he moved from South Carolina—where almost everybody came from in those days—to Micanopy, to start a new life. We’ll get back to Captain Powell later on, because of his major role in lining up the militia during the Civil War, then carting the boys from Micanopy off to war. That was one of his major roles in life. But he had a large number of children. My grandmother was one of them, and she married a guy named Thomas. He died after giving her two children, a boy and girl. She then married my grandfather, Thomas Holland Fay, who ostensibly died before my father was born, but as I later learned, went off on a fishing trip and didn’t come back. So, that accounted





for a seven year wait between my father’s birth and that marriage, and the year before, to a man named, Minet Bacon Saunders, who was, by that time, 1904, a very, very successful, prominent grocery store operator and figure in the city. He was not political by any means, but he was a major figure in the Presbyterian church as an elder and director of the Sunday school, that kind of thing. My grandmother has been a major Presbyterian all of her life, and I really want to come back to that particular point sometime in the future, because Captain Powell and his wife, my great-grandparents, gave the land for the first church in Micanopy, which is a Presbyterian church. Maybe not the first church in Micanopy, but certainly the first Protestant church to be in central Florida, the interior of Florida. So that’s a major story that I’d like to come back to and talk about that at some later time: the founding of Presbyterian churches in the central part of Florida. And since the Presbyterian church was the first one to be built, they started it all, and my great-grandfather played a major role in that. So, that accounts for the inherent, intense Presbyterianism with my grandmother, and the absolute delight in marrying Mynet Bacon Saunders who was equally ferocious about being a Presbyterian. [Laughter] Why? I’ve never been able to figure out, because nobody ever sat me down and said, “This is why we’re Presbyterian.” I guess they just assumed that I would know it. Well, to this day I don’t, and that accounts for maybe why I’ve sort of drifted away from it over the years. But I think that it was probably music that caused me to drift away from it.

	M:	Music?





	F:	Music, yes, uh-huh. The music was good in the First Presbyterian Church here in Gainesville, and it’s always been the best, from the very beginning. And still is.

Always had the best choir. Didn’t always have the best organist, didn’t always have the best organ, but now it certainly does. [Laughter] But it began by having the best, and then things, time and entropy, took care of all the ensuing years, coming and going in music. But that figured very, very centrally in my life, was being able to sing very early on during cradle-room choir, of screaming babies. [Laughter] I was known as being the loudest screamer in the cradle-room at the Presbyterian Church. Enough to say that this family was a crucial part of the First Presbyterian Church here, it was a block away from us. It’s just a central part. I grew up in that milieu, and was delighted and happy about, it was a wonderful time. Of course, Preacher Gordon, the magnificent central figure in that church for forty years, and the leading clergyman in these parts for forty years, came when I was three years old—came to town when I was three years old. A tall, towering, incredibly handsome man with a marvelous voice, tinged with the beauty of Southern speech, but rectified by accuracy—from which he could lapse at will to the most marvelous Southernness. [Laughter] Emerged from that in the most magnificent general American speech, understandable by all. The man could use his speech to winnow his way into any situation, and like rats, they would follow along. [Laughter] That was why the Presbyterian Church was so meaningful to me, probably because of the central figure of this person. But I mention him because I was three years old. And when I was first introduced to him, I just did not make the distinction between him and God. [Laughter] So, for a





year or two, every time I said my prayers at night, I was praying to this figure that was actually Preacher Gordon. And I think that I’m not the only one, by any means, who did that, because of the way he affected our entire community. I had the privilege of being a part of the oral history project of Preacher Gordon himself, but after the fact, the records were in bad shape, and Mrs. Billy Matthews—D.R. Billy Matthews, one of our great politicians and representatives in Congress, his wife and I resurrected the thing, because she and Billy had done the oral history for the Matheson Museum. And it was very spotty, and it needed somebody who knew him and who understood and could interpret a lot of things and get them back on the track. And that was the role that I played in that. And the two of us, after Billy’s death, revived and completely restructured the thing based on the original tapes. And it’s interesting that that can be done. We were very, very strict in the way we did that. No serious interpretations. If we couldn’t figure out what he meant, we said so. [Laughter] So, Preacher Gordon’s oral history is intact that way, he’s on it of course and it’s just wonderful to hear him go. So, if you ever want to hear Preacher Gordon, pull out that tape. I have many tapes of his sermons, and they’re quite wonderful. All right, now, that’s why I was a Presbyterian from birth, and as far as affiliation is concerned, I will remain a Presbyterian until my death—regardless of whether I actually think I’m going to heaven or any other place. That’s almost irrelevant. [Laughter] I’m still a Presbyterian by name; I have no idea what that means by meaning.

	M:	Fair enough.





	F:	I think I understand the intent of it all and that is to keep us on as good as central tract of piety, and decency, and concern for fellow man as possible. And that’s what I’ve gotten out of it. And I’m truly grateful for that, because it was not only the structure I encountered in this house, it was family while I was growing up.

But it was the one that I moved directly into as soon as I went over to the church. It was the same. And there was no conflict there. A great way to grow up—just like this was a great neighborhood to grow up in, at the time. In 1926, this house was pretty much on the edge of this downtown district. We were bounded on the west by the T&J railroad tracks, the Tampa and Jacksonville tracks. That was one of its many names. That track existed until—I don’t remember the year in which it was torn up, but I do remember when the station was built, when the tracks were moved from Main Street—everybody knows that the main passenger line ran right straight through the middle of town, north-south on Main Street, from beginning to end. And the station was directly east of this house on Main Street, three blocks east of Main Street. And that’s where the train stopped, passenger trains. The freight trains—on the 6th Street line—were going back and forth all the time. It was a local dummy train that would move things in and out.

And this being a wonderful truck growing area. The produce from the fields were brought to the packing house there, just at the end of Orange Street, 2nd Avenue here over on the north side of my house. So, I could always wander down there in the summer, and pick up a few culls, they were called—mostly cucumbers— that were either too large and didn’t fit the program, or too small, or too runny.

And there were always a couple of people, mostly my Black acquaintances there,





we’d be there about the same time with that croker sack, picking up culls. And they’d live off those things. Us little boys would go down there and just have a cool cuke. [Laughter] Imagine eating a cucumber when you’re a little boy! [Laughter] Oh, my goodness! But they were cooling and delicious. And the only alternative for us was—if you had a nickel—was the snowball man who came along 3rd Street here, which of course at the time was Arredondo Street, long before the street names were done away with and numbers were put on. Fat old fellow; was a Greek who had very, very little English, but he didn’t need it.

Because he had large block of ice on a big wagon that he had built himself, with two rickety old tires on either side of it. He would push that very heavy thing, which had, next to the lid, a series of bottles with the most gloriously-colored, varicolored liquids in them. And that was where we escaped. [Laughter] Those were our little travel passes out of Gainesville in the dead heat of summer. When he would come along yelling, “Snowballsy! Snowballsy! Snowballsy!” [Laughter] And we would come running. And he had one of these swoop-shaped scrapers that, he would scrape over the top of the ice, which originally was covered with a towel. Of course it was wet, but that kept flies out of the ice, I suppose. What were the flies doing in the ice? [Laughter] I don’t know. I’ll tell you in a minute why he used that towel. To take it off—he would carefully wring it out because it was wringing wet; it was absorbing the water from the melting ice. And he would use it to mop his brow, to wipe sweat off of his brow. And then he would wring that out again, and then hang it on the of a nail, and then set about scraping the top of the ice cube to make this wonderful thing that you would cram into a little





pointed cup. A little round cup that came up like you find on rail cars and so forth. He would fill that with the ice, and then he would say, “Which?” And you would point to the bottle that you wanted. And sometimes I would say, “All.” [Laughter] Then he would get a little bit from each one of them. Made a mess. But then, we all waited for the marshmallow bottle, which was the white gooey mix, which was the topper on this thing. But he would bring right to the edge—and this was the great moment: he would bring it right to your lips, and he would say, “Drink!

Drink!” I would spell that G-L-I-N-C-K. [Laughter] “Glinck.” Why the ‘c’? I don’t know. [Laughter] It just seemed to be a part of it all. And you would take your long first draughts from it while he was holding it in his hand, and then you could transfer your hand to the bottom of that little pointed cup. And very careful now— but don’t squeeze, because you’ll pop the ice right out of the top. And there you were fixed. You were fixed until the ice man came to deliver ice to various houses. And of course the whole idea was to see how you could scramble— while he was in the house—how much you could scramble up into the back of the truck and find little pieces to chip off. And then run away from it before he gets back. And of course, it was a game; he knew what was going on. And he’d leave little chips around for you. [Laughter] It was a lovely time to be growing up. And when was that? That was in the [19]30s. It’s a lovely way to think about coming back into this house where we’re sitting now, where it’s relatively cool. In those days, it would’ve been suffocatingly hot. All of the windows would be wide open, and not a breeze would be stirring. The sun would be beating down unmercifully, and people just simply didn’t move very much. That was the time for





napping, and dozing, and making sure that whatever you had to for dinner had already been done, and if it wasn’t you would doze fitfully, thinking about it. [Laughter] But if everything was not, you could actually oversleep! [Laughter] And if you were to get things done later on. But that was the way of life at this house that I grew into, emerged into. My mother and father actually did move back here from Cedar Key. What in the world were they doing in Cedar Key? Well this was the middle [19]20s, and they were in the finishing stages by this time, 1926, of building the road from Bronson to Cedar Key. Now, what were they doing that for? Well, my father’s half-brother, Daniel Frasier Thomas, a product of my grandmother’s first marriage, had achieved a bachelor’s degree in Civil Engineering at the University of Florida, and was a whiz at it. And had immediately gone to work for the State Road Department, the notorious SRD. [Laughter] State Road Department, which built all of the roads in the state of Florida. With or without government help! But they were the people who went out in the woods and surveyed the lines, and cut down whatever was in the way, and dug up what was ever in the way, and built bridges over what was ever in the way. And did so with a great precision. And how did my father get into this? My father had shimmied down the drain pipe of the East Side school in the ninth grade and never went back. He didn’t have a college education; he didn’t have a high school diploma. He later on told me he had a PhD in “hard knocks.” [Laughter] Yeah, he really made up for it, but it was his brother who brought the kid brother along. And Uncle Frasier, or “Two-Daddy,” as I named him from my earliest meeting of him—hard to say that at this moment—in the breakfast room





which had a table that would seat, oh, twelve people around it if you squeezed in. And that would be the family more or less, anywhere from one to twelve people around the breakfast table back there. And we were having supper one night, and it was the first time I really was being introduced as a cogent being to my father’s brother, half-brother. And he was seated over one side of the table, and my father on the other, and I was in the high chair by my grandmother who always sat there at the head of the table, always. And she said, “Now Tommy, this is your Uncle Frasier.” And I looked at him a long time, and then I looked at my father a long time, back and forth a couple times, I said, “No! Two-Daddy!” Because they looked very much alike. And that cemented my relationship with my Uncle Frasier, or my Two-Daddy, for the rest of his life. [Laughter] He had no children of his own. And the way I knew that I was there was because when all the rest of the little cousins got a nickel, I always got a dime. [Laughter] I remember when, a little later on, it just didn’t seem right to call him “Two-Daddy”; everybody else called him Uncle Frasier. And I would try to say it, but it just never worked. He was always Two-Daddy, and he was a wonderful, wonderful man. He died here in this house in 1945 of a very serious problem. It was not cancer, but it was something like that, and he was only fifty-four years old. But he was a brilliant engineer. He started in the Cedar Key end, and he put Daddy in charge of the operation—having taught him what he needed to know—at the Bronson end of this road. And those two started toward one another, and all of this machinery from the various, sundry private companies hired by the state to do it were dependent on these two guys in charge. My daddy was not a surveyor, but





he knew better than most of the surveyor kids that were coming along what to do with a [inaudible 24:42]. [Laughter] His road was just cut beautifully through. And they met at a town called Otter Creek—that’s exactly where my father’s camp was, while Two-Daddy’s camp was at Cedar Key, where he had bought a house and conveniently married the daughter of the hotel keeper where he had been originally staying next door to this house. [Laughter] They had no children, but my aunt Lil was a big, buxom German lady. [Laughter] With a penchant for cigarettes and fine clothes. A great, jolly pair they were. Fought like cats and dogs when they were by themselves, but they enjoyed that bickering, and made a cottage industry out of being mad at one another. [Laughter] And lived very happily as a result of it. They were a great joy when they showed up here because I always knew that a dime was at least forthcoming. And I look back on that now and say, “Was I really that much conscious of that”—? No, I loved them dearly. It was just a wonderful thing, it was just a great relationship that [inaudible 25:54]. I was just always scooped, until I was just inappropriate to scoop up, into the arms, in this here. You know? I had such great relations with my Two-Daddy for years. That roadway was so crucial, because Daddy’s camp being at Otter Creek, he being a good Presbyterian boy, went into Otter Creek on Sundays to the only church which was there, which was a Baptist Church. And he dutifully sat through the sermons, and then went back to his camp. But one Sunday, there was a lovely girl, really quite beautiful, there playing the pump organ. He’d never seen her before. And that of course was Lucille Long, who became Lucille Halbert Long Fay. They fell in love there. She had been visiting the Gurtey





family, which was a longtime pioneer family of Otter Creek and that whole Levy County area. And visiting them for an extended period. And that is why they were able to court and marry there. And that’s why they were living in Cedar Key, because the camp was not an appropriate place! [Laughter] It was closer to Cedar Key than it was to Gainesville. And the rest is the whole tale about building the house; the bedroom on the backend of the house, which is the 1926 bedroom, the ceilings are lower, the closet is smaller. [Laughter] The floor was something like a strange brand of oak instead of pine, like the hard pine is everywhere else in the house. And so, it was distinctly a different kind of room.

But it’s out of sight from the street, so it did evolve to the shape of this wonderful Queen Anne Victorian house that I was carried into. And grew up in, attending the public schools: first, the old Eastside school, now called the Kirby-Smith building, that’s hyphenated, that was named for General Kirby-Smith. A lot of people thought Kirby was his first name, up until the time there was a sign over there and I finally called up and said, “Tell me the name of the person for whom this compound is named.” This is very recently. And she said, “It was named for General Kirby Smith.” And I said “Yes, and how do you spell that?” She said “Well, K-I-R-B-Y S-M-I-T-H.” And I said, “Is there a hyphen between those two?” And she said, “Well, no.” And I said, “Well, go outside and see if there’s one on the sign.” So she went outside, and she said, “No, there isn’t one.” Well, I said, “Well there needs to be, because the man is—it’s a hyphenated name. It’s Kirby- Smith.” Now how in the world she could get to this point and not know that?

That’s what happens when somebody isn’t paying attention. The person who





knew that, the last person who knew that, who was on the job looking at this kind of thing, retires, and maybe that’s not the most upper thing in his mind to remember—“Now remember to put the hyphen in there when you print and put the sign up.” [Laughter] So, the Kirby-Smith sign went up without a hyphen, and that’s I think when that I realized that I had a certain amount of power in doing something around here. And I think that was my very first historic preservation act upon returning home from New York, where I spent so many years of my life. Historic preservation was not new to me by any means; it was just my first act here. And I think that is historic preservation, if it sticks it the hyphen back into his name.

	M:	It is indeed.



	F:	And I think if you call up anybody over there now, they will not know about that, and they will deny it and insist it never happened. Why? Because nobody ever told them that it happened, and the person to whom it did happen has moved on. And that is the history of the dissolution of history. When it gets into the hands of the right people—the “right people” being the ones who remember intently, so much so that they’ll swear in a court of law that they’re right, when of course they’re dead wrong, because just like anybody else they’re a human being. And the things that they so fervently believe change along with their orientation. And I think that’s one of the things that we have to be so careful about when we’re talking about what went on before us. It’s just about as dissolute as what is going to happen to us in the future. We have goals—we’re goals, too, in looking back to make certain that we know where we came from, those kinds of things. It matters





more or less to people; it happens to matter a great deal to me, simply because I heard that being talked about in this household all my life, from my earliest recollections. The comings and goings in this big house were predominantly my grandmother’s other brothers and sisters and their offspring, which were quite numerous. And Sunday afternoons were not lazy here. They were alive, because that’s when they all came to town from the surrounding areas to come and visit Sissy. That was my grandmother, “Sissy”—short for sister, of course. And she being a widow since 1920, was freely able to welcome assistance in preparing food for these large crowds of people. So, there was always something wonderful going on here at this house. A great time to grow up, a great place to grow up in the midst of one of the worst depressions, of course, in the history of this country. And I’ve always thought that money was scarce, but love was plentiful. I look back over it, and there was nothing here but affection. In the midst of which, squabbling took place—histrionically, from time to time! [Laughter] But my grandmother was the always the calming end of it, so. She knew how to hush people up, and to do it diplomatically—and sometimes with an iron hand, as old ladies, particularly old Southern ladies, have always concealed in a very neat glove [Laughter] Oh, boy! But here I’m rambling on about it; you asked me where I was born. I was born here in Gainesville, and I grew up here in Gainesville, going first to the East Side School which was the remnants of the first school, the first White public school, of a brick-building nature—of a good foundation nature. And the first home of the Gainesville High School. The elementaries were each open there as well—this is the current Kirby-Smith structure, over East University





Avenue. I went to my first and second grades there, and the first two weeks of the third grade, at which point I was summarily yanked out of class. I was in Mrs. Lucretia Thompson’s third grade class, and at the end of two weeks we hadn’t done much of anything. She’d spent most of the time inveigling us into her entanglement of wonder, which she did usually by reading all kinds of wonderful things to us, and doing it in such an engaging manner that you never wanted her to stop. I knew what she was doing—I could look back now; she was going to weave this right on in to numbers and all these other wonderful things that we really needed to be able to deal with. But it was Raggedy Ann and Raggedy Andy, and I had no idea what the outcome of that book was, and I never finished it, and I have not finished it to this day. [Laughter] So, I still don’t know what happened to Raggedy Ann and Raggedy Andy! I know that I was yanked out of her class and forced over to this odd place, which is now the high school on West University Avenue—the building we’ve been talking about, the backyard of which was the playground where I was born, the present structure of the Ayers Medical Plaza. The west wing of the building, the ground floor, the west wing was the West Side elementary school, grade one through six, one class of each. The East Side school was one through six. The high school was the rest of the building, here over on West University Avenue. This is where I now went. I was actually closer to this building than I was to the other one by a block or two. But the important thing was that the reason I had sprung over there was because the boundary when I was first starting school, the boundary as to which school I would go to, were the railroad tracks. And it happened to be the T&J, at that time.





And so I, living east of the T&J tracks, which were on 5th Street, now 6th Street. [Laughter] Figure that one out! But, caused me to go to the East Side school. Politically, they moved it for some reason or another to Main Street, and that threw me—the bane of the children who lived between the tracks. Not on the other side of them; we were the ones who lived between them! [Laughter] And we were the ones who got batted around like balls. So, there I was over there, and for the first two weeks there I was miserable, until I realized that Henrietta Cannon was going to turn out to be one of the most wonderful people I ever knew in my life. She knew how sad the two or three of us were to have been yanked out of Raggedy Ann—we didn’t tell her about Raggedy Ann! [Laughter] She was our storyteller, but she was mother figure who had a smile. Her face and head resembled a small turtle head sitting there in front of its shell, looking up at you. The shape of it, as I look back on it, the two are very, very similar.

Beyond that I can’t say anything about it, except that she had very large eyes; very large orb eyes, dark orbs. And when she looked at you, she drew you in to wherever she was in a wonderful, magical manner. So, after two weeks, I was hooked, and so glad that I was going like my next door Herschel Kriswell, to high school! [Laughter] As he insisted we were doing, because it was the high school building. So there we were: the third grade, the fourth grade was Swan Martin.

Swan Martin was the only person I ever knew that was absolutely and totally her name. She was a swan. She glided, she moved that way, she had a long, slender neck, and a very sweet voice. And I don’t remember anything else about the fourth grade. The fifth grade was—oh gracious, will I be able to remember





her? Yes I will. She was tall, and slender, and very precise in speech. But loving and wonderful, and I don’t remember what I learned there, either. So, the fifth grade and the fourth grade subject matter, I don’t know what it was. But then, what happened, geopolitically, the tracks were yanked back to where? To 6th Street. To 5th Street, to the T&J tracks. And there I was, thrust back over again to the East Side again for the sixth grade. Well, that wasn’t so bad. I was accustomed to that kind of batting around, I think. I knew what was involved with it. And besides, sixth grade you’re so much older, you’re impossibly so much older. And, so the fact that I was going to school in precisely the same room out of which my father had climbed in ninth grade. And notably, looked out to see that there was no drain pipe. [Laughter] So, that was out of the question for me; there was no way out! So, I had to stick it out. And the woman who, that teacher was sickly lady, but a lovely, sweet, kind, wonderful woman, who wrote the history of Micanopy, from the great ladies of Micanopy. We all loved her dearly.

And the sicker she got, we just sort of got sick with her, we were so empathetic to it. And she didn’t come back one day, and there was this broadly grinning, very toothy, lovely lady named Mrs. Gaines. And she said, “Here I am, and I’m your new teacher, and here’s your treat!” [Laughter] She had a huge cake, and the rest of the day was eating that cake! And so, she knew how to get us, too. So, she brought that little unruly crowd to order. And then, the next thing we knew, we had finished the sixth grade, and were thrust back to the West Side school for seventh grade, because we were now in Junior High. But so was everybody else thrust back over there, too. Because that turned out to be the year that they





would totally renovate the East Side school and build a new school on the west side. And that is when the East Side school became Kirby-Smith school, and the new west side of school was J.J. Finley school. Both of them Confederate Generals. Very well-thought-of Confederate Generals, too, of course. So, that tells you a little something about the way things were going. The Black kids were going to Lincoln High School. They were at Lincoln High School. And so, there was a certain amount of politics going on there, too, in that naming. The fact that later on, the high school was yanked out of it and it became a middle school— much to the chagrin of the Black community. And I’m leaping years and years forward on that, but I don’t mind doing that, because what that does is to establish, in my later years—in my middle years—early middle years, that is, on into old age. I have had such a total turnabout in terms of my feelings about Blackness and what it meant. And having been raised by a woman whose father owned a large cadre of slaves to grow cotton—and who lost them all of course, but who was the Civil War captain who rounded up the militia to go and fight that war. That can explain why my grandmother was devoted member of the United Daughters of the Confederacy, which in the 1930s, was a very important women’s organization here in this Gainesville, this wonderful town. The UDC had parades once a year. I think they would’ve paraded more often if it hadn’t been for the fact that the DAR also paraded. [Laughter] The Daughters of the American Revolution, who happened to be, of course, the same people. [Laughter] For the most part the same people, just riding in different—. Same cars, same parades, but different flags. I would ride usually, oftentimes in the





lead car; if not the lead car, certainly one close to the lead, with my grandmother—who was always a figure there, having been the daughter of and so forth. She got eclipsed later on by all kinds of different war generals and so forth, but fortunately for that, she passed away in 1934, when I was eight years old, and did not have to live to see what happened. I think my grandmother was such a lover of human beings, and was one the kindest people I ever knew, and who was adored by the Black women who worked for her up until the time of her death. And who, when the grand old dame of that family, that Black family that had served so well, who had taken care of my father when he was a baby, and then taken care of me when I was a baby, and known to both of us as Aunt Caroline, and one of the most beloved figures in my life; I mean, I can’t even think about it without choking up, teary-eyed. She was just so beautiful to me.

And the glossiness and the shininess of that beautiful, Black face, as wrinkled as it was, with the little tiny knotted grey hair around the top of it; she could just gaze into my eyes, and I knew she loved me. I would gaze back at her, and I knew that I loved her. And we have some pictures of the two of us together, showing that.

We’ve got our arms around each other, but we just stare at each other with just so much love; I can’t ever forget that picture. I think that’s why I’ve been able to preserve and be able to choke up so well: because of that snapshot. [Laughter] It was actually right here on the front porch, on the steps. Aunt Caroline Green, born a slave, who never outgrew a slave mentality as I look back on it. When I asked her about her family and so forth, she was born to “Marse Tom.” ‘Marse’ Tom Green, it turned out, who was a large plantation owner, who apparently was





very, very kind, and good, and respectful to his slaves, and freed them all very quickly. A fairly unusual thing; I don’t know how often that happened. I hear tales of it happening, I think all White families sort of manufactured the fact that it happened with them. Certainly not all of them. I heard tales about how long they owned them, long after they was freed! [Laughter] But Aunt Caroline had a great- grandson named Sammy, and Sammy and I were the same age. And Sammy was my closest playmate for a long time growing up, before I moved out of the house, pretty much into the neighborhood and was allowed to run around. But before I was allowed to run around, Sammy came to the house with Aunt Caroline. And of course, she could shepherd him as well as me. [Laughter] And we were inseparable kids, just loving around, playing around the house. So I grew up with the essence of Blackness, right staring me in the face. And after a while, I began to realize that that was what my other friends didn’t want to have anything to do with, when I came up. And—let’s see what else I can remember. Oh, I wanted to get to Aunt Caroline because—Sammy was tangential there. We eventually grew apart. The last time I saw him was at the funeral in the early 1940s, and the funeral lasted all afternoon. And Sammy got up and went out several different times, but I stuck it out. We did not go to the burial site, though, and I regret that, but my daddy did have to go somewhere else that afternoon on business. So, we did. So, I said my goodbyes to her that way. But it was a part of me that will never, ever be erased. And when I try to tell that to some people, they just can’t abide it, you know? That I was carrying on this slave mentality on into my life now. No, she was more kin than she was slave, and she was never a





slave—if anything I was her slave! [Laughter] And so willingly so! “Marse” Aunt Caroline! I wouldn’t have known what—“mistress” would have sounded like. I wouldn’t have known it. How silly to think and talk about things like this, but maybe not, it was an integral part of my life. But it was a part of bringing me to the point, which is a crucial point later on—my grandmother was dead, it’s about 1936, [19]37, somewhere in there. And I had made friends with the Black man who ran the steamroller for the city of Gainesville. The steamroller was this enormous, smoke-belching thing—huge flat wheel on the front end of it, and two big wide ones on the back end of it. And this guy could manipulate that thing. The back wheels were—I need to mention—they were in direct line with the big solid wheel in the front, so that they all rolled over the same space. Perhaps the two outer sides of it had a little down the middle of the back, but then the front wheel would take care of that. You can roll and flatten a great swath with that thing.

This man could operate it so carefully, so precisely, that he could put a dime down on the street, and drive right along, ride beside the dime, and not displace it with this great, powerful thing. And that was the steamroller man, John. John was his name. I hesitate to put on the tape what everybody else called him, but why not? It’s what everyone else called him: he was called “Nigger John.” He somehow managed to live with that—when he was in the presence of other Whites, I suppose, he could live with it. How he was in his off time, I don’t know, because I didn’t know him that way. I only knew him as this friend who came by after he had parked the thing in the city garage and walked home. And he happened to walk back on Arredondo Street, because Arredondo Street was the





main highway—back-and-forth foot pathway, bicycle, car—between the two Black neighborhoods in the early days of this town. The Seminole—Seminole! [Laughter] Seminary Street—very close together in the memory patterns, Seminoles and seminaries. The seminary Seminoles; the Seminole seminarians. [Laughter] Anyhow, they all graduated from the same seminary. And they all, these days, bleed orange and blue. Absolutely. But, the seminary neighborhood, which is now 5th Avenue—and they have managed to make something important out of that, too, that they had on Seminary. That passageway took Arredondo Street, predominantly because it didn’t have to weave around the unpaved railroad portion of it that 5th Street did; it’s where the T&J tracks were, farther west, and actually closer to 5th Avenue/Seminary Street neighborhood center.

But the Arredondo Street, 3rd Street, pathway was the major foot traffic between that and the other one which was south of town, which was called Porters Quarters. Porters Quarters was a wonderful Black neighborhood made up of people that I didn’t know. I knew people from the Seminary Street neighborhood, because I was on this side of University Avenue. That was the great dividing line between the north and the south, here. [Laughter] That was a microcosm of the North-South issue—at least in my mind, anyhow, and in my playmates’ minds and so forth. Sammy did live down there. Aunt Caroline did live in Porters Quarters. So there was that one caveat: I knew Sammy, but I didn’t know any of his friends, because we didn’t play together down there. We played together here. He came here with Aunt Caroline. When I went down to Aunt Caroline’s, it was because I was being parked there. [Laughter] So people could go to Cedar





Key or somewhere like that, or to go fishing, or Jacksonville, or St. Augustine, like that. There is Aunt Caroline. I remember when she died, they wired her house. The funeral company wired her house so they could hang a large, frizzy, beaded lampshade over her face in her coffin. And there she was, with a hairdressing that I had never seen before, obviously from an early photograph of hers, parted in the middle, and all the little kinky hairs combed out to the side— which I had never seen it done that way before, but I know that was from a photograph, because that is the way they would’ve worn it when she was young. I’ve seen many other women with their hair looking like that. But it took me a while when I stood there as a kid to view her and visit with her after having visited her so many times thereafter, she couldn’t come here. Then as she lay on her bed over the months, and taking her a little tin of Prince Albert Tobacco: a little red tin, a little flat tin, it was about four inches tall, oval. And she would take a few little wispy pieces of tobacco out of that, then twist it in the end of a handkerchief, and put that little bag in one side of her mouth. And be absolutely delighted with it. [Laughter] So, whenever I went, I always made sure that I inveigled to buy a tin of Prince Albert to take her. And she would—oh, she would just clap her hands together with such joy that I had done that. I just loved it. But then, the last time I saw her she was gone. And then that was only the second person I had seen dead, my grandmother having died in [19]34. And we brought her home and put her right here, where I’m sitting, in her coffin. So, she was home for the last time. She was in a beautiful white lace dress. Her hair was done exactly the way I had always seen it, straight through there, long, that’s the way it looked then. She





looked a lot older than that then, but that’s a picture of my grandmother sitting on the piano, along with Papa Saunders—the two of them probably at about the time they married, about 1904. That’s about what they looked like—maybe a little later, maybe 1910, [19]12, something like that, because they were really settled in by that time. And they were showing their age at that point. He died in 1920 at the height of his grocery business. But—let’s see, I got a little off track there; I was finishing up with Aunt Caroline, I think. And trying to relate this business of the people going back and forth. And get back to John, the steamroller operator. Naturally, he went home from the city ordinance down to the southeast—city power lots and so forth, and where all those trucks and things would’ve been, the steamroller, where he would take it home for the night. And then walk all the way back home to the Seminary district. I waited for him sometimes, if I was available, to run to the corner and walk with John, and chatter with him away, and—“Well, what did you do today? Where did you flatten out things today with the steamroller?” And he would laugh and talk; he always had his jacket thrown over his shoulder. No matter what time the weather was, he always had one over his shoulder. Very tall, long, gaunt, lean man, with such a kindly face, to operate that huge, chugging thing. And he would disappear from sight, and that was the way I visited with my friends on Arredondo Street. I got to know them, and I knew their patterns. I knew when they worked, and when they would walk, and when I could be out there with them to walk my block. They wouldn’t let me cross the street. [Laughter] But I would run to one end of it and meet them, and worry them to the rest of the other end. How many of them were glad when they go to that corner, I





don’t know. [Laughter] But they almost never showed it. Once in a while, you could tell if it was trouble. Some, I inherently knew not to do too much with them. But that was John; there were many of them. Aunt Mary was an old, ancient beggar woman who pushed a baby carriage. We would always bring her food, and she in the crotch of a big old oak tree which was out here, and the big roots grew out high. One of them formed itself into a little throne which I sat in from time to time when I was playing king. Aunt Mary would always stop and rest and sit in that little thing, and I would bring her something to eat. That’s the kind of thing that went on here on Arredondo Street: back-and-forth. And very few White people did that. They either were not going north and south, they were going east and west, or they were riding in a car or something like that. So I didn’t see them, I didn’t bother myself with their schedules. It was my Black friends. And they were the adults in the community. I knew many of them—very few of them by name; I just learned their names by hearing other people call them that. But here’s the reason I wanted to bring up John, because it was absolutely a turning point in my life. One afternoon, I heard an ambulance siren wailing away, and I could tell that it was coming from the Oscar Thomas Funeral Home on Main Street. And it wasn’t going up Main Street—which is where it usually went, or it disappeared going in another direction—but it was coming closer, and it was obviously coming along Church Street, where it was the corner of us, the corner of Church Street and Main Street. It was coming west. So, I went running out to see what was going on. And it stopped right down at the end of Arredondo Street and Church Street, parked in the middle of the street. Of course, I had to go





running there, and when I got there, there was John lying in the middle of the sidewalk, in a pool of his own blood. He had been sitting on the curved stone fenceway—big, big, powerful fence, right at the corner of the Whittstock House. The other anchor house now in the Pleasant Street Historic District is this house; this house and the Whittstock were the two anchor houses for the historic district coming into being. He’d been sitting there, and some drunk [phone rings] had failed to make the corner.

	M:	Here, I can stop the—. [Break in recording] Okay. So, you were saying.



	F:	John was lying there in his pool of blood. At the moment, I’m trying to recollect which, if it was the right or the left. I think it was the left foot had been severed, and was still hanging on with the Achilles tendon. This I saw when they picked him up to put him on the stretcher. But that took place sometime later, because— this was the pivotal thing: the Oscar Thomas ambulance refused to pick him up and put him on the stretcher, and take him to the hospital, because he was Black. And you had to wait. “We can’t take him! You have to wait ‘til the White and Jones ambulance gets here.” And that’s what I heard. And there was my friend lying there, and something flooded through me that had never flooded through me before. When I saw that, and I saw it as just pure, idle evil. It was just awful. And there was nothing I could do, except sit there and witness it. And John in his agony—I don’t know whether he could feel anything or not. He just simply prayed and clapped his hands together, lying there. They didn’t try to make him comfortable, they didn’t try to stem the blood; they didn’t do anything. And that was such a horrible thing to see there. I wanted to beat on these people, but I





didn’t have that nature; that was not my nature to raise up my fists and pound the other party. So, mentally, I was pounding on them somehow. And then, finally, the White and Jones ambulance came, and then he was very tenderly picked up. But as they picked him up, the foot which was still in the shoe was dangling by his Achilles chord. That picture is so indelible. And the color of that blood. And there in front of that house, I can’t pass it without seeing all that. Anytime. It’s just there. Because the stone is still moved slightly out of the way; nobody ever pushed it back. I don’t think anybody ever noticed it, except me, that that stone was still out of the way because the car hit and he was between the car and the stone. Whoever ran into him was so drunk, there was no malevolence there, it was just ignorance, and stupidity, and drunkenness. Just wanton nonsense. But the acts of unkindness there were not wanton, they were deliberate. And they were of a mindset that I was yanked from in that moment, and I can never forget it. What my actions were after that moment, are the actions of a little boy who was confused, and whose memory of that would get eclipsed by other things.

And I would revert to being the same little boy, who from time to time pretended that he owned Sammy, and Sammy loved pretending that he was the slave; and then when Sammy wanted to be the master and I was the slave, we would swap roles. [Laughter] We never whipped one another, but we always carried a stick, whoever was the master carried the stick. Our understanding of what slavery was about was, “Do this for me.” That was what I emerged from. But that’s the moment when the emergence began. And if you can trace your own in—to where you have a colossal life change as to when it actually began, you’re lucky. In this





case, John was not lucky at all. I don’t mean ever to say that. But I’m glad that something like that took place in my life as early as it did, because it was always an ambivalence from that point forward, every time the need for an ambivalence presented itself. And what I’m trying to get at is what can happen in a Southern kid who grew up in a Confederate household, where it was the pride and joy of my grandmother’s brothers and sisters, who all referred to their father as this great man, and so forth and so on. They were always worried who was going to get the sword, that kind of thing. [Laughter] I never wanted the sword. It just never occurred to me to want the sword. I think that is probably one of the guiding features of my life, is that I don’t think I ever stopped wanting the sword; I just never did want it. That really—said that, “It’s fine. Wherever it goes, it’s fine. It’s not my problem. That’s not really me.” And took a long time for that to surface. And then, of course, all of my friends hadn’t had this apocryphal—no, not apocryphal. This what? Well, this crowning moment. This emergence of understanding of something on some kind of level, very powerful. That word will come to me in a little while; it’s important.

	M:	Epiphany?



	F:	Epiphany, exactly the word. Thank you, that’s exactly the word. It was a true epiphany. But like epiphanies in childhood, it just went right below the surface. [Laughter] But it emerged at crucial points in my life when I needed it. When a decision had to be made about things, there was always that tugging at me. And when, later on, I was in the Navy, in the hospital corps, and the Black kids were only in the kitchen corps, and when one would show up, all the rest of my





buddies would giggle about him, and make fun of him, and they would give him a new name, and all of this stuff and the other. And ascribe to him everything demeaning. That was not my cup of tea; it never was. I found myself laughing from time to time, and then realizing that’s not funny. Just isn’t funny. And then of course, we went off to war, and we were salvaged from that war before anybody hit us. We were very lucky to have been born at just the time to be right there poised on the edge of obliteration—Okinawa, ready to go forward to the mainland of Japan as the very first fleet hospital to wade ashore. By this time, I was in the Fleet Marine hospital corps. And knowing that we were doomed, and not having it happen. We as a collective group never had to have that feeling about, “Why was I saved,” when one guy, when all his buddies were blown up around him and he was the one that didn’t get blown up. He carries that to his grave, “Why me?

What was there about me that caused me to be saved? I’m not worthy.” I translate that right on to 1969 in New York City. I’m deeply involved with the fire department there. The company that I belong to—18 Engine, my neighborhood company—go to a massive fire, and there were twelve firemen inside: one company coming in from one side of the building, one street; other one coming to the other side of the block, coming through. And they were searching for the fire. And they did not know that the fire was an inferno underneath them. And all of the sudden, the floor gave way, and all twelve of them went down. There was a thirteenth from my company who was hanging on to a hose, and he pulled himself up out of that. And he, of course, was the one who why-me’d himself into insanity almost. He was never a functioning fireman after that. He was ascribed





to way out Long Island, in the farthest reaches of the city where nothing ever happened. So, that was my tale about being involved in something and surviving as a group. We didn’t have that ‘why me’ feeling, but why not us? Well, very easy to see: Harry dropped the bomb and in a flash, big flash, he saved us all. And we all came home. And without a scratch. And of course, we got involved in some shooting matches and all that stuff from up at the wharf; the Japanese didn’t know it was over. We landed under a heavy fire. We went over as Marines. But there was no massive way of fighting us. It was all from above and a few scattered shots here and there from the ground, the Japanese around. So, that, I wanted to stick right in there at this same moment. The “why me” business: why did I have that epiphany as a child? It occurred to me later on, as I got smarter— by “smarter,” I mean more observant of things around me, more alert to things. In noticing my friends were not emerging from this business, they weren’t welcoming some of the Black people that they knew. They still maintained that absolute separation—which had been drilled into them from childhood. It was never drilled into me as a child. I think there is a major part of it, too. It was not drilled into me. They didn’t have to drill something like that into me or out of me. The anguish that I felt for John was not directed at my family; it was directed at these monsters who let him sit there! He could’ve died in all of that, you know. In effect, John did die; he just didn’t pass away. He hung on. There was nothing he could do for the city, there was nothing he could do for anybody. Nobody could put that foot back on. They put him in a wheelchair and gave him a box of pencils, and he spent the rest of his life wheeling by here on the wheelchair,





going downtown to University Avenue and Main Street, and sitting under the awning in front of the Woolworth Five-and-Dime selling pencils. I never saw him actively try to sell a pencil to anybody, it was just the boxes there on the edge of his wheelchair. And he nodded, and he spoke to people, and people stopped and talked to him. And he carried some kind of a social life there. I don’t see how he could possibly have lived on selling pencils, but that’s what he did—maybe that gave him tobacco money. But there he was, and he lived out his life there on that corner; a corner that he had paved.

	M:	Wow. A deep irony.



	F:	Well anyhow, that’s Arredondo Street, growing up on it, and there’s still people who pass by here regularly. One of my friends is blind, and he can tell when I’m doing something in the yard, just from the clicks and where they’re coming from. And the movements and so forth. And he’ll speak! [Laughter]. Sometimes I’ll play games with him, and I stand very still. And if he shuffles on by, I say, “Got you!” [Laughter] He lives in the big four hundred apartment house around the corner.

There are a lot of other people who are a lot less careful than he is, and they live in the street, and I am out there picking it up all the time, so I would see people back and forth. So here I am back in the same place, making some acquaintances on the same street here, what, about seventy-five years or so later? And it’s quite a different thing now—as I see it. I cannot possibly ever see it from a blind man’s position here, and I’m not talking about his blindness; I mean the way he sees life. Because he is not afraid to use the, “Well, nice to see you again” saying. It’s part of his language. He probably had to teach him how to say





that, but I think that blind people are taught to utilize their language like that. I know that the Institute for the Blind, the Lighthouse in New York City—I had a lot of dealings with them because hearing plays a very important part in their lives. And I sort of took part in the training, the person who took over and ran that whole program there in that school in New York. Where, when you walk past it, there’s a beeping signal. [Laughter] That announces, “This is where the door is.” “You’re here!” Little signs which will creep out later on, I’ll talk about what I did in New York City after I moved there growing up. But back to Third Street, here; I want to talk a little bit more about Third Street, and the people who were here in this house. Of course there was my grandmother. Papa Saunders had died in 1920, I was born in [19]26 and never knew him. I never knew any of the ones that were gone like that. Only her brothers and sisters who survived, and the ones who came on the Sunday afternoons. And we’d have such a wonderful time here on the screen porch, which was the center of it all. When they bought the house in 1904, the front porch was strictly a wraparound. The two sides were the same as the front part of it, and it was something narrow for a porch like that.

They widened that big porch out there. They doubled the size of it and screened it in, and added on this side over here to make a bedroom. You could call it the sleeping porch, but it has windows all around it, on the side of it, and that was my grandmother’s bedroom. She loved—being on the ground floor was important to her. But these two porches figured greatly in my life: this was the social center, this big screen porch out here; my grandmother’s bedroom was another social center, too. It’s where I spent the night with her from time to time. That’s where





we would wake up together to the brilliant sun shining in, and she’d hop up out of bed, beat me to the window, and open it up and throw it up, and, “Open up the windows / Let the sun shine in,” she would sing. And the sun does that beautifully here. It really shines, beats right into your windows here. It’s a wonderful way to have spent time with her. That’s my office now, that’s where I spend my private time. In the wintertime, I’ll move into the kitchen, but when the weather’s okay, that’s my office. I look at it and when I gaze up at the room, it is a ceiling, this wonderful arching ceiling, it’s attached to the side of the house. Memories just flood back in. It’s a very warm place to have, a place to spend your time in your old age. I have wonderful spots all over this house, many of which were secret hiding places to me as a kid. It’s just full of junk now. In some cases, only I know that it’s there, so it’s still a secret hiding place! [Laughter] Oh, what a search it’s going to be after I’m gone! A plunder search. But this house has seen many, many people come and go in the family, and all of theirs, and each one of them was a center like my grandmother’s in their own right, because they were the children of my great-grandparents. They were Germans; Powell. They were half- German, half-Powell, and half-Geiger. That’s “Geiger,” if you want to know what I’m pronouncing. My grandmother cupped my chin in her hand at one point, and looked me very sharply in the eye, and she said, “You’re a Geiger!” [Laughter] Her mother was Geiger. Her grandfather was Dr. Washington Whitfield Geiger, a graduate of—can’t remember the medical school in Germany, but he set up practice in Micanopy in the early days, and he was there when Great-grandfather Powell arrived from the Citadel in 1851; he was already there. So he married first





one of his daughters, but when she died, he married another daughter—which was my grandmother. And between them, they had about thirteen children. And so, those were—they farmed themselves out to different communities. Only Uncle Willie remained in Gainesville. He was a traveling salesman, I think for a fire extinguisher company. That wasn’t thrilling me at the time. [Laughter] It would have at a later time; we would’ve have had tales to tell each other. Uncle Willie was a sportsman, he always wore his beautiful, big, high-starched collar, always had his tie on regardless of the weather, and he always had his bowler hat. And when he would come in the front door, he would close the door quietly behind him, and if you listened carefully, you would hear [makes popping noise]. [Laughter] He careful dropped his derby hat right, drop on the marbletop table, and it made this wonderful plopping sound. And then, he would stand in the middle of the hall and announce himself loudly, “Yes ma’am!” [Laughter] That was Uncle Willie saying that he was here for a visit, and wherever my grandmother was, she would emerge with wet hands or whatever, coming from— or waking up from a nap—and they would have a wonderful set-to. They were always glad to see each other, which was the hallmark of this family; they loved each other, they couldn’t wait to see each other and tell whatever, and there were thirteen of them! By this time, it had boiled down to a precious few of six or seven. But they would gather on Sunday afternoon, and there was a big double- passenger rocking chair, ancient chair. It was on the front porch in the earliest photograph of this house, long before the porches were added. You can see it on the porch. It is still on this front porch today. But that was the seat that my Aunt





Annie, from High Springs—Annie Pfeiffer, she had married a guy named Sam Pfeiffer in High Springs, who ran a store over there. She was a very large woman, always was, and never did slim down. She was the size of two women. And that chair was hers! [Laughter] Because that was the only one she could sit in. But there was just enough room for me to snuggle in between Aunt Annie and the place where you rested your elbow. [Laughter] And it was wonderful fun for a while, ‘til I got tired of that and would pop out of it and run along about my business. But the moment she sat down in that chair, I made a beeline for it, because it was just so comfortable and wonderful. And she was always so enveloping, and loving, and wonderful, and there was always something to tell me. That was the lovely thing about these—these people knew how to relate to children. They didn’t just squeeze them out; we were part of it, running around.

And sometimes you’d be shooed out, if they wanted to do some other things. But you were never shooed out permanently, you were never shooed out at the beginning of everything—unless maybe somebody had died or something like that, you know. Then you’d—but you knew already not to run around. That is really an important thing to look at, because it’s the way you grow up, and the way you sense the behavior of others around you. And some people just don’t have that degree of sensitivity to things. They’re thinking about other things.

What thing, I don’t know. I’m talking about the way I viewed things, and the things I was sensitive to, that a lot of my friends in their homes were not, when I was there visiting them. There was just—I couldn’t recognize any of that. I didn’t know





it. I know it now, I can look back on it and see that I was that different from all my friends. We’ll discuss that later.

	M:	All right.



	F:	Yeah [Laughter]. Is there anything more we need to do, drawing up to a close or anything?

	M:	Did you want to take a pause here or did you—? F:	No, how about you?

	M:	No, I’m fine.



	F:	You’re fine? I’m fine. I think what I was really talking about here is the house, and what went on in it. I do need to add a little bit, too, here, so let’s talk more about the house: it was not just blood family. The blood family didn’t live here. They came in in flocks, and left in flocks, all in the same day. I don’t remember any of them ever spending the night, because there wasn’t any place to spend the night! That’s wrong, that’s wrong: in the dining room, there was an early convertible sofa. It was a monster! If anything could’ve been made out of mission style, that one was. It was sheer mission style, but it was very hard to sit on, and covered with some brown material, the paint on it, which began to crackle—I think it had been black, and it began to crackle as the people sat on it and it wore off, but nobody tried to repair it. But that piece of the back of it, if you stuck your hands underneath it, and pulled up and out on it, it’s a surge upward, and outward, and back this way. And then, all of the rest of this stuff you were sitting on would be folded out and tumbled out. And there was a mattress on it. Dreadfully uncomfortable; we could feel the springs right through it. What an awful thing, we





could feel the springs in that seat later on! But from a distance to me, from across the room, it resembled the pipe organ console in the church. It had that big, broad expanse to it, and the big wooden arms that came out on the sides of it, even rectangles. And then, that odd-shaped thing, which looked sort of like organ pipes if I squinted. And it had this broad seat. And I could get down on my knees in front of that thing and just play that pipe organ like crazy! Going, “[imitates pipe organ]” please. This little child doing that. And that was his console; that’s why I wanted to bring that in. I look lovingly back on to my memories of that old thing, because it was my first pipe organ! [Laughter] I had to provide the sounds for it, but it provided me with the console. And it egged me on to want to get to know more about the console in the church. And that’s why I have always loved the pipe organ ever since. It had a wonderful, mysterious sound to it in church, the old organ—which disappeared shortly after my grandmother died; it was wheezing away at her funeral, as I remember. I kept waiting for that one low pedal to catch up with itself; it was very slow, and very quiet. And it first went sort of like—[makes noises of struggling note] as it caught up with itself, it was very slow to speak. But the organist was a left-footed organist, sort of swung back and forth between one low note and one a little higher, and then back to the low one again to match whatever chord she was playing! [Laughter] Oh, my! Did I ever want to learn to play the organ, with that stuck in my head! But even at my grandmother’s funeral, I remember distracting myself momentarily to wait for that sixteen-foot—I know what it was now: a sixteen-foot bourdon pipe—“bourdon” meaning it carried the burden of the sound, waiting for it to speak. [Laughter] It





was a friend, a little friend who was hiding back in there. So, that’s the insanity of children, and their first love of a pipe organ. And we’re all nuts! Everybody started loving pipe organ very early, and it was not something that was a late-in-life discovery. It was very early. Learning to play it was another matter; learning to love it was very early. It was a great, mysterious thing. No two were ever alike, and no two people ever played them in the same way. And once in a while, somebody would drift in and play it magnificently the way it needed to be played, and that was like the flint that struck the flame. [Laughter] You’d hear that, and know that there are possibilities here. So, that piece of furniture was my first musical instrument. There was, in the corner where you’re sitting here, an upright piano, a really kind of a clunky thing; probably was played for Eastern Star meeting practice. They would practice their drills here in the parlor, and they’d need somebody to pound the march out on the panel. And that was the one I’d bang on, and make noises out of; strange, but it was not satisfying like the pipe organ. But I developed a love for the piano anyhow at that point, and then began taking lessons with Margaret Bercham, who was organist at the church—the one who played the organ much like the piano. It sounded that way, like a calliope.

You need to hold the keys down to make the pipes sound. But if you took the finger off, it would stop sounding. That was a big empowerment to me, but it was not—anyhow, I took lessons from her, and I never went anywhere with the piano because that early foundation was so poor. It was just bereft, really, of whatever I needed to know. Then, getting my fingers moving in the right way. I think they could have, because they did very nicely, and the organ [inaudible 1:27:09] an





entirely different kind of thing. There’s no resistance from the thing at all. You push it down lightly because it’s intended to be light. If it’s a mechanical organ, it’s another story; you began hooking together more and more pipes to be blown, and you had to push harder the keys. And then, that reminds me of Eleanor Smith, our very dear family friend, who was the organist at Holy Trinity Episcopal—the other church in my family, the other family church.

	M:	And where is it located? Or was it?



	F:	At the time, it was located at East Main Street and Mechanic Street. It is presently located at Northeast 1st Street and Northeast 1st Avenue. It’s that gray stone church with a tower, the bell tower, just off the clock tower. That was East Main Street. And Main Street was West Main Street. And that was East Main Street North; and on the other side of University Avenue, it was East Main Street South. And it ended bluntly in the face of the post office, built in 1911; now the Hippodrome Theatre. But it did pick up on the other side of it, little bits and places, but not very much. Not very much. So, that was the sound of that—oh, Eleanor Smith was the organist there. Eleanor Smith was a wraith; a tiny, slim woman. When she was sideways, she wasn’t even in the room. She had long, black hair, which sort of sat on her shoulders, and a wonderful, kind, moon face. And when she played the organ, she was always dressed in their usual garb there. The choir work dark garments, like graduation gowns, and wore mortarboards, and they all looked like they were graduating from something. And I always wondered, “Will they come back?” [Laughter] “If I come back next Sunday, will they be gone?” Until finally, I realized that it was just a choir costume





and a part of Episcopal garb. But they also had tassels on them, too; that was the giveaway. But she had hers, and as she would couple the top manual of the organ, the top keyboard, to the bottom keyboard by pulling out one of these rods over there—which makes, the pipes that were sounded by the top keyboard and the bottom keyboard were now sounded together by playing on the bottom keyboard. That’s lesson one in mechanical organ playing. Mechanically, it got twice as hard to do. Because you were pushing down on that many more pipes, mechanically, to open them. A wonderful device; the first true computer in its earliest days. But to watch her do that, this little wraithlike lady—in order to get enough energy to push those coupled keys down, she pushed herself up off of the bench, up into the air. And of course, as her body flew up, it had to come back down again, and the tassel and everything wanted to stay up where it was. [Laughter] And there was this wonderful jumping that goes on. And I wanted to go to the church, because I knew that she would always be there; I knew that.

But if she was there, why was she graduating every Sunday? But the tassel was when I went to Holy Trinity to see. And of course, she later became one of the dear loves of my life; I adored her. She visited me in New York in her older days, and I took her around to some fancy places. [Laughter] Well, that was a wonderful trip. But Ellen Smith showed me about tracker organs. A tracker organ is one of these—it’s called “tracker” because when you push down on the key, it tracks itself directly to the pipe. There’s a physical connection. When you push down on that key, you are opening the other end of the stick at the same time, and that opens the pipe and the wind blows. So, it’s like you’ve you got an





extended arm, or finger, that reaches in. You push the key down, you’re mechanically opening the pipe. That’s called “tracker action,” and that’s when I realized that this thing in the dining room, this big sofa looking-thing, really was a lot harder to operate than I thought it was going to be! [Laughter] Because I was playing imaginary keys in there. And here, that would be one of my first organs that I ever really touched. And of course, they would not couple together, they were just sitting there, and was very easy to push down because it wasn’t doing anything. So I had no sense of why it was so difficult. There was no mechanical reason why she jumped up off of the bench every time she pushed down and would change chords. Well, there was a lot of jumping up and down. And it was just comical. I’ve asked scores of other people who knew her in those days if they also watched, and I’ve never found more than one or two who ever knew what I was talking about. So there is—that’s a weird child observation, is he’s seizing onto something, and seeking it out, and being delighted by it, being unable to explain it, and unable to discuss it with his friends. Because they don’t know what he’s talking about. And if I would try to describe it, “Well, what’s so wrong with her jumping up and down?” So, “What do you want to talk about that for?” So, I’m wending my way through the house, out of the dining room and the pipe organ, and into the parlor where the piano was. And as I progressed with Margaret, as I did—it’s better than stasis—Momma said, “Okay, we’ve got to get rid of this big piano, and get one that’s easier to play, that’s better-sounding.” So, she bought that spinet right there which took its place. And that spinet has long since outworn its usefulness. It’s just—it doesn’t play very well. It’s clunky little





piano. But it was wonderful in those early days, and it really made some great music for me, and got me off onto a place where I could actually begin to learn where my hands are going to the notes. So music began to prosper in my life. It came to be part of the central feature of it. It wasn’t until later on that I learned to sing, or at least realize that I could carry a tune, and had a reasonable voice if I didn’t try to imitate somebody else. Then something pretty natural for me would come out. And it embarrassed me, and I didn’t want to do it for a long time. But then finally, I realized that this is planned. [Laughter] So that was, once loosed, it’s hard to hold it back. So singing became a central feature in my life. And that didn’t relate well in this house, except that I do remember that I would come home from school in the afternoon sometimes, and sing loudly in this room because it would reverberate. And my cousin Emma, who was the mother of Mary Gresham, who lived upstairs in the back—a big bedroom in the back that had been built for the boys when they first moved in—she spent her days up there alone, and she would hear me sing. And she once mentioned it to me, and she said, “You sound pretty down there. That’s pretty.” I said, “Oh, you heard me? I didn’t mean—.” I was just playing, denied completely. Flash forward, I’m in my senior year—I finished the university in 1949, had a bachelor’s degree in hand, it’s the summer. That’s the summer that the two boys, sons of Dr. Hillis Miller, the president of the university at that time, these boys and I had become friends. And I had planted in them the seed that, since they liked to take hikes, that what we really needed to do was to get up into Georgia and get out of the car. Take the bus up there, get out of the bus, and walk, and collect folk songs.





Because I was big on folk songs. By this time, I had finished my career at the University of Florida, been the baritone soloist, student director of the men’s glee club, founder of the first women’s glee club as a student and so forth. And sung my way into—what a lot of folks said was, “You’ve got a career in it.” Then managed go to New York in the fall, but there was the summer. But then, something happened in their family and they couldn’t go. And so, I did by myself. And I got up to Gainesville, Georgia, and got out of the bus there, walked home through the rest of it to Murphy, North Carolina, across the north of Georgia, spending the nights on people’s porches and so forth, if I could. Cutting them wood and doing stuff like that. Having meals from time to time, and listening to them—trying to listen to them sing. I didn’t get very much, but I did get up into Georgia… Where was my—? Oh! My cousin Emma, by this time, was living with her other daughter. Mary had moved out from here, moved in with her sister— Mary Gresham was not my cousin, was not living here in the house anymore, so Aunt Emma was not here. I called her “Cousin Emma.” She was in Georgia. I made a V back. I dipped into that town to visit her. And when we were facing each other, after just having a good hug for the first time in a long time, we’re just standing there facing each other, and she said, “Sing to me.” And right then and there, I just sang, and just poured my heart out to “Sweet Little Jesus Boy,” which was my main song. Which I’d done repeatedly unaccompanied, so it was easy to do. Just staring her in the face right there, and just sang my heart out to her. She said, “Oh, that was sweet.” Just the same thing from way back when she had told me from upstairs that it was sweet. I’m just trying to gather, tying some of these





things that I’ve talking been about here. They do have connections in my head, and they weave some of kind of tale. That—there was Cousin Emma up there, being lovingly supporting to me, but not knowing that she was also protecting me; I was a kid home from school alone. She knew where I was. As long as she’d hear me, it was all right, you know? But if she couldn’t hear me, she might want to come down and find out where I was, that kind of thing. So, this family was always protecting itself. Mary Gresham, my father’s cousin—Cousin Emma’s mother, and my grandmother’s mother were sisters. They were both Geigers.

And that’s why they were part of this household. And when Mary came to town to teach at Gainesville High School, it was just a natural that she would live here.

With Aunt Sissy. [Laughter] And she became just an inseparable part of this house. And in the, she had the big room—no, she had the middle bedroom. That’s right. Big room had been rented out to boys and things like that. So, she had the middle bedroom, and Gertrude Arrington had the upstairs bedroom. She was not kin to us, but my grandmother had rented Ms. Gertrude a room. She was a maiden lady from Trenton, and who had gone to stenography school here, and had a good job, stenographic position downtown in one of these court types of things. From time to time, she was a court reporter, I believe. She was a very tall—very unattractive face, unfortunately. And she wore the hairdo of the time.

Unfortunately, of a time of about ten, to twelve, to fifteen years prior. So, most everybody else had decided that their hair was not going to resemble a pyramid, and start in middle of the top of the head and go straight out for about where the ears were, and then come straight back in. A good six to eight inches. And that





was the pyramid hairdo that was popular in the mid-[19]20s. But Ms. Gertrude having apparently made one success with it, probably wore it forever in the hopes that there would be a second. But there never was. Probably due to the pyramid. Well, that was Ms. Gertrude, who lived upstairs. And she spent her time here in the house. And of course, we were all in the cold winters gathered in front of the fireplace in the dining room, which was where the heat was generated.

And then everybody would go off to the cold bedrooms. But we would seat in front of the fireplace. And I remember being just a tiny little child, and there was “Ducktude,” as I called her, and my grandmother, whom I called “Babby.” Because when they tried to get me to call her “Granny,” like her other grandchildren called her: “Babby.” Because it was easy to say, and I wanted to do my own thing, I suppose. Anyhow, she was Babby from that. And apparently, other people liked it so well that other people would call her up and ask if she’d mind if their grandchildren called them that. [Laughter] And I remember that. And then, David Keit, my best buddy out in the backyard—White buddy—and I got into a fight, and he came screaming up on the back porch, calling, “Babby!

Babby!” And I said, “You can’t her that! She’s not your Babby, she’s my Babby!” So he said, “Tommy’s Babby! Tommy’s Babby!” [Laughter] Is that making any sense? Rightly so. So much for naming people with odd personal names. We all did it, just like everybody else did. But I was pretty definite about wanting to call these folks what I wanted to. I did get over “Ducktude,” learned how to say Gertrude, and then did so. But Gertrude was a wonderful influence, too. She was fine. And then, she decided to move on, and Mary—the boys moved out, and so





Mary moved into the big back apartment—which was not an apartment at all, it was just a big bedroom, with a big closet. And everybody used the bathroom up in the middle of the hall, upstairs. And she would carry a bucket to the bathroom, load it up with water, take it back into the closet, where she had acquired some kind of a hot plate, and had an ice box put in. Not a refrigerator but an ice box, so that she could do some mild cooking up there. And she liked to do her own cooking. And that was the beginnings of that upstairs as an apartment, separate little thing. It’s still the same size, but now that big one is a bonafide kitchen, with all kinds of—everything installed properly, and a bathroom, a third bathroom has been built into the corner of that big room, along with a closet. So still, it’s a huge open space. And it is a wonderful studio apartment, filled to the brim with stuff I brought back with me from New York, some of which boxes have not been opened. That was 1991, this is 19— what? This is 2011. So, quite a while.

Almost twenty years in boxes. I’ll have to look at that someday, and see what’s in there. But Mary prospered in that room, and her buddies, teachers, gathered there, particularly the ones who liked to smoke and drink, and they did. And I would hold sessions amongst my high school friends in the backyard, watching these women whoop, and holler, and yell. [Laughter] And knowing some of these are our teachers; we were having such a wonderful time in the backyard just watching all of that. I didn’t know whether they knew we were—maybe they did, maybe they knew we were out there. Who knows? And they didn’t care. And it was nice to know, looking back, the teachers had a place where they could just do that—mainly teachers. And then, one of them married, and that put some kind





of a damper on it. And then, she began bringing the husband over, and then they all began to drift back again. The husband just became a part of it all. So, there were always teachers coming in and out of the house. They just would nod to me, because it was so common that they didn’t have to stop and introduce themselves, or stop and chat. It was just like some member of the family coming in to go upstairs. So, that was one of the magical parts of this place; there were people always coming and going. And if they were living here and they were not my mother, or my father, or my grandmother, they were friends of these other people, and they were coming and going. And this was their home. And this was the way my grandmother ran it. It was her house, and then it became, upon her death, all of the children’s; so, my father, his brother, half-brother, and his half- sister. And they promptly—was it promptly? No, maybe it wasn’t so promptly.

They all took over the years in helping to run the house, because times were bad. And they were doing better than my father whose health was now poor because of a wound he had experienced in high school, which worsened in France, in the trenches over there, and developed into cancer, and was cured by radiation. That’s the nutshell story of why my father was in and out of hospitals, notably Hines Illinois, in Chicago, a big veterans hospital up there, and then Lake City. And for a long periods of time, After the road was finished. And Two-Daddy had turned around and started building US 19, which then turned out to be the north-south artery of the west side of Florida, which opened up the entire west coast in ways it had never been opened before; just crisscrossed, angled country roads to get there. 19, which is Death Alley now I suppose, because it’s an open-





access highway. But it was an open access highway, but it rendered central and mid-Florida accessible to west coasters who were in Tampa and St. Petersburg. So they stayed there, moved from Cedar Key—Two-Daddy and Aunt Lil moved to Homosassa Springs, which was just a wide place in the road, a boomtown that got started and then collapsed after the streets had been laid out, sidewalks had been laid out, certain lamp posts had been put in—no wiring. And a hotel, which was finished, Spanish-style, stucco, two-story. Across from that, what would’ve been an arcade. An early version of a mall, I suppose? Inside, big open spaces with stores off of a pillared—structure started after the point where a lot of the cement was going on sides of it, and the stucco, and then just stopped. So, there was this hulking thing, wonderful reverberant space, great for yelling your head off. As I would go down to spend a couple of weeks with Two-Daddy and Aunt Lil in Homosassa Springs, going to swim in Homosassa Springs, where all the fish were. It’s now fish bowl, “nature’s fish bowl,” I think they call it, something like that. And people clamor from all over the world to see it. It was our own private place in those days. As the town was my private town. And Aunt Lil joined in readily with that; we all named various avenues. The main one was Cow Dung Avenue, because it always had it on it. [Laughter] So, that was how I would spend some time with Two-Daddy and Aunt Lil at the house in Homosassa Springs. What were they doing there? That was now a midpoint between Bradford at the Suwannee River, and St. Petersburg—or, Clearwater, just north of it, where the road ends. US 19. And that was his—he had to build the thing from the Suwannee River to that southern terminus. And so, instead of being on





Cedar Key, he got rid of—that house was sold, and it became the city hall of Cedar Key. It exists today as the city hall for Cedar Key. The hotel was next door, no longer called Schlemmer House—Lilly Schlemmer she was, before she became Lilly Schlemmer-Thomas—is now the public library of Cedar Key.

Beautiful building. Rebuilt with grants and so forth. And the house beautifully restored and so forth, and maintained as the city hall. The house was a firehouse for a long time; the hotel was underneath, and they ripped the whole front end off of it to make garage doors; they put all that back. [Laughter] And the firehouse is now behind City Hall, behind the little house. But I spent many a happy day in that house, looking out over the Gulf; and then, many a happy day in Homosassa Springs, where he moved the center of operations. But he would drive north from that point, and then south from that point, as they built the road. But naturally, they started doing the main business up at the northern end of it, and the farther south you became, the more out in the woods it was. And I remember going with him on a long trip, and he had a kind of big sapling down—one of those tall, skinny things—and trimmed all the branches off of it, and got all these men over there. They hoisted that thing up and let it go straight down out of sight in the muck to find out where the bedrock was—if there was any—to build that road, continue US 19. [Laughter] US 19 goes over that now, and to my knowledge no one has drawn up into the muck the way that pine tree did. It may not have been as tall as I thought it was. That’s part of the—that other word I was searching for. The apocryphal nature of tales. But it certainly looked tall to me! And it was a big job doing it, too; hoisting it all up, and then watching it just—shhhhh—just pushed





its way straight down like a hypodermic needle, straight in. Clean out of sight. So, that was the nature of the Gulf Hammock as we’d drive through. So it was business. He always had puttees on his legs when he came. And of course, his engineering breeches that flared out on the side—jodhpurs I suppose you’d call them if you were riding, during horse riding weather. Sometimes he had high-top boots that went all the way up, but most of the time it was regular high-top shoes and leggings strapped on to the side. Why? That was the first defense against rattlesnakes. Because they were there, you didn’t always see them, you didn’t always hear them, and that’s when they would strike. And they’d hit that leather puttee, and that was the end of it. [Laughter] But that was an extraordinary thing. I guess moccasins, too, but they’re sluggish, and they were not nearly that kind of problem. You might step on one somewhere. But that was the business about roadbuilding; you had to be watchful for that kind of thing, constantly. And US 19 is a testament to my uncle Frasier’s perspicacity, and his willingness to stick with something like that. And in the process, of drink himself to death. Because every time he arrived, he made a beeline for the kitchen with his satchel with him. And if I would follow him in there, he’d pay no attention to me whatsoever; he’d start water running the sink, and he’d talk out his little glass which he kept on a shelf— and nobody bothered with that glass—and a teaspoon, and the sugar bowl was always there. And he poured himself—I presume it was bourbon, into that thing, probably about halfway, and then a spoonful of sugar, and—clink-clink-clink, clink-clink-clink—“Hurry up, hurry up! Hurry up! Dissolve! Hurry up! Dissolve!” Then fill the rest of it with water, and just stand there and drink the whole thing





down. And he’d stand there for a while, he’d look out the kitchen window, hand on the sink. Then he’d turn around and look at me, and say, “Hey, sugar foots!” [Laughter] Which is what he’d call me. And then he’d have a big hug. First things first. So it just never occurred to me until many years later that he was an alcoholic, and that it was how he got through all of that business of building that road. Countless problems, people tugging at him all over the place, all the time, and then finally he was going to have a getaway to come over here and talk to Momma. And Aunt Lil, “Oh, Frasier, I wish you wouldn’t do that!” Why not? He seems so nice when he does! [Laughter] And I always got my dime, oh my goodness lime; my paid support? No, I loved him, I really did. Loved both of them, too. One of the high points of those visit to the springs, Homosassa Springs, was that she always had at least a half-full case of Coca-Cola bottles in her supply closet in the kitchen. And the rest of them had either been drunk or were in the refrigerator, and were freely available. And that made going to Homosassa Springs one of the great things, because it was the virtual home of Coca-Cola for me, I couldn’t afford one here! [Laughter] So, you see, they were the prosperous ones. He was the one who was making money for the whole family. Terrible times here for Daddy, trying to get rid of his health problems.

Momma immediately went to work, and she went to Stella Fisher’s stenography school over here in the second floor of a two-story building, which was directly across from the Florida Theatre—which still exists and is now being called the Florida Theatre of Gainesville. Again, finally, so much so that they have a big sign up on the top of it now saying that. But that’s where she learned to do





shorthand, and typing. And finally, we bought a big Royal typewriter for her. And that meant that she could bring work home from her jobs and make extra money. And she really got to be a whiz as a typist. And that served her well as she worked her way on up over the years into jobs at the university, and then got to the point where she was the administrator—they called it “Administrative Assistant,” I think that was the top level for people who did not have academic work there at the university—in the tung research laboratory. And she became an expert in the tung industry, and the process. Wrote a paper on it! But she was not absolutely going to let life pass her by; she had grown up in Floral City, because had been shot dead in 1912, along with his partner, in an argument with a third partner over bird dogs outside of their sawmill in Centralia, Florida, which is about ten miles due west of Brooksville, the southern end of what I call the central spine of Florida on which their pine trees grew. They were lumbermen, and they were very prosperous lumbermen. They were doing well, let me tell you! 1912: wars are brewing, everything is growing, everything is just a huge engine moving forward, and lumber crucial. And it was everything they could do. My grandfather had his own dummy railroad outside of Newberry, south of Newberry, which is the northern end of that spine that the pine trees grew on so nicely. And Momma was born in Dunnellon, but she went to school and was raised in Newberry, and she went to that little school that’s over there in Newberry, which is sort of a little resurrected historically-preserved building. The fact that her father was an important lumberman, and his brother, meant that they had land. They had large amounts of land. They deployed their profits back into





acquiring land, so that they would own it, and they could manage their groves— or, not their groves, but their plantings and so forth. They were mostly interested in that stage, though, in harvesting what nature had provided them with. They never got a chance to be planters, to plant their own forest, because they were shot dead by their partner, who got off with it somehow or other. But, he got away with all the land except for a hundred twenty acres, which was in the hands of the family, my grandmother, the widow. And that’s just south of Newberry, and that’s where I own the thirty acres that was the third—I mean, it was the quarter of that hundred and twenty acres that was parsed out to the boy and the three girls, my mother being one of them. And that accounts for why she was farmed out from Floral City to the Yearney family in Otter Creek. That was happening as my grandmother grew older and was unable to manage these growing kids. And they were getting up—Momma got through to the eleventh grade in Floral City, and there was no twelfth grade. The principal brought her in, he knew her very well, and he said, “Lucille, I’m so sorry. There’s nothing we can do about this; we just can’t do that.” He would call her in any time somebody couldn’t answer a question. Lucille could always answer the question. She was very bright, she was scholarly. So, she didn’t have a diploma, she didn’t have a high school diploma. So, if we could spring forward to the time when she was working at the university, she was enrolling in extension courses. And by this time, the Seagle building had been converted from the ten-story brick that had been built in the height of the Florida boom and then crashed, and just stood there all that time. And the university acquired it, finished it, and had its Extension Division operating there in





it. The Extension Division being outreach out into the community, all over the state, of ways and means to acquire a high school diploma and prepare yourself for college. Well, Momma latched right on to that very quickly, and in no time she had her high school diploma, and immediately began taking one course at a time at the University of Florida. And she just kept on doing that. She kept on doing that for so long, and then my father died in 1958—1958? Or, [19]57, 1957. And in 1958, I finished my doctoral degree at the University of Illinois, and she finished her bachelor’s degree at the University of Florida. And we swapped commencements. She came up to mine, and I came down to hers. [Laughter] And it was quite a time. But that didn’t stop her. She kept on going and got a master’s in Fine Arts, and taught school for twelve years at Littlewood school, and became—she was able to vent her scholarliness, and to utilize it, and to pass it on to other people in really quite wonderful ways. Because she was an artist and a painter, and the kids loved to flock over here in the backyard on Saturday afternoons and just paint their hearts out. And they had canvases up all over the place. It was lovely to see from a distance. But she was happy doing that, and they were happy painting there. And these paintings that are around here hanging up, as usual as they are—I don’t know how else to call them; they’re just simply usual paintings, nothing extraordinary about any of them other than the fact that they’re my Momma’s paintings. To me, they are very beautiful because they are her work, it’s an extension of her. And just throwing paint around; those were her azaleas in the backyard, hanging over the piano here.

What appealed to me immediately about it was the sense of abstraction that was





in there. She didn’t have to—she was not wedded to reality, to, what? Imitation. Trying to get the right lines in place where it looked like something. I had many scratch pads of hers, and she would just start scribbling around and going back and forth with these things, and finally something would shape up in there. She’d see it, and then she’d follow that shadowy thing, and then began putting colors into it, and then transfer it to a canvas, and go from there. And the stuff in the back hall—this is the most representative of all of them right there, the one over there. But it’s pointillistic. It’s hanging over the wall, there. She tells me that she did not know who Seurat was, the French painter who invented the concept of pointillism. That she hadn’t studied about him at all, but that she just enjoyed dabbling with things and got going. And maybe she saw something. She must’ve seen something, somewhere. But hadn’t studied it, hadn’t had a lesson on it, hadn’t researched it at all; ended up doing that. That’s the only piece pointillism she ever did. And I’ve always loved it because of that. It’s a non-descript little piece of work, but it went with me everywhere I ever went, from my cold-water flat in New York, the very first one I ever had. [Laughter] That was there in it, and it’s been around everywhere I’ve ever been. And so, it’s very loving to me. That’s the truth of all of them. Except those big azaleas; that was here, along with the huge one in the back hall. I did have this one behind you right here, which is a watercolor, an abstraction that is really not an abstraction, it’s actually quite pictographic of a phosphate flotation structure which, after the raw material has been mined out of the ground with the huge draglines that they have, that raw material is brought to the flotation plant, and hoisted up and dumped on to these





troughs that have water flowing down them. And that stuff slides down through it. And as it passes by, they are great beaters, which is a rod with blades sticking off of it, rather like a paddlewheel on a river boat. And it beats the stuff into a huge froth. And the water drives the chaff away. And what is eventually left over in this process is phosphate, the raw material, now, to process and send off to Europe for fields for fertilizer and that kind of thing. That’s why it’s a huge business in Central Florida; and of course, that’s where my grandmother ended up, was down there. Because her daughter—the one who had five children—had a job in the phosphate business. And so, my mother’s young brother went down there.

He was still a teenager at the time, he lived with his momma. He went on to become a major figure in the phosphate industry. And he was the superintendent of this huge flotation process. He died on the operating table at the age of forty- three, an operation for a gallstone. But he had a heart attack on the table. This was a disaster for the whole family, because the three girls and the boy—and he he was the baby—had just been born in 1912 when his father was shot dead. He never knew him. And he had—there he is, right there. Yeah. Next to Momma.

J.C., Joseph Clement, Long Jr. He has a son, also Joseph Clement Long. Fine- looking man. I really adored him, I loved him. Really great man. He ran that thing. He had the three children, he married the love of his life. And Momma was so distressed, when she went down, she took her sketchpad and her watercolors, and she went out to that mine, and stood there in the dead heat of that place, and just poured her hard into just thrashing the paint onto the page of this ramshackle structure—because there was nothing refined about these





structures. They were built, added on as the need—they were structures of the imagination of the people who were there. They built what they needed to do. They would configure in their minds what needed to be done, and then they would build it. And there were these people that were on the sidelines who’d come over and build it for them. They’d tell them, “This is what I want.” And my brother’s older sister was the reason that they all lived down there in the first place. Her husband was one of those people. He could do anything. He was just constantly being called out; he was the mechanical fireman. He responded to any kind of a breakdown. And he knew where to take something to get it made, and a foundry to get the part cast. Just like Uncle Frasier was—Two-Daddy—with his roadbuilding. When a part broke, he brought it to Archer, to the great foundry over there. Archer had one of the great businesses in the state. The foundry was over there. It’s just sort of sitting there now, I don’t know if they do any of that anymore. They may. There may be some casting or work over there. Do you know?

	M:	No, I don’t.



	F:	But the building structure is all still there. But that was one of the reasons that I can imagine that Two-Daddy would come roaring up: because he has a broken part. He’s on the way to Archer, but he’d side-wind to come over to see Momma Ann—get back to the kitchen sink! [Laughter] Oh, my goodness alive! So, J.C. died there, and she poured all of that into it. And the dead heat, and the rust, on those big sheets of corrugated iron that were nailed on to it, as part roof, part—it was the ricketiest structure you could imagine. It just barely stood up there. And it





was enormous. I know it well. But she poured herself into that as her own—well, maybe it’s to her own brother, I suppose. She cried herself through it, she said, because I yanked all of this out of her later on as to how it happened. “How did that come about?” I didn’t know what it was when I saw it; nobody ever knows what it is. It’s just a pure abstraction to anybody else. But with that tale in mind, can you see that there is some kind of rambunctious, almost early Florida kind of attitude toward an industry? “We got to get”—this was the original “Get ‘er done!” [Laughter] And J.C. had masterminded, and ran it, and was masterminding others. And then, suddenly it was eclipsed, like that. They all just heard it, we all heard it together. I got on a plane in St. Louis. I took a train or a bus—no, I took a bus to St. Louis from where I was to Champaign-Urbana [inaudible 2:10:54]. My next to the last year, this was [19]56 when J.C. died. And got on that plane, and flew out to that ugly thing right there. Because this was the family, pulling together. And my father had not died; he was there, too. So, that was one of the last two gatherings of the family as I knew it, and it wasn’t until one of the sisters died, much, much later. And then, finally, my Aunt Winnie died. But I’d enough of visits with her. Aunt Winnie was my mother’s oldest sister, and my mother was next, and then Josie was the third sister, and then J.C. was the baby boy. That was all that was left of the Long family, or our branch of it. The two Long boys, brothers, are buried in Forest Grove Cemetery, which is somewhere out in the cross-country hills south of Alachua, between Newberry and Alachua. There’s a big sort of a triangle between those towns and Gainesville, and up in those hills— 241, is it? The road from Jonesville north to Alachua, if you know that.





	M:	It sounds right, but I don’t know.



	F:	Well anyhow, that’s the road that goes right up the middle of it all. And the way to get to Forest Grove is to go Jonesville and up and over, or farther north, go over Alachua somewhere, but it’s always out there. And I always know where it is, and there are these two woodmen of the world, big tree trunks sitting over their graves. Man I never knew. He’s behind my grandmother, who’s sitting there in that little curly-cue frame up at the top with the little white collar on?

	M:	Oh, behind.



	F:	And he’s—my mother in her chair, in her blue dress down in front there, and in the middle, is—there he is, J.C.’s father.

	M:	Oh, I see.



	F:	Apparently quite a guy, quite a guy. Really was getting out there, doing things. Making money. And to have this guy steal it all, just take it all from him. So that hundred and twenty acres really was central to my grandmother’s being. Her kids were all grown, the grandkids were all grown, the great-grandkids were [inaudible 2:13:32] the daylights out of her. But the hundred twenty acres are still firm. And who are they for? For them, you see. All these others that are out there, playing around. But divided up into fours. So Winnie had a fourth, Josie had a fourth, Momma had a fourth, and J.C. had a fourth. Which he split into thirty acres each. So they split that up into the three ten-acres for the three kids. Two of them sold off immediately—Aunt Winnie sold off hers. And that left Momma’s thirty, Josie’s thirty, and Julie, the daughter, who hung on to her ten. So, there are seventy acres out there that are still in the family, have not been sold. I was out there last





week. I’d come out to a forestry project—I keep agile with these outfits about burning and so forth, and they know me as one of the landowners in that group. We all have sort of a reasonably tight group, maybe twenty-five, thirty people that meet regularly to discuss how to manage our lands out there. And so, I came back that way, and got out of the car, and wandered around, and immediately three people started walking across the field to me. And they were the—some of the tenants. They’ve been there long enough, but we really haven’t gotten the chance to meet each other. And they were absolutely delightful. They were so afraid I would fall down, they wanted to make sure that I didn’t fall down out there by myself. [Laughter] So they came over, they obviously wanted to chat. But it was so very nice and neighborly. And they’re so delighted that I haven’t sold it.

Because it’s their own private woods, and they’re beautiful. It rolls. I have planted seven thousand trees out there in various places were needed it. Where it was balding, we put the trees in, no particular order. Our friend Moe, who planted them for me, is long gone now. He went up to Georgia, got them in his own pickup truck, came back with them in boxes, and he did one box, probably of a hundred: plop it down, and start using them in a big spiral out from that box. And that’s sort of how they were planted. And many of them are really quite tall, now; that was some time ago. Some years ago, yeah. So, reforesting the land even at this late date—reforesting? I’m sure a lot of it had been bare, but that’s where the sawmill was. I can’t find any evidence of where it was. I know that there was big pile of sawdust out there for years, but I can’t find that there. But that’s the nature of stuff that I hang on to. I don’t know whether I ever really want to sell it. It’s





listed for sale, but nobody’s bought it. I want too much money for it, I suppose. Because I’m still asking—well, somewhat, I mean I’ve cut the price—but I was still asking what people were asking for at the peak of the land boom. When I see what people are selling and charging for, this land is worth it. Beautiful place to build, if the money ever gets out there. Because it’s off the road, there’s no paved road that leads to it. Only the road that Momma had cut years ago, and that all these people now use. It’s reasonably well-rutted, there’s still a puddle in one place and have to go through it to get to it. [Laughter] So, I have to worry about cutting fire lines and all, to make sure that that gets done, so that my property doesn’t cause a problem for a neighbor. So, to that extent, I am a landowner.

Thirty acres. And if it never gets sold, that’s all right by me; I want to see that goes into some kind of preservation business. I want to see how that percolates, though. A lot of people are doing it right away; I’m not ready to do that. I’ve learned a little bit about that over the years, about not plunging in at the first.

	M:	Oh, yeah.



	F:	Oh, I’m a pioneer. I’ll plunge in if I’m the leader of something; if I’m the creator of the whole thing, fine. But I’m not too worried if there are people jumping up joining with me, because I still don’t know what the outcome is going to be.

	M:	I can understand that.



	F:	And with some of those things New York when—I didn’t know what to do, and neither did anybody else. You just do what you think is the right thing to do. And sometimes things happen very nicely; sometimes they just sort of middle out.

And that’s the way I feel about that land out there. If it doesn’t get bought, fine.





My will will take care of it. It will go—where, I haven’t decided yet. [Laughter] But if I learn more about what people are doing with theirs, and there is a genuine movement and it has a future, then I’ll see to it that it gets in as a part of it. But I’m not the innovator there. I don’t know enough about it to be an innovator. And that has pretty much led the way I run my life. I remember when my father said to me—the only real wise thing he ever said as a piece of wisdom: “If you don’t know what to say, don’t say it.” You know? He said, “If you don’t have anything to say, don’t say it.” That’s, to me, is a nice little piece of wisdom to get passed on. I can’t think of anything else like that that he ever said. [Laughter] He just made the ordinary mistakes that folks did, and then died. Very quiet in the end, didn’t create any big doings. Whether that motivated me to want to do something that would leave a mark, I don’t know. But whatever I did, the mark is gone. But it made a mark—it’s like cutting a cake, in a sense. [Laughter] That was my little mark. I made some big cuts into a cake in Manhattan and the rest of the boroughs, and the cake has been eaten. And another cake is there for somebody else to cut. And those are the tales that we’ll talk about some other time, I suppose. Now where have we brought me to? Have we brought it to this house, and we’ve gotten out of dining room, we’ve gotten out of the rooms upstairs, I think—mine was the little one up in the corner. When I was old enough that became mine. There’s a little sewing room up there. Nice little bedroom. It’s now my theatre: it has a big screen, and a couple easy chairs. And my room is the one directly overhead, and I had two friends who live here, one in the middle bedroom, and one in the downstairs bedroom, the 1926 room. And we get along





fine. They pitch in and do heavy things around the house; that floor out there, I could have never done that. The front hall was just redone over the weekend. And this room was next. These floors haven’t been done nicely for a long time, and they’re hard pine. Up until the time that Momma did it, in the very early [19]40s, these rooms were—they were all very dark. The floors were very dark mahogany. They’re pine, but they’ve been stained mahogany. And they have darkened over the years. And the wallpaper was dark brown, just flat brown paper. And it had a sort of little funny Romanesque border around it—paper border—and then, the ceiling was this imitation cloud. Just a series of zigzags of silvery stuff on white, which was very common at that time to me. The ceiling resembled the outdoors. And that was the only bright spot about it; the woodwork was all mahogany. There simply wasn’t any contrast to the place. And when Momma got hold of the house—and it was absolutely hers, no question about it—then the floors were all sanded at one time. Just a big massive thing; moved out and the floors were sanded. Our Mr. Cruce, C-R-U-C-E, who as very hard of hearing, but didn’t matter. Because when he sanded was this screech, terrible sound. [Laughter] But he knew exactly what he was doing. He drove those things the way John drove that steamroller. [Aside about leg falling asleep.] And the result was the reddest floors I’ve ever seen anywhere. And not red in the sense of being painted red with a red color; it was just red pine. Beautiful, exquisite stuff. And Momma had the woodwork painted white, except for the trim up there, which she left mahogany. That’s what the woodwork was in all of it. See that?

What I’m pointing to up there is the gingerbread work over the double doors





leading from the front hall into the parlor, and then over the double entryway without doors, from the front hall to the back, is the same kind of thing across the top there. And that was a decorative feature which had just simply disappeared. But now it’s sprung out, and I like it that way. It’s also a relic of the color that I can talk about. The woodwork and the floors were all like that. So, it was very dark and it didn’t matter if you had the windows open; there were just glares and darkness. And with the walls suddenly being papered in beautiful, yellowish patterned colors, little floral pattern, the place suddenly became very bright and very cheerful. And Momma really blossomed with all that, and so her Garden Club members would have their meetings here and so forth. She was one of the original founding members of the Garden Club, and did a lot of planting. And she planted all these big trees around the house here, which are so tall now. And when they were cut down mercilessly when they built the 400 behind, when she was in New York; came back and found them all cut down, at least on that back portion of the lot back there. That would be the southwest corner of that lot.

Whatever trees that have grown up there now are essentially junk trees, they are not the oak trees she planted all along. But they’re there, and they’ve sort of filled in the space. But that was the kind of person she was. And all of these azaleas. She was into it early enough so that she would go out in the woods—we would go out in the woods and get natural plants to bring them in. You couldn’t find them; there was no nursery to go to, to find these kinds of things. So the pinkbud trees, the redbud trees, the dogwood trees; they all came from somebody else’s land. But nobody cared. That’s where everybody went: out the woods to get a





tree. That’s where you went to get your Christmas tree. I remember the 1941 one, when B.F. Williamson showed up in his car where we were on Sunday afternoon, December 7th, 1941, out getting our Christmas tree in the new Ford sedan with the radio in it. The prime job was to get out and find our Christmas tree. So we had gone out onto Mr. Williamson’s—Momma knew Mr. Williamson; she didn’t think he’d mind. And he didn’t recognize her at first. So, he came storming up to the driveway, and shouting, “What are you doing out there? Oh, Lucille, that you?” [Laughter] “Oh, okay, it’s all right.” So, we had our Christmas tree. But coming back in, we turned the radio on. And December 7th, 1941: the day which will live in infamy became known over the radio of that 1941 Super- Deluxe Ford V8. Beautiful car. Strange day. Wonderful day, bad day. Anyhow, I guess I’ll terminate on that particular point. I think on where—got us at least to 1941, and I think by this time I’m well into the boy scouts, climbing my way very slowly up the ladder. [Laughter] But the Presbyterian troop 5: nine boys, raggle- taggle. We each had our own separate uniform, and it looked different from anybody else’s. But we had them on, and—

	M:	Was that a distinct troop from the other boy scouts in Gainesville?



	F:	Absolutely. Very different from all the rest of them. There were five—one, two, three, four, five—churches in the American Legion. One was Holy Trinity, four was the Baptist Church, five was the Presbyterian church, two and three were—I don’t remember what the others were, but one of them was [inaudible 02:27:32]. And the others seemed to have large troops, and either funds for the uniform, or the parents were just able to afford them. Episcopalians were always wealthier





than anybody else anyhow. So that was—how the Methodists got it, I don’t know. The Methodists actually had the largest troop. That was a troop of the 302. But all those boys—and when it came time for the field meet—the field meet being where troops gathered from around this part of the state, and you do what you know how best do to in the hopes that you will win the pennant and do it better than anybody else. We—I suppose—cheated in the long run, because what we did was how wars are won. We taught each other how to do things perfectly—as close to perfectly as you could—and didn’t worry about anything else. I just learned how to do this one thing: I knew how boil water faster than anybody else. And I had to start from scratch, of course. Flicking the wood with flint stones and so forth, nurturing the fire, and then having it boil the soap suds that are in it up to a point where it overflowed. Or if you were trying to build a fire, when it burned the string stretched across the two posts over the fire; things like that. And it was a race. Everybody—boom! [Claps] Everybody’s racing to start doing it. And if you had practiced this over, and over, and over again, and everybody giving you pointers on how to do that, whatever you knew, you added to that, and honed this personal specialty. That was mine: boiling water. A portent for the future? I don’t know. [Laughter] But that rest of them had these other tasks, and they learned how to do that, too. And we nine boys won the Field Day, and brought the pennant home to Troop 5, much to the consternation of all these guys in their uniforms and their perfect neckerchiefs all at the same level, their hats all on straight. [Laughter] We didn’t have any hats. Oh, how funny! And who was the head of all this? Who was throttling this stuff? Who were the people who were





running those troops for the church? Well the actual day-to-day business was a man called Lester Haile, who was a professor of speech. He’d gotten his doctorate in speech, theatre, at LSU—Louisiana State University—and had the job here with professor—not doctor, but professor—Henry Phillip Constans, C-O- N-S-T-A-N-S, who was the professor of debate and that whole business about literature, and oral literature, and theatre. And his son, Phil Constans, was one of nine of us boys. I was in and out of that house. And in and out of Lester Haile’s house. Haile at that time didn’t have children of his own. He finally had daughters. But he didn’t have any sons. We were his kids. And he nurtured this troop. We couldn’t care less about all of these formalities. We were interested in getting this job done, here. And that’s—we learned from him how to do that. And he became the first professor of speech pathology—called “speech correction”— at the University of Florida; he was the founding professor of that aspect of it, which was nurtured into the speech—not speech and hearing, but Speech Theatre. Debate—what’s another? Am I missing a word there? But Prof Constans was our, he was our Sunday school teacher. Lester Haile was our choir director, and of course scoutmaster. Lester Haile and Constans were the few of the people of debate professors and so forth, and oral interpretation of literature, and that kind of thing. They comprised the speech department. And that’s where I grew up, in and out. Knowing Lester Haile, who, eventually, I would take all the courses that he had to offer there in speech correction. But I wanted a degree in music. But the music division, which came into being in my junior year—not into being until my senior year, but the foundations of it, the first





professor, the founding professor, arrived during my junior year, there having been no sophomore year. I went from—maybe I went straight to sophomore. That’s what they did for the kids coming back from the war. You got certain credit for certain courses, and so I got my bachelor’s degree at the end of the war in three years; came back in [19]46, and finished in [19]49. And so, it was—the glee club was my fraternity, in my first year. And the second year, it was my sorority, because I founded the Women’s Glee Club when they arrived in my second year here. And Professor DeBruyn, the director of the university Men’s Glee Club, said, “Tommy I can’t do this; you need to do this.” I was the baritone soloist, and the student director of Women’s Glee Club. So, I did that, and it was a wonderful, wonderful year. And meanwhile, taking all speech courses, and chemistry, and all these other things that I had to do to get out of the way—physics and so forth. Then finally finished my degree in my senior year, and it was just a bachelor’s degree in speech. But I had also taken in my senior year every possible music course I could, because the music division opened in my senior year. It came into being. And that’s when all of the other professors arrived and took over and started teaching things. And the professor of voice, who was going to be the women’s chorale director, came along and obliterated all references to the founding of the University of Florida Women’s Glee Club in 1947.

	M:	What were the motivations behind that?



	F:	Just—he was an oaf, to begin with. It must’ve been hard to find people there at the end of the war, that close to the end of the war, who had enough degrees and enough experience to come into a founding group of things and start a





program. It must’ve been hard to find somebody to do that. The one who came to found the men’s group, Joseph Lutkevich—called “Lupkowits”—was a fine man. And he took over for Prof DeBruyn, who then just taught private voice lessons, who had been the founder of the thing. And he was fine, and we had to have a piano accompaniment, first time in the history of the Men’s Glee Club that it had a piano accompaniment. Always a capella group, all that. I liked him very much. I liked his wife; I think she taught piano. Then the Sterretts came, Delbert Sterrett and his wife Jane Sterrett. And though they fancied themselves Broadway singers, and they had that loud musical comedy approach to musicality, and they were just as gross in their personal habits right along with that. I can say this because this is a quite true interpretation of it. I was not the only one who had that feeling about it. But a lot of people fell in behind them, because that’s the way they were, and that’s fine. But for that to have been the sensitivity level for the University of Florida Women’s Glee Club; always a stone in my craw. Because we started out on a much calmer attention to the kind of beauty that had been entrenched in us with Professor DeBruyn, and his sense of musicality, and musicianship, tonality, and quality. And those women, we learned to sing nicely according to those principles. And they sang beautifully. The first group I heard from him, they were more like cheerleaders. And that was pretty much the way they approached it. And it was this joyful business, it was always loud; there was never solely lovely. Just didn’t do that. And that was the two of them. And when they invited me, early on their arrival, to join them for dinner in their new house without any furniture, we ate off some boxes of unpacked stuff in





an otherwise empty house, out of food boxes. And they said, “We’ll square with you: we want to know where to start right here in the city of Gainesville. You come from an old family here; you know. You can tell us, who are the people for us to fall in with? We don’t want to work out way up some ladder and get to it.” So I said, “Well, okay, I can deal with sensible honestly here, and directness. I’ll fix you.” [Laughter] So, I made sure that they fell in with a crowd just as coarse as they were, and that they would feel at home with, and who would welcome them; and at the same time, in no way endanger musicality as it could also exist in the city of Gainesville. And those people went to become dearly beloved people in that stratum. And I moves around that stratum—I don’t think I ever moved through it, I moved around it—in my lifetime, and I counted it right and left in New York once I got up there, because it’s rampant up there, too. But there was also musicality in New York. And I just seemed to know where to find it, and stumbled into it beautifully, so that I didn’t have to climb up any ladders. I found myself virtually at the top of it with the people who were running the most beautiful stuff vocally. Without any labor on my part to hunt it out, I just fell in with the people— you know how like finds like?

	M:	Oh, yeah.



	F:	And we just found each other. And the fact that I didn’t really want to stay in this tiny little cubicle room all by myself when I first moved there, and read an ad that said, “Okay, here are two guys that have an extra bed in the apartment. Three people can live in this thing, and there are just the two of us. We want to find somebody to come in. And I went to interview them, and they were Julliard





students. One a piano major, one a clarinet major. And we were at fifth floor walkup of the building at the other end of the Julliard School on Morningside Avenue—no, no, Claremont. Claremont. What am I thinking? Claremont Avenue, Morningside Avenue was on the other side of town. Claremont Avenue. And that—the whole apartment—became the center of a very elite little group of people. Some of best singers from Julliard were matched up with this pianist and another good friend of his who had finished already, but was suddenly an older guy around which everybody sort of gathered, and that was David Garvey, who played magnificently. And Ben Jenkins, who was my piano major, doing beautiful work, as the clarinetist was too. I learned to really appreciate the clarinet for what it has as a magnificent solo instrument. So, there I was in this, and I was the singer at this point. And fell in with the Julliard singers. And they all went to greatness; they just shared the itch. So, they were already there, and I just fell into this little group by virtue of answering an ad. See? That’s the kind of thing. I didn’t really work at trying at it, but I worked at not being stuffed off in a cubicle by myself. And took the plunge to go somewhere else. And that was the first step, and it was by no means the last step that I took in that fashion. And those steps led me, ineffably, to some wonderful places. And to wonderful people. For instance, David Garvey, the pianist—the father-figure pianist—not that much of a father, he was just a head or two older than we were, is all—was the pianist for this Black gal from Laurel, Mississippi, who was living in I-House, International House: a place across the street from Julliard where kids came to live in their little cubicles there. But they were close together. And there were people of like





ilk in International House; lots of Julliard students, for instance. But this little Black gal had this absolutely exquisite lyrical voice. Yes. None other than Leontyne Price, the greatest classical diva operatic voice of the twentieth century. [Laughter] And David Garvey was her life-long accompanist. And guess who was the lifelong page-turner in all of the Carnegie Hall recitals and all of the others? Well, it was little Tommy Fay from Gainesville. Because we all fell in together, and we grew together, and we would depend on one another. We knew each part of the triangle to carry, you see? And I knew how to stay out of the way, and to be invisible on the stage at Carnegie Hall—or at least, so I thought. But that’ll be another time, when we talk about that. Because I know we’ll come back to that. Because that’s a big slice of the New York pie, there. But that’s what I’m trying to get at, is that once I left here, and had done my little folksong-finding tour in the summer, got on the train at the new railroad station at 6th Street and Court Street—now 3rd Avenue and 6th Street. Now the anchor building, I guess, for the downtown Santa Fe College. The old railroad station. I left from it as a new depot, and traveled by train for some years, and then finally began to step over to flying by the plane as the dollars piled up in my wallet. And planes became more available and cheaper, and the train got more agonizing. So, my life in New York began in September of 1949, and ended in October 1991, forty- two year span, with four years off in the middle from [19]54-[19]58 to get my doctorate from the University of Illinois. So, here I am; I’ve grown up here, I’ve loved this town, loved this house, love the people in and around it. Love my church, love my school, my university; never stopped feeling part of it. And





stepped onto the train here and said goodbye, and stepped off of the train in New York into an entirely different kind of life, which I joyously lived until [19]91, and joyously came home. And I’ve only been back maybe three or four times to spend any time there, visit a week or so, and then ready to come back home.

And so, here we are. We’ll probably come back to Gainesville from time to time because that’s where all of these little insights that might’ve sprung into something different began, and that will be a natural part of what I talk about later on.

	M:	Fair enough.



	F:	So, that’s it.



	M:	That’s a good place to close then, at least for today.



	F:	Oh yeah, sure. So, we begin next time starting out in New York, I think. Is that okay?

	M:	That sounds great. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Toni-Lee Maitland and Anna Jimenez, April 14, 2014 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, December 7, 2017

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019