AAHP 067; Moss; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 067 Deborah Moss

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Matthew Clark on September 5, 2009 18 minutes | 11 pages



Abstract: This interview takes place during Black Alumni weekend at the Hilton hotel September 5th, 2013. Ms. Deborah Moss talks about her journey before and after being a student at the University of Florida. She describes her student life at Broward Hall and how that was the reunion place of her and her friends. This place was known as the gathering place for a lot of African Americans in the 1970s, as she described that this was the place where she met her husband. In addition, Ms. Moss says that her and her husband have influenced her daughters decision of coming to UF and her daughters journey when applying and being accepted in UF.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]













































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 067

Interviewee: Deborah Moss Interviewer: Matthew Clark Date: September 5, 2009



	C:	Today is Saturday, August—September. Saturday September 9th, I’m at the Hilton on UF campus. My name is Matthew Clark. What’s your name?

	M:	Deborah Moss.



	C:	Deborah Moss? M-O-S-S? M:	Yes.

	C:	And you’re from the graduating class of? M:	1979.

	C:	1979, from which college? Sorry, just trying to get all the information. M:	Public Health and Health Professions.

	C:	I want to thank you first so much for letting me do this interview with you. Basically I’m going to be asking you questions about like your educational experience at UF, and some background information about why you came to UF.

	M:	Okay.



	C:	Just to start out, what was your educational life before you came to UF? What kind of—did your parents stress education in your life? What was your high school environment like?

	M:	My parents stressed education, but really nobody in my family had ever formally went to a college. And I knew I wanted to go to college, but I had no idea about where I wanted to go or what I wanted to do. In high school, I was always just one of those who kind of did my work and did what I was supposed to do in high school. And this man came to our high school, and I believe his name was Mr.





Matthis. And he spoke to us about the University of Florida, and had us sign some papers.

	C:	You were sold from that point on? M:	Yeah.

	C:	So, you said that your parents had never formally gone to college. Were you the first person in your family to attend?

	M:	Yes.



	C:	You were the first one to get a degree? M:	Yes.

	C:	Did you consider choosing a historically Black college over UF? Was that ever like a conscious decision that was made between you and your family?

	M:	No.



	C:	Okay. What were some of your interaction with your professors and the staff member on campus?

	M:	For the most part, the interaction was positive. Back then, I had a lot of classes that were, like, just really big-type classes where you really had no personal contact with the professors. I had a few professors—it’s been so long I can’t remember their names—that really reached out, and tried to form a personal relationship and help you out.

	C:	In what ways would they try to reach out? Do you have any examples?



	M:	Like if, say if you needed some help, or if you needed something explained to you. And I know, from my background for instance, like, I’ll give a good example: I had a humanities class, and I was never really—I was culturally deprived, I





guess I’ll say it like that, as far as the arts, and Mozart, and all of that kind of stuff. Dealing with all of that aspects of the humanities, that was like Greek to me. And I remember we had to read this book, The Wasteland by T.S. Elliot. I went through, and I read the book. It really didn’t make a—you know, I really couldn’t connect with the book, because it really never made any sense with me. And we had to read that book, and this other book, The Portrait of Dorian Gray. And he wanted us to—the first question on the test was to name the characters in The Wasteland. That was just mind-boggling to me, because I had read it and don’t remember any characters being in the book! [Laughter] So, okay. This is a problem. Then the next question was, “Compare the characters in The Wasteland to the characters in The Portrait of Dorian Gray.” So since I didn’t know the first one, I couldn’t answer the second one. And every question in that test was about those characters in The Wasteland. And see, in my mind a character was like, if John was a character. And they were like, these were like, implied-type characters. And I couldn’t abstract those characters out of that book. So I finally wrote on the test, “I’m sorry, I cannot take this test because I did not know that there were characters in The Wasteland.” [Laughter] Even went up and gave it to him. So, you know, he stopped, and he talked to me, and he kind of explained what he was talking about. And then he gave me something, he gave me an alternate assignment to do.

C:  So in this case, the professor was definitely willing to work with you, very friendly. Good professor, it sounds like. Great, awesome. What was the social climate like when you attended UF?





	M:	Well, the—when I came here was in the early [19]70s, and I would say, for me it was very cohesive. Because all of us Black students kind of hung out in one place: Broward Hall Lobby

	C:	What place? Where? M:	Broward Hall Lobby. C:	Okay.

	M:	Everybody kind of met at Broward Hall; played cards there, they had a little cafeteria downstairs. That was the official hangout place, Broward Hall Lobby.

	C:	Did you guys kind of have a community, it sounds like, down in that area?



	M:	Yeah, kind of had a little community. You knew everybody. In fact, I met my husband in Broward Hall Lobby.

	C:	Really?



	M:	Yes!



	C:	How did you guys meet?



	M:	In Broward Hall Lobby, the first time I actually came down to the lobby, I met him in the lobby. I mean, we just start talking and—

	C:	You guys just like ran into each other and start talking and everything?



	M:	Yeah, and that was the first time I’d ever seen him, right there at Broward Hall Lobby.

	C:	How long did you guys date before you met? M:	Before we married?

	C:	Or before—yeah, sorry.





	M:	That was in 1972. We married in 1975. So, we’ve been married almost thirty-five years now.

	C:	That’s wonderful. I’m kind of really interested in that. Did you guys stick together and help each other out in terms of kind of this Broward Hall Lobby group, or was it—?

	M:	I think it was very cohesive. Because, you know, like, a lot of times—a lot of us were first generation students, and you know, with the financial aid thing; after you paid your tuition and your books and everything, they give you this big pile of cash. And all we went to the malls, and bought us clothes, and stereos, and TVs, and whatever you could think of. And about half way through the quarters— because they didn’t have semesters back then—we ran out of money! [Laughter] So we would all get together and do things like, you know, I have a can of string beans, my friend might have a can of corn; we’d all get together and make these dishes.

	C:	Would you do these in your rooms, or down in the lobby everywhere?



M:  We would do these like up on the floor, because they actually had—we had hot plates and stuff on the floor. And we had nice little dinners made out of nothing, and it was actually delicious.

C:   It was great, yeah.



	M:	Yeah. And I have a lot of lifelong friends that I’m still in contact with from the university here.

C:  Great. Were there ever any White students who came to the Broward Hall area? M:  Yeah. In fact, my roommate was White.





	C:	And you guys got along great, and like, same kind of cohesion still?



	M:	Yeah I didn’t have any problem. I would say so. In fact, I had three White roommates at the University of Florida, and I didn’t have any problems with any of them. Except for the one; and it wasn’t a problem, it’s just that she was from up north, and she—I guess it was too hot for her down here, you know? And being a native Floridian, she wanted the windows open when it was like forty degrees outside. I’m like, “No! It’s cold in here!” [Laughter] And they didn’t have air conditioner in those dorms back then.

	C:	There’re still a few ones that don’t have air conditioning, and I don’t know how students live in those. That must be insane. Did you ever encounter any hostile situations on campus? I mean you said it was pretty much good.

	M:	I wouldn’t—“hostile,” I can’t say it was hostile. You know, anything hostile. I’ve had some negative experiences, but you know, it’s like if you said something to me, then I got to prove you wrong. I know when I applied to graduate school, you had to make a one thousand on the GRE, and I think I made 970. So you have to have an interview with the department head, his name was Dr. Mutart. So I interviewed with him, and he says, “Well, I’ll let you in conditionally, but I really don’t think you can make it. But we’ll see.”

	C:	So you had to prove him wrong.



	M:	Had to prove him wrong. So at the conclusion of the program, I had to have an exit interview. I guess he remembered what he said. He said, “I really didn’t think you were going to make it, but you did.” [Laughter]

	C:	Just like that?





	M:	Just like that. He was just kind of like—.



	C:	Were there any aspects of your time of UF that you wish could be different?



Looking back on it.



	M:	Well, I’m the type of person that I believe that everything happens for a reason, and that journey in my life, I appreciate every aspect of it. Because from it, beautiful friendships, gained a husband, and I got to know a lot of aspects of Gainesville. Because I moved outside of the college community and got to know a lot of people in the actual Gainesville community. And it’s nothing that I would change.

	C:	Where did you learn about the Gainesville community outside of the university community?

	M:	What’s beautiful is, and I guess—because a lot of the young people from the city would actually come to Broward Hall to hang out. So I met a lot of them, and then when I moved off campus, I moved actually into a little house in the city part of Gainesville. And we would go to the—we would have to find our soul food restaurant, so you met people at the different restaurants, and then I joined one of the local churches and gained a lot of friends.

	C:	What local church?



	M:	Mt. Carmel. It was right down 5th Avenue at the time.



	C:	Okay, was there any separation ever between, like, the townies and the campus kids? Was there like any tension? Or was that cool, like, you guys hanging out?

	M:	I never saw any of that. I never saw any of that.





	C:	Okay. You said you never formally participated in any groups. Were there any types of organizations or cliques that you did hang out with?

	M:	You know, like, whatever was going on. If something was happening that I wanted to attend, I did; if not, I didn’t. But I didn’t join. I wasn’t a member of any formal group.

	C:	Okay. Were there any groups—like, today we have the Black Student Union.



Were there any organizations like that on campus?



	M:	They had the Black Student Union, and I would go over there to the Institute of Black Culture. And I would go listen to the choir sing, but see I couldn’t sing, so I couldn’t join the choir. But I never really joined, formally joined anything. I loved going to different programs, but I never formally joined anything.

	C:	What kind of programs were, like, your highlights at UF?



	M:	I loved to go to the step shows. They had them all the time. Those were always nice. Would always go see the choir, the gospel choir, perform. And then they had all of these nice concerts. They had the best concerts, and concerts, like, Stevie Wonder was three dollars.

	C:	Yeah.



	M:	So, Stevie Wonder, The Temptations, Tina Turner. All these— C:	Great, amazing musicians for like three bucks.

	M:	Always great concerts. Isaac Hayes. C:	That’s awesome.

	M:	I enjoyed that.





	C:	If you had the ear of the UF administration today, what kinds of advice would you give them about making an inclusive environment on campus?

	M:	I think what they’re doing now is, I think they’re really doing a good job. My daughter just got accepted to University of Florida.

	C:	Well, tell her I said congratulations.



	M:	Yeah. She’s been here two weeks, and I came up to the orientation, and been looking lot of the things that’s going on. And I really think they’re making an effort to make this—you know, to make this more diverse. And I think things are a little different these days, because personally, I believe that prejudices and separation is something that’s taught. And if kids aren’t taught this, then they don’t have that problem. And I saw that with her in high school, and with all of her friends, and I think that as time go by, that, unless it’s perpetuated in the family and the community, it’s going to eventually stop.

	C:	So you’re daughter goes here, now. What was that like during like, when she was choosing what college to go to, and what university to apply for?

	M:	Well we didn’t give too much choice! [Laughter] C:	What do you mean by that?

	M:	Well, we would bring her up to all of the—like, when we come up to this function, we would bring her. And kind of like preach to her how great it was to go to the University of Florida. Then, a lot of her instructors at her high school went to the University of Florida, and they would have a little Gator memorabilia on their desks. Then after I brought her up here to some kind of two day program they





have for kids in their junior year, where you come up and you experience—I think she was kind of sold after that.

	C:	Did she apply to any other universities?



	M:	She applied at South—she applied to Central Florida. And I couldn’t get her to apply anywhere else. She didn’t even want—she only wanted to apply to Florida. And I said, “You know, that’s great but—”

	C:	Have a backup. [Laughter]



	M:	Yeah, always have a backup plan, I say. Because you know, it’s a—I know that the standards are higher, and then they have a lot of kids applying. So always have something just in case. And she did finally agree to apply to Central Florida. And she was very excited when she got accepted.

	C:	Do you kind of see UF as being part of a legacy with your family now? M:	I do.

	C:	As a parent, what advice would you actually give to somebody who’s looking into what college or university to attend?

	M:	Well, I always tell people how great Florida is. You get a great education, lifelong friends, excellent networking, and you know, I think that’s all you need to succeed.

	C:	How did UF change or not change, like, who you were as a person going through the process? Like, when you came into the university, what kind of person were you, and how did that change when you came out?

	M:	Well, I think—because I consider myself kind of quiet and shy—I think I’m a little more assertive and outgoing, and I can tell that by my Myers-Briggs score.





[Laughter] I remember we had to take that when I came in, and I was like, introverted. I went from introverted with the other three letters to, now I’m extroverted with the other three letters. So.

	C:	Do you think that’s part of the environment that UF had for you that made you that way?

	M:	I think so. You know. Had opportunities to overcome a little bit of that shyness, and be more open and outgoing.

	C:	That sounds wonderful. I want to thank you so much letting me do this interview with you.

	M:	You’re welcome.



	C:	I really appreciate it. M:	All right.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Anna Jimenez, April 29, 2013 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, August 7, 2013 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019