AAHP 541; Barrington; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 541 Eddie Barrington

Interviewed by Mariana Castro, Christian Tirado, and Sam Dixie on December 1, 2017

1 hour, 11 minutes | 27 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Mr. Eddie Barrington focuses on his experiences in the Civil Rights Movement in Tallahassee, Florida, working with the Inter-Civic Council led by Reverend C.K. Steele, and helping to organize the Tallahassee Bus Boycott of 1956.

He describes how he got involved, names some of the other people who participated as well as those who refused to participate, and details some of the strategies, major actions, and events from the boycott. He also describes being present in Washington,

D.C. for a speech by Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.



In addition, Mr. Barrington describes some of his experiences serving in the U.S. Army in World War II. He was a member of the 823rd Aviation Engineer Battallion, and his unit was deployed to India to work on the Ledo Road. Mr. Barrington also shares some memories of growing up near Lloyd, Florida, including doing farm work and pulpwood.

He also discusses his career as a barber, and his experiences briefly attending Florida A&M College (now Florida A&M University).







Keywords: [African American History; Leon County, Florida; Ledo Road; U.S. Military Veterans; Lincoln High School; Tallahassee Bus Boycott; Civil Rights Movement]



AAHP 541

Interviewee: Eddie Barrington

Interviewer: Mariana Castro, Christian Tirado, and Sam Dixie Date: December 1, 2017



	C:	All right, Hi everyone, my name is Mariana Castro, and I’m here today with— T:	Christian Tirado.

	C:	And we are at the Miracle Hill Nursing Home with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. It is December 1st, 4:00 p.m. and we’re going to be interviewing Mr. Eddie Barrington. Mr. Eddie, if you want to start telling us—you were about to tell us about your father.

	B:	Well, my father was a wonderful man. So was my mother, a wonderful lady. And we had a little two-horse farm where we raised all of our foods—most all of our foods. Basic, like corn, sweet potatoes, okra, beans, grapes, peaches, pears, plums. All of that, we had all of that for ourselves. And we never went out and done public work for nobody out there. And when we grew up, like young men, rather than to go to somebody to get a job for fifty cent a day, we’d take our axe and our saw and go to the woods and cut pulpwood and crossties, and we done pretty good with that. See, and we’d always do that after what we call “laying-by day.” The farm product, when we got it the last time, processed it. And waiting ‘til the sun finished working with it by drying it out, making it ready to be gathered and putting it into the cribs in the barns. We grew lots of chicken and hogs, and a few cows, and had a yard full of dogs. [Laughter] Hunting dogs that used to like to hunt—like, squirrels, rabbits, or possums, coons! All of that.

	C:	And did you want to ask any questions?



	D:	I was just going to get. You were born in Lloyd? B:	Mmhm.





	D:	Lloyd, Florida?



	C:	Lloyd, Florida?



	B:	I say Lloyd, Florida, but where I was born was about three miles from Lloyd. Southeast. You call the place where I was born the “Piney Woods.” It was so many pine trees, beautiful pine trees; and the turpentine. People used to chip the trees so the tar would come out, and that’s where they made turpentine from.

	C:	And could you tell us about your beginning years in primary education?



	B:	Not much of chance. The first time I went to schools for education was—they started off in your ABCs. And you couldn’t go to school until you were six years old. And you didn’t get permission from the county to teach but three months a year. And the teacher that was teaching us only had achieved a seventh or eighth grade education. And she could teach us from what we call the primer, the first grade, the second grade, the third grade. But we had to learn everything in that. When you got to the point, she say, “You got to know every character that is in this book. You got to be able to repeat and recite it with the teachers.”

	C:	Did you grow up with any siblings? B:	Huh?

	C:	Any siblings?



	D:	Brothers, sisters?



	B:	Brothers, sisters. I was fortunate to have five brothers and one sister. My mother never learned to read and write. My dad did a bit, and my dad was a handyman. He could do almost anything, like build wagons for the farmers, and plows and whatnot.





	C:	And you said that you could only go for three months? B:	Only three.

	C:	Three months. So, how old were you when you finished? B:	Six.

	C:	Six.



	B:	So, I had to learn the ABCs, be able to recognize every letter in the alphabet. Then we turned to the tables, mathematics side. We had to learn to recite the mathematics—arithmetic, we called it. From one to twelve without making a mistake. And from twelve back to one, without making a mistake. If you did, you’d get a whack! [Laughter]

	C:	And what about after? What did you do after your teenage years? B:	Hmm?

	C:	What about after school and your teenage years? Could you tell us a little about that?

	B:	We would go home and scramble around, and find the eggs that the chicken had stepped outside of the yard and created a nest. We’d find the eggs, then we’d get the wood and the water and whatnot that we was going to use for the rest of the day. Momma fed dinner, and we could have dinner. So, we had a busy schedule. And as we grew older, my oldest brother left home. And that was like having a funeral, almost. Then the next one. And the next one, I was next to that next one. I was the fourth child, and there were three younger than me: James, Wilbur and Williams, younger than me. Jesse Whitfield. Rosebud was the second child. She was the only girl. And then Eddie Barrington. So we had a very good country





experience. After I was about fourteen years old, I start kind of getting in trouble with a girl. And I left home, went to Orlando.

	C:	Orlando, Florida.



	B:	Stayed with my Aunties Knowles. Most of the family had moved to Orlando. But right now I’m not as sharp as I should be, because my restless nights. I stayed in Orlando for a while, moved over to Sanford. Then that little place out across St. John’s River called Osteen, in Volusia County. I went to Deland, which is the county seat of Volusia, and a lady asked me, say, “Would you like to go to school?” I say, “Yes, I would.” She said, “Well, come here, sign up. I’m going send you to Florida A&M Univer—no, Florida A&M College, at that time—in Tallahassee.” I said, “Well, that’s almost back home!” So they send me there.

And I volunteered to be a tailor, so I studied tailoring.



	C:	How old were you at that time?



	B:	At that time, I was about seventeen. Seventeen. We couldn’t stay but so long, in the NYE [inaudible 10:21]. So, I had to leave the NYE, and go back to Lloyd next to the pine woods, and started my pulpwood business [10:37] all over again. My two brothers younger than me, James and Wilbur, we would cut us a boxcar-load of pulpwood a day. [Laughter] That was twenty-five dollars apiece. And there were very few people would make that kind of money at that time, but we was just skillful with a saw and a axe. And we done that. And so, my brother James and my first cousin Leroy signed up to go the CCC camp. When they signed to go to CCC camp, we didn’t have automobiles then. And somebody would have automobiles, we’d hire them to take us to town. So, he hired a guy named Guy





Odom. And he drove us over to Monticello. My brother and my first cousin went in, and they signed and everything. And I sat on outside because I wasn’t involved in that. So a lady came to the door and say, “Have you signed up?” Say, “No.” She say, “Well, come on in here and sign up.” I went in and signed up.

They put us on the bus—on a truck, and drove us straight to a natural springs. There was a CCC camp there. They took me in the CCC camp, and my brother and my first cousin back home. [Laughter] Yeah, I stayed in the CCC camp one year. And while I was in the CCC camp—I had started cutting hair around the house. Doing my brother’s hair and my cousins’, and people in the community that got used to my cutting. So, I done it in the CCC camp. They was paying me eight dollars a month, and sending twenty-two dollars a month home to my parents from the CCC camp. So, I stayed the CCC camp twelve months. They just charged me. The education advisor Mr. MacLane and Spearman was the education advisors. They met with Dr. Foot, and Dr. Foot had a barber shop, had a two-chair barbershop. And they said, “Dr. Foot, we going to discharge this man from CCC camp, and want him to have a job. He’s very skillful, so he even cut our hair better than the barbers here in town.” He said, “We was wondering if you would like to hire him, Dr. Foot.” Dr. Foot say, “Yeah.” So I start cutting hair, professionally. Right out of the CCC camp. Never been in the classroom of a barber’s college in my life. And I done it for sixty-three years. And I think I done pretty good at it.

	C:	[Laughter] And do you want to tell us how you got involved in the Civil Rights Movement? Or, what initiated that?





	B:	Well, I was in the barbershop, and everybody practically knew me on Florida A&M campus. Florida A&M students was involved. And all that day, I heard them talking about what had happened on the bus. So they say, “We calling a mass meeting tonight at Bethel Baptist church.” Well, I had a few customers I had to finish up, and I was a few minutes late getting there. Dean Thomas—do you remember Dean Thomas?

	D:	Mmhm.



	B:	Dean Thomas and I walked in the church house together. By this time, a young man from Miami, Odell Jones, say they had nominated all the officers, which was, what? Nine of us, I believe. President, vice president, treasurer, whatnot, secretary. Dr. Higgin C. Williams was the secretary. And Odell say, “I nominate Brother Eddie Barrington to be the assistant secretary”—that was the last officer that could be elected. So everybody just went to pieces. I say—talking to myself—“Now, what do I know about being a doggone secretary?” And something say, “Go ahead on, accept it. The people like you.” And Reverend Steele say, “Brother Barrington, will you accept that?” I said, “Yes.” Now, the next thing, the next night, we was supposed to have another mass meeting. Dr. Williams said, “Barrington, we’d like for you to go fishing together. Go all the way to Ocala, about. [Laughter] Just to go fishing. So he say, “I want you to sing a solo.” “Sing a solo?” He said, “I heard you sing; you can sing. Sing a solo! I don’t care what you sing.” So all day I thought about. what could I sing for this? And Roy Hamilton was very popular with, “You’ll Never Walk Alone.” Something say, That’s what you doing. You got to walk! This is the right song for the right time.” I





done “You’ll Never Walk Alone,” and became a celebrity. Everybody just shouted and clapped. Now, the next day, my duty was to be in charge of collection. So I came to the table and I made a statement about, “Everybody need to come and lay something on the table.” And they did. About three thousand ten dollars that night. And from then on, I had a role in the Inter-Civic Council. And when we got ready to go to Washington to hear Martin Luther King’s speech, I was in charge of that bus that picked up the forty-seven, I believe, of us who went to Washington to this meeting. We came back, we had more mass meetings. We had the city’ five council commissioners. They say to us, “Well, we got a deal we want to pull with you all. What we’ll do, we will ask you to go back on the bus and ride the bus. And when they make a decision in Montgomery, we will abide by that decision.” And all the other officers made a statement, said, “That sound pretty good to me.” Well, I had to come in and make my little speech, too. So I said, “Commissioners, due to respect all of you, we will not accept word of mouth. If you go back to your office, sit down, and write a letter, and sign it ,and mail it to us, then we might go back on the bus.” They say, “We can’t do that.” I said, “Well, goodbye.” [Laughter] And so, we went on to be very successful with our bus protest. We had some rough dealing, know that. Charged twenty-two of us for operating cars for hire on Tallahassee streets. That wouldn’t stick, our lawyers wouldn’t let that stick. Then a little later on, they had the school integration. Reverend Steele put his children down to be first to go into the integrated school. Well, I done the same thing. I had set a twin boys and one girl





that were old enough. I volunteered my children, but my wife got excited and she talk with—. I turned to Wilson—you remember Charlie Wilson from Pensacola?

	D:	Mmhm, right. Matter of fact, my mother put my name up too, on that; also Harold Knowles, and there was another kid—Deflowers. So, I remember that.

	B:	They didn’t want to do that, so we went on with the bus protest. And the officers, after the meeting, discussed what’s next to be done. What is it what we want do? So they say, “What we going to do?” We had three Black filling stations: Shaver’s, Hatley, and Mr. Cartlion—I can’t think of his name right now. Little short fellow, like that.

	D:	Holmes?



	B:	No, not Holmes, huh? D:	Thomas?

	B:	No, he was—this guy’s a plumber. D:	Okay.

B:  I don’t know why I can’t think of it. So, we went on with it until it’s time for the school integration. Judge Caldwell was the, supposed to be—what’s he? He wasn’t the city judge, he’s a—

D:   Circuit?



	B:	Huh? Circuit Judge! And he called a meeting at the office, and told the city attorney to call your witness. Now, I had been excused from the case. They say they wouldn’t bother me, because Attorney Wilson say, “Your name has been left out. We took you off of there.” And so, he said, “I would like—I know,” first time I was called by “mister,” by a White man in Tallahassee. He say, “I would like to





call Mr. Eddie Barrington to the stand.” Judge Caldwell say, “No, he doesn’t have to come to the stand. He’s not involved now.” He say, “Well Judge, I just want to ask him a simple question. If he agree, could he answer it for me?” I say, “I believe I could answer any question you ask me.” And he say, “Well, take the stand.” I took the stand. “Now, Mr. Barrington, here’s what I want to ask you: your home is closer to Lincoln High than there is to Leon High. You would waste money if you take Leon High, and the school is closer.” So he said, “Don’t you think that would make a good decision?” I say, “Attorney, what I want to say to you is: you all said so—I didn’t—that Leon High is the best high school.” I say, “And my precious children, I want to have the best for my precious children.

That’s why I’m going to say go to Leon High.” He say, “That’s all.” Judge Caldwell say, “Recess.” Nobody had testified or nothing. Attorney Motley and Attorney Wilson, and—what did the brown skinned guy used to—? He was Florida A&M graduate.

	D:	I can’t remember.



	B:	I can’t think of his name, but he stammered a lot, you know, when he talked. But he’s sharp. So they say—we go in, there Mr. Bartley and Wilson called a meeting, and when Judge Caldwell say, “Court, assume position. And what you got to say for yourself, attorney?” Attorney say, “Nothing.” Judge Caldwell say, “The court is all over. Inter-Civic Council wins.” That’s when we started integrating schools in Tallahassee.

	C:	You mentioned that you went to D.C. for Mr. King’s speech. B:	Hmm?





	C:	You mentioned you went to D.C for Mr. King’s speech. D:	Washington, D.C.

	C:	Washington D.C.? Did you want to talk about that experience?



	B:	Well, that was a long bus ride, for—I believe it was forty seven of us. And I was in charge of that. And we went to Washington. We didn’t get rooms and things for us, because we rolled on the bus, and when the meeting was over, we could board the bus and come back home. So, we went to Abraham Lincoln’s monument. And there were four P51’s that was ordered to fly over where we was, so the noise would—the peoples who was speaking, you couldn’t hear them. And they would come over and sound like they were ramping up the motors or something to make noise. And what that Black Senate Representative? Adam Clayton Powell, wasn’t it? Adam Clayton Powell called up, who was it, I think of Bilbo sometime, but it wasn’t Bilbo, it was one of those tough, racist representatives. He told them, “Get those damn planes out of the air, and don’t let them come back over here no more. How impolite can you be?” And Adam Clayton Powell wouldn’t bite his tongue, he usually come out and say what he want to say. And so that cut that off, and Martin Luther King made this great speech.

	D:	I just want to add Adam Clayton Powell, not only was he a representative, and he



would speak his mind, but he was also a preacher! [Laughter]



	B:	Mmhm! What happened to him? He left and went to the same island— D:	Bimini.

	B:	That used to work to from Cuba. I can’t remember that island.





	T:	—That island that he went to a lot was called Bimini. B:	Bimini!

	C:	Bimini.



	B:	Of course, he had piled up quite a nice sum of money. And Batista was chased out of Cuba by Castro, and he went to Bimini. So, we was successful in winning our case on the bus. The city commission say—well, we say, “Hire some Black drivers.” “We can’t find no Black drivers who know how to drive the bus.” I say, “Commissioners, I am a five-year-old engineer. I started the highway. I am the sergeant that gave the first order to Ledo Road.” You can look it up on here, on your—. They didn’t say nothing about me, because then of course, General Stilwell did not like Black people. [Laughter] He thought less than human beings. Mean general, and so I gave—Clifford Davis was the only D7 operator we had. We didn’t have but one. My company was Company C, with the 823rd Aviation Engineers. And since we had a captain, Captain Calhoun, he was always anxious to be the first to go into things. Looking for a big name, and he’s a good guy. We would take the first job that come up in the battalion. He ordered us to get started. I can’t remember what date that was, but it was kind of late in the year. Like about this time of year. That same day, we go from zero mileage to about fifteen miles ahead from pushing back the bamboo, and the trees, and the cobras. [Laughter] And everything that we ran into. When I left, the year I left India, we had cleared up about fifty miles of impossible road that the rest of the nation say we couldn’t be able to build right through the Himalayas mountains. If





you know anything about the Himalayas, the largest mountain range in the world—with the tallest, Mount Everest.

	C:	Mmhm.



	B:	You could see it from almost anywhere, it’s so big and tall. Five and three-quarter miles high. And the weather, monsoon season was terrible. I had malaria eleven times.

	C:	Wow.



	B:	Ten times overseas, and one time after I got back. I was in Oklahoma City.



Rogersville, Oklahoma.



	C:	And after the integration of schools, how was racism like at that time after integration? How were your kids in school? What was their experience, if they shared it with you?

	B:	Well, it came Vietnam. I didn’t like the idea of Vietnam, and I told my wife and the rest of them, “I don’t want my children to go to no Vietnam, because I know that’s terrible area over there.” I tell you I had malaria eleven times. Well, that was linked with the monsoon season. And so, that’s what I said. I wasn’t going to let them go. Then they opened the junior college here. I registered them in the junior college, and they got such a rotten deal from—because they had about 98.9 White instructors, and they kind of done the Black boys and girls up with the grade level. So, my boys was scheduled to go to the Army, and I say, “No.” So they got smart and went, found out that they could go to the Navy. My twins, and then my uncle’s twins, all four Barringtons signed up for the Navy. And they put all four of them in the Navy. When my oldest son came out before his twin





brother and his other first cousins, he say, “I don’t want to stay no longer,” because he was tired of foolishness in the Navy. So, he don’t go. I say, “Well, I want you to sign up and go on to A&M.” And I had bought out a flower business at that time. Did you know that?

	D:	Mmhm.



	B:	I had bought a florist. C:	Mmhm.

	B:	I say, “You can help me around the florist, and go on to A&M.” He say, “But Daddy, they got my records so messed up. How could I do from the junior college?” I said, “I’ll tell you what you do: forget the junior college. Register as your high school from Lincoln. Start from there.” I say, “What you know already, what you learned in the junior college, they can’t take that from you. You know it. So, just register at Lincoln.” And he did that. He and his brother, when he came out a year later. This is what you put on the—

	C:	Yeah, that’s the mic. [Laughter]



	B:	So he got his degree. Now they having a show tonight, in Metropolitan Cathedral of Truth. Just off—you know Avanna?

	C:	Mm-mm.



	B:	You know Metropolitan Cathedral of Truth on Rich Bay. D:	Mmhm.

	B:	Yeah they having a show tonight at the church there. So, I guess that about all I can remember with that, right?

	C:	[Laughter] And—





	B:	Oh yeah, I had a opportunity to go the Taj Mahal. You heard of that? C:	Yeah.

	B:	One of the seven wonders of the world. And you had to take off your shoes and put on velvet slippers, so when you walk over the floor it wouldn’t make a noise. Because just like that [taps] and you could hear it all over the place. The Maharaja and his wife was mounted, and they look just as you and I look right now: alive. And that Taj Mahal was built with precious stones, special woods.

Ain’t nothing been like it. I heard the President say he was going build a building to surpass that. [Laughter] That’s what Donald Trump say.

	C:	He says a lot of things. [Laughter]



	B:	Another experience I had, I met Mother Theresa. I don’t know if any of you ever heard of her.

	D:	Yeah.



	C:	Yeah, I’ve heard.



	B:	I met her in Calcutta. Calcutta, India. And I had a chance to meet and shake hands with Mahatma Gandhi, the only living skeleton that I ever seen in my life. He didn’t have one drop of flesh—I mean fat—under his skin, was right up to the bone. He would fast for forty days at a time, then he would drink one glass of goat milk a day.

	C:	Wow. How did you meet him? B:	How did I do what?

	C:	How did you meet him?





	B:	He came to talk with us about nonviolence. That’s the first time I ever heard of “nonviolence.” I’m armed now with a sub-machine gun that fires 750 times per minute, and he was telling us, “If a British strike you, don’t strike him back. His blood too filthy to stain your hands with. We remain nonviolent.” And the British done the Indians pretty bad. They went in and killed quite a few of them, you know, at the time. But Mahatma Gandhi stood on his ground. Now, when Martin Luther King start talking about nonviolence; now, all of this that I had met with Mahatma Gandhi, I say, “That’s the first time I had ever heard of nonviolence!” [Laughter] And Reverend King was talk about nonviolence, not knowing that he had been to India and—

	D:	Yeah, he studied Gandhi. B:	Yeah. Teah.

D:  Let me ask a question, going back to the bus boycott: now, if I remember—well, I don’t remember, but remembering because I was like—in [19]56, I was only three years old. But from what I read, that boycott lasted, what, about seven months?

B:   Yeah, something like that.



	D:	Okay, let me ask you: they found out that they needed the money. It hurt them in the pocketbook, all the Black people not taking the bus to work. But I want to know—because a lot of people didn’t have automobiles. How did the people get back and forth to work?

	B:	Yeah, now that’s the part I missed. We organized and asked volunteers, who had cars. And I told you about the four filling stations, but I didn’t complete it. We’d take up collection. The city start interfering and say that we were stealing the





people’s money—they lied on us and all that kind of stuff. They would—since we was right here Tallahassee, we would bank with Lewis State Bank.

	D:	Right.



	B:	And we found out that they were letting too much information out. We moved our money to Atlanta, to the Black bank. And then we had the record in the office, and anybody who wanted to find out things could come and look at the record.

What we would do is to let the guys go by the filling station and fill their tanks, and transport, carry, and bring the citizens who was working. We would pay it out in faith.

	D:	Oh, okay.



	C:	How many volunteers did you have—or, around? B:	How many volunteers?

	C:	Yeah.



	D:	Volunteer drive.



	B:	I couldn’t count them. [Laughter] I never counted them! Almost everybody who had a car would do it. We had a few people that wouldn’t do it.

	C:	That wouldn’t?



	B:	Hm?



	C:	You had a few people that wouldn’t do it?



	B:	No, they wouldn’t do it. They was afraid to do it.



	C:	Was there any collaboration of the White folks in the area who contributed with cars as volunteers?





	B:	We had a few Whites that was along with us. Lewis, one of the Lewises; Sheber



Lewis.



	D:	Mmhm.



	B:	Yeah, he was the best friend we had in the banking business. The Lewises owned the bank. And I understand there was a falling out in the Lewis family about him supporting the bus protest. But we put the bus out of business, because when they roll up and down the street, they might have one customer. And Carl, the bus owner, told the city commission, “We going have to go back, we going have to integrate. Because I can’t stand it no longer.” And the city of Tallahassee took over the bus from him.

	C:	And integrated the buses?



	B:	They say this, “We can’t find no Blacks to drive the bus.” Uh-huh. I say, “Commissioners, you looking at a five-year-old engineer: one year engineering in CCC camp, and four years of engineering in the United States Armed Forces.” I say, “You ain’t got nothing I can’t drive. I can operate anything you have. You want to try it?” They shut up. [Laughter] They shut up. The next thing you know, we had bus drivers trying to get to—and we weren’t too fast to rush back to it because they hired bus drivers.

	C:	Is there any other organizing that you do—following the integration of the buses and the school—is there anything else that you took part of after?

B:  Well, we let the lawyers took care most of the problems then. White ladies didn’t know how to clean their own house; didn’t know how to cook their own food and take care their own babies. When the bus protest came about, that left the





working White who was making about twenty-five dollars a week, and the Blacks who was cleaning their house was making about twelve or fifteen dollars a week; that hit them in the face also. People so glad to get their maids back so they could go and make their jobs, the county, the city and the state. So, it had a wide, wide effect. Tallahassee haven’t been the same since, as you can see. Mayor Marks. Tallahassee done the best piece of growing in the history. And now, Mayor Gillum. Marks been eight years, and Gillum is on his way to eight, I think. Haven’t he served four already?

	D:	I think so.



	B:	Uh-huh. But now you can feel all right, because we knows we got the children playing together, and going swimming together, and eating, and having a big time together.

	D:	That was one of the things I remember. I remember when we were trying to integrate the swimming pools.

	B:	Mmhm.



	D:	Out at Myer’s Park. We used to go out there a lot with kids my age at the time—I guess I was about seven, eight; in there. And then there would be students of FAMU campus that would go with us.

	B:	Mmhm.



	D:	You know, make sure nothing would happen to the little kids. But it took a while, but they finally did integrate the pools and everything, theatres.

	B:	I noticed in this hospital now. Judge Rudd’s wife is in this hospital, next room to me—to where I—. [Laughter]





	T:	Now, she [inaudible 51:03].



	B:	[Laughter] And there was no prejudiced-er person on earth than Judge Rudd. T:	Now, that’s something; these White peoples ended up here!

	C:	Mmhm.



	T:	And he [inaudible 00:51:18] C:	[Laughter]

	B:	After I was in the flower business, Judge Rudd and his wife set up a wholesale flower system. Now, he wanted my business because they said I was second best florist in town. Judge Rudd wanted that business, you know. He invited me out to his house, out in Miccosukee where his house. He had a fish pond in his backyard. He say, “You can fish in my pond.” I wouldn’t accept none of it. I wouldn’t even eat no meals at his house. [Laughter] But I went to his house to see what he had to say. And he wanted that business bad. I say, “Now, here’s a man that hated the Black man with a passion. And now I’m doing business that could make him feel good, if I purchase all my flowers and things from him.” I say no; I wasn’t going to do any of it. So, I see her every day now. I think she say, “I thought I know you.” I didn’t say much to her. [Laughter] When you start talking about this thing, I doubt if you could ever talk everything just how it happened.

Because it been a pretty good while.



	C:	Yeah, a lot of times people, as you start talking you start remembering other things. So is there, like, any other story that you might not even think it’s important—are important—as we try to go for those stories? Do you have anything else you’d like to share?





	B:	And the people who lived in Tallahassee were so co-opted. We had one or two Blacks that was crazy enough to want to continue to—a little short preacher. He used to live in Alberta Drive.

	D:	Mmhm.



	B:	But he said he wasn’t going to stop riding the bus. But he had to walk from Alberta Drive to the bus line. And we say, “When you see Reverend Wilson”—I think that was his name—“when you see him walking, let him walk. Do not pick him up. Because he say he wasn’t ‘going to make those White people angry with me.’” [Laughter] Hey, boy. How can you help it? [Laughter]

	D:	There is always going to be a few that’s going to go against the majority. There’s always going to be some dissension.

	B:	You know, Dr. Will Gore didn’t had no appetite for integrating neither. D:	Now, Dr. Gore he’s talking about, he was the president of FAMU.

	C:	Oh, at the time?



	D:	Yeah, Dr. Gore did not want any of his faculty or— C:	Involved in the plot—

	B:	Oh, all the time that this was going on, Dr. Gore had never had a meeting with his students and talked about it in Lee Auditorium or anything. He didn’t talk about it. He just went along with it for a long time.

	C:	But the students at FAMU were involved? D:	Yeah, students took part in spite of it.

	C:	And faculty and staff, you said, that they were told not to, but did they end up participating?





	D:	It wasn’t many faculty at FAMU that participated. The people that I remember— B:	C.U. Smith, Ms. Nan Dexter, L. Youngwise and his wife and sister.

	D:	Daisy Young, she worked there. B:	Daisy Young.

	D:	Dr. Hudson.



	B:	Dr. Hudson was number one



	D:	Mmhm. He done went on.



	B:	Yes, sir. Yes, sir. And Mitch Rollin, you remember him? D:	Mmhm.

	B:	The Reverend Mitch Rollin? He was, he was— D:	Do you remember Turney Williams?

	B:	Yeah.



	D:	Wore the cowboy hat? B:	Uh-huh.

	D:	He would always participate. B:	Uh-huh.

	D:	This man, everywhere you saw him, he had a—.



	B:	You didn’t have a meeting with C.U. Smith worked there? A lot of them wouldn’t say anything, but a lot of them worked. I mean, they would put out the work, too. Another thing I done, too, are organize the little refreshment stand when we meet. I had cold drinks and different things, and we took in quite a bit of money like that. We had a picnic at Jake Gaither Park, and Dr. Williams and I furnished the bream because we used to go fishing and catch a lot of bream. And we





would get three or four thousand dollars that day, because we sold those fish sandwiches for five dollars apiece. And they all sold, and still wanted more. [Laughter] So, it was a rough road to travel, but we traveled it. Mr. Connelly was a steady guy, too.

	D:	Mmhm.



	B:	Now, Mr. Weber. You know Mr. Weber, don’t you?



	D:	That name sound familiar; I can’t quite remember and put a face to it. B:	He live right across the street from me on Coleman Street.

	D:	Oh, okay.



	B:	And what was Weber in? But anyway, he wasn’t down with it. And the girls from Quincy, Drew. She married Drew, who was a law student at that time. And he worked like mad, too, with that Inter-Civic Council. Did we mention Ms.

Mandexter?



	D:	No.



	B:	Oh, she was a pearl. She was there every time. C:	[Laughter] Who was that? Who was Ms.—

	B:	Ms. Mandexter. Yeah, she was there every time. She didn’t say too much, but she had never been married, lived alone. She loved her dogs. [Laughter]

	D:	I doubt if we could get a good boycott of anything today, because people are so scattered—

	B:	Mmhm.





	D:	And no, I’m not going to give up this, and I’m not going to give up that. People stuck together. You know, they stuck together, and they made the powers that be feel it in the pocketbook.

	B:	Mmhm.



	D:	And the people today really don’t understand they got much more power today because they got much more money, but they won’t use it as a weapon or a tool to make—

	B:	But I wonder if a lot of those people who made such a fuss over integrating—and they supposed to be highly-educated people, like George Wallace, and some of those. How in the world could they go through school, and obtain these degrees and everything, and then have such a mind as they have? It don’t seem like to me that—

	D:	They still got Roy Moore, you got Jeff Sessions. So, they still out there. B:	Mmhm.

	D:	You know, I used to think—I’d say, “Okay, all this stuff is going to die out. You know, people die out. They going—”

	B:	No, it ain’t going die out. you have to kill it out! [Laughter]



	D:	Actually, they still teaching kids. You know they’re teaching them, because nobody’s born like that.

	C:	Mmhm.



	D:	Nobody’s born hating people. B:	Now I get a little—

	D:	Can you talk about—





	B:	The Blacks in this country—now listen to this good. The Blacks in this country made this country so prosperous. When we were shanghaied, or kidnapped from Africa to come to this place—wasn’t no United States at that time—to the Indian country, and fight them, and run them off of their own property. And the Africans cleared up the jungles and the forests. They turned them into big plantations that made billions for the White. And for a couple hundred years, they done this.

When they start talking about uniting, and they came up with these states and everything? Then, here come the discrimination. A Black can’t go here, and a Black can’t do this; a Black can’t do that. All right, they came up with Joe Lewis. First, they came up with Jack Johnson before him. And that don’t—it’s singing and entertaining. We had musicians that taught Artie Shaw, Billie Goodman, the Dorsey Brothers; and taught them how to play jazz before they could learn how to play jazz, they didn’t—knew how to play, well, just ordinary, what you may say, hillbilly music. We produced the crops, gathered the crops. It was there to eat.

Some of the first line crop. We had to take the second. The second that wasn’t fit for market, hardly. Our people had to use that. I don’t know how in the world we made it, but we made it. We made it. We witnessed such tragedies down round by Orlando when they burned Harry—what that, Harry T Moore’s house they bombed?

	D:	Mmhm.



	B:	Ku Klux Klans.



	C:	They bombed whose house? B:	Yeah, Harry T. Moore





	C:	And you were in Tallahassee at the time?



	B:	Mmhm. Yeah, in fact, I came out the Army, I was supposed to go to Atlantic City and take a job at a barber college there. The president of that barber’s college saw me cut some hair, and he say he wanted me to come back and just teach hair cutting at that time. He say, “I’ll pay you eighty-five dollars a week, and you keep the money you make from cutting hair.” And I agreed to do that. But I came home; after I was discharged from Montgomery, Alabama, I flew to Tampa, caught a bus, and come back to Tallahassee. Ran into Dr. Foote and he said, “The barber shop is closed.” Robertson was the barber, but he stopped teaching barber. He say, “I’d like for you to take it over. You just go in there and spend a week or two until you build up some trade. Then we’ll talk about how to do it, you know, what to do.” I done that, and I never left Tallahassee. [Laughter]

	C:	Do you have any other questions? D:	No, no.

	C:	Do you have anything else you’d like to add?



	B:	I guess so, but I can’t think of it right now. [Laughter]



	C:	[Laughter] Do we have a Deed of Gift? Awesome, cool. We will be sending you a copy of this, so you’ll have that preserved. Okay? And if there’s anything you want to change, that you hear and you don’t want it there—

	B:	Don’t forget that Ledo Road. C:	Don’t forget that what?

	B:	Don’t forget that Ledo Road. The greatest wartime highway that was ever built.



Started from Ledo, India—





	C:	Ledo, India.



	B:	Into China, through the Himalaya Mountains. Impossible—so said they, five other nations. “You won’t be able to build no road through there. The Himalayas just too great.” And they very close to it, too. [Laughter]

	D:	Was it mostly Black troops that built that road?



	B:	To begin with, it was Black troops. We were one battalion. We were supposed to maintain air bases, and build an airbase—a strip for people to land on. And we got to Karatta, India at that time. It’s Pakistan now. And we moved out to a place, they called the—what that? The desert. As far as your eyes could see, you could see some little bushes and things over there. The biggest, what you may say, the biggest lizards you ever heard being alive! [Laughter] And they just live there on the ground. And when you got the wigworm, he was on his way to his den, he’d frighten you to death! [Laughter]

	D:	Because he was going to go!



	B:	Puffing and blowing! Yeah, the Malil! That’s Malil Desert, the name of that place. That’s what we heard every night, all night; you would hear the caravan moving from, they say Iran into India, and to Pakistan. They were bringing fruits and nuts, and stuff like that, with camels and ox carts. And you never would see the end of the thing, you’d just get tired of looking and go on and go back to your camp. And Duke Ellington wrote a number that they used to chant: “The Caravan.” [Sings the tune] I heard him playing that, and I say, “You know, I heard that somewhere!” Then they announced that it was “The Caravan,” the name the song. If you have a cell phone, you could pull it up on that. Yeah.





	C:	Pull it up.



	D:	Google it here.



	B:	Yeah, a heap of other experiences I ain’t going to attempt to tell nobody about. [Laughter] I was lucky enough never to have to kill anybody. I never wanted to. I was ready, but I didn’t want to kill nobody.

	C:	Well, thank you so much for your stories. And you’ve definitely had a very full life that you’ve lived, and thank you for sharing it with us.

	D:	Thank you. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Charity Kelly, September 23, 2019 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, May 8, 2020

	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, May 22, 2020