AAHP 017B, Reaves, Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 017B Laura Scott Reaves African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on May 14, 2010 1 hour, 4 minutes | 38 pages



Abstract: In this follow-up to a previous interview, Laura Scott Reaves reflects on her experiences teaching at Boyd High School in Foley, Taylor County. She also relates different experiences with integration of schools in the county. A considerable portion of the exchange includes discussion of documents that the interview participants are examining. It also includes some planning for future events such as the interviews with Jerkins High School alumni that Marna Weston later led.



Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School; Education; Segregation]





















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 017B

Interviewee: Laura Scott Reaves [Juanita Scott Williams joins] Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date: May 14, 2010



	W:	[Looking through photographs] So let’s see… Jerkins High School, Perry, Florida. R:	I was at Jerkins then.

	W:	Oh, and I will have your picture that you loaned me when I come back the next time. Our people are still using it for the cover of the jacket that we putting together. That’s why I didn’t bring it this time. But I have not lost it.

	R:	Now this, right here, didn’t come from the school. This came from somebody I decided to write to. And studied the Bible a little bit. But you know, a lot of that stuff is leaving me and I just pray all the time, “Lord, don’t let me forget it.” Now, that’s the way that was. And this came from when they starting building that correctional institute here, this one. I had retired.

	W:	You went out and spoke with the people at the jail? R:	What?

	W:	You go out and speak with people in the jails?



	R:	Well, I used to when my husband was living. We went a lot of places. We’d go all up in Tennessee, you know, different places. I did a lot of working around, but but any more, I don’t have nobody to take me. That picture when I am so young. [Laughing]

	W:	That is a very pretty picture. R:	That don’t look like me now.

	W:	Well, let’s see. It looks like you. R:	It look like me?

	W:	Yes, ma’am.





	R:	It does favor me a little bit.



	W:	[Inaudible at 1:46] if I keep my shadow off it.



	R:	Mr. Warner came in here from, he finished at Bethune-Cookman, but his home is in Atlanta. You want to lay something on top of that?

	W:	Oh, no, I’m good, Ma’am.



	R:	You should be do it like that.



	W:	Oh, that is good, to catch the corner. See, it’s the simple things; that make common sense. That’s why I didn’t figure it out. So you knew all of these people, they were all your teachers?

	R:	Yeah, I was working with them. I was one of the teachers at that time. And for some reason, they decided to honor me by putting it on that book.

	W:	So, the 1960 yearbook was dedicated to you?



	R:	Right. Juanita is a member of that fame thing out there, it’s at Taylor County.



She didn’t tell you but I’m telling you. Her name is up on the Hall of Fame.



	W:	Oh, really? So, why was 1960 the year that they dedicated the yearbook to you?



	R:	Because I was teaching out there, then. They had me doing so many things. One of the thing—I was one of the younger, older teachers.

	W:	You were young, but you had been teaching for a while.



R:  And then, another thing that happened too: when Mr. Warner first came there, to that school, we had a lot of boxes. No cabinets. I don’t know why we didn’t have no cabinets, because I was young then, myself. But what we did, he told Mr.

James, the janitor, to burn up all that trash.



	W:	Oh, no.





	R:	And we had a teacher named Essie Mae Henderson. She came to him and said, “Don’t do that. You going be sorry if you do that.” But you know, that man was so young and everything, he let Mr. James burn them pictures up; he burnt up my grades and everybody else grades. He didn’t seem to care.

	W:	He didn’t know.



	R:	No, he didn’t know. But anyway, everybody went away from here and wrote back for their grades—or whatever they wrote back for. He’d come to my room. He would come to Johnnie Belle Moore room or Alberta Wright room, Jessie Belle Bone room, Sarah Roundtree room. We were there and we knew the people. And he just kept us doing a lot of work. I think that year I was Director of the Elementary School, President of the Elementary School Group. I had work to do. They give me so much work to do! And then, something else happened to me, too. You would wonder ‘what in the world?’ One day, after I worked three or four years at Jerkins, the principal came to me and said, “The superintendent said for you come down to the office this afternoon.” And I went to the superintendent’s office and he said to me, “Laura, don’t feel bad because something has happened to you. For as long as I have been superintendent, it hasn’t happened yet.” Did you know that superintendent of the Boyd’s mill had car-loaded them people at the Boyd’s—I had been principal out there—and another carload trailing them, come up here and went in that superintendent’s office and told them Jerkins had taken their teacher. And the superintendent just couldn’t get ready for it. He told me, “Yes, you got to go back to Boyd.” So, I went back to Boyd to be the principal, right off. Way down that road, five miles. Had to





get my way down there, the best I could. Well, what happened later on, the superintendent said, “Now, don’t worry. I’ve got it all fixed for you.” And she said, “Mr. Lowry said, if anybody going fight for somebody like that, they need a better salary.” Did you know I got the same thing the principal in Jerkins did?

	W:	Really?



R:  That’s right. And he had the school bus that picked the children at Foley—out there where the mill area—and brought them to Perry, he had that the bus to keep on through to Boyd.

	W:	Okay, when you talk about the mill, well, now I know, it is off toward Foley. R:	Foley just, yeah, out this way.

	W:	Okay, yeah. That is the way I came into town. R:	Yeah, you saw that mill.

	W:	Okay, yeah, I wasn’t thinking about it that way. Rode right by it.



	R:	And then they carried me to that school and then in the afternoon, after they picked those children up, they come back by Boyd and brought me home. So, that ended my salary and that ended me having to get my own transportation. I hated to go, but he thought it was something great.

	W:	Well, you want to listen to what your mentors say.



	R:	Yeah, if I had gotten mad and said I didn’t want to go, I‘d have had to go, anyway. Or be fired.

	W:	We just taking some pictures while I was waiting for you.Okay, so you all have had some reunions and put some things together.





	JW:	Yeah, we have had a whole bunch of stuff. And this is when I was President of Retired Educators.

	W:	Well, your sister told me that you were in the Hall of Fame, which we hadn’t talked about.

	JW:	Yep.



	W:	Well, this summer I am working with Lincoln High School in Gainesville to try to talk about their history as a Black school before integration and how proud they are of their history. So we’re working on doing twenty-five to fifty interviews of their graduates. Maybe we can come and do Jenkins—pardon me, Jerkins—

	JW:	Jerkins.



	W:	—at some point. Because these are all very important issues. And what happens is that people talk about it a little bit, but they don’t—it’s hard to take the time.

	JW:		We are terrible now. At my church, I am sorry that I did not write the kind of history that should have been written when I was youth director. We used to, like—and she can verify this statement—we used to just beat up everybody. My church children, everybody backed up from us because they knew they were about to get a beating. She can tell you. That’s true. And when we did certificates and whatnot for them, my pastor’s name was called just about every other time. She could verify that. I am sorry I did not write that down and make a record of it so that we can say “Look what we did—this is our history from the youth department.” We didn’t write it. And that’s a mistake that I made, that I still think about.





	W:	It is hard. Sometimes it has to go by before you see the importance. But at the same time, look at all that you have saved. And, you know, that we’re doing this now, so this is all a part of—

	JW:	This is some, probably some Jerkins history.



	W:	Oh, I would very much like to borrow these. In fact, what I will do is I will scan all this stuff and that way we it will be on digital.

	JW:	Look at that, now. I mentioned Pat Rosier to you,



		W:	All right, Our History from Pat Rosier. So she has already written it. “Carved from Madison County, 	 Taylor county was born.” All this is very—

	R:	All these saying that those kids was doing—our children out working in that stuff. JW:	Mmhm. Yep.

	R:	I left a space for you if you wanted to put something on the table. You want to come to this chair?

	JW:	Oh. No, we can share from here.



	W:	OK, and this has got all the names of the major educators and a little biography about all of them, too. So that’s good, then. A Who’s Who. And, let’s see, there was a letter sent by the school board of Taylor County, by the school district. So, that’s good. That can… It’s always good to have legislative history. Because well, you know, you put an advertisement in the Jerkins High Mass Reunion Book.

This is the same book, is it not?



	JW:	That’s the same book. Now, here is another one that Pat worked in, too. This is— okay, here is another history and it is probably the same one. Pat Rosier.

	W:	Well, this is a little bit different because this is a history of Jerkins High School.





	JW:	She is in Washington, DC, right now.



	R:	That’s right. Peggy is with her. Her brother is up there somewhere doing law work.

	W:	So she would probably be a good person to speak with. JW:	Well, I don’t know when she will be here.

	R:	She is so young. She may not know that oldest part, but she probably know the newer part.

	JW:	She was doing her thing.



	W:	Actually, I will be in DC, this time next year for a conference. It’s already scheduled for Memorial Day, next year. So, if we establish some communication this year, maybe I can talk to her in Washington next year.

	R:	I see why you have everybody.



	JW:	This is what we had. Now, this is, that’s my church, there. W:	Church records are important, too.

	JW:	This is our family; this is the Retired Educator’s Day. Chris, that’s my coach, high school coach.

	W:	What team were you on?



	JW:	Oh, not me. That’s my football coach.



	W:	Oh, he was the coach of the football team.



	R:	That was his home, right there. He done passed away. JW:	He dead, now.

	W:	Now, what was his name? JW:	Turner. Samuel K. Turner.





	W:	Samuel K. Turner, football coach. And I guess the team was good. JW:	It was very good. And these are family reunion books.

	W:	Those are also important.



	JW:	Yep, those are. And that was one that slipped in there from church. R:	Juanita, are all these peoples dead?

	JW:	All the Funes?



	R:	You got Georgia, Johnnie, Johnny Pearl, and Dallas.



	W:	It says “in loving memory”. JW:	They dead.

	R:	Oh, my goodness. I didn’t get a chance to see one of these. Did you sell them? JW:	Let me see the back of it; I might have two. And if so, you can have one. Yeah,

you can have one.



	W:	Charlie Crist signed a proclamation for retired educator’s day. He has certainly made things exciting with his switch in parties, hasn’t he?

	JW:	Yes, he has and it seems as though he might have some supporters.



	W:	Well, you know, he has always had support in the Black community because he was one of the governors that looked into the people that got blown up over in Mims, Florida, Harry Moore. He supported looking into that investigation and he has had really reasonable votes on the environment.

	JW:	And he was supportive of that boy that got beat up.



	W:	That’s true. I think that he will do very well. I still hope that Kendrick wins, because I think it would be nice, with his Mom’s history, and, you know… But if





Charlie Crist won, that wouldn’t be such a bad thing. As long as the other one doesn’t win. [Laughter]

	JW:	He seems to be a little fair-minded. I know he still like that, but—.



	W:	Well now, that other gentleman, McCollum, who is the attorney general, I remember that he was the prosecutor against President Clinton in that Monica Lewinski stuff. That’s all I really know about him.

	JW:	I don’t know about Monica Lewinski. W:	That was all silliness.

	JW:	That’s a bunch of foolishness and to keep that dress—I just think that was . . .



	W:	Well, that’s what the woman told her to do—not to clean it, and keep it. But that’s just a distraction—the fact that they spent $60,000,000 looking at all that? I still can’t believe all that. That was money wasted.

	JW:	Money wasted.



	W:	Money wasted. So, these are all the members of your family? JW:	Um-hum.

	W:	Okay. And this is 1989, so, twenty-one years! And this was from 1995. So, you all do regular family reunions.

	JW:	Regular.



	W:	That is good. And so this is . . . JW:	We going to St. Petersberg.

	W:	The eleventh annual was in 2000—well, this is marvelous that you have this much family history. That’s Valentine’s Day, 1988. Well, any of this that you





would let me borrow, I would be happy to take of it and bring it back to you. But I know, also that these are your things so, I understand.

	JW:	[Laughing] If you were to borrow them… Mmm! They are precious to me. W:	Well, they’re priceless.

	JW:	And I don’t have any copies; I just brought it to see if you could use it.



	W:	What I would do is to scan whatever I borrow and bring back. That way you could have it on computer, as well. For you and the rest of the relatives. We’ll scan it and put it on file. I don’t have to take everything; maybe I will take one or two things, and you see how I do with those, and then decide if you want to let me have something else later. [Laughing]

	JW:	Well, what would you want or need to take?



	W:	I am very interested in the history of Taylor county information—this, for example. JW:	I know—[laughing]

	R:	I got a friend over in Gainesville named—



	W:	—and maybe one of these since you have two of these. R:	Maybe one of them.

	JW:	Yeah.



	R:	Edward Demps might if—I don’t know his address. JW:	Edward Demps? I don’t have it either.

	W:	Probably this. And just one of your family documents—maybe this one that goes back to [19]89.

	R:	This is a clipping I cut out the paper. I wanted Juanita to read, but I want you to know about it.





	W:	[Reading] “Obama, the most radical President in U.S. History.” [Laughing] That’s funny.

	R:	He is not seeming to back the older, very old Americans’ idea of religion. Like those presidents that pray.

	W:	Well, he went to the prayer breakfast.



	R:	He still opening Congress with prayer, but a lot of those things he’s avoided. And we want him to be president, but if he going avoid religion, and the thing that supports our moral values, then a lot of people want—I want him to be president right on.

	W:	He goes to church every Sunday, though, doesn’t he? R:	He goes to church somewhere. I don’t know where it is.

	W:	I see him and his wife and the girls going. Being president is a tough thing, though. No matter what he does, they going to find some fault with it.

	JW:	They going to— Everything he does is wrong.



	W:	Yeah. Anything he does, they are going to find some fault with. And that’s any president. He happens to be a president that I agree with and support. But you know, when there is a president I don’t agree with and support, I’ve been critical. And that’s just how people are. They going find something, no matter what you do. You could be perfect, and they will find something. [Laughter]

	R:	Well, I was thinking about Christmas. He didn’t support that. And every Thursday, first Thursday, in May is National Prayer Day. Well, I don’t think he supported that.

	W:	He went to that this year, he spoke at it.





	R:	He supported that?



	W:	He spoke at it. There was some controversy, I know, because there’s some people trying to sue to say that the government should not be involved with the Prayer Breakfast. But he went anyway.

	R:	Well, the other presidents been going.



	W:	Oh yeah, every president’s gone, I think, since they started it. Thirty-something years.

	R:	Yeah, they started—I mean they been praying all the time but Roosevelt came out with it on a national level.

	W:	See, it’s a good example because there a lot of the people that talk about prayer and that stuff. Obama went to it. But they’re not going to give him any credit for that. They still going criticize him on other things.

	R:	Roosevelt had a German bombing and killing all those people over there, and things like that. And Roosevelt just told everybody to pray. Just pray. He called on the nation. And then when things got Pearl Harbor going, there was Truman. Truman called on everybody to pray. And they prayed, but them wars end. Well, then there was Reagan. Reagan went a little further. He put his John Henry on it. He signed it into law. And so they been honored every first Thursday in May, National Prayer Day. And I wanted him to be in it.

	W:	Do you have email?



	JW:	Yes, I got a computer, but I’m not too certain I know how to do email.



	W:	Well, I was just thinking, I knew what you were going to do—write all this stuff down. I was thinking I could take a picture of the covers and just email them to





you, so that way you would know what I had, instead of you having to do all of that writing. But whatever is more comfortable for you.

	JW:	Okay. I’ll tell you what. I’m fixing to ask you to just scan them and mail them back to me. Would that be hard to do?

	W:	Not at all. Or I could scan them and drive them back. JW:	Drive them back?

	W:	Yeah, you’re not that far. You’re only eighty miles from where I live. JW:	You live in Gainesville, don’t you?

	W:	I live in High Springs. So, about twenty-five miles north of Gainesville.



	JW:	Did you know Miss—you didn’t know her because you weren’t even there, then. R:	Chandler?

	JW:	Mrs. Chandler. You didn’t live in High Springs twenty years ago. W:	No, I did not. But what is Ms. Chandler’s first name?

	JW:	Evangeline Chandler. You probably have heard of her. R:	You probably done heard of her.

	W:	I may have, because I just interviewed a ninety-six year old lady. Her name is Susie Mae White. She was the first county psychologist and counselor, and she taught in High Springs for—

	JW:	Forever.



	W:	Yes, for a number of years. Do you know Miss White? She was there for twelve years.

	R:	Miss Chandler was our principal in Mayo.





	W:	Ms. Chandler. Okay. That is the value of these conversations; just from having little conversations—talking to Ms. Baines has now ended up speaking with you. You gather so much wisdom just from talking to people. And while a lot of people talk about Black history within the context of their family, and their fraternity or their sorority, there is not a lot of people putting stuff together.

	R:	Juanita ran into it one time with her daughter. The lady—she asked the lady, when we were going to have some Black history. Her daughter asked that. All right, and the lady say, “Oh, we don’t have any Black history.” She say, “Yes, Ma’am, we have Black history.” And somehow or another she got her to let her know that she could have Black history at least a week. And do you know, she went on to her mother and got that stuff together? And surprised everybody in her classroom.

	W:	You will have all this stuff back either by mail by Saturday or I will drive it back myself.

	JW:	She taught history, she taught Black history for a week in the classroom. . . W:	Your daughter?

	JW:	Un-huh. And Mr. Blankenship told her, “There is nothing to talk about about y’all.” [Laughter] She say, “Let me tell you what we got to talk about.” And he made his lesson plan with what she told him for next week. And one day, they had Blacks in science with Dr. Charles Drew, and she up and told them he died because he couldn’t have what he made, because he was Black.

	W:	That’s true.



	JW:	You know, he couldn’t have the blood plasma.





	W:	He died without getting the plasma.



	JW:	He died on the highway. And all that, she made the science and then the day they had music, they wanted to have that again tomorrow. Because she plays the piano very well. And they sang, and they played music, and they had this kind of music, and that kind, and the other kind, and gospel music. And then, they did some politics, and they had some presidents, and I have to get that stuff together. And they had it. They wanted to do it next week, too!

	W:	Well, you know, because of Rosewood, that legislation they passed...



	R:	There you go. That’s that man’s name. Rosenwald. I couldn’t think of—what did you call it, what name did you call?

	W:	I was speaking about the town of Rosewood, but Rosenwald is the man with the educator. Because of the Rosewood legislation that the state of Florida passed, every school district is required to teach about Black history, Native American history, and Jewish history. But they don’t do it.

	JW:	We don’t do it.



	W:	They don’t know the local history.



	JW:	I got the mandate, and it’s in the Florida statutes. But they don’t do it.



	W:	That’s why I believe that sitting here in this dining room with you all is so important. Because you could go and speak to local students, and that would meet the criteria for multicultural education. Just, you sit and talk for thirty days: “This is what it was like when I grew up.” That would meet it, but they don’t even do that. So I’m hoping that when we put this together, it’ll give people a little map





so they can say, “All you do is go and talk to people.” And you can have a program, too.

	JW:	They can’t conceive of not going to the same bathroom.



W:  Oh, yeah? Somebody showed me the “Colored” and “White only” signs that they used to have in High Springs. Somebody had some of them put up somewhere. So, I got to see those.

R:  But I mean, [inaudible 27:28]. W:  Now, it is. Yes.

	R:	That is what I thought. Because in Mayo, you know what they did first? When, see, I was at Kirbo Elementary School, and Miss Chapman was coming from Greenville, [inaudible 27:43].

	JW:	I have a backup, so you can have it back.



	W:	Oh, thank you. I will bring it back, too, though.



	R:	Did you know they wrote us a letter—all the teachers at Kirbo? They told us that they had to close Kirbo School down. And well, we had to come home. But honey, when the state got hold to it, federal government, they went back out there, and the next week, we got another letter saying “come to work.” [Laughter] That wasn’t as fun as it was in Madison. Know what they did in Madison? They integrated, but Black teachers taught Black and White teachers taught White, and they went there, and this lady said to me, “Did you know what happened?

We went to lunch one day. And when I got back, I had half my children White and half of them Black.” I had never heard of it being done like that.





	W:	So, at lunch, they ate together, for the classroom, it was still segregated. But the school was considered integrated?

	R:	No, they integrated, but the Black still taught the Black, and the White still taught the White.

	W:	Thank you. And you will have these back on the 22nd, either by mail or me personally delivering them. You have my card still, don’t you?

	JW:	Yes.



	W:	Let me put my cell phone number and my home address down. JW:	I’m saving that.

	R:	His card somewhere here with his address on it. I don’t know where.



	W:	Yeah, I’ll try not to mess with you, since your daughter’s a lawyer. [Laughter]



	R:	You aren’t the only one thinking like that. I think these doctors sometimes, you get better served because you that.

	W:	I believe you do, too. It’s sad, but people need to—sometimes you have to motivate people with just the idea that you need to make sure you do right.

	JW:	This house around—matter of fact, that raggedy house we were talking about tearing down, right there—those two houses were on me. And the man was fixing those houses, and he didn’t do something right, and I told my daughter. And my daughter called him the next morning, real early. And he say, ‘Why did you let your daughter call me, intimidating me?” I say, “She is paying you. Doesn’t she have a right to—I don’t have any money to pay you. She’s paying you! Doesn’t she have a right to talk to you?” But he did some stupid stuff. Like, I told him to do the bathroom. I didn’t think I would have to tell him to move the rotten board





from behind the commode. He did all of this over here, and he did all of this. I brought him into the bathroom and said, “You need to come look in the bathroom with me.” I said, “Why not move this board back here?” He say, “You didn’t tell me.”

	W:	If he is supposed to be a workman that is proud of your work . . .



	JW:	I said, “How would you like for me. . .” I told him the same thing you said. “How would you like for me to tell somebody that you did this, and then they look back there and see the rotten board?”

	W:	Exactly. A workman is worthy of their wage. You should have pride in the work that you do. You don’t do a job with some pride, you not a professional.

	JW:	I told him, I said, “Now, my husband was a carpenter. Nobody been in my house but my husband, and I know work when I see it.”

	W:	Would you take a picture of us, please? JW:	I may not know how.

W:  Well, I am going to show you how. It’s not difficult. This is one of the iPhones. So you might want to talk to your daughter about getting one of these. Just whatever is in the picture is the picture that’s taken. So you make it look like what you want to see, and then you hit this button.

JW:  That’s all you do?



	W:	That’s it. You just hit that button. R:	He’s taken your picture, Juanita.

	W:	I took your picture. That’s what it looks like, right there. JW:	Oh, my goodness. [Laughter]





	R:	What you do that for? [Laughter]



	W:	Well, I am coming over to take a picture with you. I’ll set it up again. And you can even move different ways, depending on how you want to make it look. That’s the camera function. The camera is going to frame up what you looking at.

	JW:	Frame up what I’m looking at.



	W:	Now, you got to be careful, because you don’t want to put your finger over that. JW:	Wait a minute now. In the back? Oh, that’s the eye.

	W:	Yeah, that’s got to be clear. That’s the eye, yeah. See, it just looks at whatever you point it at, is what it takes.

	JW:	Now, that eye is looking at her. And now, it’s over there, looking at . . .



	W:	It’s going look wherever you hold it. And then, when you get ready to take the picture, just hit—

		JW:		Just mash that. A dumbo can do that! W:	That is all you gotta do.

	JW:	Oh, my goodness. Okay. All I’ve got to do is find… [Laughter]



	W:	There you go. Make it look the way you want, and hit the button. R:	He’s taking a picture with me! [Laughter]

	JW:	Oh, my goodness, you going to be laughing! Okay. W:	Touch it.

	JW:	Right here; touch it. W:	That’s it.

	JW:	That’s all?



	W:	That’s it. Let’s see what it looks like.





	JW:	Oh, my goodness.



	W:	That’s what it looks like, right there. That’s good. R:	I have to see.

	JW:	Now, what you got to do to get it?



	W:	I can send it by email, or I can print it out. Do you have a cell phone? I can send it to your cell phone, if your cell phone will take pictures.

	JW:	I don’t know whether it will take pictures or not.



	W:	What kind of cell phone you got? Let me take a look. JW:	I don’t know.

	R:	My cell phone—I don’t like it.



	JW:	I didn’t qualify for one of those SafeLink ones.



R:  Did you know what? I didn’t tell you about our first typing class. We had to sell candy and buy us some typing machines. And when the superindent came out there, and he saw Essie Mae, James Preston, Johnnie Lee, Mary, Ethel

			[inaudible at 34:32]	, and all them that was in a higher grade than me, they were busy typing. And that superintendent walked in, and called that principal back his name. “Homer Smith! You know better than to give these children these typewriters! You know that is not the type of work they going be doing. You go down to that place and get some of that lumber. And get that lumber, and clean that place out there, and let them farm. You know what they going to be doing. They won’t be doing that!” And you know what? The principal wasn’t like the doctor over there in Quincy. He took them typewriters and carried them home, and he did not teach typing. But now, when they called about that





course that doctors have to have in Quincy, the principal said okay. So those children went to school to his house every Saturday to have that particular course that medicine needed.

	W:	May I see you phone for a second. How long have you had this one? JW:	I got it in March in last year.

	W:	Let’s see, you have got a menu on here,



	JW:	Well, I don’t use phones unless I’m calling somebody. W:	Do you text on your phone?

	JW:	No.



	W:	You don’t send texts? JW:	No, I don’t do that.

	W:	OK, so you just use it as a phone. JW:	I use it as a phone.

	W:	It’s got BlueTooth on it and multi-media; it might be able to receive—it says you can accept images. It says you can take photos.

	R:	That’s the same thing you just did. W:	You can take pictures.

	JW:	Somebody took me. I’m on there somewhere.



	W:	If you give me your phone number, I’ll just send you the picture we just took. We will see if you can make it come up on your phone.

	JW:	Well, see, I may not know how to get it.



	W:	Well, if it’s on there, maybe we can figure it out. What’s your number? JW:	[Gives her number]







W:

I got to go home and teach my Mom how to do this, too. Because she’s—

JW:

I know it because she old like me!

W:

I want to send her pictures.

JW:

And don’t know what to do!

R:

My grandson say he going teach me.

W:

OK, now that’s your phone. You say he’s going teach you?

R:

That what he said. “Granny, I am going teach you how to use this computer.”

W:

Alright, so now, I’m going to see if I can send you this photo. I am going to send it



as a text message, and let’s see what comes up.

JW:

They wouldn’t give me a SafeLink.

R:

This is what I been reading about. And this is what I think I want. This Jitterbug.

W:

Oh, it makes everything real big. I’ve heard good stuff about them.

R:

I can’t tell when I am mashing a button on this thing. It’s brand new.

W:

Try this again. Alright, I got to put it in here a different way. So, one second.

JW:

I probably need to take this home…

R:

Juanita, can you take pictures with it?

JW:

He said I can.

W:

You can.

R:

Well, what you taking that off for?

JW:

It’s just the part that was on there when I bought it.

W:

[Confirms JW’s phone number]

W:

Okay. Oh, I didn’t even put your picture in here; I’ll do that later. So, I want to



send you a text message, and the text message is a picture.





	JW:	I can do text messages, too?



	W:	I believe so. Unless your phone—



	R:	Juanita, where did you get that book of history of Taylor County?



	JW:	I got that from Mrs. Woodell, when I was president of the Retired Educators.



	R:	But I got one that’s not this thick. But it’s still just for Taylor County. Now, I need to get typed up soon and put it together. Instead of saying I am going to burn it.

	JW:	Well, I got that in a drawer. That’s how I could go to it and come back very quick, very quickly.

	R:	Put it together I got all of the family’s books too.



	W:	Those will definitely be worth getting a scanner to scan that stuff, and that way you can share it with your relatives, you know, a lot easier.

	R:	Now, when you read this book, you not going to read a lot of that stuff we told you, and we told you the truth.

	W:	Oh, of course. But what this is, that’s just what’s written. JW:	A White lady wrote that.

	W:	Yeah. Well, that’s what makes my paper good. I write what was written by somebody officially, and this is down low—this is the real story. So, you compare the two stories. So, I am sending it to you right now. We will see when it gets to you. It hasn’t gotten there yet.

	R:	And the lady that knew everything they was doing when the war was going on— W:	She’s passed away.

	R:	She passed away.



	W:	Are her children still in the area?





	R:	I don’t know whether she had any children. Juanita? JW:	Who is that?

	R:	The lady who was over at the Art Center down there. JW:	Marylou Whitfield?

	R:	Miss Whitfield.



	JW:	I know one because her grandson was my student in kindergarten. R:	So she must have had a child.

	JW:	Ricky. You could ask Woodell from there; she could probably tell you where she is. Because I fooled around and let the photo shop close, and the awards were in there. So I had to find out who knows this lady that run this shop. And I found that lady name and called her, and she came up there on Saturday evening, and opened that store and got that stuff. “Lady, I’m in trouble.”

	W:	Who would you say is the oldest person in the area that would know something about history from the Black perspective of what’s taken place in Taylor County?

	R:	Our oldest person died. B.D. died. W:	Well, still living?

	R:	Still living?



	JW:	Still living, that could tell you some stories? [Cell phone rings] Two new picture messages.

	W:	Yeah, that’s me, I just sent it to you. So let’s see if you can make it come up. JW:	I don’t know how to make them come up. I am illiterate when it comes to that. W:	It says “view.” Let’s see if we can view it.

	R:	[Laughter]







W:

No, that’s two missed calls. I don’t want that.

JW:

I can’t be without reading that phone.

W:

I just took a picture with your phone. Get to the menu… No, I don’t want to send.

JW:

Where is the eye out there that takes the picture?

W:

Right there.

JW:

Oh, is that it?

W:

That’s it. That’s your picture eye.

JW:

Oh, my goodness! Excuse me!

R:

Show me the picture eye?

JW:

It’s outside.

W:

Right there.

R:

That’s the thing you touch to take a picture?

W:

Yes Ma’am. I took a picture of your feet without trying to.

JW:

Oh, you did?

R:

[Laughter]

JW:

I bet he think we crazy! [Laughter]

W:

No, not at all.

R:

Those are pretty shoes, Juanita.

JW:

They are very comfortable.

R:

Where did you buy them at, in Perry?

JW:

That’s a whatchacallit shoe. A Sketcher.

W:

See, “My images.” I went to “My Images,” and that’s the picture I just took of your



feet. So I found that.





	JW:	Oh, Okay.



	W:	Get to the ‘My Images’ folder. [Cell phone rings]

	W:	You got four new text messages. JW:	Four new text messages?

	W:	Yeah.



	JW:	I haven’t texted anybody.



	W:	I texted you, though. Those pictures are text messages. JW:	Oh, okay.

	W:	Let me see if I can find the pictures. What I probably need is the . . . Ah, new picture message. No, you don’t want to send one; you want to see it. Don’t want to send, want to see.

	JW:	But all I do is call people. And that’s it. And I do not talk in my car—try not to. If I need to say something to somebody, if I’m on the highway, I pull over there to the side.

	W:	There it is. You got it on your phone. It was under the text message. So that’s the picture I took of you while we were sitting here. And let me see if I can find the second picture.

	JW:	Yeah, sure is.



	W:	Oh, yeah, I did. One . . . JW:	I was looking at the book.

	W:	Oh, you got a bunch of junk messages people sent you. Some of it is kind of like—here’s one that’s titled “Sexy Lady.”





	JW:	Well, I didn’t even—



	W:	—know it was on there. My mom told me the same thing.



	JW:	I didn’t even know it was on there! Well, your momma must be just about like me. W:	And there’s the second picture.

	JW:	Okay. Sure is. Now, if I were to get them, what would I do? If I were to want to get them, and it was back to normal. And it was back to where I could dial out if I wanted to.

	W:	I’ll set it so you can dial out.



	JW:	No, I’m talking about, if I wanted to get those back.



	W:	Oh okay, what you want to do is you go to ‘message’—where your messages are. So, I will show you where that is. You go to your menu—this center button, the menu—and then you go up here—you move the arrow until you get to your messaging. And you hit “okay.” Then, you go down to your inbox, because inbox is where you messages are coming, what people have sent to you. And this number one and number two, that’s you sending the picture. This is you receiving. Inbox. So you hit the button again for inbox, and then you look and see what you got. You got “post pictures”—this is telling you how to do it. ‘Untitled’ and then see [Marna’s number]? That is me; that’s my phone number. So that’s what I sent you. So, you go to that and you hit “OK,” and then you see the pictures. There’s the first one and there’s the second one. So, that’s how you get to that.

	R:	Let me see your shoes.



	W:	The picture of your shoes?





	JW	My shoes?



	W:	That’s on my phone. R:	On your phone?

	W:	Yes, Ma’am.



	R:	OK. Well, I’m looking at them. They’re pretty. W:	Miss Juanita, what is your mailing address? JW:	[Gives address]

	W:	32347, that is in Perry, FL. And I need to add a picture and the picture I am going to add is—Ooh, how’d these get back on here? Very interesting. My phone is being kinda funny.

	JW:	Well, you have a expensive phone.



	W:	I got this as a gift for my birthday, though. JW:	Really?

	W:	Yes Ma’am. So, my birthday was March 21, after I came and saw you the first time. So, that is why I didn’t have it the last time I came here. But now it’s really— when I went to Mississippi—

	R:	Feel this one and see, would you like that one, just touch it right there. I don’t like it ‘cause I can’t hear very well.

	W:	It is very light so that is good but I don’t know what it really does. It does have a camera. Now, the good part—it does have your phone number written on the back of it, so you know your phone number. That is good. Can’t forget your number. I probably wouldn’t like one like this, because it’s got the numbers and stuff. Like this, I don’t have to worry about pushing stuff.





	R:	Like this thing here. I got it from my—



	JW:	What do you do to get your numbers done; I mean if you were to dial me, what would you do?

	W:	Well, this is glass. So what I do is hit keypad, and then the keypad will come up. JW:	Oh, okay.

	W:	So I do have to worry about messing with the keypad unless I want to. And then it’s got different things: this is my calendar, and for example, I knew I was coming here today, so I set an alarm to remind to come here. Today is the 14th, and interview with Laura Scott Reaves in Perry, Florida at 1:30. So, I reminded myself. It gave me an alarm, two hours ago to say, “Doo, doo, doo, remember to be at Ms. Reaves’ at 1:30.” So I do my whole calendar and everything right off of this. Say, a day like Monday, I have to teach a class at 2:00 so there’s “Lecture Paul’s class” at 2:00, Turlington 2246. That reminds me to be there. And it will give me an alarm two hours ahead of time to let me know to be there. And this actually, wasn’t that expensive. This is the old iPhone. This is the 3-G, I don’t have the 3-GS or the 4-G. So this is the most basic one they have. Having used it, I highly recommended it. If you are going to go to a different phone, get an iPhone. And I was very much against them. But you can do everything with that. I do my calendar off of it, I keep all my phone numbers. If I want to go, for example, right now—mention some place in Perry. I can type in the name of the place. It’ll show me a map of where I am right now and give me directions and show me how to get there.

	R:	Like the car.





	W:	Yep, just like the car. I got a GPS on there and everything. So, I like these. I can take pictures.

	JW:	So, when I change, I might find something else, but the key problem is learning to use it.

	W:	Oh, it’s very easy to use. Believe me, I’m the least technology person. R:	I got to start believing.

	W:	I get all of my email messages. Like, if I want to send an email to somebody, I just hit mail. I’ll get to see all of the messages.

	JW:	And then, how you put the words in?



	W:	Oh, okay. Suppose, well, Heather Bell is my colleague. So, suppose I want to talk to her. I hit that button. I can reply to her, and now my keyboard comes up and I can type in what I want.

	JW:	Oh, your fingers can get on those little letters?



	W:	Oh, yeah, they just say, ‘In Perry-doing interview’. Here, try, you can punch on them if you’d like.

	JW:	Oh. Well, you told her where you are.



	W:	Mmhm. I haven’t sent it to her, yet. I haven’t hit ‘send’; I’m just letting you type what you want to in there.

	JW:	I have to do it with my left hand.



	W:	However you want to do it is fine. Just touch them. JW:	Where it’s going type?

	W:	Right there in front of you. JW:	Oh, oh.







W:

If you want to go backwards, just hit this.

JW:

Oh.

W:

If you want to back up what you’re typing right there. Just feel free to play with it.



May I use the restroom, Ms. Reaves?

R:

It’s right there.

W:

Thank you. Feel free to play with it all you want. I will be back in a minute.

JW:

I don’t see my letters.

R:

Juanita, I don’t think you’d like this one because you don’t feel nothing on this—



just a flat board. That girl can handle it good.

JW:

I didn’t do that right.

R:

Take this home with you and read it if you want to.

JW:

‘J-U-A-N-I-T-A’

R:

[Coughing] Where is my water?

JW:

I don’t know how to type this.

R:

I know. I put something in the mail today for primary computer and if it comes, I’ll



let you have it.

JW:

Primary computer?

R:

Scott never did bring my part of my computer back.

JW:

Well, Scott needs to buy you another part.

R:

Because Scott need to give me one of those in your hand.

W:

Now is a good time to get computers. They’re cheap in the summertime.

JW:

Well, I got all kind of stuff on here. My finger is too big to do the letter that I want.





W:  Oh, no it’s not. Just go ahead and touch it and if you can’t get on it, jiggle around a little bit and see how to get on it because it will come up big when you it it, and let you see that you’re on it.

JW:  See, I made a mess.



	W:	That’s okay. Make a mess, that’s fine. You’re playing around. JW:	See, I make a mess.

	W:	It’s okay. No mess can’t be cleaned up. JW:	Marna Weston?

	W:	Marna Weston. M-A-R-N-A, that is me. JW:	Okay, Marna.

	W:	Yes, Ma’am. I’m the oldest of three boys. My Dad was in Santo Domingo right after Vietnam, and there were three kids—he liked to play with the kids and give them candy and cards and stuff. And they wanted to kill an American soldier, and these kids really liked him, and so they warned him. They said, “Don’t go to this area because this is where they want to kill the soldiers.” So, he realized then that his life was in danger, and he promised himself that if he lived, he would name his sons after those three children. None of us were born at that time. But I am the eldest; I am Marna Ronaldo. My middle brother is Mario Ricky and my youngest brother is Marco Rigalardo. My dad is Marna Ricardo and my Mom is Margaret. So, he said his sons, and then we all were sons. And then he named us all after those kids.

	R:	They did come back home JW:	Where are those kids now?





	W:	I don’t know; they live in Santo Domingo somewhere, if they are still living. I’m sure they are, because it hasn’t been that long ago. I mean, they would be just a little bit older than me.

	JW:	Okay, now I’m trying to erase.



	W:	Oh, don’t worry about it. I’ll take care of that. Just don’t hit “send” and we okay.



Don’t hit “go” and don’t hit “send.” The blue buttons—don’t hit those.



	JW:	Up top?



	W:	Mmhm, and there’s one on the bottom, too. Just don’t hit any of those blue buttons.

	JW:	Ooh.



	W:	If you did, it’s okay. JW:	Return?

	W:	Yean, yeah. JW:	Space?

	W:	Yeah, that’s fine. You can hit that all you want. And also, suppose you want to do some numbers. Hit this button, and your screen changes, and now you got your letters or numbers as the screen changes. It shows you ‘abc’ or ‘123’ down the right hand corner. And if you want to do a capital letter, you hit that and that is how you get capitals.

	JW:	Is it?



	W:	Mmhm. Yeah, I think this is the easiest thing, the IPhone.



	JW:	The IPhone. Well, the lady told me I could change my phone out if I wanted to at no cost, but I just wanted to…





	W:	Upgrade to an IPhone. That’s the way to go.



	R:	Why is it smooth on the top like that? I can’t tell when I’m touching the numbers. W:	Oh, yeah. You want it raised up, so you can know what you’re hitting.

	JW:	Well, I need bigger numbers than this. I can see it on there, but these numbers here are too little for my fingers. They are too little.

	W:	Oh, I got something else for you. See what else we got in here—you can play music. Actually, you want to see a movie? I’ve got a movie on here.

	JW:	Really?



	W:	Yeah. Ironman, the first Ironman movie. JW:	I don’t have movies on here, do I?

	W:	I got movies on here.



	JW:	Well, you got a more expensive phone.



	W:	It is the new thing that they’re doing, you’re right. But this isn’t the most expensive one, though.

	JW:	I know it.



	R:	The funeral undertaker in High Springs named Brown—



	W:	That’s the actual movie playing right there. A whole movie theater. R:	Get it off of the internet?

	W:	This was downloaded off of the internet. But now, it’s just in here. A two hour movie, right here.

	R:	Are you seeing?



	W:	She’s on her little thing.



	R:	I told you, look at that a minute—the movie.





	JW:	Oh.



	W:	You can speed it up or slow it down. Suppose I don’t want to see this part of the movie, I want to take it further. I will just move it.

	JW:	And then you look at that, if you want to see—



	W:	Let’s go to the end of the movie where it gets more exciting. JW:	Well, maybe that’s what the people be looking at on the bus.

	W:	Oh, yeah, this is what they listen to on the bus. They look like this, don’t they?



Oh, I left it in the car. They have earphones on, they listen?



	JW:	Yeah, they listening to—



	R:	With the earphones, they can hear it.



	W:	So, that is the movie. But then, I got some Etta James on here, and some Nat King Cole.

	JW:	Yeah.



	R:	Juanita, I am going let you go for that. JW:	Oh, no. I just want to—

	R:	Did I finish telling you what happened to that man who let us use our typewriter? W:	No, Ma’am. You didn’t.

	R:	In November, he decided to go hunting. And he laid his gun on the side of the Jeep. And it fell and cut him in two. They couldn’t even embalm him; they had to rush him to the grave that same morning he died.

[Music]



	W:	I have about fifty songs in here of stuff I want to play. I know you’ve both heard this before. [Louder volume of Beyonce singing At Last]





	JW:	Yep. That’s . . .



	W:	I prefer to call it a classic.



	JW:	That is what it is. And you calling it a classic?



	W:	Mmhm. But you can put any kind of music in here you want. JW:	But how do you get it in there?

	W:	You download it, from the internet. Or you have somebody shares their files with you and have it all transferred electronically.

	R:	Let me see yours. W:	Yes, Ma’am.

	R:	I am trying to see all them things you telling her to touch. JW:	The basic ones…

	W:	Well, for example, this is different. This is an Etta James song, but you can flip to different songs.

	R:	Oh, you moving that!



W:  Yes, ma’am. Try that with your finger. You can do that, too. Start with the center one, you can move it. There you go. That is how you choose the song you want to listen to. Just with a touch of your finger on the glass.

R:   Can you make it go backwards when you do . . .



W:   Yes, ma’am. Just move it backwards. Whatever you want to do with your finger.



I’m really glad that you had the time to come over.



JW:  Well, I’ve enjoyed my little stay. I was just thinking, you put almost three hours in today. I was looking at my watch.





	W:	And I am still going over to Tallahassee to speak to speak to some people over in Quincy, actually.

	R:	You going to Quincy? Will you get there before night?



	W:	Mmhm. It is only an hour and a half to Tallahassee—less, depending on how you drive. Hour and a half if you drive on 27, it’s an hour and a half.

	R:	Would you like to have a cold drink? JW:	To Quincy?

	W:	To Quincy.



	R:	I don’t have the canned drink, I have one of them big bottles. W:	You know, even water would be fine.

	R:	Water?



	W:	I was just going to stop at a convenience store when I left here. Please don’t put yourself out. Anything cool that you have will be fine, thank you.

	R:	Okay.



	W:	Now, I’ve really enjoyed this. I’m looking forward to finishing my dissertation work this summer so that I can work more just on history. Because it is so important.

	JW:	You going to type it yourself?



	W:	I may type this myself or someone else—we have a group of transcribers because they don’t go out and do the interviews. Sometimes it’s just me doing the interviews. But we have other people that just type the interviews up. But I will get you a copy of what you said so you can look at it. And I know I will do it because I didn’t bring with me, what we call, a Deed of Gift, which is your permission to use it. So, we can’t use it until you give us the permission, because





I didn’t bring the form. I had not planned on doing a full interview today. I thought that we would just talk.

	JW:	What did we do, today?



	W:	You introduced yourself; you talked about your early education. You talked about greens at home. And the grits. You talked about your relationship with your sister, and all of your sisters. You told me a little bit about your daughter and her education. You talked about being married, and then not being married, and what that was like, a little bit. And then we talked about the information that you brought over, and we just chatted.

	R:	I got so you can take whatever you want.





[End of recording]



	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, July 21, 2014 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 16, 2019