AAHP 788; Tolbert; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 788 Francis Tolbert

Interviewed by Deon Winchester on February 28, 2020 58 minutes | 36 pages



Abstract:

Francis Tolbert begins the interview talking about growing up in Pensacola and joining the Air Force after high school before elaborating on his fathers involvement in the NAACP fighting racism. After that he goes into his experience with the Air Force and touches on meeting Chappie James before comparing how he was treated around the world regarding his race. He then talks about his experiences with Jim Crow in school and people in his life who have had an impact on him before going into the changes he’s seen in Pensacola. After that he goes into things he’s done for the community in Pensacola and touches on his family before talking about his experience with the churches he has attended. He then ends the interview.

Keywords: [Pensacola; Florida; NAACP; Air Force; Chappie James, Nebraska; Japan; Okinawa; Texas; Woodstock Falls; Witchita, Juan Carlos; Spain; Detroit; Colorado; Racism; Segregation; Desegregation; Education; Community Service; Church; Religion; Jacksonville; ]



AAHP 788

Interviewee: Francis Tolbert Interviewer: Deon Winchester Date: February 28, 2020

	W:	My name is Deon Winchester. I'm here with Francis Tolbert at the library in downtown Pensacola. Mr. Tolbert and his wife, thank you for being a part of this interview and willing to share your story. Can you tell us about where were you born? Did you always live in Pensacola?

	T:	Yes I did. I was born in Pensacola November 7, 1943. Old Warrington down by the NAS [Naval Air Station] in Pensacola, Naval Air Station.

	W:	I look at this wonderful poster that you did of your father, could you tell us about your father, your parents, and your upbringing?

	T:	Okay. My father name was Abraham T. Tolbert Senior. He was born in Birmingham, Alabama in 1912, August 22nd. He died October 22, 1987, in Pensacola, Florida. We’re long residents of Pensacola, Florida because when he was young, you know how the segregation gone, they got actually ran out of Birmingham and they came here to Florida. During that time, Florida was like a haven for most people. So that's how they end up in Florida.

	W:	What was your childhood like? Could you recall?



	T:	My childhood wasn't really bad, but it was segregation, you know, you couldn't do, you couldn't go to school, you couldn't go to movies, you know, in certain places, you couldn't go, or they want you to come in the back door and all that kind of stuff. But, when the [19]50s came, when they started in Kansas about desegregating the schools, it was less going on around here. So, my father was the president of NAACP





[National Association for the Advancement of Colored People] for about eleven or twelve years from the [19]50s to the early [19]60s. And they filled a suit to the Escambia County school board to integrate the schools. Because we were receiving three- or four-year-old books, you know, kind of dirty writings in it, all that kind of stuff, calling your names. So, when he filled the suit, that didn't go over too well. We planned a lot of stuff in here, and then, as you can see on the board, with all the information that Pensacola don’t really have the correct information.

Because they said Doctor Augustus filled a suit, which he did, but NAACP and the citizens of Escambia County, they filled the first suit. And there was thirteen names on it, you can see.

	W:	Yes.



	T:	My name is one of the names on there. Because during that time, and people were mean but a lot of people was fair, because a lot of people who work in these jobs like Newberry’s and Kress’s, you know? But my father and several other people had jobs on the base, so they were more or less protected as the industry start coming in. So that made a difference. It’s really very different today because nowadays people don’t worry about money because all of them was contributing and helping each other. They can go places, travel, you know, so that was pretty good that way. And they always looked out for each other families and stuff like that, the church and everything was involved.

	W:	Mm-hm.





	T:	So, but we didn't have an easy. Don't get me wrong. We had to pass by a White school to get to Black school, or several of them.

	W:	Yeah—go ahead, I’m sorry.



	T:	And so, I graduated high school in 1961. And then I went into Air Force in [19]62, so in the [19]60s, I wasn’t in Pensacola. But I read a lot, so I’d get the Jet Magazine. I was in Nebraska, and I was getting to [inaudible 4:08] got killed on the beach and stuff like that. It was getting all through the news and they’re having marches downtown. I was in first march downtown by Kress and Newberry. I was that in the [19]60s. My daddy was kind of protective, he was you know? Fairmont, Florida had about six hundred businesses and the Black people kind of protected it because they were always together—in that era. We couldn’t go to school, can’t go to church, can’t go to movies, so we were still treated as second class citizens, put it that way. Most of us still like that today and don’t realize it.

	W:	Indeed. But your father, his role with the NAACP, certainly it was very courageous. To bring that lawsuit, could you talk about, from your recollection and family history, a little bit of background on the lawsuit?

	T:	Okay. My father was very active in NAACP. He was always traveling Miami, D.C. [District of Columbia], had a lawyer with him here. And got to gut a lot of people here. And he was always traveling around to all the places—I can’t think of the man that was secretary of the NAACP, and they was meeting and they was forming all these things. I know, Thurgood Marshall was involved. As later named, Constantine





[Constance] Baker. She's the first Black federal judge in New York. She was supposed to come down here. She came down here, but she couldn’t, even with a big case going on. Then had a lady out of Atlanta, I can’t think of her name, but everybody thought she was a White lady. She's a Black lady. She stayed in my house; I can't think of her name. I’ll get you her name. But anyway, she would come down during the case. I can recall, one time, we went to court and my dad was taking her grip. They was about to win the case, and so one of the lawyers called him to say, “I'm glad you got that nigger taking your quit rate.” So, she turned around and told him, she said, “I'm just as Black as he is.” Everybody got all upset. So, they had to take him down the back elevator. That happened right there in the courthouse. It’s just stuff like that. I really think that inverted cross in my yard, see, as you see there they’re talking about the women did all that stuff. They don't tell the truth. You know, and so what happened was that I think it took affect on my family. It took affect on me for little while.

	W:	How so?



	T:	Yeah, because for the next two years, my brother and I had to step every other night with shotguns and pistols and rifles, because we live like six blocks off Barrancas. My dad said he didn't want no law enforcement, but if anyone came out here, we're going to blast. And I mean, we were. So we kind of like things eased down, you know? Stuff like that. And then I found out my mom—I went to Black junior college into vocational school, so at the time, Mom was kind of eased and had a lot of family around. And I decided “I better get out of Pensacola,





because I wouldn't make it the if I stayed in Pensacola.” And I wouldn't have. I'm not turning on truth. I wouldn't have. Because opportunities and stuff. So, the Air Force kind of opened up the way, as I say, a lot of light that you can see that we couldn't see here in a segregated area.

	W:	Tell us about some of your Air Force experience. When did you sign up? Tell us about some of the places that you've been.

	T:	I joined the Air Force in October of [19]62. Up in Nebraska site headquarters was my favorite. I was there for like twelve years. And in Torrejón [Air Base] in Spain, in Madrid for four years. Then in all over Turkey, where they fighting now. Been to Hawaii. And one of my experiences that I really enjoyed was Midway Island where—World War II. I spent a year there with the Navy—in Hawaii and there. That was a good experience for me. And went to a lot of these little deserted islands. I didn't have to be stationed there, but I got a chance to travel around the world. And one of my biggest experiences was for about four or five months—I don't know how I got picked—there’s a team called Seven Logs. Air Force was losing money on the computers.

They only had the computers like a year before that. This had to be 19—What?—77? Honey? Yeah. And I got to be plaque at home about that. But I was the only enlisted person on that team, it was seventeen of us. I think we were wanted to do the general’s work for D.C., but I was picked on there. Everybody on the team was a tier seventeen, even me, traveling around the world. We didn't have to go through customs or nothing. It was just that we were going place to place.

Pretty good pay for my rank at that time. But it was an experience that





I’ll never forget. I went out to California and Alaska, places like that. I got a chance to go Japan, Okinawa, you know, a lot of places. The Air Force took around the world. It was a good experience.

	W:	What rank did you retire at? T:	E-6, Technical Sergeant.

	W:	And what about your wife? Where did you meet your wife?



	T:	I met her out of grad school. She was in school in 1964, and we got married in 1968. She kind of tamed me down a little bit.

	W:	She did?



	T:	I wasn’t wild or nothing. She's just saying, “I’m about to have your son you better cool down.”

	W:	A woman's touch. T:	Yeah.

	W:	Indeed, indeed. So, I mean, having been all over the world, it seems like, how did you end up back in Pensacola? In Florida?

	T:	Well, like I said I did twelve years in Omaha, Nebraska, met all these big stars. I liked Omaha, Nebraska, had a good job there. When I retired, I was playing baseball, softball, and I was pretty well- supplemented for that, as a civilian now, not Air Force. And so, when I got ready to retire, I was going to—baby stayed. She was from Milwaukee. So we're going halfway. So I wasn’t decided yet. So one winter we got snowed in for three weeks in Nebraska. [Laughter] And I





just said “I'm going back to Florida.” It was funny how it happened; you know? So, what happened was, when you’re at a base for like four years, you put BOP, Base of Preference. So I was at SAC [Strategic Air Command] headquarters for four years. And I say— well, they wanted to send me back over to like, Turkey and Iran, those places over there. I said, “I'm not going back over that way.” So, I put in for BOP. And I was working OSI, Office of Special Investigation. So, they said only place I can go was Eglin. And the only place I get in Eglin was 33rd Tech Fighter Wing, where Chappie James used to be in. So I said, “I'll take that assignment.” And that was my last sixteen years.

That's why I refused few promotion and came down for sixteen years and just stayed there until retirement.

	W:	Did you have a chance? Do you ever meet General James?



T:   I met him. I met him when I was in the Air Force, but I met him before Air Force. But I didn't meet him on official terms. I meet him like it we was at five or six a couple times, I was home on leave.

	W:	Yes.



	T:	And he was there like yeah, Commander of 33rd. And then I met him like that, I'm associated with him.

	W:	What was that? What was that experience like, meeting General James?





	T:	Okay with me, I used to work for generals, you know? I’ll tell you what, I had a couple of jobs for—I used to fly with him when he was in Vietnam.

	W:	Right.



	T:	Called him Batman and Robin. And he outranked them all, now. That didn’t sit too good with them. He made four stars, they was two and three stars. I can tell you that. I won’t call no names but that didn't sit too good with them. But they respected him. And they say he was a great power, which he was. The Air Force really get it done. But one thing I like about him, when he faced Gaducky [Gaddafi]—what’s his name--over in Egypt, the commander come on the base, he said, “You come here or I’m going to blow you away.” I like that. Yeah. We heard about that.

	W:	Yes.



	T:	Gaddafi.



	W:	Yes, Gaddafi. I heard stories—



	T:	He was bad. He used to scare all of the others— W:	He went up to gate—

	T:	Chappie James, he backed him down.



	W:	Yes. So you talked about coming from Pensacola, limited opportunities.



Seeing the world, opening your eyes, what was it like coming back to Pensacola?





	T:	Okay, I'm glad you asked. It wasn’t all great in the Air Force, now. You know what I mean?

	W:	Yes.



	T:	Ran into a lot of problems Air Force, too. W:	Talk about that—

	T:	Not the Air Force, but cities you go to— W:	Yeah, right.

	T:	I was in Wichita Falls, Texas playing softball and we was in a tournament, because our team integrated. So, it was only two Blacks on the team. So we won a couple of games, we were gonna go out, we got a day we can rest, so we're going to go downtown to Wichita, Texas. And that was a big dental school for the Air Force during that time. We didn't know anything, so all of us go downtown—Us two Blacks with the White guys. By the time we got downtown, it was like a race riot, you know? Air Force had to come get us out of there. And people don't hear stuff like that, you know what I mean, right?

	W:	What year was this?



	T:	This had to be 19—either [19]65 or [19]66, one of them years. And I like Nebraska. Nebraska was pretty cool because we went all over Nebraska and didn’t have no problem. Had a little problem in Iowa sometimes—and Kansas—but Nebraska was pretty good for travel.





But it was rough some places you go like Detroit or Colorado, so it wasn’t easy, it was just larger than Pensacola.

	W:	Contrast that to overseas, what was it like, you coming from Pensacola? You know, experiences in Texas, Nebraska, and what was it like overseas? What was your treatment? Like, I know you went to Japan and—

	T:	I got treated pretty good. I played baseball in Madrid with the all-star team and was only American on a team. They were really good to me. But when you go overseas, like that, Americans we’re so weird like “I want to get back to the world. I don't want to be here.” People will really get upset. Because, quite naturally, you want your country to be the best, don’t get me wrong. But when you boast about it in a certain area, that’s what—Now I met Juan Carlos, the prince of Spain.

	W:	Yes.



T:  I was in a 613th Tact[ical] Fighter Squadron, and we had a pilot named Chanecco that grew up in Puerto Rico when Juan Carlos’s daddy had got put out of Spain by Franco.

	W:	Yes.



	T:	Okay, I was over there during that time. And when he was going to take over, Franco about to die, and Juan Carlos came on the base and Chanecco, this pilot now, they grew up together. And he had him come over, we got a chance to meet him, so that was pretty interesting. Because Spain was beautiful. I mean, we could go on trips. We could





leave our doors open. We'd go there from [19]72 to [19]76. See, we missed all that Nixon stuff.

	W:	Yes.



	T:	But it was so nice. She’ll tell you, they was good to us, had no problem. We got along great. Every now and then, the countries—we were there when some terrorists stopped the plane on the runway because I lived in—what's it called, honey? No, no, we lived in base housing. The first two years we lived off-base, and the last two years we lived on-base.

But the on-base is right in the middle of Madrid. So, you had to drive through the airport—[inaudible 17:02]—coming back to the base. So, every morning, I’d come to the base, it’s like twenty-two miles. So, one morning they had some terrorists that had stopped a plane on the runway. I forget what year, but anyway, I know they gave them like couple hours to get off. They blew the whole plane up. That kind of shook me up. [Laughter] They blew the whole plane up. I met a lot of African guys over there, something like that. Spain was beautiful though. I like Germany, Italy, I like all of them, you know? I used to go to all of them.

	W:	You've been to a lot of places.



	T:	But I spent a lot of time— the Spaniards was really welcome. Most of them want to be like America. They were proud of the country, but they were so amazed by the freedom we had. Most countries don’t got the freedom we have. See, now that’s [19]70—[19]76 I guess. It’s been a long time, but during that time, you know…





	W:	Yes. So coming back to Pensacola, did it change much? Because it seems like you were gone for a pretty—

	T:	About twenty years— W:	—Twenty years

	T:	—four—three months. Did it change much? I got different views about both ways. I really think it did, because I don't think we progressed like we should have. I mean, our leaders, you know— because lots could have been done in Pensacola, like other towns.

	W:	Yes.



	T:	Because the government had the money. But I think that our leaders let Pensacola down because they failed to speak up. To me, that’s the way I look at it.

	W:	Yes.



	T:	I can look at you and tell you something—You don’t have to like it.



Another thing, we can agree to disagree when we get upset. But if you said something in a meeting, and I'm going to vote against you, and then eight of us vote and you’re 8-0, I’m going to let my dissenting vote be known. So it’ll be 7-1. And that's what we need, to me, that’s what we need. And all my leadership schools—the Air Force sent me to all these schools and everything. We were told, “Don't be afraid to speak up.”





	W:	What about, certainly having been part of that initial lawsuit to desegregate the schools, I mean, coming back, you said some things change, some things didn’t really change, but—

	T:	Well, okay. One of big changes is like, quick, the school is integrated now. Right?

	W:	Right.



	T:	But the percentage of Black teachers to a Black child, is really low, really poor in Pensacola. Follow what I’m saying? Most of the students have White teachers. Not knocking that, but the thing about it is, they don't understand the culture of the Black child. And a Black child don't get no breaks. And when I say get breaks, I don’t mean, give ‘em a break. I mean, give them the same opportunity that you did to the White child. That my daddy used to always tell us, “I want the opportunity.” I can read for myself. I just want the same opportunity you have. And when I fail, I can't blame you. But when you deny me that opportunity, I'm a failure just about already. And that's the problem.

And the leaders—when I say leaders, I mean, our teachers, principal, I don’t care what—I mean all of them don’t speak up. Because I'm a principal here. You taking care of me and my family. I don't care about nobody else. My job is to try to bring somebody along. That's my problem.

	W:	I mean, I think one of the legacies of your father with that lawsuit is that certainly intent to open the gates. Not just for his children— that was part of it— but for all children to be—





	T:	Right—



	W:	—to get it education.



	T:	He wasn’t educated, but he fought— what’s the guy on the building, on the Escambia County school building. McArthur or—the Black guy.

	W:	Mm-hm.



	T:	He got ran out of town trying to get the teachers a raise. Now he coached my daddy in high school in his last five or six years, he used to go to my church. So I used to pick his brain all the time. He was a president—he formed several colleges in Texas and did get talk to presidents and everything. And so, if you come to my church you’ll see a history of—what do you call them, honey? — on the wall.

	U:	Hall of Fame.



	T:	Hall of Fame for all the big people in my church. So, he would tell me about the times coming up and about the day and a lot of things, but he was a principal, a football coach. He had to be everything because it was segregated, right.

	U:	Daniel something.



	T:	Yeah, Daniel and he had to put so much into it. And then when he asked about a raise, guess what? Boom! And our teachers were getting paid a lot less than the other teachers and worked with less.

	W:	Seemed to accomplish more. T:	Yeah.





	W:	Do more with the less.



	T:		Yeah. I can tell you this, what I liked about coming up: When you’re in the Air Force, if you pass tests, they couldn't deny you, right?

	W:	Right.



	T:	Top ten percent. And that turned me to be able to stay places go places. Now, my brothers went to Vietnam. I wanted to go, but they wouldn’t let me go because of last surviving. I got mad about it. I cried but they said, “Don’t worry about it man, don’t worry about it.” I wanted to be with my brother. But I think of all the times, the cases when I was in Iowa, Nebraska, the five settlers—I can’t say their name now. All got killed in World War II; they wanted to be together. And they all left home during World War II and got killed on the same ship. That’s why they say you can’t have your family.

	W:	Yes.



	T:	Their names I—



	W:	Yes, yes. I remember that.



	T:	It took me a while to get over it. Don't get me wrong, I'm seventy-six years old now. And it didn't come overnight. But being in the Air Force meeting people, pilots, people around you—I met a lot of old people that would tell me they stories. Like, Mississippi, Texas, Alabama, Georgia, and they used to talk to me. It set me at ease.





	W:	Can you talk about some of the folks that had an impact? You talked about some of—you know, you picked this brain for some. But talk about the folks that had an impact in your life that helped—you think back in your coming up. What do you recall? Who had a significant impact?

	T:		We had a guy that taught math. He had a brother named Dr. Hicks. I can’t think of his name. He was our math teacher. And watching him, real smart, great man. We had Mr. Marsh, he was teaching. Mrs.

Martin. We had a master teacher that it took time with us, locked down, you know. Lot of our teachers, they’d just sit down and tell us that you can do it, you can make it, and when you leave here I’m gonna make sure you stand on your own. In my travels, I met Malcom X in Omaha, great guy. I got to meet him. Met—can’t say it—he’s a sports guy, you know? Guy named Ronnie Boon. We had a guy that I’m really proud of his name Lawrence McVoy. He was born at Pensacola. He was a superintendent of the schools in Omaha, Nebraska, Douglas County. I think his daughters still living out in Chipley. I met him at a [inaudible 25:34] cafe one Saturday morning, I’d just coming back from Spain. He knew all about Pensacola and my family. He grew up with them.

	W:	Yeah



	T:	But he was Dr. Lawrence McVoy. Now, he really impressed me because we sit down and talk about a lot of things that led up. Then I met a lady, Miss Brown, she was from Pensacola, but she had a fish





cafe and she published a paper in Omaha. She was known all over the world. She didn't have a father and she will sit down and talk to me a lot but of a lot of things. And I met a lot of people in preachers from— What over in Alabama, right across the line?—Brewton, and all around. I met a lot of people that they say they picked cotton all they life. They ran away from home and came to Pensacola, stayed about three weeks, and then they got to like Detroit, Omaha, California. I met a lot of those people. They were talking about the older days. Like I say, I met a few famous people in Air Force. Remember John Davis? The first Air Force General John two-star Davis.

	W:	Yes.



	T:	Stuff like that. I used to travel a lot but it’s—I got a lot of these American books and stuff at home, you know, the information have to get back through it. One of my saddest things was I went to [inaudible 00:27:09] in March of [19]67. Came back in May of [19]68. I came back a month after Martin Luther King got killed. My daughter was born a year from that in [19]69. He got killed in [19]68. But when we got the news that—this was in Hawaii—that Martin Luther King got killed. We have Air Force neighbors, and some people was calling him the n- word, it big fight and everything, but it squashed. But we couldn't understand how they felt that way, you know? So, they tried to extend us over there for about fifteen of us for about four or five months and now we call a couple of senators, Smathers in Florida, I think, Robert Kennedy—we called a lot of people, now. So, they said “Get on a plane and next time.” Then in about three weeks they got us on a plane, and





they got us back to States. That was kind of a sad thing, and it was sad when Malcom X got killed, [19]65 I was in Nebraska. He was in New York.

	W:	You said you met him one time? T:	Yeah, I met him.

	W:	Yeah, where?



T:   Before we had EEO [Equal Employment Opportunity] in the Air Force, at SAC headquarters—Omaha wasn’t like forty thousand people, most of them were Black. So they have a lot of people come in speaking.

And when they say he was coming to town. I never knew—they said, “Malcom X is coming in town.” I used to try and read all his stuff. So come said, “I’m gonna be a gangster.” So I thought he’d be a Black man like you and I everything, big Red dude. It was about fifty thousand people in the park, right? And he got to speaking, in I just—I remember him telling us everything. At that time and people wouldn't go while he was talking. I saw the movie. Everything in the movie was to a “T” except for one thing.

	W:	What’s that?



	T:	They say his daddy got killed in Indianapolis, Indiana. But he told us at the park. He said—these was his exact words. He said “Y’all say I hate White people.” He said, “Think about this: My mother was four months pregnant with me up top Thirty Street in Omaha.” And he then said, “Four months pregnant with me. My daddy he was a preacher, and my





uncle was a preacher.” He said “They come back one Sunday afternoon. He hasn’t got home.” He said that made his momma hurt. At that rally, everybody was kind of sad, though. He said, “Don’t feel sad for me.” But I was glad him and Martin Luther King made up. These were my favorite people.

	W:	It seems like Pensacola, too, has had his history of injustices against Black folks. Can you can you talk about coming back and just Pensacola’s history?

	T:	Okay, my big concern now is the injustice in there for the employment for the Black people.

	W:	Yes.



	T:	So we don't address that enough, you know what I'm saying? W:	Yes.

	T:	All right, because we put one or two people in position, and we'd like that’s happy. That don’t satisfy the whole community. Follow me?

	W:	Is the employment rate for Black, African Americans, higher than the rest, for others? For White folks? Or for the rest of?

	T:	The White folks a lot higher than for Blacks. W:	Yeah.

	T:	All right. Because if you take our city right now. Even though I live in the county, we got more Blacks into the—the mayor since he been





elected, then they ever had before. Like I said, before you have one or two and that was it. Right?

	W:	Right.



	T:	That's all I'm saying. So I'm saying give equal opportunity. See, if you look at it this way. For instance, the superintendent now can be selected by the five county school board members, right?

	W:	Yeah.



T:  So, there's one Black on the school board members. Like the county commission and all the stuff. So do you think a Black man is gon’ get one of those jobs? Okay, let's be realistic.

	W:	Yes.



	T:	We can talk about all the stuff we want to, because it's going to at least be three of them that’s gonna vote the other way. So three-to-two always be there, see.

	W:	So, what do we do, from your experience? How do we address that inequity and bring some justice and fairness?

	T:	I’m glad you brought that up. I don't like the idea that it took voting from the community and said— “Let's say the school board should handle it.” I don't like the idea because you’re taking a thing away from the vote. People died for us to vote, and we should have that right. So, say ten years from now, more Black people vote in Escambia County than Whites. They still can’t win. Because we say democracy and more





power. But they’ve taken it away. Because the district you have will always select a White person in that district. I mean, common sense now.

	W:	Mmhmm.



	T:	See, they might not like what I'm saying, but that's common sense. Do you see what I'm getting at?

	W:	Right.



	T:	All right, and if I run, is like, right now, we got ECUA [Emerald Coast Utilities Authority] District Three. They got like, I think, five Blacks running one White. We don’t have common sense. When I lived in Kansas City—In [19]68 to [19]72 I was in in Scott Air Force Base by St. Louis. And Richards-Gebaur [Memorial Airport], Kansas City. So I was split two places. Two years there, two years—but I was back and forth, right? So there was a guy, he was the only Black state senator in Missouri. I think his name was Mr. Leroy Jordan or something Jordan. He came back one night and went to rally. Air Force didn't want us to go rally in uniform, but you know, you’re going to embarrass the Air Force. He told about three hundred people one night, he says, “You know what we're doing”—he was an old man in his late sixties. He said “You know what we're doing to each other? Now you see. We running everybody against each other.” And he said, “We got to pick one person to run, I don't care if it’s a janitor. He said, “One person.” So they picked the guy—I think he was a school teacher. He won by a





landslide. All right. That was the second city council. They got it now. I know you heard of Twelfth Environment—

	W:	Yes



	T:	—Kanas City. All right. I went to Spain for four years, come back there.



They're like six, seven city council, right? They the ones who started building stuff in Kansas City. In fact, they have a Black mayor now. This in the [19]70s. And he said, “Stop running against each other!” Pensacola doing the same thing. They run against each other like crazy. We have to have sense enough to say, “Hey, let's get the best man that’s running.” You know what I mean.

	W:	Yes.



	T:	That's the only way you gon’ progress.



	W:	But what do you think of Chief Alexander's chance for Sheriff?



	T:	You know, Chief and I went to school together—In the police department; I’m much older than him.

	W:	Yes, and he's about sixty or seventy.



	T:	Yeah, seventy-six, yeah. Chief Alexander is a fine guy. He would be a fine sheriff. But he got too much pull against him. I've been in several these senior citizen homes and these are people—and I’m talking about us Black people. And they’re going to vote for Chief Simmons.

	W:	Why is that—?





	T:	I mean, I've been with three hundred—something like three hundred people there. I don't know, because I ask questions, they just say, “Well, Chip treats us better.” But see you don’t ever give a man a chance. So, my vote, I look at this way, it’s say seventy percent Black votes in Escambia County. Like those things can be counted.

	W:	All right.



	T:	Like seventy percent. Right. So if everyone voted for him, I mean, Blacks now right. What is the chances of winning? Half of the people say—I talking about us now.

	W:	Yes.



	T:	You see we’re getting there, right? So his chances are slim. I'm not saying he can't, but chances are slim. So that means somebody's got to like they did against Trump. Don't go to the polls. A lot of people don’t vote. See, I'm a law enforcement guy too. I work with him. I like him; he'd be a fine sheriff. But see, if you see the politicians, see what the game has said already set up for people to fall in place. And then we got to be sure our votes are counted. We will talk about it a little bit later, but our votes need to be counted.

	W:	Has there been an active voter registration drive in Pensacola?



	T:	Oh, yeah, we have several organizations that changed—my company really got on it, my organization, we got a lot of stuff going on. NAACP, you got Black Voters Matter, you got a Black ladies thing, is a lot of ‘em. Like they say, you can lead a horse to the water, you can't make





him drink. Right? You know, it's an old saying, old folks, but that is a true saying. You can provide all things for them and—like younger kids today, they want you to give them everything and don’t wanna want to work for it.

	W:	Tell me something about your organization. T:	Movement for Change?

	W:	Yes.



	T:	We started in 1999, a guy by the name of Leroy Boyd. He has a big following on base. And we didn't like the injustice that was going on around here. Because NAACP and all, they go but they slow. They have to go like to Baltimore, Maryland, to get approved to have something happen. So, we started our civil rights, whatever the civil rights…what do they call that? Activity in Florida can’t get the name— but anyway, our organization started. So we can help people. And we have been having people. We deal with a lot of things. We don't have a legal firm, but sometimes we sit down and talk with the lawyers, helping the kids in school and stuff like that. And we got to approved that kids that do community hours and even older adults, that they can come to our organization and do them.

	W:	What kind of service do they do? Like if someone was to come to your organization, what sort of community service would they do?

	T:	Oh, well, more or less office work and sometimes yard work and painting and stuff like that. And we got people that train them up on a





computer, have them do stuff like that. And we traveled to around like Black Voters Matter. We go to Tallahassee last week to FRRC [Florida Rights Restoration Coalition], you know, that? Return prisoner rights?

	W:	Yes.



	T:	Me and Mr. Mead were down there last week and we’re active with that. And helping getting registered voters for convicts, when they return. The governor had to sign a little thing to kind of ease up a little bit, so we’re trying to keep that going. You know.

	W:	There's still a lot of work to be done.



	T:	Yes, sir, yes sir. It's just beginning. We need more younger people involved. And we got a few working with us now, they’re really smart. We get them involved. They can help lead, see.

	W:	You know, you hear a lot of the times you were going to school, there was that expectation for you to do well in spite of the difficulties and challenges, and how that prepared you for life in the Air Force and the challenges that you think—how do we now connect with the younger generation? Because, you talk about, we need more young folks, we talk about the young folks being handed stuff, but how do we do we leave that legacy for the younger folks? Especially in the climate that we’re in, you know, to ensure that we continue to progress.

	T:	That's a tough one.



	W:	It’s a difficulty. From your experience, as best as you can.





	T:	I think the—what’s that, social media? W:	Yes.

	T:	You know, that's plays a big part in it. W:	For better or worse?

	T:	It is for good, but, but it all depends how you take it. You know to me— W:	Yes.

T:  I can talk to my grandkids now. But see, you can get everything now. But I go into school; these kids, they’re smart. But sometimes they’re too smart. They want that quick dollar. You know what I’m saying?

W:   Yes sir.



	T:	—but they just relax—But we got a lot of them doing good, but we don't ever talk about those. We got a lot of kids doing good. We don't talk about them. But see, the bad news, the rotten news, sells newspapers. So everybody’s gonna put all the bad news in the newspaper and forget about these kids over here doing great. See and this is kind of like—and even social media don’t pick up the good kids. Unless we put it on ourselves. But the thing about it is, if we can get their attention— besides sports, I love sports. Because everybody want to be in sports athlete. But you can't do that. You know, I mean.

	W:	Yes.



	T:	I've met parents, some older me younger me, my son, my daughter— and they get hurt. Right? And they just go to waste. And my son, he





was a pretty good basketball player. But what happened is, I told him, education is the most important thing. See, so he went to Albany State and graduated.

	W:	Is that a HBCU [Historically Black Colleges and Universities]? T:	Mm-hm.

	W:	Okay.



	T:	He was born in Kansas City. My daughter was born Illinois. He had all kind of opportunities to go different schools. I wanted him to go back to Midwestern, right? And he said I want to go to HBCU. It didn’t shock me. But we were talking about Florida A&M or Daytona, you know. But he said ‘”I’m gonna go to Georgia,” because then his brother was playing basketball. Okay. That was the best thing that happened to him. He met the guys at played for affiliate. They locked up in Albany, had a brother that he played with, he was son of one of the senators, I got to meet them. They were the prettiest. But I met a lot of Black guys in my life was in the Air Force like Chief Brown, Chief Perkins, guys that just—one was from New Orleans. They would sit me down as a young man and tell me what I wasn’t gonna do—in the Air Force. You gon’ to get your vessel, you're not going to be like others. I start off in a missile squadron. They had never won a softball game there for three years. We want to champion it two years in a row. I didn't like the missile squadron so I got put down on the support group, at a satellite program. I didn't have to do nothing there for like two days a week. Just watch the pages coming. I got a chance to travel and do a lot there. It's





just like to have God, bless me. But I think that the young kids need more encouragement. And a lot of it, see like, young boy don't have a male figure in their life. And a lot of have got to come from home and the mom’s working two three jobs. She can't take everything.

	W:	You mentioned church, what church you attend?



	T:	Oh yeah, Mount Zion Baptist Church, on the corner of Jackson. One of the historic buildings in our town—I’m proud of my church, now, my dad my family. But Mount Zion like write the names, you know, Harris’s name is up there, one of those guys that was good in NAACP. They all were my church members too. But they went all around. But I want to get—What name is it?—a guy named Reverend Dobbins.

	W:	Yes.



	T:	He was he was our youth leader when I came along. W:	Yes.

	T:	And the first march, don't forget him because he was really, really knowledgeable about what was going on. Reverend Dobbins, I don’t know if it was W.C. Dobbins or what, but he was he was fine young man. And so, like I was telling you, I had to go to Ocala to get some of the information that I have. What was I talking about, Jacksonville? But I'm going to tell you this and I'm not going to calling no name.

	W:	Yes sir, speak the truth.





	T:	I went to several, I’ll tell him, I went to several churches like when I made the board for my dad. And so, they let me. So I have several people in town. “They Black, let me borrow your board.” Had my board a week, right? They got right up to the interview, we’re going to talk. So I guess people downtown said “We don’t want that, that’s negative.” So that's why they’ve been out. But see, I'm determined. Air Force taught me this—that if you’re right, don’t back down. My daddy too, but see Air Force a pride, P-R-I-D-E, Professional Results in Daily Efforts. We gotta do something right? Now the topic is aim high. And President Trump just come up a new organization about space, a Black man in charge of it. A new Telecom. You know he got to be tough. You see what I’m getting at.

	W:	Yes sir.



	T:	So don’t say what we can’t do.



	W:	All right. Indeed. Is there anything else he would like to share? U:	Hello—

	T:	The only thing I'd like to say is Pensacola, we need to work more together. You know, look like one organization. Get going, another one, put them down. Like, and then wanna to do the same thing. I've been in cities like St. Louis, Kansas City, Chicago, Omaha, Nebraska, where people started something and people back on them instead of trying to go off them. I know, everybody got to live, don't get me wrong. But this





is not a café. This is organization. And we get five hundred of them strong, then we can do it. Two hundred plays upside down.

	W:	You know, when I was last in Pensacola, I interviewed someone I believe he's associated with Moving the Chains [Movement for Change]. Tall gentleman, I forgot his name. But he said the same thing. You know, he was talking along the same lines—

	T:	Brother Joe.



	W:	—Joe. Yes, yes. He was saying the exact same thing that you would tell—

	T:	He’s a retired Army man, too. W:	Yes, he is.

	T:	Here's my plan. Obama proved something to us that’s really important.



Right?



	W:	What’s that?



	T:	Obama? We all get along. Okay, say we get thirty thousand Blacks in Escambia County, right? If we get $1, right at $30,000. Right. Some of us give more than that. But we started with $30,000. You think we can't move an organization? And half of us can give that anyway. Not trying to be funny. Thousand dollars a month. You see what I'm getting at?

	W:	Yes sir.



	T:	So, don't tell me we can't do it. It’s that we don't, because we don't get along. My mother says something that--It hurt me when she said it, but





it turned out to be true. She said, “Baby—” Grandma and all of them didn’t want me to go into the Air Force. She said, “Integration is gonna be great, but its gonna hurt us, because we won't stick together.” She says, “We're like them doggone crabs. Every time we get up, we pull them down.” And that still happens today. And what she meant was, integration going help a lot of us. But we not going to bring others around. Dr. King used to preach the same thing. Let's help each other. I'm not here to make it for me and didn't say doggone you.

	W:	Yes sir.



	T:	And I’m worried about helping my children and my grandchildren, but I'm not helping you. With churches—back to my church, though, is we got a lot of history from our church. I’m going to show you something about the voting thing for my church. And something that, you’ll probably--I spoke to several people in the churches about this and they get upset. But page nine here.

	W:	And we are reading just for the record. We are reading from the one hundred and thirty-second anniversary of Mount Zion Baptist Church.

	T:	Yes, and all our history I just happen to have— W:	1980 [1880] to 2012.

	T:	Right. But in every year since then, we have our history, now. But go ahead. I want you to read this start where it says Conwell.

	W:	Reverend Raymond A. Conwell 1941 to 1945 followed Reverend



Henry as the pastor of Mount Zion. During this pastor, the members





were able to free themselves from the mortgage of $3,700. The basement was completed, modern gas heating was installed, comfortable pews were placed in the sanctuary, a modern brick parsonage was rebuilt and paid for, a air cooling system was installed in the church, and many other improvements at a cost of more than

$17,000. In early 1945, Pastor Conwell proposed to the church that it spearhead a lawsuit to abolish the White Democratic primary then prevailing in the state of Florida and most of the Southern states. The church unanimously accepted the proposal and took the first offering to finance this venture into the field of civil rights. Attorney John M. Coe, one of the nation's ablest attorneys, agreed to take the case.

Incidentally, Mr. Coe was the son and grandson of officers who served in the Confederate Army risking their lives to perpetuate the institution of slavery in the United States. The laws of Florida require that such a case must have two appellants, one from inside the city limits of Pensacola, and one from Escambia County, outside the city limits.

Pastor Conwell volunteered to be the appellant inside the city. Mr. Esau Chavez, volunteered to be the appellant from the county. The first action was taken in the Escambia County Circuit Court before judge L. L. Verbinski, and in less than an hour, the petition was granted. The Florida Attorney General appealed the case to the Supreme Court of the state of Florida. Attorney John M. Coe appeared before that court in our behalf. Thus, in the June term of 1945, the Supreme Court of the state of Florida ruled unanimously that Negroes were entitled to vote in all elections in the entire state of Florida. This





was twenty-five years before the March on Washington, twenty years before the Voting Rights Act was passed by the United States Congress in 1965. The total cost of the litigation was only $1,000.

Reverend G. S. Johnson, pastor of the Allen Chapel AME [African Methodist Episcopal] church, president of the local NAACP at the time, and Reverend Johnson asked the NAACP National Branch to contribute $500 of the cost. The other $500 was raised by a few Black churches. However, most of it came from the members of Mount Zion Baptist Church.

	T:	That’s history, I don’t care what nobody says. W:	Yes sir.

	T:	You probably didn’t know that, did you? W:	Well—

	T:	No I’m just saying—



	W:	Certainly not that it was passed here in Florida, twenty-five years before the March on Washington, twenty years before--

	T:	Voter Rights. You see, it’s history. See, this was out before, but people don't want to put it out. I mean, you know what I'm saying, right?

	W:	Yes sir.



	T:	So we need some like—this is history. But, you know, not everybody wants to hear what I'm trying to say. We need to know about it. See, voting rights started a long time ago. Don't get me wrong, because the





Civil Rights Act, we needed it. And the [19]60s was our most demonstrating decade of our life, you know?

	W:	Yes sir.



	T:	We had others too, but that was really demonstrating because we lost lives. A lot of it had to do with Emmett Till. when he got killed, you know, as teenager in Mississippi. And so, we just can't let this stuff just lay low. Because these people suffer. They suffer.

	W:	Yes sir. A lot of sacrifices.



	T:	I enjoy it, because you listen to a lot of people don't have time to talk and listen.

	W:	Indeed, and that's what we're here for, you know, as we wrap up, you know, one last thing you talked to bring it back full circle, you talked in the beginning about your upbringing. You've talked about how the community was together and supported each other, and you talked about how now there's that fragmentation. But when you look at the lawsuit that your father brought, you look at this lawsuit and you see how the community—

	T:	The NAACP, and he was the president, but go ahead.



	W:	You know, how they were able to mobilize the community and to fund initiatives like this in the judicial system. You know, you ask now…with the progress that we have made, can we not come together and do as your father did, or do as Mount Zion?





	T:	You know, you're so true about that. But the problem we have is, say for instance my organization, Movement for Change, right? We started something. The NAACP, the other organizations, they want to take over. You see what I’m getting at, right? No, everybody wants the credit, but let’s work together and we all get credit. You follow what I’m saying?

	W:	What is it going to take for us, to overcome those differences and to really come together? I mean, we know back in the day, the external social circumstance dictated that “Hey, okay, we couldn't go across the train tracks to do but we have to support each other. But, like your mother said, integration would cause us to sort of go apart. How do we, because you've been there, you’ve—

	T:	You know I think, one thing—respect got to be a respected person. Guys who are the kind of educated, you got to respect the individual. And when they speak, you got to listen. He didn't come from nothing. Not because I'm sitting up here and you down there and you don't have anything to say. Because trees start from the roots right? To go up, right? So I need you down there, right? I got the water you. I'm just saying, and until we learn that as a race—because I'm up here, I got me. Absolutely, I am. But I don't have it made. Because I'm up here. It's a matter of appearance. There’s always someone higher than me. And I come to work and they say, “You going home tomorrow,” and I'm making $100,000 from my job and now I'm all upset. Oh, you know, but who do I got to turn to? I got turned to these organizations to try to help fight my battle, right?





	W:	Yes sir.



	T:	But before that. I want to get them five dollars, right? You see what I’m getting at now? We got to learn how to understand that—we ain’t got to give a lot of money. But we got to be able to understand and support something we care about. And I love my church and all that stuff, all the church but a lot of churches have got disintegrate involved, like it was in the old days. Right? They were involved. They, the leaders, were involved. So they had the Christian element along with it. You see, and I think that hurt us too.

	W:	Yes.



	T:	Working together is gonna have to do, we’ve got to work together.



	W:	Good, we work together. Well, I think on that note, I think it’s, I thank you—

	T:	I enjoyed it.



	W:	--for sharing your story. Thank you for taking the time, and let's work together. Let's continue to work out

	T:	You got caught up because—turn it off real quick. [End of Interview]

	Transcribed by:	Kasamba Kokayi April 30, 2021 Audit edited by:	Abby Lovett, June 3, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, June 7, 2021