AAHP 406; West and West; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 406 Leon West and Cora West African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Justin Hosbey on May 12, 2016 51 minutes | 24 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 406

Interviewee: Leon West and Cora West Interviewer: Justin Hosbey

Date: May 12, 2016



	H:	Today is May 12, 2016 and I am here at Paradise United Methodist church in Alachua in Alachua Florida and I am here with—

	LW:	Leon West. I was born September 1st, 1954, in Alachua Florida. CW:	Cora Rolls West, born in Gainesville July 30th 1959.

	H:	Okay. My birthday’s the 28th, Leo. CW:	Leo.

	H:	Okay, well thank you both for coming out and speaking with me today. We usually start these interviews wanting you guys to be thinking about your life. So tell me, both of you, who is the oldest relative that you remember?

	LW:	Mr. F.E. Welch.



	H:	Okay, okay, and who was he to you?



	LW:	He was the superintendent of this church. For many years he hold various positions: Sunday school teachings, principle at the predominantly Black high school in High Springs, Florida and he got us interested in the church at a early age, about maybe eight years old, and I’m sixty one and I’ve been here since the age of eight years old.

	H:	Okay, okay, and you said what was your relation to him?



	LW:	He was one of the leaders in the church and he had influence on the young guys round here because he used to help organize softball teams and get us interested in sports and also in church, in Sunday school and that’s what persuade us to come into church here and we’ve been members for the last fifty years, so.





	H:	Okay, okay. Do you know where he was from? Was he from Alachua? LW:	I think he, yes he originated here. Cross town Alachua.

	H:	Okay.



	LW:	He brung his family up here in the church. His wife is still member. He had a couple of sons, think one is in Orlando and the other one probably is in Gainesville.

	H:	Okay.



	LW:	He’s persuaded, at least I know forty or fifty guys, if not just say guys but girls and guys, to be part of this church.

	H:	Okay, okay, and what about you Ms. Cora? The oldest relative that you can remember.

	CW:	Relative, okay. That go to this chu- H:	No, just in your life, period.

	CW:	Ok, well, Clifford Weeks, and he was my grandfather. H:	How do you spell Weeks?

	CW:	Weeks, W-E-E-K-S. Yes, and he was my grandfather and we was raised not very strict but we had pastors in the church, in our church and stuff, ever since I remember we went to church. And at first, we been made to go and then it just got natural to where we wanted to go. Yes, he was a very good force in my life because he was determined he was a great man and he was a man of God and I looked up at him very strongly.

	H:	And where was he from? CW:	Lake Butler.





	H:	Lake Butler. CW:	Lake Butler.

	H:	Okay. And how did he end up in Gainesville from Lake Butler?



	CW:	Well he’s still—he was in Providence but he lived it in Providence and from Lake Butler to Providence.

	H:	Okay.



	CW:	He was a well man.



	H:	So that was just to get you guys thinking about old members. So tell me about, can tell me about—both of you—your parents? Their names and where there are from?

	LW:	My father was James West Jr. He was from Alachua and my mother was Isabel West she was from Quincy Florida and my mother was Baptist an my father also came into the Baptist church the later part of his life and I have two more sisters that are members here and when we got at a certain age bracket they gave us a choice of what church we wanna go to so we decided to follow the Methodist church and us three now are very strong members here for thirty-five years or more.

	H:	And what made you choose the Methodist church?



	LW:	Well it was a friendship thing. Our friends they was older than us and that’s where they came to church so we followed them and we just stayed part of the church and we never switched out. We was rooted there so it was good people coming here, good teachers, good folks, so we decided we’ll have joined a church and have our membership here.





	H:	Right, right and about how many members were in the church when you were a child growing up?

	LW:	Maybe forty- forty-five members. It was a family type church and we stuck with it. So Ms. Cora what about you? Tell me about your parents and where they were from.

	CW:	Yes, okay. My father was Cleveland Weeks and my mom is Ruth May Weeks, She’s still living, my daddy’s deceased. He was a pastor from the Baptist church and they’re from Lake Butler.

	H:	And I know that you told me, you mentioned before we started that when you married, you changed to Methodist. So tell me about that. What was it like going from Baptist to Methodist?

	CW:	Well, it’s not that much of a difference, I mean praising the Lord, having a good time, singing and everything. So, I changed over because I got married and he’s the man—he’s the man of the house and I followed him to this church. And I love it, it’s a great church. I enjoy being here.

	H:	So if I could ask about where you all were born, and then was it a hospital, or was it at home and what was it like growing up where you grew up at?

	LW:	Well I was born here in Alachua by midwife and I grew up, in a what would you say, like a middle class family. And we learned how to work and we seen our parents work so that was the thing we did and we just continue to have a life, tryna you know parent ourself from the parent our parents raised us so it’s pretty much the lifestyle I had.

	H:	And which neighborhood would you grow up here in Alachua ?





	LW:	I was born, I mean I growed up about five minutes away, maybe 4 blocks away and there was a store on the corner right here and pretty much that was one reason the kids—they would come to the church where the store was and you could go to the church and we fell in love with the store and the church and we went [Laughter] to church ever since. The store was gone.

	H:	The store was gone, and the church is still here? CW:	Yes.

	LW:	Yes.



	LW:	Little corner store. Candies and cookies, cold drinks, yeah. H:	What about you Ms. Cora?

	CW:	I was born in Gainesville at Shands and like I said my mom and dad they was church members and we was a singing group and we all knew how to sing and we just enjoyed it! We went to different little concerts and stuff and performed and that was our raising up; yeah, going to lil concerts and singing and my father played the guitar.

	LW:	Oh he did? Okay.



	CW:	Yes, and it was just a good childhood, bringing up yeah. I really enjoyed it. H:	And what part of Gainesville were you raised up in?

	CW:	Well, I was born in Gainesville, but I was raised in Lake Butler. H:	In Lake Butler, okay.

	CW:	Lake Butler, uh-huh, raised up in Lake Butler.



	H:	Ok, so thinking now about school. Where did you both go to school?





	LW:	I went Santa—well I went to AME base starting out for like 10 years until they had total integration and went to Santa Fe for two years, the high school and I started out at the community college but I was trying to do too many things. I was trying to work, go to college, be a family man, play softball so college didn’t pan out for me so I went back to work and been working ever since.

	H:	Ok and you work for the Alachua County School District?



	LW:	At this time, yes. I got five years with the school board, I put in thirty years at Copper’s Industry over in Gainesville, so looking forward to retirement in another year or two if Lords will.

	H:	Okay and when you were at—you said this was at Copper Industry? LW:	Copper Industry.

	H:	And what were you doing there?



	LW:	Multiple things. I was maintenance, heavy equipment operator, for thirty years there I did a little bit of everything and met Alachua County School Board—I had numerous of jobs and I have 5 years with the school system now.

	H:	Ok and what about you Ms. Cora? School?



	CW:	School? Oh! I went to Union County High, the Tigers! And that’s in Lake Butler, and I graduated, was gonna work a little bit make me some money then go to college and started working and never stopped. Worked at energizer and we made batteries. Put the negative and [inaudible 12:05], stuff like that.

	H:	And that was in Alachua, right?





	CW:	Alachua, yes, that’s how we met, in Alachua here, but, now I am not working. Yes but that’s about it for me working— Well, I worked at swamp fight cause I could sew real good and that was in Lake Butler, and then I worked at Energizer.

	H:	So can I learn more about you guys? How did y’all meet? When did y’all meet, fall in love and that story? [Laughter]

	LW:	We met about fourteen years ago. I was working part-time at Energizer and me and her brother was good friends and I decide I’ll try to strike up a conversation with her and we was like boyfriend and girlfriend about six or seven years and we’ve been married now—June will be eight years, yep so that’s.

	CW:	[Laughter] Yes, he asked for my number and I give it to him, I didn’t think he was gonna call me, and he called me, and it’s like, oh my goodness! Cause I hadn’t dated in a good little while so, I wasn’t really looking for nobody, but when he asked for my number, I give to him and he called and stuff, and we started seeing each other on the job, and next thing you know we married. Yes, fell in love and got married.

	H:	And you both still live here in Alachua? CW:	Yes.

	LW:	Yes.



	H:	Okay, and where at in Alachua do you live now? LW:	County Road 239, about 4 miles out.

	H:	Okay, okay, alright. So if I can go back to your childhood with your siblings, how many siblings do you both have and what are their names?

	LW:	I have 3 daughters, Alicia West, Ambria West, and Ibeala West.





	CW:	Siblings. [Whispers]



	LW:	This was before me and her marriage. CW:	Siblings [Whispers]

	LW:	Siblings as in the kids. [Whispers]



H:  That’s her brother, though, but that’s fine but those are your children’s name. I meant your brothers and sisters names.

LW: I have four sisters, two of them members here. Margaret West at age 63 and Patricia West at age 65. I have two more sisters; I am the third child. Barbara West, 55 and Tangela West, my youngest sister, she’s at the age of 50.

H:  So it’s four girls and you? Its three girls and me in my family. [Laughter] I’m the oldest though. What about Ms. Cora?

CW: Okay, my mom had eight kids: six girls and two boys. There’s Homer, then Viola, then Emma, and then me Cora, and then Jet, Clayton, Jess, Tina, and Joyce. So she had four kids, she waited four years—I was the baby at that time—

H:   So you were the baby for the longest, like four years you were the baby!



	CW:	Yes, and then she waited four years and then she had four more. So the two boys, there’s one in the older group and then there’s one in the younger group.

	H:	So what was it like growing up? What did you do for fun? I know you mentioned concerts, but Mr. Leon, what did you do for fun?

	LW:	Well, I was one of those fellas, I thought I was all around; tried to play a little football, basketball, swimming, anything sports I thought I could do it; and running, hunting. I was all around, rode in the neighborhood. We had a neighborhood of—it was a pretty decent neighborhood, and you had different





guys wanna lead us so we followed the footsteps of the other guys. That was the lifestyle, wasn’t a boring lifestyle.

	H:	Just kinda lots of sports and recreation, outdoor stuff?



	LW:	Yeah, and church on Sundays, that was a thing we had to do. H:	Church on Sundays.

	LW:	Yeah, definitely. CW:	Choir rehearsal.

	H:	Okay, choir too? Choir rehearsal?



	LW:	I tried a little bit of it. Yeah, a little bit of everything. Thought I could do it. Play drums. Anything, I thought I could do it.

	H:	What about you, Mrs. Cora? You mentioned some things, but—



	CW:	Yeah. Well, we always went to the games. What it was, our dad told us if we sang and go to church, do all of that good stuff, he’ll let us go to the games and all, football games, baseball games, basketball games, so that’s what we did. We went to church on Sunday and Monday we had choir practice, and Wednesday we had choir practice at home. And then Monday games showed—come up— we’d go to the games, we’d get to the games, so they’d hold us back from any of the stuff like that. He let us go to the games, and the little dances that was going on and stuff, but we had to make sure that we went to church and choir practice and prayer meeting, and all that good stuff.

	H:	Right, right, the church was very important. CW:	Yes. Yes.

	H:	And what was the name of your home church in Lake Butler?





	CW:	Saint John Missionary Baptist Church.



	H:	Okay. And so if you can tell me about your family in terms of, did they own land in Alachua and Lake Butler, or did they rent land in those places?

	LW:	Yeah, well, our family, they own. My grandparents live—me and my three sisters, we living on family property now that was passed down. So we’s always tried to buy our homes or whatever, so—

	H:	So you all live in the same property right now? LW:	Yeah, yeah, yeah.

	H:	Okay, okay. What’s that like, you enjoying having the family close to you?



	LW:	Yeah, it’s pretty good, we like it. Like I said, we lived in the city till—they moved out like thirty-thrity-five years ago, I only been out there about fifteen- fourteen years. Well now fifteen so, it’s pretty much I like the country area.

	H:	What do you like about the country, what is it?



	LW:	Well, you gotta whole lot of privacy out there, and you know, you ain’t—I growed up in the city and I had neighbors and in the city people visit you unannounced, but in the country, they mostly announce, they’ll call you or something and let you know they’re coming. So that’s—you can enjoy your privacy in the country.

	H:	And Mrs. Cora, what about your family? In Lake Butler, do they own the land or—



	CW:	Oh, yes. It’s Weeks Estate now. Yeah, a couple of acres of—I wanna say about—how many—about twenty acres or something like that and it’s houses all out there, I used to live out there too, but then after I got married and stuff, I came over here, but we got plenty of land that we own in Lake Butler.

	H:	Okay, so when you were growing up, did you guys ever go fishing or?





	CW:	We had a pond. We had a pond in the field, and we swam there, we fished there, we had a boat out in it! [Laughter] Oh, yes, it was fun!

	H:	So you had a lot of fun, it was very fun? CW:	Yeah, it was fun. We had clean fun.

	H:	Yeah, and then having the big family too, I’m sure that made it even more fun. So I wanna talk to you now about some of the—were there any Black businesses? I know you mentioned the corner store, or the store that was by the church?

	LW:	Yeah. Matter of fact, the lady, she’s passed. She used to own the store, she was a member of this church. So yeah, we had—

	H:	You remember what her name was? LW:	Mrs. Leola Glover.

	H:	Mrs. Leola Glover?



	LW:	Right, she owned the store. It was like, she called it a little meat grocery store. You know, small, small business. And we had this lady Edith Williams, she had an impact on this community. She had, maybe the first, Black daycare centers, and so that was about the only two with us growing up, the only two business I can remember that Blacks owned in the community. Then we had a guy outta town had the shoe shop. And if we’re not mistaken I think he spent some days here at this church also. So we had some great leaders in this church, you know. So you give it the props.

	H:	And what was his name, who owned the shoe—



	LW:	Johnny Ordeal. And we had another guy, who else that was? That’s about it. H:	Okay. What about you Mrs. Cora, in Lake Butler?





	CW:	Well, Lake Butler is a small town and all, but we had an auto repair shop that was owned by my uncle, Dennis Weeks. And we didn’t have very many of our own businesses growing up, we didn’t have very many.

	H:	So how did people make a living out there in Lake Butler?



	CW:	Wow. With all the land that we had, we—oh my goodness—I had beans, and cucumbers, and tobacco, and squash, and we had to work it ourselves. And my father was a farmer for a long time, and then he went to the school house and he was the head janitor at the school. And my mom was a cook at the school. But while I was being raised, we lived off the land. Yes.

	H:	Alright. And how was that? Was that—I mean the child helping the family with that—was that fun? How was that?

	CW:	Wow! It was hard work. And see, my mom and dad had more girls than boys, and us girls had to get out there just like the boys and work those fields. And all of that. Yeah. But it was fun because for the summer, when we did that, then we would go on vacation with the money that we earned and stuff like that. It was good.

	H:	What are some of the places that y’all would go for vacation?



	CW:	Well, we went to, back in the days, they had a six-gun territory in Ocala, and we went to Marco Polo Park—amusement parks, mainly. Like Orlando, to Disney, and stuff like that. Yeah. That was our vacation. We liked amusement parks and stuff. Yeah.

	H:	Have you ever heard of Paradise Park? Did you know about Paradise Park? CW:	No.





	H:	Did you ever hear about Paradise Park?



	LW:	Yeah, yeah, there was one thing about this church, we had quite a few teachers who was members here too, so we would take—they would take us once a year, that was whenever. I had been to Paradise Park, swimming. It was the same as Silver Springs—that side of Silver Springs, the back side of Silver Springs. So did y’all go there?

	CW:	Uh-uh.



	LW:	It was where they had the Black side before they integrated, so we went to Paradise Park. And like I said, this church used to—you know, we had kids involved, and we used to do things for the kids. We had music teachers here and the girls could learn how to play piano, anybody wanted to learn how to play piano, and they did things to keep the church going. We had wiener roasts, bible study, during the summer months, we did things of that nature.

	H:	Yeah, cause we do some research about Paradise Park, and we were learning more and more about Paradise Park, so I was wondering if you had any memories of Paradise Park.

	LW:	Yes, we swam, and like I said, pretty much the kids in this area—that was one thing the school also offered that for us to go down in the summer.

	H:	Okay, so coming back to the church here, are there other Black churches in Alachua besides Paradise?

	LW:	Either Methodist churches or just regular Black churches? H:	Just period, Methodist or any denomination.





	LW:	Yeah, yeah, we got maybe eight—seven or eight churches at the most. [crosstalk] One on this corner, and one on this corner. We used to pass by the Baptist church. We spent years up there too. But we decide we would come to this church, and just a few more, like I said, communities—got maybe seven or eight churches. And then over the years, maybe it was five or six, but now we got other people starting up their churches, so it’s about three more or four more churches in the neighborhood.

	H:	You remember any other, Mrs. Cora, besides what he mentioned?



	CW:	Oh. There was about five. Yeah, five. Right—eight—seven or eight churches. St.



Matthews and St. Luke.



	LW:	St. Mary, By Faith, West Side, got a couple West Sides, so we got seven or eight Black churches in this community. And maybe four White churches.

	H:	Okay, and what’s this church’s relationship with other churches? Does Paradise ever—

	LW:	Yeah, we have togetherness as the second Sunday in every month, and we also have another organization—all the Methodist churches come together on the fifth Sunday—they call it Fifth Sunday Unions, so that’s when we get a chance to meet our sister churches or whatever. And one is located High Spring, there’s another one that’s about five miles out Neebo, we have another one on the other high side of High Springs about seven miles out Bethlehem. I think it’s about five or six Black—I mean, five or six Methodist churches involved. Yup. There’s a plain that’s in Gainesville, Jonesville area, so that’s about right off the top I could think. But togetherness is the churches—all the churches come together—started





out about twelve churches, so now maybe it’s about eight. Like I said, this church play an important role in the community. You know we have young kids you know they’ve got their little organizational group, we have some of them out front now, they come in and use the building for things. And we also have a dance group come in and we strive and we struggling, but we maintain. Keep the church going on.

	H:	So was Paradise the original name of the church? LW:	Yes.

	H:	Has it always been that?



	LW:	To my remembrance, it was Paradise Methodist, and when they got under the—I think they got under the United Methodist back in [19]68, so that was—I was pretty young, but I still was taking part, and I didn’t really know what was going on.

	H:	And was it always located right here?



	LW:	Well, it was—they built this, maybe, in [19]68, but they had the older church about closer to the highway, that’s—I can remember that. Maybe eight or nine years old, but this here particular building, we been in here about thirty-five or forty years.

	H:	Okay. And can you tell me about this history of your church? What’s the history?



You know what year it was founded?



	LW:	That’s a good one. I would say the early 1900’s. H:	The early 1900’s? Okay.

	LW:	Far as my knowledge.





	H:	Do you have any memories of when this church was built in [19]68? Do you remember?

	LW:	Oh yeah, I was coming up, man. The guys ragged us in school cause our church was the old church—one of the oldest church, and that boy used to say, “Man, you go to the raggediest church in town,” you know, teasing us like that. So that really kinda used to get to me growing up, but we improved over the days and we had a teacher step in and say, “Okay, it might be raggedy, but you worship in all churches,” so that kinda made the guys back up a little bit. We had—like I say, when we had the churches, all the guys, my classmates, they either went to one of these three churches that I named—Paradise, St. Luke, or St. Matthews. Like I say, when I was coming up, kids believed in going to church more than—I would say—this generation is.

	H:	Okay. Do you know who built this church? Who was the pastor when this church was built?

	LW:	To my knowledge, the Reverend Johnson, he’s still a member. Pastor of a church over in Gainesville. Anyway, yeah, he was—they struggle a lot. Lotta older members, and he helped—he was part of the anchor, the backbone, he’s still in the Methodist church. Reverend JD Johnson. Sunday school is located out in the Santa Fe Community College, I can’t really think of the name of it right now, right off the head, but still affiliated with the Methodist church. Still good friend of ours.

	H:	Okay, so can you tell me maybe who the pastors have been over your lifetime?





	LW:	We went through about, we had, Reverend Johnson. I think, to my understanding, it used to be a pastor would stay here seven or eight years, so we had Reverend Johnson, we had Reverend Desouse, she’s still part of the Methodist Church. We have Robert Willingham, he growed up in this church. We also had Faith Desouse, she’s a Methodist pastor over at Stark. And we also had, we got, Reverend [inaudible 33:50] at this time. We also had another pastor—Reverend Milford Grinder. Let me think. One more—Reverend Watmore—he moved on to Atlanta, so I can remember about five or six pastors in my lifetime.

	H:	Okay, okay. And how has membership gone over the years. Has it stayed the same, has it gone down?

	LW:	Well, the membership has went down. I say the last three years maybe four it’s been kinda touch and go. But we used to have, like I said, it was really more organized. We was doing more things. I can’t say why we’re probably not progressing now, but we still maintaining. We pay the bills, we meet the portionments, lights on, we functioning with fourteen or fifteen people. I know we could stand an improvement, but I thanks the Lord for what it is.

	H:	Why do you think that the church is having the membership troubles that it’s having now?

	LW:	Well, they said –



	CW:	Some of them died out.



	LW:	Yeah, some of the older members died out. And some of the members being faithful about, truthful about it, some of them don’t really care for a lady pastor.





And I mean, I know we could stand some improvement, we could—and I said we need to do more outreach, and I think if we do a little more outreach, and I think put up a hundred percent—maybe down probably eighty—if we could get everybody to put a hundred percent, I believe we could turn this whole thing around. That’s my belief.

	H:	Mrs. Cora, what do you think you have any thoughts as a member here for the past few years?

	CW:	Well, let’s see. Like he was saying, it was a pretty good bit of members here when I first joined here, and there was older members—they have died out. And other than that, just like he said, we got about fourteen-fifteen faithful members now.

	LW:	And there be other straggles—I won’t say stragglers—but when they move here, they’ll come in the church, but they’ll not, what I said, dependable. Faithful.

	H:	Okay. So the church is very important to both of you. What do you think the church’s role is in the community?

	CW:	I think we play an important role in the community. I mean, like I said, we fellowship with other churches. We don’t have the church on fourth Sunday. We usually attend other people’s—other churches. And whenever the organizations that we was in part of, we take part in roles in that. Like I say, the doors are always open for somebody that need to have a funeral or some kind of function. The church is bigger, so we invite folks in to take part. We bring the high school—the middle school, they usually have a pageant here once a year, and like I say, we got another church supposed to come in the 26th of this month, they





got a smaller church, so they wanna have their convention here, so we’s open the doors for them. They families—they was once—they family members was once part of the church, so we help others. We put in effort like that. Doors open. To help others.

	H:	Mrs. Cora, you have any thoughts on that?



	CW:	Well, how we help the community is every fourth Saturday of the month, we have the soup kitchen. Where we fix a meal and let people come in, get ‘em a meal, and stuff like that. So we help the community out like that. It’s been working out pretty good.

	H:	Yeah, I can tell the church is very, very important. If I can ask you a bit about, just the issues of growing up here and in Alachua and Gainesville, and racism that happens here and what your experiences are with racism and if you think it has an effect on the church and what’s happened in the church.

	LW:	Well, let’s see, racism—we’ve had a few White families come in, maybe two or three, and they offered their service, said they don’t have a home church, and they took fellowship with us a month or so. And they went on their own way, but like I said, the people from the city in election time, they’ll come in and speak and try to get people to vote for ‘em. So I’ve, myself, I’ve dealt with racism, I work with ‘em all my life, and it’s—I say you respect me, I’ll respect you, that’s the way I see it. I don’t guess I don’t see the color, just service there.

	H:	What do you think, Mrs. Cora?



	CW:	Well, in Lake Butler, it was a small community to where I saw a few dislikes, Blacks and Whites. Then we integrated, and that’s when it really got to be a little





nasty. Had to integrate and go to the White school, and it was a bully, and not very many teachers, Black teachers, at that time, when we integrated. Now when we wasn’t integrated, we had all Black teachers. And then when we integrated, then we didn’t have very many Black teachers. And I didn’t like that.

	H:	So what was the difference for you when you saw, between the Black teachers and the White teachers?

	CW:	It seemed like to be the Black was really more concerned because they would really get on you and tell your parents and stuff like that, but I didn’t have a problem with that because my father was out there, my mom was out there, I tried to be obedient. Yeah, so I didn’t have too much problem with that.

	H:	Okay, okay. So with the church now, I know one of the issues that—well, if you can tell me from what you know, what’s going on with the church in terms of the Methodist organization and what they trying to do?

	LW:	Okay. I see they trying to phase Paradise out. I could see if we was asking for grants or loans from the United Methodist, but we haven’t asked for nothing. They volunteered to come out to help us, to say, show us how to run the church, and areas how to build a membership up. But you know we got a idea, we know what’s going on with that. But I—every time the district superintendent, whenever they come out, it’s all about close, and it’s not about trying to make the church survive. If we was asking them for handouts, I could see them saying “Well, y’all owe us numerous of thousands of dollars.” With my knowledge, I can’t remember them loaning us any money to do nothing. I know the forefathers here, and with Desouza, we had at least ten or fifteen teachers that was in this church. So it was





leaders, and I know they work hard to build this church. Some of the older ladies I know, with my experience, the pastor told us that we didn’t have but so many guys, but the women was willing to work, help do whatever they could to help paint, to help whatever, mix mud, or whatever they did, you know, gave people— gave the mens coffee, or food or whatever, to fill in, to make this church go also. I don’t think we should fold just so the words say that we not growing. We’re maintaining, so I figure we have something to go on, and one day, hopefully, we can turn this thing back around.

	H:	Mrs. Cora, any thoughts on that?



	CW:	No, just like he was saying, it seem like they just wanna close the church and I hate to say it, it seems like they want it for themselves.

	LW:	Yup, they wanna sell. That’s all they talk about, they could sell it. It could mean more membership. Now I could see, if they don’t want us to be part of the United Methodist no more, we don’t want nothing from—on the church—why should they take a billing, but we don’t strive hard for it. Like I said, we got me and my sisters, and some older members, we got thirty-five or forty years here, so it’s just like a home.

	H:	What’s their reason for wanting to close the church, is it just membership or is it—

	LW:	That’s what they said. We not bringing members in, but like I said, we doing outreach. We was always consider ourself doing outreach, but they kinda wanted us to get more involved with the community. Okay, we was taking part in the community, but we was doing it in different ways. So they want us to do, like,





some kinda, they would say outreach like feed the community. They gave us advice, we was doing it a certain type of way, but we wasn’t on a monthly basis. But we had programs, we invite people in to eat and stuff like that, we gave clothes, we had garage sales, stuff like that. I figure we was playing part in the community. Any time folks need to get off the street, come in want a few dollars, we would help them. And the church doors always open for other communities and other churches, other people. It wasn’t like we had our doors closed.

	H:	Right, okay. So with what’s going on now with United Methodist, why did the church join into that organization back in [19]68 in the first place?

	LW:	That’s one thing we can’t understand. I can’t, because the guys, the older men, about four of them were my teachers in high school, elementary, they talk—they put mars in us that I think they went onto the thing cause it was kinda like—since they was integrating, they thought you get in this organization and it’ll help you. Just like we thought, they said “when you integrate, that’s was best for all the schools.” It was good in some ways, but other ways it wasn’t. Like I said, I can’t see them really taking out a church because it was of part of a organization. Just cause we got under their umbrella, why should we lose? We don’t owe them nothing. We built this church. We didn’t get no loans to build it or nothing, so why should we move, that’s my understanding.

H:  Right. I’m wondering what would give them the right to sell the church if you all entered an agreement with them, what gives them the right to say “Okay, close it”?





	LW:	Yeah, that’s what I can’t understand. And that’s the emphasis the district superintendent put on us when she come. She had this guy, she would say what she wanna say, and then the guy—he’s a preacher in Gainesville—he come over and try to smooth it out, but it still ain’t giving us a understanding why our doors should be closed. If you come in this community, some of the churches have a few more members, but it’s all—they not progressing more than we are. It’s in spurts. Members come in spurts.

	H:	Was this church ever been involved in Civil Rights?



	LW:	Yeah, we had—I’ve heard some of the preachers been here, members, they was with Dr. King and all that, and went to the—took part in that stuff. And they older members, gone on. Then we got a few, I think, we got a few more maybe still around that took part in marches and went to give with organization and stuff.

Maybe my older sister, she had a little wisdom about that kinda stuff. We have another member, Barney, she might know that. She’s in politics and stuff and been in different organizations. So I figure a few more people got a little more knowledge about it than I have. I know what I got when I was here.

	H:	So is there is anything you wanna conclude with to kinda tell us about the church? Anything you want us to know about the church or your lives even? Both of you.

LW:  Well, like I said, I think we striving to make this church better. It’s not like we just sitting around. And like I say, it was a cycle I guess, this was passed on once we was just members just coming, now it’s our time to play the role, do what we can do to make it survive. That’s what we have.





	CW:	I don’t want it to close because we are doing some things for the community. H:	Important things.

	CW:	Yes.



	H:	Well, I wanna thank you both for your time this time this evening, and for sharing your life with me. Wasn’t so bad right?

	LW:	Wasn’t so bad.



	CW:	Wasn’t so bad, was it? LW:	Thank you.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Nameiko Miller and Chris Calton, September 17, 2018 Audit-edited by:	Samantha Crisanti, October 15, 2018

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 26, 2019