AAHP 571; Crenshaw; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 571 Anthony Crenshaw 7-25-2018 Interviewed by Alexander Herrera on July 25, 2018 25 Pages

Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; African Americans; University of Florida; Institute of Black Culture]



AAHP 571

Interviewee: Anthony Crenshaw Interviewer: Alexander Herrera Date of Interview: July 25, 2018





	H:	Hello, this is Alexander Herrera with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program here with Anthony Crenshaw talking about the Institute of Black and African American Culture. So, to start off I just wanted to start off like how did you end up at UF and were you a director right away or just how did you end up at UF, walk me through that first.

	C:	Sure, so I started at UF in September 2004 and actually came to UF to be the director of what’s now known as Sorority and Fraternity Affairs and just had completed my Master’s program, and it was a great opportunity and so I stayed there for almost three years, but decided to move out of Sorority and Fraternity life because I was engaged at the time and wasn’t sure that long term working in Greek life and having a family was something that was part of my life

goals, and so I looked for other opportunities on campus and was able to take the position as the director of the Institute of Black Culture in July of 2007 and then stayed there until September 2011.

	H:	Alright so, what were your first experiences and impressions of UF and was there any training or experiences that led you to become the director that you feel like led you to end up becoming that director?

	C:	Sure, so my initial impressions of UF were positive, I mean it’s a large institution, but again I worked in sorority and fraternity life—I had come to UF basically myself, the Director of Greek life at the time, we’re basically in charge of trying to help turn the community around. There have been some significant challenges in terms of Greek life and there have been several deaths the year before. And so,





we had been given, I guess, a great opportunity to think about like how to help transform the Florida Greek community into a community that was values-based and so, you know, there were significant resources and I think coming from the institution in terms of the success of that particular community. Probably after my first year, I think it was after my first year, there was an opening for the Director of the IBC and hoped that —after we considered the opportunity and after considering it, I didn’t think it was a great fit for me at the time professionally. And then again as I mentioned to you, my life circumstances had changed and the previous director had decided to leave the institution to go purse his Ph.D., and I kind of had given it another thought, and then I think when I interviewed for the job, I think that was the first time that I kind of really saw some of the disparities between, I think, the resources that were allocated to the Greek community on campus and the resources that were given to the institute. And I think for me, it was really difficult to maybe walk away from that experience. I knew it would be a challenge like, coming in and trying to transform the space, but I also kind of felt a little bit of an obligation to kind of help the institute move forward. The previous director, I think, had some amazing ideas in terms of like programing and how to move the institute forward, and I think had some successes and some challenges in some of the work he tried to do, and I thought that given my skillsets and my experience on campus that I could definitely help move that forward and so I think in reflecting on what we did, I think we were able to do that, but definitely [there] were a host of challenges along the way.





	H:	Right so, what exactly was your vision that you had for the IBC and its future and did it end up evolving over time?

	C:	Sure. So, I think initially I think I wanted the Senate to be more vibrant and more centered. One, I think today [the] experiences of Black students on campus, I think that the IBC, prior to me coming there, was a special place to some students, but I don’t think it was – I shouldn’t say that. I would say that I

don’t think it was an integral part of their experience, I think students knew about the IBC, they knew about the history, I think that students do a good job of telling that, but I don’t think that people thought it as a place that they needed to be involved in, on a regular basis because some of that related to location on campus compared to the Union, for example, and I think some of that is— just to be quite frank— when I walked into the space it was very dated and it wasn’t set up like a student center. And so, the first several things that we did was one, try to reorient the space so that there were clear places for people to like— computers and stuff were upstairs, moving computers downstairs— to give people space to do their work, print papers, just to create more activity I think on the first floor, and just to make it much more of a vibrant space. And then the other thing that I was able to do given my previous experience on campus was really able to engage a lot of student leaders, both from people who had leadership positions in Greek Life and BSU and all of the other cultural organizations that we started a counsel of cultural organizations that would meet, and so I think those relationships really helped people buy into the vision of IBC, see themselves in the IBC, they would sponsor programs in the IBC as part of





their week and so the IBC became more of a place to be because there was more activity happening there than I think in the past, like the iBC was a place where— the IBC did programming and other groups like DANZA or like several other organizations, but I think we were able to build it where there was a consistent interaction with most of the Black organizations on campus. And there was a second part to your question that I think I missed.

	H:	It was just whether or not your vision evolved over time.



	C:	I think the vision was the same, but I think the execution of it changed over time. So, I think when I first got there, being a part of it was I think — as I mentioned before — trying to increase the activity in the center, and then I think to —what am I trying to say? To steady some of the programming that either already happened, so like IBC lunch series is something that happened I think happened the whole time I was at UF, and eb and flow, but we changed the model of that from being to the director presented to something that before the IBC — before all the student ambassadors in MCDA followed the same thing, we had what was called IBC embassies, but it was something that the students who worked at the IBC, they all were people who presented those things to give it a student side, so we revamped some of the programs that already happened, we added some new programs, and every year we try to add something that appealed to a different audience, like niche of the Black community. So one year, we started an art show, we did poetry nights in the IBC, and then probably in my second or third year, I don’t recall, and looking at the programming landscape, we noticed that we didn’t have any particular programs that particularly appealed to Black





men, specifically. And knowing probably some of the populations on a college campus, Black men are probably are one of the most underserved populations on a college campus. We started a group called BMDI, the Black Male Development Initiative, and then after that, it was a Black Female Initiative that Black Women Initiative that started on campus, and so I think the vision is, again, trying to create this vibrant aspect of energy that both met the needs of Black students on campus but also connected them to broader resources at the university. I think that vision remains consistent. The vehicles that we utilized to get students to that vision, I think continued to evolve and grow over the time that we were there.

	H:	Right. So, did you end up meeting any previous IBC directors?



	C:	Yeah, so I already knew Stephen Roberts, who was the IBC director prior to Darius, so Stephen — so when I started working in — it was Greek life when I started, when I worked in Greek life it was part of the Dean of Students Office. And so, the IBC was also part of the Dean of Students Office at the time, and so I already had formed a relationship with Stephen. I think he definitely was helpful to me in terms of being a previous IBC director, and then Darius Bost, who was the director after Stephen but before me, him and I had a relationship before I started because we kind of ran — we would see each other at events in Gainesville and kind of knew of each other, and again, he left at the end of his tenure, I think he was there two years to go pursue his Ph.D. in California.

	H:	So, did they share with you some things about the IBC or related to the position of being a director when they knew that you were going to be the next director?





	C:	I think I chatted with Stephen more so than Darius. So, the timeline is that Darius left before the search that ended up — so with me being the immediate the IBC director had come in. So Darius and I didn’t have as much interaction that I had probably hoped, but then again I had also had a relationship with Stephen, so I think we chatted a little bit about kind of, his experiences of being a director, the structure of the department and the structure of the institution was a little bit different when he was a director, but I think some of the same challenges existed in terms of perception of the value of the institution, budgetary challenges, so some of those things I think were helpful to talk though.

	H:	So, how was the position described to you and were you hired under MCDA or was it just student affairs?

	C:	So, I was hired as the Assistant Director of the Multicultural Affairs and director of Institute of Black Culture, and I think I was in the first cohort of people who were hired — so previous to Darius, previously he was hired as a director of Institute of Black Culture. So, I think I was in the first cohort of folks who were hired under that, but in my initial job description, the vast majority of the job responsibilities still had primary related to the IBC. Over time that changed, as I’m sure you probably know or heard, but over time that changed, but initially, mostly all of my work was related to the Institute of Black Culture. I would say by the time I left in 2011, I would say it was probably closer to like fifty-fifty.

	H:	So, could you tell me about the IBC, like how the space was physically and how the space was being used by students and other groups?

	C:	Sure. So, you mean like after I got there?





	H:	Yeah, like while you were director and when you first went there, describe the space physically and what the space was being used for.

	C:	So, let me start and you tell me if I’m off base in terms of what you’re asking me.



So my first day of walking into this space, I don’t remember exactly, I just remember there not being a real form or function to the space, like there was a big, round wooden table in the front and then — are you familiar with the setup of the IBC before it got torn down?

	H:	Unfortunately, no. C:	Okay.

	H:	I personally have not been in either of the institutes.



	C:	Okay. So, I think the big things that you need to know is my understanding the houses are built in 1920s, so it’s literally a house that the university acquired. And so, most of the spaces are actually set up like they would be in a house, or they were originally. So, I guess when you walk in, it would be what I imagine would have been like the living room and probably like [inaudible 15:38] there. When you walked in, there was a cubicle and a roundtable that would have flyers of what was going on on campus, and then there was a T.V. towards the back on the right-hand side, like in the [inaudible 15:56.] And then on the left-hand side, downstairs, there were more cubicles, there was a senior secretary at the time, senior secretary, the grad assistant, and another cubicle for a front desk staff that was working there, and then there was a long hallway. You walk down the hallway, on the left-hand side, I imagine or assume used to be a dining room.

That’s where the director’s office was. And then in the back of the house, which





is what I think was an addition, was a restroom and a kitchenette slash I think when I started there, I think it was a work room maybe for some student organizations I think in the back. And it also was where the handicap accessible entrance was. And then upstairs, there was another addition to a large meeting room that had some artwork in it, and then — well not large— it was a meeting room, long meeting room, and then it attached by petition to a smaller meeting room. And then there was a library upstairs. The James Weldon Johnson Library. And then there were a lot of African artifacts throughout the building, and in the library, there was a computer lab also in the library. So then after I got there, we got rid of some furniture and then tried to create very distinct spaces. So, what we ended up doing is we turned the front part so where it ended up being as you walk in, there was a roundtable, and the cubicle, we got rid of the roundtable and created a social area that folks can sit and watch T.V., have conversations, stuff of that nature. Straight back from there, we brought the computers from upstairs and brought them downstairs, got a printer, was able to secure a printer from student government so people could — we expanded the institutes to be one of the spaces on campus where people could do free printing. And then, there was the computer lab in the back, and then on the left-hand side, we kept the desks where the front desk worker would work, the senior secretary and grad assistant. The rest of the spaces, in terms of like the director’s office, were still there. And then in the back, we cleaned up the kitchenette a little bit. So after the recession in 2008, we started a food pantry for students who may not have had access to meals and stuff on campus. And then we changed the back area from being a





work area to being a smaller meeting space in the evenings for groups, or like smaller groups, that would meet. And then we still had the meeting spaces upstairs, and then people could meet or read. So the library became more of a reading room, and then I would say maybe in 2009, 2010, we lost — the library was a partnership between the main library on campus and the IBC. We lost that partnership and so the library books got returned to the library. I’m trying to think of other big things that happened during my time. There was a renovation that happened in 2007, so when I got there the IBC didn’t have any air conditioning, or it didn’t work. So, we got all new air conditioning systems, new carpet, new paint, all that good stuff. Those are the things that come to mind most immediately.

	H:	So, what was the campus climate when you became director of the IBC in terms of what students said that they were experiencing and what the administrators and faculty were experiencing?

	C:	I think the IBC has always been a safe space and I’m going to say refuge, and maybe I— I think a safe space and a refuge for students to kind of be themselves and experience their culture in a way they don’t have to think deeply about who’s there, who’s watching. And I think that during my tenure, there was definitely — I don’t know the exact specifics — but there was definitely ebbs and flows in terms of the percentage of Black students and students of color on campus, so I think when I got there working in Greek life, probably 2008 2009, I think there was a significant — there was more significant population of Black students on campus, there was a lot of recruitment from students from Atlanta and out of state. And





then I think with some changes on campus, I think that seemed to dwindle a little bit. During the recession, the university had — I wouldn’t say a budget crisis, that’s probably dramatic — but a budget situation where they had to find all — there was a ten percent cut I think across the board for all units, all divisions and stuff on campus. I think there was an intention to move the MCDA and leadership and service from state funds to the student activity fee. And that whole scenario I don’t think went over well, because the way it was presented was that the university was going to cut funding for MCDA and for leadership and service. And so I think there was a sentiment that there was a lack of commitment on the institution’s part to help students thrive or be successful. But I mean, what I would say, to answer beyond your question, I think that the history of the IBC in and of itself is a good framework I think in terms of how some people of color, Black students in particular, have experienced the institution itself. Have folks talked to you at all about Black Thursday and all the things that led up to that?

	H:	Yes, and actually, that was going to be one of the questions I was going to ask you in terms of what were you told about the history of Black Thursday and how does it bear any significance in relations to how things ran in the IBC?

	C:	So I’m going to maybe answer your question a little bit different. So I definitely had a moment after I became director where I think that the significance of Black Thursday, I think again, to me very much parallels, like the difference between the aspiration I think that some students, administrators, have for UF and I think the reality. So in terms of what I understand about Black Thursday, is that Black Thursday is a culmination of students being frustrated primarily because of a





couple of things. One of is that they wanted there to be a more significant representation of Black culture on campus, there was before the Reitz, the student union was in a different location, which I don’t recall exactly what it was, but it was a different location on campus. There was a library and some other spaces on campus, and students would say, this was before [inaudible 24:44], they tried to advocate on behalf of the institution to have more representation in terms of books, in terms of faculty and staff on campus to get more Black students on campus, and their many other demands were unheard. So I think in terms of moving to a threshold of being frustrated, then that’s when you see events leading up the culmination of Black Thursday when students decided to withdraw from the institution, some people were arrested. For me, I think the most significant part of that experience is the difference between I think what the students asked for and how the institution responded. So, the students in terms of Black Thursday, or the students who were involved in Black Thursday, at least to my understanding, asked to be included in the fabric of the institution. They wanted to be basically seen as gators and to be treated like all other students on campus, and to have space and have people who look like them who taught them to have books that reference their culture in the libraries, or reading room or whatever — I think it was a reading room— the reading room in the union. And the institution as a response to that, was not only like the situation that happened on Black Thursday in terms of people being suspended and some people being arrested, but they gave you a house on the periphery of campus, and were like, “We met your demands, let’s move on.” And I think that for me, I think that to me





is somewhat indicative I think of how the institution responds to even current days. I think that the institution hasn’t taken a deep look to say, “Well what would it really look like for students of any background— regardless of their race, their gender, their sexual orientation— to really be able to experience this space in the same way that the— because you know, UF was a school for White men back in the day and FSU was a school for White women and FAMU was a school for Black people— to experience it in a way for the people that it was intended to experience in 1853?” and I think that is the overarching thing, I think that’s the thing that’s most problematic, is that I don’t think the institutions ever really answered that question, to say what is the experience of Black students on campus, how do we move to places and spaces where Black people can experience this space in the same way as other people? And I think you see that

— not that this is a direct correlation, but I think you see that and you know, like the graduation situation that happened a couple months ago, I think you see that in the structures of the institution both formal and informal, you see that in the debate about whether or not there should even be Institutes, and I don’t know, I just think that’s very telling.

	H:	Yeah. Were there any incidents that you recall occurring at the IBC or on campus that were related to racism that occurred while you were director? Or if not, did students mention experiencing color blindness or structural exclusion from the university?

	C:	Sure. So, I think that the biggest thing that happened was really around a lot of the politics on campus, it’s the student politics. Like Florida Blue Key, student





government, all of those things. Again, working in Greek life, prior ahead they didn’t expose too many of those things, I don’t think I understood the impacts on a particular community because when I worked in Greek life, I worked with students from all different backgrounds. So what I would say, what I think … what is challenging is that… during the time that I was there, you would see a lot of Black students in particular ascend to places of power, both in formal structures, student government for example. I think until the end of my tenure, like for the most of the time that I was there, there was always a Black person on the ticket of the majority party. You begin to see Black students ascend into leadership positions in FTK, in homecoming, beyond the quote unquote Black positions for the Black homecoming events, and so I think there was — there was some tension I think on campus, as it relates to that there is a perception amongst some that some of those positions are loyalty positions for people who are affiliated with certain organizations or certain Greek organizations on campus.

And I think that that began to change, and so I remember clearly I think some students who ascended into leadership positions or had aspirations to ascend into leadership positions to either feel threatened or to actually be threatened, whether that’s physically or verbally, or in terms of their current aspirations.

That’s the thing that probably sticks out to me the most in terms of those things, so you would see a lot of — like a huge emotional toll placed on some of the students who chose to pursue those opportunities, and I think that people didn’t necessarily understand the weight or the toll that was placed on them. In terms of the institution as a whole, I wouldn’t say racist per se, I think that the one thing





that is particular to note is that the IBC’s budget was the highest the first year that I got there, and then as MCDA grew, the MCDA pot didn’t necessarily grow, and so the resources that were afforded to the IBC I think diminished considerably— there wasn’t a lot of money in the first place, but even the little bit of money it did have — diminished considerably over time, even though the fact that the programs and services and the resources that were being offered to students continued to grow. So I think there was a lot of creativity and co-sponsorships trying to do partnerships with student organizations that other people did to make those things happen. I think the institution, it kind of turned a corner and tried to move away from population-specific experiences to the more multicultural experiences, and I think that this wasn’t a realization I think the institution, a structure like UF, where you have student assemblies the first couple weeks of school, where you have leadership positions, houses, and leadership positions, and Blue Key and student government, where your identity is — identity matters, than like, I don’t think there was an understanding of why those things need this in order to allow people the opportunity to succeed, and so my thought process is that the institution needs both, right, so there needs to be spaces that specifically address the needs of under-represented populations to help them grow, thrive, adjust to a predominantly White institution. And part of that experience should also prepare them to continue along their own journey, as far as working with other cultures, be that other people of color, or White students on campus, but it’s not an either-or scenario, and I think that there were leadership at the time who I don’t think fully understood that, and I think that that thought process, from





my end, a least gives you guys a very confusing structure now, and I think that some of that hopefully will be addressed in MCDA, the division of student affairs at the university move forward.

	H:	So…



	C:	I feel like there’s something you want to ask me, but you’re scared to ask. Go ahead and ask the question.

	H:	No, it’s not that, it’s just I… sorry, I just got lost, but… so, were there any faculty or administrators that were particular allies or collaborators with the IBC?

	C:	Sure, so [inaudible 34:40]. So I think we did a really good job, so I’m sure you’ve heard [inaudible 34:48] I think that’s what she was when I was there before — you know remarried, was a student who was involved in — a lot of UF was involved in Black Thursday, ran a program, a transition program on campus. I think a lot of people have tremendous respect and adoration for her, her experiences primarily to the institution. Dr. Michael Bowie, who came to UF as a graduate student, and ended up staying on to run a program in the College of Education. He had a very strategic partnership with the African American Studies Department on campus. I’m trying to think… make sure I don’t leave any people out. But I think the rest of the MCDA staff, I think there are tons of people who I think were committed to the [inaudible 35:56] of Black faculty and staff, tons of people who I think wanted to see the IBC thrive and succeed and were willing to do programs, through resources, to help make that happen.





	H:	So, as you mentioned before, the IBC has transitioned over the years under different departments. Can you tell me about the organizational structure that IBC was under when you were director of the IBC?

	C:	Sure, so when I —



	H:	Did the IBC have autonomy over the organizational structure it was under or?



	C:	Yes and no. So, from my perspective, MCDA was created as an opportunity to create some organizational efficiency, and to have one department with the different underserved populations, to house Gatorship, to do some work in terms of intercultural development. But I think the history and experiences of the groups that worked under MCDA and the resources both physical and financial are different, group to guy, I think at times were like a rallying call that brought different entities under MCDA together, and I think at other times were like … points of contention, so when I started there, Asian Pacific Islander Affairs, APIA, only had a graduate student, whereas the IBC or La Casita had a director and they had a graduate student in addition to that. I think when I started, I think we had like between fifteen and twenty student staff members, and so there was a lot going on, I think as MCDA grew, I think there was tension between how much IBC, cultural specific program is, versus how much work, energy, and effort it took the directors, under the assistant director’s title, like put into creating new intercultural or cultural [inaudible 38:36], like train RA’s, other leaders on campus, type of work. I would say in terms of things that fell under the umbrella of the IBC, I think there was a level of autonomy, but I think that people would question how much time, energy, and effort the director, for example, was putting into growing,





developing the IBC versus how much energy, effort, time you put into growing and developing stuff for like MCDA. So it’s almost like having to wear two hats that are interrelated or having two different jobs that are interrelated but very different.

	H:	Right. So, what was expected in terms of involvement from the ambassadors of the IBC?

	C:	So, in the beginning, when I started, the IBC ambassadors were [inaudible 39:45] embassies, and they reported just to the IBC. So, they ran programs, they helped the center function. They were a huge part of the IBC experience in terms of, when I was there, all their programs except for the Black Female Leadership Conference. Like a student had a hand, was a part of the advisor group or responsible for executing it, they did all the marketing for different programs, they were part of the operations team, and then as the MCDA came into fruition and some of the practices, like the hiring practices for example, became more standardized from a departmental level, some of that autonomy changed. And so there’s operations coordinator that was responsible for training for all the MCDA employees. So while the students were assigned a specific location to work in, they also were a part of MCDA committee that either executed MCDA programs or they were a part of students staff selection and development committee, so they had roles and responsibilities that were department-wide, as well as specific to the location that they had. And so, I think some of the students worked in multiple locations, like they could work in LGBT affairs and work in the IBC, so I think some people’s specific affinity to the spaces they worked at, I think





decreased over time. I think the way it was running for students, they saw themselves more a part of MCDA as a department, and then IBC as the place within MCDA that they worked.

	H:	So, some of the rooms in the IBC were dedicated after individuals. During your time, while you were director, were the rooms named? If so, can you tell me more about them?

	C:	Yeah, so the library was the James Weldon Johnson Library, and it was named after — Johnson was an author, composer, the Negro National Anthem, also a member of Phi Beta Sigma fraternity. And then the student lounge was named after Ama Johnson, who was the senior secretary and really the glue who held it together, and I think that Ms. Johnson, she retired I wanted to say in like [20]08 or [20]09, but has been there for the vast majority of the institute’s history, so the institute is 1972, I want to say — I don’t know when she came out of — I think she came in like the early [19]80s. [Inaudible 43:09] twenty plus years of history and experience working in the building, probably worked with five — probably five directors, so we just thought it was important when she decided to retire, in giving her commitment to the space that we would name the space after her. And then the other rooms weren’t named, but that was something that we had talked about, because the year I left in 2011, and the following year was going to be the IBC’s fortieth anniversary, and so there were some conversations about do we name the large meeting room, for example, after the students who participated in Black Thursday, and then there’s also, I’m sure you may have heard, the IBC





had a Hall of Fame, and so to think about are there other rooms that could be named after people that were in the Hall of Fame.

	H:	So, across universities all over the country, there are Black cultural sectors that have enclosed and rebranded as multicultural sectors over the past few years. Having worked as a director of a Black cultural center, what are, if any, the drawbacks of losing Black cultural centers when universities move towards these models?

	C:	I think I would contend to argue that the function of a multicultural center and a function of a Black cultural center are different. A Black cultural center is there to celebrate, to inform, to encourage people development and growth as it relates and acknowledge Black cultures. And I think that’s most important for Black students or students who come from African descent, and it’s important to non- Black students as well. I also think that, one of the things [inaudible 45:26] to your students say, is I think the physical structure, so I’m really curious to hear what people’s sentiments are now. But the physical structure of that space doesn’t happen in a facility alone, is a demonstration coming from the instruction, is a reflection of an intuition’s commitment, not only to Black students on campus but the presence of Black culture. Most cultural spaces, or most cultural centers, are designed to be places for the multiculturalism, and those two things to me are not the same. They’re both valid, and both important, and both things that students should have the opportunity to experience as part of their collegiate experience, but we know both anecdotally and through research that students who are looking for services or programs from a Black culture may not





necessarily are generally not the same students who are looking to grow in terms of multicultural services and programs. And I think that that is something that I’m hopeful that UF is starting to come to terms with, because I think that’s not something that I think administration has always understood.

	H:	So, during your time as director, did they try and shut down the IBC at any time?



Were they attempting to?



	C:	No. No, so there was no attempt to shut down the IBC. I think one instance – there’s always rumors you hear that they’re going to shut down the IBC, I don’t think that – I don’t think that. I never felt like that was something that was coming to fruition. What I will say is that when the Reitz Union expanded and maybe you can – because you’re a student now right?

	H:	Yes.



	C:	Maybe you can explain it to me, I don’t think I understand. So when they created multicultural spaces, space or spaces, however I said that, was created, I think that there was a thought process that the IBC would not be needed, maybe that’s the right word, which I disagree with, because I think that – again, the space– when I think about spaces in the student commons, again, I still think about them as more multicultural spaces. But I really don’t understand kind of what UF is doing, because their cultural spaces right, Black enrichment center, and other spaces in the union, is that right?

H:   Right, so there’s … I think, I’m not sure if it’s the same, but I do know that there’s a space in the Reitz Union called the Black Enrichment Center and then another space that is like similar to that, called La Salita, instead of La Casita, because





it’s a room in a building, so they call it La Salita instead. So, we have those rooms in the multicultural spaces in the renovated Reitz Union.

	C:	Alright, see that I don’t understand.



	H:	Right now they’re being used as a substitute since both IBC and La Casita have been torn down for renovations.

	C:	So I guess my hope would be that moving forward, that those spaces probably could be renovated to be a true multicultural center, I think that there’s students who are interested in doing multicultural work, and growing in those areas, and I think that the IBC and La Casita and any other population specific space would have the opportunity to exist, maybe relate it to under the same department, but separate from the other spaces. I think they serve different purposes.

	H:	Right. So, was there anything you felt as a director, that you had to compromise, or was there anything you think as that the students that Black students had to compromise while you were director?

	C:	Sure. So I think the biggest challenge for director of a population-specific space is that given a lot of student’s experiences, I think you have to make s conscious choice of when you’re going to serve the needs of the institution and when you’re going to serve the needs of students. I often found those to be different. And so, I think that’s just a consistent battle, to be like, “It’s my job to be an advocate for Black students and multicultural students on campus,” or is it my job to help the institution move forward in a way that it wants to and help get students on board with that, and I think that’s a constant struggle. In terms of Black students in particular, I think the changes in the role over time diluted the students’ ability to





have an advocate that met their specific needs. So if I think about my experience towards the end of my experience, I think I was director of IBC, but I had my hand in just as many MCDA things as I did in IBC things, so I think by nature, I think again, you’re doing two different things. I don’t know if what I’m saying makes sense, but it’s just harder I think to fully represent any of the Black students when that’s not the scope of your work.

	H:	Right. So do you consider the IBC to be historically Black cultural space on campus?

	C:	I don’t know what that means. How would you describe that?



	H:	Just… basically, what do you think is the significance of the Black cultural space and is it comparable to other spaces on campus? Is there any other space on campus that serves that purpose or is able to create a safe space, or do you think that’s really –

	C:	For Black students or for students in general? H:	For students in general, and yeah.

	C:	I mean it’s hard for me to recall, but I think in general, I think that the IBC for students, and I think it’s important to note that the IBC was a home away from home for many Black students, but also for students who are not Black. And so, I think that that place and that space, the culture embodied in that space, the commitment to students and their success is something I think is really hard to articulate, but I think when people step into the space or experience is the space is something that they – something that resonated with them. And I think that those types of spaces, or organizations, different spaces exist – whether it





physical spaces or organizations exist for other students. For some students, that’s campus, for some students that’s just cicerones, for some students that’s hanging out in the game room in the Reitz Union. I think that the IBC is an additional asset to the university that serves a specific population. For students, again, primarily being Black, but not exclusively Black. In terms of Black students, I think that there are organizations, BSU, CaribSA, JAMSA, NPHC organizations, some of the academic based organizations that serves that niche, but I think the IBC is the entity that kind of brings all of those things together, or was the thing that kind of brought those things together, that helped students think about – helped the students and the institution think about what their framework of that experience was more broadly, and to be able to put – help the institution understand the experiences of Black students but also give Black students a connection to the institution that I hope they still have but I’m not sure.

	H:	Do you think that the IBC contributes to Black history in the state of the Florida? C:	I guess so. I mean, I hadn’t really thought about it. I mean sure, but I think more importantly the broader connection for me is the IBC I think is a significant

contributor to the history of UF and tells a critical component in terms of telling the story about the experience historically, the experiences of Black students today, thinking about the lived experiences of Black students today and how they continue a quest for equality. And I think some of those things are true about the state of Florida as well, but also on one hand I think the IBC is critically important and an asset that needs to be preserved at the institution, but I also think it’s sad that … what is this, one hundred and sixty five years almost, into the history of





UF, that’s something that’s still needed based on the experiences of underserved populations on campus.

	H:	So I have one last question for you, and is what do you think is most important to maintain or change when they rebuild the IBC?

	C:	That’s a great question. So when I think about the IBC and why it holds such a special place in my heart, it’s not about the physical things, because as I mentioned to you before, when I first got there, it wasn’t decrepit, but it was a place that had seen better days. But I think what makes the IBC special is I think just the notion of home and being a safe space for students, again from whatever background who would come in there and give them a sense of place on campus and to connect them to people who have figured out how to navigate the institution and to provide opportunities to build on that relationships with other people and connections to alumni, to people that walked the path before them.

Now to be honest with you, I haven’t followed as closely as I probably could have in terms of developments for the new IBC and La Casita, but I think in one of the things that I saw, I’m a little bit concerned I think that there’s an over emphasis on the space in being flashy, and I haven’t heard as much conversation around how the notion of home, how the creation of space and safe space for students, is going to be preserved or maintained. And I think that gives me some pause, because I think on one hand, as we talked about before, having a nice fancy building, I think is amazing, and is representative of the institution’s commitment to this space— I mean to the population, but I also think that if the notion of home





is a notion of the reason why the space exists is lost in that, then I think it will be for naught.

H:  Well, on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, thank you so much for this interview. You really, really gave us a lot of great information that we can use for the documentary. So thank you so much.

C:  No problem. Well, thank you for taking the time and tracking me down, I really appreciate it.





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Megan Sam; October 23, 2020 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, November 2, 2020 Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 24, 2021