AAHP 194; Jordan; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 194 Ellen Jordan

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Caitlin Edwards on October 10, 2011 1 hour, 3 minutes | 31 pages



Abstract: Ellen Jordan grew up in Jonesville, Florida, and moved to Gainesville at the age of fifteen. She talks about the role of her church, Mt. Pleasant, in her life, and about her late husband, who served in the US Army. Mrs. Jordan attended Florida A&M University. She describes the farm she grew up on, and the community in Gainesville, and describes herself as “neutral” about the Civil Rights Movement—neither for nor against. Mrs. Jordan graduated from Lincoln High School. She also describes the barbecue stand she used to run next door to her house, and transitions into memories of the Black businesses that used to be on 5th Avenue in Gainesville.



Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Lincoln High School]





















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 194

Interviewee: Ellen Jordan Interviewer: Caitlin Edwards Date: October 10, 2011



	E:	This is Caitlin Edwards here with Ms. Ellen Jordan on October the 10th at about 9:50 in the morning. Okay, thank you Ms. Jordan, again, for sitting down with me.

	J:	Yes, sure.



	E:	Could you start by telling me a little bit about what it was like growing up?



	J:	Yes, my name is Ellen Jordan, and I came from Jonesville to go to school at Lincoln High School, right here on the corner which is now 7th Avenue. So, what it mean when I came here was Columbia Street. So, this came in my knowledge after I got here that the street would be changing over to its new street.

	E:	To the numbers, right.



	J:	So, then I went to school here for four years, and I graduated. I met a young man in school ahead of me, so, we started dating. And he went to the Army, so when he came back on the furlough, we got married. So, we stayed married forty- something years, and then he went to the Army. He got hurt in the Army. And after he came home he lived about a year or so, and then the Lord took him home. So I've been a widow ever since.

	E:	How old were you when you first came to Gainesville? J:	Fifteen years old.

	E:	Fifteen, and before that you had spent your whole childhood in Jonesville? J:	Yeah, Jonesville. That's where I was born.

	E:	What did your folks do out there?



	J:	Farm. They were farmers, yeah. A big farm, they planted everything. E:	How about your grandparents?





	J:	Well, I didn't know my grandparents. I know my mother's mother. But I didn’t know none of my father's people. Because they were dead way along before I was born.

	E:	How about your mother's mother, do you know what she did for a living?



	J:	Yeah when I met her she was an old lady. So she didn't do anything. Her son and her daughter took care of her. And she lived in this house. But it wasn’t turned this way, it was turned another way on another street, facing another street. But we turned it around this way. And my husband and I did a lot of renovation to it. So we'd upkeep it best we could, so after the Lord took him then I had to do some more work to it. So so far I'm trying to hold what I got.

	E:	What was your experience at Lincoln High School like?



	J:	Oh it was wonderful. By me being a young girl I thought I was it! Yeah, but you know, I did what I could do at age fifteen years old. I did my own cooking. And I did cook for my brother, he was here. Living with, not with me, but living in Gainesville. So he would come to meet them for dinner, supper, not breakfast. But I did all my cooking, cleaning. But my mother taught me all that before I left Jonesville. And I've been back to Jonesville to stay one week.

	E:	Just one week?



	J:	One week, and I'm only eight miles from Jonesville. But I just fell in love here. My aunt that I was living with, she was a very old lady. And I took care of her until the Lord took her home. But my sister came and stayed with us. So my sister took care of me, while I took care of my aunt. So both of them gone now.

	E:	Sounds like your family was very close.





	J:	Yeah, we're very close. I have a brother that's now ninety-five. And we the only two left now in the immediate family. I have a lot of nieces and nephews.

	E:	What was Gainesville like when you first got here, was there anything that really stood out to you or have there been big changes since you first got here?

	J:	Yes, the University of Florida was already there. But it wasn't integrated. So since I was here over a period of years it became integrated. So that was a big change for me to experience. And, a lot of my family has gone to the university, and graduated. Yes. But I didn’t graduate from there, I went to Florida A&M in Tallahassee with my husband, he was taking 'tail-running,' so that's what I took for one year. Then I didn't take anymore because I said, he's going to be the breadwinner, I’ll let him take it. So, anyway, I really enjoyed being in Gainesville. That's why I'm here so long. Because I must have had to like it to stay here this long. From eight miles out.

	E:	Yeah, I was going to ask about the integration. So you came to Gainesville right during that time that the university was starting to become integrated.

	J:	Yeah, it was about a couple years before it was about to be integrated. I don’t remember the date now, the year, but I know I wasn't here long before it was integrated. And then that meant a lot to me, for real.

	E:	Did you notice a change, like, that affected you personally the year before and then afterwards?

	J:	No I was glad that it was, because we all God's people, and we should be integrated all the time. Because we all got the same blood. And all of it’s red. But,





anyway, you know, that's a law. Whatever they want to put in. So, I appreciated that. And I still do.

	E:	Did anything change in your day-to-day, what you did when you woke up to when you went to sleep? Was it different from one year to the other?

	J:	No, I didn't have no problem. Because I lived over here, kind of out from University. And we all went to the football games out there. But I never had any problem with none of the University people, at all. I must tell the truth.

	E:	That's good to hear. What role did the church play in the community and in your life personally?

	J:	Well also when I came here I joined Mt. Pleasant, 1937. And I've been a member there ever since. Now, I have seen a lot of pastors come and go. The most of them dead. But, remembering all the names, I have to look at the paper again.

But I do know that quite a few of them are dead. And when I joined Mt. Pleasant, I joined the usher board. I like to walk, I'm not a good talker. I don't talk too loud and too much, but I don't mind walking and doing things like that in the church.

So after a period of years, then, I became—no it had been a long time when I joined the Stewardess board. And I was the president of the Stewardess board for twenty-two years. And I gave it up last year. But I sit in with the Stewardesses, but I don’t do no performance.

	E:	Ok, and what is your role as the president of that board?



	J:	Oh I had some very good people to work with. We worked as sisters, not brothers. We worked as sisters and they were very good and obedient. They always called me the old lady, so, I acted the old lady. But we had a lot of fun in





preparing the wine for communion for the first Sunday. And the thing was just [inaudible 07:19], so this pastor we got now, Reverend Geraldine McClellan, and she been my pastor for twenty-two years. Yes, and so, I love her. She's very good. I guess you've met her, haven't you? But she's a very good preacher, a very good leader. Yeah, I've really enjoyed her. In fact, yesterday she spoke a sermon, just filled me up.

	E:	Can you tell me a little bit about your husband?



	J:	Yes, he was a veteran. And by being in the Army he went out on maneuver. And he got hurt real bad. So, he was maneuvering to go overseas to fight war. But the Lord fixed it so that he didn't have to go. He was in the hospital, like, twenty- something months. And I went to visit him out in Louisiana, and I stayed with him four months. I stayed in the guest house and he was in the hospital. And I visited him every day. But he didn't know which way I came in and which way I went out. Because he couldn't go with me to the end. But then after we got married we had two children, a boy and a girl. One is a Jr. and my daughter, who got part of my name. She's named Eileen. But that's all we had, two children. And they are grown now. And they have children.

	E:	Are they here in town as well?



	J:	Yes, my daughter, she works with the juvenile justice, with the police force. And my son, he works custodial work and he worked at Ballyhoo. That's what he does now. But coming up, you know, they wasn't working. But they're good children, now, I love them.

	E:	So your husband was injured on base in Louisiana?





	J:	Yes, he was out on maneuver. They was on their way, getting ready to go overseas. They were going within another two weeks, after maneuver was over. But he got hurt the first week he got there. He was riding a motorcycle, he said, and he met a Jeep around the curb and knocked him unconscious. And he was unconscious about three days, maybe four days, because they kept sending me telegrams that he wasn't any better. So his father and I decided to go out there. So we caught the train right here in Waldo and went to Louisiana.

	E:	And which war was he preparing for? J:	World War II.

	E:	You had already talked a little bit about it, but what was your relationship like with the University of Florida?

	J:	Well, I worked out there. I had a job as a maid working in the dormitories out there. Which was fun. And I remember one incident happened. I worked at night, because I had the two children, and time for me to get off, I come down on the elevator. But when I hit the elevator, we came halfway and it stopped. And I was on the elevator by myself. Now this was exciting to me. Then I called on the telephone to the operator and talked with her. And I told her I was between the floors stuck on the elevator, I said, What could be done? She said, Well, I'm downtown and it'll be a little while before I can send someone out. I said, Ma'am you've got to be kidding me, I'm on the elevator here by myself. She was teasing me, but I didn't know that. And after a while I felt the elevator come on down. And I just said, Thank you, Jesus. I'll never get on one no more. [Laughter] But anyway, after that day I didn't ride the elevator by myself anymore. I still won't do





it. I'll walk up the steps first. And at this age I don't walk those steps now. I have to ride the elevator. But it's with somebody. I wait 'til I see someone coming down the hall, if I'm at the elevator by myself I wait for that person to get there and then we go up together. And if they get off the floor before I will, I get off the floor with them [Laughter] That's so funny stupid.

	E:	How long did you work for the university for?



	J:	Oh, I worked there about six years I imagine. [inaudible 11:58] E:	What was your interaction like with the students at the time?

	J:	Oh, they were nice. See I worked with the girls. And they were really nice, I didn't have no problem with none of them. Because I'm a person that'll get along with anybody. See, color don't make no difference to me. I got along with anybody. So that's how my life, I want to live until I go. Because you can't live in this world by yourself. You're going to need somebody, sometime! Yeah, can't talk on that most the time.

	E:	What kind of work did they have you doing at the university? J:	I was doing maid work.

	E:	So, for the dormitories?



	J:	Yeah, yes. So, it was nice. I needed to make some money. I didn’t want to live on the street. So I knew my best bet was to get a job. So now I'm not able to work.

But I do, maybe I shouldn't say that, but I get retirement from my husband. And social security. So that’s tying me over.

	E:	You had mentioned that you guys moved your house, that it was facing another street...





	J:	Yeah, we just had the doors turned around. The doors were facing south, now we got it facing west. That's all.

	E:	And how come?



	J:	Well, I didn't want us to look that way all the time. I can see more facing west. Yeah, but my uncle was living here before he died. So after he died my mother gave me this house. I didn't have to buy it, thank God. So, after my daddy passed she gave me the house. So I've been trying to keep it up after my husband left.

Because when he was here he did everything. So now I'm the husband and the wife. Some days ain't good or easy. But I had to go through with it, still going through with it. But God helping me, too. Can't leave Him out!

	E:	What did your parents grown in Jonesville, as farmers?



	J:	Well, they had corn, peanuts, cotton, greens, potatoes, okra, you name it they did it. And I had to work in it. I had to help them, you know, take a hoe and chop it down, keep the grass out. But I didn't do no heavy work. My brother did all the plowing with the horses and things. There was two girls, my sister and I. But my sister didn't live with us long. She went to Titusville and lived with my aunt. But I grew up out there. When I left I was fifteen.

	E:	What was the community like that your parents lived in?



	J:	Oh it was a nice community, but we didn’t live right up within the main part of Jonesville. We lived more towards Gainesville. Now, we lived out there by the golf course on the Newberry Road. But Jonesville is further out, but it all is the name [inaudible 15:06]. It was nice. I go back, I been out, I went out Friday to





visit my brother. By him being 95 years old, he don't have it like he used to. Neither do I. But he's still holding the farm down.

	E:	So is it operational?



	J:	No, he just, he doesn't farm anymore now. He's got a son that tries to farm. But, he's got cattles on the property that they help with his taxes and things. He's too old to farm now. So when he had hogs, he sold all his hogs, but now he's got the cows. And he's selling cows faster than you can bat your eye. But, anyway, he's doing good, but his health is failing him. 95 years old, health isn't going to be the same, no.

	E:	Do you have any early memories of the Movement here in Gainesville? Or the Civil Rights Movement when it first—

	J:	Well, the Civil Rights Movement, I'll be frank, I don't speak on it much because I never was against it nor for it. I was neutral. But I had to go with the flow, whatever happened. But I never had no ugly words to say to nobody about nothing. Because they didn't confront me with anything. By me being a younger person I guess they got to the old person to talk. So, I'm not against the Civil Rights and, I ain’t for it. But I'm not against it. I'm neutral.

	E:	And when you mean you're not for it, do you mean some of the practices that people were doing?

	J:	Yeah, I don't know. I don't go through that practice at all. I don't like to just walk the street with arms to fight someone. Because that's not the way we're supposed to live. I think we ought to be, as human beings with common sense, to know what we need to do. So I never did walk with the crowd for nothing, no. And





never will. Not at this age. I see it on TV all the time, but I change stations a lot of time. Sometimes it's interesting, but I hate to see them fighting in the street. So, long as they're not hitting me and I'm sitting in the living room I'll be satisfied.

Because I'm for peace. Yeah, that's for me. That's what my whole life is all about. And to help who I can help. That's my life's living [Laughter]

	E:	Can you tell me a little more about Mt. Pleasant when you first got there?



	J:	Oh yes, Mt. Pleasant. We had quite a few members, always had a lot of members. But I know there's some of them moved out to another church. But I still stayed there. I didn't follow the crowd, because, you know, always there's somebody that got something against the pastor. But I never have had nothing against the pastor. Because the pastor is not who I'm going to see when I leave here. See, I'm going to heaven when I leave here. So the pastor's got to do what I've got to do, try to get there, too [Laughter] I hope all that mess isn’t going on. But anyway, my pastor was nice. That's why I'm still a member there. And to 1937 to 2011, how many years that is?

	E:	1937 to 2011? About... math has never been my strong suit. About seventy- three/ seventy-four.

	J:	That's a long time to be in one church, isn't it? Yeah, and I plan to stay there. I don't plan to leave. Pastors may come and pastors go, but see I'm not serving the pastor I'm serving the Lord. And I go there to worship. Yeah, that's what I go there for. And I enjoyed every pastor I had. I was looking over a program yesterday one of my nieces had. And it had the line of pastors that died since I've been here, and I was going to call her and get those names so I could tell you.





But I went to bed last night and I forgot to call her. But I had the years from one year to the other. Reverend McClellan been there like twenty-two years, but she was a superintendent eight of those years. But in between that I had two pastors. But she came back after becoming the superintendent. And they were like five years. But I was under her pastor like twenty-two years, the whole while. And the other preacher was there, time of the years that I don’t have to tell you, but it's been like three to four to five years each pastor was there. And I was there.

Yeah, and I could actually get that date down. That'd be something to put down. Now, we're having our church anniversary next month. A hundred and forty-four years of the church present, at Mt. Pleasant, that's how old it is. And we are having that anniversary, I think it's the second Sunday of next month. And each member is asked to pay the amount of money the years is, a hundred and forty- four dollars. Hope I can have it by then.

	E:	So it sounds like you're probably one of the most senior members of the church.



	J:	Yes, I am. There's about two or three more that I know that’s seniors of the church. All the older ones is dead, that was ahead of me. And they was old when they died too, but see, the Lord is keeping me here for some reason. So I asked him for a hundred. But he's in charge. He do what he want to do. [Laughter]

	E:	It sounds like you like to remove yourself a little bit from the politics. The politics in the church...

	J:	Oh yeah. I’m not for no politics. Period. E:	And the bigger politics, too, it sounds like.





		J:	Yeah, I don't believe in politics. I don't believe in them because it's nothing but a kick and an uproar. No, it's nothing sending you to heaven. It's sending you to hell! Yeah, because it's all about it	nobody agree. One side got this side the

other side got that side, we need to meet in the middle and go forward. That's the way I see it.

	E:	And for you the middle path is through the church?



	J:	Yeah, I feel like I'm in the middle, but I don't take no side of no arguments or nothing like that. Yeah, I don't hold no higher office now because after I turned down the spot of the stewardess, I just usher now once, once when everyone, I usher to the funeral only. But I worshipped every Sunday, back in the years. But now after I gave up stewardess, because I usher the funeral and the fifth Sunday. But the men is working on the fifth Sunday, now. So I only usher when someone dies, and I'm able to go. So, it backing down with me, but as long as I'm able to go, I'm going. And going to do what I can. When I can, and as I'm able. Yeah.

	E:	So you were fifteen when you moved to Gainesville... J:	Yeah.

	E:	How old were you when you met your, then, husband?



J:   Well I married, now, when I was twenty-one years old. So I didn't stay six years, and I was married. Came here fifteen, and I married when I was 21. Yeah, I was very young.

E:  Yeah, and where did you meet him? J:   At school, Lincoln High.

E:   So it was a boys and girls school?





	J:	Yeah, we all boys and girls, yeah. And but he was a grade ahead of me. See, I finished in—he finished in [19]41, I finished in [19]42. And that's when we got married, in [19]42. [Laughter] Yeah, two children.

	E:	Two children, how old were you when you first had your children?



	J:	I was very old, I don't think I need to tell you that. I was very old, but anyway, I was in my late thirties.

	E:	Was there a reason you guys decided to wait?



	J:	No, I just wasn't blessed with no children. And one time when it really did hit me, I had one, then I had another one. And bam, that was it. I guess I got, forty, too old anyway, about forty-two years old. But I was very old when I had them, and I really didn't wanna get old and have no babies. I waited so long I thought I wasn't going to have any. Well I came up with two, now I'm glad I got two. Yeah, yeah.

	E:	It's good to have kids and grandkids around. J:	Yeah, yeah.

	E:	Okay, is there anything that you particularly wanted to talk about today? Any memories that really stand out from your childhood that left a lasting impression?

	J:	Well, I don't have anything particular. Only thing I can say, mostly what I just said, now I don't want to repeat that too much because I done got some of that. But even at that, by me, at the age I am now, I just thank the Lord to be able to take care of myself. Now, I do all of my driving, my cooking, washing, I do everything for Ellen. Lot of folk can't say that this age. And there's a lot of them younger than me can't say it. No, much younger. So, that's what I'm thankful for. Being able to do for myself. And I told my daughter whenever I get so I can't do





for myself, and she has this job she got now, which I don't wanna go into why she got this job, but it's... place me in a nursing home. Because her life got to go on, too. And my son, you know, boys are not like girls. Well, I believe he will come to me and do what he can. But the most parents bet on the daughters. There are good sons in the world, but I don't put my son down at all because, he, he'll do for me, too. Yeah. But I prefer my daughter to take over by me being a woman.

Yeah, yeah.



	E:	When they were growing up, what schools did they go to?



	J:	They went to J.J. Finley and Lincoln High. Yeah, and now my daughter, both of them graduated, well my daughter finished from Florida State. But my son, he finished from Lincoln High. And he had one year in college, but he stopped. After my husband died, see, he was able to get, what do you call it... from the veteran to go to school, allowance, to go to school. Right, well my daughter took advantage of it, but he didn't use all of it.

	E:	Is that the G.I. bill?



	J:	That's it, G.I. bill, uh-huh. So but she finished, she took advantage of all of it.



Cause she did graduate from Florida State. But my boy, he got hard, I reckon he just wanted to do what he wanted to do. Well, he did do three years. Yeah, but he was out in Missouri with my niece. That's where he went to school, out there. He went to Santa Fe here, too. About a year, but that was all, yeah. It's different in boys and girls. Yeah, there different in boys and girls, different in girls and boys. But my daughter is the one that took advantage of everything. Yeah.





	E:	So you’ve mentioned a couple times you have family members in other states, is it mostly in the South?

	J:	Yeah, I have a very far niece that, she lives down in Fayetteville, North Carolina.



But I been chatting with her on the phone ever since she been out of town. Cause she had two boys that I used to take to school. She was teaching at Westwood. And she would bring them to me to get them ready to take them to school. And me and my husband would take them to school every morning. And she'd bring them to me six thirty in the morning. And I'd put them to bed in time and wake them up, and I'd get them dressed, give them a little bite, and then haul them off to school. So she thanked me for that today. Yeah, she's very nice to me. He name is Inez Jackson. Yeah, I got more nieces here, too. But nothing like her. I don't want that part to get in there [Laughter]

	E:	So, the family that is from more northern states in the South... J:	My immediate family, all of them born here.

	E:	Born here?



	J:	But my daughter, my niece’s husband got a job out in Colombia Missouri, and that's where they met. So after they went in Colombia, Kansas City, they been all up in that area. Well, they finally settled down in Fayetteville, North Carolina. And that's where her husband died at. She said she want to be buried there, too. And all her children up there, she got a doctor son and he's in Tennessee. But the other children, one in Fayetteville with her and the other one's in Raleigh, North Carolina. They're not far apart. Yeah, because they say they going to take care of her. But the one in Knoxville, he calls all the time. He sees up out of it on the





phone. But he's an animal doctor. Very good, too. He always going about different ways making speeches. Yeah, he's a big boy! That's what I call him. Yeah, [Laughter]

	E:	So I know you don't like to get involved in politics too much, do you have any thoughts on the current President, Barack Obama?

	J:	I love him, I love him. You know, the reason I love him—for one reason. He is the first Black President we ever had out of all the years we've been the United States. For him to, just to be a President, and a Black one at that, that's progress right there. Cause we have been on the back burner for all the years. You know, you're young but you know about it. Or heard about it. And by him being a Black President, it means so much. But yet he doesn't have the help he actually needs to be a leader. Cause, there's a lot of them against him. Which is not right! If they see it's right that he's speaking to help the economy, they shouldn’t get against it. Because, we in a bad turmoil. You know that. And when the other fellow that had it, when he left, he left it in a mess. So, after this President got here now, he tried to straighten it out but he's having a lot of complications! But that's the part I don't understand. Nobody else would understand it. Just cause, if you help me I'm going to appreciate it. Yeah, you come along and see that I need something to eat, I wouldn't, you wouldn't turn your head. You would say, Take this dollar and get you some food. Money ain't everything! Money not everything. And we can't do a thing without it. Nothing. We can't do nothing without the money. But don't let money take advantage of the people that don't have the money. See? Help the poor! That's when God will help you. Yeah. Cause a lot of the rich don't think





there's a God. How they got here? They don't think! Yet, I'm being silent towards it. Because one voice is not enough. It take a lot of voices to change this. Now if he run for another year of President, I'm going to vote for him. But he's got to use his own mind. And do what he knows is best. Cause if fire burn you one time, it'll burn you again. That's right! So, if you just put prayers into it, everything will get different in the world. But see, if you don't pray, so just want to do things because you're rich, don't mean nothing because God can take it from you in five minutes. By taking it from them, he'll take you out. You won't have that money, you'll be in the ground. But a lot of them not thinking that way. But, I hope they'll work it out. I'm praying every day that I can to see it change into the right way. There's a lot of poor people in the world, White and Black, lot of poor people in the world. And everybody ain't rich. [Inaudible 33:28] They're the ones talking about cutting off the social security. Now you know something’s going to happen then. Cause a lot of Black and White people living off of social security. Now what they going to do if they take social security from them? What they going to do? There'll be a lot of people that fall out on the street because they can't survive. And they're not going to come by and give us a dollar or dime or get nothing, no water, no bread. If they just stop and think, that they're being blessed, bless somebody else. And the life will be long, long, longer. But it's all in God's hands. He going to change it after a while. Obama may not be there, but God going to change it. So, I hope I'll be living to see it. But I believe in helping each other. I'm a poor person. But I do what I can to help somebody that's poorer than me. Yeah, that's where I get my blessings from. I don't want to preach now. [Laughter]





	E:	Go ahead! Preach all you'd like.



	J:	But that's just my feeling towards the White House today, just, they're not together. They seem they're getting wider and wider apart. For no reason at all.

	E:	That's what I was going to ask. There's obviously resistance, with Barack Obama right now. And I'm wondering, do you think that it’s the normal type of resistance that usually goes on in our politics? Or is there something extra there?

	J:	Well, to me it would be extra because all the other Presidents was White. And, the last one that left, he was there eight years. And when 'Bama came in, it was already tore up. And the one that fall, the side they're on now, knew it was tore up. But what could 'Bama do when he first get it there? Nothing! He had to run and borrow the money to get the things straightened out. And that, they didn't have a feeling about that. But even at that, most of the money is paid back. He trying to do the right thing. But he need help. He can't run it by his self. And they don’t cooperate it will never get right. It's going to be up and down until another White person get it. And then we'll see what that happen. Now, [inaudible 35:55], but I know he out there right now for the jobs thing. But now, if he run again and do win it, I hope it'll be better than it is now. And I know he does, too. Cause when he first came he didn't have no grey hair. He got grey hair now. You noticed, it's thicker then. You see grey hair all over his head. Well, when he came he had a pretty black hair. But now it's like mine, white. I got grey hair. But, even at that, problems will take advantage of you. Yeah, it'll slow you down. So I'm praying for him though. If he give it up, the next person that get it, I'll pray for them. All I want is for things to go right. Don't look out for the rich, and down the





poor. Cause a lot of us poor. All colors. And I do know if they take that social security, now there's going to be a lot of people getting killed. I believe that. I might be wrong. I hope they don't kill me. Cause I didn’t change it. But you know when they go to shooting, you don't know who's going to get shot. So it's just getting that serious. These poor people can't stand to lose their social security. Ain't got nothing else to survive on. I don't know why they can't think that way.

Everybody not rich!



	E:	President Obama called it, we have a deficit of compassion in this country.



	J:	Yeah, we have. We have a lot of that. But it just takes God to straighten it. That's the only one that's going to straighten that. 'Bama can't straighten it. And all his cohorts can't straighten it. It's going to take the Lord. He's going to have to straighten that for him. And, he may straighten it a different way then they expect. So when it gets straightened they may not even be on the scene. But he's going to straighten it one day. I believe he's getting tired of it now. But you can't tell.

You will tell, when, look at all those tornados and things. That's a warning right there for us. It's not here in Florida. Cause we're halfway right. Halfway right. But Lord, that mess is up there where they are. All out West. Yeah. I know there's quite a few rich people in Florida, but they're not acting it. And whenever someone votes you don't know who they're voting for. But the one that win, you don't know who all put them in. So, but politics going to be politics as long as there'll be a world. Right.

	E:	Do you see a connection between the Civil Rights Movement and Barack Obama's election?





	J:	Do I get what?



	E:	Do you see a connection, do you think that the election of Barack Obama would have been possible without the Movement?

	J:	Oh yeah, I believe so. Cause he won the election, you saw the people that voted for him. If not, they acted like it. And I believe the vote that counted. Now when he was elected, do you know folk from far and near voted for him. Well, they're the one put him in. Now since he got in, this where the treatment come in, see.

Cause all the republicans that knew he won, knew that he was going to be the President. Well, the treatment came in after he got in the chair. There shouldn't have been no difference. Shouldn't have been, no. Color don't mean nothing. We got the same color blood. Red! I ain't seen no red blood and black blood yet. But even at that, it's in your mind. And then, that money talks for them. Yeah. And, I just feel sorry for, and I pray for the rich people because one day I hope to be rich before I leave here. But I'll know how to treat people! That's the thing, treating the fellow man. Treat him right! That's when God'll bless you. Cause all your blessings are coming from the Lord anyway. You get some help. Your mom and daddy may die and leave you some money. But it's all coming from the Lord. Cause he blessed them. And you're blessed after they're gone. They're not thinking. That money got them... wish I had some of it! [Laughter] I could use some today. But I would treat people right. And coming down to voting, that's one thing you don't know who's voting for who. But the votes will win. That's what won for Obama, yeah. And they know he won, so why treat him any different than





they treat the White man? The word he speak the same they would have spoken a long time ago. Let's change that subject, cause I don’t wanna…

	E:	[Laughter] Okay, no more politics. Can we go back a little bit to when you first got to Gainesville?

	J:	When I first got where?



	E:	Can we go back to when you first got to Gainesville, when you were fifteen. How has the city changed since then, besides just the buildings. Have you seen any...

	J:	Well, I think. As far as the city changing… I haven't seen too much of different in the getting along with people. Because, from my standpoint, when I was working, everything was fine. I stopped work because of my age and my back bothering me a lot. But as far as the head people in Gainesville, they treated me, far as I'm concerned, the Black people good. Now some of them had a different view of what I'm saying. But, I just don't, I don't see nothing where they was over- average, out of law. No. Because I'm always taking care of myself. And you worry about somebody else, then you're leaving your work undone. And if you treat people right, everything will run smooth. Everything will go smooth. So, but the head people here, I like every one of them and don't know them. I don't know them. Know some of them. But I have no fault with none of them. I vote every year. But I vote for who I want to vote for. And most of them is White people because there ain't too many Black ones running. So you got to vote for the White one, cause there’s one or two Black ones out there want to run. That's our problem. We have the knowledge, but we sit back, [inaudible 43:04]. And that's when we find out the treatment from them then. That's what I've found out. I have





worked with a lot of White and Black, and I go on with near all of them. Yeah. I ain’t had no problem with none of them on the job that I've worked. I use to work at Tachachale, you know with little insane children. But the folk that worked there had good sense like me. We got along good.

	E:	I have an aunt that's lived there her whole life. J:	Sure enough?

	E:	She's Anne. Anne Edwards. J:	Oh yeah? She still out there? E:	She's still there.

	J:	How old is she?



	E:	She's in her sixties, she's been there her whole life. J:	Sure enough? Sure enough!

	E:	I'm actually named after her. J:	Oh, Anne?

	E:	Well, that's my middle name, is Anne.



	J:	Oh okay, all right! Yeah I worked out there about four years. I really would have retired if I had known, like I do know, but now some of these things I'm not going to put on this, but I worked there morning shift from six thirty til two thirty. Oh, about two years. Then I wanted to, I didn't want to change. But the supervisor changed me to night shift. Once I got on night shift I liked it, cause I'm home all day. And, but I didn't want to be changed. She wanted to change me to the evening shift, and I didn't want that. So I quit. But if I had known I'd been getting three checks instead of two, [Laughter] But anyway when I left Tachachale, it





was summer then, I got a job at Seasonal Book, and I was the head cook out there. Now, I enjoyed that. Yeah, I really did. But my husband was here, sick. You know, with his leg. He had is knee cap knocked off, his left knee, his wrist broken, on the left arm. He was in bad shape. I don't talk about that much either. But anyway, then he would be home. But me and the supervisor got into it one morning. She was from on the other side of Camp Blanding, over in that area.

Now, we was in a class two weeks together, we got along good. But we got out here, then she, yelled at me one morning. You know, and I wore glasses, I took my glasses off, I wanted her to see that I'm Black and you're White, but we're grown people. And I took my glasses off and I said, "Repeat that again." Oh but she wouldn't repeat it! Cause she would have been on the store, and I'd have been in jail. I said, "Lord, I thank you." I came home and told my husband. And he was laying in the bed with his leg up. I said, Harold, I'm gonna quit this after. He said, What for, what reason? And I said, Supervisor cause she yelled at me... for no reason. And I said, I didn't like that! But I had a business over here, my barbeque business. We had that. I said, I'm coming home to work for myself. He said to me, Ellen, I'm not able to help you. Do what you want to do. I hit the clock at two thirty, I told them I was going to the bathroom. I left there with the apron on, my cap, and went on out that door and hit the clock, got in my car and came home. Two thirty! I ain’t been back there no more since. Eleven o'clock the next morning I opened up my door, cause I was opening it up when I get off work, five o'clock, I opened up eleven o'clock that next morning. And I'd work there until I'd close it up. Work for myself! I said, If I can't get along there I can get along here.





I'm my own boss. And she and I got along like two peas in a hurl, I don't know what happened. I guess she had a bad night, sometime we have them. You know, and I was going to overlook it. But you know, it was very cold the rest of that day. And I went back the next day, I couldn't stand the coldness. What she would tell me to do, like she was snapping at me, you know. And you don't talk to a dog like that. And that's the only reason I left Sears, I would has stayed there. But, you know, I don't have to be treated like a dog, cause I'm not a dog. And I am going to work for Ellen! And that's what I did. And did good. Barbeque stand.

	E:	Barbeque stand, right out here?



	J:	Right next door! Next door, the building next door that's where I worked. E:	How long did you keep that running?

	J:	Oh, Lord. About fifteen, twenty year.



	E:	Wow. What kind of things would you cook?



	J:	We had barbeque ribs, chicken, and um, we had um, that was most of the sandwich. We had meat we had then, fried fish on Fridays. Everybody like fish on Fridays. And, that's where we made our money. And, we had so many people come in—and don't let it be a football game—now it was integration at that time. It wasn't integration, cause the Blacks would go by the Citizen's Field to the football game. But they all would come in the shop. I called it “The Shop,” and my business had standing room only. I'm telling you. And I, even at that, I thank God for the folks that patronized us. Cause they didn't have to me. They could have gone to the White that they do now. But they came over here to The Shop, and I had a piccolo, we had a pool table. I shot pool, myself. And we just had a good





time. Yeah, I enjoyed it myself. And then after, you know, I closed the shop, that's when he started getting sick a little bit more than used to be. Then he died after then. Sitting right here in the living room, right here in the chair. I did not know he was that sick. I knew he was ailing a lot. But he was a person never to grunt and holler and all that kind of stuff. And I had fixed him his breakfast and gave it to him, there's a stand so he can eat his breakfast. And I went back in the kitchen to get the coffee for him, and my little goddaughter was here that morning, she didn't go to school, she was sick. And she said, Oh! When I got back round here, I looked back and she was looking over at him. So I just looked around like that, cause this here would not be from seeing. And his head was over his shoulder, way back over his shoulder. I never did get the coffee. I ran back over, took his head and I said, Harold, don't leave me now! Not knowing, he was passing at that time. And then my son was here, and I called him and he came in a got his pulse he say, Mama, I don't feel no pulse. And I told a friend, I said, Take this phone and call the rescue service. So he went called, but he didn't know my address so I had to give them my address. And they came, they took him out the chair and laid him on the floor. Then they went to pumping, you know. And the other one said, Go get the stretcher. And I said, Take him to the V.A. And they said, Ma'am, I'm sorry I can't pass no hospital, it's against the law. So we have to stop to the first one we get to, that was Alachua General. And I knew that was, if they took him to the V.A. I ain’t had no bill. So I was looking out for that part. Not knowing—to me he was dead. But they didn't tell me he was dead. But I followed them to the hospital, any other time I would have rode in the ambulance with him.





I just was numb. My daughter carried me out to the hospital. When I got in there, I wanted to go to the metal door to go back where he was, and they stopped me. And they said, The doctor'll come talk to me in a minute. Well I knew he was gone before we left, but didn't want to relieve myself. And, so, when the doctor came he called me. Carried me to a little room. And he knelt down on the floor, put his hands on my knee, he said, Ms. Jordan, I want to tell you, your husband's gone, we couldn't revive him. That's all I remember for about thirty minutes. And then I told my little goddaughter to call my brother. So he came over. But by the time the hospital was full of my friends. And then, he was gone. They said. He was gone before that. I knew he was gone. But I didn't want to believe it, myself. But, anyway, he died. And, I came back home. I sat there in his chair. His chair, he always sits in the chair in the corner there. I sat in his chair and then the doctor would come, Dr. Banks was down there then, brought the car, all of them come down here. They couldn't believe he'd died, he was dead just that quick.

They said, Was he sick? I said, well yeah he was sick a long time, but he never was confined to no bed. I said, but I said, now I said, but I'll tell you the truth, if he was sick he didn't tell me. I said, but I, his heart stopped beating. I said, you know that that means. I was getting real pissed off they asked me about all the questions. I didn't know he was sick, if he was sick, I didn't tell them. They wasn’t his doctor, but I just was being nice. I said, Well, his heart stopped beating and the doctor said he was gone. They said, Ellen, I can't believe that, then the house was full of people. The news got out so fast. But anyway, the Lord brought me through it. But I'll never forget him. Yeah. I, I really don’t do much talking, I think





about it all the time. But for me to talk about it then I would get, I get full a lot. So, I did good this morning to talk to you about it. Yeah, cause it's old. But you never forget it. Are you married?

E:   No. I'm twenty-three, so—



	J:	Oh, you're young! See, I was married I was twenty-one. Yet you're twenty-three and ain’t thinking about marriage.

E:   Not even close.



	J:	I don’t blame you honey, I don’t blame you. E:	Times are different now.

	J:	Yeah, it's a lot. Yeah. Well, but. Get married before you get too old. Have some children while you're young. Cause I was in my late thirties and I was old. I call that old. Yeah. And um, but I didn't want no children! All I asked was a good time. I didn't want no children. But when I got my children though, I settled down. I’m glad, that was a turning point for me. For my husband and I was going people.

We liked to party. But anyway, we did it mostly together. Sometime he would walk off, I would walk off different ways, but we went back up. Yeah.

	E:	What kind of things did you guys do for fun around town?



	J:	Well, Seminary Street, 5th Avenue was Seminary Street at that time. And that's where all the Black people would hang out at. That’s when, when I was going to school, cause 7th Avenue was Colombia Street. Now it led on to be 7th Avenue. 5th Avenue was Seminary Street, now its 5th Avenue, but back that time it was Seminary Street. So all the Black would meet up on Seminary Street, to the little juke place down there. They'd have piccolo and drink beer and stuff. And we





would go in there and party. And then, that's like weekend, now. Nighttime, we didn't hang out too much at night. But weekend that's where we would meet up there to party. Sunday, you find me going to church. Sunday morning, and I don't hardly miss church no Sunday unless I'm sick. Or out of town. But other than that, 5th Avenue ran from 13th Street back down here by Mt. Carmel church. And that's the room that we had. We couldn't go on University Avenue. We could get around back. See, the Whites didn't care nothing about us. No, they didn't care nothing about us. It was so, there's big change in life now. You know, and Martin Luther King, President Kennedy, those are the two people that integrated everything. Cause you know, all Black were to get on the back of the bus, you know that. Better not sit up to the front, you get put off the bus. And that was ugly. We all was human beings at that time. After integration we're still human beings, but look how we were treated. It's a big difference in life now. I don't think the Black would back down now. Because they done come too far from where they at then. And I think it's better to be together, anyway. Make one. Instead of making one over here and one over there. So that's two of them already, but they're separated. We get together, life would be much better for all of us. But you pulling one way and I pull another way, I don't like that.

	E:	So I know we're more together now than we used to be.



	J:	Oh yeah, we are more. But I'll tell you where I give the credit to. Martin Luther King and President Kennedy. That's who I give the credit to for the integration, yeah. If it wasn't for them we'd probably be separated right now. Yeah, we couldn't go to the same bathroom. And the coming in the back. I worked for a





lady, but I had to go in the back door to clean up the whole house. But I'd go out the front to sweep it off! But I couldn't come in the front. That was ugly. But I wanted that dollar. I had to work. Now, I wouldn't go to an old White woman, I ain’t going in the back door. I wouldn't work that day, I wouldn't work for her.

Because now, we was humans then, we're still human now. Look at the difference since integration. And we're still the same color, right? The same color. But all we really need in our life is God! And he would turn everything around, and straighten it out! That's what we need. But, anyway, I didn't mean to cry. I've cried more days than this one.

	E:	It's a lot of life to look back on, and think about, a lot of feelings, memories. I hope one day I'll be able to look back at eighty-nine and have such a full experience to pull from.

	J:	Yeah, and when they get real old I think you can forget, but if you go to talking it'll come back to you. Yeah, a lot of people senile, they can't remember a lot of things. I was at a funeral Saturday and the mother's kind of retarded. And not retarded, she has that Alzheimer's. And she just was carrying on over her son.

But she didn't realize too much of notion, on and off. I asked the Lord, don't ever let me live that long. If I get like that I want to be gone. Take me out of the world, because you don't know, you can't remember the things that you should remember. And during that age you're coming along. See, now, nothing I had old as I am. That's why I'm thankful for, the age I am and the people that are younger than me can't do half the things I do now. And half of them in jail, half of them dead. And then, we're in the street doping up the sales and I don't care for that





life. And as you get older, your mind will try—all that changes a little bit. Not just continue doing the things you shouldn’t do. Now when I said I was old, I'm still, but you know what I do when I get like that? I stand like—let me show you, I don't want you to miss this here [Laughter] I sit a good while like this. If I had to get up, see how my legs apart? I get up like that. I pull my blouse down, all the way down. You know what I'm doing? Getting energy to move off. Cause when I move off I can go. [Laughter] One of my friends calls me and tells me all the time, You not old. And I'm a diabetic, and she says, You're not a diabetic, cause you eat everything you want to eat. I said, well I got common sense. I know if I'm empty, I know when I'm full. I said, you take the food that I should have before me, that's what I'm going to eat. But if I eat the things that I should have, I'm not happy. I'm empty, and I'm sick. I don't be sick when I eat rice and stuff. I'll be sick if I don't eat. Diabetic, now the doctor tell me to get on a diet and I told him, I don't know nothing about no diet, sir. Don't know nothing about no diet. But I take the paper and bring it home. See, I don't act a fool now. I know right from wrong. When you go to the doctor you do as they say. There. [Laughter] But when you come home, you know. Yesterday I made me some dressing, turkey, and all that stuff. Rice. I eat, I was full as a tick. Yeah.

	E:	Do you still enjoy cooking?



	J:	Yeah, I do all my cooking. Sometime I go get me some barbeque. Some Fat Boys somewhere. But, I don't eat out much. Now I like Cedar River. I'll go there, when I do go to eat that's where I go at. I like the shrimps. When I go there they bring me the menu, I push it aside, I know what I want. But they'll be in there,





Why didn’t you look at the menu? I said, I know what I want. I want shrimp, baked potatoes, coleslaw. And a glass of water. I don't know how to drink that tea. And then when they come, they better be looking in the book. I say, You make your order. I didn't come here to be all day. I know what you're going to eat before you leave home. But a lot of them laugh at me because I like to talk funny and have fun, you know. Yeah, but this life has made that so. Yeah, yeah. Well, I'm glad I'm not going to appear in person to church on the thing now. Now I do a lot of talking and walking, but I don't talk before a crowd of people. I've been bashful that way all my days. So, I can’t tell you now. But I'll talk to people anywhere, you know, around the table, anywhere like that. But for me to stand up in the pulpit and talk, no.

	E:	Is there anything else you want to, kind of, add before we finish up?



	J:	Well, no I don't have anything right now that I could say it. This is the only time we're going to do this so, I think this'll be the end [Laughter]

	E:	Okay, all right. Well, thank you so much Ms. Jordan. J:	You're welcome, dear.

[End of interview]





	Audit edited by:	Holland Hall, May 23, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019