AAHP 712; Harrison; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 712 William Harrison 8-4-2019

Interviewed by Omar Sanchez, Amanda Baret, And Alwin Hopf on August 4, 2019 32 minutes | 15 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Vietnam veteran William Harrison recalls his life as a truck driver, construction worker, and infantryman for students with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Harrison was born in Jefferson County, Florida, as one of three children. Harrison is a father to three daughters, grandfather to two grandchildren, and a husband to his wife of forty-three years. While taking classes in criminology at Tallahassee Community College, Harrison was drafted into the Army. He was first sent to Fort Benning, Georgia, for basic training before completing advanced training at Fort McClellan, Alabama. After a brief pit stop in Thailand, Harrison met up with his platoon in Vietnam. While in Vietnam, Harrison primarily conducted ground surveillance, taking four-day trips into the jungle to identify potential threats from the North Vietnamese Army. After a year in Vietnam, he returned to the States, stationed at Fort Sill, Oklahoma before joining the reserves. After his discharge, Harrison began working in construction before finding work as a truck driver. During this time, Harrison also met his wife of over four decades, who became the mother of his three daughters. He reflects that his time in the military made him more politically active, remembering that before his service he had never registered to vote. He remains involved in the Monticello chapter of VFW, attending monthly meetings and other events and providing resources for fellow combat veterans.





Keywords: [Monticello, Florida, Jefferson County, VFW, Vietnam veteran, labor, truck driver, family, military]



AAHP 712

Interviewee: William Harrison

Interviewer: Omar Sanchez, Amanda Baret, Alwin Hopf Date: August 4, 2019



	S:	Hey I’m Omar Sanchez with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program, we’re in— what city is this?

	H:	Monticello.



	S:	Monticello, Florida. I with Alwin- B:	Amanda Baret.

	S:	And we’re interviewing- H:	William Harrison.

	S:	Okay so we can start. So can you tell me a little bit about your background like can you tell me about like your occupation, your former occupation, your occupation right now, how you are, where you were born, that stuff.

	H:	Oh okay well I was— well right now I’m retired. I retired after thirty years, I was working with Tri-Eagle Sales. I was a truck driver and before that I worked with Borden Dairy for about eight years before they closed. I’m from Tallahassee and before that I was doing construction work but after Borden Dairy I went into the Army, served two years, one year in Vietnam and one in the states.

	S:	So I want to get a little more background so could you tell about like your parents and like where you grew up?

	H:	Oh well I was born right here in Jefferson County and my mother’s name was Elebe, my father’s name was George. I have one— well I had one brother, he passed on. I got one sister, it was three of us, two boys and one girl. My sister lives in St. Petersburg and I live in Tallahassee. I have three daughters, two grandkids, and I’m married, forty-three years, to the same woman. I think I made





a great choice because you know we get along good, we both you know. She’s still working but I retired. March of this year was our three years. When I went in the Army, I was drafted, I didn’t have a choice. Back then it was you know sending you a letter saying that you know we had to go to Jacksonville to be examined, then they send you back home and then you get another letter like Mr. Nelson said you know welcome, that mean you weren’t coming back home so like I said, I did my basic in Fort Benning, Georgia. I left there, I went to Fort McClellan, Alabama where I did my advanced training and after I left there I got a letter saying I will depart to Vietnam. We had to go through San Francisco for— you know after you left home they gave you a little leave and you had to be at California the same day so we went out there and from there we stayed a couple of days and they put you on a plane and you flew from there. We made a stop in the way. One in Thailand, I bet, I think before we got to Vietnam and from there we did a little more training and you got you know— how should I say it? You were trained more— we had back then, we trained with all that basic training we trained on the M-14 or the rifle after we went to Vietnam we got the M-16, that was the more updated rifle you know semi-automatic, automatic so we were trained on that and we got transferred to the company. I got to the company and we was- that guy flew us out on helicopters. Turned out to be we were moving to Vietnam from one place to another cause you know with the terrain and things we couldn’t get vehicles where they wanted you to go so they had to travel on helicopters and we got there and as soon as we got to the company and the helicopter left we was moving out then we got here and that was a scary thing for





somebody to be shooting at you know for the first time and you don’t know where they are and you know what’s going on and whether you’re gonna make it out or not but we did you know we made it out so. We broke up into platoons you know we didn’t travel with the whole company we had you know this platoon was going this way this would go another like four platoon to a company. We’ve had- we were I say lucky because we wasn’t real— our commander wasn’t real gun ho you know he wasn’t you know go out and just aggressive you know that steady steady steady look. We would go out you know we would make sweeps of the area and come back you know. We would have to like Mr. Nelson said we had our backpacks you know we had to have life. We got four days ration supply and all that you had to take on your back. You had the ammo, your water, your- you had to carry machine gun ammo, your ammo, you had these steel pots, the helmet, you had you know your water so if you got hit or something that pot was supposed to you know sort of deflect the bullet rather than you having on a baseball cap like this. We was out there you know at night, we were set up we had trip flares. We had clay mold mines, we were set up to if the enemy got close these trip flares were like a road side flare. You know what could happen, we could set them up with a thin wire you know run it close and if that somebody come through and hit that wire it would automatically go off you know and you had your clay mold, something like a boomerang. You face outward, if it go off it would spread out rather than go straight you know each night you had to dig fox holes and we had a little poncho and you could make like a one man hooch or you can get with your buddy and they had it where you could snap them together





and make like a regular little tent like. But a lot of times you know you slept my yourself you know put it up and like he said during the monsoon season you got wet, you slept wet, and at night by your body temperature it would dry you out you know the next day you get back wet and just back and forth. On the way we would get a bath you know if we come across a stream or something. You had so many guys you know that go in and some be on the lookout you know posing like guards. It was all, all in all and I stayed over there a year and I came back I was stationed at Fort Sill, Oklahoma and I stayed there. They tried to get me to reenlist but I figured if I reenlist I was going, they gone put me back over in Vietnam so I said no. They say they were sending me to OCS but I didn’t want to take that chance to go back over there you know I made it out one time so I thank God for that.

	S:	What is OCS?



	H:	Officer candidate school. S:	Oh okay.

	H:	When I came out I was a SPEC 4 when I came from Vietnam, now thank God I joined the reserve I stayed in there a couple of years and I made Sergeant E-5.

	B:	Yes I do have a question, what was like kind of the career that you had after leaving the military?

	H:	What kind of career?



	B:	Yes like what did you do? Like I’m trying to think like how was your mindset, at what state were you in when you had to come back home?





	H:	Well you really you wanted to get out but then you realize that you get back home and you didn’t have a job to go to. You had to start all over again you know so like I said I did construction work a while and then as time went by you know different things open up. I got on with driving trucks, back then all you had to do was have more or less- with a chauffeur license what they would call it back then but now they call it a CDL, a commercial driver license but when they bought the CDL and I got grandfathered in because I already had the chauffeur license so I just automatically you know transferred over.

	B:	Did the government help you like with any employment opportunities or help you get adjusted back to the was it the— there’s a word, I forgot the word but like back— did the government help you transition back or help you find any employment or you just they sent you home and that was it?

	H:	No, that was it, they didn’t help. B:	Okay.

	S:	Did you want to be- like where were you gonna go if you didn’t get drafted like what was your plan at that point before?

	H:	[inaudible at 10:35]



	S:	Like if you didn’t get drafted what would you be doing?



	H:	Oh I don’t know I had started going to a commu- a TCC, Tallahassee Community College and I was taking up, I said law enforcement because I was taking some criminology classes and all of that. Maybe I might have went back you know finished up with that but I didn’t finish with that.





	A:	Do you think that your time in the military like the experiences you made helped you later on in your life?

	H:	Yeah, I would say so, yeah. Really I got to travel you know places I’d never probably would’ve travelled before you know met people you wouldn’t normally meet you know day in and day out.

	S:	So I have a question about like when you were in your time service, were the people around you like family to you or were they- what were they like? Just comrades or?

	H:	Yeah they was more like family. So of your— I mean you know guys you became adopted to them you know you counted on each other for survival you know you couldn’t be out there by yourself. I had to look out for you and you look out for me. We covered each other.

	S:	Did you face any hardships while you were in the military like any discrimination or anything?

	H:	No.



	S:	Okay.



	B:	Do you still keep in contact with some of the people that you were with in the military?

	H:	No, there were a couple of guys I used to write with but you know eventually we just-

	B:	Faded off.



	H:	Yeah.





	S:	I wanted to ask you about your wife because you seemed pretty passionate about that, when did you meet her?

	H:	Well like I said, I was born right here in Jefferson County, she was too so we went to the same school. I was in a grade higher than she was you know so after I graduated and she finally graduated you know we— my uncle had a little nightclub across town over there and we was- I was in there one night and she came in and you know we started talking and she gave me her phone number and I called you know calling. We started dating, we used to well- I was working in Tallahassee but I would come home every weekend down here and she stayed in a little place called walking. It’s not a town it’s just a little name more or less you know. She would stay up on Friday and I would pick her up from work and we would go to the wrestling. Back then wrestling was a hot number so we would go to the wrestling match and after that I would take her home and I’ll keep on home and we did it back and forth so we finally you know, I proposed and we got married and we have like I said, three daughters. Yeah.

	S:	Is that before or after you got drafted that you got married?



	H:	After I came out of the Army we got married. I went in and I wasn’t married or anything.

	B:	I do have a question, what did being in the military teach you about yourself? H:	Being in America?

	B:	In the military.





	H:	Oh military okay. Well obedience you know they expressed that by being obedient. You look out for each other you don’t just get out there and just be on your own. You got to you know like a buddy buddy system.

	S:	So you are proud serve the— are you proud to serve? H:	Yeah.

	S:	Does it mean a lot to you?



	H:	Yeah, I think about it sometimes like he was asking me what would I be doing if I didn’t go in and it’s sort of hard to say it but I learned quite a bit by being in there.

	S:	My other question is did being in the military give you a different perspective on politics and government than you had before serving? Did it change after you served? Again if you bring in like current issues right now does it- are your perspectives still different? Are they the same?

	H:	Well I guess about the same ‘cause before I went in the military I wasn’t registered to vote I was just out there but after I came out I registered up where I could vote you know and that’s one way of expressing you know your feeling rather than I’m complaining to you about John Doe is not you know he didn’t send that, he don’t want to do this, he just talk about this and you know but when you vote you more or less have a right to put in office who you want. Not that they would get it but you could say you voted for them.

	A:	So you became a bit more active involved in politics? H:	Yeah.

	S:	Did you do any social justice like protesting, sit-ins or anything? H:	No.





	S:	No.



	H:	I must say though I never did drink while I was in there. In the service, I tried it but I couldn’t get used to that you know the beer I couldn’t get used to that little— how should I say? Bitterish taste to it. I tried it but I couldn’t. And I didn’t smoke and a lot of the guys you know they were smoking marijuana and all that but I figured if I went in one way, I want to come out the same way. But I didn’t smoke, I didn’t drink, I didn’t you know that wasn’t my thing. I guess that way I retired from— I used to drive for Tri-Eagle but you would probably know it as Budweiser. Like I said, I drove for them for thirty years and they would like give you every so often, a special event, they’d give you a case of beer and I’d give it to somebody else. When I was in Vietnam they would send us sometimes beer and soda and I’d trade my beer for soda with the other guys. Like I said I never could get used to the hang of that little bitterish taste to it. Yeah.

	A:	And do you come like to this veteran’s community? Are you still very much engaged like do you come here every weekend for example?

	H:	We come once a month usually on the first Sunday like about five o clock you know we’ll meet here on five o clock in the afternoon till about seven or so. I also visit the vet’s center in Tallahassee you know we got our little group, majority of them are Vietnam veterans. We got one desert storm. We come in every other Tuesday and meet and we got counselors if you have any problems or anything you can talk it over with them or if you need to have a one on one conversation with them you can schedule an appointment.





	S:	So how important is it to have that kind of resource for you like that community and like the how you have the counseling and stuff?

	H:	Well it varies cause usually when we get together— how should I say it? If I say something, they more or less know where I’m coming from or what I’m talking about. I would tell you something, you would look at it in a different perspective but each one we know if you got problems we hear it out and we discuss it among ourselves like I said, we got a counselor and she’s very good. She help us with different, you know, if you having a situation or a problem, a family problem or whatever you can discuss it there and you feel safe ‘cause you know it’s not going anywhere. What you say in that particular room stays in that room. You don’t have to worry about anybody laughing at you about maybe you crazy, you have- before they had this PTSD they used to call it shell shock. You would hear people say “He’s shell shocked,” but then they’re classified it as PTSD. So like I said, we get together and the guys we laugh and just have a good time you know you feel good when you come out.

	S:	That’s good to have people to actually understand, we’ll never understand what you’ve been through.

	H:	You like I said, you can say things about your different situation or problem and you don’t have to worry about anybody classifying you as crazy. They understand where you’re coming form or whatever.

	S:	Sorry so we were talking about politics and stuff, how did you feel like when Obama got elected?

	H:	I felt great, not that he is Black but I think he did an outstanding job.





	S:	What about the current administration?



	H:	Too much tweeting going on. I’m the kind of person if I got something to say I text you know but if I got something to say to you Ima come out you know and say “Ladadada you know XYZ.” I’m not gonna sit down and send you a message over your phone. I wanna look at you face to face to see the expression on your face when I tell you certain things.

S:  You were talking about earlier how it’s important to vote and stuff and I don’t think people like our age usually don’t understand that. Can you explain like elaborate how important it is or what it means to you, voting?

	H:	Yeah voting to me is very important like I say because you can sit back and you can complain all day but if you don’t vote, so you don’t have really have a reason to complain. You get out and vote, then you can complain about what’s the current event or what this one did or what that one did. It’s important but I don’t like this electoral college they got to me. You get out and vote and then its electoral college says okay Florida goes to X you know whoever and Georgia to this, no, go count the vote that’s what you know matters, what I would like to see you know rather than this electoral college.

	A:	What do you think are the more local level— do you think it’s also important to be engaged in this community?

	H:	Yeah.



	A:	In the local elections or county?



	H:	Yeah in election I would like to see the candidates focus more on the people rather than on each other you know about what you did back then two years ago.





Tell me what you gone do for me not what she did years ago you know that’s in the past. Tell me what you gone do for me now you know running for the country or whoever you running for. The state if you’re running for governor you know.

What you gone do for the state rather than what XYZ do when he was in office. That’s in the past, you can’t bring the past back so tell what you gone do for me in the future.

S:  What do you think- what do you want like— H:  Huh?

	S:	What do you want from— like what do you want it now?



	H:	Well like I said all this debating going on. Don’t focus on what somebody did in the past, you know you can’t go back and change the past, you tell me what you gone do for me if you get elected.

	S:	Do you guys have any—



	B:	I have a question, what are some improvements or change that you want it see when discussing veteran benefits like is there improvements? Is there something they need to focus more on or are you fine with what you’re getting from the government?

	H:	No they need to do some change or something serious because like I said, I went to Vietnam back in [19[69 they were using Agent Orange back then and I have some problems and you file a claim and the next letter you get says denied and they know it’s on your- like you said everything is done by paperwork. You got your DD form 214 to show what year you was over there. Your MOS, how long you was there. But then like I said you go file a claim and they deny deny





deny every time. You back a refile and denied denied. That’s the only word they know: denied. I would look more seriously into maybe putting somebody in there that’s more or less been through a war rather than just going out appointing somebody that don’t know anything about what went on during that particular time.

	B:	What other changes do you want to see besides that?



	H:	Well I would like to see them get more help for the veterans, more housing, you know the guy went out and fought for their country and then they come back and a lot of us are still homeless, don’t have any you know no food just living one day to you know-

	B:	Day to day?



	H:	Yeah.



	S:	Were you not able to use the GI bill when you came back to like?



	H:	Well I was but I didn’t I started back to school I didn’t completed finished it up so yeah.

	A:	You said you don’t really have much personal contact, is everything just by mail?



You said then you file for like claims or benefits?



	H:	Yeah well you can go out to the VA they just put a new one here VA Hospital out on Orange Avenue but you know they got the DAD you know the representative there for the veteran you know you go in and file a claim and he send off and you wait wait wait and then they’ll finally send you a letter back saying denied you know you don’t have enough- and one more thing while I’m talking, back then we went you was in your twenties you know like I said I was infantry we had to carry





all this stuff on our back and back then you didn’t really feel the consequences of carrying all that stuff and as you get older it more or less you can feel different pains or ailments in your back and you go file a claim and they say well it’s not in your record because back then you was twenty years old you couldn’t— I mean you could go out there and do whatever but years after years go by, you can feel the different ailments and pains. But they believe in what’s in your record, what’s in your record?

	S:	They don’t understand that the pain came over time. H:	Yeah you know it’s— yeah

	S:	Do you have anything else? B:	No.

	A:	What— ‘cause you said you started going back to school, what did you study? H:	When I went back to I did criminal justice. I wish I had finished but—

	B:	You still have time you know you could always continue if you want.



	H:	Yep I thought about going back and taking up a little class you know like small engines or you know something like that because I got a couple of lawn mowers and things to work on yeah.

	S:	I think we’re close to the end, is there anything we didn’t touch on that you want to talk about?

	H:	No I think I about said it all. B:	Okay.

	H:	But I enjoyed you all. S:	No yeah.





	H:	And thank y’all for coming. A:	Thank you.

	H:	I hope I might’ve said something that might help you. B:	Yes you did a lot, you said a lot.

	S:	I think I have a better understanding of like- alright so I’m just gonna end it.









[End of interview]









Transcribed by:

Amanda Lorenzo,

October 29, 2019

Audit-edited by:

Sandra Romero

March 31, 2020

Final edited by:

Sandra Romero

January 14, 2021