AAHP 266A; Perkins; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 266A Gladys Perkins African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Keilani Jacquot on May 17, 2012 28 minutes | 11 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Ms. Gladys Perkins discusses her experience growing up in a loving, Christian household with a childhood illness, along with her mother’s strong role in the dynamic family unit. She highlights a few childhood memories, especially those pertaining to her family’s involvement in, and discussions surrounding, the Civil Rights Movement. Through this, she tells of a time when her own mother led a strike.

Furthermore, Ms. Perkins describes her experience with discrimination at the University of Florida. In addition, she explains the vital role of faith in her life, and briefly details her involvement in a union.



[Keywords: African American History; Civil Rights Movement; Gainesville; University of Florida]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 266A

Interviewee: Gladys Perkins Interviewer: Keilani Jacquot Date: May 17, 2012



	J:	This is Keilani Jacquot for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program; the date is the 17 of May in 2012. I’m here with Gladys Perkins in her home, in Gainesville, Florida. Gladys, if you could please state for me your full name and maiden name, if that applies.

	P:	Gladys Olivia Perkins.



	J:	Okay, can you also tell me when and where you were born?



	P:	I was born June 21, 1954, in Gainesville, Florida, actually in the Portis Community, I was born at home.

	J:	Okay, can you start by telling me a bit about how you grew up?



	P:	It’s kind of difficult because at the age of three I had meningitis. So my mom tells me I was paralyzed and I had to learn to walk again. I was kept separate from the other children, and more or less just protected. Because Caroline and I actually just had this conversation, she could never understand why. My uncle had two houses on his property. My mom, my family, we lived across from him. They kept me in the front house, even at age six, seven. And my uncle lived in the back and my mom and dad and other children were in our home. So I basically grew up like an only child. And it’s always odd to me because I tell people that I never knew we were poor. Everybody in the neighborhood was just alike. And who was that? Mrs. Roberts in her book said, she grew up in the Great Depression. The thing is you don’t know your suffering, because everybody else was in the same situation you are. But we never went without food, never went without new clothes, you know, we were never freezing cold, not out in the rain, nothing. And





we had a very loving, Christian home. My mother raised her siblings, their children, her children, took care of her paralyzed brother. You know all this going on in her life, she was still just such a strong figure within the family, but that love was still there for everybody. People would just love to come to her house, that’s why I never knew we were poor, and she always entertains them. The minister and the mother’s board and deacon board members always came to our house for dinner every Sunday. I just think about my life and how I grew up. It was an experience that I think a lot of children need to have today, because it was that close knit family, if you didn’t have and somebody did, you’re glad; that’s how we grew up. Whatever was needed, people shared, you know it was just like they said, it does take a village to raise a child…We’re just moving away from that.

Everybody was like one big family.



	J:	Who did you all grow up with in your house?



	P:	I grew up with my two brothers, my sister, my cousins were in and out, mama would have them come and stay with us. My cousin Rebecca, mama would have her most of the time, it was always somebody in my family beside us that was there with us. You know, it was two boys two girls, but my sister is the oldest, and she came in when everybody else was sort of there, like my uncle who was paralyzed and my cousin. My mom took her brother’s two children when he and his wife divorced. So my older sister got to experience all that, and I think she . . . just may have felt a little out of sort about it but anyways that’s the way it goes.

My mom raised her sister at the age of two, their mother passed from cancer, so





then she took her brother’s two children, and she finally got pregnant with my sister, so she had her own child.

	J:	How old was she when she first took in her sister? First taking care of her sister?



	P:	My mom was, I think she said eighteen, somewhere around there; I’m not sure right now. No . . . sixteen maybe, Seripha was two . . . now I have to go back and calculate. But anyways, she was a teenager, yeah. No I take that back, ‘cause she wasn’t eighteen, around sixteen. They moved from Monteocha because her mother was ill. They came into town, so the aunts could help the children with their mother. And then when she passed they stayed and went from there.

	J:	That’s a lot of responsibility for a teenager. P:	It is.

	J:	What are some memories that you have from your childhood, from when you were growing up?

	P:	Memories?



	J:	Yeah. What stands out the most to you when you think about that time?



P:  Growing up? Well, let me talk about Carol coming into our lives. Because a lot of my memories I can tell you about, when I joined the church that’s a memory that stands out. Because one thing about my mom she was always there for me.

Whatever the situation she was there, and me joining the church, all I could do was just stand there and cry and wait for my mother to come because I knew that everything will be alright. But Carol, when Carol came into our lives, all of a sudden everything just became a mystery to me. Because everyone was meeting, they would have meetings at my house, and of course we can’t stay up





to know what’s going on but I would stay up just a little bit to hear bits and pieces of what they were planning for the next day march, the sit-in, it was just so exciting. The people coming in, people I’ve never seen before, coming together to plan something, still not understanding what was going on. When I was growing up in Gainesville I didn’t know anything about racism until the Civil Rights Movement. I never knew that we had to have people around our house, standing guard because the Klan was riding. I know that my mom and some mothers from the church would go, in the dark of night, different places to register people. I attempted to follow them one night, but it was so dark I was scared. All I wanted to do was be where they were, because it was so exciting to see them being so productive. And Carol was there, in the midst. Carol became a part of our family so quickly. She had a dedication and determination that was just parallel to my mother’s. My mother had a dedication and determination for the Lord; Carol had it for Civil Rights. The two of them together, it worked very well.

Just thinking about them, if I could be half of the woman that they are, I think I would be a good person. They had energy that I just don’t know where it came from, I really don’t. I remember Carol was arrested and taken to the jail. I had to be with them because I was sick, of course so my mom could keep me close. We started from my church and they walked down to the jail. We held a candlelight vigil. Now, I think they stayed out so long. I just can’t remember my mom got worried because I was still sitting in the car and didn’t see me. But they stayed and stayed and they wanted to make sure that they saw Carol’s face before they left. See, I’m not, you know, I wasn’t aware of what was happening inside the jail,





and I didn’t know people were being mistreated inside the jail. But once Carol got inside the jail, that was another fight. She wanted to make sure everyone was treated fairly, and she gave up a lot for this movement. She really did, great sacrifice. But those are the things I remember. I went to A. Quinn Jones Elementary School. From A. Quinn Jones I went to Howard Bishop. From Howard Bishop I went to Gainesville High School. From Gainesville High school I went to the University of Florida. At the University of Florida is where I first encountered any sort of injustice, at the University of Florida. And it just hurt me because I had gone through all that, with everybody just seeing me as somebody who wants to learn and absorb. I got to the university and bam. It was kind of strange; I didn’t like it.

	J:	What kinds of things happened?



	P:	Issues over grades, class participation. I had never made, well I made C’s in high school when I took any biology, hated that, but to make a D, oh no, never. You know I developed my study habits, I know what I’m supposed to do I made good. Then I thought, my friends came from Gainesville High School, and they’re not all Black and I don’t see that as an issue, but it became an issue. The instructor would ask, it’s your business who you associate with. I was like, okay, so what’s the problem? As long as I turn in my work, I’m participating. I don’t let anybody tell me who I associate with, nobody tells me that. I left school.

	J:	They were grading you based on who you hung out with?



	P:	That was what I— I mean, he made the comment. But I wouldn’t dare tell my mom, I just told them I didn’t want to go back. I really didn’t want to go back to





Florida anyway, I didn’t like it. My parents made me go. [Laughter] My brother went, my youngest brother went, my oldest brother went when he got out of the military. Did my sister go? No, she went out of town.

	[Telephone rings] P:	One minute. [Break in recording]

	J:	So do you remember any other specific events from the Civil Rights struggle, or the kinds of things you saw during that time?

	P:	Well, I’ll get the bad stuff. One night Carol came running to the house, because something had happened to her at home, someone tried to attack her. So they had to increase the amount of people who would be there to stand guard to protect her and her family. Of course I only get bits and pieces; I was supposed to be asleep when these kinds of things happened. She still didn’t let that stop her. She was determined to make a difference, and a lot of them did. I just remember us having meetings in the church, with people coming from everywhere to help make changes in the city. Just meetings all the time, marching, sit-ins. Some things I can’t tell, that I remember. They’d have sit-ins at the Waffle House, it used to be in University Avenue, now it’s on 13th, and they integrated that. They got my cousin Melissa, and my aunt Seripha, the one that my mom raised, they got them two enrolled in night school at Buchholz. Buchholz was right on University at one time, until they moved it out and then it became Santa Fe. You know, they just never stop working.

	J:	What’s the role that religion’s played for you in your life?





	P:	Oh my God! I can tell you I wish I was strong. My mom and my dad, we grew up in a Christian home, number one. My grandfather was a minister, and I truly believe even if he wasn’t a minister because of my mother and father we would’ve— my sister is a minister. But my beliefs, even at school, prayer, for me, was my A. I know that I know that I can call on the Lord, and everything is possible through him. My faith, even the things I do today, my faith, because I have to pray and ask the Lord to guide me, because of my mom and Carol Thomas, I’m out there doing what I’m doing today and I need to stop. But I will help any and everybody out there to the best of my ability, and people know if they need help I’m here for them, and the only way I can do it is to have the Lord guide me, so I will not cause harm to anybody. If I take on a project, I may not know that much about it, I’ve been working on modifications since 2008, and I hate anything that has to do with real-estate, I really do. But I have senior citizens who need help, they can’t afford to go and pay an attorney. I can sit and write a letter, but letters get me somewhere, because I pray and ask the Lord for guidance to lead me to say the right things. Somebody’s gonna come to help them to keep their home, but I’m still gonna get out there. If there’s an issue that needs to be discussed, I will be there to discuss it. That’s from Carol, and even my mother. My mom led a strike. She told me, she said they were working at the cleaners, some cleaners that was up here on 4th Avenue and 5th Street, where those apartments are now. And she said she had talked to everybody they were getting paid ten cents a day, 1930-something, I can’t remember, ten cents a day. So she talked to everybody and said, look we need to talk [inaudible 18:16] she





told me but I forget. I would love to hear her tell the stories. No union, she didn’t know about a union, never heard of a union, I’m sure. But she tried to organize the people to force the owner to at least give them a nickel raise. That didn’t happen, because when she went to talk to him they left her standing there. Do know what a chattel mortgage is?

	J:	No.



	P:	Why is it that people have never heard of a chattel mortgage? We were taught this in school. I am so old. My father, this is collateral, my father is the collateral for one hundred dollars. Look at the year. If he did not repay that debt, this debt would be handed out to even to his grandchildren, great-grands, until it was paid off. It is so amazing, I love stuff like this. But that’s what they purchased. But he had to do that, a chattel mortgage.

	J:	So what exactly does it mean?



	P:	He is the collateral. He is, my father, his person will be held as collateral for this loan. He could become their servant [20:26].

	J:	Of this company? So this company would? P:	Wherever he bought the furniture.

	J:	Would own him?



	P:	Uh-huh.



	J:	If he didn’t pay this back? Wow, I have never heard of that.



	P:	I wish I could make a copy for you but I don’t have a . . . never! A lot of people, I ask them: do you know what a chattel mortgage is? God, you know I still just can’t believe it. My mom put together all this stuff, she was glad to see this.





		J:	That’s amazing, and what year was that from again? P:	1948

	J:	Wow, not that long ago at all.

	P:	Etna Finance, and you know they’re still in business. See I remember when my sister was…*inaudible*. I don’t know what that is. It’s just amazing to me.

	J:	That is pretty amazing.

		P:	I want to sort of put our history	In my mind I’ve had it organized over and over



again but it doesn’t work out that well. A lot of children don’t care about history, but they need to know about where they came from. You just need to know, it’s a part of you, it’s the reason you are who you are. I look at Carol today, she’s seventy-something, she’s still going strong and I don’t. She can go to four meetings a day, and I can only do one. And they just do it, and my mom, they would just go, go, go.

	J:	What church did you attend growing up? Is it a particular denomination or?



	P:	Same church I attend now. Mt. Olive Community Baptist Church. My great, great, great, somebody’s uncle, started the church.

	J:	Yeah?



	P:	Uh-huh. Same church. I’m just and old fuddy-duddy. We’re primitive Baptist; we’re wash-feet Baptist. You ever heard of that?

	J:	Do you want to explain what that means?



	P:	When we have Communion, you know you do the bread and the blood of Jesus. But you also, you wash each other’s feet, it is an example of humbling yourself. Christ did this as an example to show that man should humble himself before his





brother. You’re no better than anybody else, we’re all the same. So we are wash- feet Baptist, primitive Baptist. That’s why I like it.

	J:	So when you stopped going to UF, what did you do… P:	After that?

	J:	Yeah.



	P:	I went to work.



	J:	Where did you work?



	P:	At the phone company, and then went to Santa Fe, took a couple classes, stayed at the phone company. Did I take classes at UF? No, back at Santa Fe, and I stayed with the phone company for a while. But everything became too much for me so I had my mom and my dad passed. I had my mom and I had a baby, six month baby, two pounds eight ounces. I had such a good time, I just loved her, she was so perfect to me. And umm, got a little sick so I left the job.

	[Knock at the Door] P:	Come in!

	J:	So when you were at the job at the telephone company, you were part of the union, weren’t you? Do you mind telling—

	P:	Local 3105.



	J:	Wanna talk about that a bit? [Laughter]



	P:	Affirmative action was a thing then, when I started, so of course they had to have their quota. But the thing about the good old boy’s system was they still wanted to go their way, but the union was there. The union protected everybody no matter what. And when I became a union steward it was just another world





opening up for me, cause there are rules and regulations that you must follow, it’s in writing, and this is for later. This is to make sure everyone is treated equally; we’re all on an even plane. I represented telephone operators—

[Knock on door] [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Anthony Reyes, April 2014



	Audit-edited by:	Christian Wanamaker, April 24, 2014 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019