AAHP 678; Johnson; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 678 Ronald Johnson 7-6-2019 Interviewed by Deon Winchester on July 6, 2019 72 minutes | 32 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Mr. Ronald Johnson discusses his personal life history, including his childhood experiences with racism in the Florida education system, his time in the Marine Corps, and his work after retiring as a veteran and becoming involved in Pensacola. He provides valuable insight into the history of the Black community across the US South, including the process of integrating schools, as well as the perspective of race within the military.





Keywords: [racism, veteran, Florida, military, church]



AAHP 678

Interviewee: Ronald Johnson Interviewer: Deon Winchester Date: July 6, 2019





W:  My name is Deon Winchester and I’m with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Today is Saturday, July the sixth, 2019, and I am with Ronald G. Johnson. Mr. Johnson, thank you for taking the time to be with us today.

J:   You’re welcome.



	W:	Let’s begin. I mean, are you from, originally from Pensacola?



	J:	No, I’m originally from Birmingham, Alabama. Moved to Pensacola in 1996. I worked for—I came from Jackson, Mississippi, I was in charge of the marine recruiting station in Jackson, so they sent me in charge of the marine recruiting station here in Pensacola, and I retired here in 2001. So, I’ve been here for about twenty years.

	W:	So, a long time. Can you speak a little bit of your upbringing in Alabama, were there, what it was like?

	J:	When I was in Birmingham, course I was born in 1959, and you know, of course Dr. King came through in around [19]63 I believe, and [19]63 I was a kid then, but we integrated the schools—I remember the schools getting integrated. Matter of fact, I was going to an all-Black school and our school was a neighborhood school, and it went from the first to the fifth grade, okay? And we had—fourth and fifth grade was in the same classroom, and when we integrated the schools, went from Thomas Furnace Elementary to Gorgas Elementary, and it was a big difference. 2000—1973 when they integrated the schools, you know, we was totally—the neighborhoods were segregated, we lived—my dad worked at Republic Steel, and we lived on a four, back—so, one way in and out of the





neighborhood I was in, I remember four Black schools in the back were all Black kids, and the Whites lived on first to third street, and I remember from fourth to eighth was where the Blacks—but I had a pretty good childhood, bringing up, you know, we—before we integrated schools, we didn’t deal with many Whites— matter of fact, we were pretty, I was pretty much sheltered from them, my parents kept us pretty much sheltered cause there was a lot going on at the time. You know, we—church, of course we went to church every Sunday, but once I went to high school—I went to Parker High School, A.H. Parker High, you know, that’s the oldest Black school in Birmingham—first I went to Glenn when we integrated, I went to Glenn and it was about three years into integration, and I spent one year at Glenn High School then I transferred to Parker. I went to Parker two years, cause I graduated a year early from Parker to join the Marine Corps. Well, it was—to me it was a fairly normal upbringing, you know, I had twelve brothers—well, eight brothers and four sisters—you know, we lived in a providence, a six-room house—I remember, my pop made the add-ons—you know, and we—it was a pretty happy childhood.

	W:	Do you want to speak a little bit of your family? I know you spoke of your father, you know, what recollections do you have of your grandparents?

	J:	Okay, it’s kind of—I don’t have very much because see, my dad— I was born, my dad was born in 1899, I was born in 1959, my dad was around sixty years old when I was born. I stayed with my dad’s mom, my grandmother, when I was smaller, and when she died, I moved up, stayed with my mom and pops. It was twelve of us in the house—I mean we slept, me and my little brother slept in the





bed together. Most of my, all of my sisters went to college, all of them got degrees, but most of the boys went to the military. I had—well, three of my oldest brothers went to the Army, my oldest brother went to the Job Corps—not to Job Corps, it was Job Corps but at the time, it wasn’t like Job Corps today. They actually had to go to Army bases to train, and they sent him to Texas to learn skill. He was saying that President Kennedy had started to think the Job Corps when he joined, because he tried to join the military, but when he was in the Job Corps, but he was missing some of the stuff. So, he became an architect though—matter of fact, he worked at UAB to draw some first plans for UAB. My oldest sister [inaudible 6:00] then I had four sisters, the four oldest sisters. One of them was the first Black airline student for Delta, one of my sisters became a nurse, and one of them went into business. And my little sister, she went into education. She graduated from Maria and she taught out in California for quite a few years, worked at UCLA, she taught a nonprofit. My other brothers—the four right over me went to, they all went in the military. One went to the Army, one went—two, three went to the Army, one to the Navy. I went to the Marine Corps, and my youngest brother went into Army, and then got out the Army and he enlisted in the Marine Corps. So, my mom, she was a homemaker. You know, they wouldn't, she wouldn't work—she didn't work, it wasn’t she wouldn’t, she didn't work—back then, the women stayed at, in the house. And he worked in the steel mill, I remember [inaudible 7:14] one lady as well, I remember him going to work and coming home. Pretty much, that's pretty much it. I just know all the girls, all of them, they had to go to college. And then all the boys—because at the





time, financial wise, we were all around the same—ain’t too much difference in age. And, you know, going to school—but you had to have money even to go to school back then. I remember them putting the houses—I had a chance to go to college, but I decided not to because I didn't want my parents to put their house up so that I could get that education. So, you know, I went on to the military, and I guess I followed suit cause most of my brothers went, so I followed suit on that.

	W:	That’s an interesting dynamic, you know, the four girls went to college and the boys went to the military. You know, that’s a—usually you find that the other way—well, not the other way around but—

	J:	I understand that. You know, and I guess we don’t—my oldest brother would tell you he’s he’ll speak on it but, you know, as a—I’ll say Black, cause you know, we have to dress our ethnicity so many different ways over the years, I remember—and I did go to school when I retired, I went to school here—PJC, it was PJC, graduated there, I went to Troy, graduated from Troy then I—old town Bible college, I do have a degree in theology. But back then, you know, you had white guys they used to rape Black women. You know, Black women were so—what my mom did, they wanted to make sure the girls was educated so that they could take care of themselves in case they got in something. And it was like—the boys, you just had to do something. You go and get a job—I remember every day, every morning at six o'clock, even in the summertime, he had to get up and get it—there wasn’t no laying around. So, that's just the way they saw life back then.





	W:	Talk about—you talked about some of the schools you attended, that integration was just beginning.

	J:	Yes.



	W:	One school was like three years into integration. What was that experience like coming from your community and experiencing, you know, integrated schools as you did?

	J:	It was different, simply for the fact, whilst we went, we went from the small community, Black community school where, you know, we didn't have a gym, we didn't have a lunchroom, we just had—they just taught four classes—and when we went over to the White schools and they had everything. You know, they got a library—we didn't have a library—they had a gymnasium, they had—we used to call them shop classes—you know, you could shop class, music, we didn't have it. I mean, we just had basic, you know, we took art, math, Spanish, English, but over there we could take music. And it was a very interesting—it opened up a lot of doors, because I remember—poetry, I got a chance to do poetry, I was very interested in poetry, and I won a poetry reading contest, first year I got there. So, a whole lot of stuff opened up, but at the same time, you know, we—it was, it was always confrontation, all the time.

	W:	In what ways?



	J:	I would say violence—it wasn’t, we didn't raid, it wasn’t like riots, but there were lots of fights, you know. And I contributed too, because we used to play—we used to, when I was going to the Black school, we would go across the track and play football with the White guys and, you know, when we were going to school





together, it's a different dynamic because most of their fathers worked with our fathers at the steel mill, but when we went to school, we had to do a lot of fighting. And I remember my brother walking—my brother, my mom and my brother to the store I went with him, two guys jumped on ‘em. And then my two brothers— my brother and another friend went and find the guys, so it was—and this was in the [19]60s, so it was a different dynamic, you know. And the schools were—I mean, the school—it opened up a lot going from that small school to the school and uh so, they had athletics—no we didn't have any athletics, we went to PE, but they had the gym, you know, get—we were able to run track, play basketball—we couldn't do it at the small school out there cause we didn't have it. You know, even the books we had weren't new, but when we got over there, we got new books. [Inaudible 12:54] and I know my youngest brother one them he…his—his temper was very you know, and he’s still like that today. And he got put out of school because him and the principal kept bumping heads, he just didn't agree with perfectly and—of course, it was by us integrating schools, of course they had their—she had her program, but the program wasn’t conducive to what he was used to. So, we had to take him out and send him back to an all- Black school—he had to go see the psychologist, the psychiatrist—there wasn’t nothing wrong with him. Yeah, so—

	W:	You said the all-Black schools still, even after integration, still they remained open?

	J:	Yeah. Yeah, they remained open. They bussed us, and it was—you know, we didn't have county buses in Birmingham, we used the city bus, you know, and





you would get your bus tokens, you know, you got your free bus passes—and they bussed us quite a ways from home, quite a ways.

	W:	About how long would you spend commuting to and from school?



	J:	The buses ran pretty much every fifteen, thirty minutes, and I would say to get to school, to and from school, at least forty-five minutes in the morning and forty- five minutes in the evening. And if you walk, it was a good hour, maybe hour and a half—now, when we were—elementary school was about twenty minutes cause it was across the tracks in the neighborhood, but when you went to high school, that's when you had, you know, the further schools were away, cause we could catch—I could catch the bus if I was going down to Parker, probably be about fifteen minutes, but you had to catch the bus and catch another bus to get to Glenn, which was—again, it was different from Parker. You know, Parker, they had tailoring and electronics, but they had a much more, I guess a progressive shops program. And it was—it was different. But I would say in the mornings, probably going to high school, about an hour in the mornings, at least—in the evenings, going to and from. In elementary, we had to walk because we didn't have buses, and the bus couldn’t, didn't take you to school. But, you know, the thing about the neighborhood is all of us went, and at that time, we had a lot of big families, cousins, so, you know. So, I would say about twenty minutes.

	W:	Who would you say are some of your biggest influences in the community, in the community growing up?

	J:	Um, first I would say the church, of course. I remember—Sunday school teachers, were probably the big—course, my dad, at that time, you know, he





really was a big influence. Like I said, he was sixty when I was born, but he was the type of man—he didn't say much, and he didn't say it twice. And he didn't talk loud, I mean, he said, “Boy, you do this.” And that was it. Of course, he disciplined us, because he had to get to that point when we were kids, but when we got a chance to be—when I said, when we reached about five years old, it wasn't no problems, you know, if they said “jump,” you say “How high?” But it was discipline. So, my dad first and then the Sunday school teachers because they taught us, you know, they taught you the Bible—but it was more like, it was right and wrong, but it was more moral, morality, you know, moral stuff. And my English teacher, he was very uh—first male teacher that I had, he was a Black teacher—he’s passed now—he did become a principal in Birmingham, of [inaudible 17:27] I think he was my biggest influence when it came to education and moving up, because you got a chance to see a—because you only knew, when I was growing up, all of the males were mainly blue collar workers, you know, and our only out really, you can either work in the steel mill, get a job, join the military—you could go to college, but you had to have funds. And when you come from a big family, you know, your parents will put their house up and this, and we—I just didn't want to put that burden on my family, you know? And none of the boys did, cause we did—we felt that, you know, we just got to go out and get it, you know, so, we all went out on our own. But I would say my pop because he worked hard. And I say it because, you know, mom never had to work, I've never, he—she would be fussing and he wouldn't even raise his voice, he’d just call her name and that was it. He never got physical with her, you know—but at





the same time, he was about twenty years older than my mom. But, you know, we never—we always had food, you know, we never had any problems, you know, he—you know, the family. And so, he became my biggest influence on how I am today with, even with my wife—you know, mom don’t have no problems, she didn’t have nothing to worry about, all—she said, and then they talked and, you know, got things on, so—but my dad, my Sunday school teacher, my English teacher, and in life, my biggest influence is Dr. King. You know, I was really—you know, the way he handled life in general. You know? I was really impressed with that.

	W:	When he came to Alabama, do you recall any—I mean, you said you were a young boy—do you remember, have any recollection of him?

	J:	Of Dr. King?



	W:	Yes.



	J:	I was very young when he came to Birmingham. I remember just the March on Washington, but the most impressive—I remember that I did see the Klan march, and it was, because—it was funny because after I retired out of the Marine Corps and I went to the, and I took English up at PJC, Dr. Guangping Zeng—he was from China, they got him from China—we wrote, and my first paper was on seeing the Klan march, that actual event. My brother took me downtown, and it was, it was sort of a frightening moment. But, you know, like I said, I was little, we could only watch stuff on television, and we were sheltered from everything that happened in Birmingham, we were sheltered because—I might have been about three, four years old, five years old—but that event, and the non-violence, you





know. I remember writing a paper on the book Why can't we wait?—I did a book report on it, because my—I took African American Studies, and one thing about PJC, Florida—in the state of Florida, they did allow African American Studies.

And I wrote a paper on that, and the language—forget the name, Ms. Gill, her name was Gill, Professor Gill. You know, we would talk and she—oh, they actually thought Dr. King was weak—she was from New Jersey, so, we would discuss, you know, Malcom X and I said, well—so I wrote, when I wrote the paper—and it was funny, because back then they were using the word negros. If you listen to Dr. King's speech, all of them say negros. But they said Black, and he was talking about—so, why can't we wait, and he was talking about how the riots and what was going to happen, but he was addressing it, and he was talking about thunder and lightning, how the Hell’s gonna break loose. And she said, “You know, I've never seen it from that point of view.” Because they always thought non-violence was passive, and it is passive, but it’s still resistance—non- violence is in resistance, because no, you're not doing the violence, but it’s gonna turn into confrontation. So, and even the words I would use, she’d say “you can write that” and I’d say “well you told me to do the book report, and this is what he said, and this is the way they said it.” “But you got to use Black!” I said, “No, it's Negro.” And you know, so, dynamics in America was changing, but still in the south, it was still a little bit different. You know, even when I retired, I worked at the VA, and I had white general kept saying, “Run, boy, run boy.” And I told her, and I told my wife, I said “Listen, if he say that one more time, me and him gonna have a problem,” you know, and he might not have meant it at all, he





might not have even knew he mean it, because he was an older guy, and maybe that’s just the way it was then. But you know, times have—you know, we didn't have to deal with that when we were young, because we weren't taught like that, we weren’t called boys at home. Once you got a certain age, all of that changed, you know, and so—but I hope I'm not—

	W:	No, you’re fine.



	J:	But that was, it was—and that's basically how growing up was different, from that point of view. Because even when I went in the Marine Corps, you know, we were—we were taught at home because my mom would tell my older brothers, she would get on them. Something happen, look, I'm just—I'm gonna kill you before the White folks kill you. That was her words, because they were killing!

Let's face it, down south, Jim Crow, they was still hanging people—and so, that was real. So, you know, you had to abide by certain rules, and do certain things, certain places, you couldn’t go by yourself, if you went, you had to go in twos or threes. So, that kind of shaped—it shapes your worldview, how you grow up, your culture, shapes your worldview. And even today, there’s certain places that I just—like I tell my wife, you go somewhere and you stay on the interstate, down south—I mean, because of how it is, you know, you look at—and you don't worry about it happening, but it can happen, and it still happens. You don’t know when it’s gonna happen. So, you know, and—it was a very difficult time, but it was good, because you could go anywhere you wanted to go, long as you went in pairs, and you went with your family—and it was good.





	W:	You know, what about as you—graduating from high school and, you know, what was the economic prospects at the time? I mean, you talked about your sisters, of course, going off to college and your brothers joining the military, but what was the economic prospects at the time and what led to your decision, you know, to join the military as opposed to any other—working at the steel mill, or any other opportunities that may have been around?

	J:	Jobs were—you could get a job, and you know, people down at the steel mill, man, they was making good money.

	W:	Now, this was—what year did you graduate?



	J:	1976. But they were making good money at the steel mill. You know, they had began to close down a little bit later, but they were making pretty good money. You know, money was plentiful, the jobs—my thing, if you didn't want to work, you know, you had problems, of course, but my parents—one thing we did, we were gone and graduated from school, there wasn’t no doubt, there wasn’t no— you know, that was your job, to graduate from school. And to get a job—getting a job was alright, but you—again, economically, you don't want to have to work two or three jobs or work your whole life. And the reason I joined the Marine Corps, first of all, I looked at the jet and saw some Marines, and I saw—in Vietnam, you know, they were showing the Marines [inaudible 27:09] at nine, at fourteen, I knew I was gonna join the Marine Corps, that’s why I graduated from high school early. Matter of fact, we used to have a large Veterans’ Day in Birmingham, the Veterans’ Day parade in the country, and I would see the Marine recruiter walking, parading, walking on the sidewalk, so I said “I’m gonna join the Marine





Corps.” So, what I did, when I was—I didn’t tell you this, I played football, I played baseball, had a chance at a baseball scholarship that the coach—I don't know what he was thinking about, you know, but I was the type of guy look my dad was sixty when I was born, and I would see him work and I said, man, I can't work all my life. I mean, this just my thought process look in twenty years, I can retire at thirty-seven, so, I took the test a year early. My junior year, I joined because of my—actually, when I turned seventeen, that was my—I graduated my junior year, so I joined in my junior year, I just took enough credits to graduate and have credit. So, I said “look, I’m gonna go in,” so I went on and I went in, and I went in—I had to graduate though, I had to get—I had to pass all my classes, which were no problem, I had to take PE because I went to summer school for PE, to take PE to graduate. The day after I finished in summer school, I left for the Marine Corps. But my thinking was, I don’t want to work all my life. I just— because my dad, and you see the other old gentleman, and I—well, thirty-seven I can do something else in life, and so—but most jobs were, of course, the way that the economy is now they were—they ain’t making much more minimum wage as you were making back then, you know? But if you worked in the steel meal, you made good money, but you were working hard, man, you had to work—I mean, it's good money, but you had to work. Matter of fact, I had an oldest brother, one of my older brothers—he didn't live with me he was my dads oldest done. He was about twenty years older than I was—he got black lung from working in the steel mill in California, he died—and so, it was very, it was hard, but most—cause we live all on. If you're, if you study history, and you will find





how [inaudible 29:52] you had everything right there where you lived, you know, it's like a mountain camp. You know, you had the doctor's office, you know, you had the commissary, everything was right there, but you know, you had to work. And I just, you know, when I was growing up, thinking I'm gonna, I'm not gonna do this all my life. So, that’s what led me into it. My brothers—I know, my older— like I said, my oldest of them he got in the draft, and the one that went to the Job Corps, he came back and worked for the Urban League. That, you know, he got a job at UAB, and drawing up the plans, working with architects or whatever. My other brother, he went to the Army, and he was—left in 1972, I remember when he went, and then I had another brother, he quit school and went—I guess he just wanted to follow him. But all of us, you know, we all—we did something, you know, we all did something in life. Even now. You know, just about everybody in the neighborhood did something. Of course, you had a lot of guys that fell by the wayside, you know, and you had people who OD’ed, you had all that going on as well. But, you know, the way our—the way we were all raised, is you going to do something, you're not gonna sit around here and sulk—and we wanted to leave home, we wanted our responsibility. You know, if you can either sit home and, as a male, you know, you don't want nobody telling you what to do all the time. “Man, I’m tired of this, I’m tired of washing these dishes, I’m tired of cutting this grass,” well, if you’re tired of it, you go get your own home and you don't have to worry about it. So, and that's the way it was because our parents were real strict—like I said, my dad just said “do it” and that was it. And ain’t—they never told us what they—and I can appreciate—they never told us what we could be in





life, or what you gonna be. They used to list, you can be anything you want to be, but whatever you be, you be the best at it. And I remember back to my dad, you know, “what you want me to do, dad?” “Son,” he went “you can do anything you want to do, but you just be good at what you do.” And you know, he never did tell me. I thought about being a lawyer—that was my number one thing, but—and I was young, but once I joined the Marine Corps, once I saw the Marines and joined the Marine Corps, I said this is what I'm gonna do. But my goal was to retire in twenty years and then go on, cause being only thirty-seven, I figured I was young enough to go on and do what I—still do it. But they kept promoting me. And you know, when you get promoted—[laughter]—the ultimate goal is the amount of money you make when you retire. And so, you know, that's—I stayed in it.

	W:	How long did you stay? J:	Twenty-five years.

	W:	What was that—I mean, seventeen-year-old kid, what, 1976? J:	Yeah.

	W:	What was that experience—was it what it looked like in the magazine or—?



	J:	[Laughter] No. When I first got to Parris Island—my first question was “What the Hell am I doing here?” That was my first question I said to myself, cause we stayed in our same clothes for about a week, and that’s—so, basic training was, it was very structured. It was hard, and if you seen the movie Full Metal Jacket, it’s similar to that, but with forest, you know, except for the rounds—he don’t, they ain’t gonna give you no rounds like that, everything is checked in and out, but it





felt similar there. And it's hard, but once you get out and you get into the regular fleet, now—you know, I was seventeen years old and I was a boy in a man's world. I was probably five foot six, one thirty-five, and these guys, most of them are like six two or six three. Because, you know, and it was—most of the guys have been to the brick, you know, guys who came from Vietnam, and they were—you know, they would shoot. I mean, it was—you talking about military weapons—that was a shocker, okay? Cause I was the youngest one there, and these grown men, I mean, sometimes they would stand there and what they call farm, you got two guys about six-two, six-three standing up, hitting each other in the chest with their fists. And race was a problem, it was a big problem.

	W:	How so?



	J:	They just [inaudible 35:42] we had—we called them human relation classes, we had to go every day. They had race riots. When I first got there, we marched in and we got out of bootcamp, and I can honestly say—cause we had guys from Wyoming and North Dakota had never seen Black people before. I mean, really. And you had guys from Tennessee, from the hills, and you lived in close quarters, because we had an open squad, basically, about like this and a rack here, over—and you had fights and you had—and it is true, guys from the north and guys from the south are totally different. The guys from the south had more, I want to say—I hate to say it, but probably home training, and I say that because we had to say “Yes, ma'am. Sir.” The way you live down south. And up north, you talking about guys used to getting in the streets at twelve and thirteen years old. You know, we in south, we just didn't have that. Most of the places, you know, if





you didn’t say “Yes, ma'am,” you’d get slapped in the mouth. You know, and it started in boot camp, they would separate us in boot camp, guys from the south—Alabama, Georgia, Florida—you know, up here, guys up here, they would always be harder on these guys cause it just, when it came to following orders.

That’s why I said, at home we had—everything was strict discipline. So, it wasn't a problem, you didn't have a problem with the discipline, you know? You know, I never went to the brick, never had no problem, you know, saying “Yes, sir.” You know, because you—some of yo—young brothers [inaudible 37:41] young white guy, “Yes, sir.” He younger because he is—he's a lieutenant, you know? They don't want to hear it. But I never had a problem with that because, you know, it was “Yes, sir. Yes, ma'am.” If you didn’t—even today, they might be, somebody might be younger than me, but I would give them respect. Yes, ma'am. You know, it just—it doesn't bother me, but I'm just saying how we—but that we stayed in close places, and you had some guys that really thought they were still superior, you know, to Blacks and Whites, so we had—and them guys [inaudible 38:25] Black guy wasn’t taking it. I mean, we had guys go to the brick, you know, they don’t mind going to the brick and coming back. You know, a lot of guys have been in long, they just—you know, they just got—been fighting out the end to hear that you know? And so, we—I remember they started discharging a lot of people, administrative discharge, and they said we gonna have too uh—and through education, it got better. Like I said, we had human relations classes, and you had them every day, and it got better and better. And I remember—drugs was big, I guess, guys coming from it all, and so they didn't have to test, your





analysis test, you know, so they—I remember when they started analysis tests, and so, I remember the process. I was put in charge straight out of boot camp, and I heard them guys say “Ain’t none of them gonna tell us what to do,” and you go like how you ever gonna handle these cats but I would, you know, I just— the way I was blessed because first thing I told them—all of them had been here four, five years, you know, they’ve been in some time, I mean, they get promoted, get busted—and I said, “Look,” I said “I just got here.” I'll never forget, I said “Y'all gonna have to help me,” I said, “so, we gonna do this thing together.” I’m gonna be asking all the questions—because I, you know, I knew the books cause I studied everything, I knew how everything went, you know—but at the same time I could understand where they were coming from. So, I was a squad leader as a PFC and so, I had a problem and I remember they said, “You the only somebody can tell us what to do.” I mean, these cats would go—and, you know, it was more the power of persuasion than it was, you know, authoritarian. And so—and I'll never forget, then shortly after that, they started coming out with the administrative discharge, so we gonna, everybody want out, we gonna clean Marine Corps up. And my guys, the guys that I handed to them in my squad, I would talk to them one on one. And when they got ready to go, I would take them to the bus station, I mean, I was in charge, so when they bring it down, I—look, back then, you know, drinking was fine, I’d go get a bottle of wine and go to the bus station and say “good luck partner.” But it was tough, I mean, you could go UA and, you know, when you go AWOL, they would come back, and they’d put you right back where you were because, you know, but—and uh, but it was fun. I





mean, it was fun because, you know, you hung in your groups and—but from, once you got past uhm—let me put it like this: when you were in garrison, you had a problem with race, but when you got out in the field, things change. You talking about depending on each other for your life. But it was a big problem. And to be honest with you, I don't know how they think it was today, but when I retired, it was a problem. It’s just that the more rank you got, you could filter out a lot of stuff. And like I tell the young guys today, if you are a private—you can't change nothing when you the lowest thing there, but just remember what's going on so if you do decide to stay, and you make rank, you can change it. You can be the change. And so that's kind of how my whole career went, you know?

	W:	Well, what was some of the things you did in the Marine Corps?



	J:	My first three years, I was infantry, I was a combat Marine cause that’s what I wanted to do, I wanted to go fight. And I guess the Lord saw fit for me not to go to Vietnam, He blessed me, but I wanted to do that. That's what I wanted to do. I spent my first three years in the Third Battalion, Eighth Marines. And we did, we went straight to the Middle East. My first, probably my first—we stayed in the field like sixteen months training up, and then went to the Middle East. And believe it or not, we did a lot of training—and we were out on the water. When Iranian hostages first, when the Iranian hostage—we were on our way because we were the evacuating force and President Carter. But we did a lot of training, I mean, we—I enjoyed the infantry. You know, I got meritorious promoted out of, you know, basic training good job. I did a lot of study, you know, I studied. I went to classes, called Marine Corps Institute courses, I would take them. I knew my job,





I knew officers’ job, I knew everybody’s job. My thing was let me do—whatever I'm gonna do, I’m gonna be the best at it. And I was infantry—you know, I got meritorious promotion—if you don't stay to rank, you know, in Marine Corps, we don't, you don't have to wait all the way up, you can go all the way up to E7, you don't have to wait. You can get promoted today and get promoted the next week, so—but it’s a timeframe in between promotions. I got to POC on a big trial wait last quota and after that, my promotions, I got them all ahead of time. So, when I was in the infantry, I enjoyed it. It was hard cause we stayed in the woods, we stayed training—because you train with the Army all services. We spent a few months training up with Green Berets up in Fort Bragg with the Army, in Virginia, but you stayed—but once, after my next, after that three years, I got out of the Marine Corps for a few months. Got married, that’s why I’m going back in—I’ll never forget it—and I went to Albany, Georgia. I was in Albany, Georgia from 1980 to [19]81, a year and a half—my daughter was born there. Got married, my daughter was born, and I went on recruiting duty. I went on recruiting duty, again, promotions. If you're good at what you do, you got promotions, you get promoted. And my thinking was well, while I'm doing this, I like doing it and, you know, [inaudible 45:50] you get a lot of guys just look—you know, they are there but to me there’s an end to the means, you know what I'm saying? So, I got meritorious promoted there to E6. I got recruited a year—like my second year out of there, and I—so, I did pretty good out there.

	W:	I think I saw you made Master Sergeant, is that highest rank?





	J:	Yes. Yeah, I got selected to Master Gunnery Sergeant, which was E9, but they wanted me to move and I said “look, man”—I was in Pensacola, I had twenty-five years, so why—I mean look, leave me here, and we all—you know, either you go or you—you know, and I was like “I’m just gonna stay.”

	W:	Where they wanted you to move to?



	J:	Montgomery, but I would’ve had to go—I would’ve been driving three and four state areas every day. So, no matter already got home, bought a home in Pensacola. Just leave me here. I mean, my thing is get somebody young and— that's what I don’t think an option, even in—train somebody else. This guy hungry I mean, he young, you’ll have him for a while. I'm getting out, ain’t no doubt, even if I go there for eighteen months, I'm getting out. You see what I’m saying? I’m through. And, but you know, that's one thing that I disliked—they’re probably like that today. You know, if you’re good, they’ll beat—they’ll run the good horse in the ground.

	W:	Yeah, Thank you for your service, man. J:	You’re welcome.

	W:	What was—upon retirement, what was that transition back to civilian life, what did, what was that like? And what did you do?

	J:	Okay. That's why I stayed on recruiting duty. I—once I went to recruiting duty— W:	Alright, we’re going to pause, and we’ll pick it back up after. Alright, part two,

continuing interview with Mr. Ronald Johnson. Mr. Johnson, you were speaking about post—





	J:	Okay, yes. Well, my transition wasn’t as hard, that hard—I had, while I was in, you know, you hear about most a lot of people getting out after about five years and passing. That's why I stayed on recruiting duty, for one reason, because, you know, you're in the community, and you're talking to people every day, parents, students. And though my transition was fairly easy, I mean, it was, was easy in a sense that I don't have to worry about giving a private an order and him not doing it on recruiting duty, I had to talk to people. So it wasn't, I didn't really have a problem adjusting in that sense. Now, the attitudes of the people in the service and out was the big difference, because most people wanted to do—they wanted to do things up to a certain standard, whereas you had—I’d just say civilians really didn't take life as serious I should say, is that your eighteen-year-old was a lot more serious in the service than it was outside. And so, but what I did is—I had a goal, I said, “Well, you know, when I retired—" I went to school, which was, it was, it’s what I had planned to do, but it was, it was just me, I went to school, to classes, and I just, it was good. And the mayor—now, at first it was hard, because I was—recruiting duty, you know, you work ‘til dark, but and then when you getting off at, getting up in the morning, don't have to worry about, you know, first few months going to work and, and it was, it became a breeze because I took—I had ninety days worth of relief, so I was—actually went on terminal leave, and actually, I had a three month adjustment period where I could go just throw out my beach chair. And at the same time, I was going through my bedroom doing veteran stuff and went on into school, graduated—you know, went into school, they gave you everything you need. The hardest—really, the adjustment





period was, I didn't have a very tough time to say because I—you know, it’s something I was looking forward to, but something I dreaded at the same time because you're not, you don't know. But by being on recruiting duty, it's independent duty and you're not on the base, you’re living in the community, just have a uniform on, so it was a lot easier for me. And so, when I took my uniform off when I went on to school—now, as a veteran, now that was the hardest part because, you know, they promise you everything, but when you—I mean, don't get me wrong, I got out, I retired. First of all, if I didn't have medical disabilities, I wouldn't have been a veteran, I would’ve been a retiree, I thought that was crazy, even though when I got out, I had this, I had some disabilities, but I mean, I thought it was crazy. Now, I done served twenty years but I'm not a veteran, there's a problem with that to me. You know, you don't deserve benefits you can't get because you're a retiree. But once I, you know, I have disabilities because when I retired, I did retire with disability too. I got my regular retirement, then I got my disabilities, and I went on to school. And I found that it’s—if you are a veteran, which is good I guess for retirees just like a job, but I think it’s punishing the guy for staying in, for being a career—by having a career. If you—because if you don't, just say you forgot, go in, just say you—for guys in the military—it doesn’t mean the Marines, whatever—for two months, and he let’s say hurt his leg during basic training, he’d get this disability. And he gets more benefit than the guys that did twenty years. He does! You know, he—I mean, if he, he can go—they got what they call the vocational rehab, if you ain't got disabilities and you've got twenty years and you get out, they say you—cause I had the Vietnam





era GI bill, but when I got out, I had disabilities—no, we're gonna put you on to vocational rehab for the veterans, which is a better deal. You know, they give you everything you need, they pay for everything, all you have—they pay you to go to school, and they buy everything you need, pay all your classes, whereas they, if you retire, you know, they'll give you a certain amount of money and that's it, you're on your own. And I thought that was a little different. Even if a guy stay in two months and just say he hurt his back, you know, he gets 100% of disability, and a guy—he make E7, he do twenty years to guy, you know, stay in two months, hurt his back, retirement’s better than the guys staying in twenty- something years, I don’t understand. You know, people went to war and did something I can understand, but just, you know. And so, it was kind of tough in the sense to see, but once I—when I got my veteran status, I mean, it was a little different. You know, some benefits I couldn't get because I was a retiree, but the basic benefits I could get, for instance my children could go to school. If you retire, you're contributing—you got to pay for your kids’ school, but if you’re disabled and your kids go, they'll pay for your kids’ school, pay them to go to school. I mean, so, it was a little different—there’s stuff you don't even know. And it was hard getting you—if you got hurt in the service and it's in your records, if you don't go to—if you been in, which is twenty years, if you do twenty years—we call them sickbay commandos, even if they go to the doctor to check on themselves, but if it's not in your record, it never happened. Matter of fact, I know a guy now that’s in the Army, retired, and he had cancer, meaning he got cancer and he said, “Well they told me that this—” I said, “Well man, you had cancer,





you’re just in remission, cancer!” And he still fighting it, so it’s a little different in that aspect, but as far as the adjustment period, I can understand because I met a guy in the Army, he was a First Sergeant in the 82nd airborne in the Army, and he had problems adjusting. I was retired, he was retired, and—I'll never forget, we were both in the sun and he says, he was crying “I'm gonna die [inaudible 55:54] I said, “Man, you need to get yourself together or you gonna die.” I mean, you know, I'm talking to him like this because me and him have been in the same situation, it's just that my mindset was totally different from his, you know, because I realized one thing that—everything gonna go on, man. You get too old for something. I mean, you know, I knew I'm just only here temporarily, so when—and so I was planning on going to school and doing all this when I retired anyway. But if you ain't got the right mindset, it can be a problem. You know, I had a friend that was a Vietnam vet and I was, he was my boss for four years, and then I went on and, you know, we became friends and he retired, and it was—and I was still in, and I'll never forget he had, he had been to Vietnam twice, and he had—he owned his own [inaudible 57:03] he was doing pretty well, and he had an aneurysm over his eye. And he had filed for his agent orange, you know, but when he got that aneurysm, he went to the VA and they gave him all the bad benefits. But like five years later, he had a massive stroke and died— and, you know, and I was thinking about stuff like that. And he was at Camp Lejeune and at Camp Lejeune, I don't know if your father read that they, they got, they had some problems with the water from nineteen. See, I fell in there, because I was stationed there now for years. And you often think about stuff like





that, but you know that, you know, so—but as far as a male, you have to kind of just get your mind right, because one thing you learn about being in the service, in the military period, is they make the calls. So, you know, you just got—a guy [inaudible 58:17] telling me, older white gentleman named Joe, he was in the Marine Corps for—he said, “Look, just get it, give it to your kids, put it in the record book and forget about it.” Because—and that's the only thing, you know, that you would, you—I get a book every month from the Marine Corps, you know, about stuff, and you got what you call taps, you can see all ya buddies they passing chance to look at that. And I retired, I was forty-one when I retired, and I've been retired now for, what’s this, eighteen years. So I just, you know, thank God that didn't even happen, because I’ve had some problems with some stuff, but not—nothing, you know, I don't think there's life threatening. So, but it wasn’t hard, adjusting was okay, but it wasn't as difficult as some people for me, because of the route I chose.

	W:	You know, in the eighteen years that you’ve been out—you talked about going back to school, getting your education. What else did you do within, you know—

	J:	Okay, right now—



	W:	I know you said you recruited, and—



	J:	Yeah. When I retired and finished school, they told me I couldn’t work because things happened while I was in the service. And so, what I did is—if you know, I told you that I went back to school, to a degree in theology? Well, right now, I do jail ministry. I do prison ministry, jail ministry, I do work release, I'm a youth minister. Pastor said I’m the youth pastor, but I’d say I do youth ministry. And I do





nursing home ministry, so I'm really doing a lot of working for the Lord, you know?

	W:	What happened to—



	J:	Well, me and my wife, we took vacation, went on vacation, we went on a mission trip to Haiti. So, we actually paid for our mission trip—we just didn’t go over and push people around, we went out in the villages and we, you know, we actually fed people, helped them with medical problems, helped build a church. So, it's been a—it's been a journey, you know, it's been—that's what I've been doing. I'm very active, you know, in our church ministry.

	W:	And what church is that?



	J:	Mount Pure Missionary Baptist Church, on [inaudible 1:01:19] behind the flea market. And it's very rewarding, because, you know, when you're dealing with helping people, you know, that's why I joined Marine Corps anyway, to help. And when I retired—and I'll never forget, while I was in school, I was working at the VA and I took some Bible courses and I said, “Well, you know, I want to learn truth, I hear these guys talking I see thin in TV, I wanna learn truth about this.

And so, once I graduated from school, well Bible college, I was on my way back to Birmingham and for some reason the Lord didn’t allow me to go, and so I—at the pharmacy I worked at, the young lady, she said, you know, something happened, she didn't even go see my pastor. And ever since then, I've been working in, you know, Mondays—Sundays I go to the work release, Mondays I go to the county jail. Wednesdays we got Bible studies, every fourth, fifth Sunday, I go do nursing home ministry. You know, and whatever—second





Saturday of each month, we got the district [inaudible 1:02:42] you know, we did district classes. So, I'm pretty busy.

	W:	How have you seen the community; did it change over the years? J:	The community?

	W:	Yes. How do you think, how has it, how do you see it changing? You know, and what is your current, what do you see?

	J:	You know, it’s kind of hard for me in Pensacola, cause I—I do a lot of buildings, I really haven’t been, you know, our city is growing up, and I see it—the Maritime Park, you know, I remember we helped get the Maritime Park built, which is good. I notice all the young kids we get graduating from here, come from the church. They have to leave to get, really get a job paying money. We had young lady that became a nurse; she was here, she worked at Baptist, but she moved to Atlanta, because—I remember more jobs coming in, but you know, most of the jobs came through here were call centers, like West—they were West, but now [inaudible 1:04:04]. And so, it's kind of hard for me, I—it's progressing, but it's slow, it’s real slow, cause I don’t think many people in Pensacola want it to change. You know, I—it's kind of hard because it’s like, you know, I've still got the Birmingham mentality when it comes to a lot of things and—along with the way I thought in the Marine Corps—and I have some, some people have told me “man, you just [laughter] you want things to happen too fast,” you know, but—it's changing, but it's kind of slow for me. You know, I just see—I know, I just noticed all the kids we have—like, we have a young man, he wants to be a even…he's a mortician and he went to Jacksonville, never came back. It's just like, it's—I don't





know how they can, how they gonna do it as far as—cause no industry is moving in. You know, you know what I'm saying? It's—and so, if you don't know somebody, it's hard to make—I mean, you can get a job, but just a job, you know, we talking about careers. And you know, we got—when they closed [inaudible 1:05:45] what’s the international paper company, champion, they close some of that. So, you know, that's the only thing I've seen is—you know, I—this is a good area to retire in, but I don’t know so much if that’s what you want a young and you looking to—know what I mean? So…

	W:	You know, you—what about the church? I heard mention at one point in time Pensacola had more churches per capita than anywhere in [inaudible 1:06:30]—

	J:	They still got more churches per capita! I mean, look, you know I love the church, I love the gospel, but you know, I still think it’s something to be desired in there as well. It’s like—my wife is a retired police officer, and like I tell her, “Look, man,”

—and you know how policemen are, man, they go for one another—I said “You know, the law can’t be lawless. If you’re lawless, you ain’t the law.” And, you know, because she [inaudible 1:07:06] I said, so—you know, and that’s what I tell her, because you can't tell her anything otherwise. I said “10% of everything bad, that’s the way I see it.” And we got a lot of preachers, got a lot left to be desired. You know, I mean—I don't make that call though, I ain’t the big guy, so—but, you know, I just think if you ain't gonna do it right, you don’t need to do it at all. But you got people holding them up, and that's—if you and I are ministers, I should be able to call you to the side and say, “Hey, man, look.” You know, if it’s me and you—cause the Bible telling you to do that, pull your brother to the side. And





some of them, they won't even do that. So, you just have to shake your head. And I guess I might be more of—I guess I might be a little bit harder, I don't know, it's—maybe I don’t, the way I see things is a little bit differently. You know, you gotta hold the person accountable. I mean, you know, if a person mess up, you hold them accountable. You don't put them back in the same position, you know, you can forgive them, but—you know. And I see too much of people just turning the other way look, you know, person—God is righteous. He punish sin cause he righteous, if he don't punish it then he ain’t God. You see what I’m saying? So, you know. So, I feel if a guy do something wrong, we need to be pulled down—I mean, we can forgive him, but—hey, if he earns to work his way back up, that's fine. But he needs to know that, hey, we can't condone what he's doing. And if that's the case, we get problems. So, but that's the way I see.

	W:	How do you see—you know, you talked about how much the church played a role in your youth. As a youth minister, what role do you see, or do you see the church still being that same role with the youths of the community?

	J:	Yes, and I say this because—if you notice, I said we have youth coming through, that get to jobs and they're going and doing other places, they are successful.

They are—and we have people, children around here that are successful. I mean, they're very, the church is very—if you teach what you teach, you just teach the kids right, the moral and faith, faith is some—and it’s an individual thing, but you got to teach them the truth, the unadulterated truth. And if you teaching the kids the truth, it will play a part in their life. But you got to teach them the truth. If it's not the truth, than you’re hurting them, you’re harming them more





than you’re helping them, because, you know—again, most of your worldview comes through, you know, how you see things in life? You know, to me, that's the scripture. Proverbs fourteen and twelve, it says, “There's a way that seemth right to a man but onto him is the ways of death” If you see it like that then it’s death, but if you see it right, if you see—you see? It all depends on how you see life, and if you teach them right, you know. We got so many kids now, and on this prosperity gospel and—my, I got a daughter, thirty-eight now, tell her right now “Baby, life ain’t about money.” You know, if—you know, “but dad,” I said “Listen, money can’t make you happy.” You know, people—you know, I could’ve went on to school instead of joining the Marine Corps and made a lot more money, you know, but because I wanted to do this, I was happy. You know, so—and so, and that's what I'm saying, if you teach them right, the way to do things right in life like that, but you got to see it right, or else if—you know, it all depends on how you see life.

	W:	Well, you know, Mr. Johnson, we’ve been speaking for over an hour—I think in closing, would there be any final words you’d like to share with us?

	J:	I just—[laughter]—I just hope I answered the questions the way you wanted [inaudible 1:12:14] spend all day—

	W:	You did what you—what you, you did well.



	J:	And I just appreciate the opportunity to get a chance to talk to you. W:	Well, we thank you for your time, man.

	J:	Alright, have a blessed one. W:	You too.





[End of interview]



	Transcribed by:	Jessica Alvarez, February 24, 2021 Audit Edit by:	Kasamba Kokayi March 12th, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, March 15, 2021