AAHP 110; Dennis; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 110 Kenneth Dennis African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on August 21, 2010 5 minutes | 4 pages



Abstract: Kenneth Dennis was interviewed at the Jerkins Community Center in Perry, Florida. Mr. Dennis graduated from Taylor County High School, and at the time of the interview was serving as a member of the school board. He discusses different phases of a project he is involved in to preserve and revitalize Jerkins High and the African American community in Perry. He says this effort and events such as the ongoing reunion are a way to “rekindle” the pride and dignity of the Black community. After the interview, Mr. Dennis is going to speak at the reunion and he wants to discuss how the community needs to communicate and be encouragement to each other.





Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School]

















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP110

Interviewee: Kenneth Dennis Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: August 21, 2010



	W:	This is August 21, 2010, Marna Weston for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the Jerkins Community Center, formerly Jerkins High School in Perry, Florida. And I am speaking with Mr. Dennis who is a member of the school board and also a Jerkins High School graduate.

	D:	I came from Taylor County High. W:	Okay.

	D:	I went here two years.



	W:	Okay he graduated from Taylor County High. Thank you for the correction. Thank you for speaking with me, sir.

	D:	Yes, sir. My pleasure,



	W:	Could you please state your full name? D:	Full name is Kenneth R. Dennis,

	W:	And what is your date and place of birth? D:	December 10, [19]53.

	W:	And where were you born? D:	Perry, Florida.

	W:	Have you been here all your life, most of your life? D:	Most of it.

	W:	Okay and also your professional capacity in the community—I know you are an entrepreneur and an elected official—could you describe what your official capacities in the community are please?





	D:	Well as a board member, we create policy for our school system and that’s generally administered by our administrative staff and we basically just approve of it or disapprove. And pretty well policy is what we do as a board.

	W:	This is an exciting afternoon and weekend here at Jerkins where there will be the dedication of the historic marker as well as the celebration of the many classes that have come back. How do you feel about being here today and why is this so exciting?

	D:	Well it is exciting because of—this place was a landmark that gave us a sense of pride as a Black community and because of that I just feel like we need to try to keep that heritage going. I’m now engaged myself in a project as a chairman to do a renovation of the walkways here—that will be Phase One. Phase Two we would like to also revitalize bathroom facilities in this cafeteria. We only have one bathroom and we need male-female bathrooms. And then Phase Three we would like to really be able to redo something in regard to the parking lot so that it will be sufficient. This is a community center-slash-precinct thirteen so the county and the city have involvement in this, and we are hoping we get support from them as well.

	W:	That sounds thrilling. Having spoken with only a few of the graduates but being around the excitement of last night and today, a lot of people are really happy that this is occurring. I wanted to let you know, how do you think that this situation—having the celebration and dedication—affects the development of leadership in the community? And I ask that because the Taylor County Leadership Association had a primary role in helping get this going.





	D:	I think its rekindling the fire of the pride and the dignity that we had as a Black community. Jerkins was a—I call it a centerpiece and a role model for this community. And when integration came in, somewhat we lost that identity. And so I think this is a rekindling and a restoring of that pride and dignity that we need as a community.

	W:	In building leaders and seeing leadership come from this heritage of the educational base in the community, do you have a definition of leadership and what would that be?

	D:	Well my definition would be is do onto others as you will have them do onto you. I think we need more role models on the role of the two greatest commandments: love God with all your heart, then love your neighbor as yourself. And we should portray that in the community that our youth will be able to discover the God that brought us out through our hard times in slavery.

W:  You are going to have a few words on the program in a little while, and I want to know have you thought about what you are going to say to capture the moment and could you share just a little bit of that in a preview in this interview?

	D:	Well just basics, just celebrating with them, encouraging with them to communicate and reflect on their past, and be able to recognize where we are today, and basically try to be of encouragement to each other.

	W:	They are talking about having another reunion two years from now. What do you expect to happen between now and then with this enthusiasm and momentum? Do you expect it to continue, what are your expectations toward that?





	D:	My expectation is that it will continue. We have had some struggles in the community with communication with each other. That project that I mentioned earlier—in terms of beautifying this facility, in terms of revitalization—I’m hoping that that will bring the community together and we take back ownership in this project.

	W:	Uh-huh. Well thank you very much, Mr. Dennis, for speaking with me today. On behalf of our Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, we thank you. And I like to close every interview by offering the person I spoke with the chance to have any reflection or observation they might, you know, have on the interview or about anything else and at the end of those comments that will conclude the interview.

	D:	Well I appreciate the opportunity to be able to express my opinion and I just believe that we will take back this heritage of the Jerkins site. Thank you.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Liz Gray, May 9, 2013



	Audio edited by:	Anna Jimenez, June 18, 2013 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019