AAHP 082; Gordon; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 082 Hazel Gordon

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Chris May on June 15, 2010

12 minutes | 6 pages



Abstract: Hazel Gordon was raised in Gainesville, Florida, and discusses her experiences in and reflections on Lincoln High School. She was going to Lincoln when schools were integrated and she was transferred to Howard Bishop Middle School. She describes a considerable disparity between the school environment she remembers at Lincoln and what she perceives as the current conditions of schools. She also relates that she met her husband at Lincoln High in seventh grade, and they started dating seriously in eleventh grade. She also offers some thoughts on the presidency of Barack Obama and the prospects of ending racism in the future.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Integration; Lincoln High School]













































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 082

Interviewee: Hazel Gordon Interviewer: Chris May Date: June 15, 2010



	M:	Ok, so just wondering where are you from like your childhood and stuff? G:	I am from here, Gainesville Florida, been born and raised right here in

Gainesville.



		M:	All right, awesome, awesome. What was your family life like, like parents siblings? G:		I have—my mom is still living; I just lost my dad less than a year ago.

	M:	I’m sorry.



	G:	And I have two brothers and three sisters.



	M:	Very nice, very nice. What are your thoughts on Lincoln High and all that like when it was shut down and segregated, and all that, lik,e what are your thoughts on that?

	G:	Well during the time I did not get the opportunity to graduate from Lincoln. It was integrated my ninth grade year, I went to Lincoln seventh, eighth and part of ninth and when Lincoln was integrated, I was transferred to Howell Bishop Middle School, but at the time of integration and the closing of Lincoln, there were quite a few emotions as I could remember, there were sadness. Some students were upset, some were confused as to why, “Why take away what we thought belonged to us?” And scared, scared of the new experience that they were about to embark on. So yes there were quite a few emotions at that time, and it was, it just sad, it just felt like something was being taken away from us that we’ve known for so long, its like taken out of your parents house and put into a foster home you know? [Laughter]





	M:	Was, was it sad, was it like, was it really rough for you just going, experiencing, like hearing about it?

	G:	I, actually as I said I was I was in the midst, I went to Howell Bishop I believe it was in that next year, January or February, not sure exactly when it was, I was right there in the middle I was in the ninth grade. Sure, it was sad, because I was leaving some of the friends that I had already established a relationship with along with some of the teachers. Lincoln was a place as, if I could quote John Dukes, who is one of the administrators there, he said that “Lincoln is a place where teachers could teach and students could learn.”

	M:	Mmhm.



	G:	And that’s pretty much what it was, there were few discipline problems, there were—teen pregnancy was not heard of. It was not an issue. If there was a female that got pregnant, she was kinda like ostracized, she had to kinda like leave; it was not very acceptable as it is now. It was not made glamorous, it was—I don’t know what to say, frowned upon, because that was not what was taught, and Lincoln was like a family sort of. Lincoln was in the community where some of the teachers lived. Some of the parents lived, the students lived, so they all lived in the same neighborhood, they knew each other some went to church with the teachers and it was just like a level of respect. Everybody respected each other, its not like it is now, excuse me, where the teachers not respected, I mean being defiant was very—I mean it was not, I guess as prevalent as is now, it was not, it was it was just a community, it was a high level or respect for





teachers and teachers taught us what they thought we needed to survive. Along with the curriculum, there were also live skills that were taught.

	M:	All right, the size, the closeness, the togetherness, and all the good things; what were some of your favorite memories from back then?

	G:	My favorite memory besides all of that I just said was meeting my husband. M:	Wow, very nice. [Laughter]

	G:	I was in the, seventh grade when I first saw him, my best friend was a riff, was a friend of his, they lived in the same community, my husband lived like maybe ten, twelve miles from the school, they were bused in, so were we, but we were out, I lived closer, and so my best friend and I used to just sit and talk and one day she showed me my husband and she said, “He’s kinda cute, isn’t he?” And I said, “Yes he is,” and that’s when I first saw him. We didn’t say anything; I was in seventh grade. So all that year I kinda just looked at him, and he looked at me, and we just smiled and waved at each other and that was it. Because our focus was pretty much not to be flirty but to be educated and that was it; you were here to learn. And eighth grade we saw each other again, and then I think we had a small conversation that came up and we talked a little bit. By the end of eighth grade, we had that little crush—you know, boyfriend and girlfriend. By the end of ninth grade, we really talked. Then school was integrated and I didn’t see him ‘til maybe I think it was the end of my 11th grade year, by that time I was at Gainesville high school and that’s when we started talking and got back together, and that’s the way it is. And history was made. [Laughter]

	M:	How long was it until you guys got married?





	G:	Let’s see, we got engaged after I graduated from high school. I was going to Santa Fe so I was about nineteen. Two years, two years later we were married and we’ve been married since.

	M:	That is awesome, congratulations [Laughter]. What are your thoughts on the Obama election like?

	G:	My thoughts as—?



	M:	To like how did it make you feel, like do you agree with all his policies, his views.



	G:	Well the thing that I agreed with most was the healthcare, yes because health care is a big issue. There are so many people without health insurance and I just think it’s so unfair. It’s unfortunate because they can’t afford it, it should not make them not have it. There are so many other agencies and other organizations that are, you know, that I feel could contribute to the health care budget, there’s a lot of money that some how I think could be rerouted, and to help the less fortunate. I mean we are here as helpers, we are here to help each other. If your by the road and you broke down and you know would it be fair if I just passed by you and leave you there? Now we’re here to help each other, I mean we are, my belief is that we are here to put on earth to help and to serve and to save.

	M:	Mmhm.



	G:	And I think no one should be without health care because they can’t afford it, it’s just, a lot of time people are put in a position, it’s not that you know “Oh well they are just not working,” even if they may have lost their job, if they are put in a position that it was not, no fault of their own, like because like with Lincoln, it was no fault of ours. But we were just put in that, found ourselves in that position.





	M:	What are some changes, like, that you think can still be done, like societies changes, like, from back then to now, stuff that hasn’t changed, things like racism is still prevalent. What do you think we should do to end racism?

	G:	What should we do to end racism? I think we should all get back to the principle that America was built upon. And that is, that principle is to do right and justice for all regardless of the color, the nationality, the religion, the faith, whatever it is. We are people and we all have the same emotions. We all have the same needs. We should all be treated the same way and I think a lot of the anger and a lot of the violence and all of that stem from a lack of respect. And I think that if we just showed the respect and just lets, let each other know that we care about each other and not look down upon each other because we may have, some may have a little bit more than the other, does not make you any better because we’re all, the way I see it, were all the same because I think that is again my belief, my faith is that this is the way God is. God looks at us all as his people, we are all God’s people, he wants us to serve and help each other and be humble. Walk humbly, you know, in a day to day basis, just respect and honor and help and love and care for each other. And I think if we go back to those principles that America was built upon, I don’t think there should not be a problem. I think we should, again treat each other just the way we would like to be treated, think about if we were in this situation, how would we want to be treated.

		M:	I’ve heard you mention like your views. Are you religious at all like with your faith? G:		Yes.

	M:	What faith?





	G:	I am a Methodist.



	M:	Okay. I think that’s about it. [Laughter] [End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, August 24, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019