AAHP 277; Gainey; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 277 Eugene Gainey African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Bryan Williams on June 23, 2012 54 minutes | 20 pages

















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 277

Interviewee: Eugene Gainey Interviewer: Byran Williams Date: June 23, 2012



	W:	Hello, my name is Byran Williams, with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Today is June the 23rd, 2012. And this time, we’re interviewing Reverend Eugene Gainey, retired pastor out of Gainesville, Florida. Former citizen of High Springs. Thank you Mr. Gainey for meeting with me today. First of all, where were you born?

	G:	Columbia County.



	W:	Columbia County. Is that in the area called Scrubtown?



	G:	No, it’s sort of beyond Fort White. Back in that area. Go up to Fort White, go back and turn on that road back in there. I don’t know where it was, but I was born in that area.

	W:	In Columbia County?



	G:	Yeah, in Columbia County.



	W:	So, when did your parents move in this area? G:	They came to this area in 1936.

	W:	In [19]36. So y’all stayed here in town? In High Springs? G:	No, we stayed out in the country.

	W:	The country.



	G:	Yeah.



	W:	Out in that area called Asbury?



	G:	No, not Asbury. Down there beyond Betty and Don, where they used to live.



Betty Zimmer and Don.



	W:	Yes, sir.







G:

It’s about three miles out.

W:

What was your parents’ name?

G:

Joseph Gainey. Roxy Gainey.

W:

Roxy Gainey. Do you have sisters and brothers?

G:

I had. It was eight of us.

W:

Eight?

G:

Four girls and four boys.

W:

Yes, sir. And which number is where you came in at?

G:

Let’s see—seven.

W:

Seventh kid. Okay. Do you remember your grandparents?

G:

I saw only one of my grandparents. That was my daddy’s mother.

W:

Daddy’s mother. What do you remember about her?

G:

She stayed with us when she got healing in 1939.

W:

Was she born into slavery?

G:

I don’t remember that. I don’t know whether she was or not, but she probably



could have been.

W:

Did she ever tell you any stories of things she faced in her lifetime?

G:

No, no. She wasn’t there too long. We were small, and she died no too long after



she was there with us.

W:

Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Where did you attend elementary school?

G:

First school I attend was in Asbury settlement out there.

W:

Asbury.





	G:	There was a two-room school. The teacher that was there, Mrs. Ramsey, my first teacher. She did first up to sixth, I believe it was.

	W:	Okay, so that just a one-room school?



	G:	Two school rooms. Each room had seats in it. And she did first, second, third, on up to—.

	W:	To sixth grade?



	G:	Uh-huh.



	W:	Okay.



	G:	Sixth. I believe it was sixth.



	W:	What do you remember about that building which y’all was in?



	G:	I remember that we had to tote wood in to fire. To put in the heater to make heat that we can warm by.

	W:	Yes, sir.



	G:	We had to go out and hunt wood. Sometime, we would go out the woods and cut wood, and bring it back to the school.

	W:	So it wasn’t no such as lunch rooms, and—? G:	Well, we brought our food.

	W:	Do you remember you had for lunch?



	G:	I brought stuff from home. My momma fixed us a lunch. Like, egg sandwiches and stuff like that. We had a refrigerator at school.

	W:	Yes, sir. Okay. At Asbury, you went to elementary school and middle school at that school.

	G:	No. When the grades stopped, then we had to High Springs.





	W:	To Douglass?



	G:	To Douglass. To Douglass.



	W:	Okay. So what do you remember about Douglass?



	G:	Well, I remember about Douglass, I tried to play basketball, and I couldn’t. [Laughter]

	G:	And Mr. Caffey, I don’t reckon you remember him. W:	No, I am sorry.

	G:	Yeah, he tried to teach me how to shoot the ball from— W:	From the chest.

	G:	Chest. And I couldn’t do that to save my life. But anyway, he tried to teach me. He said, you just not going to learn how to shoot from the chest. I don’t know what year it was. Don’t remember. But when they organized a football team at Douglass, Mr. Gill was the coach. And I played two seasons. And reason I stopped, Donald Hastings, a boy give me a mighty bad hit in the stomach with his foot. Yeah, and that thing hurt me so bad, I got off the team. [Laughter] I didn’t want no more of that!

	W:	No more of that, huh? G:	No, no, no, no.

	W:	Yes, sir.



	G:	That was a hurting thing. And I said, if I have to go through that, I don’t want to play no more football.

	W:	It knocked the wind out of you.



	G:	Yeah. Donald Hastings. I couldn’t hardly walk.





	W:	What do you remember about Douglass?



	G:	I remember that the basketball court was outside, where we played basketball. Dirt court. Played basketball there. We lived out in the country, so we couldn’t come to see basketball playing, games like that. But I was on the volleyball team.

	W:	Okay. So y’all played on a clay court? G:	Clay court.

	W:	Clay court. Are there any teachers who had a special impact in your life? G:	Yeah, Mr. Norton. C.W. Norton. He was a teacher there. He taught me. Mr.

Caffey taught me. Mrs. Taylor taught me. I never shall forget the very first day school opened up this particular year. Joseph Goodwine and me got in a fight before the school opened up the doors. We was right there to the—come in, the auditorium this way. We got up on the auditorium porch. We had a big fight. Ms. Taylor was already in the room when she heard it. She come out there. It was [inaudible 9:31]. She said, “Come on in my room. I’m going get on y’all this morning.” Boy, she tore us up! I know she did everybody else who came into her room for school, for class. But anyway, she was a strong teacher. She didn’t play with you.

	W:	Yes, sir.



	G:	She would get on you if you didn’t do right.



	W:	Yes, sir. So Ms. Taylor was a strict teacher. But I think she did it out of love, because she cared about our lives.

	G:	Yeah, I know. That means she was teaching us not to fight one another. W:	Yes, sir.





	G:	Yes.



	W:	Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Anything else you remember about Douglass?



	G:	Yeah, I remember—I think, I was under three principals. When I went there, Mr. Jones was principal. I had some issues. Then Clayton Whitfield was the principal. And it was another one.

	W:	Mr. Perkins?



	G:	No, not Perkins. W:	Jones?

	G:	Not Mr. Jones.



	W:	I can’t remember the rest of them.



	G:	Two brothers. One was a Alachua County [inaudible 11:45] person. Brother was—well, skip on. Can’t think of his name.

	W:	That’s okay. Did you and your family attend church when you were growing up?



	G:	Yes. My mother and the children went to church, but I never did know my daddy to go to church. He would go to funerals. He never went to church on Sundays. There was a funeral, a person that he knew, he would go to the funeral.

	W:	Yes, sir. How did y’all go to church? G:	Walk.

	W:	You’d walk?



	G:	Yeah.



	W:	How many miles?



	G:	You know where Betty and Don Zimmerman? W:	Mmhm.





	G:	Just through there. Out there? W:	On 236.

	G:	No, no. Going out of town here on that road there. Going east on it. The traffic light down there? Go that way, go on east. The road makes a curve there, and dirt road, this is where. About a mile and a half down there where we stayed in. Betty and Don stayed there before we got to our house. We had to about a mile and a half.

	W:	So I’m quite sure over a mile. G:	Hm?

	W:	I’m quite sure over a mile.



	G:	Yeah. It was about three miles from town out there.



	W:	Yes, sir. So, growing up in the church, what kind of impact that had on your life? G:	When I was in Columbia County, the Zimmerman boys and me, their brothers,

we had a little quartet. Singing songs on Sunday morning and stuff like that for Sunday school. So, that’s what we did. We didn’t stay over there but a year.

Moved back into this county over here, Alachua County. My daddy was a sharecropper. I think when he didn’t do good, he had to move someplace else.

	W:	Yes, sir. Back in those days, was there any kind of programs that y’all was involved with as kids? So like, these days they got Boy Scouts, and 4-H Club, and stuff like that?

	G:	No, no, no.



	W:	No kind of organized programs?





	G:	We didn’t know what that was until I grew up. Then I knew what that was. Well, we just didn’t know what that was. Nothing like that. We didn’t get a chance to go to nothing like that.

	W:	So as a kid, what did y’all do for fun? What kind of activity y’all did?



	G:	For fun, what we did? We made our stuff to have fun with. We would take a gallon syrup bucket and put the lid back on it, put a hole in each end, and run a wire through there, and we’d put the wire around our waist, and just run down the road with it. And then, we got wise. We took a saw and cut down a tree, and took a boring bit, and bore a hole in there. A tire. This is what we going use for a tire. And we made wagons, and we pulled that. We would ride one another in there.

Pull it around, stuff like that. We made our own fun stuff. Didn’t have no store- bought stuff. The only time we got store-bought stuff, when Christmastime come. We’d go and get us a cap pistol. Each one of us would get a cap pistol and a roll of caps, and then on to zappers and cans and stuff like that. Wasn’t much to be had in our house like that.

	W:	Yes, sir. Wasn’t no bicycles and baby dolls.



	W:	No, wasn’t no bicycles. One year—and I was about sixteen or seventeen—the hardware store over there where Railroad Street come out? Right there was a hardware store, and they sold bicycles. And me and my daddy was in there, and I wanted a bicycle. He didn’t want to buy it, but the man told him, “Yeah, you ought to buy him a bicycle.” So he broke down and bought me a bicycle. That’s the only one we had, I had, when I was that old. We just didn’t have moneys to buy stuff like that.





	G:	Yes, sir. So your daddy was a sharecropper. Did y’all have to work in the farms, too, in the fields?

	W:	Yeah.



	G:	What was that like?



	W:	It was like not being able to go to school. When you get out of school, you come home and go in the field and pull weeds out of peanuts and stuff like that. Peanut was planted. We just had—not a bad way of living, but we just had to do, because wasn’t but one of daddy. And when school was out in the day, we go out in the field. And then, when school was out for the year, then we had to— they’d plow up the peanuts, shake them out, let them dry, and then put them on the stack. And peanut picker come in and pick them, peanuts off the vine. Then they bale the hay. All that stuff we had to do. But now, last of all, we went to another place, and we had peanuts and tobacco. So, that was the running thing that time where we went. We had to plant tobacco, do everything. So.

	G:	How old were you when you started working in the fields? W:	When I start working?

	G:	Mmhm.



	W:	Seventeen.



	G:	So as a little boy, you didn’t have to work in the fields?



	W:	Yeah. I started working in the fields around about nine or ten. I left home in 1950. We had planted tobacco. We was cropping tobacco out in the field. And we was hurrying up, and I got a bad cough. I couldn’t stand up on my feet. I couldn’t even much help them finish up stringing tobacco. I laid down on the ground. And when





I turned around, I say, “I’m not going to put my hands on no more tobacco. We get through and sell this, I am not going to work on nobody’s field.”

	G:	How old were you? Seventeen then? W:	Yeah.

	G:	Yes, sir. So clearly, that’s the time you kind of knew which way you wanted to go in life?

	W:	So what did you want to be in life?



	G:	I wanted to be a doctor. That was my outlook. I wanted to be that. But somehow or another, when I left home, I knew I had to get a job. So I got a job, went to school at night. Got married. Then come a child. And I wanted to go into Army. I tried every one of the branches: Army, Navy—.

	W:	Air Force? Marines? G:	Air Force.

	W:	Marines?



	G:	Yeah, Marines. And every one that was down in the post office downtown. Every one of them branches was in the post office. I went to the Army right on down.

Every one of them told me, “Well, we not taking married men. The only way we would be able to take married men is if we done got those [inaudible 23:46].

Called up to go in Army, and war break out? Then we have to come back and get you married men. But we don’t take married mens until we get everybody.

	W:	They wanted the single mens first. G:	Yeah, single mens.

	W:	So what kind of work you did when you—?





	G:	When I left home? I left home, I started off with a man that had a junkyard.



Automobile junkyard. He hired me. I worked out there two weeks. He had me going out there in the yard, pulling parts off cars. Then, when he don’t have nothing like that to do, then he had a paper-binding machine. Case for a box of newspaper. Had me putting it in there and binding up. And I didn’t like that. When two weeks was up, I didn’t go back and finish up. I didn’t go back, because I didn’t like that kind of. Just heading out there in the yard out there and pulling parts. And doing this here. I didn’t like that.

	W:	Yes, sir. So, when did you become a preacher?



	G:	I became a preacher. I had the calling for six years. I didn’t do it. I just ran around out there. And every time I would go to church and sit up in the church, it just seemed like somebody was sitting on the seat with me. I talked to the preacher. Brought him aside. That was [19]60, the year [19]60, went down to [19]67, and I told my pastor, Reverend Till. And he said, “Boy, that’s nothing but God calling you to preaching.” And I told my other pastor before. He said, “Well, Gainey, you won’t be satisfied until you do what the Lord wants you to do.” I ran six years.

Then I did my sermon, a trial sermon, in 1967 on a Tuesday. And four months later, they called me to First Baptist. They was having church out there on Eighth Avenue behind Mount Carmel out there? Antioch Holiness church. Antioch Holiness had first and third, and we were second, fourth. So, when I got there, they asked me about, “We want to build a church. And we got eighteen thousand dollars.” They already had the blueprints. I told them, “Yeah, I will work with you. So we build a church on Fifteen Street. You ever been there?





	W:	Yes.



	G:	To where I pastor? W:	Mmhm.

	G:	I built that. And before I even build that, before I even saw the blueprint, I dreamed that I had built a church. And coming in the kitchen, in the dining room area, you walk all the way down Carter, and I saw all of that in my dream. I never saw the blueprint, but when they built it, I told the builders, this is the same thing I had a dream about.

	W:	Yes, sir.



	G:	Uh-huh. And just like I dreamt, it came out like that. You can walk from the dining room area right straight on back into the wall in my office, back there on the side. I could come out the office and go down this way into the church. But I go this way, because I get a drink of water on my way.

	W:	Yes, sir. So that’s the only church you pastor?



	G:	I pastor two churches. St. Joseph out in Archer, and the First Missionary Baptist. I spent ten years and four months out there in St. Joseph in Archer. And I spent thirty-five years in First Missionary Baptist. Built it. Then I told them I was going to retire when I reached seventy, so I did that. Then they got a pastor. That one didn’t work out. Then they got another one. That one didn’t work out. Then they asked me to come back, and I went back again four months. So I spent thirty-six years, four months there before I retired.





W:  Yes, sir. That is wonderful. Yes, sir. What opportunities are available for your children and your grandchildren that was not available for you when you was coming up, that you can see?

	G:	Oh! Things a hundred percent different then what it was when I was coming up. These children got a gold spoon in they mouth, or in they hands. Whatever they want to do, it is there for them. But when I came along, we didn’t have that. All we did, went to school for a while, work in the field, and that sort of stuff. But these children, if they get to schooling, they won’t have to work in nobody’s field. It’s already mapped out. You can be what you want to be.

	W:	Mmhm. Yes, sir. So what kind of challenges or difficulties that you went through in your life, as you was coming up as a young man? Family and—?

	G:	Well, my daddy didn’t bother with us at all. He was our daddy, but he was right there in the house, he and Momma was together. But he never did whip us. My momma did all the whipping. If you did something, and she didn’t know it or we get in a fight around there? She would have us to go and cut a switch for her, and a switch for me, and a switch for my brother. Didn’t do the little boy. When we would get in a fight, she would make us whip one another. She had a switch, and she say, “You better whip one another. If you don’t, I’m going whip you.” So, I would whip. He would whip. When we get through, then she would whip us. I had a good background so far as growing up from a baby up to a teenager. My daddy wouldn’t whip you for nothing. I don’t think he was a whipper.

	W:	He wasn’t a disciplinarian.





	G:	Yeah, he wasn’t a disciplinarian. And momma did all of that. And I appreciate it now, because I’ve never been in trouble. None of that. And I didn’t go to jukes, because I was scared of them. Because I heard too much about stray bullets getting in there. And if somebody asked somebody to shoot around there, you don’t know who it’s going get. So, I didn’t bother about that. I believe always— when I was converted, I believed God had already saw me becoming the preacher from my young age up.

	W:	Yes, sir. He had predestined you. G:	Yeah, predestined.

	W:	Yes, sir.



	G:	All the way from my childhood, I didn’t want to be around these kind of things, where it’s all that rigmarole and stuff like that. I tried to stay away from the jukes and all the like. Stuff like that. I didn’t want to hang around there, because I was scared somebody would get to shooting around there, and it might happen to hit me. So, I stayed away from that.

	W:	Yes, sir. In the [19]60s during the Civil Rights Movement, what do you remember about that?

	G:	Oh, I remember a lot about that. I remember the NAACP here in Gainesville invited Martin Luther King to come to Gainesville, but he didn’t come. But he sent Reverend Abernathy. Sent him in his place. And at the same time, Stokely Carmichael?

	W:	Mmhm.





	G:	He was supposed to come, and the people were scared in Gainesville. They wanted to know when he was coming, what he going do, blah, blah, blah. They were scared around in Gainesville, but he didn’t come. But Ralph Abernathy came, and made the speech that Martin Luther King was going do, but he didn’t come. But anyway, I was a whole lot in that civil rights thing in Gainesville. Yeah.

	W:	Yes, sir. So, there was a lot of racial tension in Gainesville during that time? G:	That time. You know when they integrated the University of Florida?

	W:	Yes.



	G:	Lot of tension then. They didn’t want them to go to school there. And Reverend Wright’s children, one of his children and another boy—I think it was three or four of them—they were the first ones to integrate the University of Florida. It was hot around there for a while. But when the—was it the president? Or somebody said, they said that they can go to school anywhere they wanted to go. But that came changing by letting you go to the White school, but closing down the Black school.

	W:	Yes, sir. So I’m quite sure you can reflect on the time when you had to use different water fountains.

	G:	Yeah, yeah.



	W:	How’d that make you feel? Knowing that you were discriminated like that?



	G:	It made me angry inside, and there was nothing I could do about it. Because they had a water fountain for you, and for the White. And it had up there, “White only.” “Colored only.” Couldn’t go in the restroom. “White only.” “Colored only.” Now, that made no sense for me, because they got to build two restrooms—one for the





Black man, one for the White man—when we all could use the same one, and not spend all that much money. But they had us separated. Couldn’t do nothing about it. I saw a movie. She played that picture, and they showed where nobody could not drink out of the fountain but White people. She had walked a long way from the road down to where the water fountain was. She took her time, and walked all the way down there. And when she got down there, she just bent over and flipped it. Went down and drank water from the fountain, and nobody didn’t bother with her then. Cicely Tyson.

	W:	Cicely Tyson.



	G:	Yes, Cicely Tyson. And that was a good picture. It showed somebody standing up for your own people that can’t go there. Other words, she showed that she had nerve enough to go and do it.

	W:	Yes, sir. So, how do you think the political climate has changed in your lifetime? G:	Political climate?

	W:	Yeah.



	G:	Well, it’s changed a whole lot. When I came along, there was not any voting.



Now, I didn’t see that back in my day. But people beyond me, they couldn’t vote. But then, there came a time, now, when the laws were changed that Black people could vote. And I don’t understand today why Black people don’t get out and vote. They’ll say, they going do what they want to do. But your vote may be the one needed to get a thing over. But people don’t want to vote. I work to the polls every year when it’s time to vote. I do the local, and then I do the national.

	W:	What did the election of Barack Obama in 2008 mean to you?





	G:	I was glad he was elected. First Black man becoming president of these United States of America. Wanted him to be elected. And right now, everything I know about him that he’s going to be making a speech somewhere, if I don’t be home, I’m going watch that tonight.

	W:	Yes, sir.



	G:	Because these White people don’t want him in there, and we understand that. I understand it. Because Romney is always talking about, “We got to get him out!” Now they didn’t say that about Jimmy Carter. Nobody say they was going get him out, but they lost the race. But that was all right. They didn’t go around talking about, “We got to get him out of there.” I guess Obama shouldn’t have stated that. He said, “If I don’t do this and do this in the first term, I’ll be a one-term president.” They don’t want him in there. They won’t work with him. They won’t pass his stuff that he sends up to the Capitol Hill. Won’t pass it and stuff like that. And he just be hammering on it and hammering on it, and they still won’t do it. He sends stuff up on the Hill, and they won’t do it. And I said to myself, I said, “They don’t want him even as president, because he has done so much. And they think he had something to do with the”—what is it? This—I don’t know. Something.

What is happening with the—when we got in there, he did something to bring the banks—.

	W:	With the economy. G:	Yeah, the economy. W:	Yes, sir.





	G:	That money that he let the banks have, and the automobile industry. I haven’t heard him say it in a long time, but he said he got all of that back from Chrysler. Was it Chrysler?

	W:	Chrysler, GM.



	G:	Yeah, GM Motors. Yeah, he got all that back. And calling him, “He spends too much.” I don’t hear him spending the money. All I hear, he got this for the—what do you call it? Where they call it something? When they got the Chrysler, the automobile industry out of the—?

	W:	The bailout?



	G:	The bailout. Yeah. Bailouts. And they want to put everything on him, but the thing was going downhill before he even got in there. So, I don’t know. But they naturally don’t want him in there.

	W:	Did you ever think you would see an African American in the White House in your lifetime?

	G:	No. No, I didn’t. I didn’t think that I had no inkling about that, because Reverend—didn’t he run?

	W:	Oh, Jesse Jackson. G:	Jesse Jackson.

	W:	And Al Sharpton ran. G:	And Al Sharpton. Yeah. W:	Yes, sir.





	G:	They didn’t make it. But here’s a man came out just one or two years as a senator in Congress. And then he left that and went and to run for president, and he got it. And I hope that he can make it back another time.

	W:	Yes, sir.



	G:	Next four years.



	W:	Yes, sir. All right. Anything else you’d like to share with me before we end the interview? Anything else you think you’d like to share?

	G:	Oh, lastly, were you up there when Whitfield was principal? W:	No, sir. Mr. Welsh was the principal out there.

	G:	Well, Clayton Whitfield was the principal, and he married a teacher out of the school. I don’t remember what her name was. But they got married while they was here teaching in Douglass. She lost her ring sitting out there in the back of the school. There was one big tree back there, and it was sandy. The teachers used to go out there, some of them, sit up out there at lunchtime and eat out there. And she lost her ring. And I was saying, I wish I could find it. Because her principal had said, “Whoever find it, we’ll give you ten dollars.” I was out there one day, and I had been praying, “I hope I can find it.” I’m trying to find it. And I found that ring just under the ground, under the sand. The head of it was up. And I got it. I said, “Hm. That’s her ring. Hm.” And I took to him. And if you’ve got ten dollars, I got a ring. [Laughter]

	W:	Yes, sir. Never did you get your ten dollars.



	G:	Never got my ten dollars, and both of them dead now. W:	Yes, sir.





	G:	He lied! [Laughter]



	G:	He thought somebody else could use it, but he couldn’t use it, because it was a woman’s ring, and it comes with the year that she was graduated.

	W:	Yes, sir. Yes, sir.



	G:	And I don’t know nothing else to say.



	W:	Okay, well, we thank you for this interview, and this is the conclusion of the interview. Again, we thank you, and God bless you.

	G:	You too. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Derick Gomez, July 8, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, March 21, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019