AAHP 204; Curry; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 204 Hubert Curry

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Rosalind Smith on November 6, 2011 9 minutes | 6 pages



Abstract: Hubert Curry was born in Phillipsville, Georgia in 1939. He talks about working on the cotton field at the age of six or seven in order to get some school clothes. Mr. Curry recounts his time attending an all-Black school during the time of segregation. He moved to Hallandale, Florida at the age of nine and washed dishes at an Italian restaurant. Mr. Curry then moved to Gainesville to work as a cook for a fraternity house, and he describes his experiences during the Civil Rights Movement.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; University of Florida; ]

























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 204

Interviewee: Hubert Curry Interviewer: Rosalind Smith Date: November 6, 2011



	S:	This is Hubert Curry. I just want to thank you for giving me this interview, on the behalf of the University of Florida. I just want to ask you, where were you born?

	C:	Phillipsville, Georgia.



	S:	And what year was that? C:	1939.

	S:	As you were growing up, did you work on the farm, or in the field? Or, did you work as a young boy?

	C:	Yeah, I worked at a cotton field.



	S:	Cotton field. And do you remember how old you were? C:	Yeah, about six or seven years old.

	S:	Oh, that young?



	H:	Uh-huh.



	S:	Were you working that young to help out the family, financially? C:	I worked to get me some school clothes.

	S:	Oh, school clothes. So, that would help the family out a little. Did you go to school while you were working, or was this like a summer job?

	H:	It was in the summer.



	S:	Okay. While you were in school, did y’all have like secondhand books from White schools, or—?

	C:	Yeah. Secondhand books from White schools.



	S:	Okay. And of course, it was an all-Black school during that time. C:	Yeah.







S:

Were there any White schools near your home?

C:

I don’t remember.

S:

You don’t remember? Did you have to walk to school?

C:

Yeah. We were—school was right down the street from us.

S:

So, it was close to your house.

C:

Mmhm.

S:

While you were walking to school or coming from school, did you experience any



racial stuff, or while you were in school? You didn’t experience none of that



growing up?

H:

Unh-uh.

S:

How long did you live in Georgia?

C:

For about seven or eight years, nine years.

S:

And y’all moved from Georgia to where?

C:

From Georgia to Hollywood. Hallandale, then we moved to Hollywood.

S:

Florida. Okay.

C:

Mmhm.

S:

Do you remember how old you were, then?

C:

I was nine years old.

S:

So you were nine. Did you experience any racial stuff there growing up? While



you were in school?

C:

Nope.

S:

No. How long were you in Hallandale, Florida?

C:

Till I was about fifteen [inaudible 2:44].





	S:	And then, your school was near your home there, or did you have to catch the bus?

	C:	I caught the bus.



	S:	You caught the bus, okay. Did you work while you were in Hallandale, Florida? C:	Yeah. I washed dishes.

	S:	You washed dishes. Do you remember, was it a restaurant or was it at a home? C:	A restaurant. An Italian restaurant.

	S:	Oh, Italian restaurant. Did the money help for the family, or was it pocket money? C:	Pocket money.

	S:	Pocket money? When you came to Gainesville, you worked at University of Florida, right?

	C:	I worked at Job Corps, then I went to University of Florida, and then I retired from—I worked in South Florida [inaudible 4:05] Hospital when I was in—which, where I was?

	S:	You said you worked at University of Florida. Did you experience any racial—? C:	No, I didn’t.

	S:	No. Was it a good environment to work in? C:	Yeah.

	S:	What did you do at University of Florida? C:	I was a cook.

	S:	You were a cook. For a dormitory, or a fraternity home?



	C:	First, I worked with a fraternity, then I worked for the University of Florida. S:	Okay.





	C:	It was a sorority house. Then I worked for the University of Florida. Then I went out to—what you call that place? Tacachale.

	S:	At UF, were the students nice to you, or did they treat you like secondhand citizen? Or—?

	C:	They were nice to me.



	S:	Okay. All right. Growing up, did you experience Civil Rights Movement, or—?



	C:	Yeah. I remember Civil Rights Movement, because, let’s see. When I was growing up in Hallandale, I asked a dude, I said, “Hey, my brother!” He said, “I ain’t your brother!”

	S:	This was a White man?



	C:	Yeah. It was White man. So, I told him, I said, “Well, forget about it.”



	S:	Yeah. During that time, were White people calling you, like, racial, out of your name? Did you have to say, “Yes, sir.” Or, “No, Ma’am.” Or when you walk, you see White people on the sidewalk did you have to move aside, or?

	C:	Mm-mm.



	S:	Okay. How young were you when you started voting? C:	I was in my thirties.

	S:	Thirties? Oh, okay. Did you vote, like, Republican or Democrat? C:	I voted Democrat all the time.

	S:	Democrat all the time, okay. Was it hard for you to vote? Did they try to stop Blacks from voting where you were? Or—?

	C:	No.



	S:	No. Okay.





	C:	Because I was raised in the state of Florida. So, Florida had—in Hallandale—we always had the right to vote in Florida.

	S:	Okay. So it wasn’t violent like what we see on TV, like in the [19]60s and [19]70s?

	C:	No.



	S:	Okay. So you always worked as a cook, most of your life and everything. I’m going to go when you were young, working in the cotton field. You said you was about six or seven years old? And you say you worked during the summer?

	C:	Mmhm.



	S:	Was it every day during the summer? Or—?



	C:	I’d get up in the morning, and I can remember my grandmomma, she was telling me things. I can’t remember right now.

	S:	Okay. But you were young when you worked in the cotton field. When you were young, did your grandma or your mom taught you how to respond to White people? Or were there kind of rules to when you got into contact with White people, how to act?

	C:	Nope.



	S:	No, okay. All right. Well, Mr. Hubert Curry, I want to thank you for giving me this interview, for the University of Florida and for me.

	C:	Okay, baby.



	S:	Okay. [End of recording]





	Transcribed by:  Juliette Barbera, August 29, 2017 Audit-edited by: Ryan Morini, December 15, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019