AAHP 754; Haskins; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 754 Kathleen Haskins 2-19-2020 Interviewed by Alana Gomez on February 19, 2020 38 minutes | 18 pages



Abstract: In this interview, New York City native Kathleen Haskins recounts the life and work of her husband, Dr. James Haskins, who was among the first Black professors at the University of Florida. She recounts their shared love for writing, and the challenges and rewards of writing children’s books. Haskins reflects on her own experience as a White woman writing books on African American topics, explaining that her work has allowed her to see the world from different perspectives. Haskins also recounts some of her experiences working in a New York City Museum in the aftermath of 9/11.





Keywords: [literature, children’s books, Black history, 9/11, September 11, author, writer, professor, academic, education]



AAHP 754

Interviewee: Kathleen Haskins Interviewer: Alana Gomez Date: February 19, 2020

	G:	My name is Alana Gomez, I am part of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program here at UF. And right now, I’m in an oral history seminar class with Dr. Paul Ortiz, who is part of the program. I believe it’s around 1:15 p.m. right now on February 19th. And could you just start with introducing yourself Mrs. Haskins?

	H:	Okay, my name is Kathleen Benson Haskins and I live in New York City and my late husband James Haskins taught at the University of Florida from 1977 to 2005. And before he died, he arranged to have his papers and libraries donated to the libraries. And he established a James Haskins collection of African American literature. And a James Haskins visiting scholar fellowship in the African American studies program. And since his passing, I have been visiting Gainesville— oh, about five times I think to participate in programs, give talks, once to go to a football game. And so, I’ve come to feel quite at home here myself.

	G:	Okay, awesome. Could you just describe a little bit more of what UF means to you and what the libraries mean to you now that Dr. Haskins has donated that?

	H:	Well, they are certainly a wonderful repository. I know about some of the collections. I’ve had tours of— for example, the children’s book collection and I’ve seen some of the other collections, the Judaica Collection. And I think they do a wonderful job and I’m certainly pleased with the way Jim’s material has been arranged and described. It’s really easy; there’s a really extensive finding aid.

And I’m pleased with how they have paid tribute to him over time. One of the ties, possibly the first time I came down they had a whole exhibition of his books and scrapbooks and things like that. And another time, I guess the last time I was





here I gave a talk on his work. And then I also gave a talk to African American Studies students, that was nice.

	G:	Okay. And what year did they say they put in his books into the library? H:	It was probably about 2004 because it was before he died.

	G:	So, just going off of that, you said you gave a talk to African American Studies, what does this event mean to you? This 50th Symposium?

	H:	I think it means that African American Studies has managed to survive. But I think it’s too bad that it’s still not a full department. Fifty years, it’s just a program still. Not just— I mean it’s still a program, it should be a department. My late husband certainly felt that way.

	G:	Let’s talk about the impact that you believe it’s had on UF, what the value of the African American Program is here at UF.

	H:	I really don’t think I can speak to that because I’m not here.



	G:	Maybe could you talk about your husband’s impact on the program here and the specific initiatives he might have worked with here?

	H:	Well, I would say the major impact was the establishment of this new scholar fellowship. Otherwise, I’m not sure how formalized it was. He certainly knew people who were associated with the program but he never actually taught in the program.

	G:	Okay. And could you just describe for someone who—even though I know you’re not familiar with it—the scholar’s award? What did you say it was?

	H:	It’s a fellowship.



	G:	Fellowship. What that is and—





H:  Well, theoretically it is to bring a visiting scholar to the African American Studies Program for a semester to do research and to share the research. I’m not sure if actually there’s enough money in the endowment just for a full semester visiting scholar fellowship but it’s something that we’re working toward.

G:  And is that something that happens every year? H:  It would once there’s enough money.

G:  Let me think. But you personally haven’t taught any courses at UF? Okay, just wanted to clarify that. Never attended UF?

H:   No.



	G:	I think I read online that you attended the University of Connecticut. H:	Yes.

	G:	And that you enrolled in the first Black history course taught there? H:	I did.

	G:	Could you talk a little bit about that?



	H:	It was just eye-opening for me. I’d grown up in a town with, I think, one Black family. And it was just new, so I thought it would be interesting to learn. One thing I really remember about it was that there was some exam and I was asked to write about either Harriet Tubman or Sojourner Truth, and I got ‘em mixed up. I wrote about one of ‘em but it was the wrong one, but actually I think the teacher gave me a B anyway because I’d written well about the one I wrote about. And that kind of prepared me to meet my husband and then he started sending me books to read like Harlem: The Making of a Ghetto by Gilbert Osofsky and The Wretched of the Earth by Frantz Fanon. And so, he continued my education.





	G:	Wow, yeah. What was the course called?



	H:	I think it was “Introduction to Black History.” Something like that. This is going back a ways.

	G:	Yeah, of course. And what got you interested in that? Because I guess if it was the first course it must not have been offered—

	H:	Well, it was the [19]60s, there was a lot going on. There was the Civil Rights Movement had happened, Black Power Movement had begun, that was 1966 and I enrolled at UConn in 1965. So there was a lot of ferment and I was just eager to learn.

	G:	Of course. I guess at that point they probably didn’t have an African American Studies Program?

	H:	No, that didn’t happen until the [19]70s. G:	Oh, but they developed one?

	H:	Yeah, now here, [19]69. But I would say—I’m trying to think of when there were protests by African American students on the campus of City College and the campus of Columbia. I’m pretty sure that was the [19]70s.

	G:	What would you say then, having experienced taking an African American history course, is the value of having it on a grand scale? Just by the education maybe or the experience?

	H:	Oh, great value. It just opens your eyes to new things and that’s why you’re in college. You’re supposed to be learning about lives other than your own and experiences other than your own. Now, this is nothing to do with African American Studies but I remember when I went to school and I went to college





and took introductory religion classes and learned so much about religions other than mine. Wrote letters, that’s what you did back then, long distance phone calls were expensive. So, I wrote letters back to my parents with all these things I was learning, and my father started to worry that I was getting ideas, which I was. [Laughter]

	G:	I say that’s a good thing. What would you say to a student who’s maybe interested in African American Studies Program here but isn’t sure whether that’s something they should do or if that would be an important course to enroll in?

	H:	Well, I think if they’re interested they should try to enroll in a course. There’s quite a few of them and there are a certain number of electives students have, especially in their first couple years. Correct? That’s the time to branch out and learn about something brand new, if it is brand new, or to deepen your knowledge if you know a little bit.

	G:	I also wanted to talk a little about, I know you and your husband have worked with children’s books and I wanted to know what you thought the kind of impact had on maybe an African American Studies Program and how that could be used in a program?

	H:	Well, I would think since children are very impressionable and one way to reach children is through books that would be something to really focus on. Jim taught children’s literature here and I’m certain that he covered African American children’s books as well as European American. But children often learn more from a book than they do someone telling them something. And I would make it a





fairly major part of the literature classes in African American studies if I had anything to do with it, which I don’t. But it’d be nice.

	G:	I read online somewhere, I think it was with a UF website but there are obviously a lot of nice words that come across when you’re reading about your husband, and I read something that said that he was sort of a trusted voice to the Black experience in his writing. I was wondering if you would just tell me a little bit about that and maybe comment on that?

	H:	Well, I would say he couldn’t have been a trusted voice. I actually never heard that comment. But anyway, because he did so many books—over a hundred and fifty—not every single one was a children’s book but the vast majority were. And just to make it possible for young people to read about all these—particularly the biographies—all these different people in history, some of them not as well- known as others. And then he also did some sort of topic books like A Piece of the Power for Black Mayors or Profiles in Black Power, which would have been collected biographies. And just getting that material out to be read I think was important.

	G:	I think you said he didn’t teach classes within the African American Studies Program?

	H:	No. It was always in English.



	G:	But were any of his books maybe used for any of the classes? Do you know?



	H:	Well, actually, I don’t know if any of his books were but some years back—this is after he died, which was fifteen years ago this year now—I would say maybe eight years ago the head of African American Studies actually had a seminar





where the students worked with the archivists here to arrange and describe Jim’s papers, and then they wrote essays on various aspects of their experience. And it was actually published online.

	G:	Wow, that’s awesome.



	H:	And so that was impactful.



	G:	So would you say that was the extent to which you worked with the program? Or were there other areas?

	H:	That was the extent to which I did. I mean, I mostly knew—her name was Stephanie Evans, she was the head of the African American Studies Program. Didn’t stay too long because her husband got a job in Atlanta. She went with him and got a job at Spelman. Anyhow, I met the students as they were actually at work here in the archives and then I wrote an introduction to their books of essays, so that was nice.

	G:	That’s awesome, so it looks like you’ve a little bit of a hand in this whole celebration.

	H:	[Laughter] Yeah.



	G:	That’s nice. Did you often discuss maybe the program with Dr. Haskins or maybe his opinions on it, if he thought it was working, if he thought it definitely—?

	H:	Yeah, he felt that it wasn’t given enough importance by the university and I guess the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences and that it should have been better staffed and that there should have been professors assigned specifically to African American Studies as opposed to teaching one course there and the rest





of the time in anthropology or one course there and the rest of the time in English. Yeah.

	G:	I believe you’re speaking at the community panel tomorrow? H:	Yeah.

	G:	And will you also be talking a little bit about Dr. Haskins and his work?



	H:	Oh, a lot. Because that’s really all I can talk about, I can talk about him here in Gainesville and his impact on the community more than I can the programs and that.

	G:	Can I hear a little bit about his impact on the community?



	H:	Yeah, I think that he, when he first came there weren’t many African American professors here and he used to joke that when he was downtown at midday in his suit jacket and tie, people thought he was a preacher. And then if he told them he was a teacher, they’d think a high school teacher. They just couldn’t imagine an African American progressor. And he was always very friendly with people of all socioeconomic levels. The one I know best is a woman who worked here at the university. She cleaned in the business school and she must’ve cleaned Turlington Hall where his office was periodically. And she must have seen him trucking up the stairs or something, and she said, “You know there’s an elevator?” And he said, “There’s an elevator?!” So she showed him the elevator and they became friends. She started cleaning house for him and et cetera. But he would be friendly with a lot of sort of unsung people, and I’m still friends with Mary—that’s the one who used to clean here. And every time I come down we have to go to Harry’s because after class, he would go to Harry’s. In the early





days, it was Lillian’s Music Store. Later on, it was Harry’s. And he’d always sit in the same place right by the window and everybody knew where to find him. And he would continue teaching there. An anthropologist who was here then, Harmen McCloren, said she used to routinely go after her classes and sit with him and take notes, because he was always teaching, giving advice. And he knew most of the important Black people in town. His doctor was the first doctor who’d gotten the full privileges at Alachua County General. His dentist was the first Black dentist who established a practice in Gainesville, and some of the political people. But he always knew the little people too.

	G:	So, I heard you say something about him giving advice a lot. What do you think his role was in the community? Do you think it was more a professional standard as a professor or more as maybe a friend who did give advice?

	H:	I would say in the communities. Home, more as a friend. Yeah.



	G:	And kind of going off that, what is maybe one thing that you would like students who are attending the symposium tomorrow to take from the talk you’ll be giving and just the information you will be giving about your husband?

	H:	That one person can have an impact on young lives. There were many, many students that he influenced. And actually, I can’t remember a single name but I just remember there was one young man who—and there have been more over the years—who decided to go into teaching because of Jim, who realized that Jim’s impact on him had made him realize that he could have an impact on others.





	G:	Did he talk a lot about just the early days of being a Black professor at UF? I know that must have not been easy here at UF.

	H:	Yeah. He felt that he had to be better than others. Part of it was his own fault because he has the Socratic method of teaching. Do you know what that is?

	G:	Is it interactive?



	H:	It’s kind of confrontational and not everybody could take that. When I would sit in on his classes I wanted to sort of scootch down. [Laughter] But some people just really couldn’t take it, but others rose to the occasion and they kind of enjoyed the combat. He was less confrontational when he was at Harry’s, then he was a little bit more laid back.

	G:	Probably came to the giving advice. H:	Right. [Laughter]

	G:	What would you say this historical moment, this fifty-year celebration means to you personally or maybe the general moment?

	H:	I think it’s probably a wonderful jumping-off point for getting it to be a department. I mean, it proves that it’s hung in there one way or another for half a century. And it’s really time. I don’t know what the trajectory of other—I mean, you can’t compare it to chemistry, but I think you might be able to compare it with other ethnic studies departments and how long it took them to become departments.

	G:	And personally, what does it mean to you? Especially to have such a close relation to your husband to UF?

	H:	I know. Well, it means a lot. I feel like I’m—I’m now wearing a gator. G:	I saw— our Golden Gator pin.





	H:	So, I’ve come to feel like I belong here, and a lot of that is due to Judy Russel, the dean of the libraries. I’m staying with her this week and I’ve gotten to know her. When she comes to New York, we got to dinner and so I’ve developed relationships with also a couple of young men who are in various foot racing roles, one with CLAS and one with the UF Foundation. So you know, you develop relationships and a place becomes more meaningful. And of course, it’s where Jim’s legacy resides, so that too.

	G:	How do I ask this question? Were you able to see the progression over time of the African American Studies Program here?

	H:	Not really.



	G:	Not really? Not even though Dr. Haskins?



	H:	No, not that I can remember, I don’t remember much of a change from his attitude towards it from the early years to the later years, frankly. But that doesn’t mean it wasn’t a progression in his mind. It’s just what he had other things to talk about.

	G:	Yeah, of course. Could we talk maybe a little about your position with the Museum of the City of New York.

	H:	I had actually many positions. I started in education, segwayed into curatorial, and in the meantime developed my own community relations capabilities. And that was after we threw the curations of exhibitions, some of which had to do with the surrounding neighborhood. And then, because I’d gotten involved in the local neighborhood of East Harlem, the then-director saw a picture of me. I guess it was at a street renaming. And there I was with all sorts of elected officials and





she said, “You’re doing government relations!” [Laughter] So suddenly I was director of government and community relations. I did that for eighteen months and then they decided they needed me back in curatorial, so I did that some more and ended up as a project manager for exhibitions and publications. Had a wonderful time. But the most fun was doing exhibitions with a variety of different ethnic groups. And communities. And I would say the one that I was most proud of is called “A Community of Many Worlds: Arab Americans in New York City.” And originally, it was going to be a modest exhibition. To begin with, I realized there wasn’t much scholarship on Arab-Americans of New York, so I got funding for a two-day symposium and brought scholars from around the country in to talk about—the first day was devoted to their early period, late 1800s up until like [19]65, and the second day was the more modern movement. And then that I edited essays and published that as a book, and then that provided the foundation for an exhibition. And it was going to be opening in I think November 2001. And then 9/11 happened. And we had to have a pre-scheduled meeting. I had a group of community leaders, they were activists, teachers, translators, et cetera, they had been helping me put the exhibition together. We had a pre- scheduled meeting and some of them said, “Let’s just give the money back and not do it.” Some had already been threatened. But our director, to his credit, said, “No, it’s even more important and we’re going to make it bigger.” And the next time a big exhibition space was available was March. So, we worked like crazy from September to March and made it three times bigger. And it was really a wonderful exhibition.





	G:	Wow. What would you say impacted you as a scholar the most from all your positions working with the museum?

	H:	That was it, that point. G:	Yeah.

	H:	Even, for example, even the staff there was a—we decided to do a little installation by an artist named Emily Jazzer and it was going to be called “Arabs Smiling.” And she simply put out the word for anybody who wanted to to send just a snapshot of an Arab person smiling. And I remember some member of the museum staff saying, “Really Kathy? Arabs Smiling?” Just didn’t like it. And I wondered when we started to have the materials come in and started to put it on display how the registrars would treat it. And I was so happy when they treated it just like anything else, very, very carefully. And once this fellow’s name was David—saw the “Arabs Smiling” installation, he said, “I understand what you mean now.” So it was just very emotional. We had things that we’d arranged to borrow originally that people didn’t want to lend to us because they didn’t want to be associated with terrorists. Some people whose roots went way back. So it was quite fraught and the fact that we pulled it off, it was so beautiful. And I’m still friends with a number of the people who were on that committee.

	G:	Mmhm, so it sounds like you worked with more than one entity within these positions. So what will you be bringing tomorrow to the community panel?

	H:	Mostly little stories about Jim and his impact on the students, on the community.



A lot of things that I just told you now. I think that panel might be interesting because at least two people, it seems to me, on the panel—I know none of them,





I’ve met Dr. Hillard-Nun—but I think they are really community people and they’re going to bring that viewpoint in from the outside in, which I think should make for good conversation.

	G:	And just me in general, such a broad spectrum that you could incorporate, what role does community play in African American Studies?

	H:	Well, I think it should play a role in most studies but I think it’s probably very important in African American Studies just because here in Gainesville and elsewhere, that community has been denied and does not, even now, feel welcome. And the more there can be outreach to the community, the better off I think the university is and the African American Studies Program is. The community, for example, knowing more about the library. Which of course, the library had made great efforts to reach out but they’d be far more likely to think about giving their papers or whatever to the library if they felt like they would be treated with respect.

	G:	I agree, yeah. What kind of impact has African American Studies made on your life and your career?

	H:	Well, it really in a couple ways. For example, it helped me to understand my husband. This is not original to me. I remember reading when we were researching the life of Lena Horne so we ended up doing two books on Lena Horne, one for adults and one for newer readers. And she was married to a White producer, I think, and had said something to the effect that he learned to see the world though her eyes. And I found that was so for me. I learned to see the world though his eyes to the extent I could. I mean, I could never be him but





my perception of the world changed because relating to him, seeing the world though his eyes. And I learned by doing research for so many of those books— we learned a great deal of African American history, which was nice.

	G:	Is there a certain role that you hope to play in the future of African American Studies?

	H:	Only to the extent that I might be able to publish another book. I published one, two of the last books that Jim did were illustrated by Benny Andrews, African American artist. And after Jim died and the first book had come out—sorry, I meant Benny—when we both were invited down to Savannah, Georgia because the first book was about a mailman in Savannah who was also head of the NAACP and used his mail route to distribute fliers about protests and things like that. Anyway, so we got along famously and he would then invite me to his openings and things like that, we corresponded a bit. And then by the time the second book was published, Benny had passed away. And so I then wrote a children’s book, picture book, about Benny’s life and it was illustrated with his collages that his widow chose.

	G:	Wow.



	H:	Yeah. And I have a manuscript, hasn’t gone anywhere yet, about Bricktop, who was an African American entertainer in Paris between the wars. And then later in Rome and Mexico City. And Jim and I worked with her on her autobiography that was published in 1983. And I always thought she was an interesting character, and I’d written a children’s book that would have to be illustrated. We’d have to find an illustrator, but that has yet to be solved. But it seems like every time I





think of another new book it’s generally about African American topics, even though I’m White. Sometimes that’s a bit of a drawback.

G:  Yeah, I was just about to ask, what is it like to write for so long from that kind of worldview that you have but to write about African American topics?

H:  It feels perfectly comfortable and natural to me but that’s because of my unique experience. But I do understand some people’s… opinion that if you’re going to write about African American people you should be African American yourself.

G:  Has anyone ever approached you about that? H:   Not directly, but I’ve heard it indirectly, yeah.

	G:	What kind of role—well not role, but the future of African American studies here at UF, where do you see it or where would you like to see it?

	H:	I’d like to see it become in the Top 10 of Public Universities, like the university itself is.

G:   Me too.



	H:	I’d like to see lots of resources put behind it because that’s what it needs, to hire the best people and to hire enough people so that there’s a great variety of course offerings.

	G:	When you say resources, what resources specifically—



	H:	Money. [Laughter] Resources is a nice way to say, “Put a lot of money into it so that you can pay competitive salaries to your director and other administrators and certainly the faculty.” And have stipends for students.





	G:	Of course, that’s very important. In your writing career, what have you found to be the most challenging or that you maybe liked the most or which book you kind of favor or with the others, either in your adult section of children’s.

H:  I don’t know. I always like the most recent one, I think. I think the Benny Andrews one is probably—it’s the most recent but I really did do it with love, Benny having been gone. That’s probably my favorite.

	G:	Is there anything that you have found challenging as you’ve written over the years?

	H:	I’d say just trying to make an interesting story without using a lot of big words and I think it’s the hardest part maybe is just—and it’s something you develop over time—is trying to grab the reader right away. Yeah, so that they’ll stick with it when it gets—during the boring parts.

	G:	I’ve been taking creative writing classes since high school and now I’m a double major in history and English, so I understand that. That’s why I was curious. That was more of a question from my own knowledge. But that was nice to hear, the struggle never ends.

	H:	No.



	G:	And I think I have everything I wanted to but I wanted to open the floor one last time if you wanted to say anything else about Dr. Haskins or anything that you just would want someone listening to this interview later to know or that you personally would like to share?

	H;	Well, I just think that he was a very unique individual. Came from really humble beginnings, and I think had a sense early on that he was going to overcome so





many of the barriers that were in his way the minute he was born. And he did, he did. And he made a significant impact on the lives of many individuals and on who knows how many read his books. I do a count of people. Interestingly enough, his funeral was at the Cathedral Church of Saint John the Divine, and the head minister—I don’t remember what he was called but the highest theological personage actually got up and spoke about how his kids had read Jim’s books. And he remembered the name well, which is really nice. And that happens with some regularity.

	G:	Of course, yeah. Thank you for sharing that. And then is there anything else you’d like to add about the symposium and African American Studies?

	H:	No, no, I’m just looking forward to it. I’m going to learn more. I’m going to go to the whole day and the unveiling—

	G:	On Friday. Well, perfect, that was all of my questions. Thank you so much for speaking with me, I understand you had a very busy day.

	H:	Yes. [Laughter] Did you have to cut classes or something to do this?



	G:	I have work. I work at a museum actually, the Natural History Museum, so I was very excited to interview you. It’s very flexible so I’m going to go now but I just wanted to say thank you again.

	H:	Well, my pleasure, thanks for having me.





[End of interview]





Transcribed by: Abby Lovett, September 23, 2021 Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, September 27, 2021 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, September 28, 2021