AAHP 190; Petteway; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 190 Valara Petteway African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview Conducted by Marna Weston on September 2, 2011 53 minutes | 33 pages





Abstract: Valara Petteway, the president of the Alumni Association for the former Black school Robinson Jenkins Ellison in Starke, Florida is interviewed by Marna Weston. She talks about her time attending R.J.E., including her favorite teachers and her participation in the marching and concert bands. She also discusses the summer of 1966 when she had to take a class at the White high school. While she did not experience blatant discrimination there, she got the feeling that she was not welcomed in the school. She documents her experience participating in the sit-in at the University of Florida, dubbed Black Tuesday of 1971. She comments on the work her Alumni association is doing to maintain the legacy of R.J.E and to help the community.



Keywords: [African American History, integration, Sit-in, Black Tuesday, Robinson Jenkins Ellison School]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 190

Interviewee: Valara Petteway Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: September 2, 2011



	W:	This is Marna Weston with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program on September 2nd, 2011, at the Robinson Jenkins Ellerson Renaissance Center in Starke, Florida, where I’m here with Ms. Valara Petteway, the president of the Alumni Association, for the bi-annual reunion of RJE And thank you very much for having us here.

	P:	Thank you.



	W:	Could you please state and spell your full name?



	P:	My name is Valara Jenkins Petteway. V-A-L-A-R-A, J-E-N-K-I-N-S, P-E-T-T-E- W-A-Y.

	W:	And when and where were you born?



	P:	I was born here in Starke. I was born June 6, 1949. W:	Okay, and who are your parents?

	P:	My parents were the Reverend Alfonso and Alma Jenkins. W:	Okay and are they both still living with you?

	P:	Both of my families are deceased.



	W:	They’ve passed, I’m very sorry. Where were they originally from?



	P:	My father was from Sampson City, which is this little small town just east of here.



My mother, this is my mother’s home in Starke.



	W:	Okay, and do you have knowledge of your parents’ parents? Would you be able to tell me a little bit about your dad’s mom and dad?

	P:	My dad’s father’s name was Reverend Thomas Jenkins Sr. and my grandmother, his mother’s name was Serena Jenkins and when they passed away they both





were living in Jacksonville. My grandmother lived at an older age than my grandfather but my grandmother lived until she was ninety-six years old.

W:   Okay and how about on your mother’s side?



P:  My mother’s father’s name was Julius Royal Sr. My grandmother’s name was Sophia Royal. My grandmother was the first president of the PTA for RJE She presented the first bible, which we still have, for RJE

W:   Okay. And do you have any knowledge of your family past your grandparents?



Do you know about your grandparents’ parents?



P:  No, I don’t know. They talked about them but they were no longer living when I was born.

W:   Okay, do you have brothers and sisters?



	P:	I have brothers and sisters. I have two sisters and a brother that’s living and I have a brother and two sisters that are deceased. There was seven of us in which I am the baby.

	W:	Okay could you give me their names from oldest to youngest?



	P:	My oldest sister’s name was Betty Jean. Betty went to Florida Memorial, actually, she was a teacher here at RJE My sister, Joan, lives in North Carolina. She’s a minister. She taught school also here at RJE Then my brother, Alfonso Jenkins, he was an engineer out at NASA, and my sister Delores Jenkins Johnson, she passed away a couple years ago. She was a master barber. She lived up in Philadelphia. And then there is my brother, Jimmy, who’s served us proudly in the Unites States Army. He’s retired from the Army United States postal system. He and his wife now reside down in Palm Bay, Florida. And then my sister,





Marian Angela Jenkins Jackson, she attended here at RJE She was the queen the year she graduated in 1966. She also was, in 1968, she was Miss Florida Memorial. She attended school at Florida Memorial.

	W:	Are you married?



	P:	I am married. I’m married to Garett Petteway Sr. Together with my kids and his we have five children.

	W:	Okay so what are the names of all your kids?



	P:	The oldest one’s name is Quitina Renata. She’s an RN, Director of Nurses. My son’s name is Louis Parks II. He’s a manager at an auto parts store. Then we have Disevette who is a nursing assistant, and Renee, who is also a nursing assistant, and then we have Garett Petteway Jr. who’s presently still in high school.

	W:	Okay how did you and your husband meet?



	P:	My husband saw me for many, many years. He saw me and I didn’t know that he was—I knew of him but I didn’t know him. And he just watched from afar and never said anything to me until finally years later after I was divorced from my first husband, I began to notice him noticing me and talked to some friends and they introduced us together. So that’s how we met. Come to find out he knew everything about me. He even knew what color coat I wore in the winter time.

	W:	Smitten from afar. P:	Yes, yes.

	W:	What is your earliest memory of education?





	P:	My earliest memory of education was going to first grade with my teacher Mrs. Mabel Fletcher Lee. I thought she was the most beautiful lady in the whole wide world. I could see all of my friends. We were in the first grade together and my mother, that was when she went to work. She stayed home until I began school and then she became the manager of the lunchroom here at the school so she started work the same day I started school.

	W:	Okay so you went your whole career right here.



	P:	I went twelve years at RJE; perfect attendance. Each of one of my seven brothers and sisters, all of us had perfect attendance.

	W:	You never missed a day of school? P:	Never missed, not one day.

	W:	Wow. You think that’s because your mom was here on campus?



	P:	My mom was here on campus. She didn’t play that being sick. We were never sick. We didn’t have no reason. She had to come to work, you got to go to school. There was no question.

	W:	Okay well I want to talk more about RJE, but let me talk about home for a second. What kind of chores did you and your brothers and sisters have growing up?

	P:	We were—When you got up in the morning, you made your bed, you ate breakfast, you cleaned up the kitchen, and you went to school.

	W:	What time would you get up?





	P:	We got up probably about, maybe about seven o’clock. Maybe about seven o’clock because there was no slopping around. You knew to get up. You knew to get yourself ready for school and we came to school.

	W:	So you mentioned Ms. Lee, is she your favorite teacher of all time?



	P:	She was, yes, I could say that she was my favorite teacher. She was my favorite teacher.

	W:	Do you have a favorite teacher that taught a particular subject from the time you started to the time you ended?

	P:	Probably my band teacher.



	W:	Okay and what was your band teacher’s name? P:	Leonard Bernard Monroe.

	W:	And what was special about Leonard Bernard Monroe?



	P:	Mr. Monroe was a little different. He came here from Florida A&M and we were just in awe with the Marching 100 and so when he came here we were like “Okay, so we have someone that went to Florida A&M that was with the Marching 100. He’s coming here to teach us band so we’re gon’ put our band on the road too.” And so he did that.

	W:	Wow. So you had your own Marching 100 here.



	P:	We had our own Marching—I don’t know how many it was—we were the Marching 100’s anyway. We thought we were anyway.

	W:	Now did you march? Were you a majorette, flag, or did you play an instrument?



	P:	Okay, I played flute. I was the only flutist. My goal was to—I guess that’s just me—That was the only thing up there that nobody was going for and I just sat





back and watched and see what everybody wanted to play. Everybody wanted to play the clarinet. Everybody wanted to play the drums or the trumpet and I saw this lonely flute up there that had my name on it. And so I played the flute concert band and then later on in years I was a majorette.

	W:	Do you still play the flute today?



	P:	I can play. I don’t play much. Not as much as I really want to. I don’t. I still have my flute, but I don’t play as much.

	W:	One of the wonderful things about school in this era is you went to school from one to twelve so basically your middle school was the same school. So you didn’t have four years, you had maybe six or seven years. Were you in the band before your high school years or did you carry all the way through or was it once you became a freshman then you got in the band?

	P:	I think I was in probably about the eighth grade, maybe, when we didn’t have a band. They had a band years before, but it came along when then there was no more band. And so they hired a band teacher, and I think I was probably about in eighth grade. When they formed the band, it was like “You didn’t have any choice, you gon’ be in the band.” That was just it.

	W:	Did it end up being the thing to do for you? Was that the center of your extracurricular participation?

	P:	Yes that was the thing to do. Actually, I was a cheerleader for a small period of time, but during that time I could cheerlead but it had to be at home games because we were not allowed—You couldn’t ride the bus. My parents, they





weren’t going for that. You wouldn’t ride no bus, going on no bus, going out of town—

	W:	With no boys.



	P:	No boys, so you could cheer but you cheered to the home games. But we could go in the bus, go out of town for the band, but that was during the daytime mainly, that the band went on the trips.

	W:	Who was the principal of your school?



	P:	Our principal’s name was Mr. Eddie Toggins who everybody loved, everybody loved.

	W:	What was so loveable about your principle?



	P:	He was firm, stern and kind. He loved everybody. He didn’t overlook anyone, he knew everybody by their names and he wanted the boys to grow up to learn how to be men, to learn responsibilities and so they had to tighten up, they had to be men, they had to wear their shirts on the inside, they had to have on belts, they had to carry themselves like men. So we loved him because he cared so much for the school and for this community.

	W:	What is your strongest memory of high school and growing up in this community?



	P:	Well I had one memory I could never figure out. Nobody would answer that question for me. I was always trying to figure out why we had to stand when the superintendent of the school come. Whenever we had a ceremony—we would never see him until we have a ceremony. Like graduation, he would come there at graduation. So why did we have to stand up when he comes and that was one of my questions in life. “Why do we have to stand up when the superintendent of





the school comes here?” But I guess my most fondest memory of RJE was at a concert that we had, just our band being in concert for the school. Just being able to sit on the stage, just being able to listen at the beautiful music that we made for our school.

	W:	What were your proms like? First, how many times did you go to the prom?



	P:	Well actually, you went to the prom when you were a junior and you’re a senior. Not like nowadays you go when you’re in seventh grade but when you’re a junior and senior. My prom, three coins in a fountain was the theme of our prom when I was in eleventh grade. My mother carried me and my date to the prom in the car and picked me up. My twelfth grade prom was a little different because when you’re in eleventh grade you give the prom to the twelfth graders and when you’re in the twelfth grade you have to—vice versa and so they were just wonderful. We had a Hawaiian theme, the one that we did. Everything came in a package and I guess the teachers like Ms. Robinson was saying, they decorated for us and all of that stuff. We really had a good time. We had dined at the fairgrounds and so we just—we didn’t have an after prom dance or go to Walt Disney World where they were anyway. We didn’t go out after prom was over, we went home.

	W:	Was there a lot of structured activity in your home beside school? Did you all go to church? Did you have something regular that the family did things that were expected of you?

	P:	Okay we knew that on Sunday mornings that you got up, we had family prayer, we had breakfast and you went to Sunday school. You went to morning service.





You went to BYU if they had evening service, you went to evening service but every summer my parents would take us and we would go to New York, Philadelphia, Washington and we would just go all over the place because by that time my mother, brothers and sisters, they all lived up North so we would go up there. If we didn’t go up there that summer then they would come down here. One summer we went up there and we went to Coney Island and we also went to Temple University. My uncle got us up that morning and said that we were going up to Temple University to integrate the college because it was segregated so I had the opportunity to go up to march at Temple University to help integrate that school and also I went to the World’s Fair in 1962 which was held up in Washington.

	W:	How old were you when you went to Temple to that integration march? P:	I would think that I was probably about twelve years old.

	W:	Okay so what was going on in your mind? Were you just “Oh this is what we’re doing because we’re going.” Or had you really thought about it and realized “This is about integration.” Or were you just doing what your uncle was saying “Let’s go do that?”

	P:	Well I have thought about it because you know I had heard the speeches that Martin Luther King was giving at the time and everything so I knew about segregation because I lived that living in Starke where they had the “Colored only” fountains and different stuff like that. Of course we weren’t allowed to drink out the—

	W:	So you saw those things?





P:   I saw those things.



W:  Where were those fountains at? Were they everywhere or just a couple of places?

P:  They were at the courthouse. W:  Okay.

P:  If you went to the courthouse, they went to Colored courthouse. Mainly that was where the water fountains—when you went uptown to the drug store, you could not sit at the counter.

W:  What was the name of the drug store? P:  Mistrels Drug Store.

W:   Okay.



	P:	And Court Drug Store. W:	Okay.

	P:	You were not allowed to sit there. So we weren’t allowed to sit there, so we didn’t buy anything from it except for, you know, because my parents had medication. Or my grandmother then—

	W:	There was no Black pharmacist to go to.



	P:	There was no Black pharmacist to go to, but there was a Black man who delivered your medication to you in the neighborhood. Because a lot of people did not have transportation, so he would deliver the medication. The doctor would—they would take the prescriptions to the drug store and he would deliver them. They would fill them and he would deliver them.





W:  Were there other places where by being Black you were made uncomfortable to be at that you can recall growing up here locally or did you mostly just associate with people who looked like yourself in your own neighborhood?

	P:	Well mostly I associated with people who look like me in my own neighborhood and just like I said, I had the experience of going up to Branford High School when I was in the summer up going into the tenth grade that I went up to Branford High to take Americanism versus Communism and so that was probably my first experience being around so many White people at the same time just sitting in that environment.

	W:	How would you rate that experience? Was it generally positive or was it neutral? Was it negative? Does anything stand out in your memory that happened while you were taking the class?

	P:	It was a positive experience because I needed that. I needed to know. I needed—the questions that I had in my head, you think ab0out how things are and you really don’t know but you can sit down and wonder things are; how they act, how they interact with their teachers, what goes on in their classroom and things like that. But you can kinda wonder all day long but until you’re actually in that environment, you need that experience so it was an experience that I needed to have. So I learned to appreciate where I came from much better. I was too happy to get back here when the school year started and a lot of children from my class went over there, because we had a choice at that time. Everybody didn’t have to go. Those wanted to go, could go. I did not want to go. I elected not to go. And I’m glad I didn’t.





	W:	Why did you make that choice?



	P:	I made that choice because I felt, not that I felt out of place but I just felt like that it did not feel right to me. I did not feel right to me. It didn’t—it was like I knew they didn’t want us there.

	W:	How did you know that?



	P:	Because if they had wanted us there we would have been over there long time ago before they even made them. So they had to be made to invite us in and they really didn’t want to do that but the only reason why they did that is because it was the law. They had to follow the law.

W:  Were there any visible signs or people saying things or was it a look that people had or what was the clue to you besides “Well we should have been here before and we weren’t; they don’t want us?”

P:  Actually, when I went over there I was the only Black over there at that particular time.

W:   In the whole school?



	P:	at that summer yeah. I was the only one there. Well it was me and another guy Larry Brown, we went over there.

W:   He was the football player.



	P:	He was the football player but I really didn’t feel uneasy. I wasn’t intimidated by any of them. They never said anything out of the way to me and I mean I really didn’t expect them to say anything to me but I guess I was ready if they had said anything. I was ready in my own way.

	W:	You already had it together.





	P:	I had it together, I was ready in my own way but they never said anything to me.



	W:	So you were not going over there to perform a certain way for the people that were there. You were being real. You were just gonna be yourself.

	P:	I was gonna be myself when I went over there and was myself.



	W:	In your mind if you can recall, what were your prepared to do? And I don’t mean like “Anything necessary” but maybe that’s—could you describe?

	P:	Yeah, I was prepared to let them know that I was there while I was there. I wasn’t there because I wanted to be there. I was there because I needed that course and I was there because if I take this course I knew that if I took that course then at that particular time, you had to go to school a hundred and eighty days a year but at that particular time, that was the only other course that I needed and so if things had been the way they are today, then I could’ve skipped my twelfth grade year and went on to college but I was prepared to let them know that I’m not here because “I’m dumb, you here because you dumb—I’m here because I’m smart.”

	W:	This is business.



	P:	Yeah “I’m about to do this.”



	W:	Do you remember the teacher that summer?



	P:	Yes it was a gentleman but I don’t remember his name.



	W:	Did you feel that he was fair that the lesson, was he business-oriented as well to get the information that you needed to you and the other students?

	P:	He was business to me. I was determined that I went over there that I was gonna make an A and I was gone get my lesson. I actually, be honest with you, I saw them, saw the way they were acting and stuff like that and I really didn’t pay them





any attention because I knew that I was the focal point and I knew what they thought of us and I was gonna let them know that I got a brain and I can make an A in this course and I did.

W:  did you have a support system of teachers or kids like yourself in the community while you were going there said “Yeah you can do it. I need to work with you” or your people who were encouraging you to make sure that you got your lesson?

	P:	I’m not even sure—no because it was in the summer and at the end of the school term they said that this class was gonna be offered over there and I’m not sure it was a lot of people knew at that particular time that I was taking a course over there because mostly all the teachers [inaudible 21:02] lived out of town. During the summer time they—

	W:	Even fewer people around?



	P:	Yeah and they were tired. They had worked all year, they were exhausted. I’m sure if I were to need anything, I knew that there was somebody I could call on.

	W:	What year was this taking place?



	P:	This was in 196—the summer of 1965 I believe it was. W:	The summer of [19]65.

	P:	Actually, it was the summer of [19]66.



	W:	Summer of [19]66. You mentioned that your uncle had taken you to Temple to participate in marches when you were twelve, so now here you are the summer of [19]66, what were the things that were taking place in the country or local that had your attention as a young Black woman becoming older in young adolescence thinking about being an adult, what were the things that you were





thinking about that were broader than just going to school or being at home? You mentioned Dr. King—

	P:	Yeah, and seeing the Movement. Seeing Rosa Parks, seeing the things that the people across the country were going through; having the dogs set on them, having the water hose and all of that kind of stuff-

	W:	You were actually watching those things or you—



	P:	Yeah I was watching them on TV. I was watching them on TV, and so I could see all of those things and it just made me more determined at that particular time there was underlying stuff that was going on but nothing blatant. Nothing blatant was going on in Starke until years later that people, a lot of people who went away to the military and different stuff like that or to college, went to these other towns and could sit at the counters at the drug store and they would come back and they would see that Starke is still the same, so, “Hey we need to do something about this.” That was when that began. But at that particular time, it was just to know that they were doing—my brothers and sisters whom I did not even know the way that they were doing them and that for what? All they wanted was to be able to enjoy the United States just like everybody else because it was built on the backs of our forefathers so why can’t we enjoy it too?

	W:	Was there some type of organized genesis locally to resist some of these things or did you just naturally come about that people said “Fine I’m just gonna sit and watch. I don’t care what you think” or how did they come about that things changed here at Starke?





	P:	I think we just beginning—just like sitting down talking, then for people to kinda say that came into town so to speak, from military or whatever—you know, where we going up, they were, “Why they let you, why you let them do—?’” Like that, and stuff like that, and “We just tired,” and “Just let’s go down there. Let’s just sit, just to see what happens.” Some of that stuff I was away at that time when some of those incidents occurred, but then with some of them I was here.

	W:	Where were you away at?



	P:	I actually, when I graduated from high school I went to St. Augustine to Florida Memorial College for a couple years.

	W:	What was the atmosphere like there? Was integration, was the movement there as well because there were marches and things in St. Augustine with King and all that so what was happening when you were there?

	P:	At that particular time it was a solemn mood like on the campus. It wasn’t really anything that anybody was involved with as I knew, because I am the new kid on the block; I’m a freshman. I’m going and trying to earn in school. Trying to learn what to do you know this college thing and all so there were things that were going on out in the community, but as far as students, we were not organized to do anything. Only later when I began to go up to school over at Santa Fe where we, the Black Student Organization, where we even went up to University of Florida and even staged the sit in many, many, many years ago, I was a part of that sit in.

	W:	The 1971 Black Tuesday? P:	Yes, yes, yes.





	W:	I definitely want to hear about that. But talk to me about what happened at Santa Fe Community College, what kind of activities did you have organized there?

	P:	We had an instructor, gosh I’m trying to thin of his name right now as well as I know his name, but he came from somewhere up north and he taught Afro- American history.

	W:	A Black professor or White professor?



	P:	He was Black. He was Black and he would dress in a Kente and we were just like “Okay, what—?”

	W:	Ungawa Black power.



P:  Yes, yes, yes! And all of the music goes out say “I’m loud, I’m Black and I’m proud,” and all that kind of stuff and so-

W:  Did you have an afro? P:  I had an afro.

W:  So you had natural. P:  I still have it natural. W:  Dashikis?

P:  I had dashikis. I still have them. W:  “Free Angela Davis” buttons?

	P:	I got a hat with Apartheid stuff. I had a hat with every button that you can mention on there. Yeah with the Apartheid—with the map of Africa and a big red mark across it; a yellow, black mark across it with the red and green.

	W:	Red, black and green. Nelson Mandela, all that? P:	Yeah I have all of that. I have all of that.





	W:	Okay and that was going on at Santa Fe Junior College? P:	That was going on at Santa Fe.

	W:	Did you finish your AA there and then go to UF or you just— P:	I never did go to the University of Florida.

	W:	But you were there for the sit-in? P:	I was there for the sit-in yes.

	W:	Okay so you weren’t even a student. You sat down to be there. How did you hear about Black Tuesday, April 1971?

	P:	We were at Santa Fe. We were students at Santa Fe and so that’s what everyone was doing.

	W:	Well I mean you were at Santa Fe so how did you end up—when somebody says “Come on” or you said “We going?”

	P:	Well we were all there and we owned half the place. The organization there at Santa Fe and so we knew people that went to university. So Santa Fe was here, university was there. They got problems over there, we going over there.

	W:	Who was involved in this organization at Santa Fe? P:	Oh gosh.

	W:	Were there any officers or anything?



	P:	Let’s see, I know it was Willy Holden. It was Henry Kinsey. It was—one of the young ladies, she’s [inaudible 27:44] right now Linda Kay, it was “Honey Bun,” she was one of those main leaders. She’s non-evangelist but she-

	W:	Why’d they call her “Honey Bun”?





	P:	Well that goes back to her early years when she was a little girl. I guess they had a little store or whatever and she’d like honey buns so that was her name: Honey Bun. Everybody knew Honey Bun. Honey Bun was a radical. She was a straight out radical. She was Angela Davis Jr., so and it was gosh, it was so many people. It was so many people.

	W:	So y’all decide to go to University of Florida. How did you get there? Did you take a bus? Did you get somebody’s car and how many of you were there that decided in solidarity to support the UF protest?

	P:	It was so many—I didn’t spend the night. I went over there during the day but again to it parents like at night time you catch that bus because we call—there was a bus that came here and picked us up that lived in Bradford County that went to Santa Fe. The bus came and picked us up and brought us back.

	W:	Okay.



	P:	As a matter of fact when one of the students drove the bus. W:	Okay. [Laughter] Who was the driver of the bus?

	P:	Actually it was Judge Beron Young, his son. His son, he drove the bus and so when the bus left Gainesville you had to be on the bus because you have no way home so you had to get on the bus and so it was just something that was organized after we sat around and talked and things and plans were made. Got with the Black Student Union over at the University of Florida. And they got—

	W:	Now were you actually in the Tigert Office? Were you around it or describe how the protest, what happened? What took place?





	P:	Well, as far as I can remember, what we did was we marched over to the University of Florida and when up into Tigert Hall and the students sat down.

	W:	That’s it?



	P:	Yeah.



	W:	Just sat down?



	P:	Sat down. Wasn’t going nowhere. They were not going anywhere.



	W:	What was the purpose? What had you been told? Why were you staying there? P:	We were staying there because of the unequal opportunities that the student—

	W:	Hang up one second. [Break in interview] Okay, we’re restarting our interview after a brief pause. We were talking about the April 1971 Black Tuesday at the University of Florida being a Santa Fe student, hearing about it, going inside Tigert Hall and sitting down. What was the purpose of the sit-down?

	P:	The purpose of the sit-down was because there was because there was unequal opportunities for the Black students that was going to the University of Florida.

First of all, when it was very, very, very hard to get into University of Florida if you were Black. It was hard to get into the University of Florida, and the doors were just not open for anybody to go in. It appears that there was a different criteria for the Blacks to get in, and there was a different criteria for the Whites to get in. And so, the administration was not open to sitting down, talking things over, to try to iron things out to see—feel the heartbeat you know?

	W:	Now how were you aware of this?



	P:	I was aware of it because I was over there at Santa Fe. We would have student government meetings. We would know like I said we have some students that left





Santa Fe to go off to University of Florida, or wanted to go to University of Florida and it was hard for them to get in. And we just all hung together, so we knew that there were problems.

	W:	Now the articulation agreement, what used to be was that if you graduated from a community college and you got your degree, you could automatically go to the university that you wanted to go to. Now you’re just entitled to a university but back at that time it should have been that if somebody graduated from Santa Fe, they should be able to just come to the University of Florida. That wasn’t the case for Black students?

	P:	No, if you were White you could. W:	Okay.

	P:	But not if you were Black. That wasn’t automatic. W:	And that was widely known?

P:  That was widely known. That was widely known so you had to take these tests and you had to fill out all these applications and then you weren’t accepted into that program, into the school.

	W:	So you sat down at Tigert with everybody else? What did you all do? What was the mood like? Were people talking were they singing? What was going on inside of Tigert during the sit-in?

	P:	It was kind of as I remember, we didn’t sing. It was kind of—I think we sang on the way up in there. I think we sang on the way up in there I’m trying to think of what the song was but anyway, sang on the way up in there and then everybody just sat down. They sat down and wasn’t going anywhere.





	W:	And how long was everybody there? I know you had to go home.



	P:	I had to go home but I’m thinking that—I know that they were there late at night. They’re late. They kept everybody up when nobody in the University of Florida going to sleep. You know, they probably because I would think that the Whites was afraid, the media was there, the police were there.

	W:	How many police and media would you say there were?



	P:	Actually it had all the campus police. They had the police from within the city there. They were there. They were there and they didn’t hold back. They probably just gave uniforms to—but they were there.

	W:	A visible presence.



	P:	They were a visible presence but, but, they were cool. They were cool because I feel like they felt within their heart—they knew within their heart that we can’t overreact. We can’t overreact because we knew what’s going on in the rest of the country.

	W:	What was going on in the rest of the country?



	P:	Unrest. There was unrest. There was a lot of unrest. A lot of beatings, a lot of protesting that was not honored by others and it turned out—

	W:	It not had been any discussion about how this occupation was not gonna be violent or was there potential that nonviolence could turn into violence as well. Were all measures on the table as far as you knew?

	P:	All measures was on the table. We know we were going up in there. We were gonna sit down.





	W:	Who were the acknowledged leaders that you saw from the UF side or it was overall but who were the leaders?

	P:	I’m trying to think of the name of the professor right now but I cannot. Oh gosh I can’t think of his name but he was a professor at Santa Fe. But as I said, a lot of the students that went to the University of Florida came through Santa Fe that was students of his that he mentored so, I can’t think of his name. Gosh I can’t think of his name.

	W:	Were there any speeches? Did anybody have like a bullhorn? How was information communicated to the group that was in occupation of the building?

	P:	As far as I can remember they went to sit in, it wasn’t a- W:	Soap box to sit in? Occupy.

	P:	Occupy, occupy.



	W:	Were the front doors barricaded once people were in so nobody could get in or did you go freely back and forth?

	P:	We didn’t go in there hostile. It wasn’t a hostile takeover. W:	Just a sit in.

	P:	Sit in. [Laughter] “I’m tired, let’s sit down. We tired.” W:	Was there food for people being distributed or-

	P:	No, no, no.



	W:	What about bathrooms? Did they turn the water off or anything? Or could you still go to the bathroom?





	P:	I’m sure, I’m sure, I’m sure, I’m sure. It was meant to be what it was: a sit in. it wasn’t meant to—like you mentioned food and things brought in, no it wasn’t. it was just like if you—someone you would have to come and go.

	W:	The sit-in the purpose was to be there. P:	Was supposed to be there.

	W:	Okay was it a multiple story sit-in a multiple offices, or was it the hallways, the stairs?

	P:	It was the hallways, if I could remember; it was on the second floor. I could remember.

	W:	Where the president’s office is?



	P:	Yeah, oh yeah. [Laughter] Where else? Yeah, administration.



	W:	When you think back today about the person you are and think about those times, what are your reflections about you here in 2011 and you back in—that was forty years ago!

	P:	That was a long time ago. W:	Yeah.

	P:	That was a long time ago. I guess that my experiences in life prepared me for today and things that I thought of may have reacted to long time ago. It just prepared me for now that I knew that there was more than one way to get whatever you were after. To get that done. There’s always a way to side-step somebody and if somebody told you to sit down, you might have sat in the chair but in your mind, in your thoughts you were still standing tall. You were still standing tall. Yeah so I learned by whatever means necessary and that’s





whatever it takes, if it takes for me to keep my shut to get what I want, what I need or to help somebody else, then that’s what I do and if it means for me to speak up for someone else or for myself then that’s what I’ll do. If it costs me to get up and leave that’s what I’ll do. If it calls for me to stay, and that’s what I’ll do. So I learned that in order to do or get wherever you want to go in life or whatever the case may be, it has to be by whatever means necessary and it’s not always the violent way. It’s just by whatever means, just what it says. Just like Malcom X said: “By whatever means necessary.” And a lot of people don’t understand that. They think “That Ima get what I want if I got to go in and take it.” No. You get what you got and you get it—God brings understanding and no matter what somebody does they can’t take that from you.

	W:	How much of it translates into what you do professionally today? Do you take that attitude to work with you every day?

	P:	I take it to work with me every day. I take it to work with me every day because of the fact that I’m a nurse and I’m in and out of people’s homes caring for them both Black and White, and I do know that I’ve been in this world long enough to know if I’m accepted in a home because of who I am, because of the color of my skin. So I know how to be the most proudest Black woman that I could ever be in my life when I go in. I know how to be the most professional person that I could ever be. It doesn’t matter what they think or what they feel, it’s what the Lord has embedded inside of me of who I can be and to care for them no matter what the situation may be, to do my best to take care of them, to lay my healing hands on them and to make sure that they get all the things; their medication and





everything that they would need, because that’s my job. My job is not to judge them. My judge is to go in and take care of them and then if they have a problem then I have to let that problem be them. I have to not let what people do, think, say or feel affect me. It’s whatever they do. I have the power to know and to keep it from affecting me. That’s all I can do.

	W:	How has that helped you become the leader that you are? First of all, what is your definition of leadership?

	P:	My definition of leadership is to know how to be a follower and to know what the role of a follower is and if you know what the role of a follower is, then you can lead people because you know what a follower has to do and what a follower needs to do and what’s in the mind of a follower and what follower’s looking for in a person. So in order to be able to lead, you have to be a follower.

	W:	So, under your definition and your life experience, are you a leader?



	P:	I feel like I’m a leader. I know that I’m a leader because I know how to follow. If I need to follow, I know how to. If I need to lead, I know how.

	W:	Is there a difference being a leader as Black woman as opposed to somebody else? Do you think they’re special criteria’s, special circumstances, special instructions as a Black woman leader as opposed to somebody else?

	P:	As a Black woman yes. The bar’s raised. Someone could come in and do the same job I do but they can do it at a minimal and it’ll be okay but I have to go in and I have to—the bar’s raised as soon as I walk in the door.

	W:	Why do you feel that way?





	P:	I feel that way because people feel like it’s okay that you don’t go all the way to do everything that you need to do another certain person. It’s okay, I mean you know that’s what we’re used to. That’s what you’re used to. You can do that but you, you got to prove yourself because first of all I don’t feel like you don’t know what you’re doing no way because of who you are and so you got to do something that I didn’t even know could be done. You gonna have to say something that I didn’t even know to be said and you’re gonna have to suggest something that I didn’t even think about so when we get ready to put it in motion, it was my idea.

	W:	That’s an unusually heavy burden to carry. Do you feel that way going into every professional situation?

	P:	It depends, just size it up and it’s not a burden. I feel like it’s a gift. It’s not a burden.

	W:	In what way is it a gift?



	P:	It’s a gift because I know where I came from and I know what I’d learned and I know who I am and I’m proud of that and so I want everybody to know every situation I go into, who I am, how proud I am, and I can do it and if you need it, if I got it, you can have it and if you’re sick, I can help you and if you don’t know where to get your medication from I can get it. If you don’t know how to take care of your family member or you don’t know [inaudible 43:21] I can help you cope with that. To me, it’s me. They’re just making me be more me.

	W:	Do you make yourself available as a mentor to others just in general and also perhaps do you look for other Black women to be mentors too?





	P:	Yes I make myself available. People know I have friends and; people who I associate with that know that they can come to me, they can find answers and to know that if I don’t know the answer then I will find the answer and find it very soon because my mom always told us when we were growing up, we asked “Mom I don’t know how to do this.” “Okay, one thing about it tomorrow this time you won’t be able to say that.” And so, she taught us early that if you don’t know it you need to find it out.

	W:	How do you think your leadership has prepared you for this responsibility you’ve taken on to be the hostess, the leader, the ambassador of Robinson Jenkins Ellison High in this 2011 reunion?

	P:	How has—?



	W:	How has your leadership and your past experience prepared you for this particular role?

	P:	Just like I said my experience with my motto, it’s not you can’t let what people say, think, feel or do affect you. It’s how you let it affect you and so you have to know that they may have said it for one reason and did it for another reason or not did it or not said it for many, many, many reasons and so you can’t always look at the negative part of things. You have to be positive.

	W:	What are your positive reflections upon this weekend? What are your expectations?

	P:	My expectations for this people that’s in town, the people that’s coming from out of town, come and just reflect back on the memories of their RJE that they will want to come back again, they would remember, that they would take the





memorabilia with them and that they will tell their children about it, their grandchildren about it and that they just always remember that their RJE is here and we just love every moment of it. Our expectation is for everybody to come and just have a grand old time just to visit Starke, just to let the presence of them being in this community just be a broad statement.

	W:	And how is this event reflect upon Starke in general and on the young people who are here in schools that didn’t have the benefit of the type of education you had, how do you feel it reflects on them for Starke in general and for young people in Starke in particular?

	P:	For Starke in general, it let people know that even though you closed it down, even though you tried to burn it down, you couldn’t shut it down and to let the children in the community know that we do have a school. That’s not across the tracks; not necessarily where you came from. You have something in your community. They have a school over there that you go to but you got one over here that you go to because a lot of kids never had that experience of coming, of being here at RJE. Now they do through the mentoring program and through that school program and activities that they have in the gym. By the concerned citizens and everything, these children are able to know that “Yeah we got a place in our community. This is our community and we’re here.”

W:  And do you hope that by putting on this activity bi-annually that you’ll inspire the students, the youth and the community to buy into RJE as a place of solace and support and the continuation to join this legacy as well?





	P:	Well yes I do believe that because each year we give out scholarships and so we plan on having those young people that we’re giving out scholarships to come back at some point in time and we’re going to talk with them and interview them and all of that and just let them know that “Hey, we got RJE. We have a school. If you can’t make it over there, we got some people over here who you come and we’ll tutor you for minimal cost and—this is your school. This is your school.”

	W:	In a broader sense, outside of this community and connecting with others because that was kinda one of the things that A. Quinn Jones is noted for working with principals and Black leaders in other schools in the same sense. How do your activities here help preserve the memory and the legacy of other Black high schools and what are your activities in that regard?

	P:	Okay what we found isn’t historic like high school alliance and we kind of fell off a little while but we’re getting back together where we’re connected with the different schools in the different communities like Mebane, Columbia Lake City over in Dumba High School over in Green Cove. [inaudible 48:45] high school over in Fernandina and Union Consolidated High School over in Lake Butler, Mebane of course and like I said Lincoln and other—I think it’s about twelve of them and so we’re now talking with one of the schools in, I forget, where it is, I think it’s up in Martin County. I’m not sure but they have a school building there that’s just standing there idle and they didn’t know that they have the right to go in and do whatever they needed to do to get their school back.

	W:	So you’re consulting as well? P:	Right.





	W:	What has been the reaction? What is it that you’ve gotten back from other Black community leaders and former high school students and teachers? Have they been open and receptive to what you’ve offered?

	P:	They’ve been open and receptive. Matter of fact, we had a big celebration where we invited them all in. So we had each school there, representatives from schools. We just had a large gathering and we had every school. Every school was there with their school colors on, with their T-shirts on and everything so we’ve had very positive.

	W:	About this basketball game tonight, I’m just curious, who’s going to be playing in it? Is it going to be the teachers versus the students? Is it going to be RJE versus members from other schools? How is that gonna work this evening?

	P:	Usually we have RJE versus but Mebane High School over in Alachua but I don’t think we were able to get together with them this year but it’s gonna be our alumni members. They’re gonna be playing the younger boys. Everybody who think they play basketball, who think they can still play basketball, they’re gonna come out, they’re gonna put on tennis shoes, they’re gonna grab a basketball, they’re gonna run up and down. The coach—they’re gonna fall out, we’re gonna give them water, we’re gonna give them resuscitation. [Laughter] It’s gonna be hilarious. It’s gonna be off the chain for real.

	W:	So as a nurse, you’re expecting that your skills will be called upon this evening?



	P:	Maybe my skills will be called upon but I’m hoping that their senses kick in first and they need to go somewhere and sit down. But we’ll be keeping a close eye on them.





	W:	So we’re expecting maybe some sprains but that’s about it. P:	That’s about it. That’s about it.

	W:	Well Ms. Petteway I cannot tell you how much I’ve enjoyed having our chat and on behalf of that Sam Proctor Oral History Program, I want to thank you for your invitation to participate in this spectacular weekend which started nine o’clock this morning at the Starke Country Club. It’s gonna end with the services and the picnic on Sunday; great three day event and I always close my interview with that thanks and give the person I’ve spoken with the opportunity for any final comments that they would make and this would be my last remark and whatever you say here at the end, when you finish, whatever it is that’ll conclude the interview.

	P:	I’m so grateful to this. Not by happens to chance that we met up together in the parking lot that evening and I’m very grateful that we did and I’m very grateful to know that there’s someone like you and your team who are out there and who—I don’t know whether you went to historic Black high school or not, but I know that your parents did and I know for you to want to dig up things that have happened to historic Black high schools, to find out where they are, where the people are, find out what they’re doing is to be commended of you to have that thought to do that but, I’m so glad that we were able to—RJE High School was able to be a part of that because we are a part of history and so many times in over the years as we know and you read your history books, we did when we were coming up there was nobody my color your color in those history books. There was a smaller brief paragraph on George Washington Carver and that was about it. But





we do know that we have many [inaudible 52:43] going on to do a lot of things, a lot of inventions as a matter of fact we have a lot of Whites who have helped us as far as—in the struggle as well because at that city and there were some lights up there too so we not in it by ourselves. This is not a Black versus White situation this is just for the common cause of human mankind and here at RJE they just taught us the basics. They just taught us that like the old saying goes “There’s no place like home.” Thank you very much. God bless you.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Sandra Romero, February 23, 2016 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 9, 2018

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019