AAHP 036; Allen; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 036 W. George Allen African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on February 7, 2009 10 minutes | 6 pages



Abstract: In this interview, W. George Allen discusses his experience of being the first African American graduate from the University of Florida at the Celebrate the Firsts Weekend Gala. Two years into his attendance at the school, he realized he was the only Black student, so he recruited nine more students to come and join him. He convinced White students to bring Black people to the football games and ended up integrating the stadium. Some instrumental people in his life during his time at UF were Reverend T.A. Wright, Stephan Mickle, Dr. Cullen Banks, and John Dukes.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; Celebrate the Firsts; Integration]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 036

Interviewee: W. George Allen Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: September 7, 2009



	W:	This is Marna Weston, with the Oral History Program of the University of Florida on September 7th, 2009 at Emerson Hall. We are at the Celebrate the Firsts Weekend Gala. This is a recognition of the fifty-year anniversary of integration of the University of Florida. I happen to have with me Mr. W. George Allen, first graduate in the College of Law, and I believe also the first student to graduate from the University of Florida who’s African American, but you can correct me on the history, sir, if—

	A:	Yes, that is correct.



	W:	Mr. Allen, thank you for the interview today. A:	Glad to be here.

	W:	How does it feel to come to something like this? Emerson Hall, these are great facilities, we’re across from Florida Field, and from the O’Connell Center, and this is a night to celebrate the Firsts.

	A:	And it’s good to be here. When I started the law school in 1960, we were on the corner of University and 441 in the old school, and when I walked in that first day in September of 1960, the dean of law school sent for me and said, “We didn’t know you were coming.” And I said, “What do you mean you didn’t know I was coming?” He said, “We didn’t know we were going to have a Black!” And I said, “Well, I’m here, what you going do?” And he said, “Nothing. Go back to class.” So I had an eventful two and a half years here. I graduated in two years and four months, because I wanted to hurry up and get out. And my wife was tired of working. And so, in September of 1962, I realized that I was the only Black





student in the university, and there were no other Black students here. So, I went out and I recruited nine students to come to the University of Florida; two of them are being honored tonight. It’s Stephan Mickle and Johncyna Williams who is now married to—I can’t think of his name, but anyways—

	W:	Hal McRae.



	A:	Hal McRae. But those two graduated from the University of Florida, but I’m instrumental in bringing them here, because I realized that I was getting ready to graduate, and leaving no Blacks here.

	W:	When you think of the prestige and recognition the University of Florida is receiving today, not only academically but through our sports network, the Gator Nation, what kind of tie does that mean to you, to the University of Florida?

	A:	It’s great. Because when I started here, there were no Black athletes. There were one hundred seats in the end zone for colored people to attend the University of Florida athletic events at Florida Field. And I integrated not only the law school, but I integrated the football stadium. [Laughter] I organized a group of Vlack students—Black people that wanted to come to the games—and I got White students to bring Blacks to the University of Florida football games. As a result of my organization of “bring one to the football game,” we integrated the football stadium at the University of Florida. The team was not integrated ‘til sometime after I left, but I did integrate the stadiums before I left.

	W:	Now, were you there for any of the—this would have some interest for the Florida fan out there—did you hear Mr. Two Bits when he was first getting started out there?





	A:	I heard him, but I’m not very athletic, and I didn’t really care about sports. I went to keep some White students from going, because they said they would never go to a football game with a nigger. And I said, “You’re not going as long as I’m here.” So, I went to keep them out off the field, not to really enjoy football, because I’m not really a sports person, per se.

	W:	What kind of support did you experience in the community, and did that come from people that worked here? Teachers?

	A:	No, people from the community: churches—Reverend Wright was just a jewel, and he still is. When I recruited the nine students to come here, I lied to their parents and said that the University of Florida sent me to recruit Black students because they were welcome. After I got the nine to come here, I went to Reverend Wright and says, “I’ve lied to their parents, I’ve lied to the students, you’ve got to help me keep them here.” And he did. He got the Ministerial Association together, and helped those kids stay here—including Stephan Mickle. We also—the organizations, we got the support of organizations. Dr.

Cullen Banks was just a jewel, and the principal of the—there was a teacher then, John Dukes—

	W:	Mr. Dukes only recently passed.



	A:	Yeah, recently passed. John Dukes was the first Black to go with me to a football game. He stayed for the first half. And he says, “Are you afraid?” And I says, “No.” And he says, “I am scared to death!” [Laughter] And I said, “Look behind us. You see all those uniformed people there?” He said, “Yeah.” I said, “They’re there to protect their Black students at this university.” And John said, “I’m not a





Black student here; I’ll see you later, my brother!” [Laughter] We were fraternity brothers. So he left me there, and I had to sit through the second half by myself.

	W:	What are your reflections on the University of Florida as an institution of higher learning and its commitment to the African American student?

	A:	I’ve seen a sea change since I was here. They are really out—they didn’t recruit me, I came because I wanted to help integrate the school. And the rest of the Blacks that came, they didn’t come because University of Florida invited them. Now it started with the sports. They had to be competitive, so they had to recruit Black athletes. And as a result of recruiting Black athletes to become competitive, they started recruiting Black students. For years, they never recruited the academic Black. They recruited Black athletes. But now you’ll see, because of all the expanded programs—and also because of integration, and because of federal-funded programs—that they have to be open. They have opened themselves up. And it’s helped the university to become multiracial, multicultural, and it’s a better institution because there is a better racial mix at this institution, at all levels.

	W:	Can you share a high point and a low point in your University of Florida experience?

	A:	I guess my low point was when they denied Virgil Hawkins the right to come here. When he started in the [19]40s and [19]50s, I met Virgil when I was at Florida A&M University. When he was in and out of courts in Tallahassee, trying to get the right for Blacks to come here. And when they denied him the privilege of coming here, it kind of gave me the impetus to come, because I said, “They





won’t let Virgil in, I’ll go in.” That was a low point, the way they treated Virgil. And even after he graduated from a university in Massachusetts, the Bar Association wouldn’t allow him in. And he was only seventy years old when he was admitted to practice the law! And he got in under diploma privilege, but let’s face it: when you seventy years old, you are beyond the peak of your productivity. So, he didn’t do well, and he got disbarred. But they did—I guess the high point in the state of Florida is when they reinstated him posthumously, after his death.

Because he said he wanted to die a lawyer, and he died a lawyer. I gave the commencement address here for the law school when John Mills was dean. That was probably one of the high points. And, three years ago, I sat on the stage, and I put the hood on my daughter Amy Allen, who graduated from the University of Florida forty years after me. So in 2002, she entered and graduated in 2005.

That was probably the high point, a generation.



	W:	With so many struggles, such a story to tell, we have a national campaign this year: “When did you first become a Gator?” So, if you’ll reflect on that and give a response, when did you first become a Gator?

	A:	1960, when I entered here. I knew from having grown up in the state of Florida, and being a political science major, that the people who run the state of Florida were Florida Gators. And I wanted to be a part of it. And I am now, a part of the people that run the state of Florida. I’m involved politically, and I’m involved with the University of Florida, financially, and—I’m happy to be a part of the Gator Nation.





	W:	If there’s anything I haven’t covered in the interview, a reflection or point you’d like to make, please feel free to make that at this time.

	A:	No. You’ve covered it.



	W:	Thank you very much, sir. A:	Very good. Thank you. [End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, April 17, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019