AAHP 070; Hinson; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 070 Yvonne Hinson African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on September 5, 2009 23 minutes | 14 pages



Abstract: Yvonne Hinson was born in 1947 in Gainesville, Florida. She graduate from Lincoln High School while some of her siblings moved up North to New York. She talks about her siblings and family life, and her parents’ and grandparents’ strong belief in education; college was an expectation. She participated in sit-ins, pickets, and parades in order to bring awareness to the fight for racial equality, and in 2008 canvassed for President Barack Obama.



For college, she initially went to Santa Fe for its inaugural year and joined the band, and later transferred to the University of Florida. She was employed at UF through work study, and while she mostly focused on academics, she made many friends and had, in her words, “some of the best times of [her] life”.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; Student Activism; Civil Rights Movement]



































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 070

Interviewee: Yvonne Hinson Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: September 5, 2009



	W:	This is Marna Weston, at the Hilton of the University of Florida, just off campus on September 5, 2009 and I'm speaking with Yvonne Hinson a graduate of the University of Florida and a colleague through the Alachua Democratic Party. We know each other through a couple of different venues and I just want to thank you Yvonne for agreeing to do our interview today. We're at African American Alumni Weekend for the University of Florida and if you please just state and spell completely your name.

	H:	Yvonne Hayes Hinson, Y-V-O-N-N-E, H-A-Y-E-S, H-I-N-S-O-N.



	W:	Okay, could you say when you were born? H:	November 30, 1947.

	W:	And where were you born?



	H:	Gainesville, Florida. I was born a Gator.



	W:	Okay, born a Gator. Who are your mother and father?



	H:	My mother is Annie Darce, Jackson is her maiden name. My father is Lewis Earl Hayes.

	W:	And do you recall or could you tell us their dates of birth?



	H:	My mother was born December 19. My father was born January 13. W:	And what about their parents, what were their names?

	H:	My father's parents were Thomas and Beulah Hayes. My mother's parents were Morton Jackson and Aida Cooke.

	W:	And were they also from the Gainesville area?



	H:	No, they were all from somewhere different. From what I understand my father's





father was from Alachua, right before High Springs. And my father's mother was from Bartow. My mother, actually, was born in Lockton, Georgia and her mother was born in Lockton, Georgia and her father was born in, I believe, Marianna, Florida.

	W:	Do you have brothers or sisters?



	H:	Yes, there were six of us. My youngest brother just was tragically killed a year ago but the five of us remain. There were three girls and three boys.

	W:	I'm so very sorry for your loss. H:	Thank you.

	W:	What were your brother's and sisters names?



	H:	I'm the eldest and my second brother is Herman Lee Jefferson Junior. I have a sister named Gayle Ingram Wallie, I have a brother named William Ingram Junior, I have a sister named Marylyn Ingram—I'm giving you their maiden names.

	W:	That's fine.



	H:	And then finally, my deceased brother Vearl Ingram.



	W:	I'm sorry to pry, we don't have to talk about it if you don't want to, but you said he was tragically killed, was—

	H:	Violently.



	W:	—there an accident? Violently? H:	Yeah, he was murdered.

	W:	Someone broke in his home, or—?



	H:	No, he had a quarrel with someone he had worked for that day and the guy didn't





want to pay him what he thought he owed him, and rather than mediate the situation he decided to go and deal with it violently. Instead of my brother walking away, he fought with him and the gun—the guy shot him.

	W:	I'm so very sorry. What was the outcome? Is that gentleman in prison now? Or pardon me, that man in prison?

	H:	Oh yeah, he's in prison.



W:  That was kind of an unpleasant memory, perhaps just to balance things out you could share a pleasant memory from your childhood, something you remember about your brother.

	H:	My brother was so smart that he outsmarted himself a lot. My youngest brother was smart enough to play hooky from school and go to school on test day and pass the test. [Laughter] And there for every other day. That was something that always amazed me and my siblings, that he could play hooky from school and still make better grades than we made. It was always amazing to us. He was a great athlete and a good runner. He had great stature and he was always conscious of his health. Even from a child he was very careful what he ate and he was like that as an adult as well. Very careful about his body.

	W:	Where'd you all go to school?



	H:	Well, everybody went somewhere different. I'm a "Lincolnian." I graduated from Lincoln High School as did the first two of us. My sister who went to Lincoln High School with my second brother, graduated from Lincoln High School. My next sister went to Lincoln High School, but during her high school years my mother moved to New York taking the younger siblings with her. Therefore my middle





sister graduated from Huntington High School in Huntington, New York, as did the rest of them. The younger ones, they all went to Huntington High School.

	W:	What is one of your most powerful positive memories of education as you were growing up?

	H:	There are many. The strong teachers that we had, they cared whether we passed or failed and the seriousness with which they took their role in the education process. And also the personal contacts they made with individual students that they saw gifts in or they help a calling for. They would hitch themselves to us without anybody asking them to and mentor and coach us into where they felt we should be. That's a very powerful memory. I also remember my father's family, who believe strongly in education more than my mother's family, were literally paying me for certain grades.

	W:	Wow!



	H:	Yes, they would give me dollars for As and certain dollars for Bs, which got my attention very early on in life.

	W:	[Laughter] I can only imagine.



	H:	Exactly. And then they started making promises to me very early on: Who's gonna send me to college and who's gonna pay this for me. Therefore it left an embedded picture in my mind that college was expected. On my mother's side, I was the first college student, no one else had ever gone before me, and my grandmother had never gone to school. In fact, she couldn't read nor write, but she was smart enough to start an educational endowment for me, when I was born as a baby. Therefore leaving an impression on me that she too expected





me to go to college. 'Cause she had been saving her pennies and in those days they were called penny funds. She started saving her pennies for me as a child and she would always say “All right, this is going into your penny fund.” And I heard an insurance man call it, one day, and educational endowment, then I realized what the penny fund was really for, education. And I thought, she's been scripping her pennies together all this time, I darn well better be ready to go to somebody's college.

	W:	What year did you begin your bachelors education?



	H:	I would say [19]65. 1965 is when I came out of high school. I did not start right away. I didn't start, I think, until that first semester of the following year, which was like late December, Early January of [19]65, [19]66.

	W:	Did you go to a community college or— H:	Yes I did, Santa Fe Community College.

	W:	Okay, so 1965 that would've been the first year that they started. H:	That was the first year Santa Fe started.

	W:	So you're the inaugural class of Santa Fe. H:	I was in that inaugural class.

	W:	What was it like at Santa Fe during that first year?



	H:	Well, you know we were at a high school building. I think it had been Buchholz or something initially and it was right downtown. It actually stood where the medical building is now, or 702, or whatever that building is called now that they go to for the medical treatment. There was an old historic building there and it was beautiful architecture, but we had regular classes, there were good teachers.





Many of the teachers from the University of Florida actually taught classes at the inaugural building of Santa Fe, because initially they had to recruit teachers. But there was a band class, I had been in the marching band at Lincoln so I took a couple of band classes and I actually performed with the band at Santa Fe. The classes were rigorous, the teachers, many of them, like I said were actually University of Florida teachers so I think we got a strong foundation.

	W:	Well I'm fascinated to hear more about Santa Fe and I'd like to come back to it, but I just had a stream of thought about the times. We're talking about 1965, this is after the Freedom Riders and after a lot of stuff that happened in the early [19]60s with the sit-ins that must have taken place while you were in high school.

	H:	I participated in a sit-in. W:	Here in Gainesville?

	H:	Yes, sir.



	W:	What types of sit-ins and what took place?



	H:	We use to march in lines in front of the theaters. W:	Which theater?

	H:	The one downtown, the Florida Theater. W:	Florida Theater.

	H:	Right, Florida Theater surprise he came up just like that. W:	Wise's Drugs?

	H:	Wise's Drugs, yes. And on 13th St. there was another little sundry shop there, that we sat out in front of it; at some point kept cars from going in, if we couldn't go in, they couldn't go in. At risk to our own lives we would get in the drive way





and sit. We had gone downtown to a Woolworth's Drug Store and sat at the sundry counter, knowing we weren't going to be served [inaudible 10:21]. Yes, there was the College Inn.

	W:	The College Inn?



	H:	The College Inn.



	W:	Where the purple porpoise was and where the Gator City is now. H:	Uh-huh, uh-huh!

	W:	Somebody told me about that— H:	That College Inn, yeah—

	W:	Because I have frequented that—That's the whole thing, I've come here and gone to there many times. Didn't know anything about the history of that.

	H:	It's not there anymore, but yeah, that was a big cafeteria and a hard nut to crack.



Charles Chestnut tells the story of how he went in and got served and they wouldn't serve anybody else and we know in those days, he's very fair complected, so he's saying like, “You know, well I'm Black.” [Laughter] “Why can't you serve my friends?” He tells that story quite vividly, I can't remember it in detail the way he tells it. I served quite a few different things. We use to picket and have parades and all kinds of things to bring awareness to [inaudible 11:15].

	W:	Who were some of the leaders? If I—



	H:	Well actually, Charles Chestnut was one of the leaders, and my uncle Vernon Hayes, Vernon Walley Hayes, he doesn't take any credit for it, but he the reason I got involved. 'Cause he came and got me one day and said, “You're gonna do this.” And he would pick me up so that I would be at the meetings, we met at the





church, Mount Pleasant was my mother's church, that's where we use to meet to coordinate our activities.

W:  Now was this under the Congress of Racial Equality, or the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, or was it just sort of Gainesville indigenous groups, or just grew up organically here?

H:  I wish I could tell you, I know more about it but I wanna say this was N-A-A-C-P. But it was connected with the Martin Luther King’s School Movement.

	W:	SCLC?



	H:	SCLC.



	W:	Okay, Southern Christian Leadership.



	H:	'Cause we got most of our marching orders from them.



	W:	Okay, terrific. Well now, before we get back to Santa Fe, cause that's fascinating, I wanna ask you, and now talking about the sit-ins, how do you feel about fifty years have passed, February 1st will be fifty years since the sit-ins started.

	H:	Really?



	W:	February 1, 1960, this will be February 1, 2010. There's gonna be a huge kind of reunion/ get-together at Shaw University. A lot of people are talking about going to it.

	H:	Where is Shaw University? W:	It's in North Carolina.

	H:	Oh, hm—I didn't know that.



	W:	Well I'm happy to share that little bit of information. H:	Thank you, very much.





	W:	Hopefully we'll both get to go.



	H:	One thing I wanna tell you about activism, it gets in your skin. When you do that, that young an age, you knew things pop up that aren't just. I get this calling, this activism calling. Like I gotta do something, I gotta do something. And I felt that same thing when Obama started running for office. And when I started talking to my counterparts and they were saying things like, “We'll never elect a Black man. Like man I'm not gonna waste my vote on a Black man.” I knew then, it's time for me to get busy cause these people think it's not possible and my God says all things are possible.

	W:	So true. I have to admit I was one of those people, I was very skeptical that he could win.

	H:	But I believed it from the very beginning. Therefore I got involved first by contributing a little more every now and then and one day they called me and asked for money and I said, “Wait a minute, I wanna be more involved than just handing money, I wanna know what else I can do.” I said, “Cause I have more gifts and talents that I can offer this campaign other than money.” And they called me one day and asked me would I travel to Charleston, South Carolina. They actually asked me to come to Florence, and I said I can't drive that far, I will drive to Charleston. I spent a week in Charleston campaigning and I helped them bring in that South Carolina vote that was so critical to his campaign, do you remember that?

	W:	Yes I do, and there was a lot of controversy about that weekend. H:	The clans were in there fighting—





	W:	Everybody thought that they were stealing the votes, or something. Some polls were closed and things.

	H:	Yeah, we had to set up— I could tell you a lot of stuff about that, but you're not here for that today.

	W:	Well, actually we can mix that in.



	H:	They actually closed. In South Carolina Republicans vote a week ahead of the Democrats, so the Republicans polls that they had during the republican campaign were closed and they changed the locations for the Democratic elections.

	W:	We heard there were some shenanigans going on.



	H:	So we had to make door hangers and we went into every community till the day before the election and told every resident where they were going to vote at, where their poll was. By the time [inaudible 15:09] we had about eighteen, maybe fifteen, volunteers, all in charge of [inaudible 15:18]. By Wednesday, we were training almost a thousand volunteers. By Friday we had more volunteers than we had room. It was just too many people. I stayed till Thursday night, cause that's when Obama came. Obama came and did a rally Thursday night, I got the rally I got up Friday, I took a tour of Charleston and I came home 'cause I figured my job was done. They got over five thousand foot soldiers now in Charleston, they ought to be able to do what they gotta do. But it started with me.

	W:	Terrific. So you said that activism imbues you with a spirit?



	H:	And it never goes away. If something you know needs to be done, suddenly your spirit starts recharging you can feel it, oh no, I gotta do something, I need to do





something. Because, if you ever seen the difference you can make in one venue you know you can make a difference in venue.

	W:	So, here's my question to you then: What is your definition that you've accumulated over your experience, of the word leadership? What is leadership?

	H:	I would say leadership is a profound and, actually a vision, of the way things can be and the ability and stamina to pursue it.

	W:	That was profound [laughter]. So we're back at Santa Fe Community College. H:	I thought we were going on to the University of Florida?

	W:	Oh, we're gonna get there, we're at Santa Fe. H:	I don’t think we’re gonna have that much time.

	W:	Well, let's move ahead to University of Florida then. Now, please tell me what you like about you're University of Florida experience.

	H:	Well now, most people have a lot of negative things to say. I will admit that these were some of the best times of my life.

	W:	Really?



	H:	Yes. When I came to Florida I had already been an employee. I knew the campus well, I already had many connections, but none of them were in the classroom. I had a support system, they were mostly White, but that was support system nevertheless because I had had personal contact with these people. After having a year of full time employment and then I was easily able to move into what the call work-study or OPS, so I kept my job. I do believe that helped me, to some degree, stay focused. I left Santa Fe, came into the University of Florida, knew where I was going, knew what I came for and didn't get side tracked by a





lot of social activities, I must say. I stayed focused in the classroom, but I did have a good time. Being at home as well, I already had a social life and a social life separate apart from the University of Florida. At lot of people here actually looked to me to find social avenues, because there was none for Black people at the University of Florida. There weren't any frats and sororities, there was no AVA, there were no clubs, no organizations, not at that time. We had to find our own social avenues and for the people that I met I would always let them know what was going on out in the community with Black people. In the classroom, the challenge that I think I found initially was that the traditional education that I was use to was different in terms of the way it was structured. They believed in a lot of team work, they believed in a lot of projects, a lot of project-oriented instruction. A lot of higher order thinking skills that I wasn't quite use to doing.

But, I'm a friendly person, so I always teamed up with somebody or somebody, for the most part, teamed up with me, because, being Black, I was a little more hesitant to join. But, I found the students were great allies for me in the classroom, even if the teacher wanted to ostracize me or discriminate against me in any way, it was the students who came to my defense, almost all the time.

Even when I was oblivious to it. So then, it was the students that pulled me along. Not even mentoring me, but me finding out in the one on one setting that I was just as smart as they are. We are pretty much equal and in many cases I'm smarter than they are. So they started calling upon me to join their study groups. I found myself in study groups for almost every class and not realizing, this is the way they get ahead, they get together. Whereas we get isolated and try to do this





by ourselves. We would meet at each other's homes, we would meet in the alcoves in the library, but worked together, we didn't try to do this thing by ourselves. Another thing I really enjoyed was that the friendships that I made, the classes that some of my friends had taken before me and the classes that I had taken, we would get together and compare notes. What is this teacher like? What is that teacher like? Frankly, I think that that is a very strong suit that I would like to hand down to the new generations coming in. You don't have to do this alone, there are other people. Share notes with people who have already had these classes. Learn what this instructor wants, because it's not even about you, it's about what that teacher wants. Figure it out and give him what he wants. I had a great time.

	W:	You are exquisitely dressed as a Gator today for Black Alumni Weekend. H:	I'm a proud Gator, man. I'm a number one Gator.

	W:	When did you first know you were a Gator?



	H:	Well, like I said, I was born a Gator. I'm in Gator country. My brothers use to go to Gator games and sell sodas at the game and we would hear all the noise from the stadium all the way out in East Gainesville. We would pass by wanting to get in, but my brothers use to go there and we wanted to know all the stories when they got home. In fact we'd sit around waiting to hear the stories, about what went on at the games 'cause they were in there selling the sodas and the popcorn.

	W:	Yvonne Hinson, appreciated this opportunity to chat with you, I'm sure there we'll be able to think of some ideas that come from this interview to extend it a little bit





more, perhaps on a non-game day.



	H:	Okay.



	W:	Wanna thank you on behalf of the Oral History Archives of the University of Florida and I conclude our interview by just asking you to make a comment you might want to make about today or about this concept or whatever. When your comments are over, that'll conclude the interview.

	H:		I would like to say that I have been interested in oral history subject, the whole idea of oral histories, for some time. In fact, as an educator, I was a student principal, I use to teach my kids how to do oral histories for the school. Now I would like to do an oral history with my eldest aunt, who is eighty-four years old, so that we will have some record of our family history. And I would be interested in knowing how to do such a thing with my aunt for my family and hopefully one of you will teach me that.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Justin Dunnavant



	Audit edited by:	Sandra Romero, August 10, 2017 Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019