AAHP 794; Sharpless; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 794 Osmond Sharpless 2-28-2020

Interviewed by Grace Chun and Julian Valdivia on February 28, 2020 125 minutes | 25 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Cantonment, Florida local Osmond Sharpless recalls his nine decades of life in the Pensacola, Florida area. Sharpless, born with the help of a midwife in June of 1931, grew up on a three-acre lot along Muskogee Road in Cantonment, Florida. The Great Depression played a major role in the early years of Sharpless’s life, and he remembers his father’s efforts to provide for their family during the hardship by retrieving abandoned wood to process in his own sawmill. His father also used wood from the sawmill to renovate the school buses for Escambia County School System. Sharpless also shares his extensive knowledge of American history, particularly the history of the Mississippi River Delta Region. He recalls the early conflicts between European nations for possession of Florida and other lands in the southeast, and the impact of these conflicts on the course of history. Particularly, Sharpless remembers Florida’s involvement in the cattle trade and the resulting Florida “cracker” culture which emerged during the nineteenth century. Sharpless also recalls the impact of integration in Pensacola, particularly as it pertained to employees at International Paper Mill and to students in Escambia County public schools, including Sharpless’s own daughter.



Keywords: [Pensacola, Florida, integration, Cantonment, Mississippi River Delta, Perdido Key, southeast]



AAHP 794

Interviewee: Osmond Sharpless Interviewer: Grace Chun and Julian Valdivia Date: February 28, 2020

	C:		Hello, my name is Grace Chun and I’m with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Today is February 28th, 2020, and I’m sitting here with Julian Valdivia—

	V:	Hello!



	C:	And we are here to interview Osmond C. Sharpless. Thank you so much for joining us today. Do you mind introducing yourself and spelling your name for the audio recording?

	S:	My name is Osmond C. Sharpless. My nickname is Bo and so I’ve told interviewers that they might refer to me as that during the interview. I’ve lived in Cantonment eighty-five years, yeah. Actually, a little more than that, but not much. And I really feel proud that I’ve been asked to do this interview. So let’s have it.

	C:	Alright, so where were you born?



	S:	Literally I was born at home about five miles out off the highway from Pensacola. C:	And when were you born?

	S:	June 14th, 1931.



	C:	1931. Did you have siblings? S:	Yes.

	C:	Were they all born at home as well? S:	No. None.

	C:	Are you the oldest?



	S:	Oh, I have two sisters and they were all born at home, yes. I’m sorry, I didn’t understand your question.

	C:	It’s okay. Was there a midwife present, do you know, or was it just family?





	S:	I really don’t know. My older sister, she was five years older than I, and my younger sister is almost nine years younger. And what a surprise to me when I was about almost nine years old when I came in from playing one afternoon to find a little squirt in the bed with my mama. That was what I knew about it at that time. [Laughter]

	C:	Do you remember, with you sister, do you go to the hospital to register the birth or do you know what happens?

	S:	I really don’t know how that works. C:	Okay.

S:  Oh I believe the attending physician or whoever’s in charge, I believe my mother had a Black midwife, but everybody got registered at any rate. Either the midwife or the doctor filled out a registration form.

V:   And have you been Bo since you were a kid or did that nickname come later on? S:   Well, when I was a toddler we lived over across the L&N—CSX railroad now—

and I was out with my grandfather and some other older kids, asked me, said, “What’s your name?” And my grandfather said, “Tell ‘em it’s Sambo.” Keep in mind this is 1933. And my mother overheard the conversation, and she says, “You can call him Sam or you can call him Bo but you can’t call him Sambo.” And I don’t know whether your familiar with a kids book called Little Black Sambo.

C:   Oh.



S:   And that was not allowed in the 1930s, and so I’ve been bullied ever since.



Actually, my first name, Osmond, while I was in the Army it got shorted to Ozzie. I kind of liked that. But I came home, and I made a mistake. Right after I got out





of the Army I met up with a high school classmate and he was going back over to Tallahassee for the spring semester and so he says, “Why don’t you go with me and see what you think?” So I went and of course, he knew me as Bo, and it’s been Bo ever since.

	C:	I see. Can you tell us a little bit about your parents? Were they also from this area?

	S:	My father was from southeast Pennsylvania; he grew up in Westchester which is right on Brandywine Creek. Actually, it’s only about fifteen miles down to Wilmington, Delaware. And his father fell off of a windmill tower when my father was seven years old, and so it was up to him, his brothers, and one sister to pitch in and make the family go. So he grew up having a multitude of jobs. One of his favorite stories—or that I thought was favorite to me—was when he had a milk grout. And he tells me it was horse-drawn, but his horse would let him take the hand carrier and go to the door and put the milk there and pick up the empty bottles and go to the next house. His horse would, keep time with him going down the block. Another one of his jobs was he had at Hershey’s factory, but he said those almonds were too good and he had to quit the job. [Laughter] Also he was on the extra board with the Pennsylvania railroad, and me and a couple of my kids discovered that their home place was only two blocks from the railroad yard in Westchester. So that was another job. Also I found out that he worked down in Wilmington, Delaware in a power house down there and was certified as a powerhouse operator, that led to his coming south actually. One of his brothers got to be an electrical engineer and was working for the power company in Saint





Petersburg, Florida. And so, my dad said that his brother had a job for him and so he came south. He decided to come south in December on a motorcycle.

V:   Wow!



S:   And his story is that the morning he left Westchester he had to sweep the snow off the motorcycle with a broom. Makes me shudder to think of it. While he was en route, his brother got transferred to Pensacola.

V:   Oh okay.



	S:	So this changed his plans and so he rerouted himself somewhere and wound up in Pensacola. But there was no powerhouse job for him in Pensacola. He worked for a plant nursery, for a Mr. Hogeback, they were an old German family that had moved in early—don’t know exactly when. But I know there were at least three Hogeback brothers, and George Hogeback owned the nursery. And my dad worked with him, but the winter after I was born, both my dad and George contracted double pneumonia. My dad and mom didn’t have money for him to go to the hospital, so he stayed at home. George went to the hospital and died of double pneumonia. My dad stayed. Doctor came to our house and told my mom, “Go find at least a quart of moonshine and get some mustard plaster. Put mustard plaster compresses on his chest, and feed him hot toddies.” My dad survived, George died. And then my dad really couldn’t’ get along with the widow so that was short-lived. Did y’all come by the traffic light in Cantonment coming in?

C:   I’m not sure.



S:    Go out for a minute.





	C:	Okay.



	S:	So after George Hogeback died, my dad didn’t get along with the widow and so he had been plowing a field of seedling pecan trees in Cantonment. That is now where the golf course is. That belonged to George Hogeback. He had also bought himself a brand-new 1928 Model A4 Roadster. If you’re not familiar with a Roadster, this is the one with the front seat and the back seat you open up from the top and pull it back and there’s a seat back there. So he stopped for gas a store, my grandfather Braxton, he had a store at cottage hill which is the next village north of Cantonment. So he stopped for gas there one day and the gas pumps in that town were hand-operated. You actually had to pump the gas up top and then as you used out of the top that’s how the store knew how many gallons you got. And so my mom pumped the gas for him, she was there with her father and she was living with them at the time. And she caught his eye. And so then they were married and my older daughter—actually she’s my half-daughter, my mother had been married before—then after I came along as long, as it was just Dot she could sit in the middle up front. But then I come along and now somebody relegated to the—it’s called a rumble seat. And so my mom said, “You’re not putting my kids in the rumble seat. They’re gonna be where I can look at ‘em.” So he had to take his Roadster down to Maulden Motor Company in Pensacola and have them take the Roadster body off and put a four-door sedan body on the Model A. And that Model A, it lasted. It finally got traded off in the [19]40s. It was about twenty years old when it got traded off. But so with that, and him looking for a job too, he had gotten to know another of the Hogeback boys





who was in Cantonment, and this man was really a—well he was Joe Hogeback. And he and his wife had a big family but he leased a fuel filling station from Chevron Oil Company in Pensacola, and on the back of it there was a garage there. And it was a complete garage in those days, he even had a lathe and everything for laying down dry shafts and so forth and so on. There was an alley, and, behind his house he had a sawmill. And in addition to that he also had a shingle mill, making cypress and juniper shingles for houses. I have to backtrack a little bit here and tell you why he had a sawmill. In 1900 there was a big sawmill west of here about five miles on the Perdido River, which is a state line, and they went out of business, I understand, about 1905. But Perdido River, it had several streams that fed into it and they were just loaded with cypress and juniper trees. A lot of those trees got left in the stream or in the river and they just never recovered them. And there was not much automobile traffic in the 1930s. There just wasn’t. Probably the highway was used more for brick trucks from north of here going to the brickyard in Pensacola. More than anything else that’s about all I saw. There was saw out there back when it was a swamp. What they did, they built a skidder. A skidder is used in the woods, it has a cable and an engine on it, you can attach it to a log and through the cable you can draw it up to where you can load it to a truck. And so this was a special skidder, it was on four wheels so they could hook it up behind a truck and take it to the woods because Perdido River swamp was completely full of cypress and juniper trees. That’s called a deadhead, a tree that’s been felled and that’s in the water and has not been recovered. They would haul them up and they stacked them between the house





and the sawmill. Then at times when there’s not much work for the garage, they would crank up the sawmill and saw lumber. And the cypress and the juniper— there was a lot of pine that they brought in too, it was sawed into lumber. But the cypress and juniper, it was reserved and it was used in the shingle mill from when there was another time for them to make shingles. In addition to that Joe Hogeback had a contract with Escambia County School Board to inspect the school buses in the county every month, once a month during the school system. In those days, school buses were a little bit different than they are now. The bus body belonged to the county, but the truck belonged to the driver. And so every year when school was out down at Tate High School, the gymnasium was actually a great big barn with a concrete floor in it. And so Joe had a couple of A- frames that they would set up in there and drive the school bus under there, put hooks under it, and then they would take the bolts out, unbolt it, and drive the truck out from under it and store the bus bodies in that building until time to put them back on. Of course, about July and August it was time to go back and start doing it again. And some of those busses’ bodies had been changed out of so many different trucks, their backboard looked like it had been shot by a machine gun with the extra bolt holes there. But the county owned complete units and we came in—I would suggest—around pretty much close to 1940 because my other brother drove a county bus part-time during the war. In addition to that, my dad picked up a job as a substitute mail carrier. At that time, two routes ran out of Cantonment post office. One of them went north as far as Molino, which is eight miles north, and several other villages that are up there. And the other one went





south and went all the way to Perdido Bay, which is about twenty-five miles. Both of them were about twenty-five miles long. But they were served out of Cantonment post office. And so that was the way both that both the—My dad worked there. By the way, he made a dollar a day. No he didn’t make a dollar a day, he made five dollars a week for a six-day week. You figure it out. [Laughter] And so that was it. This was during the depression and if you haven’t lived through a depression you don’t want to. As for the family, we had moved from this old area, this old house where I was a toddler up north to another rental house. And then from wood from that sawmill, Joe Hogeback and my dad and Joe Hogeback’s brother Harry, they built us a house on Muskogee Road. And it was eighteen feet by eighteen feet, two stories. And of course, there was no electricity in Cantonment at that time. Electricity ended at the intersection of the highway up there. My uncle, the one who had transferred up to Pensacola, I’m pretty sure my uncle bought both of these lots, but they were three-acre lots. So we lived on three acres. There was room there. I know when we had lived over there before I started school, my mom and I would come over there when there was no house there and we had a big garden there. And so I would get to play in the garden while she hoed weeds and what have you, tends the garden. So that’s what we’re talking now about 1935. I was about four years old by the time we got into the two-story house. It had a front porch on the front, on the second floor, but inside the house there was no staircase. There was a ladder in the corner and this one room served as a living room, a dining room, and a kitchen. And on Saturday, it became the bathroom too. That’s where—yes we took a bath





in the washtub. And shortly thereafter when we moved there then my dad added a kitchen and an inside bath on the back of the house. We had to go through the kitchen to get to the bathroom, but hey, it beat going out back where we had for years. We owned two cows at that time, and so—

	V:	Dairy cows?



S:  Dairy cows. They were milked on a regular basis. Behind our lot that lot about about three-hundred feet deep. But behind it was the county convict camp. Do you understand the word convict?

V:   They used convict labor for lumber, right?



	S:	Yeah. Well that was where the county five is now, y’all probably came by it over here coming in. But that’s where the convict camp was and it only had Black prisoners. There, the whole prison. And also one of the things—do you understand the term “hobo?” Do you know what a hobo is?

V:   General understanding, but what is yours?



	S:	Okay during the depression there was a lot of people without work. And so a lot of the men moved from place to place by hopping freight trains. They would ride freight trains. I’m sure you’ve seen movies of that kind of stuff. And so as they traveled and what have you, they overnighted in hobo “jungles” that would be alongside the railroad, places where the train would be slowing up where they could board it—hop on or off. Because they could not go in the yards because the railroad personnel wouldn’t allow it. Also the working crew on the train would throw them off if they caught them on the train. But that’s the way it was. During the day, everywhere they were they would see if they could bum a meal. I know





my mom gave a lot of hobos a couple of biscuits anyhow, for survival. And so that camp was there and there was never a problem with that camp there. And so far as we were concerned, it was literally next-door. My biggest recollection of it was on Saturday when they would all work on Saturday afternoon there was a great big Oak tree there and they built benches all around it and they would sit out there and sing, play musical instruments and what have you. Kind of interesting, it was a different life. To know the history of west Florida, you need to know a little bit about the geography. The Perdido River is not the original western boundary of Florida. The western boundary of Florida used to go to the Mississippi River. 1803, strategic date in American history, the Louisiana Purchase. The French claimed all the way to the Perdido River, but the Louisiana Purchase just included from the Mississippi River west. Minus New Orleans.

Have you read Evangeline? It’s a story by Longfellow of the French people that settled in Nova Scotia, and the British didn’t like that and they loaded them up on ships and sent them out to sea. And that’s how come New Orleans is French, that’s where they landed. So they became part of the French settlement. Really, that was the only settlement that the French ever had. During this period of time that all of that was happening, France and Spain primarily and England, they were making all sorts of decisions in Europe that affected America. Early on, the French had tried to settle west of the Appalachian Mountains by using the Saint Lawrence Valley and Lake Champagne. They were sending in priests to establish a church to try to convert Indians and what have you and also they gave them enough gifts to try to have them to have allegiance to France. So that





was really the biggest amount of settlement that the French ever tried in North America, was there. The remnants of that are found mostly in eastern Canada up around Quebec and Montreal and that area. And in the Sea Islands up there, that’s about all that’s left of that because the settlers—[telephone rings] I thought I turned that off, sorry.

	C:	It’s okay.



	S:	Okay I’m gonna shut this thing off. Now it powered down that time. Are we all— ? C:	We’ll cut it off.

	S:	So that was in 1803, the French Canadians had moved in in New Orleans, landed along the Mississippi Louisiana coast, and so after the Louisiana Purchase, you had this strip of Florida that was still there. During this time Florida was switching between—it belonged to Spain, and for about a twenty-year period it belonged to England, and then the French had a big claim on it through the western part of the United States through settlement of the Mississippi Valley and across the Gulf Coast. In about 1817, 1818 era, Mississippi and Alabama came into the Union. And their biggest problem was, “We don’t have access to the Gulf of Mexico. We’re having trouble and the French are driving us nuts or stealing from us if we try to ship ourselves through New Orleans. So the United States, by then, since they had bought all of French north America except for Canada— actually they were looking for access to the Gulf Coast and that’s why Alabama and Mississippi now have Biloxi, Gulfport, Mobile, in their states. So that’s how that came about. Then in 1819, the United States made a deal with Spain to buy Florida. At that time Florida had two capitals, but the change of power was going





to take place in Pensacola. Andrew Jackson at that time, he was in Florida fighting the Seminoles. I don’t know, it seems like the Europeans that they just kept driving the Seminoles further and further into the swamps in central and south Florida. And so he was coming across so he was tasked with the job of receiving the United States from Spain. And so he arrived but the Spanish governor was not ready to make the transfer. He didn’t have his paperwork or whatever together to make the transfer. So there was a Spanish Rancher, his name was Manuel Gonzalez, who had been given a grant from the Spanish king for land in west Florida. And before that, I got ahead of myself a little bit, during the historic time before all this was happening, the British had owned west Florida for about twenty years. At least, England thought they owned west Florida, and there were some battles fought in Pensacola around that. Also, there’s a big trading post there run by two brothers, the Panton Brothers had a trading post in Pensacola and the highway through here, US 29 is basically overlaid on those Indian trails where they created the lower Creek Indian Nation was up in southern Alabama and eastern Mississippi and so they came to Pensacola, also they came across the Perdido River, there’s a road from here actually all the way to Bay Monette now, but the river is about four and a half miles from where we’re sitting at the present time. So that was pretty well the main route. So Manuel Gonzalez, he had a big ranch and he had all of this land here was divided into—not cow pastures—but cow lots. If you look there are not all that many really large trees that are in this area here, where the papermill is which is literally next door, and east of here where our house was and all, there





were no big trees because they were cow pastures, is what they were. And so Andrew Jackson shows up, the Spanish Governor is not ready to make the transfer of Florida from Spain to the United States and so Colonel Jackson at that time and his wife stayed at the Manuel Gonzalez’s Ranch House with his family. When I was a second-grader my second-grade teacher lived with four other ladies who were all affiliated with Tate School. At that time Tate School went grades one through twelve. Actually I had a class as a senior in the same room I was in the first grade in. And what made this such a good trade route there were really no hills in it so it was easier for Indians to move back and forth. The highest hill between here and Pensacola is about two miles south and you hardly notice it. Getting back to the five ladies that lived in the old Gonzalez ranch house, our second-grade teacher took our class up there and showed us the scuff marks in the hallways made by the spurs on the ranchers and Jackson’s officers were staying there and so eventually the transfer was made. Florida became part of the United States as a territory in 1819 I believe. And going back to another thing I said earlier that you really have to know a little of the geography of Florida to really talk about its history or any part of it. And so there’s a slogan here that was made by one of our mayors a few years back that goes something like this: “Pensacola: The Western Gate to the Sunshine State, Where Thousands Live, Where Millions Wish They Could.” The sky is blue the water is green and the girls are the prettiest you’ve ever seen. We have sugar white beaches here, I don’t know, it’s been chilly since you’ve been here.

[Brief Break till 3]





	S:	Okay, let’s go back on.



	C:	You said that your mom had a garden, may I ask what kinds of food or like where you would get your food and the kinds of foods you ate growing up.

	S:	Vegetable garden. Beans, turnips—I love raw turnips because if I got hungry I could go down to turnip row and pull me up one, brush the dirt off of it and sit down and eat it. But corn, watermelons, cantaloupe, tomatoes, and we also had apple trees. And we provided some pasture for the cows and that was what was on the unused portion of the lot.

	C:	Did you have chores that had to do with the garden and the cows?



	S:	I never did learn to milk. Then also we had a big scuppernong arbor and it was made from railroad crossties upright, and a cross tie across the top. It was well built, dad did a good job on that. And we fenced it in and so the chicken run we had chickens, the chicken run was underneath that scuppernong arbor and so the fertilizer—we had beautiful crops with the scuppernong because it was a way of fertilizing. You had to watch where you stepped when you were picking the fruit. So getting back a little now—

	V:	Can I ask a question too? S:	Yes.

	V:	I was wondering because you were talking about a lot of land here—at least when the Spanish had it—being cow pastures. Were there still cattle coming through here when you were a kid? Because I know Florida was basically like cattle country until the [19]50s.





	S:	You’re right. That’s part of my story. Okay, in 1905 the sawmill shut down in Muskogee. Okay, people that were working there, I don’t know what happened to ‘em. That was a little bit before my time. But there was a pretty good village over there in Muskogee where there was a Presbyterian Church there and a Catholic Church—well, they’re actually chapels, they weren’t very big. So during these years, the people that lived here had to have work. And so the turpentine was a real big thing at the end of wooden ships, have you ever seen how they get the sap from pine trees? They knock the bark off and the outer lining of the tree and make it drip into a pan there. Okay, this was the job that Blacks did. They were called turpentine niggers. Not a good term, but that’s what they were called. They were turpentine niggers. And that was true on up almost until the time the papermill was built. You mentioned cattle a minute ago, there was a rancher named Anderson who had cows running throughout this whole area. They ran— there was no stock law at that time in the state and so his cows ran free and I remember he had a truck with high sides on it and a ramp on the back, and it held three horses and so his cowboys, they went place to place taking care of the cows, checking on the cows, they would go park the truck, they would ride all day, come back, and go in at night. And nobody ever bothered our cows and our cows never really bothered anybody else. Probably the worst damage a cow’s ever done is going up and getting on the highway and getting run over. Because they could ruin the front end of a car. But that began to fade out. Another thing, talking about Florida being cattle country, in the 1930s the federal government decided they were gonna get rid of foot-and-hoof disease in Florida and so they





built dipping baths. They dug ‘em in the ground, put a ramp on each end, and the idea was, you drive your cow in one end, if she goes through, hold her nose up and goes out the other end, and they used this evil-smelling stuff, it’s outlawed now, but a mixture there and so that would kill—the disease was called blight.

Animal insect blight. And so that was that. But there was one thing about it, you had to pay a quarter a cow.

	V:	Oh wow.



	S:	Cow owners did not go for that. Here’s the impression: nobody had any quarters.



And so some of the worst cattle wars ever fought in Florida were fought in Escambia County. Because those taxes didn’t last very long, they got blown to kingdom come.

	V:	Do you remember that happening as a kid?



	S:	Yes. Because I seen that at that time my mother had a wood stove, we burned wood in a heater, so on Sunday afternoons Pop would go up and he would borrow a trailer from Joe Hughsback, the guy he worked for, and we would go to the woods and gather up wood. And get a load of wood and as it run down, we would make another trip. So we got to see quite a bit of there. In the cattle industry, there was a fellow west of here who he fenced in several hundred acres and his name was Beenum. And there was a nice creek that ran into Perdido River—ran through that property—and he allowed us to go through his gate and go down and swim in that creek—I learned to swim in that creek. So yes, cattle was a big industry in Florida.





	V:	One question about that, you mentioned—you said his name was Biggun, Biggum?

	S:	Bingham.



	V:	Bingham. You said he fenced in his land—I think it was like [19]41, [19]42 when they finally put in fencing laws and things like that—

	S:	Stock laws, yeah.



	V:	Did people break down those fences as part of the cattle wars, was that a thing?



	S:	No. I don’t know that anybody ever bothered his fences but as long as he was alive he allowed us to go through there and go through his gate and go down to the creek and go swimming. He built himself a sandstone house built by stones that he had gathered up on that property, which was kind of unique. He was pretty self-sufficient. Golly, we were still goin’ down there when my nieces and nephews were born in the [19]50s and [19]60s. So there was turpentine, tamarack groves growing tung trees have a—it looks like a fruit but it’s not. It’s a hard ball the fruit of the tamarack tree. Of course, as it matures if it’s left on the tree it will burst open and scatter more seeds, you know, propagates. But there were tamarack groves, satsuma groves were good here until one year there was a bad freeze and that killed the satsuma industry, it killed everybody’s trees.

Everybody had a tree in their yard, of course, it ruined the groves and so that ended that. Turpentine was a big thing; it furnished some income for the people working here. In 1940 the papermill was moved here, at that time the United States was not in the war officially but actually we were the lifeline for Britain.

	V:	Lend lease.





	S:	Yeah. Mmhmm. And Britain and then later in the war for Russia as well and so the paper mill, the machinery was moved from Louisiana down here and installed. And most of the people that started the mill up had worked at the papermill in Mobile. They wanted to put the papermill in Pensacola but Pensacola said, “You ain’t putting that stinking thing down here.” So, they wound up getting this property out here. It was financed by a Pace and Allen family from over in Santa Rosa County. Both of these guys have been big time farmers over there and so they had the money to bankroll it. And I’m sure the federal government put in a bunch of bucks too since it helped the war effort. And it was an open mill at that time, it was even fence around it. If I wanted to see my dad, I’d just go to the paper mill and see him. My scout master, he was a machinist.

He was a machinist in wintertime and baseball player in summertime, he belonged to the Brooklyn Dodgers. But if I wanted to go see Red I’d just go to the machine shop and see him and I never bothered anything there. Us kids could go there and nobody ever bothered us and we never bothered anybody else. The café that was there for the employees was built right on the road and so we got introduced to things like hamburgers and things like that that really we had never had access to in Cantonment. I was talking to Josh and his group one night up here and I said, “I ought not to—” I had a check from the Woodsman of the World, they proclaimed me a hometown hero and gave me a hundred-dollar check that I could give to any group I wanted to. And I chose this group to donate my check to. And I told ‘em, I said, “I don’t know whether to give y’all this check or not” and they all got an astonished looks on their faces and they said,





“Why?” And I said, “Because your daddies want all my marbles out there alongside Muskogee Road when we were kids.” And there was a Black man—he was a Black preacher—but Pop would hire him to plow for us. And he did a good job with that. And then in the late [19]40s my dad built a garage for himself and he laid all the concrete blocks and everything—he was tall—he laid all the blocks and everything for that garage, and so he was excellent. About anything he did, he was a good handyman at what he did. I said we moved back into Cantonment probably about 1935. When I started school at Tate I had to ride ragboard—you know what a ragboard is?

	V:	No.



	S:	Well, it had seats on both sides for big kids and they had a plain board going down the middle of both sides in the middle of the bus body and that’s where the little kids—it was padded, kind of—but that’s where the little kids had to ride. You just road there and held on best you could. There was a couple of high school kids that lived north of here they got to looking out for me when I was a little kid on the bus. I’d sit on the ragboard right by their seat, they kept me out of trouble. During that time Tate was a twelve-year school, now its just a high school but it was a twelve-year school, as I mentioned earlier, but as the school buses got to the schoolyard there would be a big scrub softball game going on. Anybody could play. All you’d do is you would get off the bus, you would go out there and you would say, “Who was last man?” But some people called it smooth-up. The way it works is every time a batter gets out he goes to the field as last man and everybody else moves up positions so that you keep rotating batters and





everything. And the big guys, they like for us little kids to be batters because they had fun chasing us around the base. But you’d just run out there and holler, “Who was last man?” Somebody would say, “Mickie!” So then you knew who you were making the circuit behind. But the big guys would put the little kids up.

	C:	Were there lots of children when you were a kid, around Cantonment?



	S:	Well, it was a twelve-grade school so most of my class—we probably had not thirty—what’s thirty times twelve?

	C:	Three hundred sixty.



	S:	So that was about the amount of school. And it was called Tate Agricultural School then. The name Tate came from a man named James M. Tate who was in the Alabama Infantry in the Civil War and he was from up in Alabama and after the war he came down to this area here and he became a lawyer, he became a teacher, he also on Sunday he’d be a preacher and he founded Tate School in another location down in Gonzalez and until the early 1900s and then it was—the brick building was moved across and—it still was all twelve grades—they’d go to a junior high in the late [19]40s and the junior high moved out and then the [19]60s of course was Civil Rights. They built an elementary school up here in Cantonment and it’s still operating now, and so they moved the little kids out. I guess that was a little before that that they moved the little kids out because like I said, I had a class when I was a senior in the same room I was in the first grade in. That’s the way that worked. The paper mill brought some other things, my dad, of course, he saw an opportunity, he was a qualified powerhouse operator and so he hired in to work in a powerhouse. But the powerhouse wasn’t finished





yet. Another guy had an idea. You’d take a Ford tractor and you’d build a frame around it, and you would mount two saws on it and one of them was a cut-off saw and the other one—You would attach a long conveyor behind it and you would take it to the woods. And this was some good—pine diggers had jobs.

Because they went to the woods and sawed the pine trees and when they would spot these rigs in the woods—This was getting to be during the war and the paper? rangers would get trucks and tractors. During the war. And so my dad wanted to wait to be a firehouse operator. He didn’t have nothing to do so he tagged into this guy and helped put these things together. And then after they were together, well, he became the maintenance man for them because he was the only one that—besides the guy that built them—he was the only guy that knew what was happening with them. But they would take these extra tractors and use them for—rather than, you’ve seen movies where you’ve had horses dragging timbers, well they had tractors that did the same thing. They would drag them up, run them up the conveyor using the power take-off, saw it off, cut wood lengths, so you had to legally put it on the truck, and it fell off then onto another conveyor that they had stilts on that it would raise up they could bury it as they’re loading their truck then. They would go up that conveyor and they would drop the cut wood off right on the truck. Pretty unique. And they built some shacks, they had shacks I think—I believe they were about ten feet wide and about eighteen feet long. And they had a couple of leaves spotted there, and the guys that worked in the woods stayed there all the time. That’s where they slept and they had crude kitchen facilities as well. And my dad, he was the maintenance man





for them, he made his rounds. Later, they found because they could only get trucks—pulpwood trucks take a beating. And so somebody had to work on ‘em. And so they asked my dad, “How about designing us a shop?” And so they built a shop there to his specifications. He became the lead man in the shop and he stayed there—it got to be a problem after the war in that during the war people that were drafted into the military for the war, after the war when they were discharged they had re-employment rights. And they had a young fellow there, he had a college degree, my dad had eighth grade, so they didn’t have any place to put him so they put him in charge of the garage. And it didn’t take too long before my dad’s career at the paper mill ended. He got mad one day and put his tool box on his shoulder, called me at home and said, “Come get me.” By the way, during the [19]30s there was three telephones in Cantonment, that was during the [19]30s.

	C:	Three telephones.



	S:	Three telephones. One ring-a-dingy two ring-a-dingy, three ring-a-dingy, that’s actually the way it was done. And there was a party line. If you heard somebody else’s phone number ring, because that’s the way you received the call, you had one ring, two rings, or three rings or whatever what your ring was. Your telephone was a wooden box hanging on the wall and you could pick up the receiver and hear their conversation because it was all a party line if you cared to.

	C:	So, you went through the Tate School and you graduated?





	S:	Yes. I went there all twelve years at Tate School. We had some unique things there. Eight grade, boys were required to take agriculture. And girls were required to take home economics in the eighth grade. That was a requirement there. During the war they built a canning plant there. They equipped it with big pressure cookers and what have you and sinks and what have you. If you were making produce, you could go there and can your own produce for use for resale or for the winter for yourself because things got short during the war rubber was rationed, sugar was rationed, gas was rationed, shoes were rationed—those were the big items right there, and another two or three little things I don’t recall.

	C:	Did your family can?



	S:	My mother had her own pressure cookers so she pressure cooked at home. But then in 1940 they had a sewing room up about eight miles up here, and so my mom and pop bought a second car and she used it and she transported a car full of women up there to the sewing room and they were making all sorts of little bags and what have you for the Armed Forces in 1940. Most of them were going to Britian. And so she did that, and then the war started and then there was nobody to drive school buses and women started driving—I believe I was in the fifth or sixth grade—let’s see, I started school in [19[37, I skipped the third grade so five years later, [19]42 or so, well she had a school bus route. The choice seat was the right-hand side front seat, because if you sat in that seat, when you come to a railroad crossing you got to get out and run up there and see if there was a train coming. [Laughter] Bus would pull up, you’d hop back on. So that was





kind of a fun thing. Since I got on the bus at the house, I always got the right front seat.

	C:	Did your family have an expectation to whether you were going to continue your education or what you should do?

	S:	My parents promised us kids, they guaranteed us a high school education. And really that was it. Pensacola—I guess Pensacola Junior College started in the very late [19]40s—probably [19]48 or [19]49—I don’t remember. I graduated from high school in June and I enlisted in the Army in August. And I spent the next three years in Europe. And I came home, and it was right after I got home is when I went over to Tallahassee. And I was over there three and a half years, I got some military credits and went to summer school one year so I could graduate a semester early. And my degree is in physical education, and I came back and I had interned at a middle school—they call them junior high, seven, eight, nine—in Pensacola, where my high school football coach was the principal. I interned at that school, and so one of the coaches was leaving so he offered me the job. So, I stayed there one year. But this would have been [19]54- [19]55 school year, but hey I couldn’t make a living doing it. My pay—ten-month contract—was twenty-nine hundred dollars and I got four hundred dollars coaching supplement. Because I got there at six o’clock and left at dark just about. That’s the way it went. We had junior high school athletics, full athletic programs for the kids—baseball, softball, basketball, football—so we had a pretty full year to do that. But then at that time they had built a Chemstrand Corporation had built this nylon plant over on Escambia River, that’s our other river. And the





geography of the county, there’s probably ten miles between the Perdido River this way and the Escambia River that way. And they built this three miles from my parent’s house. So the governor of Florida at that time, the Florida Education Association Teacher’s Association had petitioned the legislature for a thousand dollar across-the-year raise. My paycheck was—like I said, it was twenty-nine hundred dollars for the year. And so that was ten months, so I got two hundred and ninty dollars a month. And I had my degree. And so, I went out to the employment office—they were still building the plant then—and guess what? A guy I went to high school with was the employment supervisor. So, I walked down, I said, “Ben, I need a job!” And I said, “I’d like to fill out an application.” He said “Fine.” And so there was a bunch of forms there, he said, “You don’t want that one, you want this one, “and it was a salaried job, foreman’s job. So, I filled it out. So, the last two weeks of my year at my school year I got paid by the school board and I got payed at the nylon plant. Then the plant was called Chemstrand, do y’all have any knowledge of that at all?

	V:	I was about to ask, if it’s nylon was it owned by Dupont? Did Dupont – S:	Let me answer that question.

	V:	Okay, here we go.



	S:	In 1937 Dupont, a scientist, discovered nylon. The first nylon every made was extruded through a hypodermic needle. Basically, a nylon in itself is a combination that you take—they make esthipic acid, and then you take part of the esthipic acid and retreat it and make it a base. And when you combine this base with the acid, it forms nylon salt. And so then you have to cook this salt and





extrude it and it comes out pretty much crystal clear. And you have to extrude it under pressure. But so much for that—we’ll be here the rest of the day if we went through that crap. Take out that word. [Laughter] But so I went to work at Chemstrand as a foreman, I worked there twenty-five and a half years.

Meanwhile, I re-enlisted—I always liked the military anyway so I enlisted in the Florida National Guard and I spent thirty years in the Florida National Guard. But that was Chemstrand and the company was formed because the federal government sued Dupont for violation of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act.

	V:	There it is.



	S:	There it is.



	V:	So that’s how Chemstrand was able to start producing—



	S:	So Chemstrand was formed by Monsanto Chemical Company who primarily at that time was supplying various chemicals to various industries—I know Proctor and Gamble was a big customer and what have you. And American Visco was an old rayon manufacturer and the reason for that combination was Mont Santo—for the engineering part of it—and American Visco for its knowledge of yarns and final product and processing in the plant. And so they teamed up and they called it Chemstrand. At that time when it was formed, people in Wall Street said the company would not survive ten years and that was because of its liberal personnel policies. Every time the paper mill got a raise, our people got a raise one cent higher. We were non-union, the unions tried to organize at one time, that was the year before I went out there when I went back out there. And they failed in their organization and they were [inaudible] one thing and we worked on





‘em the whole time I was there to keep the plant non-union and it was, it still was then. That plant’s been sold two or three times since I left. Monsanto went back to making Agent Orange which really hurt a lot of guys, including one of my nephews, in Vietnam. Also was something else they make for poisoning weeds with?

	V:	Glycolates, right?



	S:	Round-Up. It’s called Round-Up, it’s bad stuff, really is. But now that plant they’ve added different things to it out there because the chemical end of the nylon industry, you’ve got capacity there to keep—man you’d have to have a gigantic yarn plant if they were a full capacity. And so there was a lot of spin offs out there now. It’s called Ascend now, it’s changed hands, I think they’re the third people that have owned it. I have no idea what they do, I’ve been out there twice since I’ve retired. One time I was looking for something, the other time I was looking for somebody, and I never found either one so I never went back. Let’s see, the [19]40s is what we’re talking about, have y’all talked to anybody about the [19]40s?

	V:	This is our first time in Cantonment.



	S:	Okay. In 1940, of course, the paper mill was up and running. They had once machine running, and they were putting in a second machine at that time when the war started, when we actually got in the war. The day of Pearl Harbor I was playing with some of my neighbors, boys, we were playing football when we got the news. And nobody knew where Pearl Harbor was and I didn’t hardly know where Hawaii was. That was—I guess—1941. I was ten years old. But things





happened, cars, the top half of your headlights had to be painted black. We had air raid wardens; air raid wardens had messengers. My dad was an air raid warden, and I was a messenger. And they would have practice black out and so we would station up there right at the red light at the intersection with US-29, every time a car come by we would have to warn them about their lights and if they still had their headlights on or something like that, “Hey, we got a black out going,” and everybody would cover up their windows and everything like that—it was dark. Since I knew the way, the office there, the center was over here at the paper mill in that office. And I guess since I was the one that knew had to get there, me and my bicycle, we could do the midnight ride without getting hurt. And so I reported—the air raid warden would send a report in on what was happening in houses or the surrounding area and traffic on the highway and what have you. But as far inland as we were, it didn’t make much difference anyway. I would like to go back a little bit and mentioned Pensacola. There are several ports on the Gulf of Mexico, Pensacola has the best natural fort on the entire Gulf of Mexico. Mobile—well, start with New Orleans. It’s one hundred and ten miles from the dock to the open gulf. And mobile is twenty-three miles. You can walk across half of Mobile Bay and never get above your knees. Pensacola’s a deep-water port.

Panama City is too shallow, they can’t get any big ships in Panama City and probably the next one down the line is Tampa. And it’s—what—twenty-something miles from the open gulf to the docks in Tampa? And although they do a pretty good bit—really that’s the ports on the Gulf of Mexico. Galveston, they’ve developed it a lot since the war but they weren’t all that big back during the war.





But it’s five miles from the open gulf to the docks in Pensacola. In 1947 I believe it was John L. Lewis, he was president of the coal miners and he called a nationwide strike—coal miners, we’d have one hundred and fourteen ships in Pensacola Bay waiting on coal. That lasted a couple months, a long time. The only bad thing about that was a freak storm hit one night and two of the ships drew up their anchors and knocked the Bay Bridge down. Knocked two thousand feet of the Bay Bridge down.

	V:	Wow.



	S:	Other things that happened during the [19]40s, we got us a Scout Troop going. So our big thing was we were collecting used paper, grease, and scrap metal. And so we had—And I had always gotten along with our Black section, I never had a problem with Black people. The only time I ever got in trouble with Black people was if they saw me doing something I was not supposed to be doing and they tell my mom and pa. [Laughter] That’d get me in a little trouble. But during the war my mom, she drove a school bus for a year and then at the commissary store, the paper mill commissary store, you heard the song, “Sold my soul to the company store?”

	V:	Yeah.



	S:	That’s true. Every Black in this place here owed the company store. The fellow that managed it, he was a crook. He’d let them charge the account and he’d charge them interest on what they owed him. Anyway, my mom worked as a clerk, as a store clerk and then as a cashier and then as a butcher. The butcher left and so then she became the butcher. Pretty good worker. She was a tough





gal. Okay so she wasn’t at home any of the time and so she hired a Black lady named Daisy Black by the way who was cousins of the [inaudible] people down here. And so one of my jobs got to be—Hey, you’ve heard of Driving Mrs. Daisy?

	V:	Driving Mrs. Daisy?



	S:	Yeah. It was a movie with—what’s that Black guy? Anyway, it’s about a Black chauffer and his job was driving Mrs. Daisy anywhere she wanted to go. Kind of a cute story really. But one of my jobs was driving Mrs. Daisy home every afternoon. My mama said she’s been working all day and she deserves a ride home, so my job was driving Mrs. Daisy. So I did it in reserve. Of course, I knew most of the people that lived down there, played marbles with ‘em. There went all my marbles, but I knew most of them. Ironically enough though, we had a great scout troop, but we did not have any Blacks in it. We never asked ‘em. And now scouting’s about gone.

	C:	So as a child were you aware of segregation or did you notice?



	S:	Yeah, I was aware of it but I never knew it. It never came up. My nickname was the only thing that ever happened to me that involved—When the Black preacher was building my dad’s shop, I mixed mortar and toted blocks for him to lay. That was my job on that shop. I could go up a ladder to the second story with a thirty- five-pound block in each hand, up the ladder without hands. That was of course, I mixed all the mortar too. That was a pretty heavy job.

	V:	And there was also, you mentioned that there was a Black convict labor camp— or convict camp, I don’t know if it was convict labor—





	S:	Yeah, they moved it from where it was up in Cantonment and it’s right over here now. Well, they have a big operation going there now, much bigger than what it— it never would have been able to stay where it was because they wouldn’t even have enough land. But after so there’s been a transition in the area, the one thing I’m seeing most now that’s a problem in Cantonment. I see the White neighborhood, it’s in ruins. Either people got so old they retired and they’re still living there best they can on whatever the pension is, or they moved out and sold the house or the house is vacant, and they’ll see a real opportunity to get with this group over here and see if we can’t unify the neighborhoods. And in some way, my church is down in Gonzalez, I go to Gonzalez Methodist, but Jim Allen was the first president of the paper mill, Jim Allen Methodist Church is over here in the Village and, I mean, the cornerstone of it. So I kind of had an in going to, if I want to get up here—most Methodist churches have a Methodist Men’s Group so I was thinking that maybe what I might do is start off with me going to Methodist Men’s Group and see if they would be interested in doing anything to help the neighborhood over there. If nothing else, clean it up. And then get with the group over here to get some help because their church is very small, and it’s got very small help now. People have moved away, died… I live a mile south of here, about down—my parents moved from up here on Muskogee Road down there when I was a junior in high school. Had an opportunity—that land was too expensive to live on. My dad sold our front yard for a hundred dollars an acre, which was a good price in them days. But not a hundred dollars an acre not a hundred dollars a foot. I know every time I go to the barber shop I get my hair cut





in a place that’s built on top of one of my World War II forts where I was fighting the Japanese and the Germans. We did a lot of that and that was Gene Roger’s heyday and what have you too as well. Let’s see, I’ve done a lot of rambling around, I didn’t mean to get so rambled around.

	V:	That’s alright, you were talking about your time as a kid in the [19]40s, growing up around the time of the war. I worked out a couple questions while you were talking. You mentioned Pearl Harbor, I want to know, did your family have a radio? Like were you able to hear FDR, because I know he had his fireside chats they broadcasted—

	S:	The radios initially we didn’t—I remember I believe this was in 1939 when Joe Lewis and Billy Khan—I think they had three fights. And this was the rougher fight, the third one. Each one of them had won one, and I remember about fifteen people all around our car standing there listening to the fight over the radio. The first time I ever saw a TV in my life was at Fort Dix, New Jersey, when I was in the Army. But yeah, radios initially a lot of them were battery-powered. And you didn’t turn it on except for Saturday nights to turn on Grand Ole Opry and a few other select things. We got power probably a year after we moved into this house, we got built for—We had a couple of adventures there. I thought I mentioned earlier I started driving when I was pretty small, and I decided to bag mama’s car out of the garage one day and it didn’t stop in time and I knocked the bottom out from under the chimney. Fortunately, the whole damn thing didn’t fall on my head but that worked. I got out of that a lot better than I thought I was going to. I thought I was buying the barn that day.





	V:	The other question I had written down—because you talked about the scouts and things like that—do you remember, did they have any Civilian Conservation Corps camps around here where they built state parks and things?

	S:	Not CCC. I know some of my neighbors, they had a big family actually and I didn’t know exactly how that family was hooked up, but it was really two families and both of them had several kids. But the dad and the family, he was a section foreman on the first coal railroad. The railroads used to be divided into sections and the company would hire a person—the “section foreman” he was called— and he had a motorcar that he could run on the rails and it would ride him and four workers. And their job was to maintain that section of track. And we had two railroads running at that time, the first coal railroad got bought out by Northwestern and they closed this line down because it wasn’t too profitable. All of the tracks still come out here and they have a short line—somebody’s got a short line running from downtown to down here. The other one was put in by L&N and it was put in about 1850 I believe, and it belongs to CSX now, it’s part of their system. There’s never been a railroad put up between here and Mobile, Alabama. Straight line. It’s about fifty-one miles to Mobile, too many hills and rivers to cross to get to Mobile. So trains that go west here, they have to go about thirty-five miles north of here to where there’s a yard up in Flomaton, Alabama.

And they can be switched over to the lines that go to the west and also that goes to the north. Speaking of geography of Florida, there’s a swamp that they call a bay, San Pedro Bay is what it’s called, but it runs from the gulf just southwest of Perry up right past Perry and it goes north and actually goes—this one swamp





goes almost to the Georgia border. And it effectively, I’m sure, used to cut off a lot of traffic back and forth between the extreme west Florida and the rest of the state or—at that time—the territory. During the Civil War, or do you want to go into that?

	V:	It doesn’t matter whether you talk about it or not. You’re talking about your interest in Florida geography and how it relates—

	S:	And that got real interesting to me because the last years I was in Florida Guard I was the communications chief for the signal brigade and one of the things they were wanting to do—they didn’t have the towers up on the interstates now, and they wanted to be able to put the Adjutant General—as in Saint Augustine in an old British or Spanish—combination of Spanish, British depending on who it belonged to at the time—that’s where his office is and the governor’s office is in Tallahassee of course. And so, they wanted to be able in times of emergency to be able to communicate with one another and so one of the things I had to do was lay out a route that we could put in a complete system between Tallahassee and Pensacola, that was a good training route for us, and so I have driven all over west north Florida many times. I went through that swamp one time, I needed a relay, there’s not any way. From level to six inches below ground, I’m driving the Jeep, if I’d have had a better truck I’d have never got out. It was really amazing to me, I didn’t have any idea it was there. Got familiar with a lot of fire tower operators, they let us hang an antennae from mass on them, they were pretty good. But during the Civil War the food was scarce in the South, it was almost unthinkable, especially after Sherman’s March to the Sea and things like





that. The plantations didn't work very good anymore because most of the supervision and everything was gone off in the Army and so quite frankly Blacks had to run it the best they could, but there really wasn't enough food to go around especially in to try to supply that—every time an Army unit come through they were foraging. They would get some people off cattle, chickens, stored things like potatoes and things like that. And they would take them, and they’d give them a chip for it. “Hey, good luck.” But down in Florida a bunch of guys were—they were raiding, going into bushes and getting these old redneck cattle out—by the way, do you know what a redneck is?

	C:	I’ve heard the term; how would you describe it? V:	Yeah.

	S:	A redneck—and the reason we’re called rednecks is this, it’s because—and people in the city came up with the name—it’s because here in the South or most of it, all I know is the South I was raised in, it’s because being exposed to the sun and out in some of the environment that we were in, the backs of our necks get red. And so those in the cities call us rednecks—they call us a lot of other names too, but that’s what a redneck is. But so these cowboys, they go down, they round up herds, and as they—a railroad term, eight miles west of Jacksonville, I forget the little old village it’s in, but it changed hands about, I don’t know how many times during the Civil War. Because they would drive cattle up, all the way up to there with the idea in mind of putting them on rail cars and shipping them somewhere else in the Confederacy to feed not only the army but the population too. I think that yard down there, it must have changed hands a dozen times





during the Civil War. When you got a herd up close, you sent somebody up ahead to see who was in charge. See if whether the Federals had it or whether the Confederates had it. Pretty interesting.

	V:	Speaking more about the cattlemen, I’m curious because I haven’t really spoken to many people in the western Panhandle, did cattlemen also like self-identify with cracker culture and things like that?

	S:	Yeah. You know what a cracker is? V:	Yeah, yeah, a cattleman.

	S:	Yeah, okay and that term comes from down in central Florida in the palmettos and all that, you could not use a lasso. You try to throw a lasso, it’d get hung on something before it got to the cow. And so they used fifteen-foot-long bullwhips. But then it had a cracker on the end of it. And you’d pop that cracker right behind the cow’s head or nick him on the butt with it, and then you’d get him to move.

And they’d run ‘em out of these palmetto stands and stuff like that. And so that’s what a Florida cracker is, it has nothing to do with eating or anything else, but they have their name for it. I remember reading somewhere in the early years that Florida had more cattle than Texas did.

	V:	Yeah. Alright. How long have we been talking? C:	Well this is the fourth audio recording—

	S:	An hour and forty-five minutes. V:	Alright—

	C:	There is one—



	V:	Did you have questions?





	C:	Yeah. Just a couple more if you don’t mind? S:	No, not at all.

	C:	I was curious about your experiences with the Civil Rights movement or during that time, during the [19]50s and [19]60s, what you remember happening in Cantonment?

	S:	It didn’t affect me too much except I have gained a lot of respect for a lot of Black people that I knew, if you will, casually. Because it’s given me a better relationship with them. I had an operator working for me out at the plant, and he was—man, I’d stake my life on him. And he was one of the best operators I ever had. Strangely enough, when he first transferred into my section—it was Christmas time—everybody shunned him. Everybody else was White but him.

But it got Christmas time and so most of the crews were having everybody bring in something for kind of a get-together dinner for Christmas. He brought in baked quail. Rufus was part of the group from that day forward. His breaks were warm because everybody around him loved him and the way he baked them here from up in Atmore. And one of the things that happened out there when the plant first opened—okay, it was the Civil Rights movement you asked me—Okay, when the plant first opened Blacks were not offered operating jobs. They were cooks in the cafeteria, they were truck drivers, and that was about it—and some labor jobs— but that was it. That’s all that was available to them. After the Civil Rights movement—of course they started moving around—and I remember one of the cooks became a night supervisor for the whole damn plant. And he cooked the year. And I had a young fellow who had finished the instrument course at





Pensacola Junior College, straight A student, and he worked for me at the lowest pay level we had in the plant, called it Group 2. And so Civil Rights, the company had a thing called a prior request. A prior request, if you were qualified, you could apply for other jobs in the plant with more stringent educational requirements.

Mostly high school education was one big limiting factor for a lot of people in the [19]40s. Because a lot of people came out of service and there wasn’t back to school or anything. But I really felt good about it, I encouraged him to apply and he got a job as an instrument mechanic, went from a Group 2 to a Group 9 just like that. And I was so proud of that. He’s a good boy, young man, I was so proud of him for that. But the Civil Rights movement to me personally, all it did was I met a lot of people I should have met a long time ago. But I can always remember Rufus McCullen I always remember that kid I sent to instruments.

And I see people around from time to time that—I had one guy that worked for me for a while and he to this day, if he sees me, he walks up to me and say, “What’s my clock number O?” And I say, “7799.” I don’t know why I remember his clock number, but I signed his time card for a couple of years every week. But really it was met with some resistance in the workplace. There was resistance because like the fellows that I mentioned just now, like a guy going from a cook to the night superintendent for the whole plant? Two of four of our night superintendents were Black. It was a mess here. Probably it was harder on kids than it was anybody else. My littlest daughter is a blonde. And she went to middle school about two blocks from here, and she caught hell her first whole year there.





	C:	With the integration process? With the desegregation—was her school being desegregated?

	S:	Yeah.



	V:	I was actually curious, so did they integrate the Black schools or did they— because I know it was different for all parts of the state?

	S:	They did both. This was at the time when I went to the middle school concept because it made a better breaking point, really. First five grades in elementary school, six, seven, and eight in middle school and then high school. This school here, it was a Black high school. Before they made this a Black high school it was only an elementary school. If a Black kid got out of elementary school, there was no where to go to school. He either had to go to Pensacola to Catholic High or to Saint Joseph, which was the Catholic Church down there, we had a small church. Or go all the way to the state line up there where there was a Black high school, which is some thirty-five miles. But hey, we’re talking about turpentine niggers that have to walk to work every day. They didn’t have any way to get there. And so they’re hung up. But with integration they started to get enough buildings because they were putting in a whole entire set of schools. There were no junior highs really. There were some junior highs but not very many and they weren’t segregated either. I was at a junior high the year that I taught so when they did that, well then this really was something. I know I had to get on—my wife was a Cub Scout den mother, and I had to get on those boys sometimes for talking the way they did. Because they were at the tail-end of parents, they heard it at home, so they didn’t think anything about it until they got up to integrating. I





believe they started integrating at the middle school level which moved a lot of kids. Like ninth graders who had been going to junior high or either a high school—so the middle school was where the big initial change was made.

	V:	Do you remember what year this was too? Because I know a lot of this didn’t happen in Florida until after—

	S:	Primarily the first half of the [19]60s. V:	Okay.

	S:	[19]64, [19]65, long in there. Let’s see, let me figure out—Suzie would have been, she was born in [19]56, [19]66 she would have been ten years old. So late [19]60s. That’s how long it took. You know a lot of the integration laws had been passed in the first half of the [19]60s but it took them that long to get down here.

	C:	Do you know if parents would pull their kids? Were you aware if parents would pull their kids out of schools because they weren’t supportive of desegregation?

	S:	You’re saying did that happen?



	C:	Mm-hm. Or did you know of families that--



	S:	Well there’s a law in the state of Florida, you have to go to school until you’re sixteen years old. Somewhere.

	C:	Right, I just know that there were other parts of the south where instead of desegregating schools they would just set up new schools or like private schools.

	S:	That happened too but not nearly enough of them. And most of the time the big thing in the South was the private schools were all White. They were built that way. Alabama’s probably the worst state in the Union of high schools for





segregated—they’re still segregated. For whatever reason they don’t accept Black students.

	C:	So in Cantonment, what things have you seen change and what’s things that you’d still like to see change here?

	S:	Well, the biggest thing that’s happened is is the older generation has mostly died.



But I still see—and I see this—is I can drive Muskogee Road and I still know exactly when I cross over from White to Black. And I know how far down where White picks up again, which is about two miles down there. And that’s something that, like—They have a paved street over here. I can take you over there and you’ll be down to your hub caps driving on some of the trails and what have you they have over there, and the county’s not doing anything about it. That’s one of the things I hope that we can make happen with this group right here and especially if we can get it integrated. He was telling me the other day that there’s another church that has expressed interest in coming up and helping out. It’s a Presbyterian Church. I have to tell you this, I go to Gonzalez Methodist. Our first Black person joined the church a month ago. And bless her heart, she is a joy.

Her husband’s Air Force. Also, she’s telling me that he has experience in writing. Writing requests for loans and what have you and for—what do you call it when somebody gives them out money?

	V:	A grant?



S:   Yeah, a grant. He did a lot of grant writing for neighborhoods when he was in the Air Force. He’s a pretty sharp guy [inaudible]. But strangely enough Grace was— she had just come looking for a church and so she came. The first time she came





was a Wednesday night. And my wife and I go to a class on Wednesday night and so she was just hunting and so Lois saw her in the hall. Said, “Can I help you?” And so—my wife has early Alzheimer’s—and so she’s a friend to everybody now. Doesn’t matter. So she said to Grace, she says, “Can I help you.” And she said, “Oh, I’m looking for a class.” She said, “You belong to us, come with me.” She thinks the sun rises at six and she’s a real go-getter, she joined the choir. Lady can sing. And she’s very open with herself. Well, she’s been an Air Force wife for twenty years. Oh and since she was in the Wednesday night class now she’s in our Sunday school class as well. And she’s very local. She doesn’t let anything go. I think it’s one of the best things to happen to that church in a while, except we’re going—the Methodist religion is going through a gigantic split now over gay rights and things of that sort. Biracial marriage—not too much biracial marriage but homosexual marriages. And things of that sort. But maybe we’re gonna make it one of these days. But I grew up here in a segregated place but it never bothered me. It never bothered me. I had friends. When the Black church would have a tent revival—a group would come in, they’d put up a tent, have church in it, it would last about a week or so. A couple of us boys, we’d go down and go around to the back of the tent and lift up the flap and sit down. They would give us two blocks of wood to keep time with while we were singing because a lot of singing goes on in a revival. So instead of clapping we were keeping time with two blocks of wood. It was a lot of fun, it sure didn’t hurt us. But nobody ever said a word about it to us, they just handed us two blocks of wood. When it was over we’d just slip out underneath the tent,





come on and go back to the house. I never had a problem with a Black person in Cantonment.

	C:	We’ve kept you a very long time and we appreciate you sharing your stories. Do you have any final questions or?

	V:	Yeah if there’s anything that we haven’t gone over that you had intended to talk about but we might have not—

	S:	Well one of the things I thought I was going to do maybe is try to talk about coming up from the time of the sawmill—which was a major operation in the 1900s through the Depression days and of course, since that paper mill has been here, I still don’t think the county does near enough around here. They’re trying, businesses are moving out here. Some now but if I wanted to take you to lunch there’s not a decent place for me to take you to lunch. I think if we don’t do something, somebody else is gonna do it and we’re gonna have to deal with it. In 1948—come on in out of the rain! [Brief break]

	V:	We were just kind of concluding. You were talking about the things that you wish that the county would be doing in the area.

	S:	Yeah they really have to. I think that the only way—we have a young county commissioner who happens to go to my church, and he’s gonna have to get off his butt and get on it, that’s all there is to it. None of them are ever gonna do it by bilateral pressure, because they’ll keeping putting him off too long. You know, promises, promises, and nothing ever happens. And the problem is they’re trying to do so many things down in Pensacola now they’re falling over themselves.

Latest announcement concerning Cantonment is our fire station in Cantonment is





gonna be cut a fireman on every shift. Going from four firefighters on the truck to three firefighters on the truck. I worked for Red Cross for ten years in disaster assistance. That’s gigantic. They’re going to do it at five stations and one of them is ours.

	V:	Wow.



	S:	And the next station down the highway is one of them too. I think this group here has—I tell you, there are not ten people in Cantonment that know any of them. In the White end of Cantonment, knows they exist. But there’s a few. Darn it but probably—the guy that—we have a mutual friend that’s on the board of Escambia County Utilities Association. He’s the guy that invited us to the prayer breakfast. I had something happen I’m really having a problem with. I paid for three tables at the prayer breakfast this year and I gave one of them to this group and they didn’t show up.

	V:	So there’s gotta be a lot more action?



	S:	You know, it’s hard to help people that won’t help themselves. Every politician in the whole damn county was there, every one! A lot of handshaking going on.

You’re just letting them know that “Hey, we’re out from out in Cantonment.” And that table was right next to the table I was sitting at. Man, I shook my head all morning long. And oh man. Well our friend had already given him a seat at his table, so he wasn’t supposed to sit at that table anyway. There was gonna be something like four hundred and fifty tables, eight people, that’s big. But man, just the one chance in the whole year to do that and they blew it. I don’t know whether I’m gonna pay for another table or not gonna. So I’m still thinking about





it, we got to talk with Josh about it. Maybe we can make it work again. Think on the way, you get a choice to pay for next years’ tables before you leave this year. If not, you wind up in the cheap seats. And this was a prime table, I paid for it last year. Breakfast. You know the only reason I’m telling you guys that is it’s something I know, not something I did. I did it because I wanted to. But Josh, I thought Josh was gonna cry. That’s him. That’s Josh, I thought he was gonna cry. I wanted to cry. That’s something I think the big problem is with Black people, particularly in the South. They don’t see opportunities when they occur.

Now Grace, the lady that’s been going to our church? She’s been out and around enough and seems to me like a lot of these folks have been out and around enough. That lady that had that book that she said she published? I asked her if I could copy it, and she said no. It’s copyrighted. But she’s gonna get some stuff out of it to make me some copies of what I want out of it. Which was pretty much history. It’s touch and go right now to really—but Josh has done more in the last two or three years than anyone else has and he continues to be the driving force. This is his baby. And he just, he’s gonna make it work one way or the other. But I don’t think it’s ever gonna work as long as it has to be, “Hey if they got anything done over here I’d be more ashamed of that White village up here than I am now.” I can’t believe when I drive through that thing that the complete disrepair and everything that you see up there. Hey, I was here when those houses were built. Used to, when the paper mill was first put up, all those houses were painted white on the outside. They have a—it’ called a digester. What it is is a big chemical vat where they heat chemicals and what they do is they take the wood





chips and run it through, put them and soften them up. They get ‘em soft and then what the digester does—it holds liquid that they put the wood though that takes the resin out of the wood, if you will. Because most paper mills use pine. So you’ve got this great big tank up on top of the mill. What they’re supposed to do is recirculate that stuff back to the digester, that’s what it’s called. A graveyard operator goes to sleep and so it goes over pressure and [sound effect]. It paints every house in that village brown. Takes about a month of rain to wash that junk off. They put in a car wash over there in the parking lot of the paper mill. You can drive through over there, it’s a drive-through thing. Because people were griping. You used to couldn’t keep a muffler up on a car around here because the paper mill. And the paper mill’s really having a problem because they dumped a lot of their chemicals into a creek that flows into Perdido Bay. Perdido Bay is on the west side of Pensacola, Escambia Bay is on the east side of Pensacola. And I talked earlier about the port in Pensacola, when World War II started Pensacola Bay would have held every ship and every navy in the world.

	V:	Wow.



	S:	It’s about five miles across—the bay itself at the narrowest point is about four miles. I know how far it is, I walked it one night. Couldn’t get a ride but that was a pretty little old girl. I was working over at the scout camp quarters as a—talk about there in Pace, I have some pictures from the [19]40s, you know where Gulf Breeze is? It’s a town that’s just across the bay. Okay. Well just down from there, there is a live oak reservation. It was planted by the Navy way back a long time ago to get oak to repair sailing ships with. Masts and what have you. And so a





scout camp was there in the 1940s and I worked on the staff over there three or four years. We had scout camp and this was over—the camp is vacant. It’s time now for Black scout camp. They can’t go over there.

V:   Because the camp was segregated?



	S:	It was White. So what did they do? So this was on Santa Rosa Sound side, I was a waterfront director there for a couple years. And you could probably wade out five hundred feet but then it got deep, Santa Rosa Sound did, it got deeper. We used to make boys swim from the bridge back to the dock for scout life guard, quarter mile. But so what they did is they went through the brush and cut a road through from highway 98 to Pensacola Bay. And at the top of the bluff, that bluff must be a hundred feet high, right down to the water. And so what they did is cleared the area over there and put up a tent city for Black camp. Black scout camp. That didn’t have a waterfront director and I’d been the national camping school for waterfront directors. So guess who got to be waterfront director for Black camp? I’ve got some pictures of the boys out in the bay, they could wade out five hundred feet and they’d be up to their waist. The bay is real shallow near the sides there. So I ran the waterfront for the Black camp that year and that was the most fun. I got a picture of us playing softball, we were playing softball up there too. I enjoyed it. It had never been a problem to me. It just damn sure ain’t no problem and I just can’t understand—I really have a hard time with people who just won’t listen. We got the worst one in Washington. As a good friend of mine says, “He not only don’t know nothing, he doesn’t eve suspect anything!”





	V:	Well he also ain’t from here, so I think that’s—I don’t mean to inject my opinion but that’s my biggest problem with a lot of the—

	S:	New York City.



	V:	And a gold-covered apartment.



	S:	Bankrupt four times. [Laughter] Growing the board walk in Atlantic City.



	V:	But that’s outside the realm of Cantonment. We have taken up enough of your time, thank you for talking with guys.

	C:	Thank you so much.



	S:	It was my pleasure. I could talk—I don’t know, oh you asked me what I had planned? Well what I was gonna do was try to bring you from 1945 up Muskogee Road there a little bit. We got off track on various subjects but I think—oh you know what the Natchez trace is?

	V:	The what?



S;  The Natchez Trace. V:  The Natchez Trace. S:   The Natchez Trace.

V:   Right. Is it related to Natchez, Mississippi.



	S:	Yeah, that’s where it got it’s name. And here’s the way it worked. After the colonists settled the Appalachian and they started infiltrating across the Appalachians, into Ohio, Indiana, Illinois. Well, they cleared land and farmed but they had to get their produce to a market. And the only market—you had your choice, do you put it on your back somehow and get it across the Appalachians to the American colonies? Or ship it down a river to New Orleans? So what they





would do, they would cut lumber and build flat boats. Put the produce on them and float down the river to New Orleans, sell their stuff, they’d knock the boat apart and sell the lumber, and then they would catch another boat coming up the river, a powered boat up the Natchez. And they’d get off there and then they’d follow an old Indian trail up through—it ends about twenty miles south of Nashville. And of course they got trails that they could get back to their own places, but they used the Ohio River, they used the Tennessee River, a whole bunch of—all of those rivers flow into the Mississippi. There’s another river that flows through Tennessee, I forget the name of it, that goes through Nashville.

And then up in Ohio, they’d get on the Ohio River and it’d come down. And so that trace, that’s the way it got it’s name. The Natchez Trace. If you want to really see some early history of the United States, the Natchez Trace would be a good place to do it. And you could—the speed limit on it is thirty-five miles an hour.

And it goes up, I found out more about the early part of the Civil War up in Tupelo, Mississippi than I ever knew before. And I thought I knew pretty much about it.

	V:	That would be interesting because our group—Grace is one of the people that organizes it—we do a trip to Mississippi every year, to the Delta I should say.

	C:	And Natchez has been one of the towns we visit in the past couple of years. S:	What do you do, visit the Antebellum homes and what have you?

	C:	No, so we have there’s a local museum there— S:	Yeah, I’ve been there.

	C:	And then there’s a, it’s called the Fannie Lou Hammer Heritage—





	S:	Okay let me tell you about something they have there, and it happens, it’s gonna be coming up in a month or so. But what they do is there’s two women’s clubs in Natchez, I know where they go now, they’ve got a brown gambling boat down in the river. [Laughter] Back to my story, what they do it the two women’s clubs in Natchez Mississippi, they do put this on every year in the springtime. And what it is is a play from colonial times up to the last scene in the play is when the young men are all in their uniforms and their fixing to march off to the Civil War. And it is outstanding and tickets are fifteen bucks a piece. But a lot of the cast that is now playing the grown up parts started playing it when they were toddlers. They have little kids in it and everything and it’s just a big community thing and it is so good. I might have a brochure on that at the house. But that would be a good thing to see in Natchez.

	C:	Okay, we will definitely have to check it out.



	S:	Hey, I know you can probably go online and you can probably find out some information about it.

	C:	Definitely.



	V;	Yeah.



	S:	You can call the visitor’s center and they can tell you who to contact.



	C:	Okay we’ll definitely do that. We also wanted cot invite you, the director of the Oral History Program that we’re here with, Dr. Ortiz, he’s giving a talk tomorrow from four to six on his book and he wanted to invite all of the people that we interview today.

	S:	Where’s it gonna be?





	C:	It’s gonna be at the Pensacola State College. S:	Okay.

	C:	And it’s from—



	S:	It’ll probably be over in the auditorium at the— C:	Yes the Hagler Auditorium.

	S:	Yeah it’s over at the radio station. C:	I think so.

	S:	TV station.



	C:	But you are more than welcome to join us.





[End of interview]





Transcribed by: Abby Lovett



Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, May 10, 2021 Final Edit by: Marcus Chatfield, September 22, 2021