AAHP 378; Brown; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 378 Taffany Brown

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Randi Gill-Sadler on April 25, 2015 46 minutes | 28 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 378

Interviewee: Taffany Brown Interviewer: Randi Gill-Sadler Date: April 25, 2015



	S:	I am Randi Gill-Sadler with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Project here in White Springs. It is April 25, 2015, and I’m here with—

	B:	Taffany Brown.



	S:	Thank you so much for being here, Taffany, today. I want to start off asking when and where you were born.

	B:	I was born in Jacksonville, Florida, October the 8th, 1999. S:	Okay. And how long did you live in Jacksonville?

	B:	Oh, not long. A month or two that was it. And I moved here. S:	So you spent the majority of your life in White Springs?

	B:	Yes.



	S:	And where do you go to school? B:	Hamilton County High School.

	S:	Now do you have a job around here, or do you strictly go to school? B:	Go to school.

	S:	What activities are you involved in at school? B:	RIMS.

	S:	What’s RIMS?



	B:	It is a part of FAMU—it’s training for their summer program. S:	Okay, and what’s their summer program?

	B:	It’s a camp for writing, reading, science, and math for six weeks. You go a week, you come home on Fridays, and you go back on Sundays.

	S:	Okay, and that’s with FAMU university?





	B:	Yes.



	S:	Okay. And how did you get involved with that program?



	B:	I was starting off in algebra class, but then I started doing it online, and then I went to my tutor. He was like, “I’m a part of this program for FAMU, and you fit the qualifications, so I’m going sign you up.” And then, that’s how it just happened.

	S:	Okay, and so have you—are you preparing to go this summer? B:	Yes.

	S:	Okay, okay. Do you—have you visited a lot of colleges in the area, or will this kinda be your first time going on a college campus?

	B:	It should be—no, it won’t be my first time. Second, probably. S:	Second? What other places have you been to?

	B:	I’ve been to FAMU before.



	S:	You’ve been to FAMU before. Do a lot of people in this area go to FAMU? B:	Most of the people that live here have been in college at FAMU.

	S:	Okay. And do you wanna go to FAMU?



	B:	Yeah. Most of my family have went to FAMU, so it’s like— S:	Okay, who all in your family went to FAMU?

	B:	My cousins, most of my cousins.



	S:	Your cousins? And if you go to FAMU, what do you want to study? B:	I wanna be a journalist.

	S:	Oh okay, nice. We need more journalists. So what do your parents do?





	B:	My mother is a CNA, she works at Avalon, and my father works at the prison in Jasper.

	S:	And so, now your mom also does a little bit of theater and performance too? B:	Yes.

	S:	Okay, can you talk a little bit about that?



	B:	Yes. She has been doing it since I was born, since 1999. So it’s like, fifteen years. She started in Panama City at one of our family reunions, and then as time went, she got bigger and bigger, and she’s done performances at the college.

	S:	Which college?



	B:	Lake City Community College.



	S:	Lake City Community College, okay.



	B:	With Terrance, the man that played in Tyler Perry’s stage plays.



	S:	Okay, and what exactly does she perform? Can you describe her performance? B:	Yes, she’s a lady, and she’s here, and she just speaks morals. She’s honest.

She tells what we need to do as a community to get better and how we can help each other, instead of bringing each other down, build us up.

	S:	And do you think people in this area enjoy your mother’s performances?



	B:	Yes, she performs here a lot, but then she goes other places. So a lot of people see her.

	S:	And what kind of advice does your mom’s character give for the White Springs community?





	B:	That we’re a community and we need to love and care for each other and we need to help each other and mostly that is this community. We help each other. It’s not like, no, I can’t do this for you, it’s like, okay, I’m going try my best, and if I can’t, I’m sorry, but you know, I’m trying. It’s like that.

	S:	So you feel very strong sense of community in White Springs? B:	Yes.

	S:	What type of things does this community do together?



	B:	Well, my family—I’m a Brown, and they have this thing called Old Fashioned Day. It’s on the third Sunday in October. My great-grandmother, Annie Lee Brown started it. And last year, they got her a stamp. She has her own postal stamp.

	S:	That’s awesome.



	B:	That was a big thing last year. That was like, I recognize—a postal stamp, that’s big. Cause Maya Angelou just got hers too. And then we have the folk festival. And then we have this big thing in—well it’s the 16th of May this year, it’s called May Day. That’s another thing the community’s involved with.

	S:	Okay. Now I’m going go back and ask you a little bit more details about each even that you’ve talked about. So the first one you talked about was Old Fashioned Day. And you said your great-grandmother, Annie Lee Brown started that tradition, so what was the point of that tradition?

	B:	It’s where a community comes together and we talk and we just communicate. It’s like a barbecue, but it’s not a barbecue. It’s morals. It’s like we have church.

	S:	Okay, and what church do you all attend?





	B:	Well, I attend New Jerusalem Baptist Church. S:	New Jerusalem Baptist Church?

	B:	Yes.



	S:	And is this where you all hold the Old Fashioned Day?



	B:	No. We hold Old Fashioned Day at my great-grandma’s house up the hill. S:	Oh, okay. And do you know a lot about your great-grandmother’s life?

	B:	I know a lot. Not a lot lot, but I know what I’ve been told. S:	Okay, did she grow up here in the White Springs area? B:	No. She moved here, and that’s how it started.

	S:	And that’s kinda how your family got their roots here. B:	Yes, through my great-grandmother.

	S:	Okay, do you know what she did for a living?



	B:	Not really, but I know she raised her children. That was her thing.



	S:	Okay, that’s fine. And I’m asking you to think really far back, so don’t feel any pressure to know a lot of these things. Do people, when you celebrate Old Fashioned Day now, do people dress up? Do they give speeches, sing songs? What all takes place during that celebration?

	B:	In the morning, my cousins and family and friends come around, get it prepared, and at about 12 o’clock we start. And people from everywhere around the surrounding counties come. Like Hamilton, people come from Suwanee, people come from Columbia. And we just gather and we have church and a good time. We just talk, and people read speeches, like one of my cousins, his dad used to read this poem, and he reads it just like his dad. So he does it, and my mom





does her skits, and then my aunts and uncles, they sing, and my cousins sing, and well a lot of my cousins play instruments, like my cousin Eugene, he plays the guitar. And my cousin Chuckie, he sings. Most of sing, not all of us, but most of sing.

	S:	Okay, and so the Old Fashioned Day is really a Brown family event. You guys are responsible for putting it together and making sure that it goes on?

	B:	Yes.



	S:	Okay. You said that y’all also have a barbeque, what kinda things do y’all have at the barbeque?

	B:	It’s just like—it’s not a barbeque, but it’s like a barbeque. S:	Okay, so it’s more like a picnic than a barbeque?

	B:	Yeah, a picnic.



	S:	Okay. Any unique kinda food that y’all have there? Or is it like standard picnic food?

	B:	No, it’s ribs, corn, all the things you have at a picnic I guess.



	S:	Okay and the purpose of that event is just to bring the community together?



	B:	And it’s like, they just have church and they celebrate her life, and then they celebrate our community. It’s—you know like a lot of things they do in a community, it’s like a big party, but it’s morals, you learn stuff, you will probably come here, and be like, “Oh, it’s just like a picnic. “But you’ll leave with a life lesson.

	S:	Okay, so give me an example of a life lesson that you might learn from Old Fashioned Day.





	B:	A life lesson—you ever heard of the saying that a family that prays together, stays together?

	S:	Mmhm.



	B:	That’s a life lesson you’ll get from that. ‘Cause from Florida, if I’m remembering right, I’m a little kid, but it’s like family. That’s what holds you together. If you in a bundle, you can call family. That’s what you’ll learn.

	S:	Okay. What about, do you know anything about your great-grandfather? B:	No, I don’t know much about my great-grandfather.

	S:	Okay. And so, you talked a little bit also about the Folk Festival. Can you describe to me what the Folk Festival is about?

	B:	I can’t really describe a lot about it but it’s like a lot of folk stuff goes on. S:	Okay, and do you usually go to that?

	B:	I didn’t go to it last year, but I did sing. S:	You sang?

	B:	And I danced. I sang with my church, in elementary school our team went and performed.

	S:	Okay, but that’s something that usually the majority of the community comes out to participate in?

	B:	Yes.



	S:	And is that something that the surrounding community also comes to as well? B:	Yes, ma’am.

	S:	Okay. You don’t have to call me ma’am. And the last celebration that you talked about was the May Day celebration. So what does that celebration entail?







B:

It’s like Old Fashioned Day, but it’s just a community fun day. Something like



that.

S:

Okay, and that’s to commemorate the emancipation of slaves, correct?

B:

Yes.

S:

Okay, and what type of activities go on during the May Day celebration here?

B:

They have, at the field we do a telling of the history.

S:

Okay. Do they do speeches as well?

B:

Yes.

S:

Okay. What kinda, do you remember any of the specific speeches?

B:

I know one year my mom, she does her thing there too.

S:

Okay. So can you talk about what your mom did that particular year?

B:

She talked about the history.

S:

Okay. Specifically at White Springs?

B:

Yes and about our past.

S:

You mean “our” like our family past, or—

B:

Uh-uh.

S:

Or just Black people in general?

B:

Generation.

S:

Gotcha. Okay. And does that also include a barbeque, or—

B:

Yes.

S:

Okay. Same type of barbeque you have around Old Fashioned Day? Or



anything—

B:

Yes.





	S:	Okay. And is that something that the wider community comes out to as well? B:	Yes.

	S:	Okay. So I wanna go back a little bit, ‘cause I know your school. Can you talk about the demographics in your school? Is it predominantly Black? Is it predominantly White? How is it—

	B:	It’s equal.



	S:	Okay, so it’s about half-and-half. And do you all have a lot about White Springs history that you learn at school?

	B:	No.



	S:	Okay. What type of things do you guys discuss in your history classes at Hamilton?

	B:	In 9th grade, we don’t take history. You gotta do it in 10th grade. S:	Okay, so what kinda classes are you taking right now?

	B:	I take environmental science, and then I take ROTC, and I take art, algebra I, PE, CCC—which is a computer class—and English Honors I.

	S:	Okay, and so in your environmental science class, do you guys do a lot of stuff out in the community? Or is it more classroom-based?

	B:	We’ll go outside at school—



	S:	And so if you don’t take history as a 9th grader, then where do you learn about the history of this area, or just history in general?

	B:	You really don’t until you get in the 10th grade.



	S:	Okay, but then you get some history from some of the—or do you get some history from some of the community events?





	B:	Yes.



	S:	Okay. And so you mentioned that you’re a part of ROTC. Are a lot of the younger teenagers a part of ROTC as well?

	B:	Yes.



	S:	What other community activities are there for teenagers to be a part of in this community?

	B:	Not much that I know of.



	S:	Not much that you know of?



	B:	Well, you have your church youth groups.



	S:	That’s the majority of the kinda community functions for kids. So the church has a very strong presence in this community?

	B:	Yes.



	S:	What type of events does the church put on?



	B:	We have praise dances and then we have programs like choirs and parade, where different churches come, and then we have Christian Congress Education, and they do different things like every fifth Sunday you need the kids to do a program on a Saturday, and stuff like that.

	S:	Can you talk a little bit more about that, the Christian Congress, is that how you call it? What’s the name? I just wanna make sure I say it correct for the recording. What age group is that for?

	B:	It’s District Congress of Christian Education.



	S:	District Congress of Christian Education. Okay, so can you talk a little bit about that? Like what age group is a part of it?





B:   It’s all age groups.



S:  It’s all age groups? Okay. And then what—and it’s an emphasis on a Christian education?

B:  Yes. We learn history through it too, but it’s like church. We do a lot of church stuff. We do bible trivias. We do oratorical contests, and we do a performance type thing on that Saturday.

S:  And so you’ve participated in oratorical contests? B:  Yes.

S:   And you’ve done pretty well with that?



B:   I’ve did it three years since I was of age to do it. I won the first year. The second, I came in second place, and I won last year, first place.

S:  That’s awesome, congratulations. B:  Thank you.

S:   And so you talked a little bit about the fact that outside the school activities and the church activities, there wasn’t necessarily a lot of things for young people to do. Do you find that young people in the area have a hard time finding things to get into?

B:   Can we stop that real quick?



	S:	Okay, this is Randi Gill-Sadler, April 25, 2014, and I’m here in White Springs with—

B:   Taffany Brown.





S:  And we’re starting up again. So you talked about the fact that outside of school and community events that there are not a lot of things for young people to get into at White Springs.

B:   Right.



	S:	Do you find that because there’s a lack of community events for young people, community organizations for them to get into, that that creates problems with the younger generation, or the teenagers in this community?

	B:	Yes. It’s probably like if you don’t have something to do, most of the time, you gonna do something you shouldn’t do. So you need a positive—the community, it’s a positive community and it’s safe, but we just need something to do.

	S:	And you said for the most part it is a safe community here. B:	Yes.

	S:	What about the relationship between teenagers and the police here? Is there a good relationship, are there programs to foster good relationships?

B:   No programs. But it’s mostly a good relationship.



	S:	Do you guys have resource officers at your school? B:	Yes.

	S:	And you usually have good relationships with them also? B:	We have one to be honest—

	S:	One, okay. And so the high school that you go to, it’s for the three counties?



	B:	No, it’s for one county. I mean, anybody from another county can come to the school, but it’s mostly people from Hamilton.





	S:	Now, have you had friends who were maybe a couple years older than you or friends who graduated from Hamilton? Now when people graduate from Hamilton, do they usually stay around here or do they go somewhere else?

	B:	It really depends on how well you do in the school because most likely, if you didn’t do what you had to do in school, you’ll probably be here.

	S:	So most people when they graduate they do leave here? B:	Yes.

	S:	And when people don’t leave here and they stay here, what do they tend to do? B:	Normally, they would—it would go to PCS—

	S:	What’s PCS? I’m sorry. B:	PCS is PotashCorp.

	S:	And what exactly is that?



	B:	I don’t know much about it, but it’s a company that works with phosphate. S:	Okay, so somehow get involved in the phosphate industry, they stay here.

Anything else, other opportunities that people have to work if they stay here after high school?

	B:	You can work at Stephen Foster or one of the local stores. S:	Do you plan on going somewhere else after you grad—

	B:	Yes.



	S:	Do you see yourself coming back to this community later on, or would you wanna—

	B:	When I get to an age where I’ve done everything I’ve wanted to do with my life, and I’m stable, then I’m back, but until then.





	S:	No. Why do you feel that way?



	B:	To be honest, in my opinion, it’s nothing here. It’s a great community, but if you want to make better of your life, you need to get out of here and do better, and then when you’re stable and you got everything you need in life, and you’ve done all you wanted to do, then come back and relax ‘cause you’ve done everything you need to do, stable. No problems.

	S:	What type of things would you like to see come to White Springs, especially for young people your age? What do you think should come here that could really engage young people?

	B:	Like an organization for us, like somewhere after school we all could go. S:	Okay, so some type of, like a recreation center, something like that?

	B:	Yes. And one time we had one, but then they started doing it just for the summer.



	S:	So that used to be a recreation center you could go to after school, but then it wasn’t able to run during the school year, it only runs during the summer?

	B:	Yes.



	S:	And what’s the name of that place?



	B:	It’s Hope Summer Enrichment Program.



	S:	What other things might make someone like you or your age wanna stay here or have a more enjoyable time in this community?

	B:	You mean, stay here after I graduate or just stay here—



	S:	That too, but would also make the time which you’re already spending here more enjoyable.





	B:	Programs, something to do. Like some policy where my parents would know I’m not doing something that I shouldn’t do.

	S:	What type of programs? Give me an example.



	B:	You know how some towns have boys and girls club? Something like that. S:	Something like that, which you don’t have here? No boys and girls club? B:	No.

	S:	I wanted to ask you a question about your teachers at Hamilton. Do you have mostly Black teachers, mostly White teachers, is it a combination of both?

	B:	It would be a mix but it’s not a mix. It’s kind of a mix but it’s not—



	S:	Explain what you mean when you say not. “It’s kind of a mix but not.”



B:  With my teachers, I have two Black teachers, I have Mrs. Bradshaw and I have Colonel Davis. No, I have three ‘cause I got switched out of my algebra class to online class, and my online teacher that’s in the classroom, he’s Black. Mr.

Glover.



	S:	Okay. So why did you say it’s not a mix?



	B:	Because most of classes you’ll go to is mostly White. S:	As far as the professors or the students also?

	B:	No, the teachers.



	S:	The teachers. Do you have good relationships with your teachers there? B:	Some.

	S:	Some?



	B:	Yeah.



	S:	Others not so much?





	B:	Most of them, but some not so much.



	S:	Okay. Do you all talk about current events at your school, like some of the things that are happening whether it’s in Ferguson, or whether it’s Trayvon Martin, do you guys talk about any of those issues in the high school?

	B:	It’s not brought about by teachers or people like adults, it’s mostly like we’ll be in the classroom, and if it happened—like Ferguson—and we’ll just spark up the conversation and opinion come first.

	S:	So do the teachers get into those conversations, or do you just have those conversations on your own?

	B:	Some—not—no. No, no teachers.



	S:	Okay, so it’s really something that your peers are more concerned to bring up.



And what kind of conversations do you all have about those issues?



	B:	It’s like, we’ll be talking about Ferguson with Mike Brown we talked about that one time. It was really not cause for a full argument and then some White kids be like, “No, he was wrong.” But in my opinion, he wasn’t right, but he wasn’t wrong to—it was wrong how he died. And what happened to him and his family.

	S:	Now are those conversations uncomfortable when you’re having them in a mixed group of students?

	B:	Like students?



	S:	Yes.



	B:	No. It’s like, it’s my opinion, if you don’t like it, then I don’t need to talk to you.





S:  Okay, but when you are—let’s say you are talking to another White student who doesn’t share your same opinion, do those conversations get tense, or does the conversation just dissolve once y’all disagree?

B:   No, it gets tense.



S:   It gets tense. And then what happens when it gets tense?



	B:	It’s either, you talk it out, or you just leave it. But most of the time it’s talked out.



We won’t go back to it, but if it comes up again—if it happen again.



	S:	And so when Trayvon Martin was murdered, that was what—three hours away from here? Two and half, three hours away from here? Did you and your friends at school talk about that at all? Did it have an impact?

	B:	I wasn’t at this school at this time.



	S:	Okay, well what about your previous school? Did y’all talk about it?



	B:	No, not a lot. But you can tell people had their opinions, but it still come out. S:	Did you talk about it at church at all?

	B:	Yeah. Our church they wanted us to know you have to present yourself in a presentable manner. You have to act the way you were taught to act. Don’t be who you’re not.

	S:	When you say “who you’re not,” what do you mean when you say that?



	B:	Don’t —in my home, I’m raised to say “yes ma’am” “no ma’am” “yes sir” “no sir,” and me—if an adult comes to me and says something inappropriate, or that I know is not right, if I’m at my mom’s or nobody is around me, I need to call them, don’t just go “Well, you’re not my mom,” or this and that, I need to call an adult





that I know that can handle the situation before it gets out of hand where it doesn’t have to be.

	S:	What other type of conversations do you and your peers, either at your old school or at your current school, do you guys talk about amongst yourself around social issues?

	B:	We talked about–-you know KJ? You don’t know KJ? The boy that was murdered in Valdosta?

	S:	Can you talk about that a little bit?



	B:	Well, on the news, it was that he was found rolled up in a mat, and he died. He was murdered, and they really didn’t—from my knowledge, they really didn’t figure out who did it or what happened. And we talk about it. That coulda been us, and nobody woulda knew. It doesn’t get tense because [inaudible 28:52].

They had walks and marches about him. Why it should be more meetings, things held to commemorate him and then to let our generation know that we need to make a difference, we need to be the change we want to see in the society.

	S:	And you said a little bit earlier when you were talking about it, you felt like—you and your friends felt like that could’ve been one of you.

	B:	Yes. Any of the situations could have been one of us. S:	And why did you feel that it could’ve been you?

	B:	Things happen. It’s life. We could’ve been walking down the street like Mike Brown, and we look suspicious just because of the color of our skin, and we could’ve been going down and that, but it wasn’t us, it was him. But it was showing us that we need to straighten up and stuff like that.





	S:	So let’s talk a little bit about this community. You talked about you do a lot of events with your family. But are there a lot of events where the Black people from this community and the White people from this community are coming together?

	B:	Most of those events, yeah, and then we have the Azalea Festival. S:	Okay, can you talk a little bit about that?

	B:	It’s based around the flowers—it’s a wild azalea flower, and it’s out here. And last year, my cousin and she won the—my auntie won Miss Wild Azalea. She won it, and this year, she gave her crown to another little girl. Every year, the previous winner gives her crown down to the next one.

	S:	So is it like a pageant, or? Okay. And so somebody gets crowned, and each year they pick another one?

	B:	I think it’s based on—not who you are, but who raised the most money. S:	Oh, okay. So like a fundraiser.

	B:	Yes.



	S:	Now so there’s a lot of wildlife here, so you telling me you don’t—do you do any wildlife, do you go see the springs, do you fish, do you do any of that?

	B:	I don’t fish. I’ve been fishing before, but it’s not my favorite. S:	It’s not your favorite? Why not?

	B:	It’s an animal that moves. I don’t want—but if you, the other day we went walking. You can see anything on these roads, like snakes. When we was little, we would ride the golf cart, my Nana, and one time, I remember this one time, I was going down this road, and there was like a snake in the ground. And it was













S:

just sitting there. And you can be walking down the road, and you’ll run up on a snake.

Okay. So a lot of wild animals here, but that’s not really—that’s not something



that you really get into. And you said you do fish a little bit?

B:

I did.

S:

You fished once.

B:

Twice.

S:

Twice. But you don’t enjoy fishing?

B:

No.

S:

Any other outdoorsy activities that you do around here?

B:

I go walking and play basketball, but that’s all.

S:

Okay. Now when you went fishing, you said you went with your Nana?

B:

Uh-huh, I rode—oh, we’d ride golf carts.

S:

Okay, and who taught you?

B:

To ride a golf cart?

S:

To fish.

B:

Oh. First time, it was with the summer program.

S:

The Hope Summer Enrichment Program? Okay.

B:

We went out there and we fished at the ponds.

S:

And what other things do you do with the Hope Summer Enrichment Program?

B:

They do a lot.

S:

What all do they do?





	B:	We take trips, like every other Friday we went to the skating rink or the movies.



And then we have some people come read to the children. And then we go to the library every other day and we read. And then we take field trips to Gainesville.

We went fishing in Gainesville.



	S:	Okay, have y’all ever visited the University of Florida, when you go to Gainesville?

	B:	No.



	S:	But you said you have been to FAMU before but it wasn’t with this program. B:	No, it was with this program. We went to see Maya Angelou.

	S:	Okay, so that was a few years ago? B:	Yes.

	S:	And the Hope Summer Enrichment Program—is the students in their program predominantly Black?

	B:	Mostly, yes.



	S:	And who runs that program? Is it teachers, is it community members? B:	The mayor.

	S:	The mayor runs it. And so you’ve met the mayor? B:	Yes.

	S:	Yes? You like the mayor? B:	I work for the mayor.

	S:	You work for the mayor, what did you do for the mayor? B:	I worked at the enrichment program.

	S:	Okay and how was that?





	B:	It was great.



	S:	Yeah? What type of things did you do when you worked at that program? B:	I was an intern.

	S:	You were an intern. And so what did you have to do while you were interning?



	B:	It’s like, different interns, get your own set of kids with the adults supervisor. So I worked last year I worked with K through third grade, so we did—during the days that we didn’t do field trips, we did classroom work. It was like a classroom setting. We learned—we played, we took them outside, but we mostly did work.

	S:	So you were really kind of being a mentor to the younger kids, and did the K through third grade children, did they accept y’all as mentors?

	B:	Yeah.



	S:	Did you enjoy doing that did you enjoy mentoring younger kids? B:	Yes.

	S:	Is that something that you would do again? B:	Yeah.

	S:	Now do you have any people who you consider mentors that you look up to? B:	A lot of people. Like my nana and my mom. Mrs. Florine Roberts.

	S:	And who is Mrs. Florine Roberts?



	B:	She’s one of my youth directors, and she was my cohort for the state summit.



And she works for the school district, and she works at the school.



	S:	And why is she somebody that you look up to?



	B:	Because she doesn’t take no for an answer. When I was already preparing for the state summit, but my paw-paw passed away and my tete passed away, so I





was—my mom was like, “Well I don’t think you need to do it,” I’m like “No, I’m not gonna do it,” and she was like, “No, you need a new environment, you need to do this,” and I was like, “Okay.” So I had to start writing my speech, and she got me back writing my speech, and I finished it, and I went to Tampa and I did my oratorical, and I won first place at State.

S:  That’s awesome. And so she was able to really push you when you needed that push. Do you feel like there are a lot of adults around here who are supportive in mentoring the kids?

B:   Yeah.



	S:	And is a lot of that mentoring happening at the school? B:	Church.

	S:	At the church, more so at the church. So the church is really kind of the backbone of this community for a lot of people.

	B:	Even if you don’t go to church, they’ll support you.



	S:	And do you have a lot of your peers at school who go to the same church as you?

	B:	Most of my peers, but not most—it’s between Jasper, Jennings, and White Springs. Some go to the churches in Jasper, but most people I talk to go to my church.

	S:	Okay. And do you visit Jasper or Suwanee at all, the other surrounding areas?



	B:	Yes, my father’s side lives in Suwanee, and then my paw-paw, he was from here, and my nana is from Jasper.

	S:	And so are those communities similar to—





	B:	Each other?



	S:	Yes.



	B:	Yeah.



	S:	So when people graduate from those areas, they leave and don’t come back? B:	No. Now from my area, from White Springs? Yeah. They go in the service.

	S:	In the military service? B:	Yes.

	S:	And that’s what a lot of people do?



	B:	From this area, it’s—you go to the service, you go to college, you go to PCS. S:	And those are the main kinda things.

	B:	Or you’re a nurse.



	S:	Or you’re a nurse. Now do people go to nursing school away from here, is there somewhere in the area, ‘cause you did mention the Lake City Community College, do people go there?

	B:	I have a cousin that goes there.



	S:	And so you say you have plans to go to college and become a journalist. And what kind of things do you wanna write about as a journalist?

	B:	Not everything, but things that I can relate to, and things that I can’t sometimes.



	S:	So give me an example of something that you can relate to but you could write about.

	B:	I can write about family, and having strong relations with family and why people should and should not. Like Trayvon Martin and Mike Brown, I wrote a similar





story for my oratorical speech. Why bystanders should not intervene when there is trouble. And I picked they should intervene.

	S:	And this is the oratorical speech that you won for? B:	Mmhm.

	S:	Okay, can you talk a little bit more about what you wrote in that? So you talked about bystanders. And you said that they should intervene, and why did you take that position?

	B:	Because I wanted my—one person that I wrote about was this man, he got hit by a vehicle, and he ended up on the sidewalk motionless. He was lifeless, and he died. But on the bus surveillance camera, people passed by him. A woman passed by with shopping bands in her hand and stepped across him, people walked past him, people got off the bus, walked past him, and this man was there not moving and nobody said “Well, let’s help him.” Hours later, people tried to help him but it was too late, he died.

	S:	And so from that experience, you gathered that had somebody helped—



	B:	Yeah, and I wrote about hypothetically speaking, if you were at your apartment complex and someone just I don’t know hit you, beat you, and people walk past and didn’t even flinch to help, you would think, “What’s life, if nobody can help me?” You don’t have to intervene and physically help, you can call the authorities or someone to help.

	S:	What other type of topics have you talked about in your writing and your oratorical competitions?





	B:	Most of the time, I wrote about my environment. Not my family, in general, but I wrote about my paw-paw, I wrote about Destiny, my aunt, and I wrote about bystanders.

	S:	What’d you write about our paw-paw?



	B:	My paw-paw, he had cancer for six years, he passed away February the 7th, and I wrote about him even though he was sick, he never looked—if you met him you would be like, “He’s not sick.” He was like strong like that. And my nana, they would never get sad or anything, they would just be strong, ‘cause at first—me, I’m the nosy one. I’m going look for details, and when he first got sick, I was paying attention, I was like, “Something ain’t right.” And then I found out, and then I was like, “Oh, this is big, this is deep.” And he never—he would always go walking and stuff until he got really, really sick. And a couple of months ago, I knew something else wasn’t right again, and I overheard them talking, I was like, “It’s back,” he was sick again. See he had watched my auntie, Destiny, she had got sick last year. It was December 30th, they took her to the pediatrician in Lake City, and it was a tumor in her stomach, it was like the size of a basketball. It had cancer in it. So she had to go through surgery and treatments, and we had always watched paw-paw, and nobody knew what he went through, but Destiny had the experience of knowing what he went through, and getting needles stuck in you and all that. And I remember one night, I had went to the hospital with my nana and my momma and I stayed up there with them, I was thinking in my head, “I could not do this, this is hard,” ‘cause she had a weak immune system, so if





you sneezed germs—and at nighttime I sneeze, so I was trying to hold it, and I couldn’t, and I was like, “I couldn’t do this, it’s hard.”

	S:	So in a lot of your writing, you kind of honor the people in your family.



	B:	Right. She strong, she’s really strong. She helped her mother, her sisters, ‘cause my aunt, she passed away too on February 25th, eighteen days after my paw- paw did, and for her to go through with Destiny, her mama, then her sister, then my paw-paw, it’s like—if it was me, I probably would have been like, “I can’t do this, I need help.” But she wouldn’t ever say she needed help, but my momma and then, they would help her. When I was telling earlier about family and Old Fashioned Day and morals and this community, this community is a strong community. They came together like Mrs. Florine when my paw-paw died, they was there, they helped. A lot of people helped.

	S:	A lot of people supported each other in that time of need. Okay. And you said that you mentioned that your aunt went to Lake City hospital? Is that the hospital that—Lake City Hospital?

	B:	No, she didn’t go to Lake City—she was at the pediatrician in Lake City. S:	Oh, the pediatrician in Lake City.

	B:	And then they took her to Gainesville.



	S:	And are there local hospitals around her, or do you have to go to like another county?

	B:	You have to go to Colombia or Suwanee. S:	And how far is that?

	B:	Thirty minutes. It depends on who’s driving.





	S:	It depends on who was driving. Well is there anything else that I didn’t ask you about that you wanted to just share or any final comments that you wanted to say about White Springs?

	B:	It’s a great place, but sometimes you have to get up and go and find yourself, and then you can return.

	S:	Alright, well that’s gonna conclude this interview, thank you so much Taffany. B:	You’re welcome.

[End Transcript]





	Transcribed by:	Chris Calton, September 12, 2018



	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, September 12, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019