AAHP 062; Jones; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 062 Jessie Jones

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Sean Wiggins on June 21, 2009

53 minutes | 32 pages



Abstract: Jessica Irvin Jones grew up in Green Cove Springs, Florida, and moved to Alachua when she was fourteen. In describing her family history, she relates that her grandmother had Native ancestry while her grandfather was what was known as a “quarterman.” She shares some memories of going to A.L. Mebane High School in Alachua, and the long walk she and her peers had to undertake every day from LaCrosse to Alachua to go to the school. She also discusses her family history of farming, and her husband’s work as a minister in the African Methodist Episcopal church. Ms. Jones describes her philosophy as being one of generosity and openness, and laments the gradual loss of a sense of community that she feels was much stronger when she was younger.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Clay County, Florida]









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 062

Interviewee: Jessie Jones Interviewer: Sean Wiggins Date: June 21, 2009



W:  All right, we can begin. Just for the record— J:   You got Jessica Ervin Jones?

W:   Yes, ma’am. And I’ll make sure that we have all that spelled right, and with you. J:   Yeah, that’s the whole routine of my name before I got married; Ervin Johnson. W:  All right. Yeah, we’ll make sure that’s right for the record. And just for the record,

my name is Sean Wiggins with the University of Florida Samuel Proctor Oral History. And we’re here in Ms. Jones’ house—the office of the house, and we’re going to talk a little. Sound good?

	J:	[Laughter] Yep. That sounds okay, long as it don’t take too long.



	W:	Not too long. We won’t keep you for too long, I promise. You tell me whenever you’re—if we’re getting to a point where you don’t want to go anymore [snaps], I’ll wrap it up.

	J:	Well, you can always come back.



	W:	Okay, we could do that. I guess first, how old are you, Ms. Jones? What year where you born?

	J:	I was born 1918, June 22nd. W:	1918—?

	J:	June 22nd.



	W:	June 22nd. And how long have you lived in this area? J:	This area? For sixty years.

	W:	You’ve been here for sixty years?





	J:	Sixty-five years. I didn’t live here, I moved here—well, I wasn’t married before I moved here. I was twenty—when we moved from Green Cove Springs, I was fourteen. I was fourteen when we moved to Alachua County.

	W:	You moved from Green Cove Springs? J:	Green Cove Springs.

	W:	Where’s that?



	J:	That’s up around, oh, Green Cove Springs is around alongside of Palatka. You know where Green Cove Spring is? It’s the southwest of—I ain’t been there in so long.

	W:	But it’s by Palatka? So, it’s— J:	This side of Palatka.

	W:	Northeast of here? J:	Yeah.

	W:	All right, Green Cove Springs. And you moved here. Did you move to LaCrosse? J:	We moved to Alachua.

	W:	Alachua.



	J:	Mmhm, Alachua, Florida.



	W:	What was the reason for the move when you were fourteen?



	J:	My dad was building roads. He was building concrete roads like this road out here. There were dirt roads; it wasn’t concrete road like it is now. So he had, they called it extra gang, building roads, concrete roads.

	W:	What was that? Extra—?





J:  Extra gang. That’s the name of the, because they had trains, and buses, and stuff hauling stuff. Putting on red, making concrete roads. So that’s what they were doing. Was about two hundred head of people.

W:   So, he was part of a crew?



J:  He was working. He had that many crew. Him and some several more people had a gang building roads. So, they had to have a lot of people, because they had to have machines, and tar, and all that stuff.

	W:	Was he—what was his position with the roadbuilding crew? J:	He was one of the main mens building roads.

	W:	He was one of the main men working on the roads. J:	Yeah. Uh-huh. Building roads.

	W:	And so, there were just roads to be built here in Alachua County.



	J:	Yeah, Alachua County, and other counties. Building all the way—well, I know when he build them here. But he build them in Green Cove Springs, and down in Palatka, and over—down South, down where all the water is. West Palm Beach? They built roads down there. They had to bring it from that way, this direction.

	W:	So he was building roads all over the state?



	J:	Yeah. Oh, yeah. He had to build roads everywhere. [Phone interruption]

	W:	So, back to where we were. So, you moved here when you were fourteen years old?

	J:	Yep, I was fourteen when I moved. Not this here—we moved in Alachua when I was fourteen.





	W:	Just the general Alachua County area? Not in Gainesville?



	J:	Well, Alachua County. Then we moved, we moved from over in Alachua over here in LaCrosse.

	W:	How old we’re you when you moved to LaCrosse? J:	I was sixteen.

	W:	Oh, so you only really stayed in—



	J:	Well, my dad was over there already. He had got a big house over there. And so, he brought us over. Then he was already there, because he was doing roads over there. So then, after my grandmother passed, then he moved all of us over there. I was living with grandmomma. I never lived with my parents until she passed, and I started living with my parents.

	W:	How old were you when you started living with your parents? J:	I was nine, ten.

	W:	You were nine, ten?



J:  I was ten when I started living with my parents. W:  When you started or stopped?

J:  Started living with them. I was staying with my grandparents, because I was a baby. They raised me until after my grandmother passed. So then, my mother taken me when they moved to Alachua County.

W:  Can you tell me a little bit about your grandmother? J:   She, my grandmother was a Indian.

W:   She was an Indian.



J:   Yeah. She was beautiful.





	W:	Beautiful.



	J:	Yeah, she was a beautiful lady.



	W:	So she was an Indian, a Native Indian from Florida?



	J:	I don’t know where she come from. But that’s my grandparent. And my grandfather, was a quarterman.

	W:	Quarterman?



	J:	Yeah, you know what a quarterman is? W:	No ma’am, I don’t.

	J:	A quarterman is, they call them “quarterman” because they White and the parents was dark Black. That’s why they call them a quarterman. Because my grandfather was White, and my grandmother was an Indian. So they’re all mixed, just the whole group of them. They’re all nice people. My grandparents would take me to Jacksonville to stay with them for a while. And we just had a lot of fun with them. Because it was all one family anyway. It didn’t mean no difference.

	W:	Wonderful. So, you moved here around when you were fourteen to this area— J:	I moved here when I was ten. So, I moved to LaCrosse when I was fourteen.

	W:	Do you remember what it like moving here as a fourteen-year-old girl in this area?

	J:	Yeah. I hated moving here. Because I didn’t know nobody, and the boys was wild, and I didn’t like them! [Laughter] No, I didn’t like to move here. Because we moved in this big house down, further down that way. And we was going, we started going to school, they had a big school here. So, I had—I would beat up boys, because I couldn’t—. [Laughter]





	W:	You would beat up boys?



	J:	[Laughter] Yeah, I beat them up. They wouldn’t hit me back. I just beat them. W:	That was good they didn’t hit back.

	J:	Because I didn’t want them touching me. And I just beat them up. W:	Because they were wild around here.

	J:	And they let me beat them up. So I was, didn’t want them to touch me, so I beat them up. They didn’t care. [Laughter] Their parents wouldn’t allow them to hit girls anymore. So. They didn’t ever hit me. Just let me beat them. [Laughter]

	W:	Let you beat them. You were running things.



	J:	Yeah. Yeah, then I—because I had brothers. I four brothers, but they were older than I was.

	W:	How much older?



	J:	Oh, they were much older. My oldest brother, he was eighteen; the next one was seventeen; the other one was—

	W:	When you were born, or when you were here?



	J:	They were, they were—I was born when they were already here. So, they were older.

	W:	Much older.



	J:	And then, I had two more brothers after—younger brothers, younger than me. W:	So you were the only girl?

	J:	I was the only girl then, but I had two more sisters.



	W:	So, you had two more sisters. So, in total, you had—? J:	Yeah, younger. They were the baby girls.





	W:	How many brothers and sisters did you have, total?



J:  I had five brothers and three sisters. It was eight of us. W:  That’s quite a big family.

J:  Well, I had a big family now. Because I had eight boys and six girls. I have eight boys and six girls. Not that many living. I had eight boys and six girls. Now I got seven boys and four girls.

	W:	I come from—I’m an only child. J:	Only child!

	W:	I’m an only child. No brothers, no sisters. So. J:	Oh, you spoiled! [Laughter]

	W:	I mean, I am. Yes, ma’am, I am. [Laughter] But to even think about having three other people to share my house with sounds like a lot, so when I hear that, it’s—

	J:	You’ve got somebody to share your house?



	W:	No, it was just me and my parents. So whenever I hear you talk about having all those brothers and sisters, I can’t even imagine. I can’t even imagine it.

	J:	I had an older brother when I was real young, I had four brothers and they were big-up boys, because I was the only—there was four of them and just me. And it was a while before they she had any more, I guess, because then she two more boys. And I called them “rambunctious rats.” [Laughter]

	W:	Rambunctious rats? [Laughter]



	J:	When I got big enough, I looked at them like rats. I said, “Them little rats!” [Laughter] And they was always climbing trees, and doing a lot of stuff boys do.

	W:	Yeah, that’s what boys do.





	J:	Climbing, playing ball. And I would sit up out there and watch them play ball. And climb trees! But they had to carry me around on they back, because I was the only girl.

	W:	That’s what brothers are for; they’re supposed to take care of the younger sister. J:	Well, when they was around. Because my dad kept them with him in another city. W:	They were working with him?

	J:	No, they weren’t working, they were going to school. He was down in Pompano Beach, you know where that is? Well, he was down there doing roads, too.

	W:	So, when you got here, did you immediately start up in school? Or was it some time before you got into the local schools?

	J:	No, I got into school when I got here. I started school the next week. W:	The next week? What was school like back then?

	J:	Oh, it was—school was something different than what it is now. You had to—one thing: then, we could do what we wanted to do in class then; it was small. Now, then, you had to make sure you go to school, you had to make sure your fingernails were clean, you had to make sure your ears was clean, your hair was fixed good, when you walk in school. And that’s the way it was then when we was going to school. We had to be clean; you couldn’t have your hair not combed, your face not washed.

	W:	What school was—do you remember the name of the school you attended? J:	Mebane Elementary.

	W:	Mebane. I feel like I’ve heard that before. I think that might still be around.





J:  Yeah. It’s in Alachua. See, they moved that school from here to Alachua. Years back, because I was seventeen years, sixteen or seventeen, when they moved the school.

W:   Was Mebane the middle school that you went to?



	J:	Yeah, it was a middle school. It was a big school. It had different grades in different partments of the school.

	W:	What high school did you go to? J:	I want to A.L. Mebane in Alachua. W:	Say that again?

	J:	What you call the school? It was—ACT. ACT in Alachua. Then, after they had this school, the other one they had there; they had two schools in Alachua. But this one was the big school, and they had the high-grade kids there. So it was— I’m trying to think, what did they call A.L. Mebane? A.L. Mebane. Then in Alachua.

	W:	In Alachua. Do you remember enjoying school? What was your school experience?

	J:	Oh, I loved it when I started. I really loved school. I didn’t want to miss near a day. But we had to walk—when they moved the school from here, we had the grades, when you get a higher grade, you had to go to Alachua to school. So, we had to walk from LaCrosse to Alachua.

	W:	How far of a walk was that? J:	Seven miles.

	W:	Wow. That’s quite a walk.





	J:	It was about fifteen or twenty of us, anyway.



	W:	And how many years did you have to make that walk for?



	J:	We had to walk every day to school; it was five days a week. W:	But, for how many years did you have to do that walk?

	J:	I walked for, I was in the—from here to seventh grade. And they didn’t take a seventh grade out here, so we had to go to Alachua for the seventh grade. So, I went there for seventh, eighth, ninth, and the tenth, and I got tired of walking. So, that’s when they started with buses. Not buses, but they had trucks, they had seats on the thing for the kids can ride. So, that’s when they started. So I got tired of walking. So, I just quit. And was going to go into eleventh grade.

	W:	So going into eleventh grade, they started providing transportation?



	J:	Yeah, they had they started driving a truck. But so many kids catching it, some of them couldn’t get on it. So they had seats across it, maybe five—sit this seat, next seat, like that. Then they started buses after that. So, that was when I quit going. Because I finished, I was going to the eleventh grade. So I quit going.

Then I could study at home. Because my mother used to teach school. I stayed home at school for the last. I didn’t go back to Alachua, because I got tired of walking. It was a lot of us walking.

	W:	That’s a lot of walking.



	J:	Yeah. Walking from here to Alachua. But you didn’t have to go the way the roads is now. We went a differently route, but still, it was a long way. We had to leave at night. It was dark when we left. Yeah, it was dark when we near about to school. And Mr. Mebane wanted to send you back home if you was one minute





late. So, we went back home one day. And the next day, I flew in there. I knew I was going to get a whupping when I got home, but I told him I wasn’t back home and he wasn’t going to send me.

W:   So, did you end up staying that day?



	J:	Oh, he let us stay. I say, “I’m not going! I don’t care what you do. I’m going in this school.” [Laughter]

W:   Was this your teacher, or the principal?



	J:	That was the principal, Mr. Mebane. He said—when we all came up, then put on our shoes and everything, and he said, “The second bell rang; you can’t come in.” And we done got up there close to when the second bell was ringing, he done got to the door, and he said, “You can’t come in.” I say, “I ain’t going back home, I don’t care what you say.” The rest of them wasn’t saying nothing, and I just wasn’t going go back home.

	W:	Was Mr. Mebane a generally nice principal, or was he kind of a disciplinarian?



	J:	Well, he was okay in his way of acting. But, you got to be on time. He didn’t believe in being late. Well, we had a long ways to walk. And he didn’t care where you walked from. He said you should’ve left early enough to be on time. And I got tired of him telling me that. And I knew I was going to get whupped about it, because of for sassing him. But when he said, “The second bell done rang, you can’t come in the school,” I told him, “Oh, yes I am! I’m going in. I don’t care what you said.” I was so mad with him. And all the other kids was standing out there looking; they was scared. And I was scared too, but I was going to fix him when he wouldn’t move.





	W:	You were getting in that school!



	J:	Oh, yeah! I told him, “I’m going in here. I don’t care what you say! We done walked eight miles.” He say, “Eight miles!” I say, “Yeah, eight miles! And then you tell us we can’t come in here? I’m sorry, but—I’m not sassing you, but I’m going in.” He looked at me. He say, “I’m going to let you in this time, but next time—.” “Next time too! Because we got all a long ways to walk. If I walk from here, I’m coming in this school.” He let us in. And it was a bunch of us, about seventeen head of us from the school here in LaCrosse.

	W:	Was Mr. Mebane an African American man, or was he a White man? J:	No, he was an African American man, he wasn’t White.

	W:	Because the schools were separated, back then right? J:	Yeah, it was all-Black school then.

	W:	Did you have any contact with any White students, or was it totally, totally—? J:	Well, after that year there, they were nice. Well it was two girls walking with us,

that were staying right not too far from where we was living. And they walked, too, just the two. I don’t know whether he let them in, because I said that.

Because he let some of them in, didn’t let them all in or whatever.



	W:	So, there were some White students attending?



	J:	There was two White with us. So I don’t know. It was an all-Black school. But we had a couple, yes, a few was in there.

	W:	Do you remember, did everyone seem to get along pretty well?



	J:	Yeah! Because we did. They walked with us. They had to pull the shoes off, and then walk with whatever kind of shoes they got on. We got close to the school,





we washed our feets and put on our shoes. And they did too. Because the boys washed your feet; down and then, the boys was really nice boys. They wasn’t like they is now. Because they’d help you. Just like, you get tired. they’d put they hands together, and let the ones that get tired, let them ride on they hands until they get—let them ride a while, then they put another one on they hands and let them walk. Boys was really nice boys then.

	W:	Wow that is nice.



	J:	But now, the boys, you can’t walk with. You can’t put your hand on one now. But it was different then. The boys wanted to get to school, and the parents would have tore them up if they said anything. So. We all went to school together with no problem.

	W:	Did you visit Gainesville much during that period of time of your life?



	J:	No, when my dad—when school was out, my dad would let us go to Gainesville.



Shop.



	W:	Was that a treat to go into Gainesville? It was nice to—



	J:	Yeah, we could go to Gainesville when he, catch the—go with him on the truck. And just shop around in Gainesville, and then somebody bring us back home.

	W:	And you liked that?



	J:	Yeah, I likeded going with about six girls. W:	Oh, so a bunch of you?

	J:	Yes! Oh, no. Never had to go by yourself. Never had. So we went, go to shopping together.

	W:	So when you were done with school, what was next after that?





	J:	Well after, before I got in eleventh—that was in eleventh grade—the year after that, I was studying at home. And then, that’s when I started working at—what was I doing? Oh, that was, school was out, and we was going walking; and we used to go to a spring this direction. That’s where I met my husband at. He was living here, but he stayed way out from us.

	W:	Where did you say you met him?



	J:	My husband living way out from here. So he started walking—well, he was going to school with us, but I didn’t like him.

	W:	Oh, so you were going to school with him.



	J:	Yeah, I was going to school with him. But I didn’t like him. [Laughter] W:	You guys didn’t get along, or you just didn’t like him?

	J:	No, I just didn’t like him. He didn’t like girls either. Then he didn’t like girls. So we go to school together. He never walked with us but a couple of times. I don’t know how he got to school, but he didn’t walk with us but a few times, but. We walked to school because we wanted to learn. But he was okay. Then after that, we started working together. We was picking strawberries in the summertime; school was out and we picked strawberries, English peas.

	W:	For a summer job?



	J:	So then, that was good. We made money, picking strawberries. And after we ate all the strawberries, then we picked strawberries

	W:	So, getting back to what you said, what you started doing after you got done with school, what were you doing then?





	J:	Well, that’s when I started working. Then, after that, I got married. Then after I got married, then we got us our own house. And then I stayed in that one. Then I had two girls. And that’s two the oldest two girls, I had Pearl and Jackie. So, I didn’t have any more until later; he had a big farm then, after that. So I didn’t work in the farm, because I stayed home with the kids.

	W:	So, you got married, and so what was your—? J:	I was eighteen years old when I got married.

	W:	What was your husband doing at that time?



	J:	He was working. He was working when I first—well after he quit school, he started somewhere with his dad. So then, he started coming up and going to church up here, then he started coming up going to church. So, that’s where I met him at. After we stopped going to school together, he started working with his dad on the farm. So then, he’d come up here every weekend, and he stayed way out from here. Way out by Santa Fe. So, he was, then we got married about—I was eighteen years old when I got married.

	W:	Eighteen years old. And he was working with his dad on farm. Was it his father’s farm, or whose—?

	J:	Yeah, it was his dad’s farm. His dad had a big farm.



	W:	His dad had a big farm. What were they growing out there?



	J:	Everything: peas, beets, tobacco, strawberries; everything on the farm. W:	And this farm was in?

	J:	Way back out, it’s about two miles from here. W:	So, pretty close?





	J:	Yeah, it’s close. But that’s where my husband had the farm at, before passed. He had his dad’s farm. And so, my boys have the farm now.

	W:	Oh, so the farm is still in the family? J:	Oh, yeah. Uh-huh.

	W:	And it’s still being cultivated today?



	J:	Yeah, my son the one who, he’s doing that.



	W:	One of your sons still runs the farm. What’s the son’s name that still runs the farm?

	J:	Johnnie L. Jones.



	W:	I would imagine that the farm, it stayed in your family’s hands this whole time. J:	Oh, yeah. After my husband’s father passed, so he turned it over to him.

	W:	And you guys have had it ever since? J:	What?

	W:	And you guys have had it ever since?



J:   Oh, had it ever since passed, my husband had it. So now, the boys have it. W:  Did your boys grow up working on the farm? That was people’s job, was—? [Exchange about ringing phone]

J:   My son does it. My daughters don’t work on no farm. [Laughter]



	W:	Okay, so, when they were younger did they work on the farm? Or was it never a girl’s place?

	J:	They picked strawberries, and something like that, but they didn’t work. You always hired somebody to do it.

	W:	Hired? So the farm was men’s work?





	J:	Yeah. But I likeded to work out there. W:	Picking strawberries and stuff?

	J:	Mmhm. That way, I can eat them all, and then I can work with them. When I got a stomachful, then I’m ready to work. I loveded picking strawberries.

	W:	Okay, so we’ll switch gears a little bit. I’d love for you to talk to me about the church that you’re involved in.

	J:	Oh! Yes, I will. My church, Bethel AME Church on 43rd.



	W:	Uh-huh. I saw something across the street that might have said Bethel AME Church; is that associated with it?

	J:	It’s off on 43rd, out that direction. On—it’s on 43rd. Do you know where that at? W:	Yes, ma’am.

	J:	Well, that’s the big church down there. The very big one, Bethel AME.



	W:	Bethel AME? How did you get involved—when did you become involved in Bethel AME?

	J:	Oh, from since I was small, I went to church. W:	This particular church?

	J:	Not that one. I ain’t been that one. I’ve been at that one ever since I was—the church right here, you seen the one right across there? I belonged to that before my husband had that church. My husband was a minister.

	W:	Your husband was a minister. At Bethel AME? J:	Yep.

	W:	When did he start doing that?





	J:	When he was eighteen years old—not no, wasn’t but twenty-two. No, I don’t know how old he was when he started becoming a minster. Because the first church he had, one of them outside High Springs. Then he had this one here. Because he build that church right there.

	W:	Okay. He built the church? J:	Right there. Mmhm.

	W:	Across the way?



	J:	Mmhm, right over there.



	W:	Wow. So he was the minister at the church. So you must have been really, really involved in the church.

	J:	You had to be. Yep, after that I was--I was thirty, twenty—thirty years old. Yeah, about thirty.

	W:	About thirty years old when he became the minister of Bethel AME?



	J:	Yep, it was AME church. He had several churches, but he passed before he got that one there. He had one in High Springs, one over here to Atlas, one in Windsor. You know where that at?

	W:	Yes, ma’am.



	J:	Well he had a big church there in Windsor. He had one in—near Williston, I can’t think the name of it. That was the last one he had out of town. So then, he come back to this church here. And so, he pastored that church for a long time, then they transferred him down to the Orlando district.

	W:	So he started a good number of churches in the area.





	J:	Yeah, mmhm. So, then we went to Orlando. So, we was down there ‘til he passed. For years; years, years. He pastored down there for—he built a church, he built to a couple of parcels down there.

	W:	So, you lived in Orlando, you said, for a good period of time? How old were you whenever you moved to Orlando?

	J:	Oh, must’ve about thirty-five. About thirty-five.



	W:	So, you left this area when you were about thirty-five to move to the Orlando area.

	J:	Yep. May have been a little earlier than thirty-five. Yeah, was about thirty-five. No I didn’t leave this area. We still lived here. We built a home up there. When you turn—when you turn to come this road here, there’s a house sitting over there.

That’s my house over there. Because that’s where we lived, but we all stayed out of town most of the time.

	W:	But your permanent residence was still here?



	J:	Yeah. I was there for weeks at a time. Sometimes we didn’t come home, but the kids went to school here. But I had to come home every weekend, because the kids had to go to school.

	W:	Why was it that you guys were at that church, not a church closer to your home? J:	Well, they transferred him down there.

	W:	The greater church organization said that was where they wanted him at.



	J:	Yeah, that’s where they wanted him at, so that’s where he stayed until he died.



Down there for twenty-nine years.





W:  So, tell me about what the churches meant to you. Because I would assume that you, with your husband being the pastor—that’s the correct term? A pastor? Or a minister?

J:   Yeah, he was a pastor.



W:   That you were pretty involved in the goings-on.



	J:	Yes I was. I loveded every part of it. All the different organizations in the church. I taught in all the different departments in the church.

	W:	Tell me about some of the things you taught, and some of the things you did in the church.

J:   Well, I taught Sunday school. I taught needful kids. I usually tried to keep up with the kids that didn’t know. I’d get a group of them in church, and teach them when there was the other group here. We had several groups in there of young people.

W:   You said you taught league for kids?



	J:	Yeah, we had to teach kids that—we have groups just like you have ten, this section have ten, and you have to teach different things to children who didn’t know.

	W:	What kind of—from the religion or—?



	J:	You had to teach them different grades. But they had their own books and things for church, to teach children. So, that’s what we did.

	W:	So, you really enjoyed teaching the children.



	J:	Oh I did! I enjoyed it. And they was—you have to teach them to have respect, and how to act. And if kids, if you don’t, they’ll tear up everything. So it was nice to have a bunch of kids. But I had my kids, too.





	W:	So, it was teaching the religion, and teaching how to behave J:	Yes, that’s right.

	W:	And you started doing this in your thirties?



	J:	Yep, I taught kids out there, too, when we was out there. Because when we was out to this church here, they transferreded him from this church to Orlando.

	W:	So this was around 1948. The late 1940s, early 1950s, whenever you were starting to work in the church teaching? That sound about right?

	J:	No, I was younger than that. I wasn’t forty-eight. I didn’t have any— W:	Well, 1948, not when you were forty-eight.

	J:	Oh, oh! I thought you said I was forty-eight! [Laughter] I said, “Well, no, I wasn’t that old!”

	W:	It was around the late 1940s.



	J:	Yeah, I was in my thirties, thirty-five, forty. Close to. Because I had all my kids when I was thirty-nine years old. I didn’t have any more kids.

	W:	Okay, so you stopped having kids when you were thirty-nine. Were these—what was the makeup of the church? Were they predominantly African American churches?

	J:	Yeah, they was. African-American churches. W:	Was there any White members of the church?

	J:	Well, we still got some to our church now. But they had a couple in there. They didn’t make any different, the group you was or whether were you at. If they come to that church, they just come on in and join the rest.

	W:	So it was an open door?





	J:	Yeah, you can come in. You don’t turn nobody away. See, we still, in our church now we got some in it. And it was one down the other Sunday. Ain’t but one God. Ain’t no two Gods, just one. So why you going to get a different God because you going to a different church? Churches should be the same. But they is the same.

	W:	Now, one of the things we’ve learned, and we’ve been trying to become more aware of in our class, is the race in relations in Florida in the early 1900s.

	J:	That’s happening.



	W:	And one of the things we became more aware of is that Florida, for people who haven’t studied the history as much, is perceived as being a moderate state; but from what we’ve learned, it sounds like in reality it wasn’t—it isn’t as moderate. Or it wasn’t, it isn’t—there was more friction than maybe what a lot of people currently believe. Do you find that to ring true? That you found that race relations in this area, and in Florida in general, were strained.

	J:	Yeah, they that way, still. Yeah it’s strange. But you got to try; I don’t care how they act, how they strange. I treat them all the same.

	W:	Do you remember as you were coming up—and it sounds like, I mean, a lot of the schools were separate when you were working, you were in the schools, and it sounds like the church, it sounds like there was some separation there, although you said you did had some people. At what points did you come in contact, that you found the two races that were separate in a lot of ways mixed together.

	J:	Well sometimes, they did mix together, and most of them they don’t. You take the—I don’t care where you go, you going to find some of them together. No





matter where you at, if you at a job they going find some, if it ain’t but one or two. They going come in, sit with you, and they going to join you and be nice. And some of them going to be hating. So you don’t, you don’t hate people because they don’t mingle with you. You still have to love them anyway.

	W:	Just try to get along.



	J:	Yeah. You got to get along with them. If they don’t want to get along with you, smile and go ahead on. You can’t make people do things. If they don’t like you, just speak to them and go ahead on. I don’t have a problem with it. I never have.

	W:	By and large, the communities were separate, but obviously, the two communities came together at jobs and different places.

	J:	Yep, you know in jobs, I got along with them fine. We worked together. I worked at Shands. Because you always worked together.

	W:	You worked together; you said you worked at Shands? J:	Yeah I worked at Shands with them.

	W:	Working relations were pretty—everyone got along pretty well? J:	Yeah. I mean, everywhere I worked, I got along with them.

	W:	Did you experience, in this area—I mean, I’m sure that you experienced individual instances where you had people that disliked you because of who you were. But did you find that was the widespread thing, or was that out of the norm?

	J:	Well, you find that everywhere you go. You going find somebody like that. So you don’t have to get upset because they don’t like you. You just go ahead on; if you want to speak to them, they don’t speak, go ahead on and speak anyway. I do





that now. Just like, they come by and they smile, you speak. If they don’t want to speak, they don’t take nothing off of you by not speaking. It don’t bother me what the ever they do or say, long as they don’t touch.

	W:	Yes, ma’am. I guess what I’m getting at is that, did you find in your experience that more people got along and kind of just co-existed than people who went out of their way to make things harder on other people, and more difficult? What was your experience?

J:   Well I think the more you get along with people, you don’t have to do what they do or say what they say. You can get along with them. If they don’t want to talk, don’t bother them; just talk right on. You don’t have to do what they do. And you don’t have to say the things that they say. But I got along with everybody.

W:   You got along with everyone. I believe it.



	J:	It didn’t bother me. I got along with them. When they come up, I was just as happy to see them. And some people I don’t know will come up, and they’ll talk, say, “You know what? You act just like you know me.” And I say, “You act like you know me, too!” But I don’t know them. But you keep on talking, you eventually find out you know one another. I don’t turn against nobody, I don’t care who they are. If they ain’t got nothing, I’m right with them. If they need something, and I can give it to them, I give it to them. Because the same way I got it; somebody give it to me. I always can share what I got to anybody. I told them, I don’t have much but if I got it, you welcome to it. If it any food I got you want to eat, come on and join. Whatever it is, you can eat it.





	W:	It sounds like you’ve really lived a life of going out of your way to try to help people.

	J:	Oh, I always try to help someone. I take clothes and carry out it there where they can give people, because a lot of people don’t have. And you know, sometime you have clothes too little or too big? Someone else can wear them. Long as you keep them nice and clean, they’ll take them. We have it to our church now, we have it Saturday coming. We have a sale for everybody come: food and clothes. The place is packed with people, White and Black, getting clothes and food. They got food to give away. That’s every month, they give away food in church—our church.

	W:	So you still attend church regularly?



	J:	Yep, I attend. They carry me to church every Sunday. W:	Every Sunday, you’re going to church.

	J:	Every Sunday.



	W:	So, you’ve been around this area in Florida for—you’ve seen more than I can imagine. Good and the bad. You know more than I could hope to know. You’ve lived an incredibly long life. Can you maybe go into how you’ve seen this area and the people change over the course of your life here?

	J:	Oh yeah, you can tell that. It used to be people right—take in this area here. You see everybody, you know everybody. And they was all together. But now, this so different. Right now, you don’t—I don’t see anybody now. The people I know, they still here, but I don’t never see them.

	W:	What do you mean by that?





	J:	I know—the people that lived down here, the houses down here, I know everybody down there. It used to be, they walk this road here, and they come by when I was down there. They come by, and you sit out in the yard, and you talk. But you don’t never have that no more. It’s a different, it’s different in them now. I don’t know whether they hate, but they just don’t have time. They don’t call you. Now, I have friends from the church, now; they’ll call, see how you doing. And when I don’t go to church, that’s when they be worried about you. I raised in this area for most of the time, and I knew everybody here. And we was all together.

We’d have picnics together. But now, you don’t see them unless you go to church, and they’re different people. I don’t know whether they think—I don’t know. I think they a little bit different.

	W:	What it sounds like to me is, what you’re saying is that there used to be more of a community.

	J:	Yes, it was.



	W:	People came together more, just to spend time together. J:	Yep. They did.

	W:	Now people are kind of in their own worlds. J:	They still here, though.

	W:	When did you start noticing this change? J:	Oh, for the last ten, fifteen years.

	W:	Ten or fifteen years?



	J:	Well, when we was—I guess it made a different, because we left here and was down out, down south for years and years. I imagine that made a difference.





Because we wasn’t here on Sundays, Saturdays, and Friday. So, we was gone for some time during the holidays; time like when school was out? We’d be gone for the whole week. And be gone for sometimes for a couple weeks, because the kids didn’t have to go to school. So, when my kids went to college, it was two, four went to college at one time. So the rest of the smaller kids, they came with me. So, they didn’t see us sometimes for months, sometimes. They didn’t know whether we were here or there; we was out of town most of the time. When we didn’t have to go to school, and when I didn’t have to work. So, we was out of town. So, I thought about that made a different, because I didn’t see them as often. And I didn’t go to church here, either. So, that made a difference. Because I was always at the church over here, or the one in Gainesville. So now, when we went out of town to Orlando, we was down there most of the time. I knew everybody down there. I knew everybody here, but I never seen them often, because I didn’t get home maybe for two, three days, maybe a week. And we come home at night. So, I thought about that made a different. Then quite naturally, it made a different, because you don’t see a person a long time, you slip your memories. So I figured that’s what happened, because a lot of people I know that I used to talk and use to call on the phone and talk to them? They’re here right on, but I don’t never see them. So it make a different. So, I think that’s what made a different. The people you don’t be around often, I don’t see them often. I haven’t seen anybody in a couple weeks since I been here. They used to come around, but now, since I’m being home a lot, I don’t never still don’t see them. Unless I see them when I go to church, now. Then out of my church, they’ll





call to find out how you’re doing, and they’ll come out here. But the people around here, you don’t see them. That make a different, because you away from them, and they got other things to do, and so they ain’t around you either. So, that make a different. I’m not saying they forgot about you; they just don’t be around too often. When it used to be you could walk from here on the weekend, we used to walk down this road and sit down and talk to different one, but we don’t do that no more. That make a different. Because people easily forget. But I don’t forget, but they do. When I see somebody, I don’t forget them.

	W:	Uh-huh. Okay, we can maybe change gears a little bit, here. Did you have a chance to vote in this last election?

	J:	Yes, I did.



	W:	Do you mind me asking who you voted for?



	J:	Who I voted for? Now, I know I voted for the president. [Laughter] W:	That’d be the one I’d like to know about. Who’d you vote for?

	J:	Obam—what is his funny name, here? [Laughter] W:	Barack Obama?

	J:	You know, his name so long, I couldn’t hardly get it. “Rocko Bama.” That’s the foolishest name I ever heard tell of! [Laughter] But I read about him all the time, though.

	W:	Uh-huh. Does the election of Barack Obama have any personal significance or meaning thing to you?

	J:	No, it not no different than the others. But I’m just glad we got a president. I’m affected by it. I’m glad we got a Black president.





	W:	You’re glad we got a Black—



	J:	We did get a Black president in the history. So, that’s all. He ain’t no different than the other presidents. But he one thing about him, he just Black, that’s all. [Laughter]

	W:	Yes. But coming from you, who’s had an opportunity to see—I mean, you were around through the height of the Civil Rights Movement, prior to the Civil Rights Movement, and the years following that. I don’t want to put words in your mouth, but I imagine having that perspective, that having an African American make it to the White House, would—tell me, I mean, does—having that perspective, do you see this in more of a monumental way, or is it just, you’re just happy to—?

	J:	Yeah, at least he’ll maybe make a change. Something might change. Everything ain’t going change. But it’s something that going change by him being the president. Something going change. Everything can’t, you can’t change everything. But he, some things he going change. So that’s one thing. If he don’t change it, that’s fine with me. But he going change a lot of things. It’s going take time. Now, whatever he change, no matter what it is, it’s okay with me! [Laughter] Whatever he change! For the good or for the bad. That doesn’t make any difference. Because he can’t win all of them. He can’t do everything. Got too many presidents been a president, and they didn’t change nothing. So now, maybe this one’ll change, and maybe not. He might not change things. Just one thing: I just hope they don’t kill him, that’s all. That’s all I want. Just don’t kill him. Let him stay like he is. You don’t have to be a president to be killed, he can be





anybody. Nope, I just hope he be use what he is. If he can change anything, change it. If he can’t, let it alone. One man can’t change the world.

	W:	This is true. So, I want to go over a few facts to make sure I get them right, just for prosperity. You had how many brothers and sisters, again? You yourself, you had how many?

	J:	Seven.



	W:	Seven brothers and sisters? J:	Mmhm.

	W:	And then, how many children did you have? J:	I had fourteen.

	W:	Fourteen children.



	J:	I’ve got eleven living.



	W:	And which one of your sons is still working on the farm? J:	Johnnie L. Johnnie L. Jones. He live in High Springs.

	W:	Now, I don’t have too many more questions for you, but I know there’s probably things that I would find interesting to hear. Do you have any stories of this area, or anything in particular? This project, this tape, is going to go into an archive. And it’s going to be there for, you know, years and years to come. And we expect, and we already have, historians that come to this archive to listen to these tapes, to learn things about this time.

	J:	You know what? You can come back again. W:	I can come back again, yes.





	J:	Yeah. Because you know what? Maybe I can give you more of a lot of things that I’m thinking about, that I think about, later? Because right now, I never did this before. So now, you get more comfortable next time. I seen you today, and another time I’ll see you again, and you more—you know, you think of a lot of things that done run through your mind now. It’ll come back to your mind, and you better off the second time.

	W:	Okay. So, nothing at this moment, but maybe give you some time, and we can talk again.

	J:	Yes, that’s right!



	W:	That sounds good to me.



	J:	Yep. Because right now, you know, I think about—I was thinking about my cousins over in Waldo side, that my mother had relatives over there, and I say, “You know what?” I got relatives everywhere. Just to think, now. I got to—if I think around, I got ‘em [whistles] like that. My mother’s—well, they still here. They old, but they still over there. And since I haven’t been over there in a while, I might could get in touch with them, and see how they doing. But you know, a lot of times, well, I go to church and talk to people, say, “Well, this one over here is still over there.” But that’s some of my relatives over there. And a lot of time, if you don’t think, you don’t pass by them, you don’t even know them. But if you don’t, nobody going say something, or you don’t visit them—I don’t visit them, but I usually call people. And it’s good to know ahead of time—I know such-and-such a one, I made a call last night. I said, “Girl, where have you been?” Say, “Child, I been trying to get in touch with you for years!” I say, “Nuh-uh, I ain’t that old!”





[Laughter] But it’s good the second time around. Your head open up. There a lot of things that you really know. Now, there’s things that I know what happened twenty years ago, or forty years ago; it done ring a bell. But next time, you just think about it. “You know what? I didn’t tell him all of this.” So, next time you come by. Yeah.

	W:	Sounds good. We’ll get this in the files, and then we’ll talk about getting another meeting going.

	J:	Yeah! That’d be better.



	W:	Well, thank you very much for spending this time with me. I really do appreciate it.

	J:	Yeah. Yep, I really would. Next time you come back, my head’ll be lighter. I ain’t drunk nothing but water! [Laughter] You can come back and everything will be better.

	W:	All right, wonderful. Thank you very much again. [End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, August 4, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019