AAHP 085; Lock; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 085 Mable Lock

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Marna Weston on June 12, 2010

9 minutes | 8 pages



Abstract: Mable Lock was interviewed on June 12, 2010 by Marna Weston at the Armstrong High School 1964 class reunion. Ms. Lock was one of the leaders in organizing the reunion for the high school and this was their third since 1993. She remembers her family and where they all grew up, and briefly talks about what she remembers as a student at Armstrong High School. Ms. Lock mentions David Pugh and Andrew Wallace as both being inspiring educators.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]



Standards

	SS.8.A.1.7 View historic events through the eyes of those who were there as shown in their art, writings, music, and artifacts.

	SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.





































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 085

Interviewee: Mable Lock Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date of Interview: June 12, 2010



	W:	This is Marna Weston with the Oral History Program at the University of Florida. I am speaking to Mable Williams Lock, a member of the Armstrong High Class of 1964. Ms. Lock, thank you very much for talking to me today.

	L:	You are quite welcome. I’m glad to be here.



	W:	What does this high school reunion mean to you?



	L:	It is an opportunity to get to see people I have not seen in a long time. W:	Uh-huh.

	L:	An opportunity the fellowship wants me in with my classmates to just share what we have been doing for the past forty-six years.

	W:	Is this something that you have been involved with before today? Have you been to more of these? This is my mother’s first one so that’s why I’m asking.

	L:	Oh, yes. We had one last year and we had one in 1993. W:	Uh-huh.

	L:	So this is the third one we’ve had.



	W:	What encourages you to do something like this?



	L:	A couple of my friends and I got together, Padot, Chris, Maddy, and myself. We all work from the county schools. And we would see each other periodically and as we would see each other we would always say, “Well have you seen”-and we would name some of the other classmates. And everybody would say no. And so then somebody said, “Well why not get together? Let’s have a class reunion.” So this has been a problem since we’ve been out of school. So that’s when we decided to form the committee and get our reunion going.







	W:	Have you had any surprises since you’ve been here to do this?



	L:	No, not any. Most people have been very, very cooperative. Most people feel just the way we felt and they wanted to get together and share what’s going on.

	W:	Personal surprises, I mean. Have you been surprised with looking at the mirror image of yourself from forty-six years ago-

	L:	Yes.



	W:	Seeing pictures from your yearbook, seeing the people you were with.



	L:	Yes. All of us were really skinny when we were in high school. [laughter] Now they’re not any skinny people in this class. We are all heavier than we were.

	W:	Well you look terrific. L:	Well, thank you.

	W:	I would like to ask you some background questions. Could you spell your full- name please?

	L:	M-A-B-L-E. Williams, W-I-L-L-I-A-M-S. Lock, L-O-C-K.



	W:	And what is your date of birth? L:	I was born May 7, 1946.

	W:	And where were you born?



	L:	I was born right here in Cumberland County.



	W:	Okay. Were you born at home or were you born in a hospital?



	L:	I was born by midwife at my mother’s home. And that was in the Beard community. And Beard from where we are now, in Fayetteville, is about ten miles north of Fayetteville, so the Eastover community.

	W:	Okay and East Over is where the high school was.







L:  That’s it. Uh-huh. W:  Okay, I’m so hot. L:  That’s correct.

W:   Could you tell me who your mother and father are?



L:  My mother was Mary Junis Melvin Williams. And my father was Jerome Franklin Williams.

W:  And where were your mother and father from? L:  They were both from Cumberland County also. W:  Okay.

L:   My mother was down in Cedar Creek which is a part of Cumberland County. And my father was from the Beard area.

W:  Okay. Now what about your mother’s mother and father? What do you remember of them?

L:   My- ask your question again for me.



W:   Can you tell me about your mother’s mother and father?



	L:	Okay my grandmother and my grandfather were from the Cedar Creek area. W:	Okay and what are their names?

	L:	Martin J. Melvin and Mable Melvin. W:	Okay.

	L:	I was named after my grandma.



	W:	Okay. Now do you know anything about your grandparent’s parents on your mother’s side?

	L:	Absolutely nothing.







	W:	Okay so let’s go to your father’s side for a second. L:	Okay.

	W:	Who were your father’s parents?



	L:	My grandparents on my father’s side- my grandmother was Lizzie Williams. And my grandfather was James Williams.

	W:	And where were they from?



	L:		They were from- my grandmother was from Eastover. My grandfather was from Florida.

	W:	Floyd? Foy?



	L:	Florida.



	W:	Oh from Florida. Okay I thought you were telling me- L:	Uh-huh.

	W:	Do you know what part of Florida? L:	I have no clue.

	W:	Okay.



	L:	I have no clue.



	W:	Can you tell me about your earliest education? Where did you first go to school?



	L:	I attended Armstrong High School from first grade right on through the twelfth grade.

	W:	Okay and Minister Pugh was here today. Was he one of your instructors?



	L:	He was definitely one of my instructors. He was my coach from the eighth-grade year to the twelfth-grade year. And he also taught my fiscal education from the ninth-grade year through the twelfth-grade year.







	W:	Okay. Who was the teacher who impressed you the most when you were in school?

	L:	I was impressed the most with my sixth-grade teacher. And his name was Andrew Wallace.

	W:	And what was the subject?



	L:	At that time there was no particular subject; they taught everything in the sixth grade. So he was accountable for Math, English, Writing, we did everything in his class. And he was really the person that inspired me to go into education.

Because he had a class that was set up so that you could do a lot of hands-on activities and I enjoyed hands-on activities.

	W:	Uh-huh.



	L:	So he was my most inspirational teacher.



	W:	What is your most significant memory from high school?



	L:	From high school I remember most playing basketball. I was always involved in sports; I loved basketball. I made the varsity team when I was in the eighth grade and I played from eighth grade right on through twelfth grade.

	W:	Did you have a good team? L:	We were excellent.

	W:	Uh-huh.



	L:	Yes we were excellent. W:	Who was your main rival?

	L:	My main rival was Esmooth and Red Springs. I can’t remember the specific— I think it was Red Springs High School.







W:



L:



W:



L:

Uh-huh.



I think it was Red Springs High School.

Okay so every year they were the team that you had to go through. They were the team that we really had to beat.

W:

Uh-huh.

L:

To say we were good.

W:

How many times did you get them?

L:

We got them three out of five years I believe.

W:

Okay. Did you get them your senior year?

L:

No.

W:

And that was their Boar War, wasn’t it?

L:

That was it. [laughter]

W:

What do you remember about that game?

L:

What do I remember most? Crying, crying, crying because I was so hurt and let



down. We really wanted to win that game.

W:

Who was your coach?

L:

Coach Pugh. David Pugh.

W:

So he was also the girls’ basketball coach?

L:

He was the girls’ basketball coach. Uh-huh, yes.

W:

Now can I ask about your family; do you have children? Are you married?

L:

I am married to Roy Lock. I have two sons, Todd Lock and Antoine Lock.

W:

Okay did Todd and Antoine go on to become teachers or what did they do?







L:  No, neither of them taught because they went in service- Air Force. And Antoine truck drives. Neither one of them wanted to do teaching professionally for some reason.

	W:	Uh-huh. As you think back on this experience and seeing people you haven’t seen for forty-six years, can you imagine talking to you as you are today to yourself back then? What would you say to yourself back then with the experiences and your life that you’ve had to looking forward to the future? What advice would you give yourself knowing what was to come?

	L:	You know what? I don’t think I would give myself any advice because life has just been good. So I’ve enjoyed my life. I really have enjoyed it and I don’t think I would change anything about it. I wouldn’t give myself any advice because I believe you learn by your mistakes and if you don’t make any you haven’t learned anything.

	W:	Uh-huh.



	L:	So I’m pleased; real pleased.



	W:	What’s the biggest mistake that you think you made that you would share?



	L:	The biggest mistake I have made- probably is not going on and getting my masters after I got my B.S.

	W:	And what’s the biggest joy in your life that you’ve had so far?



	L:	The biggest joy in my life is being married for thirty-one years and having two fine sons and serving God. [laughter] I can’t forget that; almighty God.

	W:	Ms. Lock, I can’t thank you enough on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida for taking time out of this reunion of your







classmates when you could be speaking to them to have a few words. And closing the interview I just want to again thank you and give you the opportunity to say anything you would like to say, you now, a reflection on the interview or an observation on this process or anything else and when you finish your comments that will conclude the interview.

	L:	Oh I want to say thank you for the interview I enjoyed it and I’m really glad you came along with your mother. I hadn’t seen her in a while and it’s always good to meet family of people that you went to school with. Thank you and congratulations on your work.

	W:	Thank you very much. L:	Uh-huh.





[End of Interview]



Transcribed by: Liz Gray, April 25, 2013



Audio edited by: Anna Jimenez, April 30, 2013 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, June 22, 2021