AAHP 074A; Yarbrough; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 074A Keith Yarbrough African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Matthew White on September 5, 2009 26 minutes | 15 pages



Abstract: This interview was conducted at the 2009 University of Florida Association of Black Alumni reunion. Keith Yarbrough grew up in Rockledge, Florida, and attributes attending UF to an opportunity that he had to see the campus when he was in ninth grade. He explains the decision-making process that led to his majoring in Pharmacy.

Mr. Yarbrough describes his experience at UF as very positive and empowering, though he discusses a lack of Black faculty and an interest in seeing UF deepen its recruiting efforts to attract and retain top students from diverse backgrounds. He talks about his family, and emphasizes some of the changes he sees in UF between the time he attended in 1976-1981 and the time of the interview. He also recalls the protests surrounding the naming of the O’Connell Center on the UF campus.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 074A

Interviewee: Keith Yarbrough Interviewer: Matthew White Date: September 5, 2009



	W:	Okay. If you could again, your name? Y:	Keith Yarbrough.

	W:	And if you could, just tell me a little bit about when you were at University of Florida, what you studied?

Y:  I started in 1976, summer quarter of 1976, on graduating from Rockledge High. Two years of the pre-pharmacy curriculum, and then years three through five in the College of Pharmacy. Graduated in June of 1981.

W:  Okay. You’re from Rockledge, Florida. Y:  Rockledge, Florida

W:  I’m afraid I’ll have to ask you where that is; I’m not sure I know where Rockledge is.

Y:  Brevard County. Rockledge is one of the inland communities from Cocoa Beach. W:  Okay, yeah. There we go, I know where that is. And what brought you to the

University of Florida?



	Y:	You know, that’s a good question. Based on just how it kind of happened, what I recall was my mother, who at that time was a school administrator for an elementary school in Brevard County—during the summer of probably maybe about my ninth grade year, she attended a conference along with a couple of her colleagues. And my friend and I had the occasion to visit for two days while she was participating in the conference. And during that time, we just kind of had free rein of the university.

W:   I’m going to move a little closer to you, if you don’t mind.





	Y:	Okay.



	W:	I should have warned you about that too. [Laughter]



	Y:	That’s good. So during that time, my friend and I kind of had a chance to walk around and explore the university as basically ninth graders in the summertime. And we kind of said to ourselves, “Wow, if this is what college is like, maybe we’ll think about this kind of thing.”

	W:	What was it about it that impressed you?



	Y:	The freedom. The fact that the people that we had a chance to observe could seemingly transform from being free young adults without a care in the world to ten minutes later being serious students preparing for their futures. So it was that kind of environment that was very impressive. We decided at that time that we probably would want to pursue something like that. And this place is a very impressive place. So probably, to sum it up, what kind of lead me to being a student at the University of Florida was being exposed to it at an early age.

	W:	Now, you mentioned your mother was a school administrator. Can I assume from that that you were not the first—they went to college, or at least, your mother went to college? Tell me a little bit about your family.

	Y:	My mother has a degree from Florida A&M University, a bachelor’s degree. And she also earned her Master’s degree from Columbia University in New York City. My father completed high school, and that’s all; was in the military. My mother and her sisters were all educated and educators. So yes, they were college- educated.

	W:	Was your mother steering you toward Florida A&M?





	Y:	No, not at all. In fact, it was mentioned that that was a great place to go, and it was one of the places that I indeed considered, along with a few other places. But I think that initial impression of the University of Florida kind of stayed with me. Despite opportunities to maybe go out of state or to stay in state, this place just kind of stayed number one.

	W:	And once you got here, how did you find the University of Florida? Welcoming?



Cold?



	Y:	I found it very welcoming. And it was, indeed, a great experience. Initially, it was a great experience. I think that my level of—I was prepared for it. I had some friends who had attended in the years before me, so I had a pretty good support group when I got here of kids who were a little bit older, who told me what it was going to be like, who showed me around, introduced me to their friends. The transition from high school to college, for me, was pretty positive.

	W:	If I can back up here, you used the phrase “prepared for,” and “told you what it was going to be like.” Can you fill in some blanks there? Prepared for what, and what did they tell you it was going to be like?

	Y:	Well, the main thing was that college itself was something that, it can be lots of fun. Because you have lots of freedom. But you indeed have to be careful to concentrate on what you’re there for, and that’s to handle your schoolwork, and to prepare for things that are on the horizon in terms of schoolwork. Being a pretty okay student, that wasn’t a surprise, that you have to really concentrate on being a student before concentrating on having fun. In terms of being prepared,





they also prepared me for the social aspect of college, and that that can be kind of overwhelming sometimes if you’re not careful.

	W:	Did you join any clubs, become active in things?



	Y:	Other than participating in intramural sports and a little bit of dormitory politics, not too much. Not too much on an organized level. I always participated in terms of getting involved with the club campaigns on campus for student government, leadership positions, but never really ran and became a part of that. So, just from the outside, kind of very involved in things like that. Attended a lot of sporting events, and kind of participated in a lot of things, but no sororities, no fraternities anything like that.

	W:	Well, you may have gotten involved with sororities, but somebody else can see about those questions! [Laughter]

	Y:	Oh, no.



	W:	Let’s see, I threw myself off there. What about before you came to University of Florida? What was your education like?

	Y:	I was always very involved in high school. Participated in sports and student government also. I was part of Student Government throughout high school. Just the usual clubs, the Beta Club, the sports, things like that.

	W:	Did you come to UF planning to be a pharmacist?



	Y:	Well actually, I was pretty much decided. I was kind of torn between Pharmacy and Chemical Engineering when I first got to campus. Probably after the first term, I pretty much decided to go in one direction over the other.

	W:	And what attracted you to Pharmacy?





	Y:	Good question. And that’s something that I’ve been asked several times. Both fields were appealing, Engineering and Pharmacy, to me, as I tried to make the decision which direction to go in. Pharmacy had more people interaction, and that kind of made the decision.

	W:	And I assume—have you remained a pharmacist ever since you graduated?



	Y:	Yes. I graduated in 1981, and I’ve been in pharmacy since then. I’m with a national chain, CVS. And I’ve been with that company for a long time.

	W:	I assume that you’ve been active—well, tell me—active since you’ve graduated in alumni groups, or is this the only one?

	Y:	I’m not one of the hundred-percent active folks that was described in our meeting, but I’ve been somewhat active. I participate a little bit, but not as much as I should. I’ve been pretty involved in my community, but not that much involved with alumni groups. Actually, it’s kind of—there’ve been ups and downs with alumni groups. There have been periods of time when I participated a lot, and then periods of time when I’ve kind of not participated that much.

	W:	Now, one of the interesting topics I got into a discussion with, with the previous person who sat in that chair, was the difference between when she was in here at UF, which was the [19]60s, and her daughter was in UF in the [19]90s. Not only the experience of women here at UF—which, she was aghast that men were allowed in the dorms—but also for African Americans here at UF, and how much it’s changed. Now, you’ve come—you seem to land smack in middle of those two extremes, so how would you characterize your experience?





	Y:	Actually, I don’t really have any significant negatives to contribute to any discussion on a subject like that. My experience was very positive. There were things that kind of would make one think, and kind of highlight the fact that this is a university that definitely has a low level of African Americans in positions such as professors, and department heads, and things like that. One significant thing that I encountered was when I first thought about applying to pharmacy school— and I relate this story on numerous occasions—the fact that, at that time, most colleges had maybe a faculty member who was in charge of what they call “minority recruitment,” or helping make the transition for minority students a little bit easier.

	W:	The school at large or just the Pharmacy School?



	Y:	For the different colleges. Like, College of Pharmacy, College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. Each college seemed to have an individual or a few individuals in a position like that. So when I first indicated to an advisor in my first year that I was interested in pursuing Pharmacy, he immediately told me that, “Well, there’s a person in the College of Pharmacy that you should talk to. He’s the minority advisor,” something like that. I thought that was pretty good. That was pretty thoughtful that person would do that. But when I got there, what was interesting was that this person was not a professor who happened to be Black. His name was Doctor Goldstein. It was pretty interesting that, on that faculty, there was not a single Black professor who could assume that role of making the transition, or providing advice for African American students from that angle. Which I thought that was interesting, and it clearly pointed out the fact that at a university like the





University of Florida, there are very, very few Black professors. And that’s one thing that stood out throughout my time here, that that is definitely something that hopefully will change, because I’m sure this university can attract top-notch individuals across the board, from athletics, to academics, to leadership positions. It can be done, and hopefully our university will concentrate on that.

And I thought about that way back then. But overall, my experience was definitely a positive experience. I don’t have any—not too many negatives to report.

	W:	Okay. Now, I assume that since you did ultimately graduate, that Dr. Goldstein was very helpful.

	Y:	No, he was pretty much invisible. W:	Oh, was he?

	Y:	Uh-huh. [Laughter]



	W:	What was his role, then?



	Y:	His role was to—well, I guess in terms of what that also indicates is that there were not that many Black students in the College of Pharmacy. There was really not that much for the individual to do, in terms of how they described his position. But I guess, maybe in that time, it was just something that every college had to have. But now, from my point of view, that individual really didn’t do that much.

He pretty much—after one meeting, I never saw him again.



	W:	Okay. Now, have you stayed in touch with the School of Pharmacy, like get the alumni newsletter? I don’t know that much about the—I confess, I’m from Liberal Arts, so I don’t know much.





	Y:	Yes, I do. I do. I keep in touch, and in fact, just last month I went to a—the College of Pharmacy puts on conferences sometimes. Well, quite often. And I went to a two-day conference in Orlando that the College of Pharmacy put on with different concepts of continuing education. So yes, I definitely keep in touch with the College of Pharmacy.

	W:	So, have you seen change in that regard, in terms of African American professors?

	Y:	I have not seen that much. Have not seen that much. I have tried to keep up with that, and I’ve not seen that much. Now, I do think the number of students has increased, but I do realize that there is much competition across the nation, and even in the state of Florida, for those students. So to a certain degree, that’s understandable. But I do want to see our university do more in terms of attracting and retaining top students from whatever background they come.

	W:	Sure, sure. And what about the pharmacy profession in general? Have you seen any—I don’t know. I admit to ignorance about the pharmacy profession.

	Y:	In terms of—?



	W:	In terms of minority representation, welcomeness, things like that.



	Y:	The profession is a great profession to go into. But no, the truth is—actually, the numbers have increased in pharmacy with Black graduates of colleges of pharmacy. But what’s shown the most market increase in terms of ethnicity in pharmacy has been the pharmacists from—foreign pharmacists, from different countries. From Middle East, from Asian nations. There’s definitely been a great increase in those numbers.





W:   They would be educated elsewhere, or out of the country, and then move here?



Y:  Sometimes but no, there are a lot in colleges of pharmacy in the United States also.

W:   Is there much tension there?



Y:   I don’t think so, no. Not that I’ve noticed.



W:  Just, I think, from the pharmacy, and they seem to be well-adjusted? It’s a nice picture. You know, it’s a nice picture for America. And things working very well together.

Y:   Yeah, yeah. Definitely. Definitely.



	W:	In terms of your family, siblings who went to college?



	Y:	No, I’m an only child, so not that. But no, I wasn’t the first. The first from my immediate family, but no. Cousins, relatives; a lot of educated. My mother and her family definitely come from a background of educated individuals.

	W:	Do you return to campus often?



	Y:	Yes. I of course come to quite a few of the games, both football and basketball.



And now, for the last four years, my wife and I have had a special reason to come back to campus because our daughter’s been a student here. Our daughter’s been a student, and she graduated in May.

	W:	Congratulations.



	Y:	Thank you very much. She’s doing well, so that’ll—but no, we’ve always come back to the games, and for events on campus.

	W:	And do you talk to your daughter at all? Do you compare experiences at the University of Florida?





	Y:	Oh, all the time.



	W:	And what would you say were the most significant changes since you were here?



Historians are always interested in change.



	Y:	I’ll have to take some time here, because there—what I’m trying to let her know is that there haven’t been—I mean, appearance-wise, there’ve been changes.

There are brand-new buildings all the time, being put up. But at the time that I was here, which was 1976 through 1981, University of Florida was always known as a very tough school to succeed at. At that time, there was, even though there are different degrees of difficulty in terms of gaining admission, it was tough to get into the University of Florida in 1976. Of course, it’s extremely tough to get in now, but the overall philosophy seems to be the same. And I don’t notice that many philosophical differences in the university, but of course there are always little cute differences in how students handle things, the differences in the dorm visitation policies. The students didn’t routinely have cars until maybe after the sophomore year. A lot of them did. I did, but I never thought it was necessary.

But now, students want to come in with—and live off campus year one. And want to have a car from day one. So things like that have changed, but the overall philosophy of the university, I haven’t seen that many changes. It’s still a place that strives, and successfully so, to be a premier university academically. Now, of course, there have been big changes in sports. No doubt about it. Success in terms of football and basketball was not what students now look at success in football and basketball.

	W:	Explain that.





	Y:	Success was basically—in football, a successful season was basically beating Florida State, and maybe a bowl trip. Now it’s changed. [Laughter]

	W:	Yeah, now it’s championship or die. [Laughter]



	Y:	Yeah. In fact, during my time here, my second year here there was the winless season, which was a zero, ten, and one, which most students who are in school now can’t even think of something like that. Basketball games were at what was called the Alligator Alley, and there was never a crowd unless Kentucky came to town.

	W:	Oh, I didn’t know there was a rivalry.



	Y:	No, not a rivalry. It’s just that Kentucky was always the king. W:	Oh, I see!

	Y:	So students would go to the games. Never a line, never a problem. I think tickets were like, maybe two dollars with a season ticket package, or just walk in. But the only big game was Kentucky. Otherwise, maybe three or four thousand students; we’d all kind of take our books and pretend to study during the game. And every now and then, there would be an upset. But now, the expectations are different with the University of Florida sports programs. And that’s great.

	W:	I’ve got to admit, when I was first was coming here, you know, you visit the various campuses. There was some identity issues, because the basketball team had won two championships and people seemed to worry that it might become a basketball town. [Laughter] Actively worrying about this! And I thought that was a fascinating, fascinating problem.





	Y:	It was. But I think it’s safe to say that the University of Florida will always be, if a label has to be attached, that football will always be first.

	W:	I can’t—yeah, it takes decades to—



	Y:	It’s a way of life. It’s not only University of Florida, but it’s the Florida culture.



	W:	Absolutely. Absolutely. Well, I’m finished here. I’m certainly open to anything you’d like to share that you feel like—an event or something from your college years you’d like to share, or involvement with the alumni. Anything?

	Y:	Well, one thing I often tell my daughter and her peers when they go to—I was here during the time that the O’Connell Center was built. And that’s something that used to kind of bridge our era to their era. And when I’m talking to her friends, the location where the O’Connell Center currently is was a field they used to use in springtime for a big carnival. It was usually held, seemingly when school was out, like during Spring Break a lot of years, for some reason. A lot of students stayed in town and attended. And then after the okay was given to build the new basketball arena, a lot of the students protested the fact that it would be named the O’Connell Center.

	W:	Why was that?



	Y:	Because, as a judge, Stephen C. O’Connell was the Student Body President, but he became a Supreme Court Justice. As a Justice, he was one of the ones who wanted to prevent Black students from entering University of Florida Law School. A lot has happened since then. I guess he saw the error of his ways, and all kind of things like that happened, but that was one of the most interesting times during my time here, when students got involved—both Black and White got involved—





in the protest over naming the building after Stephen C. O’Connell. It’s interesting. It happened. It was named after him. But that was one of the things that kind of shows how students did get very involved with causes during that time. And that’s one of the things that I try to encourage students to do now, get involved in something.

	W:	Now, were you involved in that particular—?



	Y:	Involved, not as a student—like, as an elected campus officer or part of student government—but as a student, a lot of us got involved. Holding the signs up, and writing letters, and protesting, and voicing opposition, things like that. So, it was interesting. It never got violent, never got unruly, but there was definitely opposition to that.

	W:	Were these protests sponsored by anybody?



	Y:	Not really, just students kind of found out what the plan was, and decided to approach whoever had that responsibility—the legislature I believe it was, who had to vote on the naming of it—and voice the fact that that wasn’t something everybody agreed with. For a lot of us college students, that was our first time getting involved in a cause like that.

	W:	And that was what year you were here?



	Y:	That was, I think the first year of the O’Connell Center was probably either 1980 or [19]81. So, all this happened around maybe [19]78, [19]79, something like that.

	W:	Okay. And then, did that become a formative experience? Did you then get involved in other causes?





	Y:	I’ve always been pretty involved in my community, but not necessarily as a result of that experience. But maybe for some people as a result of that experience, they realized that they can use energies like that to identify with something that they felt was important. But I always thought it was important to get involved in things like that, and to voice opposition—or voice support, if necessary. But it was just one of those experiences that I think a lot of people will never forget.

	W:	Sure. Were there any other here on campus while you were here? Y:	Any other big protests like that?

	W:	Big protests, big causes? Or minor.



	Y:	Not that I can recall. Maybe with time I can recall some, but nothing that really stands out that much. Not really, it was pretty much just normal day-to-day student activity. There was always something—and one thing that hasn’t changed, I’ve noticed, is—now that you mention it—Gator Growl, the pep rally before the homecoming game. I noticed how sometimes when guests come, people start protesting after a guest is here because they’re too R-rated, or too profanity-laced in their performances. The same thing used to happen then. I remember we had Bob Hope one year. And then a few years later, there was Robin Williams. So the Gator Growl guests—it always kind of goes up and down. Always somebody kind of family-oriented, and then next time it’s going to be somebody pretty non-family-oriented. So, things like that haven’t changed.

Experiences like the famous people coming to Gator Growl and performing, those were also memorable experiences.

	W:	Okay. Well, thank you very much for your time.





	Y:	All right. [End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, August 18, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019