AAHP 673; Powell and Lawrence; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 673 Essie Powell and Roberta Lawrence 7-6-2019 Interviewed by Ryan Morini on July 6, 2019

24 Pages



Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; Pensacola, Florida; environmental racism]



AAHP 673

Interviewee: Essie Powell and Roberta Lawrence Interviewer: Ryan Morini

Date: July 6, 2019



	M:	This is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. It is July 6, 2019, and I am here in Pensacola in the Wedgewood Community Center with–if you would like to introduce yourselves so…

	P:	Okay, my name is Essie Powell, and I live here in this community.



	L:	I’m Roberta Lawrence, and I have lived here since 1963. Moved here April the 17th, 1963, and I have been here ever since and loved every moment of it except when the pits started bothering us. So my husband, he was a fighter of the pits, and he died. So, that leave me, and I have heart problems. Now, I don’t know if that’s from the pits or what, but sometimes I can’t hardly breathe. But, I still love it in Wedgewood.

	P:	Isn’t that nice? Yeah. L:	I still love it here.

	P:	I’m just trying to get away if I can because, see, what it is I live so close. I’m right at that gate. I’m right there at the thing. It’s just right up on me there, and, if I could get away without giving my house away like they want me to do, I would leave.

	L:	You would?



	P:	Oh, yes.



	L:	Well, I don’t know if I would.



	P:	See, you live farther away. I live right at the mouth of that place. L:	Yeah, you right at the pit.





	P:	And, when it rain, the water comes down because they built it up. Then, when it rain, it washes all that dirt right down past my house, and sometimes it goes into my driveway from that pit. Well, let me say landfill.

	L:	You need to move then.



	P:	Yeah. Yes, I would love to.



	L:	Anyway, I’ve loved every minute I’ve been out here except for the smell of the pits and things like that. I’ve loved it. It’s been a nice place for the kids to grow up. When I moved here, they were little kids. My son was five months old. My baby was five months old. Deborah was seven, and Sharon was five, I think. Five, seven, and one month old when I moved here. Now, he’s fifty-six years old. [Laughter] Isn’t that something?

	P:	Yes, you been here a long time.



L:  We were the only street to come down through Wedgewood–Wenonah Street. They didn’t have any other street to come down through Wedgewood when we moved there. They had Alfonso Street going that way and Wenonah.

	P:	Baker?



	L:	No, they didn’t have Baker.



P:  They didn’t have Baker during that time? I just don’t know during that time when they put those streets through there.

	L:	And, the office was up there on Alfonso when we moved in.



	P:	Right. Well, the city did a lot of building since I moved. When I moved out here, weren’t a whole lot of homes or whatever. But, after then, they kept building and building and building, so…





	L:	What year did you move out here? P:	1973.

	L:	[19]73? Oh, well, we had been out here a long time. We been out here ten years before you came because we was about the tenth person to move in in Wedgewood. Not the tenth person. It was the Shumos, the Purvises, the Fords, the Collins, the Enzis. That’s five. The Robers moved in the day I did. So, we was the fifth house to move in, fifth person to move in Wedgewood.

	P:	That’s good because, see, a lot of people on my street, I just worked, so a lot of people, I didn’t even know their names because I worked all the time and I was going all the time. I remember when the Howards up above me. The Singfields used to live next door to me. Remember the Singfields that lived next door to me where the road ends? They lived there, and the Howards next door to them. I think the Banks or somebody used to live down there where the Sapps live now.

	L:	Oh, I didn’t know that. All that was new. That was woods when we were here.



Nothing but woods. Wasn’t anything but Wenonah Street. Alfonso went that way, and then a building went on to go this way. That’s all was here in Wedgewood.

	P:	They built a lot of homes, and, when you look at it now, a lot of the homes are so run down and whatever.

	L:	They just let them go.



	P:	They just let them go down. Yeah. A lot just needs to be done here to bring it kind of up to par because we had the school. You know, the school there? Do you remember what year they built that school? I don’t remember. But, I know we had a nice school here, and they decided they wanted to tear it down.





	L:	Yeah, we had Wedgewood School. Then, I don’t know what happened to that community center that they… [Laughs]

	P:	The one you were talking about? I don’t even remember that one. L:	When the office was up on Alfonso Street–Alfonso Street?

	P:	Yeah, I think it was Alfonso.



	L:	No, the street that goes that way.



	P:	Yeah, I know what you’re talking about. L:	Not Alfonso.

	P:	You talking about Hampton?



	L:	It comes right through Wedgewood. The main–Alfonso, I guess it is.



	P:	Well, I live on Pinestead. Now, that goes all the way out to 29, Pensacola Boulevard.

	L:	No, but the street at the gate that comes on–



	P:	Oh, I know what you’re talking about. Over there on Wingfoot?



	L:	No, no, not Wingfoot. Okay, here’s the flashing light right here. That’s Wenonah Street right here. It was only this street went so far, and then they start building Wenonah Street here, and that’s all they had. Pinestead!

	P:	Well, that’s what I live on. Pinestead goes out that gate and goes all the way to Pensacola Boulevard right there.

	L:	Well, they made Pinestead. P:	After.

	L:	I guess. Because the office was on Pinestead when we first moved in. P:	Yeah?





	L:	Because I know, when I went to get my air conditioner, I would leave the kids sleeping in bed, and I would walk up there. I wouldn’t drive. So, it had to be close by.

	P:	Yeah, it was up there on Pinestead.



	L:	Then, all the neighbors are dead. All the people that moved in, they’re dead now.



They all gone.



	P:	And, all of them died from similar conditions. Most of them was cancer, and that toxic stuff from that landfill will cause you a lot of stuff, would cause cancer. A lot of people died with that. But, you know what, I’m right there at the gate, and I’m not having the breathing problems or anything. I have been blessed, I really have, not to have that. Your husband had that too, didn’t he? Not being able to breathe?

	L:	He had COPD, but he got his in the navy onboard ship. He didn’t get his from out here. He got his in the navy. But, he had COPD, and he had multiple issues though when he died, diabetes and everything.

	P:	Okay, and they say a lot of our conditions [inaudible 38:55] proven. No medical people have said that yet, but we know a lot of things that was in that pit were causing health problems because it was searched by special Gloria. Gloria had a lot of information about the different things that was in that pit down there.

	M:	You were saying asbestos was one of the things? When they took asbestos out, they took it there?





	P:	Yeah. What else was in there? I can’t even think of the name of the thing. Sulfate something. It’s a sign. When you come into Wedgewood, it tells you what could be in the atmosphere here. I forgot what it is. Sulfate something.

	L:	Some kind of sulfate. I don’t know anything about it.



	P:	I just don’t remember just exactly the name is, but it let you know when you enter the area what you can expect when you come in here.

	M:	That’s quite a welcome sign.



	P:	It is. It is. We’ve been fighting so long and so hard trying to get it, and we finally getting it closed. They’re supposed to be capping it off. We fired the people that was supposed to be capping it off. They wasn’t doing a good job, so we had to let them go. So now, they trying to get somebody else to come in and take over, and what we are hearing, even though we didn’t cause the problem, we as tax payers will have to pay for it being cleaned up. Have you heard that?

	L:	No.



	P:	I heard that. Isn’t that strange that we didn’t cause the problem but we got to pay for the problem being fixed?

	L:	Well, that’s life.



	P:	Yeah, but I don’t like life when it get to that. I don’t like life because they said now that they know these houses are contaminated and all. I said, “We didn’t do that.” They saying these houses aren’t worth much, which they probably don’t. I said, “We didn’t contaminate this area”. What his name? I forget his name because we used to have his name rolled out somewhere, the man that own that pit down there. I forget his name, but they contaminate our area. They should be made to





clean it up, not that we as tax payers, the people that live in the community, got to turn around now and pay to have it cleaned up for our benefit. That’s just not fair. It’s not fair at all.

M:   No, it’s not. Can I ask, when do you remember it starting? When did it begin?



	P:	Well, right after we got here, I believe in 1973, [19]74. It was a small thing. It wasn’t so big. Over the years, it’s gotten bigger and bigger. They started bringing more stuff, but it basically started back then in 197–I’d say–4 really. There was a big old hole, I say, like they finally dug it out to be.

	M:	It was just little dumping kind of, like people bringing…?



	P:	It was a little dumping place. They brought stuff, but eventually it got where it got to be big. Trucks was coming in, so that’s why we closed that gate because of the big old trucks that would come here at night there. That gate was closed. I forgot what year that gate was closed right there by me.

	L:	I don’t know.



	P:	I forgot what year. But, then they closed it. Then, the trucks couldn’t come through here anymore. They had to go around and come in the back. You know, the trucks that bring all that garbage and stuff back there and then drop it, and it just contaminate our neighborhood. Right to the side of me there, we used to have a pond. Peoples would fish back there. Now you should go to the end of that street and see all that garbage that’s piled up there and all that stuff right there by me. I tell you. That’s the reason I say I want to leave now, Berta. Have you ever been to that side street by me there?

	L:	No, I haven’t been down there.





	P:	Where all this trash, when it rains and the water all that trash [inaudible 35:04] right there because they got these big old cement things down there to keep the trash from going down, but then you know all of it’s stopping there. All that garbage and stuff stops right there. So, I’m just kind of in the middle of a bad situation. I really am.

	M:	It sounds that way. Were there any meetings before they started?



P:  Yes, they had meetings. They talked about it because, my husband, he was the president of the homeowner’s association for a long time. Your husband, wasn’t he something at one time, too?

L:   No, he wasn’t president. He was vice-president or something.



P:   Yeah, my husband was president at one time for a long time. He stepped down.



Then, Ms. Anne Riley, I remember when she took over one time for a while. They had meetings and people met, but we seemed to never could get the right people. They would promise things, and they would fall through. Promise they was gonna do better. You would go down to the meetings and stand up in there and talk about it in front of their face, and they just [Laughter]. It didn’t do any good really. They promise, but it’s so many things. What about this thing they promised us we was supposed to be getting measured the air that comes in here? I don’t think they never did anything that year.

L:   I don’t know.



	P:	Somebody was supposed to install and supposed to have been taking the measurements of the amount of odor we was getting. I think they just stalled that. I don’t think they did anything.





	L:	My husband kept up with all that stuff. I didn’t keep up with that. I had too much other stuff. My husband was a firm believer of going to the meetings.

	P:	Oh yeah, he was down there with us fussing down there. It didn’t do no good, most of it. You go to homeowners meeting. They would give you a few minutes to say something, but it really didn’t do any good. We still here smelling the odor that’s supposed to have been capped, and they really didn’t cap it. Because every time it rain, that odor just... They say it’s not in the soil, but we know it’s in the soil. It’s in the water. It’s got to be in everything. One time, we tried to have a garden in the backyard, but then, with all that stuff back there, all the chemicals and all that, we didn’t want to try to grow any vegetables back there anymore.

Did you ever have a garden? You had a garden, didn’t you?



	L:	Yeah, I keep a garden. P:	You still got one?

	L:	Uh-huh, still got one. Of course, I’m not able to work in it. My son and daughter, they out there working in it, but they don’t know what they’re doing. [Laughter]

	P:	What about your soil now? I’m just kind of skeptical of trying to grow anything because of the soil. They say it’s in the soil. They kind of say it’s not. They say it’s not in the water, but, yes, it can’t help but to be in there. This been going on a long time. For the last eight years, we really been fighting real hard to try to got it close, but it’s supposed to be capped. But, it’s really not capped off yet where you won’t smell the odor. It’s really not.

	M:	Well, and, Ms. Powell, you were saying the dirt washes into your driveway?





	P:	Yeah, from that place. When it really rains, it’s coming right on back down. The water goes down and wash the soil and sometimes having to pass by my driveway because its not built up that high anymore, so sometimes the water goes right down in my driveway, right on through to my carport, right on back in my backyard or whatever. So, I just really have got the brunt of most of it I say because of where I live because I’m the only somebody right there at the gate.

	M:	Did they ever explain why they chose that site for the landfill?



	P:	No, but that’s not the only one we have. How many is it, Ms. Lawrence? It’s four or five?

	L:	I know there’s one over by George Stone School.



	P:	It’s not the only one in this neighborhood. I forgot the amount of landfills we have here. It’s four or five, especially this little area right here. We have that many landfills right in this area. Yeah.

	M:	And, no one ever explained why? They just–



	P:	No. Well, they just said because it’s a poor Black neighborhood. That’s the reason they said they did it. That’s when they said that. They just put it in our neighborhood, and I don’t know. We tried to protest it, but it didn’t work. It just didn’t work out. They made promises that they didn’t kept to us. They still is, making promises. They say another road is coming through. They promised that road years ago. Did you hear, Ms. Lawrence, now they say the road is coming through?

	L:	Yeah, but when? They keep saying it’s coming through, but when?





	P:	Well, one time, [inaudible 29:37] think about it, but it will come up again now and they say it’s really coming through. I don’t know.

	L:	I don’t know either.



	P:	Maybe it’s in my lifetime. I don’t know. [Laughter]



	L:	We received information to come to a meeting about the planning of the road and–

	P:	You talking about the one years ago? L:	Uh-huh.

	P:	That was probably about eight years ago or better.



	L:	Well, we received a card in the mail this year about coming to a meeting about the road, but nothing has been done. They just cut it off. So, I don’t know.

	P:	I don’t either. I’m still waiting.



M:  When you said it’s the past eight years people have especially pushed, what happened eight years ago that people started moving to get it capped? What changed?

	P:	Well, we started going to the meetings in the neighborhood. We started going down there. Like she said, her husband and me and a few others, we would go down there, and we would really have it out with the county commissioners. It didn’t do any good. That been going on for eight years, and, see, we still–where are we?

	L:	Well, I know about five or six years, it’s been going on, because I looked at his shirt the other day and I said, “I wonder who I can give this shirt to?”





	P:	Yeah, I think according to LaFanette, it’s been eight years that we’ve been trying to get it completely closed.

	L:	They gonna do what they want to do anyway.



	P:	And, see when you go down there too, it’s five of them. I believe it’s five of them. How many commissioners there is? Four or five? Four, I think it’s four. Anyway, you go down and put some up of the votes you’re voting for, and most of the times, May is out. He’s our county commissioner. He tries so hard to do stuff, but, when you got four people and three people voting against one, what does that leave you with?

	M:	Not much.



	P:	He out there hanging on the limb. He tries, but then, if everybody else is voting against it, you’re just one person voting for it, that makes a difference.

	L:	He tries hard, but it’s nothing he can do. P:	Yeah.

	M:	And, Ms. Lawrence, you mentioned your husband, can I ask his name? L:	Willie Clarence Lawrence.

	M:	Okay, and so he was fighting all this for years, too?



L:   Yeah. Every morning he’d get up, he’d have something to say about it. That’s all he lived and breathed. He would go to all of the county commissioners meetings and have his little speech ready. Uh-huh. He did everything he could to fight the pits.

P:  And, he was very vocal now. We would go down to the meetings, and he was very vocal.





	L:	Uh-huh, because he felt like the pits were making him sick, and I think so too because, when he’d go outside and come in, he was just sick. So, finally, he just got so sick that I carried him to the hospital, and he stayed in the hospital from August to January and died. I always said he had multiple problems.

	M:	How did he get started fighting the pits?



	L:	Well, he noticed the changes in everything. We’d been out here so long and he liked it, and it was changing. So, things were changing that we didn’t like, so he just became vocal about it, about the things he didn’t like, about the odor. You go outside, and you can’t stay outside for the bad odor. That’s one thing that bothered him, that bad odor. He couldn’t stand it outside. If you can’t have a nice lawn and a gazebo and plants and things and you can’t go outside and enjoy it, you don’t need it. So, that’s when he became vocal–when we couldn’t enjoy what we had.

	P:	Yeah, because my husband, he been dead nine years ago. He was dead before all of these, but he tried with Marie Young when he was president of homeowners. He stayed in that position for a long time, but then, after he died, I’m trying to think–Ms. Sunday took over? Didn’t she get to be president of homeowners?

	L:	No, I know some lady up there on Pinestead, but I don’t know.



	P:	Oh, that was Ms. Anne Riley, but, Ms. Sunday, I think she was president before. L:	I don’t know about Ms. Sunday.

	P:	Yeah, she was president.





	L:	Now, I went long years ago when Barry [inaudible 23:36]. We didn’t have any problems. I was secretary of it, and I have the minutes now. What we would do, Barry would go out–he was president–and he would get the person that was responsible and bring them to the meeting and let them voice they opinion and let the homeowners people express their opinion. We didn’t have any problems too much about anything. But then, later, I just didn’t–it was too much talking and not enough working, not enough doing. Too much talking. Everybody was running their mouth. Wasn’t anybody doing anything, so I didn’t like the homeowners meeting. I didn’t go.

	P:	You didn’t go. [Laughter] L:	I didn’t attend it.

	P:	Yeah, they gave us, me and my husband, a certificate I got down now when he was homeowner’s president. After then, a lot of people got, well they got discouraged. They got older, and they stopped coming. A lot of people were sick and couldn’t come. There’s a lot of reasons people didn’t come and didn’t go because most of them were sick and had problems. They didn’t come to meetings. They would be sick. Like I said, my husband dead nine years, so we still struggling. Yeah.

	M:	When did you start noticing people getting sick? Was there a point when you started noticing that really kind of happening as a…

	P:	Well, back in [20]09, maybe about more than that, my husband has been dead nine years, and he was sick there for maybe tenor whatever before all the problems start coming out. When I took my husband to the hospital, he had lost





his voice. He couldn’t see. It was just devastating. I took him to the hospital, and he stayed in the hospital for those six weeks. He didn’t come home. Then, from there to Hospice, and Hospice to the cemetery. And, he’s like your husband. He fought for a long time.

	L:	Like Judy Cook. She still in the nursing home. P:	Yeah. I went to see her yesterday.

	L:	She still there. She was a fighter for the Wedgewood Community, too. She’s sick.



She’s still in the hospital. Somebody else is still sick.



	P:	From this community?



	L:	Uh-huh, but a lot of people have just died. All the doctors was saying multiple problems. It’s multiple problems.

	P:	Yes, Judy, yesterday was her 71st birthday. I went to visit her yesterday.



	L:	Oh, Judy was? Well now, she was a fighter for the Wedgewood community.



	P:	I think that was some of Judy’s problem. She was too much of a fighter when she had two strokes right there behind one another because she would get so involved and so upset when all that stuff was going on, and you just can’t take all that stuff to heart.

	L:	So, that’s the problem. It’s not like it was when we moved in. When we moved in to Wedgewood, it was nice and pleasant, and you could look forward to something nice. You don’t look forward to anything but just staying alive.

	P:	Yeah, that’s true.



	M:	I mean, it looks like it was beautiful. You had the pond. It’s nice and green out here. I mean it’s a nice–





	L:	Well, it was nice, and then back years ago, the vacant lots, the homeowner’s association would contact the person that owned the lot and they would have to keep them clean. But nowadays, they just grow up. There’s one over in front of me now right in front of my garden. I bought this part from Gov Powell and that part I don’t know if the neighbors purchased or who purchased that, but that’s a mess. Drug addicts and fox, squirrels, rabbits, everything out there in that area and in the community.

	P:	One thing about that, we have upset the habitat where they live right there. They live in the woods out there. Now, we tearing down the trees and a lot of things, so that’s driving them into neighborhoods because it was a bobcat when that hurricane came here that time.

	L:	In the tree?



	P:	No, he was coming in the yard. We had a dog. That poor dog fought that bobcat.



That dog killed him, but it was a battle. We had that dog. We didn’t even know bobcats was out here because of that hurricane when it came through. That bobcat came in that yard and that dog attacked, and they fought like–Oh! The dog killed him, but he had tore that dog up, though. We didn’t know all that stuff was out there until the pit and everything down there brought a lot of stuff out into the neighborhood. Kind of afraid to go outside. You just don’t know what you're going–snakes, I know snakes is coming up around my house.

	L:	Snakes?



	P:	Yes, ma’am.



	L:	Well, I haven’t seen any snakes where we live.





	P:	Well, I had them go in my house.



	L:	We get all the odors and stuff from the dump, but we haven’t got any snakes get on me.

	P:	I had two to go in my house. L:	Really? Were they poisonous?

	P:	Yes, ma’am. I don’t know what kind they were. I killed one, but one, I don’t know whatever happened to him. I didn’t leave home because a snake not making me leave my house. My children and grandchildren was in the bed. They wouldn’t get on the floor. They left home. I stayed and we looked, and we never could find that snake. I don’t know what happened to him. I guess he went back out.

	L:	He came inside?



	P:	He came in the front door there. You know how they can slither and whatever, and my grandbaby seen him. She was screaming and hollering. He came in the front door. So, they wouldn’t stay there anymore. They left me and went on down to they grandmamma and them house and whatever, and I was there.

	L:	Well, I don’t blame them. I wouldn’t have stayed either. [Laughter]



	P:	Everybody thought I was out of my mind, but we looked for that snake and looked all over my house and everywhere. They say he probably hanging around where there’s water, under the refrigerator, different places. I’m sure he probably went out. I never did find him. I’m sure he left. Yeah, snakes.

	L:	I wouldn’t have stayed in that house anymore. [Laughter] The snake could’ve had the house!





	P:	I said, “No snake ain’t running me out of my house!” I didn’t leave. I thought it was kind of crazy to stay up in a house with a snake, but I didn’t leave. After we kind of looked for him and didn’t see him, then I felt a little comfortable about it, and I felt like he left. I believe he really went out during all the whatever. I’m sure he went back out the same way he came in, I guess. Never did find him, so…

	M:	Can I ask you both, and you talked about this a little before we started the recording, but why did you move to Wedgewood originally, and where did you move from?

	L:	I was evacuated from Guantanamo. My husband was in the navy. In the Cuban crisis, they just sent us all just packed us up on the ship and sent us to the states. I lived with my parents on Hernandez Street, and it was crowded and uncomfortable and all that. I went out to look for an apartment. The only thing I could find was one with the restroom on the back porch and all that kind of stuff. I wanted a nice place to live, and somebody told me about Wedgewood. I came out here, and it was about five houses built, just about five houses. So, my husband came home at Christmas. This was like November when I came out here. So, my husband came home in December for Christmas, and I brought him out here. He said, “Heck no! You not living out there and those bears. You not going out there.” [Laughter] I said, “Yes, let’s go out there and look”. So, we came and looked, and can you imagine what we paid for that house then?

$11,625! Three bedroom, a bath, and a kitchen, and all that stuff and a carport. Eleven thousand and something dollars for that kind of house, and so that’s why we moved here. And so, when it was time to go back to Guantanamo, I didn’t go





back. I moved. The kids and I moved out here to Wedgewood, and then my husband came home. He stayed just on leave, and then he went and he was aboard ship. So, we just stayed in Wedgewood. We liked it. It was one of the nicest places you could live then, back in the [19]60s. I moved in April of 1963, and it was nice. I loved it except they told me bears was out here, and I was afraid of the bears. [Laughter]

	P:	I’m sure it was because it was a lot of woods out here before they built the houses. It was a lot of woods out here before they built the houses out here.

	L:	Well, I don’t know, but I would sit there and rock my baby at night and look for bear and close all the windows. Finally, they ordered my air conditioning unit and put it in because I would have the windows down, had these oscillating fans going, and it wasn’t doing much good. Unh-uh. But, I moved here because it was one of the nicest places in Pensacola after I got evacuated from Guantanamo, and I didn’t want to go back. So, that’s why I’m here, and I loved every minute of it because I lived in a lot of places in the navy and this has been one of the nicest places that I’ve lived. San Diego, Norfolk, Little Creek, Jacksonville, North Carolina. I lived in a lot of places, but this has been the best place, the nicest place I’ll say. The nicest place that we had. Uh-huh. That’s why I’m here. Then, when my husband got out of the navy, he was sent to Little Creek, Virginia, or some place, and I wouldn’t leave. Then, he retired in [19]66 and came home, so that was good. Then, we decided to call Pensacola home. Then, we started rebuilding our house, added more to it. So, finally, we got everything we wanted added to it, and then he retired. After he retired, maybe like ten years later, he





got sick and passed away. So, that’s why I’m here in Pensacola. Because of the navy, I guess.

	P:	That’s a good thing. And, I moved from right round the corner.



	L:	I wanted a nice place to live, and this was one of the nicest places in Pensacola to live, I think, at that time.

	P:	It was at that time.



	L:	It was the nicest place you could get, and the schools were convenient for the children. Everything was convenient.

	P:	Yes, our school was nice until they tore it down. It was right there. Our school.



Nice school. Now, I used to live right around that corner just off of Diamond Dairy Road right there, so I moved right round the corner here. But, there was a lot of houses here. My husband would come through here, and we seen that house there. He wanted it, and we liked it. Nobody had ever lived in it, but it was there. People was breaking the windows out and doing a lot of things, and so we wanted it. We bought it, and we moved in. Now you paid eleven–I think ours was twenty. It might’ve been a little more than yours. I don’t know, but I had four bedrooms and a bath and a half.

	L:	Well, no, I had three bedrooms, a bath, a living room, and a kitchen. That’s all I had. And, we took the carport and made a dining area, and we built a family room on the back. Then later, we put the upstairs–a big master bedroom upstairs. So, we fixed it like we wanted it.

	P:	So, you added on. We never did add on. Like I said, I think ours was twenty– L:	We still had plenty of land. Enough.





	P:	Yeah. But anyhow, like I said, I’d leave today if I could leave because I am so close. I am just right at the gate. I am. If you see where I live. Just a gate between me and the landfill.

	M:	That’s something to live that close to– P:	Yeah, to landfill or whatever.

	M:	Can I ask, did you grow up in Pensacola, either of you?



	L:	No, I grew up in Alabama, but I came to Pensacola when I graduated from high school. Started living with my grandmother, and then I married a sailor and went all over everywhere. Settled down in Pensacola, and I liked Pensacola better than any place I’d ever been other than San Diego. [Laughter] I love Pensacola. But, this was my husband’s home, so the navy always considered your husband’s home as your home. Then the crisis, they sent us here to Pensacola, and that’s where I’ve been ever since.

	P:	I didn’t grow up here. I came here from [inaudible 06:13], Alabama, but I came here in the [19]50s. I’ve lived kind of like all over different places before. I moved right by the corner, and my husband was military. He was in the army. We got out and came here.

	M:	What was your husband’s name?



	P:	Henderson Powell, Jr. He was a minister. We had seen the house. It was a nice house. The surroundings was nice but didn’t have any dreams that it was going to turn into what it turned out to be. Like I said, that little pit was there, but they weren’t taking anything down there, nothing to what would damage your health or anything. They wouldn’t take that down there. I know they were taking some





good furniture. Like those hotels, sometimes they have little damaged things, chairs or whatever. They would take that down there, but then later on they got to bring everything down there, plaster and all kind of different stuff, and that asbestos, they said they took that down there. I don’t know. They brought a lot of stuff and put it there, and they wasn’t supposed to. Right now, those pits have a lot of things against them that they didn’t come up to standards, and the county never really did anything about it. They should have. When they was there and couldn’t get it passed or whatever to come back in to set up another pit because, like I say, we got four or five. They kind of didn’t really follow through with that.

They would let them get about any little thing and they would set one up and, here we go, another pit in the neighborhood. We just been treated so unfairly. We really have. So, like I said, I would leave today if I could leave. I really would.

	M:	Would you leave Pensacola or just the neighborhood?



	P:	Not necessarily Pensacola, just the neighborhood. I really would. Don’t think that stuff don’t affect more than Wedgewood. With that odor, I’m sure it go into a lot of other places. I’m sure it affects that school over there. They won’t admit it, but the school is right down there going down the hill right up. That’s that big school over there. We have UPS there, and they have some homes in the neighborhood there, and they just opened something else down there where they got this cement, where they do that cement stuff and all that dust from that. They gave them the go ahead. They can go in there and do this. It’s just devastating. It really is, and I know it affect that school. We had two schools there, really three schools. Pensacola High School, and we had Longleaf Elementary and George





Stone Vocational School. All those three schools are right there together, and here we right here just down the hill from them. You know it’s affecting those schools. But, for some reason, somebody won’t admit it. I know it is. It’s got to, being that close to that pit, and we got two or three around over in that area, several of them. They won’t do anything about it, but that’s okay.

	M:	They’re going to have to sooner or later.



	P:	Yeah. But, see, they’ve done wasted all that money and all that time when the thing’s supposed to have what they call putting the cap on it. They was over there doing something, putting all that sand up there or whatever they putting up there, and every time it rained, it washed all that stuff right back down here. It came by my house, sand in the water off of that hill up there, so I’m caught in the middle.

	M:	Wow, that’s a lot.



	P:	My thirty minutes should have been up a long time ago. [Deborah Hendrix enters]

	M:	I think we’re good. I think Deborah is coming for the pictures. P:	She got my picture.

	H:	I’m going to give them back to you. Are we– M:	We’re finishing up.

	P:	Oh, I thought you got a picture of me. Didn’t you get a picture of me? H:	No.

	P:	I thought you did. Oh, I thought we was trying to find a place or something.





	M:	I think that’s after this. Did either of you have a final thought you would want to share on the recording or anything we didn’t bring up?

	P:	I can’t think of anything we didn’t bring up. Can you think of anything we didn’t bring up, Ms. Lawrence?

	L:	Oh no, I don’t.



	P:	But, I would like to say I wish they would come and give us some justice and think about do unto others as you would have them do unto you. You wouldn’t want to live in this kind of condition. You can do something about it but won’t do anything about people that living in that condition, you know? Come on. You are your brother’s keeper. You my neighbor. You supposed to love me like you love yourself. You wouldn’t want to live in it, so why are you keep putting things off and procrastinating and not doing anything about these landfills that is killing our neighbors and our neighbor’s children? That’s what it’s doing. That’s all I got to say.

	L:	I don’t have anything else. M:	Thank you both very much. [End of interview]







Transcribed by: Dewin Anguas Barnette, June 23, 2020 Audit-edited by: Sandra Romero, January 20, 2021 Final edited by: Sandra Romero, January 26, 2021