AAHP 362B; Harmeling; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 362B Dan Harmeling African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Ryan Morini, Justin Dunnavant, and Randi Gill-Sadler on November 25, 2014

1 hour, 24 minutes | 38 pages













































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 362B

Interviewee: Dan Harmeling

Interviewer: Ryan Morini, Justin Dunnavant, and Randi Gil-Sadler Date: November 25, 2014



	H:	I don’t have any secrets. [Laughter] I’m not going to carry anything to my grave.



That I know of. But anyway. So they formed this, because SNCC realized in many of the Black communities, particularly what they experienced in Mississippi, that the racist tradition of deferring to anybody White was still pretty strong, particularly in elderly people. So Whites didn’t have any authority. They were working under the Black students, but yet they would deferred to because that was the White man. So they formed SOC, Southern Student Organizing. It was a predominantly White organization of Southern schools, all of which had been recently desegregated. Like our first undergraduate students didn’t come until the fall of 1962 here at the University of Florida, and this was done in 1964. So anyways, SOC had a history, and they only lasted five years. I was at the initial meeting, the charter meeting. I got an invitation and went up to Nashville. And the SNCC representative, if I can show this picture to you guys. Yeah. This man has been in the news. I am sitting on the floor. Yeah, I’m this guy. You can see we wore ties and suits. SNCC wore the overalls, we would wear a tie. Here’s the SNCC representative. Marion Barry. This was before he went to Washington DC. He was a part of SNCC then, but he was working. People don’t know his academic background. He was working on the master’s degree, or he had finished his master’s degree, in chemistry. He was an instructor at Fisk and Tennessee State and then evidently from the obituary I read about Marion Barry—you know he died—yeah, that he was actually working on a Ph.D. when he went to Washington. And when he was in Washington, of course, then he got





very involved as the leader of SNCC in urban organizing. Even though DC was kind of Southern, it didn’t have the segregation. And he formed a group called Pride Incorporated. I learned about it firsthand, because I was teaching middle school. At the time it was called junior high school. So it went seventh, eighth and ninth. And Pride Incorporated was to give the youth, the African American youth, jobs. And this was in 1967. And what he did was he got contracts with the city.

He was still just in SNCC. He hadn’t been elected to office yet. And these young people had jobs. Legitimate jobs that put money in their pockets. And what they did was they produced, first of all, trashcans that were all over the city. And the youth would maintain them. Empty them, put another clean bag in, and so on, things like that. And some of my students were members of Pride. I was teaching in an inner city junior high school. I always tell people when they want to know how people have been so loyal to Marion Barry, these people now who he was helping out are now in their fifties and sixties, I think. Well they might have been twelve years old. I was twenty-six, I think when I was. So about fourteen, yeah.

So they’re just turning sixty now. Have an absolute loyalty to the one person and the organization, Pride Incorporated, that really gave them a role in society where they could feel proud and had spending money in their pocket. They didn’t have to do some kind of street hustle or something or do without. They had jobs, city checks. These were kids twelve, thirteen years old. He could always get elected. So a lot of people refer to it as “Well, why was it?” If you ever look back in the history—by the way, he has come out with an autobiography. I didn’t realize he had one. So I will play it if I get a chance to see that. I’ll be able to read about





Pride. By the way, this book—this is the book. It may be available here in our library, but if it’s not, it should be. The author is Greg Michael. He wasn’t around. He is younger, so he wasn’t around then. Now I think he’s a faculty position at the University of Texas. I think that at the time he was at the University of Virginia. And he came down to Gainesville and interviewed me extensively and other people just throughout the South. But it was quite an organization. Now the reason it only lasted five years was some of these Southern students, White students, thought that maybe the civil rights group should still kind of connect to the heritage of the Confederacy. And for a while, we even had as an emblem a Confederate flag with a Black and White hand across it shaking. But people said, “No.” Then the fact we had pins and such. [Laughter] There were a lot of us that fought against that. And my group, by the way, when we came up from Gainesville, we were the one integrated group. I wasn’t going to be part of anything civil rights where Whites formed a civil rights organization to talk about what they can do to help Black people. It wasn’t Whites-only, but essentially that’s what it was. And I think that there are some pictures of our group in here too that I got. I know they’re in the book. So anyway what happened was as the radicalness, the Weathermen and other groups, you remember the anti-war groups and so on. They realized that there was a Southern group named SOC. “Who the hell do they think they are? They still want to celebrate the Confederacy.” Because someone would show up—I don’t know if any of the White women did it but the White men, oh yeah. They set out to take it over, which they did. SOC had an annual meeting, by then I was gone. Well [19]69, by





then I was married with children living in DC. And voted out the officers, voted in their own slate. They had enough people to do it. And essentially decided that the best thing to do to SOC is destroy it. They took all the files, made a bonfire, so the dream was gone. So actually Greg Michael in the book talks about how he tried to reconstruct the history of this group, because it was kind of unique. It was an outgrowth of SNCC. And it is SOC, and we had meetings, and some of the publications that we have refer to SOC, and we were one of the chapters.

Because we called ourselves Berkeley of the South, but we thought it was for good reason. We were actually considered in the book part of the South the most activist of what was called the predominantly-White campuses here at the University of Florida. So Florida has got quite a history. Now the last thing: Marshall Jones. Have you heard of Marshall Jones? Okay. Marshall Jones was our faculty advisor of the Student Group for Equal Rights. And the University of Florida set out, early on probably, to figure out a way to fire him. But he had outstanding academic credentials. He had a dual appointment in the department of psychology, he was an experimental psychologist, but also in psychiatry. He was enormously skilled in statistical analysis. Anybody that finished a study and needed statistics to back up what they were doing, he understood all of this. Plus he was the Paul Ortiz of our campus then. [Laughter] That’s the only way that I can—I have no—there is no comparison between Paul and anyone else that I can see around. Zoharah does a lot, but Paul is really much busier. And Zoharah is out of town a lot, and Paul is... anyway, so that was Marshall Jones. So anyway, the University of Florida brought charges against him. And in the





academic freedom and tenure committee of the senate at the University of Florida, Marshall B. Jones versus the University of Florida. And this is all the evidence, and you can see how they had infiltrated, they had people talking about what went on. It goes on page after page after page. If you make a copy of them and have a chance to read it, it will just blow you mind. These are the administrators. This is Grinter, and Reitz, and there was a guy named Lester Hale, and then there was some other people. This is the kind of people that—you know. Brad Minzer, their style, is still around. Look who Florida State got as their president. What this Thrasher guy? You know about that. He’s a corrupt politician. Now he’s is a president of a university. I think he got a degree at a community college and then got some kind of fake legal. [Laughter] So they call him a lawyer, but it is really just a play. Anyway, this I can’t tell you how I came about this. As soon as I got a copy in my hands, I made a copy. So this is mine. Marshall by the way is now in like his eighties, late eighties.

	D:	Yeah, we were trying to figure out if he’s still in town or if he is—



	H:	Oh no. He is in Palm Beach. Yup. Okay, now it’s not Palm Beach. It’s West Palm Beach. And the Intracoastal Waterway separates. He’s in West Palm Beach. My wife Cathy and I have been down to visit with Marshall and Beth. They’re still around. They are getting old together with their thought process. But he still has a lot of memories, and Marshall came up for that reunion we had—did you hear about that reunion that we had down in Ocala?

	D:	You mentioned briefly.





	H:	Yeah okay. Okay. And next time, I’ll just keep bringing his stuffs as I come upon it. We had a reunion of a group that went down to Ocala in December of [19]63 to help Reverend Pinkston and the NAACP down there with their boycott of the downtown stores. The square in Ocala, all the stores, none of them would hire any Black people. No clerks, no cashiers, maybe there was somebody who could sweep the floor. Something like that. So Reverend Pinkston and the NAACP called for a boycott. It’s getting close to Christmas. So I think the last time we met, I told you how they would take movies of any African American people that were going into the stores, and then at the mass meeting they would say, “Hmmm, who’s that going into the store?” At the mass we would be watching on the big screen, because these are eight millimeter film. You had to develop them and then put them in a camera. It’s the old style. It was great.

	M:	Do you know who took those films or how they—



	H:	That I don’t know. I had might know. But anyway, a group of about twelve people, six faculty and six students or something like that, I forget now, went down to Ocala. Judy and I, Judy Brown, Judy Bennett or Brown and I, we were not eligible to go because we had already been arrested in a demonstration in Tallahassee. So we weren’t a part of the group, but other people were. But as soon as the picketing got underway for about thirty minutes with the NAACP there, but also all the students and faculty from here were all White, the police came and picked out only the White demonstrators and arrested them. “Disturbing the peace.” Well they never formally charged, they never had an arraignment, they just dropped it. But the initial charge was that they would





incitement to riot. Their idea that if Whites and Blacks were on a picket line together, the people of Ocala would start to riot, which again that just shows the mentality that these people had. So anyway, this stuff I’d like back.

	M:	Definitely appreciate it. H:	So now—

	D:	I have a question going off of SOC. What were some of the actions or things that you were involved with in Gainesville as a part of SOC?

	H:	At the Freedom Forum, we had some conferences. Some SOC conferences. My history with it is a little different because in 1965, I got married. And by being married, I had a lot more of my life connected with my marriage. And my first wife had a child, so together we were parents of him. That was my oldest son. So it was different. We lived on the other side of town. We had a duplex. It was interesting, because we were an interracial couple. And out in East Gainesville, if you are familiar with Mount Carmel Church. Yeah, just north of Mount Carmel Church are some duplexes. Some of them have now been made into single family homes, but our particular street where we were renting one half of a duplex. It was within a couple of days after we moved in—It was a dead end street. Some of the men—it was an all-African American neighborhood—some of the men came and paid me a visit and said, “Listen Dan, if the Klan ever comes down this street, they’re going to be dead before they get to your house.” You can imagine how . . . I always felt accepted in the sense that people agreed that Mary and I had a relationship. We were married, and that was perfectly fine. The hostility that some people attribute to things like interracial things and so on, may





be apparent, may not, but certainly wasn’t apparent then. Anyway, it was interesting. We lived there for about a year, and then Mary and I and our son Lance moved up to DC. And that’s when I started teaching and so on. So anyway, did I answer your question? Because I get off the subject.

	D:	Just about.



	H:	I was telling you why I didn’t get involved that much. Some of the things we have show some of the activities that the Freedom Forum was connecting with SOC. And when you read those papers, you will read about some of the things that Gainesville did. So it’s all in there. So I was peripherally connected, but Mary and I and Lance had a lot of other things we were doing. Her father was a farmer as well as a minister as well as barber. And I would be out in Jonesville, where he had a hundred and twenty acres of land, and sometimes we would be picking okra. Sometimes I’d go around to the different places to pick up swill for his hogs. [Laughter] I relish my memories of those times. It’s wonderful. So anyway, the book will have that information. And then if you get ahold of the book, you’ll be able to compare our activities with those of the others like University of Virginia, Georgia Tech was there, the University of Georgia, well Mississippi. The one kid from Mississippi said, “The best thing I can do at the University of Mississippi is be completely quiet. Because if it were ever known that I had even attended this meeting, they’d probably kick me out of school.” That was how bad it was at the all-White Mississippi. Well, I mean just listen to you now.

	M:	This is good. Maybe we should formally introduce this just so we know everyone who’s sitting around the. We are making a new track, not that it’s an issue. This





is Ryan Morini from the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. It’s November 25, 2014. We are here in the SPOHP office with—

	D:	Justin Dunnavant. G:	Randi Gil-Sadler.

	M:	And we are interviewing— H:	Dan Harmeling.

	M:	So thanks for joining us again Mr. Harmeling. H:	Thank you. Glad to be here.

	M:	So yeah, one thing you just mentioned: you said folks in East Gainesville said that they would protect you, basically. Was that a general ethic in that part of town there? That people would kind of take care of themselves there?

	H:	No, this specifically was if the Klan thought this interracial couple needed to be met some violence or some harassment or burn a cross. They dedicated to finding out where we were. Not that it became known. We got married in Minnesota. People didn’t necessarily know except our inner core of friends that we were married, but I definitely was there and it definitely was against the law for White and Black people to cohabit in the same. It was in the Florida Constitution under the category miscegenation. Specific. And later on of course there was a case like that that came out of the state of Virginia so the Supreme Court overturned all the miscegenation laws in 1967, I think it was. I remember when I was living in the Black community, and Mary’s home was maybe six blocks away. I’d walk her home from something, six blocks into the Black community, and we were just a normal part of the community. As far of taking





care of yourself, there was a police presence, but the police weren’t called to places. Like now, they put their lights on, their sirens and six cars come up because they heard someone is fighting somewhere. So called gang violence is taking place. It was pretty insular in that sense. I mean if people wanted to call the police, but I don’t even remember seeing a police car. At the time, the Gainesville Police Department was entirely White. If there were any officers who were Black, the only operated within the Black community, and this had to do with the sheriff’s department too. As far as the White community was concerned, they didn’t even exist.

	M:	And was there a name to the neighborhood you were living in over there? H:	Duvall Heights.

	M:	Duvall Heights.



	H:	Duvall Heights, yeah. I think it was the Coyt Thomas Apartments. Coyt Thomas, yeah. He was a builder and he built those. He was a White builder. His son would come door-to-door on Saturday morning to collect the rent. Rent was always collected on a weekly basis. The first time he came and knocked on the door to collect the rent, I just said to him, I said, “I prefer just paying a month at a time if that’s all right.” “Oh, yeah. Sure.” He was a nice kid. He was a high school kid, son of the Coyt Thomas people. It was the only interaction I had. Mary rented the place so we didn’t show up as a couple and say, “Okay, we’re an interracial couple.” You know, we would like tell the finger neighborhood. It typically was what we did for incentive. In the student areas, at first before the housing laws against discrimination took place, the University of Florida said, “Oh, we can’t





promote housing for our new Black students on campus, because we don’t know how the landlords and the tenants would react. We’d have to ask them how they felt. And if there were going to be problems, we certainly didn’t want to risk students coming into a setting like that.” That’s the explanation they gave us. In the case of getting an apartment, you just have the White kid rent and say, “I have two roommates.” “Oh, okay. Sign the lease.” That was fine. And never did anybody ever experience any kind of problems at all with discrimination and racist stuff like that. The attitudes of students were well ahead of the establishment. The establishment, I believe and you can read into this, almost everything they did, they probably thought that this integration was just a fad.

And that the Black students would soon learn that they really weren’t welcome and didn’t belong and they’d just be leaving. See. Because they made no attempt to do anything other than quote “follow the law.” But other Southern states were more explicit, I mean George Wallace was saying. I mean somebody else in Mississippi was Black and James Meredith, right. What did Wallace do? He stood in the door. I don’t know if you remember; that’s a famous thing.

	M:	I don’t know if you have any further comment on it, but it’s interesting. It seems there is kind of this ambivalence to Gainesville, I guess, where on one hand, people talk about it and you’ve talked about it, being a little more liberal or there were more possibilities because of the university setting. But on the other hand, it’s the flagship state university so it’s also kind of an arm of the state. You’ve got administrators who have kind of a separate agenda. What was it like to negotiate that?





	H:	I think that’s a very clear way of stating it. When you read this, the ridiculous kinds of things they used against Marshall Jones. And I think you will read in here for instance—it’s hard. They said that Marshall Jones-- I just didn’t take enough time to find it, but they actually put it in print—he ruined an entire family by causing one son to marry a Black woman. The other son to commit suicide, that was my brother’s death, and the sister to marry the most disheveled campus radical that had ever been here. His name was Lucian Cross. They were charging him this. My parents didn’t even know Marshall Jones. And yet after my brother’s death, J. Wayne Reitz went down to Orlando. That’s where my parents lived. And so here’s Reitz at a motel or hotel and calls up to ask my father to meet with him. Well my mother told me the story. My father never did. So they drive, and my mother stays in the car, but he goes in to talk to with J. Wayne Reitz. When he comes out, evidently what J. Wayne Reitz has done is introduce him to Marshall Jones and says, “None of this would have happened except for this man Marshall Jones.” Even though my dad was very welcoming to my interracial marriage, he was the only member of the family who had objections in the beginning. But when it actually came time for Mary and I to come to my parents and meet, he was the first one out the door to hug my wife and say, “Welcome to the family.” So that was it. And told my dad to write a letter, and based on this letter that my dad wrote, now he was told what a horrible person Marshall Jones was. Here’s my distraught father. I was living up in Washington DC now. I didn’t know any of these events, but my mother later went and told me this. This is a couple of weeks after my brother’s death. This is just what they





were going to do. They wrote this up and had a letter from my dad. So Marshall Jones called me as this was getting under way and said could I come down to Gainesville to refute this stuff they had that my father had written. Well, they put my father up to it. They took this distraught father of someone who had committed suicide and in order to give him a handle to hang onto as far as why Jim had taken his own life, that it was Marshall Jones that had done it. He didn’t even know Marshall Jones, and yet that was how they did it. When you think the establishment and what they’re up to and what they’re willing to do, I don’t think they have any bounds, any ethics. It’s just power, keeping power, and doing whatever necessary to carry this out. The wonderful part is, I think Paul Ortiz is in a very strong position. He’s at the Graham Center. Senator Graham, right. He’s got some powerful allies. Marshall didn’t have any powerful allies. Sure, he had the Black community, but at the time it didn’t have the power it has now. I think the Black community wields a lot of power now, but at the time—the ACLU hadn’t even been formed. I think it was just getting underway. Even the union was just new, I think, when Marshall was here. After these events happening to him, they formed an ACLU chapter and they formed the faculty union because they realized. And prior this, you may have known that they had a purge of allegedly homosexual faculty. And the story behind that is a vicious story. Have you heard this story?

	D:	Is that Jones Committee? M:	Johns Committee.





	H:	Yeah, I mean the Johns Committee, but the Johns Committee just told the University of Florida they needed to go to the task. So what they did is the Johns Committee entrapped some undergraduate student and he was then used to name names. So the guy’s name—he was the vice president. Oh god, I can’t think of his name now. Anyway, I’ve heard this firsthand from professors who knew all about it. I think it was David Chalmers who told me this. Rented a local motel room. They’d invite professors there. They would tell this professor, “Okay, this is the evidence we have. These are the crimes you have committed. And unless you resign right now, we’re going to proceed with criminal charges and take you to jail. So sign the letter and we won’t say anything.” So it didn’t quote on the record. I forget how many professors lost their positions because of this. It was a University of Florida—there’s a picture in one of these things of him receiving petitions where we went to Tigert Hall. I can’t remember the guy’s name now. He was the guy that read the riot act to these people. So numerous people lost. That was it. Just leave town. And again, I have no reason to believe they wouldn’t do it again and aren’t doing it now. You have to gather your forces, make sure you have some power to fight back. At the time, the civil rights groups and the homosexual groups had no power at all. Not relative to what the university. Because they said one time that almost without exception, the succession of Florida governors all came out of Florida Blue Key and the law school. This is how you got groomed. And essentially, the president of the university was in a sense a state official acting on behalf of the powers too. This is where the establishment and the children of the establishment got their





lineage. Royalty groomed their next generation right here on campus. [Laughter] So very good way I think of depicting it.

	M:	So you’ve talked about it and hopefully we’ll talk more about the out of classroom activities, but in the classroom what kind of discussion was there about civil rights? Was there any latitude for professors or were they kind of keeping their heads down? I think there were a couple of exceptions, but normally and typically they just kept their heads down. The one exception was Ed Richer. Ed Richer was kind of second to Marshall. He didn’t have the organizational skills Marshall did. Ed was always kind of an anarchist, but he talked constantly about student revolting and revolution and integration and peace and so on. He was the faculty advisor for the Student Peace Union, which was also considered a communist sort of thing. [Laughter] But, peace was communist. Ed Richer was actually fired before Marshall. He was an instructor in the English department.

	D:	So just looking at some of these names of these names on this list over here. I see Samuel Proctor is on here. Charles Fairbanks of ecology. I guess there was an undertone of people who were supportive of what you were doing but wouldn’t really come out and physically support.

	H:	Although Charles Fairbanks was the chair of the anthropology department, and when Judy Brown and I, early in the fall of [19]63 before these arrest had happened in Ocala, we were the first two students who had been arrested in a civil rights demonstration and the university came down on us real hard. First of all, suspended us with the idea that they would proceed to terminate us as students. Expel us. So we appealed and met with the faculty/student disciplinary





committee. Charles Fairbanks was the chair. They found us innocent. However, conduct unbecoming of Florida student, that was the charge. Conduct unbecoming of Florida student. But J. Wayne Reitz, the president, overruled the committee. But because they had found us innocent, he could overrule them, but they decided not to expel us. So they reinstated us as students, but they removed financial aid. So Judy Brown was a graduate assistant in the Department of English. Working on a master’s degree. So she lost that. She had to drop out of school. I was still an undergraduate then and I had a part time job in the library. And again, the head librarian just said, “Just keep working. I’ll pay you cash.” [Laughter] That kind of thing took place. There was Charles Fairbanks. But as far as who showed up at a rally to speak, publically holding the mic or the megaphone, Marshall Jones, Ed Richer. That’s about it. You can count them on one hand. Like Paul Ortiz, Zoharah Simmons, right? Well let’s see now. Is there anyone else? There might be, but I can’t think of anybody offhand.

	M:	Did you ever actually interact directly with Fairbanks—? H:	Oh yeah.

	M	Did you talk to him?



	H:	I was a graduate student later on in the Department of Anthropology. So it was very easy to get there. I think he might have helped also, I got a graduate assistantship. I was a student assistant in the foreign student office. So I had a desk job where I would open up the correspondence of students from all over the world who were applying the university. “I have heard from the university—.” These letters, I’d open them up and then I’d send back the information. The





requirement that most people had the most difficulty with was they had to be proficient in English. And there was an exam called TOEFL exam. You are aware of all those kinds of things. So I’d send that back and then once they sent in the score for the TOEFL exam, then we could start processing their transcripts and then somebody else in the office. Then we’d send that over to the admissions office. Anyways, Fairbanks. And what was great about was here I was in the graduate program, but then the Selma march was taking place so I dropped right in the middle of the semester to go to Selma. At the end of the summer when I decided to reenroll, not only did they reenroll me in anthropology, but I got a graduate assistantship back in this foreign student office again. There were a lot of good people around. The enemy was in Tigert Hall. [Laughter] Definitely.

	G:	You talked about how the librarian just kind of paid you in cash to allow you to kind of keep your job. Do you know of any other instances where professors did things to either ameliorate the circumstances of students who would protest or tried to circumvent punishments that were doled out by administration?

	H:	In my case, I knew that if I missed school, for instance being arrested, I was always able to make up a test or something like that or be late for papers. I don’t think anyone ever felt the professor was—there were segregationist professors out to get us who were publicly, yeah. So they would ease the way. I think I told you about the Committee for Student Recruitment we had.

	D:	No, I don’t so.



	M:	I don’t think so.





	H:	That was in the fall of [19]64. I had contacted Florida Blue Key, because I heard something had been called the Speakers Bureau. Florida Blue Key would send out student representatives to high schools to tell them about the University of Florida and provide them the enrollment materials from the admissions office and so on. So I contacted them and I said, “Which of the Black high schools are you going to?” “We’re not going to any.” And they said, “We just never have done that.” I said, “Well, when are you going to start?” “Well they’re too small. We’re not going to go to them.” So we formed, Student Group for Equal Rights, it was like a caucus group. I didn’t work through Marshall Jones. We just did it on our own. Formed the Committee for Student Recruitment. There were maybe five or six of us. But the group that would go out, and I we’ll tell you how we had them do that, there were two of us that were White and two were Black would go.

Susan Lockhart and James Glover were the African American students. And Susan Lockhart and myself were the White students. But here’s how we got invited. I got a list of all the addresses, principal’s names and high schools. Then I took some stationary, somebody had some University of Florida with the emblem stationary, and I took that. And that’s the stationery we used. We couldn’t have them send the response to the University of Florida of course, so the University of Florida Committee for Student Recruitment had a post office box. So we sent letters out saying we would like to be invited to tell your students about the University of Florida. And we did put in the letter that there was a certain minimum score you needed on the high school placement test. At the time, the SAT or the ACT weren’t being used, but in Florida it was the high





school placement test. Certain minimum score. So we got back letters inviting us to come. So we would send when we could come. So we arranged trips. The cars we used were Jones’ cars. They had two cars. Jones’ car. I did a fundraiser, and I asked all the people that we sent letters to what we were doing and why we were doing it to faculty members, and typically almost everybody send back twenty dollars, which was a lot then. So we had several hundred dollars. So we would go to the high school, and I again would get college, everything was paper then, college catalogs and enrollment forms. The admissions office, I just said, “I’m going to a college.” “Oh okay. Here.” Big box of stuff. I didn’t say, “I’m representing civil rights you racist so-and-so.” [Laughter] No you just—Of course we were all dressed up and we we’d come to the high schools, and we’d talk to the students about being enrolled. We went down to Miami, a couple of schools in Miami. Tampa. And Tampa is interesting, because when we went to their high school—are you familiar with Florida Chamberlain High School? I don’t know. But anyway, the student body president of that school was also the football captain.

Was also two hundred and forty pounds and 6’3” being recruited by all kinds of schools outside the South and had almost a perfect score on this high school placement test. His name was Medford Lee. So I said, “Well gee, would you think about playing at Florida?” He said, “Well they haven’t contacted me.” So our football coach at the time was Ray Graves. So when I got back into town I went to see Ray Graves. I said, “There’s this player, Black student, student government president, outstanding academics.” “Oh, I’ve heard of him. I heard of him.” I said, “Well, are you going to recruit him?” I at the time, because by then it





was the spring, I believed Ray Graves. He said, “Well we’ve given all our scholarships out, but he’s welcome to come on as a walk-on.” He told me that. I remember responding to him. I said, “I’m sure we can get churches to sponsor him until he makes the team.” “Don’t,” he said. “That would break all the NCAA rules. You can’t have private sponsorships of students.” So as it turns out, he couldn’t get a scholarship to the university. He needed a scholarship, and the thing with the churches wasn’t going to work, because evidently that would be going. It’s like you have more football players than you have scholarships, because churches are helping football players. So anyway, he got a full scholarship to the University of Louisville, so he went to Louisville. And actually in his freshman year, he had a severe ankle or knee injury or something like that, which stopped his play. So it was good that he wasn’t a walk-on and something like that happened to him. And back then, they still honored your scholarship. So he finished and went on to law school. So as far as I know, he’s still a lawyer back in the Tampa area. Then later on the Gainesville Sun wrote an article about Medford Lee and so on. But that was in [19]64. I think it wasn’t until [19]72 that the first African American football player, Willy Jackson Senior. I think it was maybe late. . .And then we went to Jacksonville. In Jacksonville, an interesting thing happened. Some of the students were interested. In one particular case, a student heard about it and enrolled at the University of Florida. Her name was Kitty Oliver, and she wrote a book, a memoir. And the memoir is a nice hardback book, and I’ve got a copy of it. She writes about this experience with these students at the University of Florida coming to see her. She didn’t even know





about the University of Florida. She just was talking to her mom about maybe going to some small school and then realized they had journalism here. Later on became a reporter for the Miami Herald. She actually, once she put the book on it, she had written a book, she did a book signing here in Gainesville. Maybe if we get together, I’ll bring the book cause I have a copy of the book. She talks about that experience at the University of Florida. Again, the memories are just really good, because we had a core group of very dedicated students. Susan Lockhart, James Glover, Marilyn Socolofoni. Our priority was getting out to these schools. And also we’d invite them to come to campus for orientation. Of course, we ran the orientation. So we had social events and things like that as well as places that you’d feel comfortable living, because again I really believe very strongly that the University of Florida, the establishment, thought that this desegregation was a fad. And it was unspoken, but it was going to be their thought that once these students realized they really didn’t belong here, and people didn’t really want them here, then you wouldn’t have any more of this.

You could go to Florida A&M or you could go to Morehouse or Spelman. Because their attitude wasn’t to promote this at all. In fact, when my brother ran for student body president, do you know something about the Freedom Party?

	D:	You mentioned it briefly, I don’t know.



	H:	Oh, okay. Well, when you look at the scrapbook I got. Have you seen the scrapbook pages? Yes. Well, there’s a lot about the Freedom Party there. My younger sister was on campus, and she kept all these things. Plus, my brother and his wife kept them. But the Freedom Party, one of the platforms was to end





discrimination of all types. And so we charged Florida Blue Key with discrimination of refusing to go to Black schools to recruit. So one thing was Freedom Party was going to make a concerted effort to increase minority enrollment at the University of Florida. So this is—now, of course, they pretend they do all these hard work things. As long as you play football, I guess. [Laughter] I don’t know what the hell they are doing. I think of it this way. This occurs to me: the University of Florida, they call it the Swamp or Gator Field or whatever the hell they call it, is like the coliseum. And these men on the field are the gladiators and they’re slaughtering each other. And they don’t identify with them as a friend. This is just some contest that they can root for. And the blood and the people are carried off the field, carried on the field, patching their heads. And they’re cheering, they’re drunk up in the stands. I don’t know. I don’t think they really give a shit. [Laughter] One example was my teaching, public school teaching, was out in Levy County and in Bronson. I got there in 19—let’s see, I started teaching in 1983. The previous year an outstanding football player got a scholar. Last name is Stacy. I can’t think of his first name. Stacy. But he played defensive back and did outstanding and was recruited. I mean signed on with the Seattle professional NFL team. But in spring training or whenever prior to the season, was again injured, knee or something like that. His career ended. Next thing, he was back in Bronson. He had been four years at Florida, but he didn’t even have enough credits toward a degree, to get anywhere, and he was pumping gas. I just think “Has it really changed?” The only thing they do is they do enough so they don’t get caught. And I’m sure there are plenty of players that





get good degrees and go on and do good things, but you have to be motivated yourself. They’re certainly not making students out of a good share of the football players that arrive. They use them up, and then they’re gladiators. They’re gladiators, right.

	D:	That brings up a good point too since we noticed in some of our prior interviews they talk about some of the athletes were involved in certain actions around campus and in the surrounding communities. Did you all ever have athletes working with you all or this might have been after. . .

	H:	This was after. Had to be after, no. D:	Like Ron Coleman and so forth.

	H:	Yeah, no we didn’t have any athletes on any of the teams. When I first enrolled at the University of Florida, it was the first year of the undergraduate admission of Black students, and I think there were maybe either five or seven students at all that were. By the time I left, in sixty—let’s see, I left in the summer of [19]66.

There was nobody on any team. The only person who had achieved ROTC—I’m telling you something I might have told you before—but his name was Jesse Dean. Came as a junior and completed his degree and he had an ROTC scholarship. Then went on and I think he got his master’s degree in anthropology. Want me to check? Jesse Dean. And this was in the late [19]60s. So then he got his draft notice. Now the University of Florida really doesn’t ever talk about Jesse Dean although he was the first in so many respects. He went to Canada. Jesse went to Canada and still lives there. He’s doing great. He has got some program with the Canadian government and really just an outstanding





individual. They can’t handle that. [Laughter] ROTC, your first African American graduate. What did he do when he got his draft notice? [Laughter]

	H:	They weren’t gonna talk about that. We need our statue of Jesse Dean out in front of the ROTC building with his Canadian passport now. [Laughter] I solved this problem. This is the fun of being able to talk to you about this. Things you’ll never read about. And who recruited Jesse Dean to the University of Florida? Marshall Jones. Marshall Jones. Jesse’s from Pensacola. It is a very interesting story Marshall says. He was a Navy psychologist and Jesse was doing some science project, but somebody led him to Marshall Jones to help him with the project. So Jesse was part of the NAACP, the youth council. In fact, I think he was the president. He and Marshall got to know each other. And when Marshall was offered a position here to leave Pensacola, he was working for the Navy department, “Come here. Jesse, come up. Let’s go together.” So he did. And of course, Jesse, at first, was very busy in the Students Group for Equal Rights, but as it grew, Jesse had other things that he was doing academically. He had a busy life that he didn’t really stay with it.

	D:	Were other students hostile toward the Student Group for Equal Rights?



	H:	The only hostility we might have recognized was that sometimes if we rallied in the steps of Tigert Halls, that the frat boys across the street would be yelling and waving their Confederate flag. I think the only opposition that you could ever came from the frat boys. I don’t know of any organized segregationist group that was around. Yeah, I just can’t think of it. The picket line that we put up in front of the segregated restaurant, it was called the College Inn. Later on it became the





Purple Porpoise. We had a picket line, and there was students, because this side of campus was all male. And Broward Hall and everything was female. There was no coed housing at all. So the boys would go across the street and go to the College Inn. Some people honored our picket line. I don’t remember ever, “Oh, you’re picketing. I guess I won’t go in.” They had made that decision prior. And we had a campus newspaper passed out called Common Sense. It was our Student Group for Equal Rights newsletter. And one administrator made a point of going to the picket line. I didn’t even realize it at the time. I think it was David Chalmers that told me this. Dean Grinter would make it a point of crossing that picket line and going in to eat at the College Inn. Grinter Hall, right. He was Dean of the Graduate School at the time, yeah. Got to honor people like that. [Laughter] And O’Connell who had all the students arrested, you know about that, yeah we have to name the [Laughter] And the Reitz Union, right? You got to honor those people. That’s right, the Reitz Union now is going to get even bigger.

	M:	Oh yeah. It is under construction right now.



	H:	Were you around a couple of years ago when the topic came up about renaming it?

	D:	Mmhm. And the whole background story about how they changed the wording on the ballot.

	H:	Oh, I didn’t know that.



	D:	They had this whole wording about it had background about Reitz and why they wanted to change the name and then when it got to the ballot it just said, “Should the Reitz Union name be changed?”





	H:	That was that.



	D:	No background information. No discussion of anything. This was two years ago?



Three years ago?



	H:	Was it? One of the senators who promoted this name change. I can’t think of the guy’s name now. Some White guy. In fact, if I’m not mistaken, I heard that the Black Student Union refused to endorse the name change. Check that one out, because they were in the political group and the political group meant you could get the favored seating at the events. Have you ever been to the events and everyone gets there early to get a good seat but the first three seat rows are roped off? Just as it is beginning, all these people file in? Those are the students, the ones who’ve gained office, including members of the Black Student Union, of course. They wouldn’t endorse it. But anyway, Lade Ronnie contacted me and said, “You know, I think we should have some recognition of the Civil Rights Movement. Would you do a presentation in front of student government?” And so Zoharah Simmons and my wife Cathy, because she was involved with Zoharah in Mississippi in the freedom struggle, and myself, the three of us did a big presentation to the student government, all the honchos up in the Reitz Union.

And we produced displays and so on. I don’t know what they ever did with the display. I said, “This is yours.” But it depicted all these events that had happened on campus. Sort of a real history of the Student Group for Equal Rights and things that happened. You always got to chip away at it, right? Now that would be a question. See if anyone recalls—because this is only a couple of years ago now—see if that display is still around somewhere in the student union. Where





do they now meet? Have they emptied the student union because of all the construction or how are they doing it?

	D:	They sectioned off half of it. So half of it is still open.



	H:	So the student government still has offices up there. Oh okay. Yeah. Ask them if they still have the Civil Rights display. Three big things like this. And all three of us spoke. I don’t want to keep you too long now.

D:  We have all the time. It’s up to you. H:  Oh okay. I can go until two o’clock. D:  Gives us about twenty minutes.

	H:	Yeah, even if it’s a little after, it’s not—the other day the NAACP was having elections so I had to get there for that, but that went real well.

	G:	When you went recruiting to all the different high schools, did you ever run across people or students or families who were afraid to send their children to UF or people that who were resistant to that because of thing that they may or may not have heard were going on on campus or did you have support from those students who wanted to come to UF?

	H:	Because it was so new, they didn’t even know that the University of Florida was integrated. The University of Florida was making no effort at all that we are now open. In fact, Florida A&M at the time was completely segregated. The first White student that they entered was a guy named James Van Weeder who was a student at the University of Florida. And the ACLU sued on his behalf so he could get admitted to Florida A&M. So they actually desegregated later than the University of Florida. [Laughter] James Van Weeder was also active at the





University of Florida with Student Group. So we never had that happened. When we would meet with students, we wouldn’t meet with a lot of students. We would meet only the students that had that basic minimum score. Because of the dual system of education that took place, what you were able to achieve at the African American high schools was certainly adequate to go into your next level of education, but it wasn’t really preparing you for the standards they had at the University of Florida. It was a fact. So for instance, when we went to, and again the students will mention this, Kitty Oliver in her book, there were four hundred students in their graduating class. But maybe seven of them had the minimum score to get in the University of Florida. So Kitty and the other six came to the meeting. We would only meet with the principals and these small groups. It was always an intimate setting. Did anyone know what was going on on campus? No. This is an all-White institution. Does the name Stefan Mickle—?

	D:	Oh yeah.



	H:	—mentioned? He was one of those students. He and Jesse Dean were the two male students. I think there three or four female students. Stefan was a transfer from Bethune-Cookman. He lived in town. So he didn’t really connect with the campus at all. Jesse did live adjacent to campus, because he was from Pensacola. But the next fall, the fall of 1963, then for the first time, the African American students who came, for instance two guys. They had a room in the dorm. On the first floor in the room next to the exit. So it’s as if you’re going to be put next to the kitchen or something like that. So no one ever sees you. And I think the restroom was right across the hall. So they made every effort to make





them feel insignificant and not wanted. Nothing was done by the University of Florida to make them feel that we’re glad you are here and enjoy life. So really the social life was what the Students Group for Equal Rights. We always had social events. And then we had block seating. I don’t know. They used to do block seating. Do they still do it?

	D:	Uh-huh.



	H:	Yeah. Oh, they have block seating. Okay. So we applied for block seating. And this again was, I think, it was the fall of [19]64. So Student Group would come in and, of course, we were the integrated group. Five or six Black students and maybe ten White students or something like that. We’d have block seating. Well, when we played, it was either Mississippi State or the University of Mississippi in the fall of [19]64. Block seating. Of course, you never knew where you were gonna—well were right up front. But where were we, right behind the Mississippi bench. [Laughter]

	H:	That’s where they put us. Of course, we enjoyed that. It only occurred to me later on, because we won the game. It was one of the few. We attributed the victory to us, because they were so more concerned with who was sitting behind them.[Laughter]

	M:	I guess since we have to move forward, I want to get to Ocala. I had one more question about Gainesville though. Do you remember a teacher from Lincoln High named Joseph Welch?

	H:	Yes.



	M:	W. Welch.







H:



M:



H:

Yes. Yes. Yeah.



Is there anything you remember about him?



I just remember he was significant in the NAACP.

M:

Okay.

H:

He also had a brother, and I can’t think of his brother’s name, but I probably had



a closer friendship with his brother.

M:

Okay. Okay.

H:

Yeah, I can’t think of, but the Welch name is very significant. Yeah. They were



Gainesville people, though. Not Ocala.

M:

Oh yeah.

H:

But did Joseph Welch have a connection with Ocala that maybe I didn’t know



about?

M:

No, he just has a connection to us, because we’ve talked to him before.

H:

Oh, Arago. Arago is his brother. Arago Welch is his brother.

D:

Arago Welch, is that his son or his nephew?

M:

Nephew I think.

H:

Oh, it’s his nephew. Not his brother. It’s his nephew, yeah. Okay.

M:

Okay, well that’s a road we’ll go down another time I guess.

H:

Oh yeah. Okay

M:

Okay.

H:

That’s very good. And what is Joseph doing now?

M:

He actually passed this summer.

H:

Oh okay.





	M:	But we did manage to meet with him a few times, and we’re hoping to honor him. H:	Oh good. Good, yeah. Yeah. He had a lot of memories.

	D:	Cotton gin.



	M:	All kind of stuff.



	H:	Oh, the cotton. Okay. Good. Yeah. Right. He was as a regular participant in Civil Rights activities as anyone in the community. Sure was.

	M:	Well, so the travelling to Ocala. Literally was the trip difficult in terms—I know we have interviews with faculty members from UF at that time who said that sometimes in Marion County, if you had a UF sticker or something on your car, you couldn’t get gas, because they would think you were a communist or something like that.

	H:	Oh, okay.



	M:	Did you ever have any issues with that sort of thing? Did you have to hide that you were from UF when you were in the area?

	H:	Because we didn’t interact with the White community at all—when we got into Ocala, we came down 441. They didn’t have the interstate then, and we would just go right a couple of blocks and be at the church. And that was it. The only thing is when the mass meetings would end at night, then the NAACP, the men formed an armed guard for us and would follow us with their guns until we got to the Alachua County/ Marion County line to make sure. And of course, when Reverend Pinkston travelled, these same men followed him. Because they really feared for his life. He was dynamic. He was every bit what you’d consider a charismatic leader that was anywhere in this country. He commanded respect.





Back in those days when you simply said, “I am a man and you’re going to treat me with respect and I know my rights,” Whites, they didn’t know what to do. The only thing they could do was, “We got to call the Klan. We got to get rid of this guy.” Because when you think about it, that’s what the Klan did.

	M:	That’s true.



	H:	They went after people and killed them. To me, sometimes some of the best leaders that this country could have produced were lynched. They never got a chance to live their lives out, because they were killed. Just like well Robert Kennedy, Martin Luther King, John Kennedy. Shoot them. Get rid of them. Yeah.

	M:	Well, we have an interview transcript with Dana Swann actually that— H:	You do?

	M:	I think it’s with the papers you gave to us from [19]87 or thereabouts.



	H:	Oh wow. Great. Oh, that’s right. Okay. Oh, I’m glad I helped. I’ve got some more stuff to bring to you too. I left some stuff with the NAACP just to look at, but this is the depository of it. It’s all going to come over here.

	M:	Excellent. We’re happy—



	H:	So anyway, you have an interview with Dana.



	M:	Yes, he suggested that—because Reverend Pinkston passed relatively young. H:	A brain aneurism.

	M:	And he suggested it was related to being beaten in Dunnellon. I don’t know if you’re familiar with the incident he was describing or anything like that.

	H:	Okay, the only thing that I can think of is Zev Aelony was beaten in jail. I never knew that Frank Pinkston was beaten up. He might have been, but the person





that would know that if you wanted to verify would be Ann Pinkston. She would know. I can’t imagine. There would have been war if they had laid a hand on Frank Pinkston. [Laughter] There are men with guns around. No. I don’t think the White community would have. They would have shot him from a hundred yards away, but they weren’t going to put their hands on Frank Pinkston.

	M:	Fair enough, but do you remember O.V. Pinkston very well, his father?



	H:	His father. No, just that he was older. Everybody was friendly, everybody was very accepting of the fact that we were coming to the ward. They were glad to have us. Just “Come anything and whatever we can do to make you feel comfortable. Let us know.” I mean sometimes we’d stay overnight. I remember finding a place on somebody’s couch if it got too late and we didn’t want to go back, because we were going to do some stuff in the morning. I remember some of the names of the college students who returned for the summer, who lived in Ocala. So they, out-of-state, they came down back to Ocala. Of course, they were in all-Black colleges. The Civil Rights Movement, of course, was many other places and now they’re back. And one name was Charles Washington, and if I could find out just—I remember them as just, “God, this guy could be president.” That what I thought of Charles Washington. [Laughter] And there was another David Radcliffe. I think his name was David Radcliffe. And later on I saw the name David Radcliffe. He was connected with one of our Democratic governor administrations in Tallahassee. He had some sort kind of role that he played. Those were two very—probably president and vice-president of the youth council. But yeah, the Ocala and Dunnellon connection, I’ve got some pictures of





us. Betty Wright Blakely. By the next time we get together, I will bring you the phone number. I’ll call Betty first to make sure it’s okay and I’ll have her phone number and address for you to be able to reach her. And then Marilyn Sokolof too. Because Marilyn is the person, for instance, connecting with SOC on campus. When we had the Freedom Forum, she was the part-time staff I guess you would call her for Freedom Forum. After the police broke in.

	D:	How did you all get that building and that space? The Freedom Forum space? H:	That land was owned by somebody called the Bicycle Man. Ray “The Bicycle

Man.” And Ray was very sympathetic. This was an old White guy that fixed bikes. But people thought of him as kind of a hermit, but he was very much for the Civil Rights Movement. So when we were thinking of a place, I guess somebody just said, “Well Ray’s always said that we can locate over there.” So we did. We cleaned out little that house with all the bicycles, put them somewhere else. That was Freedom Forum. He just let us be there.

	D:	Welch talked about Bicycle Man and said that eventually he got caught up in some scandal that some of the bikes were stolen or something like that, and they arrested him. That was the accusation that came up against him.

	H:	See, that I don’t know. When things took place relative to the Bicycle Man, one is the adjacent property. There’s this huge tree, but the tree happened to be on the adjacent property. And when they built that strip mall there, that little strip mall, they took the tree down. And that tree had like a thousand birds and Ray would feed the birds. But he also repaired the bicycles under that tree. And it affected him mentally. He wasn’t that mentally stable already. And because of that, he





actually had to be hospitalized. He went into a mental depression. Then Marshall contacted his family up in Tennessee, and somehow Ray got. So that was the end of Ray “The Bicycle Man.” And I guess the family, upon his death or maybe before that, but Ray owned that that land. I didn’t know about a scandal involving stolen bicycles. Again, could be true. Some of those things happened after I had left.

	M:	And you had left when?



	H:	In the summer of 1966, because Mary and I got married in the fall of [19]65. August of [19]65. So we spent our year in Gainesville. We were Gainesville’s interracial couple. Legally married too. This was new.

	D:	I’m guessing you all were the only ones. H:	Oh yeah. [Laughter]

	H:	In fact, just the other night, well it was at the election, the NAACP election, the president, now Evelyn Foxx, she said, “Yeah, Dan I still remember you. You and your Black wife. You turned this town upside down.” “My sister” or cousin or something. She said, “Yeah, she went and started dating a White man because of you. Got married and they’re still married. He’s a good man.” [Laughter] I said, “Well thanks, I’ll take it as a compliment.” She said, “It’s a compliment. It’s a compliment.” To get out to East Gainesville, you go down NE 8th Avenue. Fifth Avenue, that’s where Mary’s family lived. 8th Avenue. There’s a convenience store on the way, near where the National Guard armory is. I don’t know if you know. It’s before you get to Waldo Road, but there’s a convenience store there. Well, that store was there. Mary and I would stop there to get groceries





sometimes on our way back home. And Mary was close enough to the counter to hear a conversation that took place between the owner who was behind the counter and his White customer. I was somewhere else, because I didn’t hear it. And she said all of a sudden he said, “Who does this couple think they is? This Black man and this White woman.” And the owner said, “Oh, those are good people. They’re our first and they’re just fine.” [Laughter] We were just regular folks. You just back off you White man. This was one White man talking to another one. When Mary told me that, I said, “I guess so.” One more story. Then we were living in Washington DC, but to come to Florida, to either my parents down in the Orlando area or her parents here in Gainesville. The Civil Rights Bill had passed so these restaurants, but a lot of these small towns didn’t really have integration on their agenda. So we stopped one time, and as we walked into the restaurant, I realized—I might have expected that; it was right on the highway.

But it wasn’t a chain or anything, but it was a restaurant. All the customers were White, the people were White, but I knew who was in the kitchen, because I could see them. They saw us coming in. They said, “Oh well, hello.” They said, “Yeah, well we have a table over here.” It was going to be next to the kitchen so it looked like we were just part of the help. And I kind of waved to the people in the kitchen. They waved back. And I said, “No, I think we’d like to sit right here in the middle.” They realized I had already connected with the people who aren’t going put up with us being next to the kitchen. So we sat right in the middle and we got the best service. So a lot of it is you make a statement if it’s different and obviously anytime you’re introducing people to something that’s a little different.





But if you connect in the right way, and not in arrogant or nasty way, but just, “Yeah, we’re not here to be pushed around. We would just like to have a nice meal and we’d like to sit in the middle of the restaurant.” Not as if to say, “Well, we’re a special interracial couple.” No, we’re just two people. If you’re going to treat us that way, we are all going to be fine. So that was kind of the attitude.

Mary later on said, “Why did you do that?” [Laughter] But we had a nice meal. We did. We really had it. They kept bringing the food out. People in the kitchen made sure we had good stuff.

	M:	That’s key. And where was that again about?



	H:	Somewhere in Georgia maybe. But definitely in the middle of places that hadn’t really had the Civil Rights Movement changes take place. Well, I’ve got to go.

	M:	Okay. Do you have time for just one more interview? H:	Sure, of course. Yeah.

	M:	It’s only one.



	H:	At your convenience, because you have busy lives. I’m retired. You tell me and I’ll bring some of the stuff that I talked about back. Some of the stuff.

	D:	We’ll be fine too. H:	Let’s go ahead.

	M:	Just quickly. So Dana Swann made it sound like the sheriff in Ocala, the head of the police, was sort of a little more older, I guess, and not as involved. She mentioned a Chief Deputy Geiger. They weren’t sure if they’d spelled right, who was a little more active and a little more actively menacing. Do you remember that figure at all?





	H:	No, because Dana had day-to-day connection with Ocala. M:	Okay.

	H:	We would only be there for the day. Rarely did I ever spend maybe one or two nights there. Dana connected. Dana was family. Yeah. Right. I guess I told you about how we exposed these private clubs. Dana couldn’t be there, because Dana was already known. So it had to be somebody who could join. This was when these White restaurants became private clubs upon the passage of the Civil Rights Movement. And they came up with a way with exposing that. Dana would have that day-to-day interaction with Geiger and stuff like that.

	M:	So you didn’t deal too directly in that sense.



	H:	No, again you’ll really get a lot of this information from Betty. Betty Wright, which is now Betty Wright Blakely. So the next time I come, I’ll have connections to her and to Marilyn Sokolof. And some of the other things I said I’d bring. Some of those documents kind of things.

	M:	So thank you very much. H:	Oh yeah, sure.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:  Derick Gomez, January 5, 2014 Audit-edited by: Anupa Kotipoyina, May 1, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019