AAHP 585; McCutcheon; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 585 Pat McCutcheon 7-13-1996

Interviewed by Janet Snyder Matthews and Nina Denson Rogers on July 13, 1996 116 minutes | 58 pages



Abstract: Interviewers Janet Snyder Matthews and Nina Denson Rogers sit down with Pat McCutcheon, an African American elder from Lee County, Florida to recollect his life story. He recalls that his father moved to Lee County to become an independent vegetable farmer. He remembers that many African Americans in Lee County acted as truck farmers, growing fresh vegetables for transportation and sale around the country. He recalls that his mother worked as a cook for prominent families in the Fort Meyers community. However, the arrival of the Great Depression plunged his family into economic hardship, with the majority of their savings in the bank lost to the crash. He credits the Depression to the death of his father in 1933, explaining that he died from stress. McCutcheon recalls the layout of Fort Meyers during the 1920s, including details about its residents and their relationships to one another. McCutcheon recalls the collective style of parenting employed by members of his community, in which families watched out for each other’s children. He recalls the significance of the Dunbar School—opened with donation money from the Black community—which educated African American teenagers in Fort Meyers under the leadership of Professor Dixon, a relative of McCutcheon on his father’s side.





Keywords: [Lee County, Florida, Black community, family history, farmer, agriculture, Great Depression, Fort Meyers, Dunbar School]



AAHP 585

Interviewee: Pat McCutcheon

Interviewers: Jannet Snyder Mathews and Nina Denson Rogers Date of Interview: July 13, 1996





[Follow up to an interview done in 1995, AAHP 597 Pat McCutcheon]



	JM:	Six at the Lee County Planning Department. And this is an interview with Pat McCutcheon and he lives at –What is your residence?

	PM:	2633 Lafayette Street, Fort Myers, 33916.



	JM:	And I’m Jan Mathews and Nina Denson Rogers is also here and we’re doing the interviewing. Mrs. Rogers is kindly operating the technical equipment. Mr.

McCutcheon, let’s start if you don’t mind and first of all thank you for being here and giving time which I know you don’t have a lot of. Let’s start with your full name.

	PM:	Mack P. McCutcheon. JM:	M-A-C-K?

	PM:	Right.



	JM:	And what’s the P for? PM:	Pat.

	JM:	Pat, P-A-T?



	PM:	That’s right.



	JM:	And when were you born?



	PM:	Fort Myers, Lee County, Florida. JM:	On?

	PM:	October 25th, 1921.



	JM:	And you were telling Mrs. Rogers and me a minute ago about birth certificates and how it worked.







	PM:	I have a birth certificate. The one-hundredth birth certificate in Lee County. Back in the time when I was born, most people recorded the births and birthdays in the bible. Primarily Black people. But all people did it because that was a way of life. If a doctor delivered you, you got a birth certificate and Dr. Velasco delivered me at my home, my parents’ home, and I got a birth certificate issued right here in Lee County by Ms. Owens, she was the registrar taking care of the births on the local level and she lived on either Heitman or Cottage Street. I’d pass by every day because I see her sometime to speak to her, I knew Ms. Owens.

	JM:	And what were your parents’ full names?



	PM:	Mack McCutcheon, my daddy. Gerstella McCutcheon, my mother. JM:	How do you spell Gerstella?

	PM:	G-E-R-S-T-E-L-L-A.



	JM:	And Mack was M-A-C-K? PM:	Right.

	JM:	And he wasn’t a Mack P? He was just Mack. PM:	Right, yeah.

	JM:	And where did you fall in their family? Were you their first baby or their third baby or?

	PM:	First. And their only one. JM:	Ever?

	PM:	Yeah.



	JM:	You’re an only child? PM:	I’m an only child.







	JM:	Ahh. Do you know what year they were born and where?



	PM:	They are originally from South Carolina. My mother was born in Columbia, South Carolina, in 19… 6! I cannot recall the date of birth of my father, he was born in Sally, South Carolina.

	JM:	S-A-L-L-



	PM:	S-A-L-L-Y.



	JM:	Y.



	PM:	That’s thirty-three miles from Columbia going west towards Augusta. Well my daddy came here in 1915.The farmers, especially those that –as independent farmers- knew how to run their business, there were people in packing companies that produced fertilizers and seeds. Getting people to come down had been well versed in farming, my daddy was a farmer in South Carolina, and he came here as an independent farmer. A truck farmer. And what I mean by truck farming, one that produces fresh vegetables at a certain time of year to feed the nation. That’s a truck farmer. Tomatoes, peppers, cucumbers, eggplants, all different sortsa greens, things like that. Now that’s what he when he was a truck farmer. And I can remember when the majority of the farmers in Lee County were truck farmers especially and most of the farmers were Black men and all the farming was down south of Edison Avenue in the Wallis Toles Subdivision. I knew Wallis Toles and the name that was given in the community to that subdivision was Toles Deadman. Now don’t ask me what that Deadman meant because I don’t know, but I just call it what I heard the older folks call it.

	JM:	How’d they spell Toles?







	PM:	T-O-L-E-S.



	JM:	And Deadman? D-E-A-D-M-A-N?



	PM:	Deadman was not a part of his name- JM:	It might have been someone else’s name.

	PM:	Just that location was Toles Deadman. Why the Deadman was there, I cannot tell you. But I knew many of the farmers. The Black farmers primarily and they were farming in that same section and other sections. They were all independent farmers, not share croppers. These people farmed for themselves.

	JM:	How many acres would your dad farm? Did he have a certain area that he-



	PM:	He had a certain area, but I don’t know what the acreage was, but there was a large amount of farming done there.

	JM:	If you drove there today, would you know where it was today? PM:	Oh yeah.

	JM:	So where was it today if you had to lay it out?



	PM:	All you’d have to do is now get up and leave here and go out to the recreation center and where the Vance Addiction Home is and the STARS Complex. All that was farming section! That was great farming section. From the Seaboard Railroad, going east to Ford Street was all big farming through in there. And that’s where the biggest of the farmers farmed at. So that section.

	JM:	And it was all truck farming? And did they ship their cops out on the railroad. PM:	Yes. Yeah they shipped their crops out on the railroad. They packed em at Big &

Bigger Packin House and any other packing house that would allow them to pack em there because the packing house was for-profit organization because Big &







Bigger sold all the seed and everything that he packed. They packed the crops there and Big & Bigger had a packing house and a seed and fertilizer place on… Where the Justice Department now is, that building. The street there was the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad freight station and half of it was Big & Bigger Packin House and Seed and Fertilizer Store.

	JM:	Musta been something to walk into a place like that at shipping time for a little boy. Lot of activity. So your dad had truck?

	PM:	No. He had a mule and wagon. My daddy had a mule named Jenny and everything was on no truck. It was truck farming that was the title of it.

	JM:	Truck farming crops.



	PM:	But the horse was did with horse and wagon until the farmers, the one or two, got able to buy an old Model-T truck. Then the truck to have to do the work.

	JM:	Did Jenny also low? PM:	Yeah.

	JM:	Jenny was the plowing mule too? PM:	You had a mule to plow.

	JM:	Did you live in town? Was your family house in town? PM:	Yeah.

	JM:	Where was it?



	PM:	I lived at –Where I’m living today was our home house. My daddy owned that whole square that is squared in or encompassed by Cranford Avenue on the east, Evans Avenue on the west, Lafayette Street on the south, and St. Charles Street on the north. Whole house was on St. Charles Street right near Evans







Avenue. My daddy owned all that property, the whole square. ‘Course he didn’t sell it all off. He sold of some off it, half of it because I’ve sold some of it off since I’ve been a man. I still own the south part of the square on Lafayette Street, between Evans and Cranford, and that’s where I live today.

	JM:	So that was a source of income as well? Managing the property.



	PM:	Not managing the property. My daddy had three old shotgun houses he managed to get up for rent. And why I call em shotgun houses is the old straight- A frame houses and he rented those houses. Dollar and a half or two dollars a week or something like that. I can remember all the people that rented from him. Some of the… What do you call a person that’s a part of a family? Offsprings?

No it’s something else.



	JM:	The children of somebody?



	PM:	Some of the children here now, their children’s children are still here. JM:	Oh yeah they’re descendants.

	PM:	Yeah descendants, that’s the word. I knew the word, but I couldn’t get it to come to me.

	JM:	So some of em are still around?



	PM:	Oh yeah! There’s a lot of Black men that were farmers and other business in Fort Myers and helped build and to make Fort Myers and Lee County what it is today. They were very instrumental in the progress of Fort Myers and Lee County and a lot of their descendants are here today. Sometime we get a chance to tell em about some people wants to know. They’ll ask the question, “Did you know my granddaddy? Did you know my daddy? What did they do?” Most people don’t







make it their business –Let me change that, rephrase it. They want to know about the people, but they will not ask or do not ask, I don’t know why. But there’s people here that can tell em -there are very few of us left- can tell em about their grandparents, tell em about the parents -some of em don't know em- their great grandparents and what part they played in the building and progress of Lee County and what they did.

	JM:	So you know that some of the things that you know that was very obvious to you coming up are things that not a lot of people know today.

	PM:	That’s right. ‘Cause I made it my business to try to find out and remember as much about this as possible. Now you see Ima fact, I’m an actual fact, not a fiction. When I tell something I seen it. JoJo the neighbor across the backyard fence didn’t tell me this, I saw it with my eyes. I have visible recollection of it.

	JM:	That’s perfect for what we’re workin on as you know. That’s what we need to know, is what you know. So your father leased or rented the land he farmed on and a lot of other big farmers did, but he could buy the land that was also another form of enterprise and build rental houses. Did he build those rental houses with his own hands and from whom did he buy that land?

	PM:	My daddy bought that land somewhere between 1916 and 1920 and he bought other land, a couple of years they had good crops, and he bought other land down on Cranford Avenue and my daddy built a hotel, a stone building. He didn’t build it with his own hands, he had it built, but after having a good year of farming he did that and he built a whole block of wood building to join that hotel in the eighteen-hundred block Cranford Avenue because that’s what was booming then







primarily as the hub of the Black community, where all the business and everything was. It was on Cranford Avenue, from Guava Street south to Orange Street right at the railroad where the Atlantic Coastline crossed Cranford Avenue. And in that section it was something else, that’s where it was, everything was there and Black people owned those businesses. Black people didn’t own all the property because the Heitman family had a block of buildings in there, it was just north of my daddy’s buildings and they would just across the street from Rich Barker. Rich Barker was a Black man, he had block of buildings there too and there was another man, Fats Brinkley, he had some buildings there and it was… Watson, Henry Watson Senior -We all called him Big Watson because Watson was a big strappin fellow and was just a well dresser too. He has two boys here now.

JM:  What did he wear? He was a well dresser.



	PM:	He wore the best suits that money could buy at that time. He liked to dress real well. That was a part of him. His name was Henry Watson Senior and we all called him Big Watson. He had a block of buildings there.

	JM:	Was he big? Was he tall? PM:	Yeah he was a big tall fella. JM:	Black suits?

	PM:	Nah he wore any color that he was able to buy not only black- JM:	Hat?

	PM:	Yeah he wore a hat. JM:	Fancy shoes?







	PM:	Hmm?



	JM:	Fancy shoes?



	PM:	Fancy shoes. Well-dressed man. If he wore a good suit, he had to have good shoes. Shoes like Stacy Adam and Florsheim, shoes like that. He had two boys. Another one is Spencer McCully, he has some sons here now. Thomas McCully and Robert McCully and a daughter Luldie McCully-Jewitt and they have all their children. And you see how many just go back-

	JM:	Three generations at least.



	PM:	Three generations, some maybe four generations. Now these people –Now of course the McCully boys and the Watson Boys they know about their daddy’s day. They can recall back in their families. And there’s Lloyd Brown and his brother Hal Brown “Spec.” We were all boys together.

	JM:	Describe your mother and father for me. Do you mind doing that? How’d they dress? What did they look like? What was your mother like? We know something about your dad’s business activity.

	PM:	My daddy was a farmer, he didn’t dress up. He wore good workin clothes and that’s what he’d be in most of the time, because he’d be workin all the time on that farm. Goin and comin at night watching the water and gettin the fields irrigated and everything. My mother dressed the casual dress as most ladies did at that time. The fancy dressin at that time was Sunday go to meetin clothes. You put on your best clothes to go to church on Sunday and everything. They had nice dresses and the men had nice suits. You mentioned a black suit just now and I told you that Watson was dressed in any suit that he was able to buy –and







he was able to buy. But most of the men wore black suits back in old days. Especially one made out of, it was a slick black cloth doeskin-

	JM:	Doeskin?



	PM:	Doeskin and blue serge.



	JM:	Doeskin and blue serge. Very popular, very attractive.



	PM:	My mother was an excellent cook. One of the best there ever been in Lee County and there are plenty of people, White and Black here, that will tell you that; verify the statement. My mother used to cook for some of the prominent families here in Lee County, Fort Myers. ‘Cause I remember the last family my mother cooked for here, they were workin George Thompson. The man, the founder of United Telephone of Florida. They lived down on Williams Drive right off of McGregor Boulevard. My mother worked them for years. She was their cook, was the head of the house butlers and maids and everything and my mother was in charge of that kitchen. My mother cooked with em and helped Mrs. Wiltshire. Her son has a cleaners right down the street here, the Wiltshire Cleaner. That was Bud’s Cleaner. I know Bud like I know myself. Know when he got started in the cleaning business. My mother worked with her until she became just a housewife and doing no work at all. But during that time there was a woman to help a man to succeed and if there was any way to succeed or have any kind of success, he had to have –and that’s a true sayin- a good woman behind him to push him and give him the initiative to work and have something.

	JM:	So how’d they do it? Your dad, your mom, they come, he farms, she works. Did they save their money in a bank? He invested in land.







	PM:	Yeah.



	JM:	How’d they-



	PM:	They saved money in the bank and invested in some land, but now some of those fellows had made a pretty good bit of money. See, back in that time if a man had five or ten thousand dollars in the bank, especially a Black man, boy he was something, he was up there. My daddy got caught, so was a lot of other people who got caught in the crash in 1929 and 1930.

	JM:	Almost everybody.



	PM:	Everybody. And at that time my daddy had- [Loud beep]

	JM:	What do you think that means? R:	The tape is running out.

	JM:	Already.



	R:	Not quite.



	JM:	You gotta flip it. Got it? Sorry. PM:	See in 1929-

[Loud beep]



	PM:	And 1930 my daddy had fifty-thousand dollars in the bank. The Bank of Fort Myers. There was three banks in town.

[Loud beep]



	PM:	The Bank of Fort Myers on First and Lee. Then there was the First National Bank on First and Hendry.

[Loud beep]







	PM:	And there was the Lee County Bank at Main and Hendry. That was the financial circle, the Bank of Fort Myers being the most popular bank at that time, that’s where most of the Black of the people-

[Loud beep]



	PM:	Banked. And that bank, they went broke. The bank closed, the bottom fell out.



My daddy lost his money- [Loud beep]

	PM:	In that savings. And I remember the Bank of Fort Myers paid dividends on that money one time. Five percent and my mother got it and you know what five of fifty-thousand dollars is twenty-five-hundred dollars. That’s all we ever got out of it-

[Loud beep]



	PM:	She ever got out of it.



	JM:	Twenty-five-hundred dollars on fifty-thousand-dollars.



	PM:	Fifty-thousand. But we had some land they didn’t lose. My daddy did lose some property that he had mortgaged that he was building up.

[Loud beep]



	PM:	But some of the property he didn’t lose ‘cause I own some of the properties today.

	JM:	So properties that he owed continuing payments on he might lose, but he had others that he didn’t-

[Loud beep]



	JM:	Continue payments.







	PM:	Yeah my daddy had some mortgaged property that he lost and the property was mortgaged to who went, the man signed the note for the properties originally Frances Bailey over on Sanibel Island.

[Loud beep]



	PM:	‘Cause he was friends with all the Black farmers and they used to go over and help him.

	JM:	Are we still going? R:	Uh-huh.

	JM:	Okay. Shall we change it now? [Break in recording]

	JM:	That’s really important. So he also dealt with Frances Bailey? PM:	Yeah.

	JM:	So what was the arrangement about the land with-?



	PM:	I don’t know the business arrangements. I know some of the land didn’t have a mortgage foreclosure on it. But I was too small and young to know anything about the business arrangements.

	JM:	But he would farm… Some of his farming involved Frances Bailey?



	PM:	Yeah the Black farmers, there was no connection there as sharecroppers or half- owners or partial owner when you divide it. There was a contention there that the farmers, the Black farmers, would help Frances Bailey –they were farming on Sanibel too- gather his crop and get it to market after their crop was going, the crops would come in see. Of course there were several Black farmers other than my daddy. There was Doc Beayler who had a… Store like… Handy Food Store







the local convenience like store. At that time we call em neighborhood jot em downs.

	JM:	Jot em downs?



	PM:	Jot em downs meant you could get credit and you would pay the bill on the weekend that was a jot em down. He had a little and he, Doc Beayler, farmed and he had two or three houses for rent. There was Shelly Chester and his brother Tom Chester. Shelly was a farmer. He in here in town and then he moved out to Harlem Heights and bought a big tract of land out there and he farmed it out there for years. There’s another farmer out there… John Thurman, he lived out to Harlem. He was a big farmer out there –and Joe Tyson. But right here in town, my daddy, Mack McCutcheon, Pauldo Sutton, Doc Beayler, Joe Jones, maybe there’s somebody’s name I missed but it’ll come to me later in the conversation. They were farmers right here and Pauldo Sutton was also a mailman. He was the mailman that transported all the mail between the tails –see the trains was no airplane, the trains was the mode of transportation at that time. There was two railroads comin in and between the two railroads in the winter time there was six trains comin into Fort Myers a day, four in the summer time.

And Pauldo Sutton took all the mail from the post office to the trains, from the trains to the post office. He got a big caged in truck and we used to like to ride in the truck to get a chance to see the trains and we pulled them big sacks of ail in and out of them trucks to see the train. ‘Cause I remember seeing the Silver Meteor when the Seaboard got the station ready down there, when it first came into Fort Myers. We was with the mail tuck down there lookin at it. We have a







love for trains. From where we livin, where I today, you could see the train two blocks of either side of my house because coming down Palm Avenue, that was not a street at that time. That was the Seaboard Railroad’s roadbed to Naples, where their track was. And the trains used to pass goin down to Naples and we could see em from there. And down Evens Avenue there was Atlantic Coast Line roadbed right next to Evans Avenue and Evans Avenue was a dirt trail and we could see all the trains there. I got to love trains and I model trains now, I’m a model railroader. Not a toy train buff either, I’m a model railroader. I’ve got some if you see, you’d doubt if I tell you about it unless you see it. There was a Homer Cox. He has some grandchildren, great grandchildren here, nieces and nephews. He was a property manager and real estate man. Spencer McCully, there are some of his sons here now –grandchildren. He was a real estate man.

	JM:	So he sold land and houses? PM:	Yeah.

	JM:	And the property manager was someone who managed rental property or property for someone el-?

	PM:	Yeah, mmhm.



	JM:	Made a commission on managed property for someone else.



	PM:	Yeah, well that’s what a property manager do or either you hired and pay em a salary to take care of the property. There was Rich Barker, he owned a lot of property, Dr. Velasco, Frank Moore… Now these fellas had made a little money in other businesses, they all were not farmers. Some were storekeepers and some had restaurants and other businesses. Jake Norris had a butcher shop on







the corner of Cranford and Mango. Well he was the only butcher I knew around at that time. Well he was the only Black butcher and he was one of the only few butchers around in the whole area. He had a little red brick building he used to store there. And he lived on Anderson Boulevard which is now MLK Boulevard.

	JM:	Where did he buy his animals or did he slaughter them as well? PM:	You could buy meat right here.

	JM:	So-



	PM:	Goes out the eastern section or the Buckingham section, there was quite a bit of slaughterin of cattle and hogs going on there. The Higgenbottoms and the Whiteheads and them was big cattle people out the Alva side and you could buy anything you wanted to eat.

	JM:	What year did the Silver Meteor come to town when you were down there? PM:	1926 or 1927?

	JM:	How many cars in that train? That must have been something to see.



	PM:	I don’t know, I was just lookin at the train back then. It wasn’t the kind of cars that you see now. These silver streamline cars. They were what you call heavyweights and they were all painted Pullman-green, that was the color that green, that dark green. But they were heavyweight cars, but they had all the insides on these cars just as fixed up as, just as good, as the ones you see today or better. But that was the outside. Then if you wanna see a heavyweight car, there’s one now. That car, the Atlantic Coast Line South Wind used to pull that same car in here and the South Wind was Chicago train, Fort Myers-Chicago.

Course the West Wind ran on the Seaboard and the South Wind on the Coast







Line. And that was a Chicago train. They put on the Chicago train in the winter cause on the Coast Line was a train that ran the New York trains, the Havana and the Champion. And on the Seaboard was the Silver Meteor and the Orange Blossom Special. And those were the fine trains, there was other trains that came in. Especially in the winter time when they would put on more trains cause all the people had to get down this way by trains clear on down to Naples. And that’s where both railroads –excuse me- that’s where both railroads button up and stop because this was supposed to have been the way to Miami. And there was no towns between Naples and Everglades so the railroads, I know the Seaboard buttoned up. The Coast Line had come in here and hadn’t gotten no further than Naples. Course the Coast Line come here in 1904, but the Seaboard buttoned up in Naples. That mean they stopped and they went back up because there wasn’t enough towns to support the railroad. Cause after they left Naples, wasn’t nothin but Everglades City and the wasn’t nothin. And all that land had to be developed through there because at that time they was building the Tamiami Trail too, 41. The Seaboard went back up to Wildwood and it came down through middle Florida where they’d have more towns. There was a whole lot of things.

What I need is somebody to know just a little about some of these things where we could ring up some more subjects and em into discussion. Now Jake Johnson’s daddy was a farmer too.

	JM:	Yes. Was it unusual for a little boy to fall in love with the railroads the way you did, as much of your life as they were a part of? And now you actually have model railroads.







	PM:	No, it wasn’t an unusual situation because at that time little boys loved trains. They could see a train and you could get him under control. Course we were under control anyway with good discipline from home. Either you will do or you don’t or you’ll get a whopping or you won’t. That generated good discipline cause you knew you was gonna get it. The neighbor whopped ya. Over on the next street around the corner, and then when your mama or papa come home, whoever got home first, they day, “Well ole Pat was a bad boy today. Don’t tell me nothing.” That’s what my mama tell me, like write it on me again. And that went for all the children. That’s the difference between the children back in that era in time and the children today.

	JM:	You’re saying the whole neighborhood became you parents. PM:	That’s right.

	JM:	And was responsible for you. PM:	That’s right. And you-

	JM:	And you were responsible for behaving for the whole neighborhood.



	PM:	The whole neighborhood. And that was a way of life cause people was livin closer and according to the scriptures, the word of god. You know god tells us, tells mankind, in proverbs to put that rod on him. You’re not gonna kill him with a whopping. That will straighten him out and bring him to his sense of reality. Now man says, “Don’t whop him or I’ll put you in jail.” Your own child.

	JM:	In your neighborhood, who were your neighbors who felt that kind of responsibility for you?







	PM:	All the neighbors, that went for their children too with my people and everybody’s people. All the neighbors and everybody is your neighbor.

	JM:	Who were your nearest neighbors?



	PM:	People that rented from us. All the people we knew, and we knew everybody- R:	By name.

	PM:	By names, everybody knew. I knew somebody stayed ten miles from me. I knew em by name and I knew em by sight. We had good neighbors, Ole Charlie Price. Prices were our neighbors. They lived on Lafayette and Cranford. He owned, now that had a home up there, on Cranford. They lived here in Pinetucky right over here cause he owned that whole block there where the Catholic Church is. And there were some Black families that lived over there.

	JM:	Did he rent those houses?



	PM:	Yeah, there’s people still there, some of em. There’s some that’s here now, the grandchildren. He was Dr. Velasco’s daddy in law, that was his father in law. He married Dr. Velasco’s daughter Leila, Leila Bea, she and my mama was good friends. They lived there on Cleveland right where that Kelly Tire Company, that was Leila Bea’s and Doc’s house and right across the street where the church is, that was Leila Bea’s father, the man Charlie Price. And it went all the way down to the next street, Heitman Street, He owned everything there and right across the street from his property was Le Memorial’s old hospital.

	JM:	And did he manage all his property himself? PM:	Yeah!

	JM:	He did?







	PM:	Mmhm. Got family here now, the Sanderson family. JM:	Do they still own their land?

	PM:	They used to live out there, rent from him. There were several people that lived back up in Pinetucky on Clifford Street, Tournament Street. Back of the laundry, Satchell had a laundry facin Cleveland and all his help was Black and all those people lived back in there! Black people lived back in there! That’s Pinetucky.

	R:	Tournament and where else?



	PM:	Tournament and Clifford. Most of those streets back… Victoria, most of em back west of 41 back in there right off 41. And Satchell had a laundry right there where… [tapping fingers on table] Right between Hanson and Victoria, facing 41. And all his help was Black folks.

	JM:	Now tell us about your –if you don’t mind- tell us about your home life. Your mother was a cook, a fine cook, a cook in demand. What’d she cook at home? How did y’all live? What was kind of your life style during the week? You said your dad would be out and irrigating the fields and all that. I guess with ditches I guess? Right?

	PM:	My daddy would go to the field every day. He had to keep watch on that field cause my daddy was a professional farmer, he was a grower at heart. He had to learn that, he was well versed in it from Carolina before he came down here. My mother worked for… Let me tell you one other while it’s on –my grandmother cooked at the Casa Ybel Hotel in 1912 when she first came here over on Sanibel. She brought the girls and they had a son. She had two sons, one of em













JM:



PM:

died. She brought em down here in 19-something now. But I know they would go to school in Columbia and come down here and go to school so.

What was her name?



Who?

R:

Your grandmother.

JM:

Your grandmother. [Simultaneously]

PM:

Fannie Mitchell.

JM:

Fannie Mitchell.

PM:

Mmhm.

JM:

And so she had those children and she would cook over there

PM:

Yeah.

JM:

At the hotel?

PM:

Yeah.

JM:

So she was a fine cook too?

PM:

Yeah, like my mama.

R:

Which hotel? What was that hotel?

JM:

Casa Ybel.

PM:

Casa Ybel.

JM:

What were her children’s names? The ones who came with her, would go to



school in South Carolina and go to school here.

PM:

My mother’s name, Gerstella. See my grandmother at that time was a Watts.

JM:

W-A-T-T-S?







	PM:	Yeah. My mama’s father, the children’s father, he’s John Watts. My mother was named Gerstella, her sister was Betty, and her brother David.

	JM:	Was she the oldest? PM:	Who?

	JM:	Your mom. PM:	No.

	JM:	Of those three children. PM:	No. David.

	JM:	Was she the youngest? David then Betty then your mom? PM:	No. Rearrange em.

	JM:	So your mother cooked, her mother cooked before her. Tell us what were some of the things she was proudest of that she cooked or that was a big moment when you all had it.

	PM:	[Chuckle] She could cook anything right from scratch, no recipes. [Loud Beep]

	PM:	If someone had a recipe she could cook from that, but she could cook anything.



Everything she cooked was good so… Prides herself on what was put before you. That was as they say so at that time you eat-

[Loud Beep]



	PM:	What I cook, what I put before you. It’s not like the children of the day, “I don’t want this, I don’t want that. John wants pancakes this morning, Willie wants eggs, Barbara wants-

[Loud beep]







	PM:	Hash browns and all that.” So you had to pride your food cause you was told to eat what was put before you. And when you eat different, you are grown big enough-

[Loud beep]



	PM:	Old enough or able enough to provide your own food. JM:	When it’s your own decision you can decide.

	PM:	That’s right. But you’ll eat what’s put before you and everything that was put before you was good.

	JM:	Sounds like most anything on your table- [Loud beep]

	JM:	Would’ve been attractive. How about your father’s parents?



	PM:	I don’t know anything about em. I knows, not his mother and father. I knew a couple of his brother –excuse me-

[Loud beep]



	PM:	And a sister. One sister. That sister lived and a brother in law lived, on the old plantation property.

[Loud beep]



	PM:	Now they owned this. It’s a big plantation land they lived at. I don’t know how it is now because it’s been a long time since I’ve been there but the last time I was there, there were some McCutcheons owned that property and-

[Loud beep]



	PM:	Out in Salley and Wagener, South Carolina., that’s out from Columbia. Since that atomic plant went up on the Savannah River-







[Loud beep]



	PM:	Between Savanah... Aiken, South Carolina and Columbia, South Carolina, life changed up in that [murmuring]. Cause I remember one time goin there and termites had moved out of all the houses, the rats had been gone and I go back another time. Ten years later, everybody was livin in new brick houses. See that a-

[Loud beep]



	PM:	That atomic works changed a lot of things through there from the old style… [Loud beep]

	PM:	To a new modern way of living. So I don’t know anything about my daddy’s parents, but I did know Lonia Washington, is sister.

	JM:	Lonia. L-O-N-I-A? Something like that probably. [Loud beep]

	PM:	Yeah.



	JM:	Lonia Washington. PM:	Uh-huh.

	JM:	His sister. PM:	Yeah.

	JM:	And she was up at Salley?



	PM:	Yeah. Her husband’s named George Washington. I knew Uncle George good.



Some of their children- [Loud beep]







	PM:	Been down here with us from time to time. Got a daughter now we keep close contact with in… Detroit. And she has-

[Loud beep]



	PM:	Her, well Uncle Cecil, that’s my daddy’s brother, Now there’s quite a bit of children of my Uncle Cecil scattered around through New Jersey and-

[Loud beep]



	PM:	New York. Cause we all keep contact and live in other towns in South Carolina.



We all keep in contact with her.



	JM:	Your mother’s mother, Mrs. Watts- [Loud beep]

	JM:	Did she then stay here? Did she live here for years and years?



	PM:	Oh yeah. She lived here and she died here. But her name was… See John Watts-

[Loud beep]



	PM:	Or my grandpa, he died in Hartford, Connecticut. He was there visiting his brother. And my grandma married Mitch Mitchell and her name became Fannie Mitchell. He lived right here and my grandma had a home, her own home and everything. She died right here.

	JM:	Where was her home? [Loud beep]

	PM:	On Lime Street. It was 29 Lime Street. They had single numbers at that time and double numbers on houses.

	JM:	Did she cook most of her life?







	PM:	Yeah, mmhm. [Loud beep]

	JM:	I wonder how big the Casa Ybel Hotel was when she cooked there. It must have been pretty good size.

[Break in recording]



	JM:	Starting take two. I wonder what kind of size the Casa Ybel was. I’m sure it was the pride-

	PM:	It was one of the prides of the island, but I couldn’t tell you what size it was. JM:	Did you ever go over there?

	PM:	Yeah.



	JM:	Well can you describe it because we can’t-



	PM:	No I was a small boy! I can’t describe Sanibel Island, I didn’t live there, I would go there and visit, comeback. We used to go from right Downtown Fort Myers here. By the Gladys and I’m trying to think of that other steamer, right at the foot of-

	JM:	There was a Dixies.



	PM:	Hendry Street. Yeah the Gladys and the Dixie.



	JM:	So you’d get right on there at the foot and just go all the way out?



	PM:	Was it Hendry Street or Lee Street? It was one of em, it was right on the riverfront. Because riverfront was right there at Bay Street, it was no Edwards Drive. Bay Street was, right at the river was the docks, the Kinzie docks and the seawall was right there. And the packing houses, the Lee County Packing House. What’s the man’s name? He was a big fruit man and they had a big







packing house. Got a big home, the house is still sitting there today. I think it’s some kind of organization in that house now. Right at Fowler and First Street, I believe that’s where he put up that home, years and years ago. Right there across the street and near the Burroughs’ old home. Big red and white brick building. Kingston! Ralph Kingston. They were there. Then there was the big fish man who ran Smoot-Johnson Fish Company. Lee county Packing House. Big rustic rent down there on the riverfront, the Gondola Inn, the D’Alessandros ran that. Probably these young D’Alessandros daddy’s and uncles and things, I knew all of them. I know Joe the District Attorney. Pete, his brother, the president of Barnett Bank out at Cypress Lake. George was running for sheriff down in Collier –running for sheriff here in Lee County! George D’Alessandros. I know when all of them was little boys. I was well acquainted with their daddies and there was a whole family… I don’t know what else.

	JM:	Well now when you all would get on the boats and go up there and made certain stops, it took a while I’m sure.

	PM:	Make no stops.



	JM:	Take an hour or two to go straight that way?



	PM:	[Inaudible 00:55:44] I don’t know what the time was going up the river? JM:	Mmhm mmhm.

	PM:	We would just, the Gladys would go into Punta Rassa and right on across to Sanibel. The Dixie would go straight on over to Sanibel right on –see you come right out the mouth of the river, you’re in the Gulf and the island’s right across in front of you.







	JM:	I thought there were some stops at Wolfert and a few other places. PM:	At where?

	JM:	At Wolfert which is over by Punta Rassa. PM:	Yeah it stopped in Punta Rassa. Yeah.

	JM:	did your grandmother spend the week there?



	PM:	My grandmother stayed down there during the season and then she’d come home here in Fort Myers before she went to South Carolina. See my grandmother had her own home here. She had built a house here.

	JM:	And her house’s on Lime? PM:	Yeah.

	JM:	And she owned that house outright and stayed on it?



	PM:	That’s right, that’s right. Course I remember my mother selling that house to Ms.



Lisa Peels after my grandma died. She wanted to buy it, they had some other properties and then she wanted to combine the property and my mama sold her that place. We all lived in that house at one time. One house or the other. Let’s see what else… There’s a lot of… Well there’s a good handful of Black folks played important parts in Fort Myers and Lee County, the building and the progress of it. Course Black people had some good jobs, it was all noted as jobs during that time, you didn’t have a position. But in today’s language you could fit in as a position.

	JM:	You’ve mentioned before when we talked, other than today, about people who had major responsibility for major entities in the town. A Black man who managed one of the major hotels. People who took-







	PM:	No, I never did tell you Black man managed a major hotel. JM:	Well-

	PM:	I told you Black people did all the work in the major hotels and they had charge of a lot of things. They didn’t manage the hotels!

	JM:	What I was getting at was I just wondered if you could give us a couple of those names and sorta describe what they did because I think that would be an important thing that isn’t a part of any other record.

	PM:	Oh okay. Most of the help in the hotels at that time, hotel like the Bradford and the Franklin Arms, the major hotels, and the Royal Palm, most of the help was Black. Even the kitchen help was Black. The chef cooks were Black then. That cook had charge of that kitchen. He wasn’t the manager of the hotel, but nobody, the manager or nobody’d tell him what to do in the kitchen. They’d tell him what they wanted done. They didn’t tell him how to do it. Then there was the bellboys or the bellhops, those were the primary help in the hotel and the maids. Black people had charge of the crews, the bellhops and the maids in the hotels, taking care of the hotel and actually ran the business. All but the front desk!

	JM:	The managing of the keeping of people, the managing of the rooms- PM:	That’s right.

	JM:	The buying of the food for the restaurant, the ordering of it.



	PM:	If you was a good cook, a good chef cook would buy the food in any business unless that business had a maître d’ that specialized in that if it’s a cookin business. And I know good cooks like C.H. Russ, Henry Harvey-

	R:	Mae Ola.







	PM:	Gold Pitts. Now these were master chefs. Herbert Lawrence. Now these chefs did all the cookin to all these major hotels. These were major chefs. Let’s see who else. See Gold Pitts, I named him, he was down at the Bradford for a while. Herbert Lawrence was at the Royal Palm. Royal Palm was a hotel now that was a rich and well to do. They were right at Fowler where the Sheraton Inn is now. They were sittin right in there, two old big wood buildings. The Royal Palm hotel for the rich and well to do and Herbert Lawrence was the chef. I remember when they tore that hotel makin room, tore them down makin room through there for something they’s doin. They was filling in that land.

	R:	Henry Harvey, where was he?



	PM:	Henry Harvey, that’s Helen’s daddy! R:	But where was he?

	PM:	I don’t understand it.



	R:	Where was he? Bradford or- JM:	Which hotel-

	PM:	The Royal Palm. No no wait a minute now, you’ve got me mixed up. That was Lawrence at the Royal Palm. Henry Harvey too was at the Royal Palm.

	JM:	What year did your grandma die? PM:	1962.

	JM:	She did live a long time. How about your mother? PM:	1971.

	JM:	And your father?







	PM:	1933. My daddy never did get over his losses and the bottom fell out at the bank and he died. It eventually killed him, it worried him to death. Cause he had no way of ever comin back to get that kind of money back during that time cause things didn’t get no better. Things got tougher and rougher.

	JM:	In 1933 they were awful.



	PM:	Yeah, so he had no way of ever getting back in the position to have fifty- thousand dollars. I had a good stepfather. His name was Chapell and he worked for the Heitman Clothing Store which in 1934 sold out to Sidney David. He was a tailor to the trade. Design, cut and make. I picked up that trade when I was going to school.

	JM:	Did you?



PM:  Yeah, high school and he had his own business on First Street. So I’d tell people, I say, “We had our own business on First Street in the theater arcade.” Right next door to Sidney David, downtown Fort Myers in the 1930s and 1940s.

	JM:	And he could take fabric, cut it out-



	PM:	Design it and cut it. Make his own patterns. JM:	How’d he do it? Where did her learn?

	PM:	I’d have to carry you through the course to tell you how he did it and you’d need to go to school for that.

	JM:	But how did he learn?



	PM:	He learned it from the tailors in Philadelphia. JM:	What was his first name?

	PM:	He was C.H. Chapell.







	JM:	C.H. Chapell. C-H-A-P-E-L-L?



	PM:	Uh-huh. Jake knew him. Jake Johnson knew him. We used to work on Jake’s clothes and Jake’s brother’s clothes. Anybody that had nice clothes. Course we had so much work there Downtown in our shop there that we had to hire out.

There was another Black tailor here and we’d give him work, he was out on Cranford. He didn’t much to do out there, his location. His name was Walter Matthew and we used to give him work, kept him goin good. There was another Black tailor here that worked with us Downtown in our tailor shop. His name was Frank Stone, but we ahd our own business.

	JM:	That’s a complicated thing to make men’s suits. I’ve sewn enough to know that a man’s suit is more like a house than a dress. It has all those interfacings and linings and stuffings and paddings and-

	PM:	That’s right-



	JM:	Everything is just so. PM:	That’s right.

	JM:	I’d like to know how long it took you to learn to make a fine suit because that is not an easy task.

	PM:	That’s a practice in the profession. You never learn, but you improve. You’re always practicin.

	JM:	Always learnin.



	PM:	Learnin something new.







	JM:	Which undoubtedly why you are so aware of what people were wearing. You can go back in your memory and kinda do that because you were very attuned to that.

	PM:	Yep. There’s something else I wanted to tell ya. Somebody mentioned about a manager, a Black manager in a hotel which there was no such thing.

	R:	But who were some of the maids and the bellhops? JM:	Well the people who-

	PM:	You can’t name all them people it’s been fifty or sixty years ago!



	JM:	What’s interesting is what you’re describing is the managing of the entire operation except for the front desk and the bookkeeping. I mean you’re talking about managing the operation on two major fronts.

	PM:	Now in the Bradford Hotel, which is right down near –see where the fort- the old fort used to be right behind the Bradford Hotel facin the river. That was part of the Bradford Hotel cause the boiler room was there, for all the hot water and the heat goin into the hotel. And all the fellas that worked around downtown in the noon hour and in the evenin and in the morning before it was time to go to work, would gather there at the fort because the Bradford Hotel’s help lived in the fort [pounding on the table]. The fort was a big old wood thing for the soldiers, you know, during the Seminole War. Let’s see now. There was William Haley, Mont Turpentine, Henry Jackson. You might have known Henry Jackson [directed towards Rogers]. There was somebody else that lived in that, they were bellboys. James Brown worked in the kitchen, he used to live in that building. All us fellas would gather there in the boiler room and talk cause there was from across the







street in the Boston Store, right across the street in front of the arcade, next door to Evanton Park was a Boston Store. And the colored fella in there was the man Joe Wootin and Joe is livin right today up in Marianna. He went back home to live, I saw Joe the other day. He always sendin work and Joe is Mel Toria’s daddy... Joe is Jimmy’s daddy. Jimmy’s up there now, but those are his children and Joe is, let’s see what’s the other girl’s? There’s another one here too. She teachin or she’s done retired. What’s her name? And I know em all… Joe was, just might as well say he was the manager over there with Manny because there was two Jews, Manny and Joe Starnes. They owned the store, but Joe Wootin worked for them and he ran them and he ran the store and it was the Boston Store. And right down the street there, next to Sears and Roebucks, Sears and Roebuck was on the corner of Lee and First, I believe it’s Lee… It was Foxworthy clothing Store. Spencer James was the manager there. Len Foxworthy owned it, but spencer was the man, he was the manager. And he his brother is here now, Solomon James. Janella and Solomon, Janella is his sister in law, Solomon his brother, the live right here, I knew their whole family lived over there on Thomas Street. See Janellla and Solomon live right on Brook Hill now. But now there was a place that I look like, that I recall, old man Isom Bridgefort. We called him old man cause he was old man then when I was a young man. He worked for the Lee county Bank and he was one of the most respected men in town, White and Black people both respected him. And I tell you what-

	R:	Isom who? Who was- PM:	Isom Bridgefort.







R:   Bridgefort?



PM:  Uh-huh. Not F-O-O-D. F-O-R-T or F-O-R-D.



JM:  What did he do for the bank?



	PM:	Everything to be done in there, but he was not a teller. But he cleaned it up, takin care of it. Knew more about what was goin on then the bank than anybody else. And he bowed to everybody, I don’t care who you were or who you are, old man Bridgefort had a good word and he bowed to ya. And that won him the respect all over. And there was Louie Perkins, Sonny’s granddaddy. His daughter’s there now, cause one of his daughters was Sonny’s mama. She and I was in the same class in school. She lives up there with papa and Barbara and Cal. Louie Perkins worked for the First National Bank and he done everything there.

	R:	This is what time? What period? 1920s or 1930s? JM:	Thirties.

PM: Nineteen... Louie was workin for the bank and old man Bridgefort was too, when I was big enough to know them so it had to be in the 1920s and the 1930s and the 1940s.

JM:  Well how long did you stay involved in the tailor shop? How long did Mr. Chapell have it?

PM:  He died in forty what… 1945.



	JM:	You’re in high school at that point.



	PM:	No, I was out of high school. I came out of high school in 1940.



	JM:	Didn’t you get involved in McCollum Hall when you were still in high school? PM:	Yeah.







	JM:	You want to tell us about that?



	PM:	That wasn’t no livin, I had to make a livin. That wasn’t no livin business. That was somethin on the side that we was doin for –me and Emanuel Banks- was doin for sport and the good of the community, cause Emanuel Banks had been in that business and we got tied up there with… He asked me to come in there with him to help him book the bands, cause I kept it after he moved to New York. That was somethin, I was going to high school then. You know, we were booking bands and he was too, we was in high school together. Cause his wife, Dorothy, was Edgar Lee Barker’s sister’s child and Rick Barker’s daughter. And he married Dorothy. I started foolin around with him with them bands before we got ole McCollum Hall, cause all the dance, public dances used to be right across the street there in old Grand Theater and around K.P. Hall on Lemon Street… Yeah Lemon Street!

	R:	You said you did it for sports, but now was Manuel doin it for sports? You- PM:	Manuel’s dead, he ain’t doin it for nothing.

	R:	No I mean at that time, was he doin that for his job or was that-



	PM:	His job. Well we did it too for the money that could, if we made any money out it. R:	Oh.

	PM:	For the money we could make out it. R:	But that wasn’t his main job?

	PM:	No his main job was the porter at the… I’m trying to think of the name at the barber shop. Cause he was at one barbershop Willie Jones was at the other,







Willie Jones was at the Broadway barbershop. Charlie Powers was at the –See all these barbershops had porters.

	R:	Oh really?



	PM:	Yeah back in that time. And they’d shine them shoes, them guys made good livin shinin shoes and porters at them barbershops didn’t have to pay. They didn’t have to pay no rent, no light bill, or nothin. They just kept the shop clean and kept everythin streamlined in that that shoe shine business. Those guys back in them days, them guys made a hundred dollars a week shinin shoes, back in the days like that. I can remember, I made a hundred dollars in a week a lot of times there doin alterations on clothes.

	JM:	I bet you did.



	PM:	Yeah, when I was going to high school then. 1938, 1939, cause I didn’t finish high school until 1940.

	JM:	Well the Grand Theater and the K.P. Hall were places that he booked bands- PM:	Yeah.

	JM:	Here on the weekends I guess.



	PM:	Any day you had an open day. You bid for days to try and get the days on the best –If the weekend was your best for your territory you had to bid for those days. You couldn’t just go in there and say, “I want such and such a day.” Maybe you caught a break and got a good middle of the week day! Say a band goin from St. Petersburg to Tampa to Miami. They played Tampa Friday and gonna play in Miami Sunday, and they got Saturday open, that’s when I first played Duke Ellington here.







	JM:	What was that like? PM:	1947

	JM:	How’d you do it? Who did you call? PM:	The bookin agent in New York!

	JM:	And you just say whatever you got comin down to Tampa, St. Petersburg, Miami, to catch you on the way?

	PM:	Once you were in the business the bookin agents would let you know. You’d get feelers out. Advance notice if you was a registered promoter and we were a promoter. And I actually got a good date on him, I couulda got other dats than this.

[Phone rings]



	PM:	But they had played St. Petersburg that Thursday and they were gonna play… no they’d played on… Yeah cause I got Duke on a Friday night which was a good thing, we just broke even. They played St. Petersburg at Thursday and was gonna play Miami Saturday and Sunday and they had an open day then there on Friday and I got him comin right through. I called William Morris, the Morris Agency in New York, they were the big time booking agency. William Morris, them big show people now that bookin agency in New York downtown. Moe and Tim Gail, the Gail Brothers and who else? Somebody else was a big time that I did business with. But that’s who I got Duke through, William Morris.

	JM:	For instance how did it work? Did you have to guarantee money upfront- PM:	Yes mam!

	JM:	Or a percentage or how did you do it?







	PM:	No you guaranteed money upfront for top notch attractions like that. If you got a mediocre band, you could work on a percentage basis. Nobody workin on a percentage basis when they got big, but they could get guarantees everywhere, they didn’t have to even notice you talkin about workin on a percentage basis.

And then you had to put up some of that money in advance.



	JM:	You were a very young man when you were dealing in this kind of thing. PM:	We had… We could get the money.

	JM:	How’d you get the money? Did you always have it?



	PM:	Nah I’ll be tellin you somethin that I haven’t told any other people. JM:	Well you don’t have to tell me but-

	PM:	I’m not gonna tell ya.



	JM:	Well tell me what you can tell me, it sounds complicated to me. PM:	[Speaking over Matthews] Ain’t nothing I can tell you about it. JM:	Oh no not about the money.

	PM:	No.



	JM:	So you had to say up front how much it would be, you made a deal with the William Morris Agency.

	PM:	No they’d tell you what the attractions sold for. JM:	Oh.

	PM:	Mmhm. And then you’d come together on, the contract would be negotiable for both sides either up or down, down a very little and up a whole lot. Then… Then we could work it out and sign a contract, set the attraction. When I got Duke back in that time, 1947, he was fifteen-hundred dollars a night going through on an off







night. Of course they had a day between playin times, St. Petersburg and Miami, they had an open date. It cost fifteen-hundred dollars and had to put up five- hundred advance with the signin of the contract. And they give em the other thousand dollars and the money had to reach three-thousand dollars, twice the guarantee, for it to go into percentage. That would give the promoter a chance to make as much as the attraction and then go into percentage sixty/forty. So we made it, we just did too [laughter in his voice]. Yeah that’s the first time Duke had ever been here. I got Count Basie on one of them same deals too. He had a Sunday night open and we did good. Didn’t play him at McCullum Hall, I played him at my own business, at Club 21. I had built a business of my own, a nightclub. The building is still there right now on the corner of Ford and MLK, Ford and Anderson/MLK [Anderson was renamed to MLK]. And it’s a big ole nice building, I built that building in 1959, 1958, and [19]59. I had some money and I made some money and I won’t tell you how I made that, so don’t ask.

	JM:	[Laughter]. PM:	And we built-

	JM:	You heard that question coming did you? PM:	Yup.

	R:	How long was you there at Club 21?



	PM:	Well I had it before I built that building there. I had bought it at a IRS sale. It belonged to Stumpy Ellis at that time and the Treasury Depart him on income tax. The IRS, they had a public sale and they asked me about buying it. They







sold me, they had him here on the Big Still right across the river just as soon as you got across the old Edison Bridge.

	R:	Mmmhm.



	PM:		They sold all that. When they asked me did I want to buy it, the property -course I had another old place I had been runnin, I had run pretty good, it’s the Shriner Club now right on Fountain Street. The IRS office in Tampa asked me if I wanted it, they sent men a letter, “did I want to bid on it?” And I believe I got the last, got the property, liquor license and all for eight-thousand dollars and of course that was IRS sale. That was the thirteenth liquor license issued in Lee County at any time cause that number, you can go by the number you can tell the number it was forty-six-thirteen. That was cause this is forty-six this is the district and that thirteen was the number of the license. It was a good license and I wanted that license man, cause it was a package and bar. And you own that kind of license you can set up as many bars under the same roof as you would like in your buildin, servin from all doors. Then you have your package store, drive-in, walk- in, everthin. So I bought it for eight-thousand dollars. I had ten-thousand dollars and I loaned, I’m tryin to think of the old man man, so he could -I didn’t want the Big Still- they asked me did I want that too. But that name, Vanderhorse or Vandermill or something. He was one-thousand short on buyin the Big Still and I let him have a thousand dollar. I got my thousand dollar back now. Snag Thompson was sheriff and I know I was gonna get my thousand dollar back. That was the best friend I ever had in Lee County. Now I won’t tell you nothing about him that you don’t already know, so don’t ask me nothing about this person.







	JM:	[Laughing] Yes sir, I won’t.



	PM:	All I can tell you is he’s the best sheriff ever been in Lee county. Snag Thompson, Flanders Snag Thompson. He was my best friend I ever had in Lee County.

	JM:	Flanders Snag.



PM: Flanders Snag Thompson. He was the sheriff here for twenty-four years. JM:  Well you were involved in some very big business.

PM: I was involved in some businesses that I don’t talk about. And it’s my business and the other people’s business that was in the business and nobody else will ever know anything about it.

JM:  Would you mind telling me what it was like to engage these big bands and then when they came to town, how’d they come and where’d they stay? Were you in charge of all that too?

PM:  No. We’d help em get somewhere to stay, but they had to pay for their own lodging.

	JM:	They did?



	PM:	Oh yeah.



	JM:	You didn’t have to be on the hook for all that?



	PM:	No, no, no, we paid them to play and that’s all. They were travellin in their big buses like Trailways, Greyhound, all these bands. Most of em had their own buses once they got up big time enough to do it, like Duke and Count Basie and Louis Armstrong, all of them had their big buses. They would sleep on the buses. They had it arranged so with their travellin schedule, when they got into a small







town, they wouldn’t get in there until the day they were playin. They would get there that morning and they would rest on the bus. And then if they were Black and they was goin from Tampa to Miami, they had got lodgin in Miami. But I could get places to stay here in private homes, see. But they could get lodgin because there were Black hotels in Tampa and Miami, St. Petersburg, and Palm Beach, places like that they could get. But they would stay on the bus, rest on the bus and everything. There was a place for the bus to park when they first got in. Course most of the buses had toilets in em and we’d get em off the main street parkin and then go in the … In the places to play where we were gonna have the attraction and they could use the restrooms there and everything. But old man Jim Crow didn’t allow em to stay Downtown. Not only in the smaller towns, but in them big towns, at least where there wasn’t no Black hotels.

	JM:	And they were so famous.



	PM:	Yeah, but that was their own expense. I didn’t have nothing to do with that. JM:	Did you get to know any of those people.

	PM:	Sure.



	JM:	I know it was a business and they were in a hurry, but…



	PM:	Yeah, got to know em when you playin em year after year, sometimes three and four times a year. I got to know B.B. King so good I had him here so regular so, he saw me I didn’t see him, he saw me in Rochester New York. He was playin, I went down there just to hear him and he was standin in the bus door at that big coliseum in Rochester, New York. And he hollered and called my name. I said,







“Who know me here in Rochester?” And it was B.B. King standing up in the door of the bus.

	JM:	Hah!



	PM:	And I walked over there to em. I knew all them fellas, or several of those fellas that played with B.B. King, fellas I knew before they got with B.B. King. Like old Fletcher out of Tampa and fellas that was playin with em. Lionel Hampton, I saw his band somewhere and there was some fellas playin with him that I know and I had gotten to know Lionel pretty good, see. This is in 1942, Lionel spoke to me and I hadn’t seen Lionel for a couple of years then.

	JM:	Is he named for the train? PM:	Hmm?

	JM:	Is he named for the model train? PM:	Whose name?

	JM:	Lionel King? R:	Unh-uh, no. PM:	Lionel is a- R:	Well known.

	PM:	Is a trade name for model trains. The biggest model train builder ever was, Lionel Trains.

	JM:	Well I know. And you’re such a train buff I wondered if he had got that name or if anybody-

	PM:	No, Lionel Hampton was a big time musician- JM:	I know!







	PM:	Like Duke and Count Basie and Louis Armstrong, Lionel’s still livin today. Big man in New York, owns a lot of property and things there.

JM:  Did you travel to New York a lot?



PM:  Yeah I used to go to New York all the time.



JM:  Because I mean you’re becoming a part of a very small world. This entertainment circle.

PM:  Yeah, I used to go to New York every summer in the summertime, sometime two and three times a summer. And sometime I’d be up there three and four weeks at a time. See cause my business in that was in the winter, that’s for the people.

JM:  Very seasonal wasn’t it? PM:  Yeah seasonal, that’s right.

JM:  Do you mind telling us a little bit about your dad’s relationship with J. Collin English? How that started and-

PM: Now these were grown old men. [Loud beep]

PM:  But I knew they were friends.



	JM:	Yup, let’s just flip it so we don’t have to- PM:	They farmed together but now-

	[Break in recording] JM:	Thank you.

	PM:	And they were good friends and they did business together. J. Colin used to come to my house to see my daddy and my daddy’d go to his house to see him. But now gettin down into their business I don’t know, I was a small boy.







	JM:	But it was as you recall, it was farming to start with.



PM:  Yeah and what other business I don’t know, I know it was farmin. But Jim can tell you more about it than me, Jim English. He’s one of the sons. He’s still out there on the old English place.

	JM:	Well you’ve mentioned more than once they were friends. And it certainly is important what English’s role was in education in this county and in the state.

	PM:	Well the State of Florida knew what English’s ole was in education in the State of Florida. He was superintendent of Lee County Schools and then he went on to be state superintendent of education-

	JM:	And you see-



	PM:	For the State of Florida.



	JM:	And the fact that the Fort Myers has a high school to educate Black students for the first time, way ahead of so many other counties, while he’s superintendent. And then the fact that after he is state superintendent some of these major people like Professor Dixon then go somewhere else and start, like Sarasota, to start a high school for Black students. The English factor becomes important, but you’re the one who’s raised it more than once.

	PM:	Well, Professor Dixon was a relative of my daddy. Now how they kin, they was some kind of cousins in some kind of way.

	JM:	Really?



	PM:	Yeah, when my daddy was little I used to see Prof Dixon, we all called him Prof. Prof would be to my house regular than I would, to see my daddy. I used to see my daddy out at school all the time to see Prof Dixon. This was after Dunbar was







built. So that played something in there, some kind of way. But I’ll tell you that our people in Fort Myers, Lee County got that school. The people, the Black folks in Lee County had been pushin for a school on a small scale. But they had, I believe I have tell you that there was some Black men here, very important [pounding on the table]. Not only my daddy, there were several more. There was Rabbit McCully, Spencer McCully, there was Homer Cock, Doc Beayler, Doc Velasco, Robertson… I’m tryin to think of his first name. Douglas Robertson know my daddy, he was a big insurance man. Rich Barker and them and they were all in good standin here. As good a standin as could be expected during that time and era with the White population, who the White people respected and recognized. And then the Black people raised a whole lot of money too, towards buildin that school. Whether the school board has records that you can show us, you cannot even find it in the archives of the school’s record on the buildin of the Dunbar and Edison Park schools. I doubt whether they recorded this too much, or made too much of it. Black people raised a lot of money [pounding on the table]! My daddy gave two-thousand dollars [pounding on the table] towards the building of Dunbar, I know that! And then there were some other Black men that gave money up in the thousands, fifteen-hundred, money like that. My daddy gave two-thousand dollars and this went a long ways on buildin Dunbar School and there was a lot. See Dunbar is built right after Edison Park. Edison Park and Dunbar are built on the same plans and there was a lot of money and stuff left, material, from the Edison Park to begin the Dunbar with. And the Black folks had







gone and got up the monies, something had to be done and the people recognized this.

	JM:	According to the state superintendent’s report, Dunbar cost a hundred-thirty-five- thousand and if you have people even giving, say from what you’re describing, it wouldn’t have taken too long to get ten-thousand dollars, very close to ten percent which is quite unusual.

	PM:	Yeah well, I will be willing to say and to take a stand on it, there was as much as ten percent raised among the Black people in the community for the school.

	JM:	You would have been around six when Professor Dixon first came to Fort Myers? PM:	Professor Dixon was here before I… before we went to Dunbar.

	JM:	Yes and can you just kind of describe him from when you first remember him? PM:	Now I’m a small boy.

	JM:	I know, I know.



	PM:	I can’t go back to Dixon like when I’m a boy four or five years old. R:	Facially?

	PM:	I could describe his physical condition. JM:	Yeah do that.

	PM:	He was a tall, Black man. Bald in the front part of his head. He was tall and he was kind of on the thin side. Structurally he was erect and he carried himself in a composing position that all the time he tried to carry himself as erectly as possible, looking distinguishably at all times. And he had, you know like some people’s jaws sink right in here, they did here on Prof’s face. With a rough, gruff







voice and a tough attitude and he wasn’t playin. And that’s what it took and he got the job done.

	JM:	And I would imagine all those individuals who invested knew their money was well spent because of that man.

	PM:	Yeah. Okay now Black folks themselves, some Black people of today may argue this point, but they do not know. They’ll be arguing about something they heard. Pat McCutcheon’s givin you the facts. The Black people had a good view of this school from the beginnin through the initiate the buildin of the school, they could see the future of what this school would turn out, just what the Black people had envisioned. And the White people too. They got a lot of help in Dunbar from rich White folks. Course there wasn’t no rich Black folks to give nothin, but these few little men around here could give two or three dollars that had a little money of their own. But they had rich White folks that give thousands of dollars like the DuPonts, Crowninshield. Well Ms. Crowninshield was A.I.’s sister, DuPont. All that’s the same family. And there’s Ed Ball, he was brother-in-law and manager of A.I.’s part of the DuPont empire. They had the backin of all these people.

Fleischman, the yeast man down in Naples. And the Campbell Soup man. He used to give the school little things all along. Miss Edison! These are the kind of people that took interest in Dunbar.

	JM:	Pullman?



	PM:	George Pullman. Made little Pullman cars. All them rich people, see there’s more millionaires in Naples than in all the rest of the State of Florida and that include Miami Beach and Palm Beach. All these people took interest in Dunbar. They







wasn’t there every time you look up you see them there, but they made arrangements for Dunbar to get something some kind of way that benefited Dunbar. Especially Miss Crowninshield and Miss Edison.

	JM:	You see them?



	PM:	Sure.



	JM:	At the school, where?



	PM:	I’d see them at the school cause we’d have many programs and things to honor these people and see em then. I was a small boy, but I was big enough to recognize and know who I was lookin at.

	R:	[Laughing].



	PM:	Cause I had seen em too in public life other than the school. I’d see Edison on the street here in Fort Myers in 1929 and [19]30. Ford, Firestone, all them would be right downtown there to see. And they had, it was a president came here. I don’t know whether it was Nixon or who. They had it out that that was the first President ever visit Fort Myers. But I stood against that. And there was some other people stood against it. That was a lie. Herbert Hoover came here in 1930! Not what you told me or she told or somebody else told me, I’m talkin about what I’m lookin at. Herbert Hoover.

	JM:	Where’d you see him? PM:	On First Street.

	JM:	Did he make a speech? PM:	No.

	JM:	Was he vacationing?







	PM:	No, here came by, he was guest of either Henry Ford or Thomas Edison, or it might have been all of em gettin together because see they started the Edison Bridge in 1930 and they finished in 1931. So there wasn’t no way out of Fort Myers northbound but the old wood bridge, down there off of Fulton, or Royalston, came out over to Old Bridge Park in North Fort Myers unless you go clean down to 31 down the Alva side and go across on 31 on that old wood swinging bridge. That used to be a wood bridge goin across, I remember goin across a lot of times. There was just room for cars to pass like that, one goin one [laughing].

	JM:	What should we have talked about that we haven’t? Is there something you’d like to talk about that we haven’t?

	PM:	I know when Lee Memorial was a wood buildin with four, six, four or six rooms in it there on Victoria between US 41 and Heitman Street, I think that’s the next street down there. It stood right across, right about where Jim Long’s law office is now near Grand. It was up this way because it was Heitman Street and it stood right across in front of there where the Catholic church property, where old man Price has his property. That was Lee Memorial. And it was a wood buildin, I know that. And now, nobody didn’t tell me this, we used to play around it cause we would go up on this side over to Pinetucky to play with Scott Glover’s and T. DuBor’s children. That was let’s see now, Mary and… Was Rose...? One of Scott Glover’s children was Rose. Scott and Rosa Glover’s children, they lived there in old man Price’s building there on Victoria. Mary and Sonny Boy and Nora and the other sister, I’m tryin to think of her name she moved to Baltimore, she died in







Baltimore. We used to go over tryin to play with them and they would come over and play us on the other side of town. And they were T. DuBor’s-

	R:	Teek?



	PM:	T. T. T. T. DeBors and don’t ask me what the “T” stands for cause I don’t know, but we all called him T. Dubors.

	R:	Are these the two Black families on Pinetucky?



	PM:	They weren’t the only ones, there was a heap of Black families out there. R:	You would play with Nora?

	PM:	As children yeah. Cause T. had some nice lookin daughters there. Nichi was pretty. Nichi DuBors. What was Nichi’s real name or was it Nichi? We called her Nichi. And there was Iona. Me and Iona was in the same school, in the same class in school. Louise DuBors, Louise married Russ, C.H. Russ the chef cook. There was Sonny Boy DuBors, course Sonny Boy DuBors, T’s son and Bottley, Bottley Glover, used to work. That was Mary Glover’s brother, you probably remember Mary Glover [Directed towards Rogers], worked for old man Hawkins when the Coca Cola plant was over there on Heitman or Cottage Street in old man Hawkins’ yard. He had it in the back in the old tin building. And we used to go over there and peek through the cracks in the tin building and watch em, old Bottley and Sonny Boy wash dem bottles all day and get dem bottles straight and bottle that soda water all evening. Wash em that night, bottle soda water all the morning, Coca Cola, and then lift it on the trucks all the evenin before he built the building that they burned down. I know when that thing went up on the corner of 41 and-







	R:	Edison.



	PM:	Edison. I know when that soda was bottled in his backyard.



	R:	Now tell us about the other hospital, our hospital, the Black hospital. What year was that… the first one ya know, of course there’s a second one?

	PM:	Jones-Walker? Jones-Walker was there when I knew anything about it. It was already there.

	R:	That’s the first one.



	PM:	But I know Miss Olita [Candis] Walker and Miss Melissa Jones what they were named after. I know them, the hospital was there.

	R:	Now that second one was built what in the-



	PM:	In the [19]60s… Was it 1960 or…? No, I can’t recall the year, but it was along that era of time.

	R:	When it came? Probably stopped in the [19]60s. PM:	Out on Lillie Street?

	R:	Mmhm. It stopped in the [19]60s. I’m talking about when it was first put up though, the second one, not the first one. Cause in [19]65 or somethin when I came here it was like goin stompin, nobody else was goin there. But when was the place put up built?

	PM:	You could out to Lee Memorial yeah?



	R:	Yeah cause Integration and all that was comin then. But when was it first built, do you remember? That second one on Lillie Street where the apartments are now.

	PM:	I don’t know, but I was big enough to know because we used to cross there every day, goin from school. I used to walk through that comin through Kinzie Court off







of Lime Street walking right down the Seaboard Railroad on the wye goin to school to Dunbar. And it was built during that time, but it was built durin while I was goin to school and came out of school and I came out of school, this is the first one, I came out of school in 1940. I have to search my records. Wrote down a whole lot a stuff and look up -I got all this stuff down somewhere, but I don’t know what I did with it, I done had it out.

	R:	Did Lee Memorial have something about Jones-Walker you think in there?



	PM:	Jones-Walker was an entity, a subsidiary of Lee Memorial and Jones-Walker was a Jim Crow hospital.

	R:	I’m talking about the records, do you think they kept any? I don’t know.



	PM:	They might have. You see before… Now the first Jones-Walker was on High Street. The second one was on Lillie Street.

	R:	They just tore the building down from the first one on High Street?



	PM:	Although wasn’t it more houses dressed down around there? Now you know, the more shotgun houses?

	R:	Yeah someone said that they thought they tore down this one.



	PM:	They tore that one down? I’d have to go by there and see it. Then I would know.



	R:	Yeah, let me know. Cause I was under the assumption that was still there, but someone said that just this June somebody knocked it, but I don’t know.

	PM:	They might have knocked it down, but I don’t pay no attention to it. I used to because I used to pass it every day cause I’d be goin out my way goin up High Street.







	R:	Because if it still is I want to take a picture of the -I mean just the part of it, it’s just a shell of what it used to be- but I still want to know if it’s still there. Someone said just this summer that they knocked –they thought anyway. Go ahead now I’m through. What else?

	PM:	So you think they would take you? Because I know they took my Grandma over to Lee Memorial and operated on her.

	R:	And brought her back?



	PM:	And brought her back. Wasn’t no, what do you call that room that they put you in?

	R:	Like a recovery room.



	PM:	Recovery. They put you in no recovery room. R:	Yeah I know.

	PM:	If you was a person of color, you couldn’t go into the recovery over at Lee Memorial, they brought you right back to Jones-Walker.

	R:	Yeah and that shoulda been very excruciating, they just operated on someone and then bring them over the ruck.

	PM:	Yeah, they just operated, they done my grandma like that. And if I know what I know now, then Lee Memorial would probably be paying some of us, or my sons and my grandsons and my granddaughters from now on. Boy the knowledge is here now, but it wasn’t there then, and you couldn’t put it to practice then. But if you could have then, boy I’d slap something on Lee Memorial, they long would remembered my name.







	JM:	But can you imagine how, I mean apart from the trip, can you imagine how different the care must have been?

	PM:	Yeah!



	JM:	Missing the equipment, the recovery room equipment. PM:	Yeah.

	JM:	It’s so important. Plus if there is an emergency, how often today do people have to go back into surgery-

	PM:	Alright now,



	JM:	While they are still recuperating.



	PM:	Now, in the old Jones-Walker, that was on High Street, the old wood building, they had two rooms upstairs where they put the patients, everything else was downstairs. They had but four rooms, it was built on the same plan that the first Lee Memorial was built. In the new one, when they built the brick building or the new one, see that was block building, I will say a brick block building. On Lillie Street they had one great big wardroom and the private rooms was the work rooms over there. And it was a whole lot different in the care now, you had mentioned somethin about care. There’s as much difference in the care to either one of those Jones-Walkers and Lee Memorial as there was between night and day, and that’s dark and light. I’m gonna have to leave y’all. What else do you want to know now?

	JM:	This is just anything you wanted to add to what we covered. We’ve been through my questions. We could talk to you forever of course.







	PM:	Yeah, if I just had the time. I could get on something you’d have to ask me –I could tell you about some things you’d have to ask me to stop.

	R:	You want me to stop it [directed towards Matthews]?



	JM:	Well let me first just say thank you cause I know you didn’t plan to stay this long. But I think we’ve covered a lot. And the next step will be, this will be transcribed and then you can take anything out, add anything, fix any spellings, have a look at it. And then we’ll go from there.

	PM:	Okay.



	JM:	But I want to thank you because that is very very interesting.



	PM:	Now they brought me a copy of a transcription. That must be from our last one. JM:	That was from our previous-

	PM:	I never read it. JM:	Well that’s alright.

	PM:	I’m not satisfied with what we went through.



	JM:	Well there’s a new one now. Don’t waste time on that one, I’ll get you the new one. And if you want to some morning we can go over it here together cause it’s hard to pick up and go through.

	PM:	Yeah.



	JM:	I can show you exactly what were- PM:	But I will be sure to get into this one. JM:	This will be very important.

	PM:	Cause this is where I wanted to begin with. And then come up to some of these other things that some people were callin for so and so, to say this and say that.







You know I was gonna to tell it like I want to hear it and like I can see it today, but I don’t know nothing about the foundation that was laid for this to be here today.

	JM:	I agree.



	PM:	I don’t wasn’t to know nothin about Hope House. I see it up there and I know how it got up there. I want to know who caused Hope House to be there.

	JM:	Absolutely, and this is a great beginning. PM:	Yeah this is the beginning.

	JM:	And this is the beginning of your material, so just your material. PM:	Yeah.

[End of interview]



	Transcribed by:	Julian Cutler Valdivia, October 2, 2019 Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero December 9, 2020 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, April 14, 2021