AAHP 182; Adams; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 182 Jane Adams

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Marna Weston on March 13, 2009

23 minutes | 16 pages



Abstract: Jane Ann Adams was Vice President of the University of Florida at the time of this interview. A White woman, she was interviewed for AAHP to share her perspectives on diversity at UF given its relationship to her position at the university, and because of her role in supporting the programs “Celebrating the Firsts,” which between 2008 and 2009 commemorated a number of first Black graduates of different UF majors and programs. Vice President Adams and interviewer Marna Weston share a dialogue reflecting on the events themselves as well as their significance.





[Keywords: African American History; University of Florida; Integration]























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 182

Interviewee: Jane Adams Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: March 13, 2009



	W:	This is Marna Weston for the Sam Proctor Oral History Program in the offices of Jane Adams, Vice President of the University of Florida. Thank you very much Vice President Adams for having me here today.

	A:	Thank you. It’s nice to be here. I’m glad you came over. W:	Thank you. The date is March 13, 2009.

	A:	Friday the 13th.



	W:	Yes, of course. And in changing around the whole dichotomy, flipping the paradigm on what Friday the 13th means, the University of Florida has entered a new era recently. We are currently looking at making sure, under our new administration of President Machen, that we recognize many of the deficiencies of racial relations and promote diversity in the most positive way. And that’s linked to our discussion today. Could you first please just state your full name?

	A:	Okay, it’s Jane Ann Adams. W:	And your date of birth?

	A:	July 23, 1953.



	W:	And where were you born?



	A:	I was born in Chicago, Illinois.



	W:	Oh, terrific. My brother lives there. He’s an elementary school teacher. He did his master’s at UC and his undergrad at Oberlin.

	A:	Oh, really? I was born in Chicago, lived there until about I was seven and then we moved to Springfield, so I was actually raised in Springfield, Illinois.





	W:	Wow, the land of Lincoln and the land of Barack Obama, which certainly enriches our conversation on diversity.

	A:	Yeah, I have to tell you that throughout the entire campaign when they would show video of President Obama in Springfield at the old state capital, announcing his campaign or announcing Joe Biden as Vice President, it was just fun to see my hometown in that light. It was great.

	W:	So, we’re talking about Barack Obama and Chicago for just a second. How do you see the tenor of diversity in the country with the advent of the first African- American President, and how does that relate to the University of Florida and our mission?

	A:	I have been so pleased to see the widespread support for the President. It just gave me chills to watch the inauguration and to see all the people in the Mall. I have attended a couple of inaugurations myself and the one that we saw last January was stunning and wonderful and motivating. I still get chills talking about it and thinking about how many people were there. Even though I wasn’t there, everyone I talked to who attended talked about how friendly the crowd was.

Everyone was happy and friendly and hopeful. I think that positive attitude is important to the recovery of the country. I think it’s important to the recovery here at the University of Florida, and I just hope that sense of cooperation and hope and wanting to work together and accomplish things will find its way down to the Florida legislature.

	W:	Yes, I agree completely. I had the great fortune of standing with our former Provost, Dave Colburn, at the Ocora at Pugh Hall when the inauguration took





place. I haven’t yet gone back and done an interview with him, but we exchanged some very interesting comments. From reading his African American Heritage in Florida, some of his other literature, we know how committed he is to the study of those issues.

	A:	Let me just throw something in. I’m reading his book now, and it was so interesting to me, of course I’m not a native Floridian, and so I’m still learning some of the history, but he talked in there about St. Augustine and the fact that St. Augustine was going to have a four hundredth celebration of its founding.

They didn’t do it because of the—can I stop here just a second?



	W:	Of course.



	A:	The dog has arrived.



	U:	We have a little baby that’s shaking because daddy has left. I just think she wants her mommy. She’ll sit here quietly while we do this.

	W:	She’s so precious. Is she—What kind of dog is that? A:	She’s a Chihuahua-spaniel mix, we’re told.

	W:	Okay, this is a black dog, very cute and she’s sitting on Vice President Adams’s lap. Boy or a girl?

	A:	It’s a girl.



	W:	And what’s her name? A:	Porsche.

	W:	Porsche.





	A:	She had four litter mates. There were five puppies in the litter and the foster mother named all of them after cars. So we kept the name; we haven’t changed it.

	W:	Well she’s precious. And so quiet. How old is she? A:	Thank you. Eleven weeks.

	W:	Eleven weeks, wow. Well now you were talking about Dave Colburn’s African- American Heritage of Florida and the revelation that you had from reading it.

	A:	Right. So it was interesting to see that the city, the community of St. Augustine was wanting to do some kind of a celebration for the four hundredth anniversary or whatever the anniversary was, of the founding of St. Augustine and didn’t do it, and apparently didn’t get a lot of support to have it done because of the racial issues there and the community not being very diverse. It’s interesting to me because we are now working with the city of St. Augustine on commemorating the four hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the founding of St. Augustine. There’s an effort underway to have the university have a presence there and to take over the historic buildings in that area and to make it part of the University of Florida.

So we’re working with the community on that. So it was interesting to me to understand why, fifty years ago, it wasn’t celebrated and now why it is.

	W:	It is incredibly ironic to be in these times. Especially, Mr. Dan Harmeling actually went to St. Augustine in 1964. He’ll be a member of our panel for our program, “Florida Black History: Where We Stand in the Age of Barack Obama,” on the 17th so I’m sure he’ll have some interesting reflections on Dr. King being run out





of town and his group being arrested and some of the implications of that age. What does diversity mean to you as a Vice President of the University of Florida?

	A:	Diversity to me, for the University of Florida, means making sure that the students that we educate understand how diverse the world is. It’s probably trite to say that we’re in a global economy and all those kinds of things, but clearly, students are not going to be successful unless they understand and appreciate diversity and know that this is a diverse world and the way to advance and to grow and to enhance our lives is to make sure that we are responsive to diverse interests within the community.

	W:	How do we accomplish that in a state as geographically diverse and ethically diverse and as many diverse stakeholders here at the flagship institution at the University of Florida?

	A:	It’s a challenge. I will tell you, I think it’s an even bigger challenge now than it was even maybe a year or two ago because of the budget situation. The fact that we’re taking such large budget cuts, it makes it difficult to have more diversity among the faculty, even though that is one of President Machen’s top priorities.

It’s more difficult when you’re not hiring people, when you have hiring freezes. I think it’s difficult when you consider the fact that we’re not growing our student body. We’re decreasing it, not by a lot, but we are somewhat decreasing the enrollment. Those are challenges we’re facing because of budget cuts that impact our ability to improve the diversity of campus.

	W:	We’re asked to do so much more with less these days, and also the entire demeanor of the college campus is now toward customer service in terms of our





evaluations and with the competition with so many different universities and schools that are calling themselves universities now that are just serving parts of what we serve. As a land grant institution, we’re required to serve all the people of the state of Florida. What do you think are the greatest challenges that we face in terms of diversity and in terms of some of the upcoming budget issues here at the University of Florida?

	A:	I think it’s the fact that we’re not gonna have the funds to hire people to increase diversity. Clearly, there are things we can do in a budget crisis and it’s more awareness and things like the fiftieth anniversary celebration we were able to honor and celebrate that anniversary and make sure the people who were the first graduates of the college were appropriately honored and feel like the university was important to them and appreciated them.

	W:	The February 7th gala was a great evening. I had the chance to interview several of the first on that night.

	A:	Oh, I’m so glad.



	W:	That was terrific. We’ll have to get you a copy of the video from it. But I was curious, that was the end of a year of celebration, from February 2008 to 2009. How did the idea of celebrating the first come about? I’m sure there must have been some mandate from the president earlier than February 2008. But how did that ball get rolling?

	A:	It came to my attention, because of President Machen, over a year ago, when he told me that the Black Student Graduate Association/ organization was planning to do a ball and was actually gonna have a kickoff at the President’s house to





honor the first. He asked us to get involved to do what we could to help and to provide some financial resources for it. So we became involved in that initial kickoff reception at the president’s house and then from that point on, wanted to do all we could to help to make sure that the celebration was appropriate. We went through a bunch of iterations and I may be repeating what Florida might have told you, but it started off as a ball and then the committee talked about it and we decided to reach out to Michael Blachly at the Performing Arts Center for assistance. Through discussions with him, we reached the point then we were talking about having an artist come in on that weekend and we would have a small reception before the performance to honor the first and then have a performance. The performance was going to be the day between Denise Graves and African Children’s Choir which were performing on a Friday and a Sunday. Then we faced some challenges finding the talent and raising the money. Then we thought, this is not about watching a performance. This is about honoring the people who accomplished this. So we then decided to do a dinner and to focus on the honorees as opposed to a performance, and I think we did the right thing. I think it worked out well. I heard anecdotal stories from the people who came that they felt that the University now appreciated them and that was important to them. I think it was important and emotional to everyone in the room that we’ve come to that point and we were able to honor the ones who were there.

	W:	How was the committee selected?



	A:	I can’t answer that question. I know that it was put together and that we helped to staff it, but I’m not sure who actually chose the committee members.





	W:	Thematically, the entire campus was asked in some ways to contribute, have something that you’re doing relate to the theme of celebrating the first this year. Do you think that’s something that is now continuing because of this effort and how do you see it continuing in the future?

	A:	I hope so. I hope it continues. I think one of the things that I would really like to see come out of this is finding all those people who were the first that we have lost track of. Sitting there that night and watching the honorees and then seeing the numbers of people who we believed were the first graduates of their college and then have Courtney Cunningham say, we don’t know where they are now. It was a fun evening. It was a wonderful evening, but that was sad to think that there are all those lost people that we don’t know where they are.

	W:	Those were somber moments.



	A:	Obviously, there’s not a great connection with the University of Florida, otherwise we would know where they are, and it’s our job to find them. I had some conversations with the Foundation and I believe that there will be an effort to try to continue to reach out and find those people. It was also interesting to me to watch the process that the committee went through in terms of trying to find them, and find out who they were. There were even times when they couldn’t come up with the name or they had a name of someone who the college believed was the first, but they couldn’t say for sure. So I think one of the great things to come out of this event was the fact that we found people, we identified them. We identified those that we couldn’t find, but we want to now find, and I think that’s





part of the continuation of this process, is to continue looking for firsts and making sure that we honor all those who were the first of their college.

	W:	I originally spoke to the Dean of my college, Kirby Barrick, and he mentioned similar sentiments to the ones that you are. He found himself looking through the Miami phonebook, trying to find the first African-American graduate of the College of Agriculture. When I was looking through some of the information from the College of Law from a ceremony they had in September with Judge Stephan Mickle, I saw 1946, a listing for a man named Ulysses Kitsey, and I don’t know if it’s the same person or not. I would hope to get some assistance in finding out.

But the principal of my elementary school was Ulysses Bryant Kinsey, who passed away pretty much the same weekend that the Pope did. But I think that he might be that person and the name was just spelled incorrectly and that would be interesting if my elementary school principal had applied for law school here at the University of Florida in 1946.

	A:	Wow. How about that?



	W:	As we move forward, the students that are on campus certainly should be aware of these historical memories and the opportunity to touch some of this history before these people are gone and can no longer be reached. In the last student government presidential campaign, I noted that one of the candidates, Jordan Johnson, talked about having a memorial to recognize issues like this, the first, or African-Americans and other groups with ethnicity having made contributions and some kind of a memorial at the Reitz Union perhaps. As a student at Florida State University, I did note when I was working on my master’s program, that





they have a statue called “Integration” there, which is a large, larger-than-life- sized bronze which depicts in their Legacy Walk, which has kiosks that talk about different states of integration, but, it pictorializes in bronze the first African- American homecoming princess, the first African-American student to wear a sports uniform for FSU, and the first undergraduate student who graduated. At the University of Mississippi, behind the Grove, they have another larger-than- life-sized bronze of James Meredith walking through the schoolhouse door. At UF, we’ve done more living memorials, but do we have any plans perhaps to one day do something like that?

	A:	I have not heard of those plans, but that’s a wonderful idea and that’s something we should pursue, very much so. The student government has erected a memorial to veterans at Reitz Union, which they’re just getting ready to dedicate I think in the next month or so. That would make total, perfect sense for them, or the university, either one to do what you’re saying and to have some kind of a physical presence on campus to honor the first grads.

	W:	It’s so warming to hear your concurrence with those ideas. I hope something good does happen from that. What do we do about the day-to-day student though? I’m thinking about the student that comes to the University of Florida Summer B and is preparing. They’re fresh out of high school. They’ve come for an early semester to get ready for the rigorous fall. How do we make sure they know about some of these ideas? If Celebrate the Firsts creates some type of pathway that we can evaluate or are there procedures? What can we do to make





sure that these efforts weren’t wasted but in fact, were good seeds planted for the future?

	A:	You know, I think it’s working with students and faculty to come up with a strategy, come up with a plan in order to make sure that we take what came out of that evening and to make it relevant to the students who are here today and to continue a focus on diversity. I think that would be a good idea.

	W:	What objectives would you give toward evaluating this process if you were the czar of diversity and inclusion at the University of Florida? In your mind, perhaps you have some ideas or perhaps you’ve already put some thought into this. I don’t know; this is sort of an extemporaneous question but what do you think our objectives should be?

	A:	I think it’s communication, dialogue, working with students and faculty to make sure that there’s inclusion in what we do, that students work together, that we keep looking toward what we need to do to increase diversity. We clearly need to increase the number of minority students on campus. We were making some nice strides in that area recently, but I think because of budget cuts and things, this last year was not so positive. But if you’re asking about benchmarks and milestones and clearly numbers, let’s increase the percentage of minority faculty members on campus. Let’s increase the number of minority students on campus.

	W:	Probably a more difficult question so I apologize ahead of time, but I want to take advantage of the situation to ask you, when I spoke to Florida, she mentioned that a couple of the goals that were resolved from Celebrating the Firsts that were really good goals were that we acknowledge this history, and we begin to





document through Celebrate the Firsts. And a thought that came to my mind and I mentioned it to her, the reason I’m saying it might be more difficult is cause she stopped for a second. I’m thinking, oh my gosh, I hope I haven’t said something wrong. It seems to me that it’s easy to celebrate the firsts, because when you celebrate something, well we celebrated it. Nothing is really being asked of us.

You know, we did acknowledge it. But for a more critical examination of the history of the University of Florida, what could we do to look at these issues and say—Is acknowledging and documenting enough or do we need to be more critical on our analysis?

	A:	In terms of the history of the university? W:	Yes.

	A:	We tried to be honest through this period, of the fiftieth anniversary. We didn’t want to have a varnished version of what happened, and I hope we were successful in that regard. I think we just need to be sure that we acknowledge that. I’m guessing this happened in your oral histories, I hope it did, where the graduates talked about how hard it was and how lonely they were and they didn’t feel welcome. They didn’t feel included and how difficult it was to not only try to pursue your degree, but to do it in a hostile atmosphere. So I’m hopeful that the interviews that you did will help document for the future the challenges that were faced.

	W:	Thank you, and they did mention many of those hardships. But, to the credit of the university and to anticipate the impact of what you said, they were so very pleased with that evening. Many of them said it was something that they never





could have possibly dreamed would happen. I spoke to Mr. Lee Bailey, who graduated from Fine Arts, but when on to a career in nursing or medicine related. He mentioned that to come to the celebration, he had to ask his congregation to get kind of the weekend off because he helps with music in the church and that they stood up and gave him a standing ovation in recognition of the University of Florida acknowledging his contributions.

	A:	How wonderful.



W:  He talked about what it meant to him because of those times it was very—You know, as an African-American student here in the here and now, it caused me great pause and reflection, and that’s why I mention it to you now.

	A:	Tell me, what are your thoughts? What should we do to take the spirit of the anniversary celebration and move it forward in order to improve this situation for students?

	W:	With all good interviewees, there comes a point where they ask a question of the interviewer. I’ll be happy to reflect briefly if I can to keep the spirit of the whole idea. My reflection of course is based upon my personal experiences here at the University of Florida, and I would say that the University of Florida for me in many ways, was a struggle in terms of recognition, of small things, in terms of academics, but I know that I became stronger because of that struggle. There was a huge difference for me between here and Florida State. When I got there, it just seemed very much, Oh, we’re so excited about everything. We’re so happy to have you here. I never received that here at UF. It never happened.

	A:	Oh, you didn’t. Oh my. Even in 1989.





	W:	Even in 1994 and even in some ways today, but at the same time, the richness of the experience here and the fact that you’re dealing with people from everywhere, that those challenges strengthen you. I think the Bible talks about iron sharpening iron. I think that’s what the University of Florida provides. The student government that I was involved in was very hard hitting, probably even more so than the state legislature probably in a lot of ways. The academics were challenging, the idea of building personal relationships. I know now, as I believed then, that this was the best place for me because of the ultimate rewards that come from being a Gator and being part of the Gator Nation. I don’t have any regrets. The suggestions I would make: certainly some type of an ongoing discussion series perhaps to bring people from the past back, maybe once every semester or once every year to talk about some of the critical issues involved in integration and desegregation, and of course to talk about some of the financial issues that you talked about, which are critical. When the Council of Diversity puts forth a goal that our faculty should reflect the population of the state of Florida and our student body should reflect the faculty population. How do we do that when we have challenges attracting and salarying African-American faculty and staff?

	A:	I’m sorry.



	W:	Oh, not at all.



	U:	Janine and Steve forgot to leave and they want to see him. Sorry.



	W:	I understand you have so many things to do. Let me first, again, thank you for that opportunity for personal reflection. Thank you for the interview, and ask you





is there anything that we did not touch on. It’s sort of my tradition interviewing to ask the person that I’m speaking with, in addition to thanking them, to ask you to reflect upon the interview. Is there something that was discussed that you didn’t think was necessarily on track or something that wasn’t discussed that you thought should have been? And in offering those comments, at the conclusion, that will be the end of the interview, with of course, our thanks.

	A:	I can’t really think of anything additional to say other than, it was very gratifying to see the committee come together and to put all the effort and work that they put into making the celebration work. I know Carl Van Ness in particular did quite a bit trying to identify who the firsts were. My takeaway, and I’ve talked about this before, but my takeaway from the event that evening was, there’s a lot of people we need to find. We need to find and we need to reach out to them and make sure that they feel acknowledged and honored for what they did. To your point, bring them back to campus and have them share experiences with the students now.

	W:	Thank you Jane Adams, Vice President of the University of Florida. A:	Thank you very much.

[End of interview]





	Audit edited by:	Holland Hall, July 27, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019