AAHP 310; Tuffs; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 310 Shirley-Jo Tuffs African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Marna Weston on June 20, 2013 1 hour, 14 minutes | 44 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP310

Interviewee: Shirley-Jo Tuffs Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: June 20, 2013



	W:	This is Marna Weston with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program on June 20, 2013, and I am speaking with Shirley Jo Tuffs. We are meeting at Tempo Bistro to Go on the corner of 16th Avenue and 13th Street in Gainesville. And I just want to thank you very much for letting us speak with you today.

	T:	You are welcome. Thank you for inviting me to do this.



	W:	Could you please state and spell your complete first name at birth?



	T:	Shirley-Jo Loreen Tuffs. The whole name is S-H-I-R-L-E-Y HYPHEN J-O –L-O- R-E-E-N and the last name Tuffs. T-U-DOUBLE F as in Frank, S as in Sue.

	W:	And when and where were you born?



	T:	Grand Rapids, Michigan, in 1945; September 26, 1945.



	W:	Now interesting, you know, there is always interesting to happen in my interview. You said Grand Rapids, Michigan, that’s the home of the great American horse, is it not?

	T:	I don’t know. [Laughter]



	W:	Well, Meyer Food Stores has their big park. They have a hundred-foot horse out in the pasture at Meyer Food Store Park that they have there. I went to a wedding in Grand Rapids about two years ago and saw it.

	T:	How long has it been there?



W:  I have no idea, but when I got to the area, I said “I am going to be here for thirty- five hours, what is there to do in Grand Rapids?” And they said, “Well you’ve got to go see the big horse.”





	T:	Well, the thing to really see in Grand Rapids is the Calder, by Alexander Calder.



It’s downtown Grand Rapids, it’s this gigantic original creation of Alexander Calder. And it’s bright reddish orange.

	W:	Wow, see I wasn’t told about that when I was there, or I would have seen that.



Who were your mother and father?



	T:	My mother’s name was Shirley May Tuffs and my father’s name was Ernest Frederick Tuffs.

	W:	Now do you recall their dates of birth? T:	No, I don’t know.

	W:	Do you recall where they were originally from?



	T:	Flint, Michigan, and that’s where they met each other. W:	Did they go to high school together?

	T:	Yes, both of them dropped out in eighth grade, which was not uncommon for people back then. And I don’t know how they met each other but they were married until the day my mother died.

	W:	Who were your mom’s mother and father?



	T:	My mother’s mother was, her name was Jesse Rector, and my mother’s father’s name was James Rector.

	W:	And could you spell their last names? T:	R-E-C-T-O-R.

	W:	And what was your mother’s mother, grandmother on that side, maiden name? T:	May.

	W:	Now how about your dad, who were his mother and father?





	T:	His father’s name was Ernest, just like Ernest Frederick, just like my dad, and his mother’s name was Minnie May Crane. Another May there.

	W:	And do you have any idea of their births or areas of origin?



	T:	I think all of them around Grand Rapids, Michigan. As an aside, I have a book I should have brought it with me on my father. My father’s, my great great great great grandparents were the original settlers of a little township near Grand Rapids called Jamestown Township. And so that’s kind of neat to have a book that goes way back to the early 1800s and see the pictures of the people who were my great great great great grandparents.

	W:	Now I guess if you had your book here you would be able to tell me specifically more about your genealogy.

	T:	Yes, I didn’t think to bring it, I wish I had.



	W:	Just in asking, is it possible you might know, we’ve already talked about your mother’s mother, what do you know about your grandmother’s mother, that you can relate that’s not in the books and I understand the difficulty.

	T:	Really not very much.



	W:	What’s the name of the book?



	T:	It’s called “The Jamestown Township.” And if we meet again I can show it to you.



It’s very interesting. And you can see how difficult life was for people, and it shows in their faces. They just look weathered and worn but I feel very lucky to have something like that.

	W:	Do you have brothers or sisters, and if you do could you mention them from oldest to youngest please?





	T:	Four, two brothers and two sisters. My oldest sister, her name was Jean, and she died about 10 years ago from breast cancer. And then my, the second oldest sister, her name is Winnie and she lives up in Grand Rapids, Michigan. An older brother, Ernest, he lives up in Grand Rapids, Michigan. And a younger brother, James, who lives up in Grand Rapids, Michigan. They all live there.

	W:	So pretty much you are the part of your family that came to Florida and everyone else is in Grand Rapids, Michigan?

	T:	I’m the only one who left, yes.



	W:	What is your earliest memory of education?



	T	My earliest memory is in elementary school, having a very strict teacher who actually slapped kids and spanked kids in the classroom. Now this is a long time ago, and I remember her seizing one of my friend’s arms and yanking her and starting to paddle her, and standing up and protesting that. And then I got disciplined, I got spanked because of that, too. That’s my earliest memories trying to come to the aid of a friend who I feel was unfairly being disciplined in an unfair way.

	W:	What was the name of the teacher and what was the name of the school?



	T:	It was called Alexander Elementary School. Let me back up, it was called Palmer Elementary School, and I don’t remember the name of the teacher. It was probably like third grade, second or third grade.

	W:	Do you remember the principal of the school? T:	No, I don’t.

	W:	How about the location of the school?





	T:	In Grand Rapids, Michigan. But I don’t remember the street that it was on. W:	But that memory has stayed with you, why is that?

	T:	Well, I think it told me something about myself early on, which I think is true for me today. I sympathize with people who are being treated unfairly. And that’s what I saw in the second grade was my friend being treated unfairly in what I thought was a very brutal manner that was uncalled for. And being seized myself and treated that way and the feeling of injustice that was occurring at a very low level there. And I’m not sure how much that shaped my feelings later on about justice and injustice. It’s hard to say.

	W:	Could you share a happy memory from elementary school, something that happened between first and sixth grade that you were excited about, that helped more on your natural progression as a person?

	T:	Can it be separate from school then?



	W:	Sure it can be separate but during those years.



	T:	During those years, um, just things that kids love to do. And of course this was before television, and lots of movies and all the media that we have now. This was like 1945-[19]55, just the things that kids did when there was no air conditioning in the summer time so you were outside all the time, playing, playing hopscotch or swimming, or climbing trees or playing marbles, all those wonderful things that are part of childhood that those are my fond memories.

	W:	You mentioned a time period that we probably have particular interest for our listeners later on. 1945, do you remember World War II and what do you remember about it, if anything about those times?





	T:	Nothing. Nothing, I was born right after the war.



	W:	So you were in elementary school in the early 50s?



	T:	Yes, I started elementary school at age five. And so right about 1950 was when I started.

	W:	Is there a teacher that you remember in particular all these years later from elementary school that had some type of impact on you?

	T:	No, I don’t.



	W:	Not one teacher?



T:  Just the one who did the spanking. I remember her, I don’t remember her name. But I remember that individual, but no I don’t remember the name. A lot of things get so lost in time.

	W:	Do your recall any clubs or activities that you enjoyed or a favorite subject from being in elementary school?

	T:	No, not really. I was a good student, but I just liked everything. I always loved academia. And even in high school and college, I was the type of person who just information, I just would soak it up. And so I think you know, I just loved everything about school, from kindergarten through the master’s program.

	W:	So you finished sixth grade, where there a separation when you went to a middle school or did you go directly to a high school from sixth to 12th?

	T:	Yeah, there were no middle schools back then. I went to Ottawa Hills High School.

	W:	And where was it located?



	T:	It was in Grand Rapids, Michigan. And 7th through 12th grade.





	W:	And who was the principal of the school? T:	Oh, I don’t remember.

	W:	Okay, well tell me about middle school, what was it like for you?



	T:	Well, junior high it was called back then. It was, I don’t even think they used the word middle school. Oh, gosh, just the feeling of being so small, it was a gigantic place and feeling so small there. And just trying to find a way to work with the system and I found that a struggle at first.

	W:	Did you have a best friend?



	T:	Yes, I did. Her name was Elizabeth and she was there from 7th through 12th grade. And she was from Hungary, her parents sent her over in 19-well she was five years old they came over from Hungary to Germany to the United States as refugees. Well, this is really interesting because she came over as disenfranchised people, right? The church took them in, they were very very poor. And she was one of six kids so she had to really struggle just to survive.

And it’s interesting that she would have become my best friend, rather than somebody else. And she still is, I still talk with her, I see her, she’s up in Michigan and I see her maybe every eight to ten years, but I talk with her every week, so she’s still a best friend of mine.

	W:	How do you make it when everybody you know is in Michigan? How did you get here? Does any part of this story deal with Florida?

	T:	I was finishing up my bachelor’s program in speech pathology and audiology, and this was at Western Michigan University. And some people came to the placement office on campus to interview from all over the United States, to





interview future teachers. And even though a speech therapist is not really a teacher, they were interviewing for that also. So I said, “What the heck,” and I went to the placement office and I interviewed with several people, I sat down with this person from Fort Myers, Florida, he interviewed me, and he said, oh, I’d like to offer you a job in Fort Myers, Florida. And I said, okay. I’ve always loved adventure, and I get very impatient with the same thing all the time. And the thought of spending the rest of my life in Grand Rapids, Michigan, just did not appeal to me at 23, 24 years of age. And the thought of heading out, I didn’t have a driver’s license, I had never driven a car, but the thought of buying a car, getting a driver’s license and heading for Florida in just a few weeks time was appealing to me and I did it.

	W:	So you drove from Grand Rapids, Michigan, from not knowing how to drive and not having a license.

	T:	Well, I learned how to drive, my friend, the one I told you about from high school, she took me to the cemetery and taught me to drive.

	W:	So that’s kind of scary to learn how to drive in a cemetery. All kinds of symbolism there. I didn’t get her last name, though.

	T:	Her last name, well, before she married was Vigh. And if you go to Ellis Island, you go find the name Vigh there, because they have all of the refugees that came into or through Ellis Island.

	W:	Is that V-I-E?



	T:	V-I-G-H. And she taught me to drive in a very brief period of time. I took the license and passed and bought a car, all in about a month’s time. And then





finished up, I had to student-teach both English – and that’s the story I have to tell you about – but that was my minor, and my major was speech pathology.

	W:	How old were you at this time? T:	I was 23, 24.

	W:	So a 23 year old woman would never have left Michigan, drove from Michigan to Fort Myers for a job, by yourself.

	T:	No, the friend came with me and then she flew home.



	W:	Well, that is a good friend. Not leaving you on the road by yourself



	T:	But when I got into Fort Myers I was pretty astounded. Again, this was 1969, and it was very small.

	W:	What were the times like culturally in 1969? Everybody looks at 68 because that was the year that Johnson said “I shall not seek, and I will not accept the nomination of my party,” and then Martin Luther King was killed a few days after that in Memphis, and then some months later Bobby Kennedy was killed in California, and then a little bit after that there was the whole world is watching at the Democratic Convention. Everybody looks at 68 as this big watershed year. What was 1969, the year after that, like?

	T:	Well, that would take you into the story that I have to tell you. But getting back to my arrival in Fort Myers, the schools were just starting to desegregate that year. That was the year of desegregation. And as a speech therapist I worked in like five or six different schools, so I traveled from one school to the next, because in each school you might find between ten to 20 kids who needed speech therapy. And but I was getting referrals, an incredible number of referrals of Black children





because the teachers did not understand the Black dialect. And so they were referring them as speech impaired. And I would test these kids and there was nothing wrong with their speech, they just had a Black dialect.

	W:	So the diagnosis, or the recommendation was insincere. Was the teacher not taking enough time to talk to the child?

	T:	Or they just probably felt overwhelmed, too. Because they just didn’t know what was coming. And so I spent the first year in Fort Myers collecting data and trying to put together a paper for the teacher to help them understand what their students were saying. Because I couldn’t work with all these students, I had several hundred student referred to me by the teachers. Because again it was the very first year of desegregation. So I think that probably racism came in to some degree, but some of it was just they didn’t know, it was like another language to them, it is another language. And they just didn’t know, and so they referred them to me. And so I thought, “Well the best thing to do is to go back to the teachers and tell them there’s nothing wrong with these kids’ speech at all.” And I let the teachers know that I was going to spend a year working on a paper that could help them to understand some of the usages in the Black dialect. And then I presented that to them in the school year.

	W:	So there was a lot of colloquialism.



T:  Yes, that they just didn’t understand. And so it was sort of like a project that I took on the first year. But it was really pretty incredible in Fort Myers that first year.





W:  And did this lead to any special recognition of your expertise, because I can imagine with enough cases you have to write, maybe this was just a journal. Well, talk to Miss Tuffs, she knows all about this.

	T:	No, I never did anything with that, I just presented the paper to the teachers in the four or five school I was in. And I hoped it helped. But I didn’t get as many referrals, because I went back for a second year to Fort Myers and I didn’t get the referrals I got the first year, so maybe it did. The third year I went to Tallahassee to get my masters degree in speech pathology. And then I went back to Fort Myers for one more year as a speech therapist.

	W:	What was your year in Tallahassee – that was 1970-71? T:	That was 71, 72.

	W:	What was Tallahassee like in 71, 72?



	T:	Well, I was on campus all the time, because I was working on my masters, so I don’t know what Tallahassee was really like.

	W:	So you lived off campus as well?



	T:	I lived on campus dorm for graduate students. W:	Which dorm was that?

	T:	Ausyuliver [inaudible 18:18] Hall, which just closed about a year ago, and there were mostly upper classmen and graduate students there.

	W:	Okay we have something else in common, I have a speech communication degree from Florida State University.

	T:	From Florida State? Okay, all right. Well, when I got to Florida State it was very difficult too, because my undergraduate degree was also in speech pathology,





and the person that I studied with was one of the originators of the whole speech pathology as a study. He was a psychologist. And he had a lot of people referred to him that stuttered.

W:   And what was his name?



	T:	His name was Charles Van Riper and even today is considered like almost a god in speech pathology.

	W:	When you took these courses did you study around Jiffenball Hall [inaudible 19:15], or where was the communication department at that time?

	T:	This was at Western Michigan University.



	W:	Oh, okay, this is back to your bachelor’s degree.



	T:	And Charles Van Riper was a psychologist, and there was another guy, Wendell Johnson was another psychologist and they both were profound stutterers. And so they, a lot of the patients they would see are stutterers and so they undertook a study of stutterers, basically, and wrote books on it. And the introduction to speech pathology and audiology when I was in school was written by Charles Van Riper. And he worked at the clinic that I was at, so I felt very fortunate to be working where Charles Van Riper was. And his whole approach to working with individuals was more gestalt, taking the total person and in the psychology of the person, also the articulation of the person, but the whole individual. And I liked that approach. When I got to Florida State that was not the technique that they were using. They were using pure behavioral therapy, and that was an adjustment for me. It was like stimulus, response, reward. And that was, it was





hard for me to switch from that kind of an approach as working with individuals as really human beings to working with them as if they were automatons.

	W:	Do you recall your committee and the chair of your master’s committee? T:	Yes, I remember, not the chair, but the director.

	W:	Your major professor?



	T:	My major professor’s name was Moore, I forget his first name, and he was very good. This was at Florida State, very good. And very helpful. And so I got a lot out of the program so that after I got my masters I worked as a speech therapist and I found a way to bring the two together so that I was working individuals as people but also doing some stimulus, response, rewards stuff also so I sort of integrated that all into the program that I used.

	W:	Were you involved in any activities outside of your graduate work at Florida State University? Did you participate in any protests, marches, were you a member of student government, were you a member of any organizations?

	T:	I remember in undergraduate school participating in protests. At Western Michigan. I remember that at Western Michigan but not so much at Florida State. The graduate program was one year, and now it’s like two or three years. But it was one year of intensive stuff, you not only had to go to classes but you had to work in a clinic. I had men who had their larynxes removed, and I would teach them what we would call esophageal speech, and I had a little boy who was barely hard of hearing and all of that I had to do as volunteer hours.

	W:	So you could hardly just stick your head up?





	T:	Oh, yeah, something like about 200 volunteer hours at the clinic that I had to put in to get my masters.

	W:	I took two years to get mine there, so, you did it all in one year?



	T:	All four quarters, and so I didn’t have a whole lot of time for much of anything else. My major professor played the guitar and I played the guitar and he would invite me, he had several other professors. They would get together maybe once every couple of months and play their guitars and have a beer and he invited me to a lot of those. He found out that I played the guitar so this was a social activity I had a chance to get together with professors.

	W:	Well, anything that your major professors are interested in you’re interested in that. I understand that. So did you along the way start a family?

	T:	No, no, not until I got my masters and moved to Panama City. So I worked for six months in Tallahassee and there was some time in between where I headed to California and was looking for a job out there and couldn’t find anything so I came back to Florida.

	W:	What did you do in Panama City for those six months, where did you work?



	T:	In Tallahassee you mean? It was in Tallahassee for six months. Someone was on a maternity leave and I ended up in Tallahassee just looking for a job and I went to the office of special education and they said, “Well, we do have someone who is on a six-month maternity leave and she’s coming back.” And so I said, “Well, I’ll do it.” So that’s why I was in Tallahassee for six months, and then while I was there I interviewed for a job in Panama City, and they offered me … everywhere I ever interviewed they offered me a job. I think there always has





been such a need for speech therapists. Probably even now there is. So everywhere I ever interviewed they offered me a job on the spot. So I went to Panama City and interviewed with the director of special education there and he offered me a job in Panama City and I accepted it. And so then I headed to Panama City after I finished that stint in Tallahassee. And that’s where I met my husband.

	W:	And what’s his name? T:	John Atkins.

	W:	And what was it about Mr. John Atkins that led you to marry him?



	T:	Well, we didn’t marry, we knew each other for about three or four years before we got married. A decent person, a truly, truly honest, decent, kind person. And sexy, you know? So that combination of being sexy and I thought good looking and appealing, combine that with just a person that you couldn’t do any better. And everything about him is pretty much how I feel about- my philosophy of life is his philosophy of life, and I think that’s really important, you know, as a companion, is that you both, your general view of life, if they coincide, I think that makes a lot more harmony in a relationship. We have been together for 39 years and we’ve been married for 35 years.

	W:	Congratulations.



	T:	Thank you, thank you. W:	Is he also an academic?

	T:	No, he’s an engineer. And right now he has his own company in Gainesville called Microderm Products, and he, a lot of the work he does is for peanut and





onion farmers up in Georgia and South Carolina and some in Florida. In the past, peanut farmers would get up in the middle of the night to turn dryers on or to turn them off because they can’t be overheated and they can’t be under heated, it has to be just the right temperature. And so he designed an instrument, it’s about this big, that is digital and it turns the dryers on and off for the farmers, so they don’t have to get up at 3 in the morning to do that. And they are all throughout Georgia and South Carolina and Williston, there are some in Williston and different places in Florida. That’s the bulk of the work that he does, is design, and stuff like that.

He has done some stuff for a place called Altavian, and it’s a startup company that makes unmanned vehicles and they needed John to do some consulting so he’s done some work for them, too. So he’s a brilliant engineer.

	W:	You’ve had careers and your academic and his career have allowed you to have a successful life together and time to spend with each other. Children?

	T:	I have two.



	W:	And what are their names, oldest to the youngest?



T:  Jeff Atkins is my older one. And he lives in Seattle with his daughter and his wife. And he works for Liberty Mutual and my younger son, Jason, lives in Gainesville, and he’s sort of like a fitness coach.

W:   So two boys.



	T:	Yes, two boys. And he works at a place called Go Primal, and they do extreme physical fitness stuff. And they have a lot of people from Shands who work out there, a lot of the doctors at Shands work out at Go Primal. And they just sort of push people to their limits.





	W:	Go Primal.



	T:	It’s up in Magnolia Park and but, yeah, they get broken bones and sprains and strains and stuff from people, they just come.

	W:	That’s going primal.



	T:	But when my husband and I, we met in Panama City, and then we moved to California, looking for jobs there. And I found a job again first interview I went to they offered me a job. And then he found a job a couple of weeks later at a place called General Dynamics, working on the Tomahawk cruise missile. And that’s where we decided to have our first son.

	W:	Okay, now what part of California was that?



	T:	San Diego. And I worked very close to the border. W:	Tijuana.

	T:	No, on the United States side. I worked in South Bay, and it’s just like a hop, skip and a jump to the border.

	W:	But just across there is Tijuana.



	T:	Yes, yes, right. And I worked there for about three or four years as a speech therapist and that’s where my first son was born.

	W:	Did you ever have any excursions across the border? T:	Oh, yeah, we would. We would go into Mexico.

	W:	What was that like, for a person who lives in San Diego? Because now that part of the world people aren’t doing as much going across the border because of the drug war with Mexico.





	T:	Long lines to wait in to get into Mexico and get back. Long, long lines. And you would cross into Tijuana, into Mexico and the first thing you would see would be mostly women with their hands out asking for anything that you could give them. Sometimes children. That’s the first thing that you would see. Have you ever been to Tijuana?

	W:	I’ve not but I’ve got many friends who have been there before. They describe a different experience.

	T:	Well, again, this was a long time ago. This was like 1979, 80. And but I just remember a city that seemed like total chaos. But after my first son was born my husband wanted to move back to Gainesville. Move to Gainesville, we never lived here.

	W:	What was the connection for Gainesville, why here?



	T:	His father had a business here called Atkins Technical. And they made digital, are we running out of the tape I don’t know how long you’ve lived in Gainesville, but you can see it from the interstate, Atkins Technical. And they made digital thermometry for, like if you go to McDonalds and Burger King and Pizza Hut and Taco Bell, if you go back in the kitchen you will find probes made by Atkins Technical. And so they sold these probes to measure temperature, to make sure the meat in the chicken is done, the meat in the hamburger is done. Well, those are my husband’s designs, because he went to work with his dad so John designed all of those probes that are all over the world at all the McDonalds and Burger Kings. That was my father in law’s business and John wanted to work with his dad. I didn’t want to leave San Diego, I loved San Diego. Wonderful and





some beautiful friends out there and I didn’t want to leave. But he felt so strongly that he wanted to come back to Gainesville to work with his father that I said, “Okay, here’s the deal, here’s the deal.” By that time I had been doing a lot of magic with students, just as I told you in the recovering ward system so that if they came and they worked hard and paid attention and were courteous and all those good things you want kids to do, that I would show them a magic trick at the end of the session. And each session was about a half hour long. So every half hour I would do these tricks, so I got really pretty good at them. And I started booking s few shows.

	W:	How did you get started with magic?



	T:	Went to Disney World in 1974, I went to Disney World with a friend. And we went into Merlin’s den, and I was working as a speech therapist, and I went in there and I thought, “You know, this stuff is so cool. This magic is so cool, how could I use that as a speech therapist?” And so my mind was just clicking away as part of a reward system. And so I bought maybe ten or 15 tricks, took them back to Panama City and just practiced them. And then started using them with my students, and because I would do it every half hour I got really pretty good at it. And so, let me backtrack, when we were in San Diego, my husband wanted to move to Gainesville to work with his dad, so I said, “What if I, you know, because I really don’t want to go to Gainesville, I want to stay in San Diego, let’s do a trade-off.” Because I really believe in trade-offs in a working relationship. You know, like if you give some the other gives some, compromise and trade-offs.

	W:	“Quid pro quo,” I think the Romans called it.





	T:	I really think for a good marriage to work you have to have reasonable trade-offs made cheerfully. And so I said, “How about I’m getting kind of burned out as a speech therapist. How about if I try to make a living as a performer?” And he said, “Go for it.” He said, “I’ll support you all the way.” And so we moved to Gainesville, and did a few magic shows and got pregnant with my second son. He was born by the time he was two or three years of age, I got in contact with the balloon place and every once in while they said, “We get calls for magic shows and could we set you up to do some magic shows?” And I said, “Sure.” And so I started doing magic shows through this balloon place. And then after a while, I just started advertising for myself and booking my own shows.

	W:	Now were the great Jodini at that time?



	T:	I was Bobo Jo the clown. I’m not sure, I might have, I have an extensive web site. It’s on jodini.com. And I have, I don’t do Bobo Jo anymore, I stopped about three years ago, but I sort of made, like, in memory of Bobo Jo, let’s see; this is what Bobo Jo looked like. That’s Bobo Jo.

	W	Bobo Jo and her magic show. I love it, the big gloves. T:	And this is Jodini. That’s Jodini.

	W:	Ah, much more mystical.



	J:	Yes, and so I don’t to any shows as Bobo Jo, but I did. But I just go in as Jodini and do magic shows. I do shows for all kinds of things, a lot of library shows throughout the years, a lot of companies in Gainesville have hired me. Shands, many of the departments at Shands, like for summer picnic or for Christmas party





have hired me, birthday parties, festivals, downtown arts festivals and just any venue. I once went to Jamaica and did some shows there.

	W:	What was that like?



	T:	That was really interesting. Somebody drove into—this was about maybe ten, this was during the [inaudible 35:14] in Gainesville.

	W:	1990.



	T:	1990. And we are out of town when this happened. This group came into Gainesville called the Yellow Man Band. And they were from Jamaica and their manager was with them. And there was a festival coming up, a yearly festival in Buff Bay, Jamaica. And the manager was looking the phone book and saying, “I would like to hire some magicians for our festival,” and so he found my name and he called me and I answered. And he said who he was and what he was interested in. And I said, “Okay,” and so I met with him and he seemed legitimate and he gave me a contract and I signed the contract and I flew to Jamaica. This was in the summertime. And he picked me up at the airport and I did one show in Kingston at an amusement park because he wanted to see what my show as like. And I did one show. And they paid me for all of this. Did one show in Kingston at an amusement park, and then the next day I got on the bus and headed up the mountains to Buff Bay, high up in the mountains. And at that time I was Bobo Jo, I was dressed as Bobo Jo, and I put on my makeup in Kingston, so when I got on the bus with all the other performers, heading up I was dressed as Bobo Jo. So I was on the bus with Calypso Rose and some reggae bands and some rap bands and Miss Jamaica, we were all on this bus together. And it was





wonderful, it was so much fun. We would drive through little villages on our way to Buff Bay. And all the kids they see Bobo Jo in the window and they come running up to the bus, it’s like how often do they see anything like that? And so I’d wave to them and I’d row the window down and I touched all of them, and they would go on to the next village and so all the way onto Buff Bay. And they had me do about three magic shows for about 50,000 people. These are people from all over the Caribbean.

	W:	Is that the largest audience you ever had?



	T:	Yeah, 50,000 people. I’ve had audiences from two people once at a birthday party, and library shows where you might have 200 to 300 people. But that was my last audience.

	W:	What was that show like, that 50,000 person venue? What was that show like for you?

	T:	For me, it was just another show, you know. Because what happens is when you know this yourself, when you do something for years and years, and I have lots and lots of magic tricks. I have probably you know, over a hundred magic tricks that I mastered. And so I’m always adding new tricks to my show and practicing them and doing them. And you know, if you have a love for what you do, and this has been the love of my life next to my husband and kids, is being a performer.

You put everything you have into it. You put all the love of your life into it. And you do, you go to a show and it doesn’t matter if you have two kids there or if you have 50,000 people there, you do your best show. And when you get on that stage it’s show time. So that was my experience in Jamaica, no different that it





would have been if I had two kids at a little birthday party. I got up there and did my very best show. And I did about three or four shows. And so it was wonderful. It was absolutely wonderful. It was hot, it was like the middle of August and I got a little dehydrated I think. But it was just a great experience. Lots of publications, you know they put my picture in newspapers all around the Caribbean and the internationally renowned.

	W:	Of course, United States and Jamaica is internationally renowned. Of course.



	T:	So I feel like I’ve had a really really rich life as a performer. And feel fortunate to have been able to go into all kinds of situations. And embraced wherever I go because I’m the magician. I’m not a strange person coming, I’m the magician coming in and people are excited to see the magician. They are always excited to see the magician. And so I feel like I’ve been so lucky. And I owe a lot of that to my husband, because he’s supported me and still does. Do you want to hear about—

	W:	There was this story that I feel this is a good segue into the story.



	T:	That’s right, this is why I had contacted you. It was 1969, January, so the year had just started. And I had to teach my minor, which was English, and my major, which was speech pathology. And so they assigned me to Comstock Park High School, which was an all White high school. And I got there full of enthusiasm and eager to teach kids.

	W:	Where was the school located?



	T:	On the outskirts of Grand Rapids in a little town called Comstock Park. And so I got there and surprisingly my supervising teacher, I walked in and she just





handed the class over to me. Which really was probably not the best thing, she never supervised a single day. She just spent the whole time in the teachers lounge. So I never got any feedback from her at all. So I got there and she was very- I don’t know, she was maybe some Shakespeare or some Chaucer and the kids were like, like this. They were so bored, I had 90 of them altogether. Class was about 30, 35 kids and they were all so bored and tolerating this. And I said, “I don’t want to spend three months with this.” So I thought, “What can I do to light a fire under them, and I just thought about, why not try a Black literature program?” Because they were, I don’t know why that occurred to me but I thought, why not try that? And so I went to the supervising teacher and I went to the director of the English program and I presented it to them. And they said, “Fine.” So I made sure I got this okay from them. I was covered. And I said I’m going to have to order 90 copies of Native Son, and they said, “Go ahead, do it.” We have the funds for it, do it.

	W:	So they knew who Richard Wright was.



	T:	Yeah, they came into the school office and I just distributed them to my students. And the students loved it, they loved everything. I had them studying the poetry of Langston Hughes. I had them researching, and these kids knew nothing at all, nothing. And I had them researching the NAACP and, I think I mentioned, I had a principal from school come and talk with them about civil rights. And they invited him back.

	W:	You did not mention that. What was the principal’s name?





	T:	Don’t remember that either. I don’t remember that, but he spoke so eloquently that they were so impressed that they wanted him back. And so he came a second time and talked a lot about civil rights and the struggle for civil rights. And so there was a program where kids who were not in my class were reading Native Son in the cafeteria. You know, because they wanted to read this. So the program was a huge success, until parents started calling my parents, because I was living at home that time with my parents in Grand Rapids. And they started calling—and I don’t know how they got my number—but they started calling my parents, and yelling at me in foul language because of what I was doing.

	W:	What was it about what you were doing that they didn’t like that caused them to cuss at you?

	T:	Because they didn’t want to have a Black literature program. They didn’t want their kids exposed to this stuff.

	W:	So, this is English, this is in the American genre, but they didn’t want their kids to know about it? What were their specific objections, do you recall any of those?

	T:	Well, some of them maintained it was the sexuality in Native Son. But I think it was a lot more than that. And these kids were like seventeen, eighteen years old, these were not thirteen-year-olds. And but that’s what some of them claimed, but they demanded that I go before the school board, they were so angry and at one point there was an explosive put in my parents’ mailbox.

	W:	A bomb.



	T:	I guess, the mailbox—this was a mailbox attached to the porch, and it just blew up. So I don’t what that was all about.





	W:	Could have been a cherry bomb, could have been something worse.



	T:	So they called the school board, the parents did and they demanded that I go before the school board, and that I be fired. And I was just a student teacher, how do you fire a student teacher? So I had to go before the school board, and—

	W:	Even though the principal and everybody at school had already approved of what you were doing you had—they should have been the ones to go before the school board, not you.

	T:	I don’t remember hearing anything from them, anything. So I sort of felt alone out there. And I felt like very vulnerable, and until, I had about five students who came up to me and said, “We want to go before the school board, and defend this program. We don’t want you to have to say anything.” So I went that night to the school board meeting, and they were all there and they spoke very well for the program and I was really proud of them. I got some excellent papers, by the way. Because they had to write their paper and that’s a big essay on the book.

And I got some really good papers from these students. And the school board listened to them and they decided, amazingly, to keep the book in the library, to keep Native Son in the library. And they were open if anybody wanted—because they knew I was leaving—if anybody in the future wanted to explore a Black literature program, that the school should consider that. You know, they sort of gave the okay for that. And that amazed me. And but I didn’t have to say anything, my students did all the talking.

	W:	Do you know if the program continued?





	T:	Well, I don’t know but a couple of days ago I tried typing in you know, Comstock Park High School, Black literature program, Jo Tuffs, and I tried Googling all that and I couldn’t find anything. But I did find something that showed that Comstock Park now is a little over 80, 85 percent White students. So it’s more integrated now. But it was, there were none at the time.

	W:	How do feel about this effort, do you feel that was, for the time, something that was significant as you look back on it? People listening to this whenever they listen to it, it’s gonna be transcribed, put in the archives, but when somebody listens to a story that was told at 2013 about something that took place in the 1970s, how should they feel about this event?

	T:	Well, my hope was that these students had gotten a lot out of this, had their eyes opened. And that was my hope. And I think that happened with most of them, that they realized that there was another, there are other people out there than the people in their suburbs and in their school. And other people with lives that have just as much value as theirs. And so, that’s what my hope is, that I opened their eyes up a little bit more to civil rights issues and that was my intention, too, in ordering this is to create a program that they would be excited about but that they might learn something, something new about.

	W:	Were you surprised at all that potentially your professional standing was in question? How did you feel about that?

	T:	I was concerned because I never saw it coming. I was so naïve. I was just an idealistic, hopeful, twenty-three, twenty-four-year-old. I never saw it coming. I just did what I thought would put a spark under these students. And something that





they might learn something from and that they were excited about, very excited. And so I was just, I was thrilled at all this, so I never saw this coming.

	W:	Are you in contact at all with any of the students today? Have they ever written you a letter or anything after?

	T:	No, no, I would love to meet with them, though, I don’t know how, because I can’t even remember their names. I had ninety students. And what they remembered about that period in time in Miss Tuffs English class. And they might feel, if it might have impacted their lives in any way, if it might have made some changes in how they perceive people, you know. I would love to know that. But I don’t know how I would ever reach them. But it’s so, it was a really scary time for me. When all this uproar began and I felt sorry for my parents because what they had to listen to also, the calls that they had to use. And you know they were protective of their daughter and they were concerned for her welfare. But so that’s the story that I had contacted to you in regard to.

	W:	What do you feel that story within the context of everything that took place in 1970, you know we had Watergate take place during that time, the Reagan revolution took place, the Berlin Wall is falling. We still deal with issues that refer to civil rights, but how do you feel about that time in between the way you spent you time and lived your life and how this story reflects on that?

	T:	I’m not sure I understand that question, how do I feel now?



	W:	Well, if I can condense it even further, you felt it was important to call somebody and say that this story is out there. And I immediately say that’s “Wow, that’s a





great story, so what is it about your life that made you want to tell it and have it preserved that people can know about this story?

	T:	Well, I think because I’ve told it throughout the years. You know, this was forty, forty-five years ago. Throughout the years there have been just certain people that I told it to, I haven’t told it to a lot of people but there are certain people I’ve told it to. And in the telling of it, I’m listening to myself and I’m feeling this is really profound. And that’s the feedback that I would get from people. My friend, Regina, I was telling her about it a week ago and she said, “That is an amazing story.” She said “It’s incredible, you have to share this.” And so that’s when I thought about this Samuel Proctor thing. In telling it to people throughout the years it would strike me as, “My gosh, it had a power that I realized over the years that I wasn’t as much aware of when it happened.” I was mostly a little bit afraid and concerned and all that I would be dismissed and how that would impact my career. And so I didn’t think as broadly about it, but in the telling of it over the years, I am struck by how important it really was.

	W:	And how you were validated in your efforts. You saw the bluntest end.



	T:	Yes, and had these students not stepped forward to do this, too. You know, and how proud I was of them that they would do that for me. And I’m wondering if the school board would even have made the decision they did had not it been for the students saying this is a good program, you know?

	W:	It was a powerful effort for them one at a time to stand up there and say “You’re wrong, it’s a great program.”





	T:	Right, and I have no idea what their parents’ reactions were to do this, too. I have no idea that their parents might not have wanted them to do that, either.

	W:	So you said nothing.



	T:	I said nothing. I showed up because I was required to be there. I showed up but I’m glad I didn’t have to say anything because I would have been stuttering left and right because I was so nervous with so much on the line that I was relieved that they said that they would to that for me. And the papers that I got, I got some of the students talked about Bigger Thomas and who was really responsible for his crimes, because he was born into poverty, he never got any breaks, and so his life was full of despair. And so their question was, who’s responsible for what he did, is he? Is only he responsible or is society, the way he was treated, responsible? Those are questions that they would explore in their papers. So I got some really insightful stuff there.

	W:	Did you continue at all in the classroom or was the rest of your career mostly as a speech pathologist?

	T:	I never, it was never my intention to teach English. It was always being a speech therapist. I just had to do that because it was my minor.

	W:	So no other opportunities in the classroom?



	T:	No, and I never looked for them either, I never did.



	W:	As you look back do you think spending time in the classroom might have been something that might have enriched your career as well? Or did it give you a different way of looking at things? Or was that one time enough?





	T:	Obviously it was enough, because I never even, it never even occurred to me.



Now on the certificate that I have it says that I can teach English, I haven’t looked at it for years, though, that I can teach English up to, through the college, the junior college level. So I was certified to do it, I mean not certified but I had the credentials for that. But it never really crossed my mind to do that. I think I was excited about being a speech therapist, and you know, working with people and helping them with their speech. So that, I never even thought about it.

	W:	I would to give you a couple of one word thoughts, or small themes and just get your reaction to them, whatever they might be. What’s your definition of leadership?

	T:	Leadership is looking at a situation and assessing it, and seeing how you can make an impact in that situation and in seizing it. And taking it as far as you can. You know, and working your hardest to be successful at it. And that’s what leadership is to me. And that’s really what it is, it’s piloting your own life and just making your own decisions.

	W:	Mentoring.



	T:	What it means to me? Something I’d like to do right now, and I can’t find the right person because I have a rich background as a performer and years and years of experience doing magic shows. And all the things that I know I would love to be able to share with someone who is serious about becoming a performer and I haven’t found that person. And it makes me a little sad to think that all that I have learned when I’m gone is gone. Because it was hard won, a lot of it. And that’s something I would like to mentor someone as a magician or a performer. I sort of





was a mentor for about ten years in the Big Brother/Big Sister program. I had a little sister, she was 8 years old and I was her big sister until she was 15. And took her on all kinds of events and would do her homework with her and basically did all the things that a big sister used to do. And I think that’s mentoring. So it’s just being available to people and if they, using whatever expertise you can bring to the situation and being a good listener and being available to them when they need you.

	W:	What happened to your little sister, are you still in communication with her?



	T:	Oh, she’s probably about 20 years old now. I saw her about six months ago in a parking lot. And she’s going to Santa Fe and wants to be a hairdresser. But she was really happy to see me and we, you know, I hadn’t seen her for a couple of years. So I still have contact with her, we would do all kinds of things. We had Christmas parties every year where we would invite her family to my house and her sister and her brother and her cousins and everybody would come and all of my family was there, so there would be like thirty people in my house, all sharing a Christmas dinner together. We did that three or four times. And we planned the whole thing and wrote out invitations and just did a lot of things that she might not normally do with her. And so I thought that was an opportunity to be a mentor for someone.

	W:	The first family: Sasha, Malia, Michelle, Barack.



	T:	My thoughts on that? I feel sort of sorry for the abuse that they take, you know.



They seem like a really healthy, happy, loving family to me. And it makes me sad to see how they are treated, especially Barack. I wish them the very best and





we’ve seen how horrible it can get out there. I’ve never seen so much hatred for a president as I have for Barack Obama, and that makes me so sad. But the family itself, it just seems a sweet, loving family that is very healthy and happy. And I’m happy to have them here.

	W:	Gainesville.



	T:	I came to came to Gainesville, well, I didn’t want to come to Gainesville. This was 1980 that I came. And I only came because of my husband, really. And so when I got to Gainesville I felt, “Oh, man, this is so small.” And I guess I came to the conclusion that that’s not going to get me anywhere thinking that way. Because I’m here and so I need to look for the things in Gainesville that can make a difference and that I can enjoy and that my family can enjoy. And so that’s what I did. I just started looking at places like Morningside Nature Center, you know, and taking my kids there. And [inaudible 59:04] taught me all the wonderful things. Because this was before the big museums over there. And so I just decided to look in publications and find out what things were happening in Gainesville. And take my family or my kids to that and make the most of that. And I think that tends to be my philosophy of life is whatever situation you’re in you might as well make the most of it.

	W:	How about, the University of Florida?



	T:	I don’t have many thoughts on it. I live with students, I live off University Avenue between the Women’s Club and the president’s house. I live in that area.

	W:	The law students.





	T:	Yes, in fact we have one rental, it’s in our neighborhood that we own and we are renting it to a law student right now. But so, I’d say 85 percent of my neighborhood consists of students. And I’ve just learned to live with them and it’s a tradeoff because I’m not stuck out in some suburb. I’m not the kind of person who wants to live Haile plantation or any of those places. I would not be happy stuck out in the suburbs. And I guess because Hibiscus Park is the name of what I live in. It’s the original suburb of Gainesville, actually. Where the professors live, and then the professors headed out further west to Haile and the students moved into the neighborhood. And it’s centrally located so I can be here, I can be here in like seven minutes to meet you. I can be downtown in eight minutes, I can be to that area around the Oaks Mall or at the museums. I can be at all these places in less than ten minutes so I love that central location. I live in a house that’s on a pond. And there’s this road that goes around, a city road that goes around the pond. And it’s become like the central place in the neighborhood for everybody.

So I love looking out my window in my kitchen, big window and every time I look out I might see a student walking with her dog, or two students skateboarding around. Once I looked out the window and I saw a student streaking around the pond, with tennis shoes on. And so I sort of feel like I love being in the thick of things more. I would never have been happy to live in the country. I like being in the thick of things and so we’re I’m living is, but it’s surrounded by university type stuff. The university is such a huge part, it’s still in my neighborhood, you know. And I like that, I really do.

	W:	The Challenger explosion.





	T:	Oh, my, the Challenger. I think I was just mostly shocked by it, shocked. And I’m sorry for the people that it happened to.

	W:	Did you hear President Reagan’s speech that night? T:	I always found it hard to listen to Ronald Reagan.

	W:	Why was that?



	T:	I feel that he ushered in a society from which we have not recovered. All of his budget cuts, and if you look—. I saw this chart and it showed the various presidents and the debt accumulated, and Reagan is the highest debt of all the presidents, you know. In both of his terms, Reagan is the highest. The second highest is W Bush. The lowest is Barack Obama. And the second lowest is Bill Clinton. And so Reagan, you know, he ushered in a lot of budget cuts that hurt, really hurt people. And just the whole talent to the whole Morning in America stuff is just like this myth. And the whole Iran-Contra mess. And it was interesting that David Stockman, who has sort of done a big turnaround. But I just think a lot our problems, a lot of us were starving before Reagan, but he really did a number on this nation in my opinion.

	W:	Who are your heroes and heroines?



	T:	Okay. Heroes: Howard Zinn, very much so. In fact, I went to dinner with Howard Zinn, he came to the University of Florida, of course, with a lot of hundred other people. Went to dinner with him and he spoke at the performing arts center. But he just died a couple of years ago. Howard Zinn, David Attenborough, amazing man. David Attenborough, let’s see, Molly Ivins, remember Molly Ivins? Let’s see who else. Because there are more. Henry David Thoreau. Ralph Waldo





Emerson. Shakespeare, I mean the great writers and the great poets and the great painters. In admiration for them, but as far as just heroes I’d say the top of them is Howard Zinn for me. Such a courageous man with so much to say. And he never ever yielded to power and corruption.

	W:	What are your thoughts on the next president, the president to follow Barack Obama? Who would that person be or the kind of person that they should be?

T:  Well, I’d like to see a woman. It’s about time that we had a woman for president. That’s pathetic that some of these, Pakistan has had Benazar and some places that are not nearly—

W:   Israel, Brazil, almost anywhere in Europe.



	T:	And yet we have come nowhere near it. I’d like to see a woman. I’d like to see a progressive, I mean I’m a dyed in the wool liberal, I’d like to see a progressive liberal, you know, woman.

	W:	Do you see any women on the horizon that might fit that bill?



	T:	No, I think she needs more experience, but Elizabeth, what’s her name? W:	The senator from Massachusetts?

	T:	Yes, Elizabeth.



	W:	Is it Warren? I’m trying to think of her name myself.



	T:	Oh, all of a sudden I’ve drawn a blank. I’d like to say I think it’s too soon for her because she’s so [inaudible 1:05:58] being in political office but I’d like to see her eventually run. Elizabeth Warren, yes. I would love to see her run. I think she’s an honest, decent person. I have my reservations about Hillary because there are things about her that I like and there are things about her I’m not so sure of. I





mean, you always have to follow the money, in any situation you have to look where the money is.

	W:	Do you feel that maybe she missed her time not beating Barack? That this might have been the time for her instead.

	T:	Possibly, and I think any where she runs they’re just going to tear her up with Benghazi.

	W:	Would you rather see her as president or maybe on the Supreme Court? T:	Oh, I think the Supreme Court would be good. I do. I really do.

	W:	Of course there’s got to be an opening.



	T:	Wish there was, there are too many young people, conservative young people there. But Elizabeth Warren, maybe not the next election but the following one. I would love to see her win something like that. So I think more than anything else I would like to see a woman in charge of this country. But a compassionate progressive individual. Not, not a Sarah Palin.

	W:	Well, why not Sarah Palin? What’s wrong with her?



T:  She just doesn’t have the smarts. You know, Hillary is a brilliant person, a brilliant person. So is Elizabeth Warren, they are brilliant women. Sarah Palin, her politics aside, she doesn’t have the brain power for it. And her politics are just despicable to me.

	W:	Do you think that that’s really her, though? A lot of people believe what not only her but President George W. Bush, a lot of that’s an act. The policies, the presentation is just to generate support in certain communities. I mean, you found her to be unintelligent, but maybe she’s brilliant.





	T:	I’ve seen no indication of that at all. Have you ever read any Leo Strauss? And Leo Strauss was a philosopher who in the 1800s and he had this theory that the neocons have carried down through the years of three types of people in society. There’s the philosopher king, there are the gentlemen and there are the vulgar masses. And the philosopher kings are people like the Koch brothers and Dick Cheney and Paul Wolfowitz. These are the people in power. These are the people who really pull the strings to this country. And all the countries, not just our country. The gentlemen are the people like George Bush, who carry out the orders of the philosopher king. And that’s their function as bureaucratic, just doing what the philosopher kings tell them. And then the rest of the people are just the vulgar masses who we let in there. This is what Leo Strauss proposed.

And I think that’s extreme but I think there’s always a little bit of truth in things and sometimes I wonder about our society. When you look at for example the Koch brothers and they have how many billions in dollars? What’s it, 40 billion, or something like that. And they have their hands in everything, everything. And they’re libertarians. I wouldn’t be surprised if they don’t give a crap about Democrats or Republicans. They only care about making money, and exercising power. Which is what a philosopher king wants to do, exercise power. Start with Socrates and that whole idea of a philosopher king. And so I, and I don’t know if that will ever change. It’s not changing now, it’s even worse now. It’s how that 1 percent of this country that holds all that holds almost all the wealth, you know, more than at any other time in this country. So I think what he said has truth in it and a lot of it is just following the money and power. And I told a friend of mine





whose maybe 14 years old and we were talking a little bit about politics and I said, Sebastian, always follow the money. When you want to find the truth, always look for the money and you will find it. And I truly believe that. And I think that’s unfortunate and that money has persuaded people to go and behave in ways that they would never have done were it not for the money. I look at my little sisters and brothers and my parents were staunch Democrats. My mother voted for Adlai Stevenson and my father belonged to a union.

	W:	She voted for Stevenson twice though.



	T:	I think so. They just thought he was great. But they both voted to Roosevelt. My father belonged to a union, I told you they both had eighth grade educations. My father got a job at Phoenix Sprinkling and Heating as a shop foreman. And he worked his way up to being shop foreman. And so he made a decent living. And supported five kids and in a nice house and had a new car every other year, with an eighth grade education. That could never happen now, never happen now.

And what’s happened is that my brothers and sisters have been so brainwashed by Fox News that I had a conversation with my sister yesterday, who ended up yelling – she’s up in Michigan – we ended up yelling at each other because basically she told me that she’s never going to vote anything but the Tea Party. Ever and that she thinks that Barack Obama is the worst thing that’s ever happened to this country and going ranting and raving about this. And I’m looking at her and she’s sort of, they’re both sort of lower middle class, she and her husband. So are my other brothers, they are lower middle class. They all graduated from high school, I’m the only one who went on to college. They all





have just high school diplomas. And got jobs, my sister, my brother got a factor job working for American Chair, big chair company in Grand Rapids. I’m sure it’s not there anymore, they’re making chairs in China now. But I think that Fox News has reached them a long time ago and that’s the truth to them. My sister feels I’m terribly misled, you know, that I need to open up my eyes to see what’s happening in realize that liberals are the problem with this country. That’s my sister’s attitude. And that makes me so sad because I love my sister, but Fox News has done inestimable damage. I think especially to lower middle class throughout this country. And I don’t know. They are the ones that are always going to vote Tea Party Republican, there’s no way my brothers and sisters would vote any Democrat. So ask me what happened to me? [laughter]

	W:	Surely [inaudible 1:13:33] at the Samuel Proctor Oral History program I would like to thank you for this interview. You were incredible enlightening. I’m so glad that we got in contact with each other. And at some point in time I hope to continue to extend this conversation. I would like to give you the opportunity of what we call final privilege. I’m going to conclude my comments with our thanks with you to the interview and anything that you would like to say please add at this time. And when your remarks conclude that would be the interview again, with our thanks.

T:  So I speak right now? I just thank you for doing this with me. It’s a story that I’ve wanted to share and maybe you can have other people read and find out about something that made a huge huge difference in my life very early on. And so I





appreciate the opportunity to share this with you and hopefully with other people. That’s it.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Richard Brust, November 16, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, June 12, 2017 Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 23, 2019