AAHP 329; Ocala Hunting and Fishing Club; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 329 Ocala Hunting and Fishing Club (Lucious Connell Stevenson, Sr., Mary Carolyn Williams, Moses Mechan, Aldjenatu Rosemary Florence)

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Justin Dunnavant, Justin Hosbey, Ryan Morini on April 30, 2014 1 hour, 38 minutes | 55 pages













































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 329

Interviewee: Ocala Hunting and Fishing Club (Lucious Connell Stevenson Sr., Mary Carolyn Williams, Moses Menchan, Aldjenatu Rosemary Florence)

Interviewer: Justin Dunnavant, Justin Hosbey, Ryan Morini Date: April 30, 2014



	RM:	Okay, so if everyone could just go around and state and spell your names, so we’ll just have it, so we know—

	W:	Okay. My name is Mary Carolyn Williams. M-A-R-Y C-A-R-O-L-Y-N W-I-L-L-I- A-M-S.

	S:	My name is Lucious Connell Stevenson, Sr. L-U-C-I-O-U-S C-O-N-N-E-L-L S- T-E-V-E-N-S-O-N, Senior.

	MM:	My name is Moses Menchan. M-O-S-E-S M-E-N-C-H-A-N. I’m a member of the Hunting and Fishing Club.

	F:	You need me? RM:	Might as well.

	F:	I’m Aldjenatu Rosemary Florence. A-L-D-J-E-N-A-T-U R-O-S-E-M-A-R-Y F-L- O-R-E-N-C-E.

	RM:	I’m Ryan Morini—I don’t think we have to spell our names, so— H:	Nah. And Justin Hosbey.

	D:	And Justin Dunnavant. And today is April 30— S:	2014.

	RM:	And we’re in the basement of New Covenant Baptist Church. Missionary Baptist?



Yes, sorry, New Covenant Missionary Baptist Church.



	F:	606 SW Broadway, in downtown Ocala! [Laughter] H:	Ocala, Florida. MarionCounty. [Laughter]

	F:	We’ve so many folks who are not available now. So we grade the tales on it.



We’re trying to gather our history.





[inaudible question about if the interview will be video-recorded]



	RM:	We only decided against that for this because it’s more of a production. We’ve got to bring more equipment and set up more—

	F:	Right, exactly. So this is a beginning. We’re very excited. H:	We are too! [Laughter] We are too!

	S:	You ready?



	H:	Yes, sir.



	S:	The access and organizing of it. Hunting and Fishing Club.



F:   Yeah. I’m going to let you sit over here so you’ll be closer to the mic. S:  Yes, okay.

F:  And Deacon [Menchan], you sit over here too. Because you guys are going to be—no, you’re good! Because you right in front of it. So the three of you come and sit right here, you’re closer. I’m going to be.

RM:  I think we’re good.



F:  You’re going to want to lower either that seat or this seat so you’ll be near the mic, the recorder.

[Commotion as people continue to adjust seating]



	F:	Oh, okay. He didn’t bring his hearing aid, so you may have to speak up a little bit. H:	Okay. Okay.

	S:	You ready?



	MM:	Yes sir.



	S:	All right. Well, we organized back, I would say during the time of the [Civil Rights] Movement, in the—[19]60s?





	W:	Yep.



	S:	The reason we saw fit to organize something is because so many things had happened across the country to our people. It just wasn’t justified, you know what I mean? And we decided we would try to protect our people, which was our young people at the time marching and going, sitting in, and Dr. Pinkston just had got out of college and came back and started this in Ocala in Marion County. And I will tell you the truth, and I know this will go on the record. Marion County ain’t the best, is not the best county in the world to live in, but it’s my home. It’s our home. And we had to try. We not, we wasn’t bad guys. We never had been bad guys. But we wanted to protect our people from the bad guys. A lot of bad guys around here—still is. So we organized a Hunting and Fishing Club. This church right here, the older church was sitting right here in this same spot. Of course, Brother Menchan can tell you about the church more than I can once we get to him. But it was old, wood-constructed church. You know, built out of wood, timbers, sitting up on old concrete blocks. Right, Brother Menchan?

	MM:	On concrete, yeah.



	S:	On concrete blocks. It had, I think it had slide-up-and-down windows, didn’t it?



Or, stretch-out windows.



	MM:	Stretch-out windows.



	S:	Old-type windows, opened from the side and all that kind of stuff. So it wouldn’t have been much to put a few sticks of dynamite under it and blow it up.

	MM:	Mmhm.





	S:	But we used to get these threats that, it was, the bad people was going to come in and blow it up because they was having mass meetings here. The youth was marching up and down the street, sitting in and whatnot. Dr. Pinkston had organized them. And they wasn’t afraid. They was arresting them and putting them in jail, parents going down and getting them out, getting them out and all that stuff and whatnot. And then they would start threatening about blowing the church up and doing something to our people and whatnot. So a few of us, just a few of us—and you know, it’s been so long ago, I kind of looked for some records, but I didn’t see any records. And I asked Brother Menchan. But we organized right at our house. Right at my house at that time. On 5th Street, down the street from Jones Elementary School. Little old garage that I had built right there, and we had organized right at the garage. It was about—how many, five of us?

	MM:	About five or six, yeah.



	S:	It wasn’t over half a dozen at that time. But we organized, and we came and watched over the church, and when the Youth Council would come in from marching and all that kind of stuff, in the afternoon they’d have the mass meetings. And that’s when we would come, on mass meeting night, because we figured that was when the bad guys would want to do their damage. And we watched over—we didn’t come in the church. We mostly stayed outside around the church, you know, to make sure that nobody come and undermine us, you know. And after the meetings, we would escort the Pinkstons’ home. We’d escort them out to Silver Springs. And we would stay out there all night until the next





morning. By the time we get home, time enough to go to work. I know it was three of us working at Swift and Company at that time. And we could come home time enough to get our rest, go to work down there. We would have to drive our cars out there. Car come down to Nebo—which, Nebo was about a half or three- quarters of a mile from where Dr. Pinkston and all lived. At that time, Silver Springs wasn’t near as populated as they are now. And then nobody living—it might’ve been maybe one or two families between Nebo, and—you know where Nebo was. And where Rev. Pinkston lived. So they was kind of in an isolated area out there. They could easily get to them, you know? Right across in front of they house was nothing but forest, like woods. So we’d go out there, that’s where we would stay at night. Over in the wooded part of the house where they would have to come upon that road and whatnot, you know. We’d stay up there the next morning, we’d leave our weapons at they house, walk back down to our vehicles and whatnot, get in our vehicles, come on home, go to work. Next night—we did it night after night, sometimes. But not, you know, just regular, every night. But in the heat of the battle, we was doing it every night. Every night, in the heat of the—what would you call it? The—[Laughter]

	H:	Movement?



	W:	Movement. It got hot!



	S:	Heat of the Movement, if you put it that way. Yeah, we stayed out there every night, sometimes. We made a sacrifice. And we made that sacrifice because of the things that happened to the little girls in Montgomery, and what happened with Emmitt Till, and those kinds of things, you know what I mean? That’s why





we did that. We didn’t do it for any—And they knew. They knew over there we had organized. And during that time, [Kenneth Hood] Buddy MacKay was running for an office. One man here in Ocala right now, one of the richest persons in Ocala, Greg whatshisname—On Seminole. All the old ones dead now. Greg still living. He was in college at the time. We was having a function for raising money for Buddy MacKay to go to Tallahassee. And I don’t know whether we had it. Down on they property, or somewhere it was. And it was a few of us there. Well, I know, probably me and Whitfield and some old guys was there. And he came to me, he said, Yeah, so I heard y’all got a hunting and fishing club.

Said, and you the president. I said, Yes, I am. He said, Can I join your club? I said, Yes. [Laughter] But he was just joking, you know. But he did come and ask me that. So they knew what was going on. And that kind of kept them back, because they knew good and well we had shotguns and buckshots out. And we was going to sure use them if we had to! Okay? And that was the purpose of us organizing that Hunting and Fishing Club. And it went on, the Hunting and Fishing Club went on beyond me, and beyond some other people. Because when they started the auxiliary police work and all that kind of stuff and whatnot, we’d went through the heat of the battle then, the heat of the Movement. And I myself, I kind of backed away. Because see, they appointed me president at that time. And I kind of backed away because I had to be raising young children, and this man here [Menchan] was raising his family and all, you know, and whatnot, and we just didn’t have the time that we had had prior to. But it went on. The Hunting and Fishing Club grew big when they started that auxiliary, you know





where they was working on the auxiliary force with the police and doing, you know—you remember.

	W:	Mmhm.



	S:	Okay. And y’all remember, I see. [Laughter] So I kind of backed away. But we reorganized again after that period. A lot of those fellows passed on now, but it was a big thing then. Because they was doing that auxiliary stuff, and they loved to do it, and it was a asset to the community, I think, too. That was good, too, you know. And then it went on, and then we—it kind of phased out, and then we reorganized again. [Laughter] And we got the real Hunting and Fishing Club up then. And it was the kind of fishing club where we organized and we should be worth something today, but then it—that—didn’t last. So—I don’t know. I guess that’s about where we are now. It’s about phased out now. Complete, now. But when we organized together, we did a lot of things. We shipped chit-on from cropping up in Alabama and everything else, but we don’t. But anyway, it was an asset, I think. A great asset, and a security for the community back in that time, you know. Now, help me with another question.

H:  I’m interested to know how you formed. When you first formed the Hunting and Fishing Club, what kind of spurred that on and what was the process of getting that formed as an official club?

S:  Well, here’s what it is. We didn’t become official until later on in the year, this little Hunting-Fishing Club. We just named the club something off the top of our heads that we would have to take to court or whatever. Had to go to court, we could





say, Yeah, we the Fishing Club. We’ve got this announced fishing club, and we should have the records somewhere–

	F:	Because most of the men in the community did hunt, and did fish. Because we only had a few paved roads, and a whole lot of wooded areas.

	S:	That’s right. That’s right.



	F:	So, mostly, this community had wooded properties next to anybody’s house. You could find rabbits and squirrels in a pond here and there. So hunting and fishing is basically what people in this community did. Before you went to the grocery store, you were hunting and fishing. That was a lifestyle.

	S:	Exactly.



	F:	So, it was a great name and cover for the organization, because it was true to life that they hunted and they fished. And they had poles, and they had their rifles.

Out of the culture of the community, yes.



	W:	And I’d like to say that this particular group was perfect to transition from hunting and fishing—but to transition into something else—because it was at a time, as he said earlier, for us—where we needed a protection arm of the Movement. We weren’t very popular. [Laughter] And so, we have these brave men who decided to do this. And I’ll talk—I don’t know if I should go ahead and talk about that part, or wait—

[Brief exchange about plugging the recorder in closer to interviewees to minimize background noise.]

	S:	Y’all working for some company, or—?



	H:	No sir, we’re students. We’re PhD students.





	S:	You’re PhD—oh, okay. So this just some history y’all trying to gather about the— W:	I appreciate that.

	D:	Oh no, we appreciate it. Because we go to the University of Florida, and we don’t hear Black history too much—about Gainesville and the surrounding area so—

	W:	I understand.



	S:	Mmhm.



	H:	And it’s sorely needed.



	D:	Yeah, this is our way of getting out of our department and getting out to the community.

	H:	Yeah.



	S:	That’s great. You know, this stuff happened in history, but that’s good because, see, this is something that you’ll never—you know what I’m—

	H:	Yep, yep.



S:  If we didn’t talk about it, then you’d never know about it. [Exchange about whether or not to move into the other rooms.] D:  We going to stay?

H:   Are we moving? Or staying?



	RM:	Well, either way. I mean, the classrooms are good. They have less background noise, so we can—but I mean—

H:   Is there enough for us—all of us—to go into?



	RM:	A little tighter, I’m sure we can all fit. I mean, it’s—I think we’re having a preliminary kind of pre-interview discussion right now, so I—

H:   Uh-huh.





	RM:	But it’s up to everybody.



	F:	Well, I’m fine right here. Then you want to break up and go to the classrooms one-on-one, then that’s good. So if you want to stay here, if you can filter out that constant noise, then that’s good.

	H:	Okay.



	F:	So we’ll just continue. H:	Okay.

	RM:	Yeah, I don’t think it’ll be too bad.



	H:	Yeah. Because I mean, Justin was saying how, you know, we transcribe it all. So we’ll be able to transcribe and get it all right, and then for our one-on-one interviews we can go back and really get those for individual voices.

	F:	Okay.



	H:	Yeah, Yeah. That okay? W:	Mmhm.

	MM:	Fine with me. W:	Is it back on?

	RM:	Yeah, I think so. It’s been—yeah, it’s been going. [Laughter] H:	Yeah, good, it’s been going, good.

	W:	You know, I just want to say that—I want to express how special the Hunting and Fishing Club was to us. You know, as a young person growing up. I’m fourteen, fifteen—and whenever we arrived here at Cullin’s, for our mass meetings— which were held in the evening so that everyone could come.

	MM:	Mmhm.





	F:	On Wednesday.



	W:	And—I really didn’t know “Hunting and Fishing Club” that way. [Laughter] I really did not realize until after a while. After a while, that they were actually the protection arm of the movement. Because I would walk—I lived down the street. My brother and I would walk up to the church. My mom, we would all walk up to the church for mass meetings. Okay. First people we see are these guys and all the other ones. So what were we doing? Everybody knew them by name, How you doing, Mister? You know, by name. Everybody. And as I began to internalize what was going on—not while I was doing that “Hey everybody, hey,” but as I grew older, I said, you know what? Because they would have one person periodically to come inside the church. And we’d smile, and we’d see him, whomever it was. Y’all know what I’m talking about!

	MM:	Mmhm. S:	Oh, yes.

	W:	Because they were doing it. I’m just an observer at the mass meeting, a participant, but—And then we would—one night we walked down to the church for mass meeting, and there were lights under the church. I mean, didn’t y’all have—is that right?

	S:	We probably didn’t—I don’t remember it step by step, but—



	W:	I could just see. Because I walked in there, the church, and see all of this was going on after the four little girls were killed in Birmingham. I am not thinking about what this is then. But as I matured, I understood how significant they were.





Because they were actually the protection arm of our movement. Because we had no one but ourselves. And so, I’m just grateful.

	S:	Yeah, well—good.



	W:	I’m just grateful that—



	S:	We done a lot of things, I’ll tell you the truth, in that movement, that I’ve really forgotten, really. You know, like the lights and things. I think I can—

	MM:	Put lights on, under there. Uh-hm. Church used to sit up about four feet high. And every weekend we’d work on those lights, get those flood lights ready. So if anybody would go up under, we could see them. It really was—we had a group putting those lights under there. Because I was one of the guys who put all this under our church. This was our headquarters. We had to protect it. We had to realize the whole—old church, wooden. Wooden church. You—one blow. But we had it all fixed up.

	S:	Oh, yeah. I just want to mention one thing here—mention about the dirt roads and whatnot? See, even out in Silver Springs, you go out there now, you’ll see a lot of paved roads all cutting around through everywhere. Years ago, a lot of those places wasn’t any roads. And the ones that was there, was wagon and horse roads.

	MM:	Mmhm.



	S:	You know what that was? That’s two dirt roads with the grass in the middle of it. That kind of stuff. [Laughter] That’s the way it was when we used to walk through the woods and stuff out there. Wasn’t no paved roads and all those people out there like there are now. But it was strictly country.





	F:	And no street lights. Unh-uh.



	S:	Right. And like she said on the hunting and fishing; that was something real popular here then. So we could easily get by Hunting and Fishing Club, you know what I mean? And nobody could question that. Because all those White guys, they had hunting and fishing clubs, per se. “This is our club,” you know. And there was a lot of bird hunting, quail hunting at that time. Like this same guy I mentioned, Seminole? Mr. James. Mr. James, he was raising dogs, some of them bird dogs at that time because there was plenty of hunting around. We didn’t have all the horse farms and things taking up all the land and whatnot then. But now, that’s bridge under the water. [Laughter]

	MM:	Yeah, out on boats.



	S:	Yeah. Yep. But it was something real protective for the community, and like I said before, that’s the reason we organized it: to protect our youth and our community, and especially Dr. Pinkston and whatnot. He came back and he was a brave soldier, you know what I mean? He was courageous, too. He wasn’t afraid. Covenant was the only church in Ocala and Marion County accept to have the mass meetings. Am I lying?

	F:	No.



	W:	You’re right, you’re right.



	S:	Telling the truth. The only one. MM:	The only one.

	F:	Only one.



	W:	You’re right.





	S:	And it wasn’t because of old man O.V. Pinkston. It was because of Frank and his momma. Am I right there? [Laughter] Tell them folks Menchan. Come on, now. Because he was kind of afraid like all the rest of the pastors and whatnot, and so on and so forth. You know what I mean? And that was another thing. But wasn’t going to let them get to Frank and our youths and all our peoples and whatnot.

That was our back and forth for doing this. We wasn’t afraid—and then another thing: we used to wake up the next morning and go to our job, and they wouldn’t say, “You fired.” “You fired.” We was working for Swift and Company at that time. And we was professional butchers. Now, I’m telling you, they couldn’t pick up just anybody off the street and do our jobs. And we wasn’t afraid, you know, to stick our necks out and call a spade a spade, if you want to put it that way.

	D:	Did anybody at work ever give you any—



	S:	No, they never did challenge us on that, did they Moses? MM:	No, unh-uh.

	S:	No sir, they never did challenge us on it. And they knew what was happening. We had one old fellow out there with us, Mr. Oscar Donaldson. Mr. Oscar, now, he was right on the head of us organizing our little group here for protection. Mr. Oscar Donaldson. Old fellow. You know, lot older than us, so [inaudible] no old man. [Laughter]

	F:	That was my cousin. S:	Mr. Donaldson?

	F:	Mmhmm.





	S:	Yes, Oscar Donaldson. And I don’t remember whether John was on that committee or not, then.

	F:	I know my dad—no, he wasn’t, because he was deceased. But I know that my dad brought us to the meetings. Every Wednesday. Every Wednesday. And one year, my mom was vice-president.

	S:	Yeah, okay.



	F:	Of the NAACP.



	S:	Okay, okay. Well see, you remember that. I can’t remember all that. F:	Yeah, we have the newspaper articles.

	S:	Okay. Well, all right.



	F:	And—I’m going to let Deacon, I want to talk through his talk. [Laughter] Deacon Menchan, tell them about—because there were no lights out in the springs, what you guys did to—do you remember how you all would set the traps out so if anybody would walk through the woods—Do you remember those traps?

	MM:	Yeah, oh yeah, we’d set these things. See, we had to house—[phone rings].



The family house. It was all in the middle. But on four points of the house, all four points, four points of the—south and the north, we had it all fixed up. Four points. West-south, east-south, east-south [north], west—all four points. We had about fixed up, about fifty or sixty feet of cords. We could mash a button and all the points of the woods would be lit up. Mash it, anybody couldn’t come out of them beams of light, they’d get in danger. We had it all rigged up. Every night, when we was suspicious of anything, we could just [mimes mashing the button]. And





you couldn’t move. You couldn’t even move your feet unless you knew the password. You’d be in danger if you didn’t know the password.–

	D:	Could we ask you what that password was?–



	MM:	If you moved, you had to holler: “One. One.” If you moved anywhere in that area, you had to holler out the password. And so we were at our own foxhole, in our own foxhole beneath them. We had it all rigged up. And we came here to the church, where they escort them home. Where he’d be in safety. And after that, we got him home, then we could spread out. Some would stay all night, and some would go back home. But it was, we really had it fixed up.

	F:	Because actually, you would get—some people got phone calls. Death threat phone calls.

	W:	Oh, yes.



F:  You can ask any number of people. Death threat phone calls. S:  Mmhmm.

F:  For any participation. And if I’m not mistaken—this is jumping ahead a little bit— but I believe that Ronald Coleman, when he accepted his—he was at University of Florida, first Black athlete. He got death threat phone calls.

W:  Yeah, we was afraid of that. Ron’s mother and my mother were twins. He’s a great guy.

H:   Okay.



	F:	He’s okay. He’s my classmate, so—small community. W:	Small, yeah, really.

F:   Go on, Deacon Mose, about the protection.





	H:	Because I have one, I have one question about the—did any of you all, because you mentioned the traps, did you have military training prior to? Or was it just stuff that you just came up with on your own?

	MM:	Came up with it on our own. S:	I had been in the military.

	F:	Hunting training.



	H:	Hunting training, yeah, yeah.



	S:	I got some of the military. I got out of the military in 1953. March of 1953, I got out.

	W:	You know, I would like to ask you stellar members of the Hunting and Fishing Club a question. Now, I don’t know whether this was folklore from my generation or what, but we—the story was passed down, and I didn’t hear it until I was much older. But they said that, one night, a group of men came out nearing the Pinkston property. And they were hollering and screaming and “Raaaah! Yahoo!” making noise in the truck, and they said when they got close enough, all they could hear was click-click, click-click, click-click, click-click, click-click. And they [Claps] got out of there! Everybody! [Laughter]

	S:	Let me tell you this. Let me tell you this right here. Now, the lights and things went up later on. We used to go out there in the dark.

	MM:	Uh-huh.



	S:	Brother Menchan, right here: we’d be in the woods, in our fox holes and whatnot, around our little safe joints. And Brother Menchan, he could hear better than anybody in the world. I knew then. He say he got hearing aids now, but he didn’t





have hearing aids then! [Laughter] And he’d tell me, he said, he’d say, “You hear ‘em out there? You hear ‘em out there?” So, actually, they was tipping around the woods, trying to get to us and whatnot. You know? You remember that Brother Menchan?

	MM:	Yeah, I remember that.



	S:	He could hear them, hear the leaves, you know what I mean? Hear them walking around out there. We could, after he would, you know. We could hear people walking around the woods and things like that. Am I lying?

	MM:	That, that’s true. S:	Is that true?

	MM:	That’s true.



	S:	Tell them about it.



	MM:	But what we did, we had tin cans. On string. S:	Yeah, hanging on from—

	MM:	String them all down through the woods. Hit them cans, they go [Makes clacking noises]. They’d string them on a wire, and then anybody walk in that area, we could hear them walk. Any given night. But they stayed out of the range of those cans, as much as they could. But they really was afraid. It really was something. Concerned about it. We had our family—I had family. I had three sons and a daughter. And we had to raise our family. We didn’t want no sugar, nor shotguns. So everything worked out real, real good. It really was something we built among ourselves. And we had a lot of—like I said, it’s just a few around now, because most of them is dead, deceased. But I think they all did a





wonderful job. Most especially coming to the church. But them officers was, had to—went with us, that push them up. Lot of them, we standing near windows on chairs and ladders. But we had those, had to fix it real good. Because those— you could walk under the house, because it was sand. But they had those floodlights and all protective ways. If you went under there, you could see it. It really was something.

	F:	And we had a lot of people in the movement to come here. Frank Pinkston, the son of the pastor who was Reverend O.V. Pinkston, had gone to school at Virginia U. And to my recollection, he had met Dr. King. And had been a part of training, and a part of the Movement while at college. And so, there are a lot of people that came to speak at our mass meetings who had national prominence in the Movement.

	W:	Mmhmm.



	S:	That’s right.



	F:	And the Hunting and Fishing Club were responsible for making sure that they got into town safely, and that they got out of town safely. Am I not right?

	S:	That’s true. MM:	Yes, mmhm. S:	Very true.

F:  They used to escort people to the county line, many days. I remember the students from Gainesville talked about feeling safe because they would be escorted around. In and out. Safe passage at that time.





S:  We had done a lot of—we would go and pick people up from the airport, and arrange that. They was coming in with speakers and stuff, you know, a lot of times, and take them back and all that stuff.

H:   Did they fly into Jacksonville, or—?



	S:	Well, they’d come into Gainesville, Orlando, and so forth. We usually, our speakers would usually come in here from Orlando, Gainesville, or a labor camp or something like that. Not Jacksonville, I don’t remember ever going to Jacksonville. But anyway, we helped assist everything we could that served the Movement, because like sister Florence said, When Dr. Pinkston came back in, he was well-trained how to organize his youth group. And hop for the board and all this kind of thing and whatnot. And it was some people that was involved, then I came—remember, I don’t know, my memory bad, and that came here that really, but some of them was in that kind of stuff, you know? That had worked under Dr. King like she said, and they was ready for the Movement. And all that is what got us to where we are now. It wasn’t an even chance, but we—yeah.

	MM:	We were really blessed with not having any cold facts incidents. We were really blessed, I think. Due to the training we had, you know, on our own. We had no trouble. Nobody got hurt. We were really blessed.

	F:	No lives lost.



	W:	No lives lost, no incidents at the church, and nobody was—many of us were walking during that time, and there was never a problem. Because the members of the Hunting and Fishing Club stayed until everybody was in their cars, out of their vision. And most of us, Ocala was very small, but in terms of our living





nearby in the area, we didn’t live far far away. So, I am—when I finally learned that, about, when I was a little bit older—and I don’t mean that much older. [Laughter] At the time that I was here and involved in the movement, I knew that they were here all the time. Because they were saying hello to everybody.

Everybody knew everybody’s name. And they were here when I arrived, and they were here when my family and I walked back to 712. So—

MM:  Yep.



S:   We proud about the way that we went through with that. I intend to get a picture of that house over there. I sold that house I guess about seven, eight years ago, but the old garage and the house and things still sitting there. And I intend to get a picture of that, and I intend to get you a picture, that way we all can have it.

F:   We’ll try to do that.



S:   But anyway, you could go down there and—



	D:	I have my camera with me, if you all wanted to go later or something. S:	Oh, you have?

D:   Yeah!



	S:	Well, it’s right next door. Brother Menchan live right next door to it. F:	Well okay.

	S:	You know where I was over there. [Several people speaking at the same time.]

	S:	You could stand out front and take a picture of the garage and things back in where we actually organized.

	MM:	Mmhmm.





	F:	And Mary Caroline happened to be one of the members that was arrested. So she’ll talk about that experience. [Laughter]

	H:	All right.



	F:	Either now, or one-on-one. H:	Individual interview, okay.

	W:	But she doesn’t want to say—



	F:	I did not get arrested, I came after the arrest. But I was in court. So that’s further down the road. She’s a couple years older than me. [Laughter]

	W:	We could talk about it now. F:	Okay. [Laughter]

	W:	I was a part of the youth organization. And there were a number of us. And all of us were available to participate, those of us who were allowed by parents to do so. We were very happy to be a part of it, because we’re watching TV, and we’re seeing what’s going on in other parts of the country. And understanding that we had the same problems and issues as these kids were having. Or these adults were having. So here comes this dynamic young preacher. Reverend Frank Pinkston. And I—also at the time, there were young people who were in college that had come home for the summer. And they, too, were involved with us. So it was the right time for the youth movement here in Ocala to take off. I remember—and some of them are gone—I believe Ed Tomland—I’m not sure if he was president, but I know he was a leader. Whether he was president or not, he was a leader.

	S:	[inaudible 38:44] Youth Council?





	W:	Mmhmm. And I remember that everything we did was strictly business. I remember that it appeared, probably, to many people that were on the outside looking in, that people would just say, Come on. Come on. Let’s go down and picket. That’s not the way that it was. Before any of us could participate in what we called “nonviolent civil disobedience,” we had to be trained. And everybody that thought that they might have to fight, that they have to fight, couldn’t participate. Now they could stay at the church, and help with other things. But if they felt that they could not strike back if someone hit them or bumped them, they had to stay here. They could not—and you know what? Everybody had their place. Because there were some kids that said, Hey, nobody’s stopping me. If somebody hits me, I’m hitting them back. That’s it, I’m telling the truth. And that’s the way they would say it. So it was good that they were honest about it.

	F:	They couldn’t go.



	W:	They couldn’t go! [Laughter] They couldn’t go. And we were trained in this basement. It was right here. We had a mock counter right here. And the trainers, we would—because in sit-ins, we’d come in one by one. You don’t come in as a group. Come in one by one and take up whatever seat is available. And we did that here. And we had people who were training us that would come behind us and try to nudge us. And we were taught to maintain whatever position you had. You had to maintain it. So they would, you know, push us, and we would go back to that. Okay, nobody liked that part of the training, okay? But we all understood—because we were between fifteen and eighteen at that time. So because some of the kids had come home from college, you know. So I’ll say





fifteen, eighteen, and maybe nineteen. But anyway, they were new college students. And sometimes, the kids would say, as I said earlier, Hey, I can’t do that. And it was okay. Because they were up front. Because they knew that that would damage what we were trying to do, if they lashed out. So we, when the leaders felt that we were really prepared, and ready to go, we left. And also, in terms of picketing, people just thought we grabbed a sign, and you just went down there and started marching. No. Everybody, first of all, had to know how to picket. We had to practice standing there. They had to know. Because you couldn’t be too close to each other, because you could be charged with—what is the thing where you’re gathering, and they’re—Anyway, we couldn’t be with so many, we had to be a little bit distanced between each person. And sometimes, I look at some of the old pictures of picketing, and I look at them saying, Mmhmm, they knew what to do! [Laughter] And it would be from all over the country. They had that stance in terms of moving along the picket line. So we did this. I had the same spot every time. We would leave here, and I’m going to tell you, the things that were very important at that time were appearance. Nobody came to even mass meetings—we came, and you remember, everybody was—not dressed, but—

	F:	Like church.



	W:	Like, I’m wearing jeans. Okay. We didn’t wear jeans to mass meeting. Girls did not wear pants when we were picketing. We basically wore skirts and blouses, or dresses. The boys wore shirts and long pants. And usually in that day, belts were very popular. [Laughter] So they had on little white shirts and a belt. But this was





not—I just, because when I’m listening to people, they say, Oh, we could just come on and let’s picket. Unh-uh! You didn’t do that here. I mean, we were strictly business. And there was a place for everybody that wanted to help. So I was, my place was on the picket line. And I don’t know, my mom—bless her heart. My parents are gone. But my mom let three of her five children participate in the movement. The only reason the other two didn’t is because they were little ones. My older brother was in college. And this particular summer, it was the summer of [19]64. That was the hot summer in Ocala. Marion County. Was it [19]64?

	F:	I’m trying to think. W:	I think, because—

	F:	Freedom summer, what is that, the typical freedom summer. Is that [19]64? H:	Yeah, because this is the, what, fiftieth anniversary.

	F:	50th Anniversary, yeah. Which is when all this was stirring up.



	W:	Okay, so it was hot in Ocala. And I don’t mean temperature! But the Hunting and Fishing Club was very busy, very active. And—yes, it was [19]64. It was [19]64. And we picketed every Monday through Friday at specific spots. My spot was in front of the Ocala hotel, which was—and we picketed right in front of the restaurant of the hotel. Every day. Every day, and it was very hot, but we didn’t care. We’d walk for hours in our little spaces. And the good thing about it for us is that we knew that someone was always watching us. And they were referred to as “observers.” And we could not–no one could walk away from the picket line unless the observer nodded. Because we would get their attention, and they





knew we wanted something. And then we could go to them. And then, we would have to go, sometimes way down to the barber shop to use the restroom, if that was what we needed, which was about two blocks away where Uncle Murray and Uncle Cranford and those were. We would have to go there to use the restroom, and then we’d come back and get on the picket line. The picket line never stopped moving, until the observers said, We’re done. And then we would walk back to the Covenant. But there was one day when something, a situation occurred—There was a young man that was the president, and I cannot think of his name! Maybe I’ll think of it as we go along. But this young man was president of the youth council at the time. And he was walking ahead of me, and a woman—if you can envision cars with these long fins? Okay. There was a woman that came and parked right in front of the area where we were picketing. And we had to do what we had to do, we had to keep moving. But the gentleman in front of me, when she began to back to do her parallel parking, she bumped him, and he fell on the concrete sidewalk. So he was rolling back toward her, so I stopped, and I got down and just held him. And the observer saw us. And I stayed on the ground. Everybody else had to keep walking around us, and they did. Because, like I said, you can’t go out there if you’re not trained! That’s just the rule. And she came and got the young man, and I had to keep moving. That’s how serious it was. And interestingly enough—and I’m going to think of his name eventually, but—interestingly enough, I’m at a, some kind of activity down in Broward County, years after this. And I’m talking with this young man. And I said, I told him I was from Ocala. He said, Were you involved in the Movement in so-





and-so? I say, Yeah. He said, You remember a young cocky president of the Youth Council? [Laughter] I said, I know who you are. I say, You remember when you got bumped? [Laughter] I say, I’m the one that stopped you from rolling. He was just—Oh, my God! Because I wouldn’t have known him, had he not asked if I were from Ocala. But he told me, he said, Oh my God, thank you! I just didn’t know who it was. He said, but Reverend Pinkston writes about the incident in his book. That’s what he told me.

	F:	Is that right?



	W:	Yeah.



	F:	What book is that?



	W:	He told me—I don’t know anything.



	F:	Okay, we have to investigate. [Laughter]



	W:	Yeah, yeah. He told me a book that Reverend Pinkston wrote. Reverend Frank G., the leader of the Movement wrote. He said he talks about it in his book. So— But anyway, I just use that as an example how, you just don’t—you have to do what you have to do at that moment, but you had to keep moving. Because we could have been arrested for whatever charge it was decided. But we weren’t, and we kept moving. But that was frightening! I’m fifteen, there are kids—there was probably somebody younger than me on the line. But I just wanted to share that because that’s the way it was. And we were fortunate, really, not to have worse things happen to us.

	S:	Tell them about some of y’all did get arrested, now. Some of y’all did get arrested! [Laughter]





	W:	Oh yeah, I was in—Two of my brothers and I were arrested at the same time! [Laughter]

	S:	I know Tumbly was one of them.



	W:	Tumbly was one of them. And I have that article, I have a part of that article with me I wanted to share. But this was—

	F:	Well, where is that? Where is it? You have to share it.



	W:	Well see, I left it in the book. Because it’s so old, I didn’t want to take it out. I just, I left it. But it was, this was in reference—this was, here again, in that hot—I mean a bunch of us were arrested.

	S:	Mmhmm, yes.



	F:	I think I was thirteen that summer because I didn’t start until after they were arrested, picketing.

	W:	Yeah, we were—



	MM:	This the old church here, the old wooden church. [Looking at photograph] W:	It’s in here, I’m going to find it.

	F:	Oh, you got a picture of the old church?



	W:	Oh, yeah. But I—Where is it? Just because— MM:	There it is. [Laughter]

	W:	Oh, that’s the old Zion. This is Zion. F:	Oh.

	S:	Oh, that’s Zion.





	W:	Because, and it’s in the paper because the county bought the property from the church. Because that’s the site of the new courthouse. That’s where our new church was. So that’s what this, that’s the purpose of this picture.

	F:	Oh, no! I didn’t realize that.



	W:	That was my grandmother’s, my grandparents’ church. Well, but anyway, I’m going to find what I’m talking about. It’s in here somewhere. But—

	S:	Well, while she looking for that, y’all had trouble up at McCrory’s 10 cent store up there [inaudible 52:00].

	W:	Oh, there were a lot of—yeah, there were a lot of sit-ins all over the square, the courthouse square. The place that I’m talking about where the Ocala Hotel is, imagine the—Is that bank, is that place still a bank?

	F:	Mmhmm.



	W:	Okay, there’s a bank on that corner. And then, right across the street from it is the square.

	S:	Mmhmm. That’s Bank of America now. It was Barnett at one time. That what you talking about?

	W:	Yeah, right down from where Reinhardt’s used to be. No, Reinhardt’s was south, on the south side of the street?

	S:	Mmhmm.



	W:	Okay. As you passed all those places, cross the street. You know where Harry’s is?

	F:	Right.



	W:	Okay. Just east of Harry’s, across the street, there was a bank there.





	MM:	Mulder Chambers.



	W:	There you go. And then, just north was the hotel. And that’s where we picketed the hotel.

	S:	Up on the next block, yeah.



	W:	And it’s in the next block, just across the street. The hotel was right there.



	F:	Because downtown really was just a square. You had the square which is now still the square, and all the businesses were around the square. And a few were a block maybe above or east or west of the square, but that’s where your stores, your banks—really, Ocala’s business was in that square, like, for a long time.

	S:	Right.



	F:	That’s how small the businesses in the city was. It really was around the square. S:	In the courthouse square.

	F:	In courthouse square.



	W:	And see, that was the place where—it was just segregated. F:	All four streets, right.

	W:	It was segregated. And there were counters, like— F:	MacCrory’s.

	W:	MacCrory’s had a counter. So all of those businesses were targeted. And the place that I’m talking about had a coffee shop, the hotel. But anyway, I’m going to move into the situation where so many of us were arrested. There was a gentleman whose name was Zev Aelony. You know that name? He’s been, he was a, he’s been a fighter for a long time now. The first time I saw him, probably that same year, I don’t know, I’m in Tallahassee at a 4H club activity, and we see





this young White gentleman at FAMU addressing whomever wanted to be there. Okay. We were at the 4H Club. So guess where we went? Right over there to see what’s going on. And we realized, I believe, that this young man—he may have been from Minnesota. But anyway, he was from out of state. And he was talking about the importance of people coming together. And he talked about non-violence. And see, he was talking what we’re hearing, okay? And it was like, ding-ding-ding! Light went on in my head. Okay. I forgot about that, because we were only up there three or four days, and so we come home. And then eventually, I end up involved in the movement. This young man had come to the University of Florida–had gone to the University of Florida. And while he was there, for some reason, during our hot summer, he came to Ocala. Okay, he was arrested in Ocala.

	F:	Ooh.



	W:	Uh-huh. And see, everybody knew the routine. People would be arrested, and all of the sudden, they’re “mentally ill.” And see, that was a buzz word for us. When they start talking about that, trying to say something is wrong with a person, there’s a problem. So, our leadership decided that we should do something to get this man out of jail as quickly as we could. And they called him a “Northern sympathizer”–because those were the words. And like, even as kids, we know because we’ve heard it and seen it too many times. Okay. Here it come, now. It was decided that we were marching on the jail, the county jail. And we did. And we marched right through the gates, into the property of the jail. And we were following our rules and our training—how far apart—and we were not running,





we’re not pushing. We walked. We marched into the jail, single file. And our leader was asked, Why are you here? And they told them. And they asked us to leave. A couple of people might have left. And the rest of us, they opened the jail, and, I’ll tell you what: arrested us. [Laughter] And again, even that. Everything was done orderly. That’s why I tell people: we were not just doing something to be doing something. We were very well-organized. And I am very proud to say that. And because we were organized, things went smoothly most of the time.

But anyway, we marched right on into the jail, my three brothers and I. I had forgotten that we were all there until I read an article years and years later. No, I didn’t, because, we marched into the jail, but I was worried because I didn’t want my brothers with everybody else that was in jail. I mean, all the other prisoners. And anyway, the girls were behind a steel door. But I could, I put my head on the floor, because I could hear one of my brothers. And I could hear Don’s mouth.

My younger brother. I could hear his mouth. So I—



	F:	I didn’t know he was in the numbers. Oh my goodness!



	W:	Uh-huh, he was in jail. He was a jailbird. [Laughter] So he was in jail, but I couldn’t hear my baby brother. And I’m thinking, My God! Because he was a big boy. Thinking, Oh my God. They have put my brother with the adult residents or whatever, whatever you call them. Anyway, with the other people who are in jail who are adults. And—

	F:	Inmates.



	W:	Inmates! There, yes. I knew he was an inmate, but I didn’t want him with the



grown inmates. You got it. But, so here I am. Oh my goodness, if I were this age,





I would not have my face on the floor of the jail, okay? But I was with my brother, I didn’t care. And I said, Where is Craig? I’m just hollering. Where is Craig? He’s there, like, there are cells about that far from the wall. And so I could see them. And they said, Oh, he’s back there sitting on the bunk playing cards. And I say, here I am putting my face on this dirty floor! [Laughter] But anyway, okay, when that happened, that was fine. I didn’t care. Because he was not alone. I didn’t want him alone. So I had put my finger on, I had basically put my finger on my brothers, and I was fine. Well, we thought that there was—well, I know what happened. I figured, I don’t know what happened, but, before we were arrested, Mrs. Miriam Hampton was there outside the wall. As I told you, there was somebody always watching us. And everybody was hollering to Mrs. Hampton. Because she could tell them she could see us, and that she knew we were okay, and that we were being arrested. She could come here—no cellphones. She could come here, and say, I seen the kids. They’re okay. They’re marching inside the jail. So I’m hollering. None of us want our parents to get into trouble. And we always thought of “Contributing to the delinquency of minors.” Even though that wasn’t the case, but we knew that that was being used. So everybody was screaming to Ms. Hampton. Tell my mama ‘don’t come down here!’ Because I knew I was hollering. Ms. Hampton! Tell my momma ‘Don’t come down here!’ I was! I was, I hollered until she looked at me. [Laughter] Because I did not want my mother down there. She didn’t come. My parents didn’t come. Because she came to this church. Everybody was at the church. This is where everybody came. They came to the church. We were arrested when the—and Ocala was





small. The word got out like wildfire. Everybody was at the church. Everybody came to the church. So we went from, we got in the paddy wagon. And they lined us up, all the girls got in this thing. I said, Oh Lord, where are we going? We were all together, so we were smiling. We were just a group. We had been picketing for months. Everybody was a group. And we were taken to juvenile detention center. Which is very small. You know where that is? I’m talking about the old—

	S:	Yeah, the old one. Yeah.



	W:	Yeah. So we’re sitting there, and the people—there was one woman, and she was scared to death. Because all these kids, she has all these kids! And she didn’t realize, we’re not going to do anything. She didn’t realize that. So we sat there, and we chatted with each other, and then somebody asked for water.

There was a water fountain right across the wall. I didn’t realize why we couldn’t have water. Until I thought about it, but guess who shows up? Ms. Hampton.

We’d been there for hours. We were all hungry, but more thirsty than hungry. But we couldn’t use that water fountain.

	F:	That would be the White water fountain.



	W:	I’m getting ready to tell it! [Laughter] Ms. Hampton came in. And when she walked in, it was like a rock star. “Ms. Hampton! Ms. Hampton! Yea, Ms.

Hampton!” So, I’m sure the woman there is saying, “Mrs.?...but I opened the door too.” But she was probably wondering, “Who is this woman? But she was somebody that was dear to us we all knew her. We also knew, this is our lifeline to outside, right now. And we weren’t being mistreated at all, believe me. We were hungry, and we were thirsty. So Ms. Hampton walked in, and what do we





do? Start telling on them. She said, How are you doing? But first: We want water, and we can’t drink water. She said, Well, why can’t you drink water? “Well, the fountain is broken.” That’s what they told us. Ms. Hampton put her foot on the pedal, and the water just came right out. She say, Come and get water. She didn’t move. She put her foot there. And we were just—oh, just in it, and trying to—[pantomimes rushing to the water]. [Laughter] But it was just exciting, you know, for her to have come there, because she didn’t have a child there. Her child was at the jail. She came to see about us.

	F:	That was LeRoy, at the jail? W:	That was Carrie.

	F:	Carrie. Oh, okay.



	W:	LeRoy might have been, but I know Carrie was. Ms. Hampton came to see about us. She said—and I talked with her about it later, and she told me—I said, Ms.

Hampton, how did you end up over at the detention center? She said, I was coming to see about my friends’ children. That’s what she said. She’s passed away now. But I got a chance to say that at her funeral, what she had done. But after that, look. It’s too many people to feed–my way of thinking. They couldn’t get our parents to come and get us. One or two did. So it was around dinnertime, one by one. One by one. One by one. And Covenant was waiting for us because when that first one got there, celebration. And then everybody had a celebration. One by one. So, that was an experience. That was the only time. But that was the big thing, because it involved an agitator from the North. [Laughter] I wanted to say, I saw him when I was at 4H, you know? Come on! He’s doing it because





he cares about people. And I think he’s still writing. Every now and then I’ll—but he doesn’t, he remembers that situation, I’m sure. But I felt that my involvement with the Hunting and Fishing Club, knowing who they were and what they did— I’ve been walking since I was fifteen. I just wait for the next opportunity. I will stand up, I will speak out, because of the opportunity that I was given as a child to see these strong man, and to work with these strong kids, and to hear the words every week of Rev. Frank G. Pinkston.

	S:	Amen.



	W:	He was the most— F:	Dynamic.

	W:	—dynamic—



	S:	Courageous.



	W:	Man of God.



	F:	Brilliant.



	S:	Yes.



	F:	He was our Dr. King. W:	Yes he was!

	F:	He was mesmerizing as a speaker.



	W:	Yes he was! And there were so many children here at night for our mass meetings. They put us—there were so many people. But the children, they piled us all in the choir loft.

	S:	Mmhmm. [Laughter]





	W:	All of the children sat in the choir loft. And it was like this. [Huddles.] But we didn’t care, because our Reverend Pinkston was going to speak. And he was going to lift us up. And when you left there, you were floating. We were all floating.

	F:	And we did sing. [Laughter] W:	Oh yeah, oh yeah, and we— F:	We had Movement songs.

	W:	Oh, yeah. Oh, oh, we sang— F:	“We Shall Not Be Moved.”

	W:	“We shall—” And we would get real loud. “We shall not, we shall—” F:	Placid and rhythm, it was a—

	W:	Oh, we shall not be moved! We sang it every time—



	F:	But I look at the community now. The children have no idea. W:	They don’t.

	S:	That’s true.



	F:	Because this was such a progressive community in terms of African Americans in the Movement. But where are the people, the young people who participated? I think—Carrie’s in Heaven, so that was like, that’s my age group. And everybody that came after me, they benefitted, but—

	W:	Exactly.



	F:	—they weren’t part of it, and when the schools became integrated, they didn’t teach about it or talk about it. So if we didn’t carry the stories, and carry the news—I had one teacher, who was younger than me, tell me—because she was talking about the Movement, and she was like, The Movement came to Ocala?





[Laughter] She said, I just thought they decided to integrate. I’m like, Oh! People paid dearly! You know, time, money, jail. A lot of people even left town, a lot of people left town. And so, out of that, out of the youth group, I can’t even think of anybody else who was on the battlefield, or in the picket line, that really is still here in Ocala or is living. I’m trying to think!

	W:	Well, I’m hoping that those who were involved and left Ocala left and did continue. Because you know, that’s what I did.

	F:	Right. But you know a lot of people—



	W:	And I think a lot of them that left went to college right afterwards. A lot of them were very active, because things were still hot.

	F:	And some did not return.



	W:	And some did not return, like I—



	F:	Yeah, so we’ve kind of lost a group. We lost a large group. S:	That’s right.

	W:	But you know, I’m grateful. I got–there were a couple teachers, I get the opportunity to just speak to the kids. And they’re very interested. And they say, What? Where? In Ocala? I say, Yeah! Yeah. They don’t even know how the schools were integrated, and how who went where, when, and you know.

	F:	And they don’t know the Black businesses that were here before, I don’t know, the downfall of the Black community here in town.

	W:	Before the—





	F:	The pharmacy, the bank, the stores. They have no clue. Not a clue. They think just think that this is the way that it always was. A lot of them are hopeless because—

	W:	And they don’t stay here.



	F:	Well, some of them can’t leave, but—



	W:	I’m not talking about the ones who can— F:	Yeah, the progressive ones, right—

	W:	—leave.



	F:	That’s right, they do.



	W:	I left. I just came back. [Laughter]



	F:	I left. I’ve been back. I’ve been back for a while. She’s been back for a while. W:	Yeah. [Laughter] After I retired.

	F:	We—I went to college, and I’m back for a few years before retirement. But we have—so this is the anniversary, the 50th anniversary of the Movement, is an opportunity, really, to tell the story.

	W:	Yeah.



	F:	And pass on the history. W:	Yes.

	F:	Because the torch has to be passed. And guess what? The Movement, the progress of the Movement—We can see everything being rolled back. Voter’s rights? It’s like the anniversary. We’ve got to gear up again! We’ve got to fight the same fight all over again.

	W:	Yes.





	F:	We’ve, you know, we’ve lost some ground. W:	Yes.

	H:	Can I ask a question? I was wondering, and you all can speak to this because I know you all had children too. And what was it like as a parent, you know, having Black children growing up in this setting, and then having children. Some of them want to get involved with the Movement, some of them just want to—what was it like as a parent, trying to figure out, Should I let my kids be involved in the Movement? How did you all make sense of that?

	MM:	Mine weren’t quite old enough at that time.



	S:	Yeah, our children wasn’t really old enough to march along with these young ladies here. We were just out—they were real young kids at that time. But anyway, what happened nowadays, y’all–I might as well tell the truth about it. Our children, they don’t know nothing about they heritage. They—when the schools integrated, and they take the rights from the teachers to teach the children instead of babysit them. Our children, and not only our children but a lot of other children, lost a lot of things. Our children don’t know anything about the history of Ocala and Black businesses like what she talking about. See, there wasn’t nothing but Black businesses all the way down along here, all the way on up to the courthouse square. Was just about Black businesses. Now, you can’t find probably a single one, hardly. The funeral home down there. It’s still—but, now listen: the integration helped us in some ways, in some ways it hurt us.

Because what happened, now, let me tell you what really happened to us. We used to have the forty-acre farm in the country out there, and around and





whatnot. And you take people like Mr. Crompton, and Dr. Jones, Dr. Hampton, and people like that, they used to own a lot of property right here in Ocala and Marion County. All of this stuff up in here was property owned by Blacks. But we lost all of that. Mr. Davis—

	W:	I was going to say, Mr. Davis—



	S:	Mr. Davis had a filling station right across the street there. One right across the railroads. Black cleaner was right that thing there. But anyway—

	W:	Insurance company.



S:  Yeah, insurance company, right. But I’ll tell you what happened. When President Reagan was in there, and they start building all these high-rises in the cities and whatnot—He put these ladies, these people in there, these families and whatnot. They sold their forty-acre farms and all this kind of thing, moved to the cities.

They started giving them this, and giving them that, and give them this, and giving them that, and they didn’t have to work. They ate, they helped them pay the rent, light bill, and all that kind of thing. That didn’t help us at all. That didn’t help our oncoming generations at all. Now, I said it might sound dumb, but they still doing the same thing now. And it’s probably going on and on and on now, because people now got to have it. Because you take most of them people right now, they feel like everybody owe them something. Most of them. If you didn’t teach your children that they got to work for what they get, to earn what they get and whatnot, they feel like somebody owe them something. They’ll sit around and wait for, depend on somebody coming up giving them something. Am I right?





	W:	Well, I believe that there are people who actually do use the help to move up and out.

	F:	Mmhmm.



	W:	But then, there are those who for generations have not known to do that. They have just received the help.

	S:	Yeah. I’m talking about the majority, now. They’ll sit down right now. They won’t reach out, you know what I mean? Right now. I’ve seen it happen right here.

Time after time after time. Fellas have left Ocala and went somewhere else, and came back to Ocala. Got a job the next week. I know some fellas right in Ocala still sitting down here now saying they can’t find a job. And that’s just not right.

They could find something to do to survive. I don’t care if it’s washing dishes, raking your yard, mowing grass, or whatever. They could find something to do. You know? But now, if you got that group out there now where they’ll sit down and won’t do nothing, and get into trouble doing all those things there, and got no business doing, trying to make it, and all that kind of stuff, you know? And it’s hurting us, but we can’t help that, that’s the way it is. The government took the strap out the parents’ hand, out the teachers’ hand, and the man can’t rule his home no more, and all that kind of stuff. All that stuff didn’t help us any.

	F:	Well, I know some—in my household, my sister and I, we were in Orlando, in my grandmother’s house, and we saw in the Orlando Sentinel where students in Ocala had been arrested. And so we immediately called home and said, Hey. We need to come back and be in the Movement. So they had to come and get us from summer vacation, and we talked about it as a family. And my parents said,





you know, You’re young, it’s dangerous. And so as a family—we entered the Movement as a family. So my mom, my dad, and the older—my sister. We were all together, the others were too young. I said I was thirteen, and the other ones were younger. And so that’s kind of the way it happened. But when you took a lot of the teaching out of the system during integration, and you didn’t—Black teachers were the foundation of the community.

	S:	That’s right.



	W:	Mmhmm.



	F:	And when the schools were integrated, the Black teachers lost the ability to discipline, and teach Black history. And so you have several generations who are just not knowledgeable, and have not been able to have a vision because they don’t see the vision. I taught a lot of kids, and they leave home and then come to school, and that’s as far as they go. They haven’t left their community to see groups of Black businesses, or Black businessmen, or women, or a social group that’s upwardly-mobile. And so when they see nothing but despair, then they despair.

	S:	That’s right.



	F:	So we really have a big job to do. And maybe the schools aren’t doing it. It does start at home. So it’s a combination of parent training, along with the youth, to motivate them to show them new horizons, so that we don’t continue to lose these generations. Because we have grandmom, momma, and then grandchild, and nobody’s been gainfully employed, no one has a skill. You know, the children can’t see how to get ahead. They can’t see how to get ahead. I’ve had kids say





to me, Well you know, my mom goes to church, and she prays all the time. But both my brothers are in jail, and they’re just hopeless. So that child has not seen how to grab hold of anything to move forward. And more than likely, the child’s going to be a problem in school, may not finish, and then there again you have this generation that–it’s a cycle. But where there is opportunity, where there’s vision—because if people can do better, they will do better. Nobody really wants to be poor, uneducated. They use that as kind of a defense. They’re aggressive as a defense, because they feel inferior or in despair. So they’re, they want to be aggressive. So we really have a big job in terms of reaching out to our young people. But you can’t get them in high school. You really have to start early on.

	S:	Early on.



	F:	You have to start early on. So if you’re teaching your child in your household, my grandbaby said to me, Grandma, why do I dress like a college boy? They say I dress like a college boy. He’s six! I said, Because you’re going to college. “Well, why do I have to go to college?” Well, because your dad’s in college. I went to college. And you need to go to college to get a job, a house, a car. I’m not going to take care of you, your dad’s not going to take care of you, or mom, forever.

And so yes, you look like a college boy, because you going to be a college boy. So right now, he knows, he already knows, that he’s college-bound. And some people—I think it’s a collared shirt he wears every now and then, because his dad wears a collared shirt, you know, but—

	W:	[Laughter] Yeah, but that, it’s wonderful, though.





	F:	You know, little mini-me. They just really make my heart leap for joy, because I see the path that they’re on. But he’s getting, these are older people that are saying to this child, already, You look like a college boy. And they’re not saying it in a nice way. But why would you put a child down? Because maybe you don’t have college in your family, and so that’s like, what, a put-down? Maybe you think you’re all that? Or no, you’re not fashionably dressy. But he’s six, and he’s already got that put-down because he’s already striving. Because he’ll say, I attend Madison Street Academy Magnet School. So he’s already of the mindset. But a lot of young children aren’t getting that same training. So you really do have to reach back. Reach back.

	W:	It’s very difficult to get kids who really need the kind of, I guess I’ll call it “indoctrination”—really. I’m telling you, you need to be indoctrinated that you going to be good! That you going to run this company, or this nation. You have to be indoctrinated. And we, as a people, have to find a way, how to get those kids, those families, inside of, not necessarily an organization, but activities that can help them.

	F:	That is a challenge.



	W:	And I’m going to tell you: the thing, and this may not sound too good, but it’s the truth, the thing that helped my generation is that we lived in a community where family was near you all the time. That’s the way it was. Auntie lives on the other end of the block, the other auntie is in the middle of the block, and you’re the next. And then everybody in the neighborhood knows you. And you consider them your parents, because they can jack you up like somebody else, your





Momma, can. And then you going to get another one when you get home to your mother.

	S:	Yeah, it used to be that way.



	W:	We need to care about each other. Right now, no matter what community we’re in—but it’s too hard to do that because people don’t want you to say anything to their kids. And it’s not like you could walk around and get permission from every parent to, “If you see my child running across the street, stop them. Or if you see them doing this, or fighting, you can stop them.” And when we lost that, that’s when we began to lose a generation.

	MM:	Yeah, that’s when it happened.



	W:	A generation. And I don’t know where to start. But organized religion—church— F:	Sunday school.

	W:	—is a part of the answer. F:	Absolutely.

	W:	Because that’s one place that nobody can say, that this is Ms. So-and-so’s program. Okay, this is the Sunday school lesson. And all of the lessons, as we know, have something about living skills in them. There’s something in every, every, every, every every. When you have, when you get those life skills together, you can move forward. Now, you might fall off the wagon every now and then, but something is going to tell you, “Unh-uh.”

	F:	For a reference to return to.



	W:	Yeah. You can think about, Didn’t Ms. So-and-so tell us, if we did so-and-so, that was going to happen? Well, it’s the truth. But it takes a village.





	F:	It takes a village.



	W:	It’s not that me and my child, and you and your cousin. It’s, everybody has to— it’s very hard to do that. It is not undaunting. It is—I’ve been trying. I know I’ve been trying.

	F:	I teach the, I have two Sunday school grade levels, on different Sundays. I have what we call the teenichers.

	W:	Okay.



	F:	These are the ones that we have a baby bed, and we have from the babies up to kindergarteners. And Sunday we had, my grandson was baptized, along with other little teenichers. And really, they are ripe and ready. So, Sunday school, you have to drag them. You have to drag them to Sunday school. And if you’re not dragging them to Sunday school, then you got to take them in your car from your community, and take them to the library. Take them to the Appleton Museum. Or, when my son was growing up, every summer we had to read a book. So when the kids would come over to play, I’m like, well, we haven’t had our reading time. So everybody who was there had to read. And there was one young man—my son’s 25—a couple years ago, saw me and told me. Because he would always be the one who would want to stay and read. And I was like, Okay, we read our number of pages for today. And this kid would go, Oh, I want to read some more! And they were like, We’re done, man! Okay? Let’s go! [Laughter] But he said to me, no one read with him, and no one read to him. I was the first one. And so he remembers that. And I was just so shocked because, well, reading is what we do. And we do it in the car, we do it at home,





we do it—we’re reading. We’re always reading. My dad trained us that way. We had road travel games. We had to know—when I was growing up, there were 67 counties in Florida, which there are still. And we had to know the tag number to match the county. Ocala, Marion County, was 14. Dade County was 1. Duval was 2. And we had to know those counties by number. And all the time, you wouldn’t see the name of the county, but you would see the number. And even moreso, people say now, if you’re Black, you’ve got to be twice as good. You’ve got to do twice as good. Well, my dad raised us: you got to know it, and you got to know it forward and backwards. So I tell this story all the time. Linda, my older sister and I, we learned our ABCs forwards and backwards. We counted forwards and backwards. Sometimes now, I even start from the back of the book. Sometimes I read flipped in the mirror, because I can read forward and backwards. But it was just something my dad would always say. So when my sister and I got old enough to mix with other children, and we realized, it was like—you only know your ABCs forward? You don’t know them backwards? [Laughter] We thought everybody learned forward and backwards! And we were, like, shocked. So what we would do is we would get together, and we would say our ABCs backwards. Well now, I’ll be 64, she’ll be 66, and we still every now and then get together and say our ABCs backwards. [Laughter] Because that’s how we learned! And we just thought everybody learned them forward and backwards. So, to my surprise, that was in its own way—but we knew we had to strive.

	S:	That’s right.





	F:	We knew we had to strive.



	W:	I’ll tell you, mediocrity was unacceptable. Mm-mm, I’m telling you.



	F:	Exactly! And we had excellent teachers. I remember I didn’t have Ms. Small.



	When I came to town, Ms. Spraggins was it? Ms. Smallwood— W:	Ms. Spraggins, yeah, was a kindergarten teacher.

	F:	Yes. And those kids had to speak the King’s English. And you can tell right now an adult that would tell you about the learning that they received, you know, in kindergarten, that took them through life. Ms. Rush, my sixth grade teacher. You had to be outstanding. It was just expected. Just expected. Required. Given the opportunity, and led to it. You know, we have learning disabilities now. You may have had one, but you were still going to get a certain amount, no matter what the learning disability was, or what the economic background was. You were going to get that learning. Whether you spent time off the playground, extra time—no exceptions.

	D:	Do you know where these teachers came from? What their background generally was?

	W:	Ocala. [Laughter]



	F:	Okay, what do you want to say? Did they go to Fessenden Academy, perhaps, maybe?

	W:	They went to, uh-huh, Fessenden, and— F:	Howard Academy.

	W:	—Howard Academy, and I’m trying to think—They went to Belleview, St. Halls, and what’s that school in Dunnellon? Hard Rock. Stanton.





	F:	Yeah, Stanton. Stanton, was that Jacksonville? W:	Unh-uh.

	F:	That was here? W:	Out in Weirsdale. F:	Oh, Weirsdale.

	W:	Mmhmm.



	F:	Okay. But education was really— W:	Was very important.

	F:	—as a matter of fact, we came from Jacksonville in 1962, roundabout. And there are seven children, all the school-aged kids, we went St. Pines Catholic School. And so we knew education was important because you were educated over in that school. And so, we had books everywhere, and we knew education was important in our family. And one of the reasons my dad said that we were going to move to Ocala—there were a lot of other reasons, but one of the reasons was a high high school graduation rate, and the level of education of people in Marion County.

	MM:	[inaudible 1:31:55] F:	No, it’s a—

	W:	It’s not the same. But, there were so many people that were role models here in our community.

	F:	College degrees.



	W:	With—they taught us, not just the ABC. They educated us above and beyond what was required in the schools.





	F:	Exactly. Exactly.



	W:	And they had full support of the parents. If you had a problem in school, you really had a problem when you got home. And it was just unacceptable. It was unacceptable to not sit there and be respectful and get your lesson, to learn.

	F:	Mr. Stevens is going to have to leave, I’m going to—I have to take my grandson to an 11:30 dentist’s appointment. So, do we want to stop here?

	H:	Maybe we can come back for the individual interviews, maybe? F:	Sure, you can.

	D:	We can do this once a week if y’all like. [Laughter] F:	Maybe you can stop your tape and we can continue.

	D:	Maybe we should just do closing remarks so that people transcribing know who’s in the room, and—

	F:	Oh, oh, oh.



	RM:	Yeah, I figured we’d have broken up at some point, but— [inaudible background discussion]

	D:	Pardon me?



	RM:	Oh. Well, yeah, so we can— D:	Oh, for the recorder?

	RM:	—get the closing remarks.



	F:	You need to say some closing remarks if anyone [inaudible 1:33:28]. RM:	Can I ask one more question, just backtrack?

	F:	Well, sure!





	RM:	So you said people brought in Civil Rights speakers. Was that organized by Reverend Pinkston?

	S:	Yes, he had a lot of them to come. W:	He knew a lot of them.

	S:	He knew a lot of them, from his school, his training and whatnot. And he invited them to come. And like I said, a lot of times we had to help him out on transportation from this.

	F:	Through the NAACP, our organization was NAACP, so we were connected with the national NAACP. So we were on that circuit.

	RM:	So what was the attendance like at these? W:	Packed.

	RM:	Okay.



	F:	The church would be overflowing, and the yard would be full. All around the church, we had scribblings, and the yard would be full.

	S:	That’s right.



	F:	Almost everybody in town was here. S:	In the county. [Laughter]

	F:	In the county.



	W:	In the county.



	F:	In the county, people came from all over the county, yes. Not a seat in the house, and shoulder-to-shoulder in the yard.

	S:	That’s right.



	W:	Like this. [Pantomimes squeezing in shoulder-to-shoulder.] Right. Every week.





	F:	On Wednesday.



	W:	The choir loft, which was huge, would be filled with children. Children could sit out. We all sat in the choir loft, and we were like this. [Pantomimes again]

	F:	Overflowing. Always an overflow.



	W:	So two to a seat or whatever. But we were like this, but we were glad. We were having fun. We could sing, we clap, and devotion was wonderful, we sang songs.

	F:	Yes, and great speeches. We heard a lot of national people came through. S:	Yes.

	W:	And Reverend Frank Pinkston was so, such a dynamic speaker— F:	On fire, he was on fire.

	W:	—if we didn’t have a guest speaker, we didn’t care. S:	That’s right. That’s right.

	W:	Because we knew that every night, we were going to hear Frank Pinkston, Reverend Frank Pinkston.

	H:	Packed house. MM:	Mmhmm.

	W:	And he was, by the way, a teacher at Howard High. F:	He was an English teacher.

	H:	So a pastor and a teacher.



	F:	Pastor and a teacher. The Hosea Williams who was close to Dr. King, on my father’s side, he’s my cousin. So he came here to speak. He was among the speakers. Because I was talking to Garvey just a couple days ago, and he was telling me all the people he remembered that came here, that were national





speakers that came here. And how he got the personal view, up close and personal, because his dad was the pastor, and his brother was Frank Pinkston. And you know, just how impressive that list was. So maybe I’ll, he’s one person I would also like to be interviewed, because he’s a brother of Frank Pinkston. And then there’s Ann Pinkston. She was here for a time, but—or sometimes, she was out of town.

	W:	Ann, where is she?



	F:	She’s still, she’s here in town. W:	Oh, okay.

	F:	Mmhmm. So there are some other people. We want to begin the process. So. D:	Yeah, definitely.

	H:	Yeah.



	F:	Now, do you need them to speak and say their names and get their voices?



Okay.



	RM:	That would help. Should we make it a separate track, so it’s easier to—



	S:	I’d just like to say this: Reverend Frank Pinkston was so effective because he was a Marion County young fellow, and he had motivation for these young people in Marion County. And he had a lot of prestige with the older folk here. Because he was the young man from Marion County, went off, got educated and trained, and came back with something to motivate these young folk. And that’s what got the interest of the older folk here, of us the older folk here. And a lot of the older ones yet, you know, to fall in line. And we got good support. Good support out of the entire county at that time. People would be from all—Anthony,





Reddick, you name it—coming to these mass meetings and take a part and be active in it. You know. He would just—I don’t know. He was just a, I don’t know what you call it. Icon? Man of the people, you know what I mean?

W:  He was. He was an icon. F:  Icon.

W:   Yes.



F:   And on fire. On fire.



W:  Every—I mean, people came because he was there. You know? We knew why we were there. He was there. He was going to be there at Covenant. We knew every week. Whoever may have been the speakers from out of town, we knew that Reverend Pinkston, Reverend Frank Pinkston—

	S:	Is there anything else we got to get through here? W:	Yeah, they got to get your name.

	RM:	Here, let me just, uh— [End of recording]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, Aug 19, 2014



	Audit-edited by:	Justin Dunnavant, September 26, 2014 Final edit by: