AAHP 792; Wallace; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 792 Walter Wallace 2-28-2020 Interviewed by Ray Eberling on February 28, 2020

64 minutes | 49 pages



Abstract: Born in Repton, Alabama in 1947, veteran Walter Wallace and his family moved to Pensacola, Florida one year after his birth. In this interview, he details his experiences growing up during Jim Crow Era segregation in Pensacola, including attending segregated schools. Describing his hard-working single mother, he reflects on the importance of community support provided by the Black Pensacola community. As a young teenager, Walter delivered papers for the Pensacola News Journal, which he and his young coworkers eventually boycotted to demand fair pay. He says that small gains were made, but growing older, he decided to search for work elsewhere. Reflecting on the impact of the Civil Rights Act—which occurred two years before his high school graduation—on Pensacola, Walter explains, “Immediately, it wasn’t no great change.

Change is just like take one inch at a time, because the mindset, like anybody else, a piece of paper don’t change a person’s personality, his mindset.” Walter goes on to describe his drafting into the US Army in 1967, his basic training, and his service in Germany and Vietnam. With an infant at home, he retired from service after one tour, for which he received the National Defense Service Medal and other Vietnam medals. Walter then describes his industrial employment back in the US. To conclude, he details his community involved as a member of the NAACP and the American Legion Post 193, and as president of his neighborhood association, where he was instrumental in achieving the Woodland Heights Resource Settlement.



Keywords: [African American history; American Legion; Jim Crow; Pensacola, Florida; segregation; veterans’ history; Vietnam War]



AAHP 792

Interviewee: Walter Wallace Interviewer: Ray Eberling Date: February 28, 2020



	E:	This is Ray Eberling with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida. Today is February twenty-eighth, 2020. And today I am interviewing—

	W:	Walter Wallace.



	E:	Could you spell that, just for the record?



	W:	W-A-L-T-E-R. My middle name is James, J-A-M-E-S. Wallace is the last name W-A-L-L-A-C-E slash senior.

	E:	Okay, well thank you very much. Could you tell me when and where you were born?

	W:	I was born in Repton, Alabama in the county of Conecuh there. E:	Okay, and the month and year, if you don’t mind? Birth date?

	W:	September 16,1947.



	E:	Okay, thank you very much. You were born in a hospital there, or was it a home birth?

	W:	No, midwife, midwife.



	E:	It was a midwife? Okay. Do you remember her name by any chance? W:	No, I sure don’t.

	E:	Okay. Did you grow up in that town?



	W:	No. They tell me we moved here when I was about one years old, in Pensacola.







	E:	Pensacola. And then so you grew up here? W:	Right.

	E:	Okay. Any particular story about growing up here you’d like to share with us?



Anything you can think of what it was like growing up here?



	W:	Well, my age is seventy-two, and really, you look at it, my age group is about the last one that really knows about segregation. My children went to integrated schools. My great-grandchildren and grandchildren are going to integrated school. I didn’t ever go to an integrated school until I got out of high school, and at the time where downtown here in Pensacola, we had where the civic center, it used to be a school down there. At the time, that’s when Pensacola Junior College started during integration. So I was going out there taking a business course, but they had a little part of the business with the civic center had a school down there, and that’s the first time I ever went to school with Whites.

	E:	Okay, so that would have been maybe about 1965? W:	That was 1966.

	E:	1966, okay.



W:  Mmhm, that was in 1966, the first time I ever went to school with Whites. E:   Anything particular stand out in your childhood? Any experiences?

W:  Well, I guess I experienced what lots of African Americans experienced back in them days. I can remember the time on Saturday and then we might have to go up to the bus station. There were very few places that we could use the







restroom. Then, back then, the lunch counter and all of that was separated. You all have your water fountain and your bathroom and whatever else was separated. Back then, there was a limit. My mother, she really, I guess, she probably finished the eighth grade, but she was a hard-worker. We had three children, and my mother, most of the time, cooked. She was a cook. But basically, I had the advantage of back then my mother like I said. My father wasn’t there. In fact, I’ve never seen my father. But my mother raised her three, but I had the support, ‘cause I had my granddaddy and my uncles and then the men in the neighborhood. They helped. Back then, the other people look out for you. You do things around the corner. [inaudible 03:34]. Basically, I really didn’t realized till I got twenty-two that I grew up poor. To me, although it was a lot of things we didn’t have and my mother rented sometimes. We moved too. Maybe stay in a place a couple of years and then move, but most in the same general area. I guess, ‘cause I didn’t have a whole lot of clothes, but they were clean. I had plenty of food. I didn’t have a whole lot of luxuries. I guess luxuries. But you got two or three toys for Christmas. Everybody else, I guess, I looked at everybody else’s homes the same. The other thing, we had some people, ‘cause back then you had educators and people with different jobs—like my uncle. He went down on the base. I always say stuff like that.

	E:	Pensacola Naval Air Station?



	W:	Yeah. There were lots of people that had those kind of jobs that paid upscale compared to a single mother cooking. Like I said, but you had to buy. I couldn’t go to this place in town. I couldn’t go to that place. I couldn’t do this here. I







couldn’t hold certain jobs. I remember when I used to throw paper for the news journal. What they would do—we didn’t ever have a Black manager. We always had a White manager. Then you had to deal with him about certain things. Each day, you had to watch him, because he’d try to cheat you out your money. In other words, he’ll tell you that what will you do, I’m gonna pay you. Say you could have a hundred and forty papers in the morning—except back then they had the afternoon papers.

	E:	Yes.



	W:	Yeah, they had the afternoon papers. So you might even get, say, a hundred in the afternoon, ‘cause most people took the morning paper. But he’ll tell you to deliver a hundred and fifty, and then you’d have to fight him, ‘cause he’d want you to pay for a hundred and fifty where the other ten got whatever you’d have to pay over the ten go in his pocket. And then, just like businesses, like I said, segregated, they’d have a Christmas dinner for the Whites. They’ll all go down to Marshall’s cafeteria downtown. So they want to put us in an old [inaudible 05:58] with a boxed lunch.

	E:	So this was the newspaper throwing a dinner?



	W:	Oh, yeah, news journal. Oh, yeah, Pensacola News Journal. They were prejudiced too. They didn’t have no White writers and only Black was going down there doing cleanup. They might have one on the press, because even if you got back in them days, that job was strictly White, because it was a technical job making good money. So that job was just White.







	E:	Were the press people, were they union in this town at that time? Do you know?



	W:	I really didn’t know, because we didn’t associate. Only time I had a chance to associate with them, it was one time I did went down there and ask the janitor, when I was in high school. ‘Cause the year before I had stopped billing paper, because we did a boycott to get equal treatment for paper. And we throwed down. And then I would never go back. We gained a little something, but I didn’t ever go back, ‘cause then I was about fifteen so I started looking for other jobs. The oldest, kept me a little job. It helped my mother out. Just basically, marching downtown and all this kind of stuff. Getting called all kind of names, stuff thrown at you and all that kinda stuff back then.

	E:	Back in high school, what was the name of the high school you went to?



	W:	I went—Well, Imma tell you what they did. The high school—I went to two. Back then, what we did, we had ‘em separated. You go to elementary school. I went to

A. A. Dixon Elementary from one—first grade—to sixth. Then they had what you called junior high, where you go there from seventh to ninth. I went to Booker T. Washington Junior High School, which was on [inaudible 07:48], ‘cause it was over the Baptist church on that site. Then, on the eastside of town, on [inaudible 07:54] Drive, I went to Washington Junior—Washington Senior High School. And that was for the ninth through twelfth. And then on that campus, they had Washington Junior College and Washington High School on the same campus.

	E:	Okay, so at that time, there was both an African American junior college and the Pensacola Junior College as separate—







	W:	Right, right.



	E:	Again, what year did you finish at Washington High School? W:	At that school, I finished, graduated in the 1966.

	E:	Okay. Now, 1964, a big event happens. The Civil Rights Act of 1964. W:	Right, right.

	E:	Did you see any immediate change from that?



	W:	No, because I remember when we tried to go to the bowling alley, and they ain’t wanna let us in the bowling alley.

	E:	After the bill was passed?



	W:	After the bill was passed. Immediately, it wasn’t no great change. Change is just like take one inch at a time, because the mindset, like anybody else, a piece of paper don’t change a person’s personality, his mindset.

	E:	So you got to go to some of that junior college training, but at the time, if there were two junior colleges—

	W:	Right.



	E:	—eventually they merged.



	W:	Right. That’s right, when they merged.



	E:	You don’t remember about when that happened?







	W:	No. It had to happen around about [19]66, ‘cause I graduated in [19]66 and that’s when I went down to the corner of Pensacola. So it had to be around that area down there. It might have been before there.

	E:	Before the real integration of schools occurred, which really was—even though in 1954 it was supposed to start, and it wasn’t really until the early 1970s—did you have any friends that went to the White schools?

	W:	Okay. Right. We did.



	E:	Freedom of choice, as they called it.



	W:	Right. Well, what they did, back in them days, when they started integrating, they’d want you to take a test to go to a White school.

	E:	Okay.



	W:	And now we did have some people in my class went to Pensacola High. It was about five or six or seven of them went to Pensacola High. And then, see, another thing, too, is that they had been going to, like I said, take a test to go to the school, and the integration itself was a sore thing. The last all-Black graduating class at Escambia High School was in 1968. In 1970, they started doing more integration, which last all that class in Escambia County. What we do—we just did it last year in December—we had, we called the class of [19]60 Christmas party down in Korean Jones Center, and that’s all the classes from [19]68 up to—from [19]68 on up. They graduated. Because all of those—all from [19]68 up—everybody went to a segregated school. Now that includes schools like Ransom High School in Cantonment. You heard of Ransom High School?







	E:	Yes. We have some people out there today.



	W:	Right. We have Ransom High School, and then you have Century High in Century, Florida. And that’s where everybody said they need to get out of Alabama, ‘cause Escambia County don’t do nothing for them. And then you had Saint Joseph’s School—you know, Catholic school.

E:  Well, let’s go back if we could, backtrack just a little bit. Not as far as high school, but go back to maybe the younger part of your childhood. And you said you were one of three children?

	W:	Yes.



	E:	And where were you in the order of age? W:	I was the youngest.

	E:	Okay.



	W:	I was the youngest. The baby.



	E:	You had older siblings kind of looking after you?



	W:	Yeah, right. I had two older sisters. One is passed away, one is still living. E:	Okay. In your household, who had the chores? What were the chores?

	W:	Well, I, myself, I washed dishes sometimes and make beds and stuff. We were basically—there wasn’t anything about it. One thing about it, we knew one thing: when my momma come home, the house had to be clean. If it wasn’t clean, then







she ain’t gonna ask who did this and who did that. Everybody would—so we all made sure—

	E:	Okay.



	W:	Okay, yeah.



	E:	And hopefully your sisters took pretty good care of you? W:	Right, yeah, yeah.

	E:	In the neighborhood, in the community, you’re going through this period of time, early 1960s leading up to 1964, which you said nothing much happened here.

	W:	Yeah.



	E:	Were you involved in any of the civil rights movements here in town? W:	Oh, yeah.

	E:	Tell me some of that.



	W:	Well, when they had—oh, I forgot this guy name. Dr. What-you-call-it. He came in town, started organizing the NAACP, and some of the marches I went on, because I think one of the smartest moves they made when they started using children.

	E:	When they started using— W:	Children.

	E:	Children?







	W:	Children, you know, in the marches. E:	Yeah. Yes.

	W:	That was one of the things they did, because people couldn’t stand to see kids.



We were kinda [inaudible 13:21] adults from kids.



	E:	Yes.



	W:	It’s a different image than when you look at someone putting up an adult. The effect is not that great. But you’ll see some guys’ll, no matter what, people still no matter what their attitude, they still have they heart for a child.

	E:	I see.



	W:	Heart for a child. So when they started using children, it turns a different light. Because, like you see in movies when Robert Kennedy was so pissed, people kinda turned their hoses and dogs on the children.

	E:	Yes.



	W:	See? That was a frightening experience, too, because you got fear in your heart, because you don’t know what people are gonna do or what harm will come to you.

	E:	So were you of an age where you would be thought of as a little child when you started doing that?

	W:	Well, yeah, I was being about ten. About more than that, I guess, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen—up there—and fifteen. Back in fifteen.







	E:	Again, at that period of time, such segregated neighborhoods and schools. W:	Yeah.

	E:	But you had pride of community, is that safe to say? W:	Oh, yeah.

	E:	In your school?



	W:	Oh, yeah. Man, let me tell you. And then you’re just like me. The school I went to was called A. Dixon School. It was at H and Bernard Street.

	E:	That was the old elementary school.



	W:	Yeah, that’s the elementary school. But we were gonna have an old elementary school up on Jackson and D Street, and what happened—I found out later—what happened in the history was that lots of the preachers tried to petition the school board to tear down that old [inaudible 15:03]—it was outdated—to build a new one. A Black elementary school on the west side, ‘cause this is on the west side. What they did is that the Florida Doctor Ministerial Association, they owned that land up there. So when they made a deal with the school board that that we’ll donate this land to build a school here, but the old men was smart enough to know to put in that deal, if they ever not become a public school, the land and the building reverse back to the ministerial. And right now they own the building. So I went there from first grade to the sixth.

	E:	Just of the top of my head, do you know who Dixon was named after? W:	It was A. A. Dixon. A. A. Dixon was a doctor.







	E:	Oh, okay.



	W:	Black doctor. He was a Black doctor back in the day.



	E:	Now, going through elementary school, junior high, and high school, do you remember any particular favorite teachers or subjects?

	W:	Oh, yeah, man, I tell you what. I really didn’t like going to school, but I told everybody I had a young teacher just come out of college. She was pretty, young, and then she walked down the hall, looked at me, I didn’t miss no days of school. Oh yeah. And then, we had some great teachers, like when I was in elementary school, we had some great teachers and then in junior high school, that’s when you start getting into more subject classes. And then you had great teachers, like Mrs. Mooch, Mrs. Ransom. Mrs. Ransom was my homeroom teacher. You had Mr. Bud Ivey. He was the principal. Mr. Towell. You got Mr.

Brown. And you had some great, like Mrs. Stilts, Mrs. Mackintosh, and one lady just passed away. She was the gym teacher. McCreerie. [inaudible 17:05]. She got her name ‘cause her husband used to coast down there at the Catholic school. But we had some great teachers over there.

	E:	How about subjects?



W:  Well, you know me. I always loved civics and history. I know it’s always been my favorite. I think they’re going back to teach civics in school now, but back in them days, you’d got to take civics and history. And then I used to enjoy the library too.

E:   Did they have a decent library?







	W:	It was decent. The main library for Blacks was down—let me see—Alice William Library. That’s on E and Gonzalez Street. The building is still there, but it’s not no library no more.

	E:	Did you take part in any school sports?



	W:	No, I didn’t take part in no sports when I was in school, besides the regular what we did in PE.

	E:	Yeah.



	W:	Yeah, that’s what I said. Not no organized football or basketball team. Nothing like that.

	E:	Or music?



	W:	No, unh-uh.



	E:	You were working. I know you were delivering papers, but did you have other jobs?

	W:	Oh, yeah, I used to have—just like, you know where the civics’ center is now?



Right across the street from the civic center where the interstate parted, used to be a place called Pensacola Dairy Bar.

	E:	Okay.



	W:	The front of it was shaped like a big old milk bottle. Back in the day, milk was in a bottle.

	E:	Okay.







	W:	That’s all you had. Milk was delivered in a bottle. E:	Right.

	W:	That’s what they had. And they was the first person with it, till my currier service, because back in those days you had to drive in where you come up there, you order your food, just like Sonic got now.

	E:	Yeah.



	W:	Back in the day, that’s all you had. A whole lot of those restaurants. You didn’t have all those restaurants. They always had the drive in. And then you had the girls. And then I used to went down there. And that’s the fact where I really ended up really in a relationship with Whites because mostly people down there was my age. Most of ‘em was in high school or curriers, all that kinda stuff.

	E:	What was that interaction like when you first started to see some of the White people your age?

	W:	Well, it was okay, because most of ‘em are pretty, I guess, liberal or whatever.



But we’d have a few redneck come through there, but majority, most of ‘em were pretty gelling. Just like working on any job, no matter what race, sometimes you gonna have conflict—job-related conflict.

	E:	And perhaps Pensacola was a little different, because it was both a southern town, it was also a Navy town.

	W:	Right, yeah.







	E:	I mean, I don’t know if you could tell the difference. Was maybe the interaction a little different?

	W:	Well, yeah, because, see, now that’s another advantage I had, too, where I stayed at. In the area I stayed at—it’s gone now, but that’s where they had the naval housing for Blacks. Yeah, in fact, the housing was right across the street from my aunt's house. And that wasn’t really actually the interaction with those guys from the Navy.

	E:	So, you finished high school. Was the school you went to afterwards, when you said it was the first one integrated, was that part of the junior colleges?

	W:	That’s part of Pensacola Junior College.



	E:	Okay. Do you know when those two schools merged off the top of your head?



	W:	No, like I said, probably gonna be somewhere around—in fact, I found out tonight, ‘cause they got the what-you-call-it. Dr. Wiggin used to be the principal—excuse me—the president of Washington Junior College. Tonight they have a scholarship banquet out there for him. I got a scholarship banquet I’ll be going tonight.

	E:	So were you just taking a course here and a course there, or were you fully enrolled?

	W:	No, we was enrolled in a complete business course, teaching how to be clerks and all that. In fact, I’ll never forget one teacher who was teaching down there. I’ll never forget. Her name is Nemar, and Mrs. Nemar really tried to get—back in the







day right there on [inaudible 21:18] where the news journal is now, there used to be Pensacola Trust and Savings, and she tried to get me a job as a teller. They wouldn’t have it. I could get a job returning to the guy that run around, but I couldn’t be the teller. And think about that opportunity a lot before. I don’t know where I would be if I had a chance to be around that bank and learn banking and money.

	E:	So you had some White teachers at that point? W:	Oh, yeah, uh-huh.

	E:	That was a fairly positive experience for you?



	W:	Oh, yeah, it really was. It was, let me tell you. Like Mrs. Nemar, she was wonderful. She was a beautiful smile and pretty. Always laughing. Like I said, but she would sit down and talk to us and tell us about do this and that, hopefully the opportunity will come to you that you want.

	E:	Well, I think we’re at the age and the time in history, where you may have been vulnerable to the draft?

	W:	Oh, yeah, see—



	E:	So, let’s talk a little bit about that. What happened to you?



	W:	Unfortunately, I was going to school. At the time, my wife was usually—my wife I got today—she was in there, and I got her pregnant. So I decided to drop out of school to get me a little bit more money to help take care of the baby. And then the next thing I know, old Uncle Sam come calling.







	E:	You lost your deferment?



	W:	I lost my student deferment, and he came. It wasn’t about a month. He came. E:	Do you remember about the month and date that was?

	W:	No, that was around—because I went in in April. I think I went in in April. So that probably had to be up in March or something up in there.

	E:	Of [19]67?



	W:	Yeah [19]67.



	E:	Okay. So what happened next? Did you have to go to a physical?



	W:	Yeah, yeah, yeah, sure. Before I knew it, man, I go to Montgomery. And next thing I know I was on a bus, and next thing I know I was Columbus, Georgia.

	E:	So you didn’t have time to talk to a recruiter to see if you could get in another service?

	W:	No.



	E:	Straight to the Army?



	W:	And then when they fooled me too, because they said, “Well, if you sign up for another you can get this job that.” And I signed up for it, and I ain’t never seen it. I wanted to be a [inaudible 23:47] clerk. I ain’t never seen it. I ain’t never worked there.

	E:	So I remember they had two years for the draft, but the third year you were a volunteer?







W:   Yeah. Called you a RA then. You a RA.



	E:	Yeah. Supposedly they were gonna send you— W:	Yeah, right.

	E:	—for a MOS that was— W:	Yeah, yeah.

	E:	—something you wanted. So you signed up for three but you didn’t get the job? W:	No, you know I didn’t get the job. I ain’t never even headed that way.

	E:	So, tell me, where did you wind up going to basic training? W:	Fort Benning.

	E:	Fort Benning, Georgia. W:	Hominy Church.

	E:	Okay. I think that was—go ahead.



W:  Yeah, Hominy Church. That was the thing. They had Sandhill. I don’t want to go to Sandhill. Infantry and all that kind of stuff what were. But basically, over there you had your basic training what six weeks? Eight weeks?

E:   Eight weeks.



	W:	Eight weeks. Eight weeks of basic training. It was hard. We became used to paranoid of what you doing, when you gonna do it, and all that. And I’ll never forget what night. The first night we got to training base, it was dark, and about







four hundred of us were standing out there in formation. And they called my name out. Let me say, that shocked the devil out of me, man, ‘cause it’s dark, I’m Black. And they called my name out. So told me to step forward, so I stepped forward. And then they tell you, “You go with that guy.” So they took me up to the barracks, and they put me in a room by myself, and they tied a knot knot. You know what it was? The next thing I knew, it was about four o’clock. They woke me up and tell me, “You got KP.” That first time, I ain’t know what KP was. And then what happened is, the top training sergeant was in charge of the training.

His last name was Wallace. That got me. [Laughter] ‘Cause he come in there. That first one to come in there. I was in there KP-ing. They told me what to do. He said, “Well Imma tell you. You’re last name Wallace. You gonna have to be the top damn recruit here. Lord.” Man, let me tell you. Devil. But then it turned out pretty good though. I got to be a guard, carrying the flag. So that got a little light on me. And then it was nice enough to have a room by myself until one time, I came home, and man, I took [inaudible 26:28]. I’m all down. I’m all stopping here, stopping down by Tallahassee and Panama City. I think I left five o’clock. I didn’t get to Pensacola till about two o’clock that morning. And then I was late going back.

	E:	Oh, they let you go home.



	W:	No, no, they let me go get me a weekend pass ‘cause my wife— E:	Oh, during basic training?

	W:	Uh-huh.







	E:	Oh, wow.



	W:	Well, I tell you. One reason I got that was this. See, down there on Savannah T Street, right now, by Savannah T and M Street, there used to be—well there’s still right now, you got a motel on this side, but now they building a senior citizen complex there. But my aunt used to work there at one of the buildings where they’re building the senior complex. She was working there. So in the summertime, back then, especially at night, I’d go down there and people wanted ice or stuff for their room. But they want something, I’ll go down to the restaurant to get it for ‘em. I’d get the Cokes and bring it to the room. Or sometime, I would go down there in the daytime with her, and I helped her make her bed. Helped her clean the rooms up. And that’s where I got my first pass, ‘cause I knew how to make a bed, and I made up my bed so great, they gave me a pass.

	E:	Oh, wow. So you had eight weeks of basic training. Of course, this is by now the late [19]60s. The Army’s been integrated for quite a while.

	W:	Yep, yeah.



	E:	Was this your first experience really, other than that time in school, to really have a lot of interaction—

	W:	Right.



	E:	—with other races?



	W:	Right. Yeah. And then, back then, some of ‘em, they were prejudiced as hell, some of ‘em. ‘Cause you’re dealing with people from different areas.







	E:	From all over the country.



	W:	Yeah. Then, mainly, I’m dealing with a lot of some right there, ‘cause most times, basic training in the area you’re in is kinda, and then when you go to basic training, they’ll just send you anywhere.

	E:	Right.



	W:	Basic training don’t make no different way. The juries for basic training gonna be mostly the same when you’re going to Fort Benning, because the Army’s so structured bout that.

	E:	Right.



	W:	You were in all of that. A lot of the guys. E:	Do you remember your drill instructor?

	W:	What was the name? His name was Buntz. He was a Black man. Back then, all of the drill sergeants were really about the same.

	E:	Meaning what?



	W:	I remember one time we had a White— It was a dude who he was White, but he called the drill sergeant a liar. Now by the time you been there, once you get there bout a week or two, you know you just don’t go to the drill sergeant. He’s in charge. You don’t bug him. This boy called the drill sergeant a liar, and every day after we got through with the basic, he had him dig a four foot hole, and every day he had him fill it up with water, and every day he made him crawl. Here’s the whole, right? He crawled through the whole and the drill sergeant’s sitting there,







and every time he come up, the drill sergeant ask him if the drill sergeant a liar. That went on for about seven days. After that seven days, he came up and said, “Drill Sergeant do not lie.”

	E:	Now, when you went in, of course, you had gone in, because you were a father, had a child. Were you able to keep in touch with your family?

	W:	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. E:	That was okay?

W:   That was—Yeah, they had pretty good communication.



E:   And then, after eight weeks, usually you go to a tech school or something.



W:  Yeah, they sent me to Fort Eustis, Virginia to be a transportation specialist. And all that was is to plan the [inaudible 30:36] of sail a couple of battalions to move here and there.

E:   Right.



W:  We were planning it. We had some department, they’d teach us how to plan the luggage or the gear, all that. Trains or whether it go on planes, and all that. And guess what? I never did work in that field.

E:   They put you through that tech school—



	W:	And we were going to school at eight o’clock at night to two o’clock in the morning.

E:   How many weeks was that about?







	W:	About eight weeks.



	E:	And then they shipped you to do something totally different?



	W:	Yeah, right. I went to [inaudible 31:13] and they made me a company clerk. E:	After all that training.

	W:	After all that training.



	E:	Must’ve made a heck of a company clerk?



	W:	Mmhm. But the only thing I hate about that, I said, “Boy, it had been nice to be able to have that training where I could come out and work for a bus company, a transportation company.

	E:	Yeah. Railroads or airlines or somebody. W:	Right. Right, right, right.

	E:	So you went to Fort Riley, Kansas.



	W:	I got to Fort Riley, Kansas, the big red one had left. The big red one was gay, and they just had left the battalion. Whole battalion, that post was almost empty when we got there.

	E:	So this is about what? Early [19]68 now maybe? W:	Yeah, still about [19]68, [19]67.

	E:	So they sent you there to be a company clerk.



	W:	No, when I got there, that’s what they put me to do.







	E:	How long did you do that? Was it an infantry company? What kind of company was it?

	W:	It was a single company. E:	Single company, okay.

	W:	Then, they had a guy, he was transferring out, and so they gave me a little with that. Most of the job I learned along. I stayed there—oh, let’s see—I left there about [19]67—no, that was [19]68 that I left there. Then, they sent me to Germany.

	E:	Oh, okay. Still in that MOS of company clerk now? W:	Well, I get to Germany, put me in supply.

	E:	Okay.



	W:	I went to be a supply clerk then.



	E:	I guess maybe the transportation may have helped a little bit. W:	So I went to supply clerk.

	E:	Okay.



	W:	And we was in division headquarters, so we would do lots of inventories and requisitions. When people requisitioned there, we would look at the form and make sure blasé then go see do we have that in stock. Then we might write approval on it and say it went through.

	E:	Where in Germany?







	W:	I was in a place called Föhr about one mile from Nuremberg. E:	Okay.

	W:	One mile from Nuremberg. I loved Germany. E:	I was gonna ask you about that.

	W:	Yeah, took me a little while, but I loved Germany. Well, I guess I got so used to it, because, let me tell you, when I first got to Germany, I thought everybody was rich, ‘cause everybody was driving Mercedes. Well, understand now—

	E:	Oh, yeah, [inaudible 33:42].



	W:	I’m in Pensacola, and back then, didn’t many people have Mercedes. They weren’t able to. Doctor or lawyer or something like that.

	E:	Sure.



	W:	And very few of them had it. But I found that Mercedes was just like a Chevrolet, ‘cause that’s where they made it.

	E:	And then the taxi cab drivers wouldn’t really have Mercedes.



	W:	Right. Because, like I said, it was just like a Chevrolet. ‘Cause them was here, Mercedes was made down there.

	E:	So near Nuremberg, what was that like for you when you had free time?



	W:	Oh, man, I tell you it was nice. And I tell you what, the German people were really nice. They really were. They were nice. We went down to the park—big park—and just be able to—and then the transportation system. Man, them trains







go everywhere. Got a chance, go to Austria. It’s the number one. If you got to go somewhere sometime, got a three week pass, you just hop on a train. That’s what I hate about America. America is so far behind. Over there, you can take a train to the most interesting—I love trains. And one thing about them trains on time. That was amazing with Rick Scott, when Rick Scott turned down three billion dollars down for a train down in South Florida, because he didn’t like how they were doing ‘cause of Obama was president. Obama was there. I said, “Now why he gone?” And then like me, I take trains. In fact, I just took a train from Washington D.C. to Philadelphia in November. Yeah, I went to Cape Town, South Africa, and then I came back and stayed three or four days in Washington D.C., and then I took a train down to Philadelphia, and then I stayed about three or four days and had a cousin up there and she drove us around. But one of the reasons I wanted to Philadelphia, see, I’m a member of African American Episcopal Church.

	E:	Okay.



	W:	That’s the AME. E:	Yes.

	W:	And that’s where the AME Church was born at. Richard Allen started the AME Church in Philadelphia—church called Mother Bethel AME Church. So I went to it. I love Philadelphia. I had a nice time up there. We just don’t train, man, I tell you. I love trains, but we were hiding transportation.







	E:	Well, let’s get back to Germany for a little. Were you able to bring your family over at that point?

	W:	No, let me tell you what happened on that. E:	Okay.

	W:	You wouldn’t believe this. Man, I was really disappointed. I had been over there about a year. I got settled down and everything. So I decided Imma try to bring my wife. I had been over there about a year or thirty-two months or something. Anyway, I put in a [inaudible 36:36] over there, and I think it was about a week and a half—no, about three, two weeks—after that, I get a letter to go to Vietnam.

	E:	Wow.



	W:	Yeah.



	E:	So, did you have to go directly from there to Vietnam, or did you have to leave in route?

	W:	I had leave in route. E:	Okay.

	W:	And then I had to go spend three weeks up in Fort Washington in Seattle, Washington.

	E:	Fort Louis?



	W:	Fort Louis. It’s in Washington. E:	Right.







W:

Fort Louis in Washington, yeah. We had to go there for RVN training. And then



afterwards they sent me to Vietnam.

E:

But you had trained to work in transportation, you became a company clerk—

W:

Mmhm.

E:

—you had wanted to go to the mailroom originally—

W:

Mmhm.

E:

—so you did some pre-Vietnam training at Fort Louis?

W:

Right.

E:

And as I understand it, you would go to Vietnam as an individual replacement. It



was not a unit deployment was it?

W:

No, that was individual.

E:

Okay. So where did you land in Vietnam? The big—

W:

Yeah, the big—

E:

[inaudible 37:46]

W:

No, it started with “R”.

E:

Okay. We’ll figure that one out.

W:

Yeah, it’s south of Saigon. It started with R, that base down there. That’s where



everybody went.

E:

That’s where everybody went. I know what you’re talking about, yeah.







	W:	It started with R. God, I can’t help myself.



	E:	Well, we won’t dwell on that. It’ll come back to us at some point perhaps. And so you go there, you step off the plane, you gotta report somewhere?

	W:	Right. I got to report. I go to the replacement center, and I stayed in that replacement center—I think I stayed down there—about a week or two in the replacement center. Then they sent me to the [inaudible 38:31].

	E:	Which is where geographically about?



	W:	Okay, well I tell you like this I tell lots of people don’t know. Back here was Saigon.

	E:	Right.



	W:	Back here was [inaudible 38:41]. E:	Right. Up in the North.

	W:	North. And I’m here in the middle. E:	Okay.

	W:	[inaudible 38:45] was right in the middle. E:	Okay.

	W:	[inaudible 38:48] was right in the middle. It was on the water. E:	What type of organization were you sent to?

	W:	They sent me to headquarters support command in [inaudible 38:55].







	E:	Okay.



	W:	So I was on the post with a two star general.



	E:	So you were not out in the field, at least initially. W:	Initially, no.

	E:	You were at headquarters, and you were doing administrative work?



	W:	Yeah, that’s right. And now, they send me to S two. I say S two is intelligence. E:	Intelligence?

	W:	Mmhm, yeah. So they sent me to S two to be a clerk. So I go there, be a clerk, and then just like the post I’m on, captains and lieutenants, just multitudes of them. E sevens and E eights. Officers were the E eights.

	E:	At this time, you’re what? Maybe a four or five?



	W:	I’m a four—a five. Now, I tell you, the advantage of being a company clerk was like when I was in Fort Riley, see, I came out of basic training as a E three. Yeah, I did.

	E:	Oh, okay, ‘cause you took the three—



	W:	Well, I guess, too, because I did pretty good in basic training. And then, when I was at Fort Riley, I was a company clerk, they had some E four graders come in—no time in grading, no time in service. So I’m a company clerk. I put my name down for it.

	E:	Of course.







W:

I put in myself. And then when I was in Germany, they promoted me to E five.

E:

Okay, so you’re moving right along.

W:

Yeah, I’m moving right along.

E:

Do you remember about when you arrived in Vietnam?

W:

I arrived in Vietnam, I think it was—see, I stayed in Vietnam about a year or so. That was—I came from Louisiana in January. So it was probably somewhere about maybe March or April ‘cause I stayed about a year. The only reason I

came home before my time was up, because my grandfather passed away.

E:

So again when you say that time of year, [19]69?

W:

That would be—

E:

Or no, it was still [19]68?

W:

[19]69.

E:

[19]69.

W:

Because I didn’t get discharged until January of [19]70.

E:

So normally you would’ve done, I think, a thirty-month tour?

W:

Right.

E:

And yours ended shortly because of your grandfather’s passing?

W:

Yeah.

E:

So how much short of your tour was that? Do you know?







	W:	I think I maybe had about three more months to go, I believe.



	E:	Oh, wow. And so they let you go home to your grandfather’s funeral? W:	Right.

	E:	And then you still had some time left.



W:  But you know what? They told me since I ain’t have, like I said, bout a couple of months left, they told me anytime I decided, I could go to a military post and get discharged.

	E:	Wow.



	W:	So I went to Fort Benning and got discharged.



	E:	Okay. And then you were able to come back home here? W:	Yeah, mmhm.

	E:	I guess a couple of things here. So how did you feel being able to get out early? W:	Oh, yeah.

	E:	Mixed emotions there?



	W:	No, I felt pretty good, I tell you what. Lately, Vietnam trained us—my attitude toward the military. [inaudible 42:08] hadn’t changed it, but I really had planned to stay in the military. I was in Germany around those folks and I’ve been lucky to have friends with E sevens and E eights and all of that. ‘Cause those guys, they were career guys. Vietnam turned my start. Vietnam reminded me, back in the [19]60s, I’m gonna say the president. And then, just like some of them. And I tell







you what, he didn’t like us. He Black but we had, just on the porch, we had a baby about ten Blacks on the whole post. Because we was there. Now, my job one of the things sometimes got me and just like these combat units go out. And they have to make a report. Sometimes, they’ll send us to try to verify body counts, ‘cause sometimes they would inflate the body counts and all this.

	E:	You talking about on the Vietnam— W:	I’m talking about—

	E:	—or the American? W:	No, the Vietnam.

	E:	Vietnamese.



	W:	When they’d go out on the combat missions, they’d have to make a morning report. How many got killed, the enemy got killed, how many they got killed. So especially in them meetings, they’d make you go verify some of that. Because they would inflate the—that was what happened.

	E:	Yeah, I remember. That was back when they wanted a body count.



	W:	Yeah. Back and get the body count. ‘Cause, see, back then, that Vietnam wall was the first time that television was there every day. So it got to be that this casualty and body count thing was a big thing back in the day. It was a big thing. The man—let me tell you what really over there—some of the White soldiers would be calling the old Vietnam “gooks” and all that kinda stuff. And then, on me, remind me what you used to call me when I was in the states. You know







what I mean? I tell you what. We used to have so much trouble with that, because we would just band together and keep them from doing that.

Sometimes, they’d be kicking on them and all that kinda stuff, and we would sort of protect ‘em, I guess, because we knew what that was going about, ‘cause we knew that happened to us. And then just like in O’Hara, they had the ball caster girl probably, and she’d be telling ‘em about, “Black men, that White man that’s sitting there with you in Vietnam, ain’t no Vietnamese rape your mama, hung your granddaddy, or kept you from doing this.” Said, “When you get back to the states, that White man that’s right there next to you, he ain’t want you to go to school with him, your children to go to school, he don’t want you working the same jobs, he don’t want you in your neighborhood. So why are you gonna fight me?” And the same thing you think about back up here. The same thing with Mohammed Ali when he wouldn’t go in, he said a Vietnamese never called him a nigger.

	E:	Yeah, I remember that.



	W:	And then, I look at it, and I said, we as African American veterans have gone around the world and killed people that really never did anything to us. Our enemy always been here. But the pride of the country, Americans doing the walk, Black people trying to prove themselves civil walk, the Tuskegee trying to prove themselves. The triple niggers, you ever heard of them?

	E:	Mmhm.







	W:	And guess what? They never did get a chance to parachute during the walk. All they wanted was to help put out the forest fire. So veterans is a pride in this country. Although, like I said, the enemy that will killed, they never did anything to us. But they’re just the pride of the country. It’s always been that way about the Black veterans.

	E:	So you came home early 1970. W:	Mmhm.

	E:	You were able to get out of the service— W:	Mmhm.

	E:	—and come back to Pensacola.



W:  Yeah, I come back the same old prejudice stuff running around. E:   That’s what I was gonna ask you.

W:  Running around trying to get a job. Couldn’t get a job here. Some job like me, I put in for the railroad, and I wanna be a clerk at the railroad. They still had that prejudice.

E:   Okay.



	W:	And then now, the only thing, one thing it got me too, when I come back, they started Affirmative Action while I was in the service. Some of my friends that didn’t go to the service, they got all of these good jobs, because Affirmative Action started. So these companies started hiring Blacks for what-you-call-it. I pitter-pattered around until I got a job. I got a good job. Back then, you’d be







standing out. I used to drive a truck, deliver oil, a case of oil and do something for the service station. Then drive over to a place like [inaudible 00:47:20] and back to base.

	E:	What company was that?



	W:	Back then was [inaudible 00:47:25] Oil Company. E:	Oh, okay.

	W:	Now, they’re Sharon Oil.



	E:	Right, so you drive tanker trucks?



	W:	Well, I did that. I usually drived gas trucks at night and then sometimes in the day. Because [inaudible 47:38] Oil was where they—[inaudible 47:41] station, that’s where the terminal used to be.

	E:	Yeah. I’m seeing some ribbons on your hat. W:	Mmhm.

	E:	I see a National Defense Service Medal and I believe a couple Vietnam medals.



Could you explain those?



	W:	Well, basically, they’re the three medals you gonna get because you’re in the country, like me. The only thing, I tell you what, to dramatize too, that got me in the military too, is that we had—you’ve heard of C-Day right?

	E:	C-Day?



	W:	Uh-huh.







	E:	Could you tell us about that?



	W:	C-Day is Conversion Day. Because when you in the military when the war’s on, you use military certificate. You can’t use American money.

	E:	Oh, yeah. Okay. Like script?



	W:	Right. That’s all. ‘Cause just like when we went on R and R, went into Bangkok town, there were allowed us to convert so much money to American money, ‘cause you had to use American money in Thailand. And they had what they call C-Day, and that was Conversion Day. That means all that old military script, they gonna replace with new one. And that’s a manhunt. Then you got all these V and E’s and all the folks that got all that script, but they can’t. Only the military and DOD personnel can then get private contracts to get contract with the military.

But only one can exchange. And I tell you, see, where I was, another thing where I was is that for tactical, we had the tactical division from South Korea. They was our tactical security for [inaudible 49:20] one hundred and seventy-third airborne.

	E:	Now, when you say South Korea, are you talking about the ROK? The Koreans? W:	The Koreans. South Koreans. They had it called “Tiger Division.”

	E:	Okay.



	W:	And boy, them guys. Now you talking about fighters. And they had—shoot, man, them guys. And then we had part of the one seventy-third, so we had a full tactical. We had some good security. Them boys didn’t play. Let me tell you what happened. This C-Day, this Korean captain, I guess, him and his Vietnamese







lady got into it, because I found out later what happened was he killed her too. She had given him so much money to convert. He converted but he kept it. Yeah, and they had a falling out. He shot her. Sure shot her. He killed her.

	E:	Was he caught?



	W:	No, they didn’t do nothing to him. Back then, they didn’t do nothing. And then, I guess it wouldn’t look good to try to cook marshall up ‘cause a South Korean captain or somebody like that. Now the states wasn’t going in because they were—they needed him. We needed him. You know how war is. Man, that turned me against them—the Army. I just couldn’t. I just got back, and then I thought about it, you know, “I’ll stay on here.” I tried to go back, but I said, “No, the war’s going on.” And I said, “I’ll stay and try to raise my son.” See, I got that boy, that son.

	E:	Well, let me ask you one more question about Vietnam. We’ll come back to it after you came home, okay? When you’re over there, was there any time off at all? You go on R and R?

	W:	Oh, yeah, we went to Thailand. They give you—I think it was after about six months in the country, they give you what they call R and R, rest and relaxation. And we went to Thailand, Bangkok. Man, I loved that. Oh, I loved Bangkok. Ooh, that’s a beautiful country. I tell you what, them’s some nice folks. We had food and stuff. Back then, too, they had a bar over there downtown they called Soul Sister Bar. And this E eight who was working off with me, he had spent a whole lot of time in Bangkok, in Thailand. So he wrote us a letter in Thai and told us to







take it down there—it’s called the Soul Sister Bar—everybody knew what it was—go down to the Soul Sister Bar. And man, that thing was huge. It was nice. And they was all, like I said, so—We gave ‘em that letter. So he told us that this and that, then come there and eat and drink and then you got, quite naturally, I guess, I should’ve said it, but then you got the [Whispers] [Laughter]. You know, R and R. That’s what it’s for.

	E:	Sometimes the stories stay there, right?



	W:	[Laughter] Yeah, so, anyway we had a good time over there. It was nice. People were friendly and all of the cooks. Then, I tell you what, that’s one thing I loved about the military, too, was if it weren’t for the military, I would’ve never gotten to see the world like I did. Right here in Pensacola, I don’t barely go nowhere but Alabama and all of that. But you see all of the different culture and all of the different things. Man, that was exciting to me.

	E:	So, back here, you’re back home, and you said you eventually got decent work. W:	Mmhm.

	E:	Did you ever use the G.I. Bill for anything?



	W:	I did. I went out to Pensacola Junior College and I was taking up business courses, but I never did finish all up.

	E:	Okay, or use it to buy a house or?



	W:	I used it to buy a house. Mmhm. Yeah. E:	Okay. Do you still live in the same place?







	W:	Yeah, mmhm. Still got the same wife, too. She’s been with me for fifty-two years.



That’s why I got talking to my psych the other day. Some of the things that happened between me and my wife, when I first got back, I didn’t realize what it was. Some of the things I do regret.

	E:	But you’re still together? W:	Oh, yeah, we still together. E:	You sought help, I take it?

	W:	Oh, yeah, right now, I go to a PTSD group every Wednesday. Then I go to a psychiatrist down there, too, at VA.

	E:	So no point during your tour over there, did you have to go into the field at all and do—

	W:	Well, that’s what I’m saying. That’s what— E:	That was the bad part of it?

	W:	That was bad. Yeah, that was the bad part of it. Seeing body parts and then, just like that girl got killed. Because, see, I didn’t come up in a violent environment.

	E:	Yeah.



	W:	I mean, we just didn’t have lots of violence. We might had one or two people might fight, but we was pretty quiet. The environment I stayed in was pretty quiet.







	E:	So since you came home and you did some school, you got good work, you had a house, you raised a family. Did you get involved immediately in any veterans’ organizations? I know you’re in the American Legion.

	W:	No, not immediately. I was maybe about seven, eight years before I started getting involved with some of ‘em. But I also, on my job, where I retired the International Paper Company, but I was actually in the union right then, and some other issues. I was very active about the employment of Blacks. I was active in the union. Right now, I’m the president of a sickle cell disease association for Escambia County. Yeah, uh-huh, I’m a neighborhood president. So I got a little—I’ve been civic involved, I guess, because when I come up, I seen the people around me, they were all—my grandmother and them—they were all involved in the church or something. They were doing something to help people in the community.

	E:	Then you got involved with the AME Church? W:	Oh, yeah, AME.

	E:	And that’s been pretty much lifetime?



	W:	Yeah, most of the time. No, it wasn’t lifetime, ‘cause I was baptized. E:	Oh, okay.

	W:	Yeah, when I come up, we was going to a Baptist church. I got into the AME Church really at a period in my life where I wasn’t going to church regular.

	E:	Sure.







	W:	And so my wife’s mother and her would take the children to church, and they was AME. So when I really started going back, I went to my pastor at the Baptist church and told him I’m a firm believer that a family’s got to be in one church. So that’s why I went on, since they already established the kids there, got with her.

	E:	By the same token, had you seen Pensacola change when you were originally in the army and came back?

	W:	Oh, yeah, man, Pensacola had grew. The main center of the town had changed. Only thing, I tell you what though, life has changed, but only thing it seemed like to me now, the president just doesn’t provide for us. Some of it might always been there, but it’s just like anything else. But he has escalated. I looked at a politician the other day—[inaudible 56:48] what-you-call-it. He said something like, “If you’re White like me, you blame everything on you and all this and everybody’s problems.” Now, what kind of stuff was for a politician?

	E:	This was on TV recently?



	W:	Oh, yeah. The guy running from—you’re not watching the guy running from Alabama?

	E:	I’m not from this area, so— W:	Oh, you’re not?

	E:	We’re from Gainesville.



	W:	Okay. How long you gonna be here?



	E:	Another twenty-four or thirty-six hours. Yeah.







	W:	Okay, well, watch channel five or something. Watch the advertisements that they got on. And everybody running, they got about Trump and the wall and all of this. And it just got so divided. And then we accept things, just like I was telling a friend of mine—he’s a Trump supporter. I said, “What if your grandson called you a son of a bitch?” He said, “What you mean?” I said, “Just like I said, what if called you a son of a bitch?” He said, “I’d whoop his ass.” I said, “Well, what if he telled you that the president called somebody a son of a bitch and you didn’t whoop him?” When he was talking about the NFL player, he called him a son of a bitch.

	E:	Yes. Yeah.



	W:	See? To me, that kinda language to come from a leader of a country, you just don’t do that. I guess, because I got grandchildren, great-grandchildren, and they looking at that, the president of the United States calling people sons of bitches and all this talking about folk. So what image are you giving me? Our future leaders? So anyway, other than that.

	E:	Well, I know, you got out of the service fifty years ago now, this year, I guess. W:	Yeah.

	E:	And you spent virtually all of it back here, raised your family, got a good career.



Were you involved at any point in some of the ongoing civil rights’ issues and organizations?

	W:	Yeah, some of ‘em. I’m a life member of the NAACP.







	E:	Okay.



	W:	And I attended rallies and whatnot. Myself, I’m involved in what-you-call-it, because I’ve been instrumental, been president of the neighborhood association, got us a three-million-dollar settlement bill in my community. I’m involved in developing the parks and some other projects. In fact, I go to city council meetings, and they know me. And I got, in fact, I got a call into my city councilman today. I got to talk to him about some issues. So I be trying to watch my tax dollars. That’s all.

	E:	But you got a development grant, it sounds like? Or what would you call it? W:	No.

	E:	What was it?



	W:	No, the settlement—



	E:	The incentive, it’s called?



	W:	No. It’s called the Woodland Heights Resource Settlement— E:	Oh, okay.

	W:	—because it cost the city to build it for about three point two million dollars. E:	Oh, okay. And you were involved in making that happen?

	W:	Oh, yeah, yes, sir. I was right there every step of the way until they got it built. So hopefully, maybe this year they talking about maybe naming the building after me. We’ll see.







	E:	Let me ask you about voting. I don’t care who you’re for or against, but when did you first vote? Do you know?

	W:	Oh, I voted—eighteen when I first time did it. E:	When you first could do it.

	W:	Yeah, first could. Yeah, because, see, now I tell you one of the reasons of why I tell people, because, see, I seen what the struggle was to get to vote for me. So all those people, just like I tell people here, you see those people on the walls? Those are, from the top to the bottom—we’re obligated to keep this place going, because those people sacrificed a lot. We just didn’t walk in this building.

	E:	Now, did your parents, were they able to vote in their day? W:	Yeah, yeah. Well, my mother and them laid on when they— E:	Voting Rights Act?

	W:	Mmhm.



	E:	Okay. You have seen so much in your life, and we have younger generations that have already come to adulthood and those coming up. Anything in general, have you had some advice for them?

	W:	Well, one thing, we got a thing called Sankofa. Sankofa is a bird. In the AME Church, we have a Sankofa—you know Sunday school lesson?

	E:	Yes.







	W:	We have a Sankofa. Sankofa is something about Black history, but the bird, if you look at it—it’s S-A-N-O-F-O-R-A, sankofa. And the bird headed going this way with its feet going back this way, and the idea is that you’re moving forward but you never forget. You don’t forget your history, where you came from. Just the same like those folks there. You don’t forget what they’re doing. So I advise young people to see how I got where I am, and see how where I got where I am to help me get here. So I need to help somebody else get there.

	E:	So they can continue— W:	To continue—

	E:	—what you’re generation— W:	They did, right.

	E:	The struggles. They’re aware of that history.



	W:	Right. That’s what I’m saying. Not only be aware of it, but understand that history and make sure that you vote, you try to do everything you can, because people have struggled and died for you to get what you got today.

	E:	Well, unless you have something you’d like to say—or keep going.



	W:	Well, I know, I’d just say I’m glad that ya’ll are taking the—I’m glad to be here today. I’m glad you came, and I appreciate the courtesy and everything, ya’ll came. And the thing about it, we just got to make sure, just like you’re doing now, that we don’t forget our history, we don’t forget where we come from and that we understand that we can always have a better future. But one thing about it, we







can’t be gloomy, like I think, sometimes people in the country, because of some of the divisions. But it’s still a great place to be. One thing I tell everybody: one thing make this country great is because we have so many different people come. If it weren’t for the different generations and different nationalities, this country would never be what it is today.

	E:	Well, I want to thank you again, Walter. W:	Thank you.

	E:	And I should have mentioned that we’re in the American Legion Post— W:	One Ninety-Three.

	E:	—One Ninety-Three— W:	Yeah.

	E:	—here in Pensacola, Florida.



	W:	And really, they don’t wanna give us the credit, but we are really the oldest African American American Legion Post in Florida.

	E:	Oh?



	W:	Because you understand now, what it was, was our charter—we got a charter in 1945, but it was a colored charter. They wouldn’t allow us to be permanent charter. And then, I think it was [19]60 or something, they gave us a permanent charter. And then, the American Legion numbers—like we’re one ninety-three— we was the hundred and ninety-third charter that the national gave out. So if you







see a post that says three forty, they was the three hundred and fortieth charter post.

	E:	Okay, so they’re younger than your post? W:	No, they’re older.

	E:	Oh, they’re older?



	W:	Yeah, yeah, they’re younger than my post, right. E:	Oh, okay, okay.

	W:	Yeah, right. So if it wasn’t for segregation, we would probably be really post forty or something like that.

	E:	Sure.



	W:	Yeah.



	E:	Well, again, Walter, thank you very much.



	W:	Thank you, Ray, I really enjoyed it. I really did. E:	Bye.

	W:	Bye.



[End of Interview]



Transcribed by: Emma Donnelly, April 12, 2021 Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, April 12, 2021 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, April 13, 2021