AAHP 072; McCluney; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 072 Warren Arthur McCluney African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on September 5, 2009 27 minutes | 17 pages



Abstract: In this interview, University of Florida alumnus Warren Arthur McCluney details his family’s rich history, the importance of family in his life, and as his experience leaving it all behind to come to university. McCluney grew up in a rural neighborhood and he describes his early years in school when integration first came into effect and the Black experience during that time. Furthermore, he explains the transition and shock that comes with moving from a small town to being a first-generation college student.

McCluney explains the trials and tribulations he faced while coming to UF as well as the positive experiences he gained from his time there and the pride he still has for having attended the university.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 072

Interviewee: Warren McCluney Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date of Interview: September 5, 2009



	W:	Hi, this is Marna Weston with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program during Black Alumni Weekend at the Hilton and I’m interviewing Mr. Warren McCluney, graduate of the University of Florida. Thank you, Mr. McCluney, for granting me the interview.

	M:	Thank you.



	W:	It was actually pretty interesting. Mr. McCluney and I, we got eye contact and we talked and he said, “I remember you, I know your name.” So this is going to be very interesting to see where we go on this interview and get some of his perspectives. Would you please spell your full name?

	M:	Warren W-A-R-R-E-N; Arthur A-R-T-H-U-R; McCluney M-C-C-L-U-N-E-Y.



	W:	Thank you very much. What is your date of birth, please? M:	3/8/ [19]56

	W:	Alrighty. Where were you born?



	M:	I was born in Blacksburg, South Carolina.



	W:	And who is your family? Who are your mom and dad?



	M:	My mom and dad is the late Timothy and Annie Mae McCluney. W:	I’m very sorry for your loss. Do you have brothers and sisters?

	M:	Yeah. I have a brother, Howard McCluney, who was an orthodontist in Gainesville for about thirty years until he died in March of this year. He brought me here to Gainesville because he had always wanted me to go to college, because everybody they said Blacks end up working in factories, and stuff, so he had told me one morning—they had called me in the bed and Momma had a





solemn look on her face and told me, “Well, Howard wants you to go back with him. He wants you to go to college.” So I sort of felt like Kunta Kinte who was going to America because I was leaving everything I had ever know. I grew up in a rural community. I had never went far away from except for a few trips. I was just going miles and miles away. So it was the best decision I ever made, but I look back on it and just wonder what my life would have been if I wouldn’t have came to Gainesville, and eventually went to the University of Florida.

	W:	But it was your closeness with your brother that spurred that. M:	Yes.

	W:	I’m very sorry to hear that you lost him.



	M:	Yes. He was very proud that I had finished. He was a die-hard Gator. I had achieved what he had wanted me to achieve. I was a comfort.

	W:	Terrific. Back to your mom and dad for a second, where were they born?



	M:	They were born in Shelby, North Carolina. My mom was born in Blacksburg, South Carolina. In fact, the land that we lived on had been in the family since slavery. It was adjoining the town of Gaffney, South Carolina. There was a General Thomas Gaffney who released my great grandmother, Mariah Young, from slavery. Then that land, the Youngs have lived on since then. The church is called Youngs Cove Baptist Church because she donated the land for the church. So it’s rich in culture and history. So I was saying, you left everything.

You knew your own little prominence. Your own little… you’re a Young. Yes, but when you come here, you’re nobody. You’re in Gainesville, Florida and nobody knows you, for you left all your little claim to fame miles away. [Laughter]





	W:	[Laughter] You have such a deep sense of history. How about your dad and his family?

	M:	My dad and his family lived nine miles away in Shelby. They were a really religious family but they were much poorer than my mother’s people because they were sharecropping. They’ve never really owned any land. They had a really close relationship with each other.

	W:	What about your grandparents on your mom and your dad’s side. Could you talk about them a little bit?

	M:	My grandparents on my mother’s side… my grandmother lived with my mom and dad and they had a really good relationship. My dad’s parents lived alone. Their family was known for longevity of life. My dad just died in January. He was

ninety-six. He had lived independently and was very healthy. He had just got sick and went down, basically, within a month. My Daddy knew my mother long before he had even though about marrying her. He knew the family. He was ten years older than her, so he used to always say, “I knew Ms. Bessie and Grandpa John long before I laid eyes on your Mamma.” It was just like during those days, so they knew him to be a respectable person. During those days you had to ask for hand in marriage. And where you came from families meant more than now, because people wanted to know who your family was. They didn’t want to attach themselves with families who were not respectable families. But now people tend to just marry who they want to. But, then, family meant a lot. If somebody didn’t come from a good family, even though they were a good person, it was almost like you didn’t want to attach your family to this family to be intermingled. My





daddy coming from a good family that meant a lot when he asked for Momma’s hand in marriage.

	W:	Now Ms. Bessie and Grandpa John, what were their full names? M:	They was John Young and Bessie Cheryl Young.

	W:	Also, if I didn’t ask before, the names on the other side? M:	Ellick McCluney and Hannah Rich McCluney.

	W:	And they were all also from Shelby or where were they from?



	M:	They were from Shelby, which is nine miles from Blacksburg, so they lived nine miles apart. In fact, my momma went to school with Daddy’s sisters, with two of Daddy’s sisters. We got a picture of Momma’s school with two of my aunts are in grade school with her long before she had even met Daddy, which is sort of strange.

	W:	But you have these pictures. M:	Yeah, we have these pictures.

	W:	So your entire family has always had a deep sense of history it sounds like, on both sides.

	M:	Yeah, sort of. Yeah.



	W:	Terrific. Where did your earliest education take place? Where did you go to elementary school?

	M:	In Blacksburg in Academy Elementary School. Then after integration we entered into—I went to sixth grade after schools were integrated. That was a very painful experience because I was one of the smart students before school integrated and then after school integrated, you saw a lot of that in a sense being in one





group, the really smart students, and you were holding on to a C+ and B. I remember being called outside my class. Me and one of the other smart students, Patricia Parker, and it’s funny, we both have Master’s degrees. We were called outside the class and they told everybody else in the class they were going to repeat. I remember everybody looking at us real mean. We thought that we were in trouble since we were the ones called out of the room, but they told everyone else in the class that they were going to repeat, except for me and Pat. We was out separated from everybody who we were in first grade with at that time, so it made our experience sort of different because everybody who we knew and loved… we were separated from them. It sort of ruined our connection with them from then on.

	W:	Now your first grade, if I’m thinking about the years, that would have been like 1960 or [19]61. That’s when the sit-ins were just beginning a lot of integration. You mentioned there were some painful incidents. Do you recall any of the sit-ins and things like that when you were in early school?

M:  I don’t recall many sit-ins but I remember we first went to the White school for the first year. The Principal, Mr. McCalby, called us in and told us we were not going to get any special treatment that, if we were expecting that, then we were wrong. We were going to be treated as any other student; no better, no worse.

W:   You were a sixth grader, twelve years old.



	M:	Yes. Some people talking about…we realize a lot of you don’t want to be here, but realize there are a lot of people that don’t want you here as well. Then I remember about five days later, there was this guy Malachi, who was like one of





these guys who was the biggest fighter, who could fight really good, who we felt wasn’t going to let us just get beat up half the time. We were playing baseball. Him and Malachi, this dude I’ll never forget, Dotty Martin got in a fight. And then when I was staying in for staying late for talking I used to love to talk, which I do now. [Laughter]

	W:	[Laughter]



	M:	So I was coming down the hill and I saw this dude Tommy Jennings run up, “Warren, Warren, go get the teacher! This guy is killing Malachi!” By the time I go running to a teacher, screaming for help and, then, when they come, they were bringing Malachi up the hill. He wasn’t able to walk or nothing. It’s all that stress. And you wondered if this is the way it’s going to be every day. You know, it was just like a rude awakening.

	W:	He was the strongest guy?



	M:	Uh—huh. He was the strongest in our school. So Malachi fell like that. They had some guys there who had stayed back for years. They were much older, because I think he was about fifteen or sixteen at the time and we were twelve. He just beat our Joe Louis down. What have we got to do now?

	W:	What about middle school? You leave elementary and where did you go to middle school?

	M:	We went to high school. Blacksburg High School was from the seventh to the twelfth. Some of them country schools, you don’t have middle schools much. You have a school seventh through the twelfth. So I went from the same school from





the seventh to the twelfth. I only had that one elementary from the sixth grade, then we went to Blacksburg High. It was a little better.

	W:	What took place in your high school that lead you to the University of Florida?



Was it always an expectation in your family that you would go to college or what happened?

	M:	No, I had no expectation of going to college. No one in my family had ever been to college. One of my neighbors had went to college who was two years older than me, but she lived a real sheltered life and she went to college for two months, and came back pregnant. I had never met a person who had been to college. I remember just being fascinated. I went to Santa Fe Community College first. Then when I got to UF I remember sitting in class and this guy had said he had been to England. That just blew me away that somebody had been to England. I remember getting on the phone and said, “Momma, there’s a guy in my class that’s been to England.” I told about twenty people that. I just remember. Now—

	W:	It’s funny now thinking about that. M:	It’s funny now. I remember…

	M:	We could go to England tonight if you wanted to. [Laughter]



	M:	We could go to England tonight! There was a guy who said he did not believe in God and coming from a little town in South Carolina, I said, “Momma, there was this guy in class today. You’ll never believe what he said. He said he did not believe in God.” My mother, even though there was thousands of students at the University of Florida, thought, “Baby, you stay away from him.”





	W:	Lord have mercy, that’s the devil! [Laughter] M:	[Laughter] Yeah!

	W:	I can imagine my grandmother saying something like that.



	M:	Yeah, and I called my Mamma. I said, “Momma, did you tell Aunt Modi about the boy who didn’t believe in God?” I said, “What did she say?” because my Aunt Modi… she wasn’t no preacher but she would just would comment. “She said for you to stay away from him.” [Laughter]

	W:	[Laughter]



	M:	Now I sit back and somebody had different beliefs and they’re atheist, I could still not even… that don’t mean anything….

	W:	Six of one, half dozen of another.



	M:	Just how amazing that was to me. I feel even when I was in my Masters of Social Work class, they asked who believed in prayer and who didn’t. Even though I’m not a religious man. I don’t go to church that often, but still it’s…. I would never put my back… I would never say I don’t believe in God. I would never say I don’t believe in prayer. I was surprised that some people just did not believe in prayer.

	W:	That that even existed.



	M:	Prayer changes things. I still find myself really shocked. Even though I went to UF I still find myself the little boy from Blacksburg, South Carolina who went to UF, even though I think I was enlightened and I really grew a lot. But I didn’t change. I think that I didn’t feel the need to change, because I was confident who I was. I thought a lot of students tried to assimilate more and be somebody different to try to fit in, but I just was comfortable who I was. That was a big help.





	W:	What was your UF experience like?



	M:	I think my UF experience has helped me because I was a minority. I went into classes; if there were three Blacks that was a crowd. So now, in the work force, I’m not intimidated. I go to seminars. I go to meetings. I can be the only Black person at a conference and I don’t feel intimidated at all. I thank God for UF. I feel very comfortable being the only minority in this room. It doesn’t keep me from raising my hand or sharing a different opinion. Whereas, if I went somewhere else—I didn’t. I felt that University of Florida was racist during my years. I don’t think maybe they were more racist than the times, but I felt it was racist, but I was still proud to be a part of UF. I still felt UF was sort of racist at the time. Once you got there, you just heard about stuff. I remember being a part of the fight for the Hawkins Center to be named for Virgil Hawkins, and I remember joining with the Black Student Union not to name the Stephen O’Connell, the O’Connell Center, after him because the way he had treated Black students during the integration. Now, even though you’re a proud Gator, I’m not like the students who come in now that haven’t heard fresh how it was. I think now that is so far removed from them. I don’t know if that’s a good thing or a bad thing, sometimes.

	W:	If you were to talk to a Freshman Black student at the University of Florida this semester, would those experiences and talking about how you’re very proud to be a Gator, but these things happen. How would you relate that experience to them or give them something—the essence of how to expect what’s going on,





since it’s so different for them now? They’re standing on your shoulders in a way. So what would you say to them?

	M:	I don’t know. I think with the students, it’s so different now. I think I can’t relate to them at all. I’m part of the relic now. I used to, in the past and Alfred Murphy sitting on the campus. I’d look at him and say, “I can’t never believe he walked through the University of Florida.” I said a few more years, I’ll join Alfred Murphy on the beyond. I’ll be one of these people—people will never believe that people walked through the University of Florida when the [19]80s started off in the [19]70s. I just think the times are so different. They’re growing up with totally different experiences and stuff, and I don’t think they really want to hear it, because they cannot relate. I think they would just say, “Well you old-school.” Sometimes I think the history doesn’t meet, because I get mad when I’m a Gator fan and people want to talk about the University of Florida is racist. I said, “The University of Florida wasn’t no more racist than anybody else during the times.” Then I end up defended that. I’ll defend it when somebody says something about UF.

	W:	You can say something bad, but somebody on the outside, they haven’t earned that right.

	M:	You didn’t earn that right. I graduated from the University of Florida. You just want to sit back, and I experienced it different from just sitting back, but they just want to see it from a superficial. So I protect it from UF in a way. Sometimes I’m torn with that. Sometimes being even able to talk about the money. Even though I love you UF, I wouldn’t donate my money here. But there’s a part of me saying,





“Well, I think Bethune-Cookman could use my money more than UF.” You stand by the football games and you see all these people donating millions of dollars to the university. Few Black people coming out there during half time donating millions of dollars to Bethune-Cookman. So if I’m really concerned about Black students graduating, will my money be better spent donating to UF Foundation or donating to found a Bethune-Cookman all-Black college? Therefore, I’m torn. I was telling Tanya that I don’t think that my allegiance from UF is not strong, but I think UF has so many advantages. I think that I care about Black kids being educated first before being educated at UF.

	W:	If you could sit down and talk to the people that make the decisions about the curriculum and collect the money, how would you direct them in order to address your concerns on how to help today’s students?

	M:	The old-school concern is that you going to have Black students at UF that you’re not going to—you might have people that are Black in skin, but no longer Black in principle. You’re not going to have people who are going to worry about Black people in the community. They are going to be African American. They’re going to be elitist and it’s going to help us to have the Black elite come here, and then follow the same path as regular, majority culture students who come through UF. When I came to UF I could identify very strongly with the people in the regular community. We socialized with them. They partied with us. They took us home on Sunday and fed us. They took us to the church. They basically adopted the students. But now the students are not even involved in the community. They don’t even recognize the Black folk in the community who want to be a part of





this university even if it’s vicariously through others. There’s that opportunity. Talking to students have changed because basically everybody during my time, if you didn’t have no community ties, nobody, friends from the community who you met during the jams at the Reitz Union who took you home on the weekends, who you had friends who came and got you and the food didn’t come back from the outside, you would have starved to death. [Laughter] But, now, it seems like I’d be fed if they would have took me [inaudible 18:39] off of bottles. During the time I would have been at UF, I could have packed my bags. Be [inaudible 18:46] at those bottles saved me on many a day, because people called in the morning and got some bottles for you. [Laughter] And I’d be glad to go get them. You see what I’m saying? But the students couldn’t imagine that now.

	W:	Well yeah, they walk out on campus and they don’t even speak to you if you say something.

	M:	You don’t speak. And if you speak to them… So I was sort of disappointed in that because you think of the way—I just think that even in the fraternities is going to lose their flair when you just keep having Black students coming in based on GPA. We need some students from the ‘hood who can make it at UF, and I don’t think that GPA should be the only criteria for letting African-American students here. I think they should be here on conditional status. A lot of people are not test takers. A lot of people do not—if they grow up in a house, they’re smart, because the dead don’t have the time for total quiet or the selfishness that it causes, you know, just like this time out. If I’d have grew up with time out, everybody had to leave the house. Everybody needing to stay in the house for time out; that would





make me feel good. I would get in trouble every day for me to have a room by myself. So I just think that the times have changed so much that I don’t think the students are guilty of being selfish or anything like that. I just think they are just the product of a different time. I’m just scared that.

	W:	Do you think that leadership on campus has changed? I mean, the activism is different, the level of involvement is different?

	M:	Yeah, because I think… you know, I was involved in the Black Student Union. I was doing the C-Party through the education and equality. I remember people calling us niggers and freaks because we were with the hippies. Just like when Doug Tuthill was elected Student Body President. That was just like a big thing. That was almost like Barack Obama during that time for Doug Tuthill to get elected, because he had represented us. Then after then, came you and the Eugene Pettis’, you know, all the people out. But if it wouldn’t have been the Doug Tuthill’s and the C-Parties, I just think it wouldn’t have been a thing. Even now it doesn’t matter. But everything does matter.

	W:	Wow. I hadn’t thought about it in that way, but I know that Pam Bingham was instrumental in me taking the focus that I took and even running for office.

	M:	I even remember UF, working with gays. I remember in the Reitz Union said, “You fags have no rights.” When they wanted to get an office in the Reitz Union to make. “You fags have no right to cross the Alligator”. I was just like—it was just raw back then. There is no way you could get away with that now. And the opinions in the Alligator, you just read stuff and you just, “Oh God, how?” You just get away with just saying so many—but yet, we persevered. We may not





have graduated with flying colors, but I think to graduate is what meant so much. It wasn’t for me, it was my mom. I remember a couple of times I cashed a whole check when I got to Gainesville. She worked in a factory. That meant more to me for graduating for more for than my personal gain. I think the students then were doing it because they had the pressure of being the first in their family to ever go to school, and their church and people in the community—everybody knowing that they are off in school and so many people—rooting for them. You had a hard time. You were only not failing yourself, you were failing people in your community and you was definitely going to come back a failure. You asked if it was better to have tried and lost than never to have tried at all. You just struggle and get through. Then after you get through, then you wonder what you’re going to do now. You just so glad you graduated, but you didn’t look at it as a diploma to look for a job, you just like, “I made it. I graduated.” I did what the tribal people wanted me to do so then now you start worrying about the other stuff. I think that’s the reason a lot of people who graduated struggle so much to find a job after they graduate because that wasn’t the goal. A lot of times you chose your major by what you think you could pass, not for what your interested was or what you thought you—you never looked at it for what you going to get a job in, a lot of times.

	W:	What’s your definition of leadership?



	M:	I think leadership is basically being able to lead people for a cause that is best for the majority and not basically just for your self-interest, and basically leading





people for the right reasons at the right time. I think the right reason is what has left leadership.

	W:	As an undergraduate, did you ever imagine a weekend like this one where the University of Florida would celebrate the achievements of Black students and have a Black alumni weekend and dedicate the first football game to Black students?

	M:	No, I didn’t. And I’m really surprised. I’m just as surprised that UF’s doing it and I’m surprised the Black students participated. I can see as well as Black…the University reaching out and we’re not responding. I’m just glad at both ends. I’m really glad it’s a nice affair. Like when Tanya told me it was at the Hilton, I said, “Ooh, I thought we’d be at the Reitz Union.” [Laughter] There’s nothing there. I’m purely going to use this time during game weekend.

	W:	That’s true.



	M:	I thought they might throw us something in the obscure. So I was just impressed. Then I went to the twenty-fifth class reunion this year. It was really nice. I joined the Alumni Association. I said, “I’m going to build me a party.” Sometimes you’d be ashamed—not ashamed, but to be proud of UF because there’s a lot of people who haven’t even graduated, and who are still in your circle. So I said I’m going to get involved in the Alumni Association. I’m a proud Gator among the group, but I just don’t, like, flounder above those who haven’t went anywhere.

	W:	So UF is exercising leadership by having this weekend? M:	I think so.





W:  Well, I cannot thank you enough for this interview. This has been so illuminating. And I want to thank you on behalf of the Alumni Association and on behalf of the Sam Proctor Oral History Program.

M:  But I do want to say that I am going to give to you all. W:  Wow! Okay!

	M:	But I’m going to give also and I might share some of my funds also with some other institutions.

	W:	Well, to conclude the interview, I just complete thanking you and just say, at this point, anything you’d like to add about the interview or about the process or any other message you’d like to leave would be appropriate. At the end of your comments, that will conclude our interview and just to thank you again for this time.

	M:	Well, regardless of all my experiences, the University of Florida has shaped my life in such a positive way, and I’m a proud Gator, and I’m proud to say that I am a part of the Gator Nation in every aspect of UF. I’m going to be buried in an Orange and Blue casket and I’m going to have a gator on my tombstone. [Laughter] It’s a lifelong association.

	W:	That’s real! [Laughter] [End of Interview]





	Audit-Edited by:	Jennifer Romero, August 21, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019