AAHP 333; Smith; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 333 Clara Smith

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Raina Shipman on May 17, 2014 22 minutes | 13 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 333

Interviewee: Clara Smith Interviewer: Raina Shipman Date: May 17, 2014



	RS:	And what’s your first and last name? S:	Clara Smith.

	RS:	Have you ever been married? S:	Yes I’m married.

	RS:	Oh okay what’s your maiden name? S:	Pittman.

	RS:	Oh okay. And where were you born? Were you born in Melbourne? S:	I was born and raised right here in Melbourne.

	RS:	When were you born? S:	1942. February 2, 1942.

	RS:	And when did you join Macedonia? S:	August, 1950.

	RS:	And what brought you to Macedonia? Have you been going here since you were young?

	S:	I’ve always, yes, from the time I was born. RS:	Did your family come here?

	S:	Yes, my family attended this church. They were members of this church. My grandmother and aunts were deaconesses, and my uncle was a deacon as well as treasurer of the church at one time.

	RS:	And were you baptized here? S:	Yes.

	RS:	When were you baptized?







S:

Probably August 1950.

RS:

Who was the pastor during that time?

S:

Reverend James Mass.

RS:

How many years exactly have you said you been attending Macedonia?

S:

I’ve been attending my whole life, but I’ve been a member for sixty-four years.

RS:

And did you ever go to any other churches? Have you been a member of any



other church?

S:

No. I’ve always been a member of Macedonia.

RS:

And do you still have family members right now who are currently in Macedonia?

S:

Yes, yes.

RS:

What are their names?

S:

Darlene Smith, Cheryl Trent, Charlotte Bird, and then when my other children



that are out of town come home they always visit Macedonia.

RS:

Oh how many children do you have?

S:

Eight.

RS:

And how old are they?

S:

The oldest one is sixty-three.

RS:

They all grew up at Macedonia?

S:

Yes. And the youngest will be fifty in a couple weeks.

RS:

Do you have any specific memories at Macedonia that you could talk about?

S:

Well I grew up here, attended Sunday school, BYPU, participated in Christmas



and Easter programs.

RS:

What exactly is BYPU?





	S:	Baptist Youth, [Laughter] it’s been so long. RS:	And what did they do at BYPU?

	S:	It’s kinda like a Sunday school. It just teaches you about Baptist traditions and laws.

	RS:	You’re at your church and were in the Sunday school as well? S:	Yes.

RS:  And why is Macedonia important to you?



S:  It’s just important because I’ve always been a member, and I’ve always loved the church, the people always liked to see it progress so I helped a lot in the building of this church.

RS:  What has the church done in the community since you’ve been here? In the community, what has the church done for the community since you’ve been here?

S:   The church is always helping people in the community by giving them whatever.



They help them with their electric gas, their meals, and they provide food and clothing for those that are in need, and they provided housing.

	RS:	I heard that some of the houses around here, they own the houses. S:	Right, yes in partnership with Habitat of Humanity.

	RS:	Okay. And who exactly stays in the houses around. I think I heard someone say that it’s single moms or, you know.

	S:	Well, I really don’t know a lot about the people that rent in the houses. They go through a special program.





	RS:	Have you been active in some of the community things that they have done in Macedonia?

	S:	Yes with the mission department. Yes giving out food baskets, things of that sort for Thanksgiving.

	RS:	Okay, have you been involved in any other community things in Melbourne other than with Macedonia?

	S:	Other than the church? Oh definitely yes! Yes from the time I returned from college up until now I have been very much involved in NAACP. I’ve been president of that organization and I’m still, well that was back in the late [19]90s and at the present I’ve just had to move up as first Vice President again so I’ve always been involved in the NAACP. I’m very much concerned in civil/ equal rights, and of course I’m involved with the sorority, Delta Sigma Theta sorority. Of course we do educational, social things, political things in the community. So voter registration drives, trying to get people to sign up to vote and take them out to vote. Some of the things that we do as well as other educational programs for the youth as well as the community.

	RS:	And your husband, he goes to the church as well? S:	Yes.

	RS:	Is he involved in any of the organizations at church or— S:	Okay he, yes.

Just recently he’s had to more or less stop being active with the usher board which he was a member of for a trillion years, and the male chorus; four and five plus years for the male chorus from the time they originated.





	RS:	Are your children involved in the church as well?



	S:	Not as much. They attend, but they don’t participate in the organizations like they should.

	RS:	And you said that your aunt and your uncle came here. Is that who introduced you to the church or was it your parents?

	S:	My mother. My ancestors, when they moved to Melbourne and they became a member of Macedonia back in the 1930s. Mid-1930s.

	RS:	Was that your parent’s parent or—



	S:	Yeah. My grandmother and my aunt’s uncles. When they left Georgia they became members of Macedonia.

	RS:	Okay, and can you elaborate more on what you’ve done in the community regarding social matters with the church?

	U1:	In the ministries that you have served on here in the church— S:	Okay.

	U1:	Assist those in need in the community.



	S:	Well, I started thinking of other things I’ve done. I guess my mind really fell on the personnel committee because I was a member there from the time it originated with Reverend John W. Teller. The time he started that program, I was with that program some twenty years perhaps until 2005. At one time I was chairperson of the personnel committee. We oversaw the hiring and evaluation of paid employees.

	RS:	At the church?



	S:	Yeah, made recommendations to their retention, their promotion.





	RS:	What went into that? What did you look at when you were going into the hiring process of people coming into the church?

	S:	Okay we interviewed them, we looked at their application. They first had to fill out an application giving the background information; their name, address and were they previously employed and where, and why they were interested in the position in which they were applying for and we went on to see how they could help to improve the functioning and conditions of the church.

	RS:	You said someone named John— S:	John W. Teller.

	RS:	Who exactly was that?



	S:	He was a pastor before Reverend Harris. He was a pastor here about thirty-three years.

	RS:	What positions—you said you were involved in the hiring process, what type of positions would be at the church for hiring?

	S:	Church secretary, custodian, treasurer, piano musicians, some other positions.



	RS:	Okay and did you get involved with the Sunday school here at any point, like other than being in Sunday school were you ever involved in it?

	S:	No, I just attended Sunday school here.



	RS:	Oh okay. Were your children baptized here as well? S:	Yes, they were all baptized here, Macedonia.

	RS:	And your husband? S:	No.

	RS:	He went to a different church?





	S:	He came from a different place, so he was baptized in his hometown, Haines City, Florida. Then when he moved here, he joined Macedonia.

	RS:	Okay so what makes Macedonia special to you?



	S:	Well I guess the people, pastor. It’s just something about Macedonia that I guess by me growing up in Macedonia I just always loved Macedonia.

[inaudible 09:50]



	RS:	Where is Macedonia going from here?



	S:	Where is it going from here? Well it’s hard to say. Continuously I feel a forefront for all the churches here in the community so I see it continuing to do even more in terms of helping low-income people get decent housing, and I feel that we’ll join more members and we’re helping more people and of course I think our reputation is out in the community. It’s been a very caring, concerned church.

	RS:	Okay thank you so much.



	S:	Okay you’re quite welcome. It was always church and school. Those were the important things and I had a good friend—

	U1:	I would like to pause it and see if Brayna and Ms. Nora wouldn’t mind us sitting down and getting their story.

[Laughter]



	RS:	I see what you’re saying.



	U1:	But I mean yes, I don’t want this to be lost. I don’t want this to be lost if this is something—

	S:	It’s not a whole lot. The only thing I wanna say is as a child it was always just the church and school, the community just always hovered around those two. And





growing up, having a good friend that was Methodist I visited her church, and she visit my church. So it was always church. Her church and my church. So I grew up in Alan Chapel as much as I did in Macedonia, because like I said we were always going to each other’s church and it was always something going on so we would just go to church; it was just church and school. And that’s what the people rally around, you know?

	RS:	Were there any big differences between her church and your church here at Macedonia?

	S:	As far as I’m concerned it wasn’t. RS:	Really?

	S:	No it wasn’t. I just thought, I’m a person that loves church so a lot of people might look at the Methodist as being more quieter, they’re not as emotional, but to me the Word has always been the most important thing, and I’ve listened to the words, they feel that some of the songs that maybe the other church sings are boring, but like I said I don’t really pay that much attention to the rhythm, I concentrate on the words because to me the words really have a special meaning. So that’s how it was when growing up when the church was here.

	RS:	When you first started coming here when you were younger was it a smaller congregation or—

	S:	Oh yes, very very small. And of course by being a little wooden church, it just seems that the spirit was always high because I guess being in a closed wooden area you know when you pat your feet you could really hear all the noise and everything, but this seems to be just a closeness, more of a unity. Everybody





knew everybody and it seems that we were working hard to get a new church, and to me that working together brought about an even more of a closeness to me. So we had a goal that we were working toward and you better believe it we were just real, real enthused about trying to raise money and that was a big, big part of our doing. We had contests to see who could raise the most money. And it was a lot of fun. It was never anything malicious or anything about it, but it was just a lot of fun. Different ones saying, I’m going to get you this time. No you wait until the next time, I’m gonna get you. You know and they’re good friends, but they were always in competition over raising the most money, who can raise the most money for the different fundraisers that we had to raise money to build this church.

	RS:	And what kind of things would they do to raise money?



	S:	Oh God, you name it they probably did it. We sold ice cream after Sunday services and bake sales and we were up early on the weekend where we knew the most of the traffic was. We’d sit around with coffee and doughnuts. We sold dinners; chicken and fish dinners. We had all kind of raffles. We had contests, queen contests. Things of that nature to raise money, so it was a lot of competition, a lot of work and a lot of fun.

	RS:	And do you still see that at Macedonia here today? S:	No, not as much.

	RS:	Not much. Because it’s a bigger congregation.



	S:	With a big congregation you just don’t get to know the people as well. There are some days when I look around but yet I don’t see most of the people they don’t—





I might talk with a friend on the telephone ask, Were you in church? Yeah I was there. Well I’m sorry, I didn’t see you. So that’s one thing that happens with a large congregation, you kinda get so. You don’t really get to know the people as well.

	RS:	And the people that were going into Macedonia when you were growing up are they still here? Are there still some people here that—

	S:	There are very few. Most of them have gone on. Yeah, so just a few left.



	U1:	Well Ms. Smith, last night we learned of one of your sisters and you may recall her name, who helped with raising the funding for the library and establishing it, do you recall that going on? With establishing the library and—

	S:	What here in this church?



	U1:	Yes ma’am, and you said selling those dinners and then explained to us she used to sell the spicy fish dinner or something to—

[inaudible 16:11]



	U1:	Yes, yes. That’s what Pastor Harris shared with us last night.



S:  Oh okay well I’m not very familiar with that. I do know the lady who was I guess the originator the library was named after, but I don’t much about the effort that went into it.

RS:  And like the dinners, did you ever go into helping prepare the dinners and things like that?

S:  When we were raising money? Oh yes! Yes, yes! Every Saturday. Well, I guess I’m thinking about the time when I was women’s state chairperson.

RS:  Oh okay.





	S:	In 1972 I had set a goal of twenty-five thousand dollars, which at that time was a lot of money we had never done that before. So we continue selling dinners every week and every week you better believe I was there helping the cook prepare the meals and deliver them and all. Of course we had contests; Miss Macedonia and stuff like that to raise money. So different groups helped perhaps do different things.

	RS:	And that would all be going on here at the church ground or would you go somewhere else to sell—

	S:	Sometimes it would be someplace else.



	RS:	Do they still have those fundraisers and things like that right now?



	S:	Oh no, no. It’s just more of a tithing church now so they don’t do all that fundraising.

	RS:	And when did you notice the change from that to that?



	S:	Well it’s in the leadership. You know certain people believe in certain things the others don’t so, you know, and it’s worked out.

	RS:	Thanks again for talking [Break in recording]

	S:	Haven’t been able to get that established here. We have a good [inaudible 18:11] program. Yeah that’s a youth talent program just like you have the sports Olympics, but it’s academic Olympics. The children are competing in twenty-five, well really twenty-six categories now, the arts, different parts of the arts you know drawing, sculptures, camera arts, drama, oratorical, and singing. Just different aspects of different things entrepreneurship, science, with science projects and





things as well as math and a lot of, like I said it’s twenty-six different areas in which they can compete in and go on to nationals. Prizes and things really, really big.

	U1:	What’s the ages that they start this Axel Program? S:	It starts ninth grade to twelfth.

	U1:	Yes ma’am okay.



	S:	They compete with children all over the United States and some of these children when you see it, they are better than a lot of professional people you see. It’s, and when you see them you know they have started from the time they were small and have grown and grown and grown, and they’re very very serious about, you can tell that just like athletes practice every day, you can tell that these here young people worked every day to perfect their talent whatever it is so that’s the big thing with the youth in the NAACP.

	RS:	It’s called Axel you said? S:	Mhm.

	RS:	Thank you.



	S:	Academic, cultural, technological—



	U1:	When was that started Ms. Clara? You know that’s a—



	S:	Oh God, that started back in 1968. So it’s an old program.



	U1:	And it’s still going strong though like you said because you know it’s interesting you mentioned all of these different fields outside of the STEM, you know the sciences, technology, engineering, and mathematics. You said they were in oratory. What did you say, did they do the speech?





	S:	Oh yeah drama—



	U1:	Yes, all those arts and everything, so that’s pretty interesting that they still support it, and fund it like they do.

	S:	They have final competitions every year in July. U1:	Yes and you said—

	S:	Was it Nevada this time? Los Angeles? Las Vegas? RS:	Las Vegas.

	S:	Las Vegas, it’s in Las Vegas this year. So you tried to get your [inaudible 21:00] prepared, they have to win a certain prize. You can’t just take—well if you have the money you can take anybody, but they can’t participate unless they have won the two higher prizes here.

	RS:	Really? Okay, yes so they going to the championship.



	S:	Yeah they compete with youth from all over the United States, and believe me, you see thousands of children as well as their sponsors and parents there. It’s a real outstanding program.

	RS:	It sounds like it.



	U1:	That is, let me just say all of the United States, that’s even more competitive than sports.

	S:	Yes, yes. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Sandra Romero, September 10, 2015 Audit edited by:	Holland Hall, July 12, 2017





	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 24, 2019