AAHP 344; Armour; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 344 Howard Armour African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed on February 26, 2008

10 minutes | 7 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 344

Interviewee: Howard Armour Interviewer:

Date: February 26, 2008



	U1:	Could you state your name for us? A:	My name is Howard Armour.

	U1:	And you attended?



	A:	And I attend the ACT school.



	U1:	Could you tell us a little bit—what does ACT stand for? A:	Alachua County Training School.

	U1:	And you were a student there when?



	A:	I went and started school there about [19]36. I started school in 1936, and I dropped out one year, and then I came back and finished it.

	U1:	So tell me about your time in ACT because we have a booklet, and it gives us some history about your school. It also gives us just some samples of, say for instance, this is a report card. Also it gives us some samples of graduation exercises and things like that. How long were you in ACT? How many years did you attend?

	A:	Well, I attend from [19]36 to [19]51. That’s when I graduated. Went through the whole thing, that one little school.

	U1:	Really?



	A:	Yes, ma’am.



	U1:	How many students on the average were at ACT?



	A:	Well, it is all varies. Like, first part of the school year enrolled to A.L. Mebane High School. Lot of bottom-of-the-pit students to a class. But this time I dropped it. When we got to tenth grade, my school had come way down to about thirty.





Then before we got to twelfth grade it dropped more. So they just kept dropping out. I dropped out one time, but somebody made me come back. The principal, he sought me back.

U1:  Who was the principal at the time? A:  A.L. Mebane.

	U1:	Mr. Mebane.



	A:	The school was named after him. U1:	Yes! He was the principal.

	A:	Yes, ma’am, he was the principal at that time.



	U1:	Wow. You told us about your class size, what was your school day like?



A:  My school day was great because we would look forward to getting out to meet our friends. And that little school had one building when I started. All of us were in one building. We had one school bus to bring us in.

U1:  What areas were they coming from?



A:   They’s coming from LaCrosse, Monteocha.



	U1:	So the same areas where our students come from. A:	Yes, ma’am. Yes, ma’am.

	U1:	And this school was located where? In what city? Where was ACT located?



A:  Right here in Alachua, right over on the hill over here. On the main street going downtown, where the traffic is not [Inaudible 2:50]

	U1:	Your teachers, tell us little bit about your teachers.





	A:	Well I tell you what, I had some good teachers. Well, one school, you started off with Mrs. Miller—she was from High Springs. I don’t know if you know her, or heard of her.

	U1:	Yes, one of her generations of children is teaching here. A:	Oh yeah?

	U1:	Yes.



	A:	Well, Mrs. Miller taught me in the first grade and was very nice. Ms. Wells got me in the second grade, and I just kept going up and up. Mrs. Boyce taught me in the sixth grade. When I got into seventh grade, Mr. Mebane got me. So later Ms. Wells and Mr. Mebane were in my house. And when we got to school, I was the principal’s eyes. So we had a great school. [Laughter] Gave me a lot to go forward into the world. I [Inaudible 4:08] on something.

	U1:	No, sir, we want you to just be as free and as honest and share your experiences with us, because that is what this documentary is about.

	A:	Well it was great. The main thing is, getting the morning and then you go to your classes. Next thing was going to recess; where you change classes. You change classes, and you get the chance to meet your friends you haven’t seen because when you walk in you haven’t seen them all weekend. Because I was born in the bottom of the hill, quite literally. That’s where I was from.

	U1:	Here in Alachua?



	A:	That’s right. Right here in Alachua. Yes, ma’am.



	U1:	So, what did you do once you finished high school? Once you finished ACT?





	A:	Once I finished ACT I did what I was taught: go out there and reach for it. And I didn’t have no way to reach for it but to join the Army. So I went into the Army, while my classmates were going to college and all around the student clubs and heavy waters in Florida A&M. But I couldn’t go. I had nothing. So I joined the army, which they were going to draft me anyway. So right after I got outta high school I picked the one mistake to the army. And I went from the Army and after I finished my basic in the Army, I went to [Inaudible 5:27].

	U1:	Really?



	A:	Yes, ma’am. I didn’t want to just reach out there and grab something. In other words, the minute I get the gotten on I started getting paid. That’s what I wanted to do. And I just stayed there for twenty years.

	U1:	So your connection with Mebane, having Mr. Mebane there with you at ACT as a teacher and also as a principal at the school.

	A:	A.L. Mebane. He was a principal. He was the principal there for thirty-seven years, I think.

	U1:	Interesting. So that is your tie into this documentary. Because what we wanted to do was to make sure that we got enough people that could come in and talk to us about the beginning, and where Mr. Mebane started, and how the school came to be as an all-Black high school, and to interview and to talk to some people that have had those experiences.

	A:	Well I don’t go back as far as when the school was established. But this school was established—you want to know when it was established?

	U1:	Yes, sir.





	A:	It was established in 1922, September 23rd. That’s when this school was established. And, see, I was born in [19]29, but I remember this, in my school year when it was established. So this is an old school. And by the way I got an auntie born in 1920, so she went to this school. She’s passed away now, but she went to this school. She went up to eight grade at the same school. That was a small school. [Inaudible 7:21] It took me a while to—I tell you what: everywhere I went I carried that, from room to room, which was my diploma. Throughout the Army, I went to all kind of countries, towns, cities, continents; gone with a plan. I got to see a thing that this school taught me, like the [Inaudible 07:47] I seen ‘em. I’ve been over the golden gate, but I only read about it when I was in school.

	U1:	So you got a chance to get those.



	A:	Yes ma’am, I could talk all day only because I went. I ain’t going to do that now [Laughter]. I could talk only because, the things they taught me in this school, which the teacher might’ve thought I didn’t get. But when I got out and saw the things out there I said, “Uh-huh.” It just come to me. I got it but I didn’t put it out at the school I was in. So I kept going. Everywhere I went the guy would say, “Where you from sergeant? What school are you from?” I didn’t bite my tongue. I said, “I am from a little town outside of Gainesville they call Alachua. And a little school they call ACT, which I love so much.” And I kept it them with me all my twenty-something years in the service, my fifteen years cooking in Arizona, I kept it with me.

	U1:	Tell me a little bit about Mr. Mebane. What do you remember about Mr. Mebane? A:	He was good and very strict. You wanna know something about Mebane?





	U1:	About Mebane, yes.



	A:	He whooped me one time. U1:	Ooh!

	A:	[Laughter]. I was bad U1:	But education was—

	A:	It was great. I was everybody’s favorite. U1:	He stressed—

	A:	You kidding me? [Laughter] We had to calm ourselves. Then you had to go follow him out to the back. So instead of me going out there, like any other boys, I was talking to a girl on the chapel and that was a no, no.

	U1:	So Mr. Mebane, was strict.



	A:	He was very strict on us boys. He was more strict on us boys, I think he was with girls.

	U1:	But you knew that he knew that education was so important.



	A:	Very important. And I found that out when I got out of school. It was important. I remind all my grandkids, all my great-grandkids, it’s important. One of them got mad about something cause there mom was not home, I said, “She’s not out there teaching the teachers, she’s teaching you. And you better get it.”

	U1:	Thank you Mr. Armour. A:	Yes, ma’am.

	U1:	This has been great. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Juanita Duque, October, 4, 2017 Audit-edited by:	Jennifer Romero, May 15,2018 Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019