AAHP 337; Marshall; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 337 Rose Marshall

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Deniann Grant on May 7, 2014 59 minutes | 30 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 337

Interviewee: Rose Marshall Interviewer: Deniann Grant Date: May 7, 2014



G:   Today is May 17, 2014, and I am here with Reverend Rose Marshall. Ms.



Marshall, will you please state your first and last name, your maiden name if applicable.

M:  My name is Rosa Marshall. G:  And where were you born? M:  I was born in Georgia.

G:   How long did you live in Georgia for?



	M:	I’m told that I was three weeks old when they brought me here to Melbourne. G:	Do you know what city it was in Georgia?

M:   Yes, it was Leslie, Georgia.



G:   Very nice, okay, and when did you join Macedonia?



	M:	Again, I’m told I was brought by my grandmother to church when I was three months old and have been coming ever since.

	G:	Right, okay. So how old are you now, and what year were you born? M:	[Laughter]

	G:	I need your entire birthdate please.



	M:	Yes, I’m 77. I was born February 12, 1937. G:	Okay. Were you also baptized at Macedonia? M:	Yes I was.

	G:	Do you remember what year? M:	Let’s see, I believe it was 1948.

	G:	So you’ve been a member of Macedonia for all of 77 years.





	M:	Yes.



	G:	Wow that’s amazing. That’s really cool. How has the church changed or progressed over the last couple of years, 77 years?

	M:	[Laughter] Certainly it has gotten larger. We moved from a smaller church, which is now called, the street is called Brothers’ Avenue. At the time it was South Melbourne Avenue. Then we bought this plot of land and moved here in 1975.

	G:	Wow, okay. What has been the church’s involvement in the community?



	M:	Our church is very involved in many ways, we do a lot of evangelism. We go and visit other churches and bring sermons and our choir sings. We distribute food baskets on a daily basis, but also at Thanksgiving time, this past Thanksgiving we gave, more than two, nearly three hundred Thanksgiving baskets, with full from turkey to dressings to the complete dinner.

	G:	Uh-huh.



	M:	And we do that every year. As I said we evangelize, we go to different nursing homes and visit and give services at the nursing homes. So we do very much in this community.

	G:	Now I’m also told that you guys own a few of the properties around the church. M:	Yes we do.

	G:	And what do you do with those properties?



	M:	They’re rent. They’re rented to low income families. G:	And how long have you guys been doing that?

	M:	Gee, at least five or six years. At least five or six years, or a bit longer.





	G:	Okay, very nice. And what are your specific roles? What types of things are you active in within the church?

	M:	I’m on the ministerial staff here. I’m on the benevolence committee, which is another committee; we give food, we help people to pay their rent and their utilities, or their medications and those things. I’m also on the scholarship committee here at Macedonia, which I’ve been on for many years. I serve on the kitchen committee. I pass as aid, I sing in the choir [Laughter] Just, I’m on the mission department and just different committees/ ministries.

	G:	Okay, so it’s apparent from your involvement that you are an obvious leader.



How did you sort of develop those leadership skills throughout the years?



	M:	I actually was a very shy child. I’m still not that terribly [Laughter] I don’t think I’m that terribly outgoing, but when my husband was in the military and came into contact with so many people, different kinds of people, and as the wife of a service man then, of course we are expected to participate in many activities, and through serving at that chapel, the base chapels that we were connected with, and most of all truly being committed to God, then just it evolved over time. That I began to be confident in myself, because of my love of the Lord and my service to Him.

	G:	Wow, that’s admirable. So did I hear you say that while your husband was away in the military you sort of gathered together with other women?

	M:	Yes.



	G:	To fulfill leadership positions? Can you tell me a little bit more about that? Maybe the year, the circumstances surrounding that.





	M:	Well we were in Germany for instance, and of course my husband was away quite a bit, on details and things like that. And it was myself and the children, and so in order to get the children involved in different things I had to take that leadership role to make sure that they were happy and that they were involved in things that they enjoyed being a part of. And when we were in Japan, also I did many things. My girls wanted to, when they were young belong to the Girl Scouts, when they were six or seven, and there was no troop available when I asked for my children to join I was told, No, all of the troops are full. And so the only way that they can be in a scout troop is if another scout troop is formed. So I said, Well my girls want to be in scouts, so tell me what I need to do. And so I formed a Girl Scout troop, so my girls could be a part of that. And so that led into other things as well. Yeah, so I did have to take a leadership role in order for my children to be happy and to get ahead, and participate in the things they wanted to participate in.

	G:	So where did you form the Girl Scout troop to be exact? M:	In Germany.

	G:	In Germany.



	M:	Yes.



	G:	And do you remember what year? M:	Yes that was 1965.

	G:	1965, okay. And what was it like being away from the church? Being in Germany, yet still having obviously these close ties to the church, being with your children, being with your husband overseas. What was that like for you?





	M:	It was different because the base chapel, every military base or post has a chapel, a base chapel and that was different, but I still went to the chapel and took my children to the chapel. And we had the services at the chapel, and so I became involved in the chapel as well. I was president of Protestant Women of the chapel while we were there.

	G:	Okay, very nice. So I want to segue back into Melbourne, the city of Melbourne. Can you tell me a little bit about what it was like maybe in the [19]60s, [19]70s, and kind of compare it to what it’s like now in terms of the African American community, the church’s involvement, and some of the struggles that you all had to overcome as a community and as a church?

	M:	Well, in those days and even going back, even further than the [19]60s, of course everything was segregated. There was a Black school, and there was a White school and they moved the Black community across the tracks. Of course there was a White community, and course there were signs; Colored and White in different places, different stores. The movie theater for instance, the Whites went downstairs. The Blacks went upstairs in the balcony section, and it was not good at all. At school at that time, we received, I mean the Blacks schools, we received the old books that the White students had used. Some pages were ripped out, the backs were torn off, and they were written all over the pages and things, but we still got a very good education in spite of the fact that it was segregated and the fact that the books were torn or whatever. I believe that we received one of the best educations of anybody, when we were—

	G:	What schools did you attend?





	M:	There was only one school. G:	There was only one school?

	M:	One Black school. And from first grade to twelfth we all attended the same school. The elementary to sixth grade was downstairs and upstairs from seventh to twelfth grade.

G:  What was the name of the school? M:  Melbourne Vocational High School. G:  Is that still here today?

M:   No. No it was burned down. It was burned down.



G:   Was it a purposeful—can you tell me the circumstances regarding that?



	M:	It was over the Christmas holidays, and nobody knows who. There were several names tossed around, but it was never proven as to who actually that was said that they, someone burned it down, but we don’t know for sure.

	G:	And what year was it burned down? M:	It burned down in 1955.

	G:	1955, wow. And what was that like to—seeing this school, this place that you have kind of built yourself off of, what was it like to see it kind of go up in flames?

	M:	Well it was terrible, it was hurtful, very painful that that was the school that had been there so many years. My mother had gone to that school, you know, so. Parents had gone to that school. So to find it burned down that was a tragedy; a tragedy.

	G:	Can you tell me a little about your parents and their involvement in Melbourne, the church, as well as their names?





	M:	Uh-huh. Actually my great grandparents were part of the beginning of the church which started under a tree. And my great grandparents attended there, my grandparents, and my parents also. My mom and all of us attended Melbourne Vocational High School, so my mom was wonderful, my grandmother was wonderful, my granddad, they did a very good job raising us. And church was not an option from the time that we were very small you knew we were going to church on Sunday mornings because we started getting ready on Saturday night. So, on Saturday evenings my dad would bring his shoeshine box out and everybody brought their shoes to be polished, and whatever you were going to wear had to be ironed. And so on Sunday morning, you got up; you were ready to go to church.

	G:	And what were the names of your grandparents and your parents specifically?



M:  My grandmother’s name was Maud, my grandfather’s name was Richard. My mom’s name, my mother was named after my great-grandmother, which was Mary Elyse. And my dad’s name was Dan.

G:   Dan, and what were there last names?



M:   Bell. My mother’s last name was Bell, and my dad’s last name was Price.



	G:	Okay. So were your parents born in Melbourne, Florida, or did they move here from out of state?

	M:	They actually were born in Georgia. G:	Okay.

	M:	And moved here.





	G:	And did they ever talk about their experiences in Georgia before moving to Melbourne?

	M:	Yes, my dad said his family was sharecroppers. They worked the fields and all the land that the White man owned, and they of course were very poor, they shared. I guess the land owner got the biggest portion of the moneys and the crops and all, and they got whatever small portion they received from him.

	G:	Was your dad ever a sharecropper at any point?



	M:	No his dad was, and so when my dad was growing up they worked on the farm.



Yeah my dad, I had one sister, just the two of them.



	G:	And what was the name of your sister? M:	My dad’s sister.

	G:	Your dad’s sister? M:	Magnolia.

	G:	Magnolia Bell? Very nice. Okay so it is very apparent that you have history, tracing all the way back to the 19th century, and you’re very familiar with your genealogy. Would you say that the experiences of your parents, being that they came from a sharecropping background, a background of segregation of a time where African Americans were maybe not in the best place in American society. Would you say that those experiences impacted them so much so that they wanted to be a part of Macedonia, and a church atmosphere?

	M:	I think so, yeah. As I said, my dad had a really rough life, I’ll say, as a boy growing up. And did not have much opportunity for school because they had to work the farm then, and my mom, she came from a hard-working family as well,





so to move here was wonderful because it got away from the farm and all, and so it was good to be here, and to be a part of a family.

	G:	Uh-huh. But even so, while you guys were here you kind of created a safe haven within the church.

	M:	Uh-huh, yes.



	G:	But can you tell me a little bit more about some of the experiences outside of the church where there still was a lot of ugliness?

	M:	Yes towards the segregation, and that part of it, yes it was bad of course you— there were certain places, you couldn’t go to restaurants. You couldn’t go to a restaurant, sit down and eat. It’s basically the same, the same scenario as all of us as Black people went through during those years of segregation, there were certain places you couldn’t go. Here, thank God, there were no lynchings or that kind of thing that I know of, though there were in many places, here in Florida even, and so we lived with that, that part of the segregation, part of it. But the Black community was so close then. They, I believe it was Hilary Clinton who said, It takes a village to raise a child. Well we were doing that for many years, probably hundreds of years, and certainly in this community before she came out with that phrase, because everybody raised everybody’s child then. It was not the way it is today when people say, you can’t speak to my child. You can’t spank my child, you can’t discipline my child. It was not that way then, because anybody in the neighborhood, any adult that saw you doing something you shouldn’t of been doing felt that they had the right and could spank you, or something, then of course when you got home you got another spanking, but [Laughter] Yeah, so it





was different, but it was very close. People shared with one another in those days. I remember a neighbor of ours worked at a chicken farm. There was a chicken farm out of town [Laughter] Not out of town, but down 192 and out that way, and she worked there at the chicken farm, but she would come home in the evenings with huge bags of chicken feet, and chicken necks, and the backs and the things that they didn’t want that they didn’t sell in the stores then. She shared with the whole community, so we always had something to eat. If someone went fishing and came back, they shared the fish with everybody in the neighborhood, or if they went hunting or whatever. So people shared with one another during those days. So it was bad on one hand, as far as the segregation was concerned, but the community was always together—sharing with one another and loving and caring for one another. So that was good.

	G:	Would you say that the closeness of the community extended outside of Melbourne or Florida even into other states with Black communities as well?

	M:	I’m not aware of that happening. It may well have happened, but as a child, as I said growing up, my mind wasn’t expanding or thinking about those things. Now we have relatives in Georgia who every year sent us huge, we used to call them croker sacks for pecans, and all kinds of fruit that they raised on the farm, and home-cured hams, and all of that kinds of stuff. And we would send them fruit, we would send them oranges, and grapefruit, or tangerines, or whatever. So, family members reached out to each other across state lines that way.

	G:	Okay, so what exactly is a croker sack? Because I’ve never heard of that.





	M:	[Laughter] It’s a, it’s a, it’s a—oh my Lord, what’s the name? What do they call them? You know those sacks—

	G:	Like a mesh, a brown mesh sack? M:	Yeah. Uh-huh.

	G:	Like what they put potatoes in or something like that?



	M:	Yes. Yeah, yeah, I’ve forgotten what they called them, but that’s what we called them back then, yeah. So yeah.

	G:	Okay, and so, you spoke earlier about the closeness of the Black community, I guess I’m thinking, I’m thinking more of communities, Black communities across America and their reactions to Martin Luther King in Washington, their reactions to Emmett Till, so I’m thinking about these big events and I’m thinking of that bringing them together.

	M:	Yes. Yes, well yeah when we heard about it, let’s just say I was a youngster when that happened, but we did hear about it. It was in the newspapers, and the parents, parents were talking about it. It was a time of great tension, and fear, because as I said with segregation, you never knew what might happen then. But from state to state I believe that all of us, even from distances were drawn together emotionally and spiritually. And that was important.

	G:	Okay. You said that during the Civil Rights Movement a lot of people were afraid, which I think is important. What was your biggest fear? Or what was your family’s biggest fear? What do you remember hearing the most from the people around you when discussing the Civil Rights Movement?





	M:	It was to stay in your place. Don’t, especially if you go to town or something, make sure you behave yourself, that you’re mannerable, that you don’t do or say anything that will really cause a tension to you; just go and do what you gonna do quietly or so and, and come home. Even though there were some young men who were defiant, but nothing really happened to them. The Moores, as you’ve heard, whose home was bombed, they were, they’re active—both of them.

	G:	The NAACP leader? M:	Yes.

	G:	Henry T. Moor and his wife Harriette. M:	Yes, uh-huh.

	G:	So you heard about that? M:	Yes!

	G:	You were around; you felt the impact of that? M:	Yes.

	G:	Explain that. Can you talk a little bit about how you felt and what other people’s reactions were to that bombing–of the NAACP leader, Mr. Moore?

	M:	Oh, it’s fear. There was just, because nobody knew if it would happen to them.



And so as I say, everybody was very cautious at that time.



	G:	You said that there were a few people who were defiant. In what ways were they defiant?

	M:	Well there were some who would talk loudly, even, and there were some who went to like to the golf course for instance and said, they wanted to play golf. They had the money to play with, but of course they were never allowed to and





they were pushed out, there were some who went even to like the hotels or something, and just, we have the money, why can’t we have a room? Those kinds of things happened.

	G:	Okay, so all of these different events were going on, and yet you still had the church—

	M:	Yes.



	G:	As a place of stability. Can you describe sort of your reliance on the church in those times of struggle and great difficulty?

	M:	Coming to the church was a safe haven. Coming where there were people who’d put their arms around you and told you they cared about you, and those who taught us the word of God, but also taught us that we were worthy of having the best, just like everybody else was, even though it was not happening, we were taught to have confidence in ourselves and realize that if we worked hard God would make a way for us, and so this was a safe haven, the church, for everyone. And the churches would come together and pray together, and sing together, and that was wonderful, it made you really feel that if God is on our side, then nothing is going to harm us. And so we kept that attitude.

	G:	Can you tell me sort of a moment that stands out in your head where the churches came together and prayed, and sort of relied on each other? Was it at those tense moments, like during the Civil Rights Movement, or was there something else that kind of brought you guys together?

	M:	As long as I can remember, the churches would come together: Macedonia, Allen Chapel, Mt. Moriah, Scots chapel. Yeah, we would come together during





the march-night services, and come together other different times during the year. We would go to other different churches, they would come to us, and that was a time of rejoicing together. That was a time of, we’d eat together, sing together, it was just a very close-knit community in those days.

	G:	Did people express their fears in church, their fears for the things that were happening outside of the church?

	M:	They talked about it, and prayed about it, but I had not ever heard anybody say, I’m afraid, but when they would come and talk about those things, and we would pray about them, but no one ever said, I’m really scared, I’m really afraid. That was never voiced. Or I did not hear, I did not hear it voiced.

	G:	Okay. Can you tell me a little about what it was like to be a Black woman in this community, during the Civil Rights Movement, and onwards, or even before then?

	M:	I don’t know, I led a very protected life. I had a very strict grandmother. [Laughter] So I wasn’t out there very much. We had to be home before the sun went down, so. But when I was a teenager I was not, we were not allowed in town after dark. We’d go to the movies or something, but we would go to the matinee, and then we would be home, cause she’d have to cross the bridge to get over to the White section of town, of course. And so we, we made sure we were home or on this side of town before dark. So, and as I say, my grandmother was pretty strict; so we weren’t allowed to do or go a lot of places that maybe other young ladies, or girls were allowed to go.





	G:	And were you afraid when you were in the White side of town? How did it feel to kind of be a Black woman walking on the streets in an area where you know in most shops you’re not welcome?

	M:	Cautious, I’ll say. I’ll use that word: cautious. And it went, and you bought what you needed, what you wanted and you came home.

	G:	Were you ever approached by White men? M:	I was not, no. I was not.

	G:	Were any of your friends ever approached by White men?



	M:	Yeah [Laughter], yes. But I was not, I was not. I have brothers and [Laughter], I have brothers, and who were very protective, and so no, I didn’t have any problems. I didn’t, my sister didn’t have any problems cause my brothers, they would fight in a minute, so didn’t have those kinds of problems [Laughter]

	G:	Were there interracial couples in the [19]60s and the [19]50s? M:	No.

	G:	Never openly, but were there any maybe in secret or you knew of people who kind of? No?

	M:	No, not at all.



	G:	Not at all? Wow.



	M:	Not at all.



	G:	And was that because of fear?



	M:	Probably, yeah, probably. Never saw a young Black man or a young Black lady with a White person, their own age, or even older. So no, that never happened.





	G:	How do you think the public would have reacted had that happened right here in Melbourne?

	M:	I think there would have problems. There probably would have been a lynching or something I think, but it never happened.

	G:	So was that tension, I’m just trying to gauge how tense it was for Blacks and Whites.

	M:	Exactly. Then, then in those days they, they stayed in their environment, their neighborhoods, we stayed in ours. Now, there were many people, including my grandmother who worked as a maid, and so the people would come, usually they walked to work, but sometimes they would bring them home, I mean the people they worked for would bring them. But they wouldn’t bring them to their house, they would bring them to the corner of the street and let them out, and then they would walk home the rest of the way. So there weren’t that many White people in the Black neighborhood and Black community, and the only White, the only Black people, you didn’t walk around their communities, you went downtown, but not in the section where they lived unless you worked exclusively for one of them.

	G:	Okay, but if you ever walking in town, did they ever yell or say any discriminatory remarks?

	M:	No, no. One time that I remember being called names or something was at a drug store, I went to the drug store to get some ice cream. I don’t remember, I think maybe I was about maybe nine or ten. I had gone with my granddad and he was doing something for someone, and I walked to the drug store to get an ice





cream cone, and I remember putting my hand on the counter while I was waiting and I was told to take my blank-blankity Black hand off of that counter.

	G:	You can say exactly what they said.



	M:	No. [Laughter] So what, that happened the one time. G:	And what did you say in reaction to that?

	M:	I didn’t say anything, as I said I was about nine or ten. I snatched my hand away because it scared me, to have this grown person yelling at me to take my hand off of the counter.

	G:	And so you kind of knew as a child that the line was drawn in the sand? M:	Yes.

	G:	So you experienced that from a very early age, the types of discrimination that Blacks face, even as a little girl.

	M:	Yes most definitely.



	G:	Wow, and so there weren’t any White members at Macedonia in the [19]50s, or the [19]60s?

	M:	Or the [19]70s, or the [19]80s [Laughter]



	G:	What about now? Are there White members a part of the church now? M:	Yes. Mmhm, yes.

	G:	Okay, I want to talk to you a little bit more about your education. Did you go to college?

	M:	Uh-huh.



	G:	Okay, what college did you go to, or university? M:	I went to BCC.





	G:	Which is?



	M:	What’s it called? Eastern— G:	BCC? Is that in Florida?

	M:	Oh yes. It’s Eastern—what what university does he go to now, they changed the name.

	G:	Okay.



	M:	It used to be Brevard Community College. G:	Okay.

	M:	Uh-huh. Yeah.



	U1:	Yeah, originally it was Brevard Community College, now it’s called Eastern Florida State.

	G:	Eastern Florida State, okay. And how old were you when you attended Eastern Florid State?

	M:	Just out of high school.



	G:	Okay, and what was that like?



	M:	Actually, a few years went passed before, when they built the college, and then I went then. It was, actually it was better.

	G:	Better, and at that time were there Whites and Blacks? M:	Yes.

	G:	Going to school at the same time? M:	Yes.

	G:	Okay, when you say better what do you mean by? M:	I mean there was no overt, no overt, segregation.





	G:	Okay, all right. Did you ever face any discrimination from faculty members, or administration?

	M:	No.



	G:	Did you have any Black professors? M:	No.

	G:	Okay, and did you ride the bus or did you drive to class every day? M:	I drove.

	G:	You drove? And you weren’t afraid to drive? You felt okay to drive? M:	No.

	G:	Okay [Laughter] Is there anything else you would like to tell me about sort of your educational experience, anything that maybe impacted you? Any moments in your studies?

	M:	Yes I went to seminary. And I have an A.A. in biblical studies, and a bachelor’s in theology, but that was wonderful. I enjoyed the hassle; fabulous, fabulous teachers and I enjoyed that. Started on my masters—maybe I’ll finish, maybe I’ll go back and get my masters [Laughter] Maybe I’ll go back and get my masters. I keep thinking about it. Actually I started twice and stopped, and maybe the next time, third time will be the charm. [Laughter]

	G:	You’ll get it, you’ll get it. So I want to backtrack a little to the names of your husband as well as the names of your children. Can you tell me the names?

	M:	Yes. My husband’s name was Luis Marshall, and I have two boys and two girls. I have Crystal, she’s married, has children, she’s a Martin now—Crystal Martin.

And my other daughter is Kathy, is a Gaines, Kathy Gaines—she’s married now.





My son Mark Marshall, who’s not married [Laughter] My youngest son Jeffery is married and he has a daughter so.

	G:	Very nice. And you raised your family in the church? M:	Yes.

	G:	So they were able to kind of experience those leadership positions and the strength of the church community for themselves.

	M:	My children were all born in the military, while my husband was in the military, but as I said we had the chapel—the base chapel—that we attended and sometimes in the states we would attend a local church. So, yes my children were raised in the church and taught at home—the Bible. And so they know the Lord is their personal savior.

	G:	Very nice. So how long were you away from Macedonia while your husband was in the military?

	M:	At different times. Sometimes he would be away for a year, and then sometimes he would be way for months. Many times often—the military of course, they send you wherever they want to send you, so yeah. So often he was not at home.

	G:	Was that difficult for you?



	M:	It was. I guess in a way it was, and yet in a way it wasn’t, because I still had to be mother whether he was there or not. And so I did hopefully, everything that I needed to do to take care of them when he wasn’t there.

	G:	Did the church help you a lot when he was away?



	M:	Yes, actually the men of the church were very good about mentoring the boys, and of course the ladies, you know I could always call on them or always be a





part of that group that I could talk to, talk to about different things. And so but yeah, the men were very good about mentoring the boys when their dad wasn’t home.

	G:	Very, very nice. What are a few of your cherished memories from your time in Macedonia?

	M:	Ah! Well, one of them was going to Massey James Youth Camp. They would take us every year, the people who worked with the youth. The church would take us every year up to the camp, and we would have such fun there playing games, and doing things and studying. But also they taught us how to cook on a, like a gallon can, and they cut the bottom out of it, and they taught us how to cook bacon, and cook an egg [Laughter] on that top of that little—I put a pancake on top of that little tin can—that was fun. And I enjoyed also, they would take us after church on Sundays sometimes they take the kids out to the beach and hamburgers, and hotdogs, and watermelon, let us play, and then bring us back, and then we had BYPU, and then church in the evening. That was a lot of fun to do that and it’s just this family of Macedonia is family, and I believe we love each other and care for each other. And it’s always been that way. The church has always put a loving arm around the children and around each other. So this has always been a family to me, and so yeah.

	G:	Did you meet your husband at Macedonia? M:	I did.

	G:	Very nice.





	M:	He was in the military and a pastor, Reverend Massey, at that time we had an open door policy, and so invited all of the service men from the base, Patrick then. And there was a bus that would go and pick them up so they could come to church on Sundays, and then we had a sign up board that you could invite them home, and so we would ask, well how many people can take two of the young men home for dinner today after church or three, or how many of you wanted.

And so my grandmother signed to have a couple come to my house after church and they came to dinner at our house on Sunday afternoons, and spent the afternoon with us and then the bus met them on the corner. So they kept coming back [Laughter] And so yeah, and he would come to the school, I was still in high school when I met my husband. I was in the eleventh grade then. So we would double date, or triple, or something like that because then it wasn’t taken the way it’s taken now. You didn’t just a boy and a girl go out on a date so, but two or three couples or four couples or how many would go to the movies together and do things like that. But after graduation and school and all, we became engaged and then we got married [Laughter]

	G:	What year did you get married? M:	Got married in 1959.

	G:	Did you get married at the church? M:	Yes.

	G:	Lovely. Was it a big wedding or?



	M:	Not big, but not small, just in the middle I guess [Laughter] yeah. G:	That’s really, really lovely.





	M:	Did all of your children get married in the church as well?



	M:	Yes! Yes. They did. Kathy, my youngest daughter, was married here. My oldest daughter, Crystal, was married in New York, and my son Jeffrey was married here, and Mark, who knows someday maybe [Laughter]

	G:	Still waiting on him. M:	Yeah waiting on him.

	G:	Okay, in what ways have you been active in the general community, as a part of Macedonia?

	M:	Oh, well I evangelize. I go on Thursdays, we go to the Anchor nursing home. We go to—what’s the name of the other nursing home on Florida Avenue? We go down each first Sunday. We go to The Palms nursing home. I go with a group of other ladies. Sometimes I go alone if they don’t show up, but yeah. So go to the different nursing homes, and I remember the Democratic Women’s Club. So we do that, and there’s another group of ladies that we, from different churches, that we get together and we do programs and generalize. Also, the Mount Zion Northeast Coast Association; active in that and several other different groups.

	G:	Why do you think it’s important to get involved in the community?



	M:	I believe that I’m a part of it, and also I want what’s good for our community. And if there’s any way that I can help, then I will help. And the way to do that is to know what’s happening in the community, and the church is wonderful in knowing what’s happening because we meet together with other churches and in the community. So I love this town. I grew up here as a child, so I feel like it’s a





part of me and I’m a part of it, and I want what’s best for our community, so I involve myself.

	G:	And you believe Macedonia believes the same thing as the church? M:	Yes, most definitely.

	G:	That’s excellent. So I’m going to back track just a little. You were a mother and a wife when you went back to school to get your AA, and then your Bachelor of Science in theology?

	M:	Theology, yes.



	G:	So tell me a little bit about why you felt that was important, to go back to school and get educated.

	M:	I love learning. I always have. It’s just really a part of me; I’m a reader, I’m a writer. And so just to learn I think is so very important, and I taught that to my children because—I think my children went brainwashed—because when they were growing up, each one of them, whatever they said, my daughter Kathy wanted to be an astronaut. Baby you can be an astronaut, if you want to be an astronaut as soon as you finish college you can be an astronaut. My son when he was little always went, Superman, I want to be superman! Yes baby you can be superman when you finish high school, when you finish college, you can be Superman. Whatever they said it always ended up with, yeah baby when you go to college you going to be superman, you going to be an astronaut, whatever you want to do, and I just ingrained that into my children. There was no thinking that, I’m not going to college, as far as my children were concerned, because that was so important to me, and it was important to my husband as well. And so they did,





they all went. But for me to tell them they need to go and finish their education, and for me not to do that myself, I thought, Well wait a minute [Laughter] there’s something wrong with this. And so I went back, got my bachelor’s. I started on my master’s when eventually—I probably won’t finish, but yeah I love to learn. I love to read, I love to write, that’s always been—I love to teach—that’s always been just a part of, I guess, maybe a gift from God or something. So, well that’s just a part of me.

	G:	Was education also important to you parents?



	M:	It was, yeah. It was important to them as well. They were not able to really extend their education the way they wanted to, but I’m still very proud of them and what they accomplished in raising us to let us know that it’s important for us to get an education, and so my patents knew it was important for us to get an education I wanted to make sure it was important to my children, that they would get an education as well.

	G:	Excellent, okay so as we wrap up the interview, I wanted to ask you: Why is Macedonia so special, what is it about this church that has kept it standing for over a century?

	M:	I know it’s God who is in control, and I know that it is God who has kept us this many years, but I believe truly that it is because of the people of God, the people he has sent here, the pastors he has sent here, the leaders he has sent here, and even Reverend Harris and his vision for—the church of vision for this year, we are a family. And I felt, I feel that’s the way Macedonia has always been. We have always been a family. I felt that way even from a child. I have felt loved, and





cherished and cared for in this church. I believe that people really have my best interests at heart, and I have their best interest at heart. And I believe that is why Macedonia is still standing, is still a great church, and I believe that if we continue to follow that, we a family, then we’ll be here another twenty. [Laughter] So, that’s really the way I feel. I feel loved and cared for here, and I believe that everyone else here, I hope they do feel loved and cherished and cared for here at Macedonia.

G  Very nice. Is there anything else that you would like to say regarding Macedonia, your childhood, your parents, your experience during the Civil Rights Movement? Anything at all.

	M:	I want to say that even standing here, sitting here in this spot, and realizing, as it was said earlier, this used to be, this sight used to be the most important part of this community in this city and all around, because it was a saw mill that was on this sight back from the early 1800s into the 1920s. I believe they finally shut it down or something, and so when it was closed down they took the saws away that sawed the huge lumber and all of that. They left big, the big rods of stone that the saw sat on. And I played here as a child. We played hide-and-seek and all that around those huge blocks of stone that the saws used to stand on and work on and to have this church sit on this sight is wonderful. To think that God has allowed me to see what this has become after all of those years is, I think, is amazing. It’s just really—it’s just really amazing to see how this community has evolved and how this church has evolved and grown, and that He’s allowed me to see it, and not only see it, but be a part of it. So I’m grateful to the Lord for that.





	G:	Wow, no that’s really, really, that’s amazing. Because like you said, this church has been a sort of a pillar in the community, and it’s also brought other churches together.

	M	Yes.



	G:	And you guys kind of create one congregation within Melbourne and the surrounding cities. So in that way you guys have truly been an inspiration and a safe haven for African Americans, starting with the beginning of the 1900s all the until now into 2014. So that’s really amazing. And I just want to thank you so much for your time. It’s really, really appreciated.

	M:	Thank you.



	G:	So much great information, and I’m so happy that I was able to interview you. M:	Thank you so much for having me. I enjoyed it.

	G:	No problem. Okay, I’m going to stop recording now. Is there anything else you would like to say before I do so?

	M:	No.



	G:	Okay, thank you.





[A separated part of the interview]



	M:	Where the church started, and they were there. So our family has come down through these generations here in Macedonia.

	U1:	Something you said actually caught my attention, how a tradition that happens down south, even happening in New Jersey, how you said it takes a village to raise a kid. Cause it was funny back where I was growing up with my





grandparents, and my mom, in our community, it didn’t matter whose kid you were, everybody looked after you. You got in trouble? They beat you, you go home and you got another beating.

M:   Yeah.



	U1:	And I’m thinking to myself that was back when my grandparents, it happened back with my mom, I mean it happened with me when we were all still living in the same community, but I started thinking that was just because of where I lived, that’s just how we do it. To find out that it’s just traditional thing that we do as a culture, we literally take care of each other.

	M:	Yes, yes.



	U2:	Time?



	G:	Yeah, but it’s still recording because we’re just chatting a bit. Sometimes it’s good to get sort of the conversations after the interview as well.

	U1:	I stopped recording. I stopped.



	G:	Oh no that’s fine, but it’s still going to be on the audio. Yeah and I thought it was really interesting how you describe the tension. You know the type of tension, cause you always read about that stuff, but it’s really, it’s different when you actually hear someone describe it, and you kind of see like their body language and you understand that they’re recalling that tension, and they’re getting tense themselves. So that’s always I think just really cool to see it.

	M:	Yeah. It was not easy, but I thank God for it. He has made us a strong people. I tell people and try to get children, young people, also to understand that Black history did not begin when the slave ships came over to America, but Black





history began way back. Even say, back to the Garden of Eden, when God created us as special people. You know we’re descendants from kings and queens, and the first doctors and architects, and great people. And I think if our children today realize where they came from, and who they are, they would have a sense of pride in themselves and who they are, and what they can accomplish, but they’re not taught these things, they don’t know. If you don’t know where you came from, you don’t know where you’re going, but if they only realize who they are, who we are as a people, we are a great people, wonderful, talented, but our children don’t know because nobody teaches them, yeah.

	G:	Well the history is definitely lost, and I think now we have a lot of distractions. We have music videos, we have all types of TV shows. There’s this new term Netflix, Netflick? What is it a netflicksing, I don’t even know how to pronounce it now. But you just binge watch TV shows for hours. So we’re sort of brainwashing ourselves with information that really isn’t relevant or helpful to our life. So I agree with you in that sense, especially in the Unites States when it’s such a melting pot. You have like areas like Macedonia that create sort of like these safe havens where Black people are the leaders. So Black children can actually see Black people in positions of power, right?

	M:	Uh-huh.



	G:	Intellectuals who are the same skin color as them. Cause they may not see it with their teachers who are at their school, but they see it as this church. And I think that’s profoundly important too.

	M:	I think so too. I think so, too.











[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by	Jennifer Romero, October 22, 2015 Audit edited by:	Holland Hall, April 19, 2017

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 24, 2019