AAHP 572; Rolle; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 572 Katrina Rolle

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Wallace Mazon on July 26, 2018 36 minutes | 20 pages



Abstract: Katrina Rolle was the director of the Institute of Black Culture in the 1990s, and she talks about her role as its director in this interview. She goes over what the IBC meant to the students during her time, intersectionality between other houses, and the importance of networking.





Keywords: [African American History Program, University of Florida, Director, Institute of Black Culture, IBC, La Casita, Black Affairs, CaribSA]



Standards

1. SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 572

Interviewee: Katrina Rolle Interviewer: Wallace Mazon Date: July 26, 2018





	M:	Please state your name. R:	Katrina Rolle; R-O-L-L-E.

	M:	Okay. This is Wallace with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. So, can you tell me a little bit about your upbringing, where you’re from?

	R:	I grew up in Miami, Florida and was educated there from first grade through twelfth grade. I lived there for part of my adult life after I graduated from law school, and quite frankly, just before law school as well for three years before law school. And then once I got married, I moved away and haven’t been back other than to visit family.

	M:	Where did you got to law school? R:	University of Florida.

	M:	Okay, and how was your time there?



	R:	I had a good experience. I served as the president of the Black Law Student Association my last year. And then my second year of law school I was a chair at the reunion weekend. I was instrumental in reengaging Black alumni to come back on campus. One of the things we discovered was that a lot of our students weren’t getting jobs through the placement office and we really wanted to them to be able to network with Black alumni, which really, really paid off. It also paid off in alumni becoming engaged to the tune of donating money to the University of Florida as well.

	M:	So after law school what did you end up doing before you came back?









	R:	So, I worked for three years at a large law firm in Miami as a commercial litigator.



Then I got married and spent the first year of my marriage in New Orleans because my husband, who graduated from UF for undergrad and med school, was doing a residency in New Orleans. And it was his fifth and final year of that residency. Then, we moved to Gainesville where he did a sports medicine fellowship at University of Florida, and I took on the role as director of the Institute of Black Culture.

	M:	So, I guess my next question — well what years did you attend UF? R:	I was there for law school [19]88 through [19]91.

	M:	What was the big thing happening at UF at that time? R:	The Gainesville murders. [Laughter]

	M:	Okay, so when you were in the law student association, did you guys talk about any of the issues happening with Black students at the University of Florida? Not particularly pertaining to law students, but Black students as a whole.

	R:	No, it really wasn’t — because we were on the other end of campus we really didn’t have much to with, even the Black Graduate Student Association, we sort of were our own world. You might imagine, the time commitment of a law student is so great that to carve out time to be active in organizations at the law school is one thing, but then you have to try to try to carve out time for other things is a little bit more. At one point we tried to be able to do some socials with other areas but it just — the time didn’t permit it. That’s really the main reason, it was the time.









	M:	When you were a law student did you have any interactions at the IBC? Did you ever go to the IBC?

	R:	I went to visit. Now when I was a law student one of the ways that I put myself through law school is I served, so, I did have some interactions with the undergrads and I shouldn’t say that at the law school we didn’t…I was a hall director with the Division of Housing. My second year I was the Hall Director for North Hall, I don’t think it’s a hall anymore, I think it’s offices. It’s right across from the O’Connell center.

	M:	Yeah, North Hall is still there.



	R:	It’s still a dorm, I mean it’s still a residence hall? M:	Yes, ma’am.

	R:	Oh okay. And then my third year of law school I was the Hall director for Graham Hall. So I did have interactions, and you know in terms of with all students. But, if you’re asking me specifically about minority students, one of the things that always encouraged law students and minority students is they really take advantage of the opportunities available here. I would ask them what were they involved in, what were you doing for extracurricular activities and that kind of thing, but even with that, if I saw people in the hall, that’s the kind of conversation I had. Otherwise, I didn’t have a whole lot of interaction unless somebody had gotten in trouble or needed some counseling, and I had to refer them onto somebody else or you know, somehow the R.A.s couldn’t manage it and it came to me as the hall director.

	M:	Yes, Ma’am, okay. When you came back to Gainesville was the position for—









	R:	The IBC?



	M:	Already open?



	R:	How did that come about? M:	Yes, ma’am.

	R:	[Laughter]. When we were getting ready to come back to Gainesville, I initially started looking at potential law jobs, but I didn’t see anything that I was necessarily interested in. Then, someone told me to look at things at the University of Florida, and so I was familiar with the IBC from when I was a law student, because I had been in there and I had looked around and everything. That position was vacant but it was vacant because — and I can’t remember her first name now, but her last name is Bethune.

	M:	Evelyn Bethune.



	R:	Is it Evelyn? Okay. She had the problems at the IBC, and actually I was told, was on the run. I don’t know. I’m just what I was told. But somebody says, “Don’t do it, it’s going to be so much. You know, you shouldn’t do that.” People that I had talked to that I knew from when I was in law school, et cetera. But, I just felt like I wanted the challenge of turning that reputation for the IBC around. I thought it had a strong cultural value, and I felt like I could do it. I worked very hard that year building alliances with the Center for African Studies, the Center for Latin American Studies, College of Journalism, and obviously that we put on programs like Blacks in the Media. We had Africans in the Diaspora, and I pulled together. One of the things that I noticed that year is that the students from the African Diaspora seemed to be somewhat segregated. You had the African students,









you had club Creole, which mainly was with the Haitian students, you had CaribSA that was mainly Jamaican students, and you had BSU. So I wanted to pull together a group, and I can’t remember the acronym. I still stay in touch with some of the students that were involved with me at the IBC. I know I can remember the acronym, they came up with it. It’s called COLORS. I’m sure I have something in a file that spells out what it is. We formed COLORS, because I wanted kids, students, from all of these nationalities to come together because we all share the African diaspora together. It really worked. I mean, they helped develop programs for Blacks in the Media. There was a lot of discussion about how Blacks are portrayed to focus on Caribbean Islands and how — I had a student from Jamaica say, “You know when we came over here, we were taught you don’t really want to associate with Blacks, because they are at the lower end of the socioeconomic — you want to be above that.” So, it was some heart to heart conversations and friendships formed that I am happy to say that many of them are still friends, because I see them on Facebook and like I said I stay in touch with the leaders of that particular, well some of the leaders of that group.

And so, I just wanted to explore some of those issues and the Center for Latin American Studies brought over a drummer from Ghana we had him perform at the IBC and then have some conversations with the students. So we try to do different things, but still rooted in culture. The other thing that we tried to do was try to bring more people to the IBC, and I had a student out of the College of Journalism who helped me, well she really did it, we formed an IBC newsletter and it went to every student of color at the University of Florida. We put that out









monthly as a way to engage and keep people informed about events coming up. So, I thought it was a very, very positive year. I will tell you when I first started and the media came I said, “Listen, I don’t want to talk about what has happened in the past. I really want to just talk about what we’re doing right now and where were headed. Of course, when they did they did the news report, it started off with Evelyn Bethune then they talked to me, then they end it with, “She’s still being sought by police.” I’m like, “Are you kidding me?” So, it was a bit of an uphill battle, but we also did a program with the Hillel Foundation where we had, I’m going to stay Black students, but that’s encompassing all students that are color and Jewish students to have a dialogue. There’s an article that you might want to look up, and it’s called it’s titled “Rolle Models,” and it’s R-O-L-L-E for my husband and I. It talks about the then Rabbi/director of Hillel Foundation talks about some of the things we’ve done, we did together as well. That was in the Gainesville Sun. I think there were some things in the Alligator back during that wonderful time. That would have been [19]95, [19]96.

M:  So, I want to kind of back up a little bit. So when you first came in, all that stuff was happening in the media was, I guess, basically more worried about, more interested in what was going on with Ms. Bethune. What was the students like feeling around the IBC, and when you came in what did they want to see?

	R:	So there were some that felt, particularly because she had been I think active with the graduate student organizations, some of them felt betrayed. There were some that I did have to build trust with because they didn’t know what to expect. One of the first things I did when I walked inside and I looked — we sort of









reorganized thigs too, put more artifacts down below, because some of the things were just boxed up upstairs. Then we actually created, it was a library. I wanted it to be a circulation affiliated with the library within. A lot of those books were donated through the years by people, and when I talked to the Smathers Library we would’ve had to give up control of the books and there was some pushback from my predecessors and others like, “No these were donated; we don’t want to give up control.” So, I had some students to help organize the books, so then it was a place if you wanted to come and learn about more Black culture, we had a library upstairs. We had artifacts showcased downstairs. So, I want to say it was the Alligator or it was somebody who did something like, “Things are really changing and happening at the IBC.” There had been some people that were very much aligned, or I guess friends or whatever, with Evelyn Bethune and they were skeptical. But, I’m the type of person that I keep my eye on the big picture, and I seek to engage while keeping my eye on the big picture and brought a lot of those people around. But there were also people that wanted to; I had a lot of students that said, “Hey, whatever we can do to help you with the IBC, you let us know.” We had a lot of students that were in that category. So it was a mixture. I think there were more people that wanted to see it succeed than not. I had a lot of support, but I was also determined to build those alliances because our budget

— it was, I can’t remember, it was very, very low. It was like, “How are we expected to do programs with such a little budget?” I spent a year in the corporate sector, three years in the legal sector. Well, I’m sorry, I worked four years in the corporate sector before going to law school and the three years in









the legal sector. I knew about building alliances, and by going out to the Center for African Studies and Center for Latin American Studies, some of those other areas on campus, they have bigger budgets than us, so my goal was to piggyback on some of the things that they were doing. Like when Alvin Ailey came to town, the dance troupe came, we hosted the reception for them. So we couldn’t obviously bring them into town but we could bring — have a reception. Creative things like that is what we did. So, you had to build alliances to know what was going on so that you can say, “Can we get a day, can we get an hour?” [Laughter] It was that kind of thing and so that’s part of it. I would like to think, and I believe that based upon the feedback that I got throughout the year and particularly even when I was leaving that we did turn it around, that we did build new friendships, that we did restore the reputation of the IBC. That was my goal all along.

	M:	Yes ma’am. I know La Casita was right next to you, did you collaborate with them at all?

	R:	Oh yeah. So my counterpart, well I’m embarrassed that it’s been so many years now, yes. I don’t think we did any programs together other than when we built the Center for Latin American Studies. We kind of both promoted a program that they were doing. The Center for Latin American Studies did a very interesting program that particular year on — I don’t know if titled Blacks in the African Diaspora or just African Diaspora. And so they had a panel of an Afro, a Brazilian, someone from Cuba, an Afro-Cuban, and there was maybe two or three other people, to talk about their experience through the lens of being, and I’m going to just use it









largely, being Black in those countries, and that was a real eye opener. So we collaborated and helped promote that and we had a very good relationship. I can see her, but I just cannot remember her name at this point.

	M:	Yes, ma’am. So was it hard at all trying to build those connections?



	R:	No, you know sometimes you know you’re the right person for the right time. Having had four years corporate experience, three years legal experience, I came at that a little bit older obviously than Evelyn Bethune was when she was doing that. So, having had a business background, business/legal, relationship building was something that I was accustomed to. So it was work, it took time, but it wasn’t — I won’t say it was hard, because I really felt that everybody that I went to, I never encountered anybody who was not receptive to helping us build the IBC back. I did not encounter one person at all.

	M:	So, you know at UF there can be like certain, I don’t know, bureaucratic red tape.



I know you were talking about the budget being really low. Did you ever try to advocate for increasing budget?

	R:	Oh yeah. It was actually even included in a newspaper article. [Laughter] It didn’t change, because that budget falls under student services. So, La Casita; there budget wasn’t…it was the same. We both had low budgets, so I get it that they probably focused on more of the academic services for students than the cultural services. I even tried to reach out to an alumni that I knew had the means to help with that and submitted a grant request for him and got a little bit of pushback from the University, because they were courting him for something else. But you know, he’s been a friend of my family. Had I stayed there, I would have tried to









push for allow me to seek grants if I can’t get I through the university budget, because this is just that important. So, if you’re able to find those articles you’ll see, because it was in one of them I know that I put that we need a bigger budget.

	M:	How was it being a woman of color, a director of color at the University of Florida?

	R:	Not a problem at all. One of my first jobs out of college I was one of two Blacks in the finance division at a major company in Minneapolis, Minnesota. I was the first Black that the guy that was my direct supervisor, he hadn’t, he said he never saw, because he lived in northern Minnesota, the first time he saw a Black person in person he was like eighteen years old. So, blazing that trail, and it’s not that I encountered it all the time, but it doesn’t bother me. My parents, in particularly my mother, always raised us that even the most important people get up every morning and brush their teeth and shower and get dressed just like you. You’re not better than anybody else, nobody’s better than you, so you treat everybody fair and nice. That’s how I have approached life. That’s how my husband and I are teaching our kids to approach life. So that did not bother me— obviously if I had encountered pushback from people not wanting to work with me I would have had to develop a different strategy, but I did not. I don’t know if it’s because I came from a business/corporate/legal sector, I don’t know if that had something to do with it or not. I dressed more like business, because that’s what I had in my wardrobe. [Laughter] So I might be walking around in a skirt suit









or pantsuit or you know more dressed up things than maybe some people expected as well.

	M:	So I’m really interested in sort of how the students used the space when you were the director.

	R:	We didn’t get that many to come in, other than the students who were engaged more regularly with our programming. They would come in sometimes to just study. I didn’t see anybody really use the library like I thought they would, but they would come in and student, they would come in and hang out in between classes. They came to programs, and obviously with college students when you get you have food you get more, you have greater attendance. [Laughter] So, we did keep track of our programs. A well-attended program for us at the IBC was about forty students and we had pretty well attended programs. We even had one on AIDS. I think it was homosexuality and AIDS in the Black community, and I can’t remember. We had some controversial topics as well for even then. I had somebody from the counseling office to facilitate that particular session or any of those that were controversial. I did not try to facilitate those. I brought in, again, networking and making alliances with various faculty on campus. The Black Faculty Association, I relied on them a lot to help facilitate programs at the IBC. One of the other things that fell under the IBC was the University Gospel Choir.

At that time, my position was the advisor. I do recall that they had some budget issues and were about to lose funding and I went and made an appeal to the student senate on their behalf and assured them that I would have oversight in terms of…advisor oversight. This was just when I was coming in, I found this out;









so I was like “Oh, this can’t be.” I put on training sessions on how to be an officer. We talked about how do they manage the budget specifically and make sure that the treasurer had the right support from student government to understand what they needed to do for budgeting and reporting purposes. I did have gospel choir students to come in periodically when they found that it was somebody that cared. I’m not saying people before me did not care; I’m saying that when they saw that I care, and I wanted to see them succeed — I actually traveled with them. They had a springtober spring break. I just assumed that that’s what the advisors were supposed to do, but they said they hadn’t really had an advisor really travel with them. I was like “Well, how can that be?” So, I traveled with them for a week on their spring college tour and that was really huge for them.

So, I had people coming in and out. I can’t really say what percentage I thought it was, because I attended an HBCU for my undergraduate degree so I really probably expected greater numbers, but I’m told we had a lot more traffic than they had seen in some recent years, I can’t go all the way back, on a daily basis. I thought it was good.

	M:	Did student government ever end up giving you…



	R:	Oh yeah they gave, not me, they gave the University Gospel Choir what they needed. When they had the new elections I made sure that those people had an orientation, that they were trained. They had more accountability to me, because they had the choir director, but he was like a OPS student. So a lot of that had been falling under the choir director before I came, but this is more in line with the University in terms of, you need to come to me as your advisor so I can make









sure that we don’t get into this situation again. We worked really hard that year getting them on the right track.

	M:	That’s good. Can you tell me the events that led up to COLORS being formed? I know you touched on that a little bit.

	R:	Well it was me trying to engage with students, you know trying to get students involved. I started conversations with students and hearing stuff and I was like “What do you mean that you got Club Creole and you got Club CaibSA and then certain people, you know you got primarily just African American students in BSU

— I don’t understand this.” So, it was more of me getting students to come in initially to help me understand what was going on. Then through those conversations I said, “Can you all help me with programs that bring everybody into the fold?” Then, challenged them to come with the name. I literally had African students, African American students, and I’m going to say from the African Student Union, from BSU, from Club CaribSA, and from Club Creole and anybody else who wanted to be a part of that and I think we probably had for that core planning group, I don’t know, maybe about twelve students if my memory is serves me right. They really helped come up with some of the topics, and I have to say some of them I was like “Oh, I don’t know.” “Come on, Mrs. Rolle!” [Laughter] So, you know, a lot of the program was student directed and they helped with getting the word out. That was probably one of the best things for me to see students, who had not really come together, come together. I actually had two students who had never met before in that group, to get married. They’ve been married now for about what ten years maybe. So, it was a lot of work, and I









got work study students to come over because one of the students that was in that group who got married to one of the guys, she was my work study student and she was the one who was in charge of the newsletter. So I had people coming over and doing stuff and having ownership, quite frankly, of what we were trying to do at the IBC.

	M:	So, how was the newsletter kind of distributed?



	R:	So, it went out through the University and it was put into the student mailboxes on campus. Do they do that still?

	M:	I think it’s all email now. I don’t think—



	R:	Oh yeah, I forgot. Email was just coming in place when I was there. We were just starting to be able to communicate with universities across the country and that was a big deal. It was like oh my gosh. So, anyway, yeah.

	M:	At the time, was there any on-campus tension between Black students or did you see one color—

	R:	No.



	M:	No? Okay.



	R:	No. They were separate. They socialized separately a lot. You know you socialize with who you socialize with, but you at least when you’re on a college campus like the University of Florida you got to get to know other people, because you do have some commonalities there. So, we were able to bring people together differently. I don’t know, I mean they probably still went to their own parties, but I do know that this group would try to get together and say, “Well









let’s all go to such and such, you know, CaribSA.” And some of them also became more involved with BSU as well.

	M:	How did you use the space? Did other Black faculty try to come into the IBC to talk to students? Did you guys ever have any guest lecturers?

	R:	Oh yeah, we had lecturers. I mean in terms of programs, I don’t know if that’s archived somewhere on campus. Faculty didn’t come in to use the space other than when I had meetings with them to get them engaged with helping me with programs. Often times, quite frankly, I would go to them, but sometimes they would come to me as well; so yes. I rarely…I organized, uh, the chief organizer of programs. I sometimes made the introductions, sometimes I had the students make the introductions, but I always utilized faculty in some form with pretty much all the programs.

M:  So, when you were at the IBC, I know you had a bigger picture. What did you really see the IBC becoming? What did you see it being for Black students on campus?

	R:	I saw it as a place for all students of the African Diaspora to have a place where they could come and just be, and to really get to know the different experiences of their fellow students. I think we were started in that direction. I think we did have exactly what I was looking for with the small group COLORS, but I also saw that those students were able to bring in more of their contemporaries to programs. I had students who had never — I mean some were seniors that had never been in the IBC before their senior year and that just floored me. So we did a lot of that. Did we one hundred percent achieve my total vision? No, but I felt









like we were in the right direction. Like I said with that small group of students, yes, we did achieve it. That was my, I think one of my greatest moments because when they were first sitting around the room, you could tell it was…I had different people, different faculty members to I said, “Just can you send them here?” Some of them had never been in the IBC. They were there because somebody told them or asked them, “Why am I here?” and breaking down that barrier to just get them receptive to hearing what I had to say. That was really one of my most proudest moments.

	M:	Why did you end up leaving?



	R:	My husband got an offer. We moved to South Carolina initially and then we ultimately moved to Tallahassee where we’ve been for the last twenty-one years.

	M:	Was there ever any I guess training period? Did you ever have any interactions with the person who took over for you?

	R:	Her name was Michelle Carodine. I did make myself available to her if she needed me. We talked a couple of times. And then some of the same students that had helped me were still there, so still available to her. Her husband; I wonder if he’s still at Florida, well they’re divorced now, but Keith Carodine was her husband, so some of them were familiar with her a little bit. But I made myself available.

	M:	Do you know about the current state of the IBC right now?



R:  I’ve heard that it has moved — well let me say this, I’ve heard a couple of things. That there’s talk about it being restored at one point, there’s talk about it being in a new facility at one point. I got a tour for it says Reitz Union, they almost have









it’s like La Casita, IBC and I don’t know if there’s something else in the same area. Is that correct? But I don’t know if that’s temporary or if they’re going to go back to a separate location.

	M:	What happened was when I guess they remodeled the Reitz Union they put some suites in there under Multicultural Diversity Affairs and there is La Salita and there’s the BEC, which is the Black Enrichment Center.

	R:	What’s La Salita? What is that?



	M:	It’s the small suite for Hispanic students.



	R:	Oh you mean La Casita. They call it something else now? M:	Yes ma’am, it’s called La Salita.

	R:	Oh, okay.



	M:	And there is also one in there for the LGBTQIA affairs and there’s one for Asian- Pacific Islanders. But when they remodeled that, that was there but they also had La Casita and they also had the IBC still there. But what happened was, probably as you know, those houses were really old.

	R:	Yes. [Laughter]



	M:	And they had neglected it for so long that they basically had to condemn it and they were going to—

	R:	Oh wow.



	M:	And they were going to remodel it, but the controversy was that they were going to make it into a U-shaped building. A lot of students didn’t like that, they thought that they should stand on its own.









	R:	When you say a U-shaped building, you mean that everybody was going to be in it?

	M:	Right, it was— R:	Okay.

	M:	Well it was going to be connected. One side was going to be La Casita and the other was going to be the IBC.

	R:	Oh, I see. Okay.



	M:	So there was a lot of controversy on that and then ultimately they’re — they decided on the two separate buildings after like protests. Now we’re just waiting for it. They tore down the houses, we’re just waiting for it to be rebuilt.

	R:	Well that means a funding issue. Where’s the funding coming from? It’s not going to be rebuilt unless there’s been earmarked to have it rebuilt.

	M:	Well the board of governors gave them like, I think, three million. R:	Oh, okay.

	M:	Or something. But that was for the U-shaped building, and then after the protests they magically found another million dollars. It was a mess.

	R:	What is it going to cost, well I mean you probably don’t know, what is it going to cost to actually build what is needed? Do you know?

	M:	I’m on the committee, but I don’t know, because we haven’t — we’re in the architectural stage. And they gave us like, they gave us like an estimate, but that was like two years ago. That was summer of like, summer of [20]16.

	R:	Wow.









	M:	Or maybe it was summer of [20]17. It was a year ago. It’s been exactly a year ago. And it was supposed to already be built. So we’re just waiting on that. But I asked that question to see if you knew, because I wanted to ask you what would you suggest is the most important thing to preserve or recreate in the new IBC building?

	R:	I think it’s going to be — because you really have to look at it in my opinion, look at the ethnic background of the, and I’m just going to say Blacks enrolled there because everybody doesn’t identify the same way — how do you find a way to engage all of them? Because if you try to just engage one group versus the other, and I’m saying you collectively, not you specifically, I don’t know if the IBC will succeed. But I do think having a space where, even some of the hard conversations can be held, right? I mean, you know topics that are on the top of mind of students but they don’t maybe have a space to collectively go somewhere and really talk about that. I think that that’s something that really needs to happen. And I think that’s one of the things that we achieved. I mean, there were times when we had people that, lectures or discussions and you have people with tears. It’s, “I have a place where I can get this out.” And that to me is part of the college experience that should not be lost.

	M:	Well thank you for taking the time letting me interview you.



	R:	Okay. Good luck with this. It’s kind of scary, you never know when you’re on tape with how does it come across, but hopefully I’ve been helpful to you.

	M:	Yes, ma’am, yes you have. [End of interview]















Transcribed by:

Anna Spiller,

November 16, 2018

Audit-edited by:

Sandra Romero

November 2, 2020

Final edit by:

Sandra Romero

February 23, 2021