AAHP 233; Lawson; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 233 Jan Lawson

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Mary-Beth Hasty on December 5, 2011 55 minutes | 31 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Mrs. Jan Lawson recounts her childhood in the Porters area of Gainesville and her experiences working for the University of Florida. She attended Gainesville High School as one of the only Black students but also remembers the closing of Lincoln High School and the resulting school riots. She was ostracized by her peers for having White friends and attending Gainesville High School. Once Mrs.

Lawson graduated from high school she got married, had a child, and moved to Pensacola. Then she returned to Gainesville and was hired by the Registrar’s Office at the University of Florida. Mrs. Lawson is also an ordained minister for Compassionate Outreach Ministries.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Lincoln High School; Gainesville High School; Integration]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 233

Interviewee: Jan Lawson Interviewer: Mary-Beth Hasty Date: December 5, 2011



	H:	This is Mary-Beth Hasty and we are here interviewing about the African American Studies Oral History Program and today is December 5, and it is around one o’clock, and we are here actually, right outside the Admissions Office talking about a little bit about African American experience and history specifically in Gainesville. So thank you so much for being here. Can you state your name and your date of birth and where you grew up?

	L:	My name is Jan Lawson my birthday is November 1, 1954, and I grew up right here in the beautiful city of Gainesville, Florida.

	H:	Okay, that’s awesome. What was it like growing up here in Gainesville? You grew up during a segregated past where that was during the Jim Crow South era and you had issues of civil rights and integration. What was it like growing up in Gainesville?

	L:	Well, the city was divided when I was little. And all of the Black people went to predominantly Black schools. I was one of the first ones to integrate to what is now Kirby Smith Center. It was Kirby Smith Elementary School. That’s when rezoning took place. We basically kept to ourselves and never wanted to go anywhere outside of our neighborhoods because the schools that we went to were basically walking distance so somewhere where your next door neighbor could get you to.

	H:	Right so you must’ve known all the kids going there, you probably knew the families, where their houses were.

	L:	Everybody knew everybody, absolutely.





	H:	People watched over each other and were connected. L:	Absolutely.

	H:	I remember before we started this interview you talked about how Gainesville had a train going through it and how it separated the town literally from Blacks and Whites. Can you talk a little bit more about that?

	L:	Yes I was raised in the Porters area which is your southwest side— predominantly Black. From one side of the hard road you had more White people over there, but the train track came straight up Main Street all the way down, which divided basically the east side of town which was very, very poor and then the southwest side which was equally as poor. Then you had your northwest and northeast sides of town very, very poor. So the train tracks represented a mental separation if you would.

	H:	Right.



	L:	Then we had the seaboard coastline that went down Deport Avenue that divided like the apartments for the White students on that half, and then the poor, poor Black people down where the basketball court is now. It was just a row of the Black slave houses up on stilts. Still there when I was growing up. I just remember that you just, you knew the imaginary lines where they were and what you did. And going to school at Kirby Smith meant I had to walk through the White neighborhood to get to Kirby Smith, and it was really tough because um, we got called names, and I had to do it alone because, like I said—

	H:	You were one of the only ones.





	L:	I was one of the only ones. I was the only Black girl in my particular class, and there was only one other Black guy in my class.

	H:	Why was that? Why were you the only one?



	L:	Because, like you said, it was a tight-knight community. H:	Uh-huh.

	L:	What happened, I remember was that people from NAACP came around with this petition to please fight segregation in the schools.

	H:	Right.



	L:	And they sold it to our parents, basically. H:	Right.

	L:	And an aunt raised me. I wasn’t raised by my mom. My mom and dad divorced early on, and she thought it was best for me education-wise, because we had old books, old school, just old stuff, that I would have an opportunity to learn, to better myself or maybe get ahead in life. Because like I said that was a very, very, dirt poor side of town. We had outdoor toilets.

	H:	Wow.



L:  We had chickens and chicken coups. Yeah! We had greens and peas in our backyard—all of this stuff. But it was a tight-knit family, and when they came through, a lot of people just didn’t buy it.

H:   Right.



	L:	But fortunately for me my aunt did, but also unfortunately me because I lost all of my friends. And I became a “honky lover,” a “cracker lover” from my Black friends. And then on the other side, from the White people, it was just really,





really hard, but I was never afraid. And I learned quickly that was in the sixth grade when I went, I learned quickly that I could make friends with anybody, and I mean I became an icon because the White girls didn’t know how my hair could stay up in a ponytail and theirs couldn’t. At playground time, they were interested in my hair. The way they played hop-scotch and different stuff was real boring.

We had double-dutch and we had the league going. . [Laughter] So I was able to teach them my culture.

	H:	Kind of be like an ambassador.



	L:	Yeah. By the time I got to seventh grade, which was at Howard Bishop which was on the north side of town, integration was almost like enforcement. So I met up with a lot of my friends, new friends, but then there was a—

	H:	New friends from the elementary school?



	L:	Yeah, my friends from the elementary school.



	H:	Uh-huh. That you made, okay so then you got to go to high school with them. L:	We go to go to middle school.

	H:	Oh middle school. Sorry, sorry.



	L:	Yes. So that was the hot item to go to middle school. So I met up with a lot of them there and we became friends again because they didn’t have a choice then, because it was made into law and they had to do the best they could. But I remember walking home and drinking from the Colored fountain. But I was a dare devil, I drank from the White fountain because I felt like I want to see what their water tastes like. I remember the Colored bathrooms. They looked the same to me and they flushed the same so I just was a dare devil, if you will, because I





just didn’t, I didn’t understand that. You know, because in my community, I wasn’t taught that because the insurance man that came to the house was White, the milkman was White. They drove through with the little trucks and the Gainesville Sun newspaper man, he was White so I was taught to respect everybody, but I quickly learned that everybody wasn’t taught that way. So, I went on up through the ranks in middle school. Then I went to Gainesville High. That’s when the dilemma came because they closed down the all-Black—

	H:	Lincoln High?



	L:	Lincoln High. Even with the integration people still had that choice. H:	Right, okay.

	L:	I’m gonna still going to go over here.



	H:	But then that’s when they forced the closure. L:	They forced it. They had to force it.

	H:	And Lincoln High had such a role in the society and was such an extension of the Black community.

	L:	Absolutely.



	H:	It was a real, I mean, even now they still have Lincoln High alumni receptions, just trying to connect and network. And they forced that down and closed it. But it was interesting for you because you had already experienced schools with Whites and had adopted and adapted and you had made friends, but. So you were kind of stuck in a special role because you were kind of being able to play all fields, but you were individual and didn’t have kind of any fields of your own at the same time.





	L:	But then it got really, really sticky. Because that’s when the school riots came. I was caught up in that. And the Blacks that chose integration at that time, or their parents. Some of our friends from all-Black Lincoln became our rivals. So it was color against color for choices that we had nothing to do with it. If your mom said you had to go and take this opportunity to go to an integrated school to get better books, better education, better teachers, or whatever, you didn’t have very much choice in that. But then our friends who chose to not come became our enemies when they came over to GHS.

	H:	Right.



	L:	So when they closed all-Black Lincoln I remember my brother-in-law was in that class. It took away their graduation ceremonies, the band, all of that grassroots stuff got taken away. They had to march with the people at GHS and unfortunately the White school or the integrated school didn’t do a lot of things that the Black schools did culturally.

	H:	Right, like traditions.



	L:	Yeah, their traditions, their baccalaureate programs. That was a time for the community came—

	H:	Right and probably like the signing, and the—



	L:	Yeah. And the chorus, and the whole pomp and circumstance, take your time and marching down the aisle, I graduated. They took all that away. So it brought a lot of anger from the Black community. And it fueled the students. And then we had on the north side a lot of redneck people who saw the occasion to fly the









rebel flag and say, “Nigger go back.” So that particular day you just had to run for



shelter and the police was involved. It was just a riot.

H:

I don’t know about this. So it was a day of a riot? A race riot?

L:

At Gainesville High School.

H:

I don’t know about this. What happened?

L:

I was in the tenth grade. That’s when they closed Lincoln permanently.

H:

Mhm.

L:

And their seniors were bussed over or what have you and they came unwillingly.

H:

Right.

L:

With an attitude, rightfully so.

H:

With a resistance attitude.

L:

Their football team was dissolved.

H:

Band.

L:

Just everything was like, stripped. But I’m there already. Already exposed.



Knowing a lot of them so when the punching started and the pushing started.

H:

Where did it start? It started—

L:

In the courtyard.

H:

During like a cafeteria time? Or just switching classes?

L:

Early in the morning. It came with the energy.

H:

Was it on the first day of school?

L:

It wasn’t the first day of school. It was like during the school year.

H:

It was probably just caused by someone—

L:

I think it was situational.





	H:	Right.



	L:	I think it was parental. Because you had— H:	It was building up.

	L:	Long before. And then these people are saying, well I heard them with my own ears. More niggers are coming. I’m standing in the middle, cause the people that were already there it’s just like, well who do we deal? And I was even told by someone, “You have to make your choice. You’re either going to be Black or you’re going to be an Oreo. This is the era of the Oreo and the honky-lover,” and all of that.

	H:	Honky-lover?



	L:	Mhm.



	H:	I don’t even know what—I’ve never heard of that.



	L:	Well it’s just a demeaning word for a White person. They called them honkies back then. A cracker. Anything like that, you’re a honky.

	H:	Right.



	L:	For instance, if you were my friend, and an issue came up with race, I would have to not let you be my friend in public because I would be a honky-lover, because I would automatically have to make a choice to be with my sistergirl.

	H:	You’d be chastised for—right, okay.



	L:	Yeah. So it was that. I was strong enough to stand my own ground. It didn’t matter to me, but I saw this one student who was bothering no body, skinny as a rail, White guy, and just because he was in the hallway during the time, I saw a group of Black boys just take him headfirst down into one of the garbage cans.





	H:	Wow.



	L:	He was just trying to get out the mail for the morning. And teachers kept us in classes and just locked the doors and it was a bad, it was a really bad time, and it took a long time to diffuse that. And people wanted to raise the rebel flag, fly it. It was just bad.

	H:	What did it feel like kind of being caught between those cultures?



	L:	Helpless. Because I understood what everyone else was feeling from Lincoln and whatever school they came from that was predominantly Black. I understood because I had really close friends and people in my neighborhood that was still going. But I also was a part of GHS, you know. I was just really torn because when I got to GHS I didn’t see, I guess I was so oriented to being in an integrated school by that time, I didn’t see the prejudice. It might’ve been there, but I actually didn’t see it. I sang in the chorus, I worked in the office. I did everything everybody else did so it didn’t really just jump out at me as integrated, per se. It was just school.

	H:	Right.



	L:	But when it—



	H:	Cause you were free to do it.



	L:	Right. I didn’t have a problem. I made my own friends. Whatever color they were. You know, it just didn’t don on me that it was just that serious. But after that riot I realized because my brother-in-law just really had a bitter taste. And rightfully so the way they did it, but it was just unforgiving at that time. But by the time we





graduated, I graduated in 1972. We had the largest senior class to ever leave GHS because we were a combined people by that time.

	H:	Right because Lincoln closed down.



	L:	Right and they integrated the student government with people from Lincoln and people from GHS, the football team. By this time, in a two-year period, they had meshed both people together as much as possible. And I enjoyed my senior year.

	H:	Yeah?



	L:	Yeah! We were a big class and a rowdy class, a loud class. It wasn’t so much Black/White issues. It was just being bad in 1972. That was it.

	H:	Right.



	L:	Which made it much easier for—



	H:	To have things in common and have common attitudes and you know, music and you know, just—

	L:	Yeah, and when the band played it had some Black faces in it. I remember a song, it was called the Horse. And GHS learned how to play the Horse. And that gave the Black people something, you know. Because Lincoln’s band was just really dynamic and played really good and they danced and the GHS band was like really like real boring and—

	H:	Lame.



	L:	Yeah, dry. [Laughter] So it was able to bring some life to the school. And we had other Black teachers to come, because I remember. My home economics teacher, my typing teacher, my chorus teacher, and we started getting you know,





multicultural, other people. I don’t remember a whole lot of Hispanic people in my class, but there were one or two and some Oriental people or Chinese people or whatever they were. When we were in school they were just all Chinese, no matter where they came from, they were just, Hey that’s a Chinese—you know that’s the way it was.

	H:	Right



	L:	Just growing up in Gainesville was really different because downtown was the big deal. Big, big deal. And I could just walk two blocks to downtown. That was your Woolworth, your McCrory’s Five and Dime, it was JC Penney, a Bob’s Shoe Store, Bacon’s Bootery, Bell Lindsey, oh there was some hot stuff to get your allowance and everybody would meet downtown, so it became different when the mall came, which was on 13th Street and Sears was there and it just kind of faded out of downtown. It did bad for the poor people because we could no longer just walk downtown, we had to either have a car to get over to Sears and whatever else was in Sears, the learners, the upscale stuff until downtown just dried up to bars and more bars and more bars. I remember the Florida Theater was our summer outlet. Every summer, everybody had to have a bottle cap. You could go to the Florida Theater to watch the movies and eat black licorice and popcorn. Everybody did it together. It didn’t matter what color you were, that was the hot commodity.

	H:	To look forward to.



	L:	Yeah, to look forward to. And then the made it into a nightclub, and unfortunately, bad stuff started happening.





	H:	It’s sounded like that kind of hampered or closed down, what brought a sense of community, and it was a historically a way that everyone in the community kind of bonded together, or especially the Black community. You could go with your allowance, or just go to the theater, it’s too bad.

	L:	Well, we had the mom and pop groceries stores. H:	Mhm.

	L:	On certain corners.



	H:	Who were they run by? Were they run by Blacks or Whites? Or everyone?



Anyone?



	L:	The only Black businesses I really clearly remember were some barber shops.



Some ladies did hair out of a little section out of their house.



	H:	Okay.



	L:	Mhm. Over in the Porters area there were juke joints, nightclub things, little hole in the walls, if you will. In the daytime the kids could go in and buy candy and pickled eggs and dill pickles and pig feet, but after a certain time—

	H:	Night time—[Laughter]—it turned into adults only. L:	It belonged to grown people. Yeah.

	H:	Did you ever go to those places, you went to those places, and—?



	L:	And bought candy? [Laughter] Pickle over there. I tried to get my little dance in.



Mhm.



	H:	That’s funny. And then going beyond a couple things that I wanted to ask you about was how now you working for the University of Florida, and we talked about a little earlier before the interview how the University of Florida was not





colorblind or it really was unfair to especially the Black community in Gainesville, who would sometimes, you know, work for them. So what is it, back then, you know, a lot of people, a lot of Blacks, don’t feel or don’t associate with the university, they’re not Gator fans, you know, whatever, and now you’re working for them, so I don’t know if you still, if you face any criticism working for the university or—

	L:	No. I can tell you now, no. Our counselors in school did not prep us or gear us to come to UF. We were gonna basically choose a predominantly Black college.

	H:	Right. Like FAMU?



	L:	Like FAMU, Bethune, some predominantly Black school. H:	Right, right. Where did you go to school?

	L:	I didn’t, I just started working. I got married. I worked in high school for the Gainesville Police Department Explorer Program, and at that time it was a community thing and every summer we would go have the block parties for the poor kids. I was groomed to be a police officer really. The Explorer program is a wonderful program. And at the time it was predominantly Black youth who wanted to aspire to be a policeman, a career-oriented type person. So I started working that every summer from tenth grade on. However, toward the end, I did dispatch. I did, I rode with an officer, and Earnest Long was my sergeant at that time and we did all the communities—the poor communities, the projects, to help keep the kids out of trouble. Yeah and have something to do for them. We would have big cookouts for them and play all kind of music and they would turn the big hydrants on and then everybody have a—





	H:	Aw yeah.



	L:	Have a Hallelujah time. And I loved doing that cause it was community work. It was gearing me towards a career, because growing up, we would just walk through campus, you know, we would just walk through campus. There were no Black faces that I could remember as a young person so I mean, and you were told by you older head, “Oh that school’s not for you.” And then you could hear all the White people saying, “That’s not where Black people”—they didn’t call us that, but anyway, “t\That school is not for this person or that person,” so you just didn’t even look forward to it. And the ones that we knew, like I knew, Sam Taylor, some of the first ones to come and the Hell they caught, I was like, “Oh, not me, no.” It was okay.

	H:	What, what Hell did they caught? I don’t know—



	L:	Discrimination, making it harder to get into certain colleges. The endurance of being different, different shade, different culture, or whatever, hard to get into law school, hard to get into nursing, hard to—you know.

	H:	Right, right, and not support from your faculty or from the dean or—



	L:	None. Almost like, What are you doing here, kind of thing? So they couldn’t actively be a role model for a lot of Black people in the community cause they would say well you were a kiss-up or a suck-up or you’re a Uncle Tom and you wanna to be White, and so, we didn’t receive a whole lot from them. Some people did, but as a whole they were like mhm, yeah right, mhm. It is not great to be a Florida Gator.

	H:	No.





	L:	The only thing I remember as a childhood hooking up with Florida was the homecoming.

	H:	Right the Homecoming Parade.



	L:	The parade because what, the Florida A&M band was going to be in it, and the other Black bands used to be a big to-do here, and all of the people would come and just fill the streets and the floats were authentic, and the smoke would come from them, and we would dress up to just to the parade. Lots of candy and the Shriners and all this was a big deal. So we didn’t know what the campus represented, we just knew, “Oh, this is Homecoming.”

	H:	This is exciting



L:  Yeah, without UF, what is Gainesville? H:  Right.

L:  One horse. Maybe a half a horse. [Laughter] Because we own so much now. But after that we would all go home, have dinner, take a nap cause we were going to Gator Growl.

H:   Oh okay.



	L:	It was free, it was family oriented, we didn’t understand the fraternity jokes or whatever, but we didn’t go there for that.

H:   I still don’t. [Laughter] I don’t understand those jokes either.



	L:	We were there because Florida A&M was going to do their thing, so the Black community quickly just—

H:   Supported and wanted to go see, and it was fun.



L:   Yeah. Did we understand the jokes the comedians had?





H:   No.



L:   No. Whatever. But we knew that—



	H:	Still an experience, you know, just the production and everything. L:	Yeah. And the pizza was good.

H:   [Laughter] They give you free pizza?



L:   Unh-uh, we had to buy it, but it was good. It was like eating out. This is your night out. And the whole family went: mom, dad, and the little kiddies. I lived right here so I could just walk down. I remember they brought James Brown.

H:   Oh really? No way?



	L:	Mhm. To the gym. The Supremes, all of them went to the gym. H:	Wow!

L:  We were not interested in the school. H:  Did you go see them?

L:   Yeah!



	H:	Oh my gosh. Tell me about that. That must’ve been awesome.



	L:	It was. It was packed and crowded. And it was a big event because the community came. Were we interested in registering at UF? No.

	H:	Right. But you were interested in the things, the fun that UF had to offer. Because that was about as much as they were willing to offer. [Laughter]

	L:	Mhm. In the Reitz Union we would go skip rocks across the pond. But I did not want to go in the Reitz Union. It did not look friendly. I didn’t see any Black faces walking in that area. So we just kinda sat and skipped rocks across the pond. But





it was an outing for the day. And then we would walk back down the railroad track and go home.

	H:	So, how did you end up working here? You were working for the Police Department with the program and—

	L:	Yeah, after I graduated from school and my tenure was there because my Aunt said no, that I couldn’t be a police officer, it was not popular to be a Black police officer. My best friend’s dad was one, a motorcycle cop. He got injured, he got robbed because he would arrest the bad guys. Unfortunately, a lot of them were Black guys. He got injured. Of course, you only had a few Black people, it was not kosher. So that ended my career real quick.

	H:	So he, the Black police officer, your friend’s dad got— L:	Got robbed.

	H:	Got injured by possibly the Black community— L:	He was.

	H:	Because he was, you know, enforcing—



	L:	The law. Mhm, so my mom did not want that for me because a lot of the ones I worked under barely made it to sergeant. They struggled, and she just didn’t want that for me. I wanted that for me, but she didn’t want it for me so—

	H:	So what did you do instead?



	L:	I got married, had a baby. Started a family. My husband was in the military, we left for two years, and came back.

	H:	Left where?





	L:	Left from here, went to Pensacola. Stayed mainside Pensacola for two and a half years. It was tough in the military so my husband said,” I don’t want to do this anymore.” So almost three years later we came back. There was a freeze on jobs. There were no jobs.

	H:	What year was this?



	L:	1975. [19]75. Because I got hired January 31, 1976, and I have been with UF thirty-six.

	H:	Wow!



	L:	You know why?



	H:	Why?



	L:	Because it was, it was a freeze when I came. And in order to get in the door there was a long, long, long, long, long waiting list. And what was open to me, a lot of people would not take. It was housekeeping. I took it because it was honest, it was a job, you know? It had benefits that I could take care of my baby with. The pay was like a dollar and something, but for that, it was still a lot of money, cause you know, we could get gas real cheap and milk real cheap and bread real cheap. So I looked at it as an opportunity to take care of myself and not be a welfare recipient. Nothing wrong with that for people who need it, I just didn’t want to do it. I wanted to work. I wanted to better myself and sharpen my skills since I wasn’t going to be a police officer. So I got a job working at housekeeping. I worked there one year, because I knew I could do something different.

	H:	Right.





	L:	And I interviewed at the Registrar’s office, which was once at Tigert Hall in the basement. And I was hired. And everything I learned, I learned on the job. And just experimenting and trying different things for myself. I have an outgoing personality, I made friends easily with anybody, so I was promoted and I stayed because Gainesville didn’t have very much to offer in the private sector because I guess UF owns everything just about, here in town. You know, every little piece of land, you see a blue sign with UF written on it and that’s it. People say why you stay so long? It helped me raise four children. My oldest child will be thirty- nine in March and my middle child, my only daughter is thirty-three. And the twins is thirty-one. So it helped me raise my kids, because I did get a divorce a little bit later. Like I said, I worked up through the ranks. And the only degree I have is in Bible College. I still didn’t get a degree from UF, but I work with people all day long who come to the admissions office to get their degrees. I’m comfortable in that. I mean, you can take a course here and a course there, but I don’t feel slighted if I don’t have a degree from UF. I have a degree from UF, you know, so.

	H:	Yeah!



	L:	It’s just a way of life here. You get a state job, you’re good. H:	So you didn’t face any criticism by supporting UF?

	L:	No, because most people that I know or go to church with or just know, work for some faction of UF. If it’s Shands, they have a UF section. There’s [inaudible 34:24] that’s state, cause it’s basically state. But to work UF, you don’t get criticized, not the people, but the system gets criticized because you don’t have the greatest pay in the world. When you put us up against other institutions, we





don’t get a whole bunch of money working here. There’s still people making twenty-one thousand dollars a year, or twenty-six thousand dollars a year. Insurances go up. There are not a whole lot of bonuses in certain areas, and you see that and you know that so you have to make a decision, you know. Either you can pack up and leave and go somewhere else, or you can stay here and endure until you can do better or get a second job.

	H:	Switching over, you mentioned the church, and I know that you are a minister. I just wanted to ask you a little bit about that and what role the church played in your life or your community. How you became a minister.

	L:	The church is the foundation of the Black community. It wasn’t a denominational thing, cause like I said I came from the Porters area. And out of that area there was a Holiness church here, a Pentecostal Holiness church here, there was a Baptist church here and a Baptist church there, right up Sixth Street was the Methodist church and all these, and little prayer bands of just, little ladies coming around praying for people and reading the Scriptures. Of course you have Jehovah’s Witnesses coming through, so just the solid foundation of the church was there, and people really loved each other, they loved their neighbor as their self because I remember my aunt would say, “Oh I’m going to town,” which was right up a few blocks, Would you watch my door? And we could just go to town and just leave our screen door open and we knew Ms. Lucy was going to watch our property or they were going to babysit us, and it was one big unity because we all went to church and everybody would say, I’m going to tell your Aunt if you chew gum in church or whatever you did wrong.





	H:	Or if you misbehave and— L:	Yeah!

	H:	If someone had to take on another shift at work, you know.



	L:	There was a baby sitter. If someone died, the church surrounded them. There, there was chicken galore and all kind of greens and potato salad.

	H:	Right.



	L:	They, they could just here uh, Oh Ms. Lucy passed. Oh my God! And everybody—

	H:	And, What should I bring? You know.



	L:	Yeah. It was just warm. Yeah, people had their falling out and a little stabbing over here and a little shooting or a little fighting. But overall, on Sundays, it was quiet. Even people who were not church go-ers didn’t get out and clown, and they respected the preachers. They—if this lady was a missionary and she came to gather together all the kids for Sunday school, they went with her. She was the Big Mama. And they’d gather everybody to Vacation Bible School and to Sunday School, and the picnics and they told us about Jesus and the big Easter programs and the Christmas. It was everybody. It didn’t say, Well I’m not going to your church because you’re Baptist, and, Oh, I’m definitely not going to be bothering with the Pentecostals or Methodists are just too close to Catholics.

They didn’t do all of that. You just went. They had a big Easter egg hunt,



everybody went.



	H:	That’s great.



	L:	I kind of miss that. You know?





	H:	Is it not like that now?



	L:	No. No, I think we got into, out of what Christ came to do. And that was to love and to reach out to everyone. And to reaching out to our core and no more. We reach to the people that we are comfortable with or the people that we know, or to the people that cater to us, and what we believe. We won’t open our hearts to change sometimes, or, accept people for who they are. Our church just fed hundreds of people downtown.

	H:	What’s your church’s name again?



	L:	Compassionate Outreach Ministries. Yeah, Bishop Larry Dennison is my pastor, and our theme is we’re reaching out, but not out of reach. So we extend a hand to people, and the ministry is based upon a heart. The heartbeat is love. You love God, you love people, you love yourself. And love just, just that’s the key thing. If you don’t have it you have nothing. So it was a great time before I ate my Thanksgiving dinner to go serve the homeless. And there were hundreds of people down there. And my compassion is for people. There—I’ma tell you, poverty has no discrimination. It gets every race, creed and color. And they were there. Even some of my old classmates from 1972 are now homeless, and you know, riddled with drugs and alcohol and disease and stuff. But my love for them is greater now. Because I have a new scope on what love really is, and what I should have in my heart for people: not just Black people and White people, but people in general. And that’s how I made it here for thirty-six years, to remember my call of God on my life cause I mean, all nationalities work in that Admissions Office. And there are people who do not like Black people, and they will let you





know. But because of the love of God that dwells within me, I’m able to work with them. Not tolerate them, but to work with them and show them respect, and honor. And there are cultures of men who don’t like women giving information.

That’s kind of too bad cause that’s what I do all day. [Laughter] So he teaches me how to love the unlovable. And it’s my grassroots from a child, but it’s at a different level now in ministry. So you learn more, you do more.

	H:	What, you talked about the change of scope, the change of your mindset about trying to open up, was that a change for you or was it’s a change in your community? What—

	L:	I think it’s both. I see things differently than I did when I maybe was a hothead teenager that if you called me a nigger I would: “What? Who are you talking to?” You know, want to retaliate and call you something or knock you out or something like that. I’ve learned that I would have to lower myself really low to get with them. So it was just better for me to do it Christ’s way. Was it easy? No. Because it causes me to deny myself and what I think and what I want to do.

	H:	And your own justice.



	L:	Yes. You know let him work it out. He’ll fix it, and I won’t have to go to jail, you know? And the community has changed because I’ve lived in the projects. I know what it’s like to live in a poor project. I know. I know the stigma that’s put on you when your kid catches the bus and they go back to the Lake Road Apartments or to the Carver Garden Apartments. I’ve lived both places. I know what it is to come from the hood. I was born and bred there, but I also, now I live in a mixed community. So I know how to get along with my neighbors. And it was because





of the foundation and my change of heart. Cause living in the projects wasn’t all bad, now. It wasn’t. We all bonded together. I had food, you had food. You had kids, I had kids. Everybody ate, you know. Christmastime, you didn’t have no money for yours, we’d scrape up and get your kid a bicycle and I have a bicycle. Whatever, you know, there was a certain bond there, but the difference is I chose for it not to be a permanent fixture. I knew I could move on. I own my house now, at least I’m buying my house. And I live in a very nice, quiet, mixed neighborhood.

	H:	Three last things I wanted to ask you about is one, the role of your aunt in your life, and two, what it was like—you talked about being a woman, and how the challenges that you faced being a woman, and thirdly, I just wanted to talk lastly about what the election, the 2008 election meant to you. But first, which would you like to talk about?

	L:	Let’s go with the woman. H:	Okay.

	L:	I come from a very strong line of Black women. I have now, with some cousins, joined our family tree. And when I look at the pictures of where I came from, they were prominent people, their photographs were top hats and very proud stamina people. As far back as I can remember they were very proud, strong women.

They had their ideas of how to do it, and who to do it with. And they didn’t mind, they were vocal, they didn’t mind sharing or caring, cause my mom and dad divorced when I was three, so that’s how I ended up with an aunt, because my mom worked all the time. But by the time I was seventeen, I was back with my





mom. And my mom was a cook by profession, and I was taught to cook, clean, wash clothes, I know how to take care of my kids, I was taught that at home. I didn’t have to go bump it and get it from my girlfriend down the road, you know, how do you do this? I was taught that from how to take care of myself.

	H:	You were prepared.



	L:	So I came from that lineage. And being a woman, especially in ministry is tough. Because a lot of men—doesn’t matter about the color, they don’t want to hear it from a woman. Or they will take you to a Scripture that will say, I suffer for a woman not to teach, but what they don’t pay attention to the part where it says Paul said because it was some discrepancies going on. So I have to search and be in the Word, to take my stand. So as I do that, my roots are being—

	H:	[Laughter]



	L:	Yes ma’am. I’m vocal. I’m not afraid to speak what God has for me to speak. That came from my childhood. Sometimes I have to reel it in cause I can get a little testy. [Laughter] Yeah, you know like, anybody can. But the challenges are great, even on the job, like I said. Being a woman telling a man what, you know, that his records are flagged and, “No, we cannot do this,” or, “You must do this in order to”—they don’t like that. So I try to face my challenge the way that God would have me to do it, cause if I do it on my own, my retaliation may not be conducive. [Laughter]

	L:	And I’m about to retire in July, so I don’t want to mess that up. I have to rely on the Lord.

	H:	That’s a short stretch!





	L:	Yes ma’am. I’m almost out of here. Just being a woman in society sometimes is just not easy, at all. I know we’re classified in the Bible as the weaker vessel, but that’s not weak in spirit. We are to be treated and handled differently. I specifically reach strongly to other women. My passion is that because I experienced divorce, and raising children alone, and working at UF. I know what it is to work the night shift, the evening shift, and the day shift. So there are all sorts of aspects of life that I’m well versed on. And it was great to have a Black president. It was just elating, cause I’m glad it happened in my lifetime so that I could see it. Whether he’s good, bad, or otherwise, I don’t have an opinion of that. I have a personal opinion but I don’t get into politics so much because I really believe that whoever is in office, there’s going to be a problem either way.

	H:	[Laughter] I agree.



	L:	So I just have to trust God and pray for the country, and pray for the people and the leaders that are chosen. I vote, yes I do. But we can find something wrong with the greatest of people, whoever gets to be president this time, God bless them, because the country really is in bad shape so I was glad to see Mr. Obama come into office, and I did vote for him. I pray for him because this is not an easy job, no. It’s not a popular job. So that will go down in the history books, and I can make sure my younger grandchildren, I have sixteen of them.

	H:	Wow!



	L:	Yes ma’am. I have another twenty-one on into one more coming in April. H:	Congratulations

	L:	Well, thank you.





L:   So I can just tell my little ones, This was our first Black President.



	H:	It’s amazing how you can tell them about how you were, you know, yelled at walking through White neighborhoods

L:   Oh, yeah.



	H:	And how you remember race riots and Colored water fountains and Colored bathrooms and you know, still in your same life time, he’s president.

	L:	I can tell them how we didn’t have playgrounds. We had fields that was cut by maybe your dad or somebody’s dad would get their lawnmower and cut it right where the Medical Plaza sits over off of 4th Avenue. That was a big field. And we played kickball, soccer ball, football, and it would be like all of the neighborhood would be there and we would have our own little cheerleading squads.

H:   Aw.



L:  Or whatever. I remember, the White kids would cross the hard road. When I say hard road that’s where the S&S Cleaners now. That was 3rd Street. All the other streets was mud and dirt and pot holes, okay?

H:   Okay, so it had concrete.



	L:	Yeah they had hard road, we called it, concrete. And then just right across over there was the dirt road. So they would come across the hard road down to the fields to just look at us play cause we was having such a good time.

	H:	[Laughter]



L:  And one boy had the nerve to ask can he play football and they were like, What? You can’t play no football. Because it was a Black thing, it was a unity thing. And





we learned to have cokes and potato chips. We made it a big deal. But eventually they started letting everybody play, anybody play.

	H:	Why didn’t they have playgrounds? Was it like the state? L:	No money. We didn’t think about it.

	H:	Right, so you just found a field and set up camp and had a ball. [Laughter]



L:  Or a street that didn’t have a whole bunch of cars on it, and played street ball. You had to do what you had to do to. There was no money for it. But now the Porters area have the basketball court right there on Depot.

	H:	Mhm.



	L:	That was one of the fields. So they put that there at a park. H:	Right.

	L:	They put that track for people to walk around. That was that field we played on. So years later it was cultivated. Even the Porters Recreation Center came about, and they have a playground so, it just took years of somebody saying, We want better, we want better, and voting for different things so, I seen it all.

	H:	You have, and you can tell your grandchildren that. L:	Mhm.

	H:	Well, I mean, to go back to what you talked about to your strength and your foundations, and how you can get along with people, and your strength as a woman, that’s actually what led me to ask you for this interview, was because I had remembered you. I came in here, I forgot for what reason, it was actually last year.

	L:	Really?





	H:	And I was thinking about people I could interview and I’m a woman, and I went to an all-girls high school and you know, I was very, women’s strength was something very emphasized in my foundations and it’s something I recognize in other women, and I remembered you.

	L:	Well wonderful!



	H:	And I thought that, you know, if I could ask you for an interview, it would be spectacular, and it has proven to have been.

	L:	Well yeah, wonderful, wonderful. And I’m—



	H:	And you didn’t tell me anything special or we didn’t have any special conversation, I just could recognize that you were fair, that you were on point, that you were open and fun.

	L:	[Laughter]



	H:	And very strong. And so I had remembered you.



	L:	That’s wonderful. That makes me feel good because at the end of the day, my heart’s desire is to just have one person, if I can have just help one person, I’m going to be really, really happy because then my living is not in vain. I know that I will reach a lot, a multitude of people, and the platform that I hold as minister, I love it because I reach people. I don’t have to be in a pulpit to share the Word.

I’m sharing with you right here on a park bench on a lunch break. [Laughter] So you’re my one person for the day, even though I might go inside and say something nice to other people, I’m talking about hardcore ministry, you know, where you get to talk.

[phone ringing]





[break in interview]



	L:	And I, I do gotta go to work now. But it was wonderful to be able to sit and talk with you.

	H:	Yes, thank you so much. L:	You are welcome.

	H:	What we’re going to do is I’m going to write this transcript up and we’re going to give you a copy of this on a CD and we’re contributing it, archiving in history.

	L:	Oh boy!



H:  And it could be accessed through libraries and used for research and things like that to really understand the lives of, living in Gainesville, and your amazing life, so thank you so much.

L:   You’re welcome, and you’re welcome to come by the Admissions Office anytime. H:  [Laughter] I will.

[End of Interview]





	Audit edited by:	Holland Hall, July 18, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 21, 2019