AAHP 564; Dixie; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 564 Linda Dixie Interviewed by Ryan Morini on May 10, 2018

34 pages



Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; African Americans; Quincy, Florida]



AAHP 564

Interviewee: Linda Dixie [with Estelle Forehand present] Interviewer: Ryan Morini [with Sam Dixie present]

Date of Interview: May 10, 2018



	M:	This is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. Today is May 10th, 2018, and I’m here with Sam Dixie and Linda Dixie. Thanks for joining me today.

	D:	You’re welcome.



	M:	Could we begin with when and where you were born?



	D:	I was born on December 7, 1947 here in Quincy, Florida. M:	Is this where you grew up?

	D:	Yes.



	M:	So I have a lot of questions I can ask if you wanted to…it seemed like you kind of have something you wanted to say to start off with.

	D:	Well, basically I was just going to start off with was my involvement and voting registration.

	M:	Okay well…so I guess briefly, where did you grow up in Quincy?



	D:	Really, we moved from Cleveland Street which is the street right in front of us. I was born there and I think we moved in this house when I was in second grade.

	M:	Okay.



	D:	So I was born in this area which we called subdivision, and later we teenagers called it across the railroad tracks…cross the tracks. [laughter]

	M:	So what was it like growing up in Quincy? What do you remember from growing up here?

	D:	Well growing up when you’re a child, you know it was a lot of happy memories with my family. As we got older you became aware, of course, of the things were











there was Black interests to different things in Quincy, as far as Doctor’s offices. Blacks had to use the back door, and side door and then, movie theatre, we had to use the balcony. And um as far as being aware of that our parents were in jobs that were not – the pay wasn’t equal as far as s, and the tobacco fields, being aware that many times the workers were not paid well, and people did domestic work – worked in homes, worked hours and again the pay was very minimal, and many of them went to work on Saturdays and Sundays and as a child I… somehow I knew the wages were small, but as I got older I thought, I wonder if they made more because they went in on Saturdays and Sunday, and they didn’t. So if you were a housekeeper and they wanted you to serve their breakfast on Sundays and dinner then that person had to go in to make that… I think at that time it was twenty dollars for most housekeepers. We were aware of our Black children who lived in the city, but still sometimes there was bit of a distance they had to…there was no buses for them and then we were aware that the White students, their schools had better books, and other facilities that we didn’t have, and then as far as downtown with the stores we could always see the White students enjoying, being able to sit down at McCory’s and have lunch, and that was something that Black people were not allowed to use – the lunch counters to sit.

	M:	Did your parents ever talk to you explicitly about all of that or was this something you just kind of had to notice growing up?











	D:	I think it was just something that we noticed, and as time went on and watching television and knowing what was going on around the world in terms of students protesting in other areas – I don’t know whether I was seven or eight but even at that time Blacks were not allowed to sit anywhere it was a certain area. So a lot of things we were aware, of the train and so forth… but it was something in that time that when you are a child and you are told you know this is the way it is but as you get older, reading newspapers, and the movement was happening in other areas, so you were aware that other people were very much trying to change the status quo and were saying we deserve the same rights as other people.

	M:	When you were growing up did you ever try to drink out of the White fountain or sit in the front of the bus?

	D:	No.



	M:	One other question about growing up here, before we get into the movement. Did you go to Stevens High, or what were the schools you went to?

	D:	Yes, I went to Stevens Elementary School from first to sixth grade, and then from seventh to twelfth I went to Carter Parramore High school.

	M:	Okay. Are there any teachers that stand out from that time period?



	D:	Oh sure. I remember many of my elementary school teachers from first grade, I had – most of them are deceased now, my first grade teacher was Mrs. Neila Preston Atkins, my second grade teacher lived not too far from my church, so I





used to go by her house, Mrs. Jezebel Jackson, to see her and she was always very polite and courteous. I’m trying to think of any of my elementary teachers





that I may have visited them in their home, but I remember going by her house. And my fourth grade teacher was Mr. Palmer and he’s one of the men who was very active in CORE, there were not a lot of professional people. And Mrs. Vivian Kelly was not my teacher but my father was in a – we would call it, was a large, but it was not necessary one like, it was a burial organization that aided families –The Good Shepherd – and Mrs. Kelly was in that so I already had that relationship with her from my dad going to the Good Shepherd Lodge, and she later was very active in voter registration.

	M:	Do you think Mr. Palmer or any other teachers…did anything you were learning in school kind of prepare you for involvement in the movement at all, directly, indirectly?

	D:	I think as we went to high school, I’m just saying, some people from my elementary school, Mrs. Kelly was there. But when we were in civics and learning about when we started getting into seventh and eighth grade leaning about your rights as an American, your right to vote, and people here were many of them were fearful of voting, because I think they had been told by Tobacco growers not to. But when you get in the seventh and eighth grade you’re getting more into the constitution, ninth grade and on, in terms of the right to vote.

	M:	Did your parents vote? Did they talk much about voting when you were growing up?





	D:	Yeah, my parents voted and they never gave me the impression that they were fearful, but I know other people that did vote.

	M:	So how did you start getting into the movement?



	D:	As I said, from the movement the fact that you’re watching things on television in other areas and students and colleges. Somehow I can’t remember exactly how word got around that there was going to be a meeting – I guess I’m trying to remember whether some people had come to our church – but anyway, we heard about it and I told my parents that there was this meeting and I wanted to go to it, and I was allowed. Mom and dad were agreeable and I think – I’m trying to remember whether the first meeting – I believe was at St. James AME Church. It was about voter registration, and other things, but I remember particularly on that. So we were at the meeting and we heard at that time I think it was either Patricia Stevens Due and husband speak and there were other people as I said, who spoke and we were talking about things that we wanted to change and one of the ways was to start getting people registered to vote. So that was one of the big things that we were into. And also if there were other things of people being mistreated or stuff like that, that was also looked at, and I think a lot of the tobacco farmers as I said were going to threaten people, if they voted they were going to have to leave and stuff like that. But my focus was on getting out to register people to vote, initially.

	M:	So Patricia Stevens Due would’ve been a college student around that time?



	D:		No, she was I don’t know whether she was maybe thirty then, but she had already completed her studies and her husband was a lawyer, they had…and he





still lives and she died maybe about four years ago I think. But her husband John Due still lives here.

	M:	What do you remember about Patricia Stevens Due, as a speaker? As a person?



Did you interact with her much?



	D:	Oh yes, she was very dynamic she and her husband both. She was one of the speakers and they would talk about trying to bring changes to our area. She had been very active in the movement over in Tallahassee with the sit-ins of students, and she shared her experiences, doing that and as I said, they came and they brought other students who were also connected with CORE and they came in also to help. So there were all these influx of White and Black students from across the country who also came to teach us how to be nonviolent and that was the whole thrust of the movement. So they taught us the importance of nonviolence, and we went to workshops. And I went to Atlanta, Georgia, and I got to meet many of the original icons, if you want to say... of the movement. I got to go to… I’m trying to remember the school, it was held at one of the local colleges. I think Morris Brown and the workshop on Spelman campus I think even maybe Morehouse. And at that time, Jose Williams, Jesse Jackson, Bayard Ruskin, Andrew Young, and I think Dr. King came, but they were all these speakers and we heard about nonviolence and they taught us how to if anyone approached you the importance of not being aggressive, not responding in an aggressive way.

	M:	How many people were at that workshop?



	D:	Well there were people from all across the country.





	M:	It was a pretty big event?



	D:	Oh yes it was. It was students from everywhere. We were singing freedom songs and people talking about the movement and having gone to jail, and in some areas there was more harassment in terms of dogs, they prepared us for water hose and different things.

	M:	Had you ever been to anything like that before?



	D:	Never before that, just the local meetings where we had gone. Just rallies just talking about voter registration and so forth, and the importance of beginning to mobilize people and getting people to be aware that you had a right to the right vote and that this is a way to make changes.

	M:	How did you end up at the workshop? Were you selected?



	D:	The CORE workers asked people and I can’t remember now who else went, but I know I went. Also at the same time I think SCLC also became involved, so some people may have gone through the Southern Christian Leadership, but I know I CORE was of the people that sponsored me for that workshop. And I think that we were there for a week.

	M:	Did you stay in touch with any of the people from around the country who you met?

	D:	Unfortunately, I was in high school at that time and now I kept saying we would ask each other, you know, have you heard from somebody, and some people have gone online. I found out where some of the people were. Two of the people





that was a brother and sister, and they were from Miami and when I went to Miami Dade college, I think it was Laura and Mike, I think it was Green, I forgot, might have been something like Greenspan, but as I talk I might remember. They were at Miami Dade so I got to see them, and as I said [inaudible 15:47] who was in the movement who later moved to Miami. And there were a couple other people who came from the University of Florida, one of the young men was Ben Cowens, he is living in Dade county, and I think he had run for office. And there was a young lady who unfortunately passed a couple years ago, I can’t think of her name as much as…it’ll come to me because her daughter is in the theater – Doris Rutledge. I think that was her name. She married a gentleman whose name was Hart, so I think her last name is Hart now, but Doris was also very active in the movement, and again since she lived in Miami then, I moved there, and then I was able to connect with her. For many years, she was very active at the ACT-SO competition for the NAACP.

	M:	What kind of NAACP presence was there here in Quincy?



	D:	Well, Mrs. Vivian Kelly was NAACP at that time, Mr. Whitcamp, who was one of the elementary – he was the principle when I graduated from Stevens. He was very instrumental, and Ms. Vivian Kelly, and I can’t remember everybody else. Of the professional people, Mr. Brian and Mr. Palmer, he was also… James Palmer was my fourth grade people and he’s still living and Mr. Clarence Brian. I’m trying to remember other people, if you can help me remember anybody else. At that





time the ministers at Chapel AME church was very instrumental, and Minister…. I can’t remember his name right now…

	F:	E.E. Hunter?



	D:	Yes, Reverend E.E. Hunter. We used that church a lot. And then it was Mt Moriah Missionary Baptist and Reverend Krutcher, he was the minister at that time. He was very active.

	M:	And the first reverend you mentioned, how do you spell his name? Sorry.



	D:	Hunter. H-U-N-T-E-R. And as I said a lot of the churches we were able to use, some of them I think the deacons, some of the ministers were a little… not as active in their name to be associated. But most of the churches, their members were persuaded so we did use some other churches but these were the larger churches, so a lot of the meetings were held at Chapel. There was even a few at my church at Antioch. But I know a lot of the deacons and the trustees or whatever the different churches. So we did have meetings that went around in different churches.

	M:	Do you remember any particularly good speakers at those meetings?



	D:	Well primarily I can remember as I said the different Civil Rights…the workers also sharing their experiences and talking about things, so garden would be at the meetings and different members would get up and share… Dukes would talk and then other members would come in, I can’t remember all of them now, but they would share their experiences and people would get up and talk about different things in terms of getting people to the poll and telling the people who





had gone in and were able, to see that they could vote and they would also share their experiences.

	M:	What really spoke to you about voter registration as a movement to be a part of?



What really convinced you or got you involved?



	D:	I think, number one, you’re in school, you’re learning about your right to vote, and then the news on television, this movement was very much that you could see other people and you could identify with wanting to be a part of a movement that was gonna bring positive change, that people were gonna be able to elect people to represent them, who were going to help you, and if you failed they were not going for then you could somebody else in the office, but at least you had an opportunity to be an active citizen and not be treated as a second-class citizen.

Now you had a right, and all the Black publications, Ebony, Jet, local papers that the Black community had, the Pittsburg Courier, all these media was also very much advocating and letting you know what was happening across the country, what could happen, and what should be affordable to us. Just because we were southerners, that we have rights, and that had to exercise those. And the first thing was to register and vote.

	M:	Was the Pittsburgh Courier the major Black newspaper around here? The



Vendor, any of those others?



	D:	Yes. It was mainly Pittsburgh Courier. M:	Did your parents subscribe to that?





	D:	I don’t remember the time whether… I know we got it, I think that we must have gotten it maybe through someone locally selling it.

	F:	Ms. Clara Mcneegle.



	M:	Who is she?



	F:	She’s the one that sold the Pittsburgh Courier, she and her children. D:	I couldn’t remember, I knew we had…[laughter].

	M:	Who was Ms. Gloria McNeegle? She lived in the neighborhood? D:	Not too far from us.

	F:	They walked and carried and delivered the papers.



	M:	Okay. Distributed it like that. So you’ve described going to the meetings and things, what were your first experiences in other parts of the movement, in voter registration drives or demonstrations or other things?

	D:	Definitely the meeting was the first thing. I was amazed that it was well attended, and it really ignited people because we could see what the situation was, and it was an opportunity to bring about change. I would liken it to a revival, a spiritual movement. A lot of singing and praying and songs that were from the Christian faith, This Little Light of Mine/ I’m gonna let it shine, all the songs and the chants, “What do you Want/Freedom”, and relating it almost to David and Goliath, we didn’t have money but we had our voice. We were not the people with the power. Many of us families were workers, but we knew that they provided a valuable service, and looking at ways that things could change. Looking back I remember as a little girl, my father worked for the mine, and I could remember daddy talking





about the mine when they went on strike, and unfortunately they were not successful because people didn’t – not didn’t, but the people who went on strike that there were other people brought in to work. I know my dad ended up having to look for another job, which he did find other employment. So I was aware of things that people had tried to do to bring about better wages for the Black workers. And then I guess similar, my dad worked for Frost-Moore, and somewhere around – I think it was not too long after the CORE came to town – they also went on strike, the Black workers. Tobacco farmers brought in their workers and that was something that they always – pretty much kept their workers so that they would be insured that they were available to work the farm. And that was what happened. So again, was not successful because of that.

Because the other workers came in and the farmers had their workers work. So this was things that I was aware of, the inequities. During the movement there was a lot of things about what is wrong and what is right, and that we had a higher authority that was on our side, and we just had to walk in faith, and with unity, we could do it, and we could do it without resorting to violence.

	M:	Were you ever scared at any point during all this?



	D:	I think when you’re young it was almost like…this is something that we can bring about a change, and you don’t think about dying, but I knew that there was a possibility, because you saw in other areas, I think it was a young man from Tallahassee, I can’t remember exactly when that happened, and some people went into swimming pools, and sometime it wasn’t necessarily someone pushed





him in, anything like that, but sometimes a worker would just collapse or an accidental drowning or maybe something happened when the person was going in to swim. It was just such a spiritual high of knowing that we could bring about a change. And seeing other areas on the nightly news, of the areas that people were going in large numbers, yes, they were being arrested, but there was a majority, so that the jail could not hold everybody, and people were still singing songs and people coming actively into volunteer.

	M:	And to touch back on the workshop, what was the actual nonviolence training like? What was it like to go through those workshops?

	D:	We were broken up unto groups, and they discuss the history of nonviolence, about Gandhi, and how he had been successful, and then people came in, other workers, and showed you how possible to fall, or not if you could. And kind of the middle of some of it now, it’s kinda hard, but actually people coming in standing. And you’d have one group who would be the hecklers, so you would be kind of aware what could be done, what you might and how you will respond. So you had that. I remember that people talking to or trying to push you down, stuff like that. Using that as a demonstration on what to expect when you are picketing with signs, walking. If you went in a restaurant, and we did go into restaurant and order food, and what might happen, and so forth.

	SD:	I would call it role-playing. So you would play out different situations that may happen, like if you went to a certain restaurant, you may have someone act towards you in a certain way, and they would have someone act that part out,





and they would show you how to respond and not respond, to what was directed your way.

	D:	They might have somebody taunt you, of “hey nigger, you don’t belong here!” Throw ice at you. Different things of telling you, and you were supposed to remain calm, not to respond, and if all possible to remain doing whatever you were doing and the police were called, to be aware that you might be arrested, but to, again, at all costs not to verbally get into any kind of exchange with the person.

	M:	Was there anyone who tried that and said I can’t do this, I’m gonna answer back or something, or did people kinda just go with it?

	D:	As I recall none of us ever ended actual role playing and then we were on the picket line, I don’t remember anyone ever heckling – we would sing, we would sing songs and stuff like that. Like I’m Not Gonna Let Nobody Turn Me Around and stuff like that or other songs, but we didn’t get into actually responding to the person. We sang, that would be one of the things, we would sing, doing the actual picketing and the demonstrations, we were in front of buildings downtown, in front of the theater, other places. And then we went into restaurant, movie theaters, similar. Remain calm, we didn’t – I remember thrown water, ice, in the movie theater.

	M:	Just people walking by would throw things like that?



	D:	I guess you’d be watching the movie, you wouldn’t be sure, but all of a sudden you food feel something – yeah. So when they came up behind you…





	M:	So what was your first demonstration, do you remember?



	D:	It’s hard to say what was the first one, as I remember – I think outside by the courthouse and picket by the Leaf Theater, but those were about – I remember being down in the downtown area and there would be signs about the right to vote and stuff like this.

	M:	So, was it challenging to get people to sign up to register to vote?



	D:	At the time, I remember we were going on the farms and we would tell people about that they had the right to vote, encouraging them, and preparing them of how it would be done, what were the times, where to go, and so forth. And people would get lodge, people would be taking people to the poll with their cars, and we’d ask people who had cars that they would provide transportation and I think there were a lot of people. There was one lady who, she didn’t drive but she had a card that she had purchased, someone else was like her chauffeur, her driver – yes! So a lot of the people helped carry people to the poll, that didn’t have a way to get there. Those people, the other people were walking distance, and them were able bodied, but some of them were elderly and needed a ride, yes, people provided transportation for them.

	M:	What were relationships like between the police and the Black community here?



	D:	Well there were few Black policemen, and all I can is many of the people at the time, I think Otha Edwards was the sheriff, when I was growing up, and my father, as I recall from his perspective, I think he thought he was a fair person. I didn’t remember at that time anyone being treated, brutalized by the police, but it





was just the thought that if people in the community were having problems with people committing crime when there was someone breaking in their house, or someone threatening them, people would say, “we’re gonna call the sheriff.” Otha Edwards was the sheriff at the time and because of people being rowdy and drinking or getting into verbal or physical altercation, you were aware the jail – at that time as I said I wasn’t aware. I think years later during the civil rights movement, sometimes I would hear people saying that there were people who had been. A young man who had been dating, or was supposedly – I wouldn’t say dating – had said something to a young White lady and he had to leave town. He was arrested and harassed. But as I said through my growing up years, I had got an impression, just from my dad, I don’t know what Estelle can tell you more, but – and then we had the Black policeman at that time. We had Mr. B.W. Roberts, Mr. Macon, Macon Williams, and there was Mr. Luther Moore. So finally we got, I can’t remember exactly the year, it seems like it was just a little bit before 10th grade, I may be wrong, but I remember those were the Black policemen.

	M:	Do you remember much about them? Their role, what they did?



	D:	Well naturally they were only police in the Black community. If there was a problem, and mainly I think in the downtown area, and they may have been called out to do other things, but that’s basically what I remember.

	M:	I mean, from what you remember, were they able to help people and diffuse conflicts? What was their role, did people in the community respect them?





	D:	Yeah, people in the community respect them. As I said, I’m trying to remember anything other than where the beats was, I can’t remember that, but I remember mainly I would see them seemed like to me in the downtown area. It’s possible that they might have been called out for other areas in the community…but I can’t remember where they were, the assignments.

	F:	Well it was strictly downtown with the Black district what was downtown. And that we usually one block from Highway 90, which is Jefferson St. down to Crawford St. And at that time the jail was on the corner of Crawford and Adams St., and they usually patrolled just that one block. Crawford St. up to Adams St. That went on I guess about 10 or more years and then they branched out. They added more Blacks to the police force and that started branching out to going all over the city. But at first for years they were just that block, Adams St. It was a place on Adams St. and Crawford was south, and Highway 90, Jefferson Street was north, and that was their territory.

	SD:	And that basically the Black business district.



	F:	The Black Business district downtown, grocery store and saver, dry cleaners, and restaurants, and clubs.

	M:	So when you start getting involved in the movement, is this around the same time that Mr. Jewel ran for sheriff?

	D:	Yeah.



	M:	Do you remember much about that?





	D:	Well again, we were trying to get people to vote and register. To register and vote. So my brother, he had got involved in CORE, decided that this would be a way to really generate and show people that a person could run for office. So he decided that he would throw his hat in the ring. So this is what he did, he went in and completed the paperwork, and he had signs made and we would encourage people that this was an opportunity for them to vote and to really try to motivate people. He was going to show people that we can participate. And we have right to participate. He was the one to show them that we have a right, and I’m gonna run. So we started encouraging people to vote and let them know that he was running for sheriff, and to encourage people to go and vote, and to vote for him.

	M:	So you had a lot of family getting involved in the movement, didn’t you? Was that common, were there a lot of families getting involved in the movement?

	D:	As I remember, other adults who came got involved, they would usually have their children. Ms. Kelly had children, and her children were involved. And there was some other people…I had friends who went to school with me, and again they went and perhaps their parents might not have always come to the meetings, but the children were involved. So there were other people, the children. We had another young man, Neil, and Billy Jackson, Johnny Watson, there were other people, their parents might not have been able to come to all of the meetings, but the children were active and participating. And another family, Ms. Kelly’s sister-in-law, they were very active too – the Moores. I remember Mr. Moore and Mrs. Moore being there, I think their both deceased now, and their





children, Francine and her older sister Johnny-Belle, I think Johnny-Belle was in college at that time, but I remember her coming to a couple of meetings, and the Francine’s younger sister Priscilla, they were in the movement. So that was – the parents would be there, and they would also. My dad was working at night, but his organization – not his organization – when I say “his”, daddy was involved with the Good Shepherd, emancipation of the Good Shepherd. Mr. Kelly was in that and Mr. Campbell. CORE used the office, the emancipated, the Good Shepherd, which was that’s their formal name, I can’t remember all of it, Emancipate All over America. They were commonly called the Good Shepherd. They provided a place for the workers, for Pat and John to live, and they had to use that as a place where the workers could live.

	M:	It seems like your parents were supportive of your involvement.



	D:	Yes they were. But I was letting you know, daddy was active in that way, the organization, because the workers, CORE had the workers needed a place to live, so the Good Shepherd provided that. Daddy was very active in that.

	M:	Was there anyone in the community who was opposed or concerned? You said some of the pastors were a little reluctant.

	D:	Yeah, I think there were people who did not take a visible role. There were a few educators early who got involved and that was [inaudible 45:05], and after I went to college – but as I said Mr. Campbell would have been the principle at the elementary school, and remained at Stevens. He was very active with Ms. Vivian Kelly and they both were also in the Good Shepherd, but they took a very active





role. And Mr. Palmer, who had been my 4th grade teacher, and some of them, as well as in the NAACP, they would come to the CORE meetings. And Mr.

Clarence Brian, he was one of the people I could remember who were professional people, and then there were other people who were not in a professional capacity, but they were hardworking. My brother was coming to the meetings, a couple of his friends, I forgot them all, but still, would come to some of the meetings. I’m trying to remember some other people. One of the gentlemen who’ve gone, he had had a business, Robertson, I can’t think of his first name…

	F:	William.



	D:	William Robertson. And as time goes by you forget stuff. But remember when people who were at the meetings, and the people agreed or thought it was a good idea, I can’t participate because of this or that reason. But other people would. But at the mass rallies, when there were a lot of people there, again, they may have said, maybe could they give money, we had a newspaper we used to give out, so I’m sure there were people who just didn’t want people to know that they were quote, going to CORE meetings, but they would be at the large mass rallies. Of course they would take up donations, so that helped with the newsletters and other things,

	M:	Do people still have copies of those newsletters?



	D:	I don’t know. Cause after I left they had a little office, whether anybody kept – Mr. Campbell or Ms. Kelly, I was thinking about there was one lady from St. Hebrew





that I forgot to mention her, Ms. Jones, she was very active Ms. Dorothy Jones. There might be some other people. I’m just saying she also was a school teacher. A lot of other people were somewhat fearful that they could lose their jobs, or whatever reason, but these were people who were visibly involved, and would speak at the meetings and help get people to the poll.

	M:	So in terms of some of the people who would might not have as visible, do you remember any people who did the cooking for the meetings or some of these other things to make sure that people were being fed or taken care of?

	D:	At that time, remember, it was just the Civil Right workers. As I remember, when we first started out, Reverend Krutcher, we were over to most of the early meetings were at Mount Moriah, so Mrs. Krutcher would prepare meals for the workers. They would have lunch. People may have invited when the workers were out in the community, people probably welcome to have a meal, some people. But at that time the workers were housed, and sometimes they would have stayed with a family, but most of the time they were housed through the CORE office.

	M:	So who was Mrs. Krutcher, was she from here in Quincy?



	D:	No. The Krutchers were I believe from Alabama, but they were assigned to Mount Moriah church.

	M:	And they were very supportive of the movement? D:	Oh yes, they were actively involved.

	M:	Did Reverend Steele ever come out here from Tallahassee?





	D:	I think once or twice, I was aware of who he was.



	M:	Did they ever bring any speakers in from outside for the mass meetings here? Or was it mostly local speakers?

	D:	There was some outside speakers, I can’t remember all of them, but there were some people who came from other areas who would be at the meetings, and they would share their experiences of what’s happening in the other areas, and give us that extra boost that change was coming. We had to do was just act on it, and each person being aware that we didn’t have necessarily the money, but we had God on our side, and things would change if we just continued to get people to see that. We had a right and we had to act on it, and if we did, it could be done.

	M:	So there were a lot of students, then there were some of these adults and professionals. Did they have a different role? I know I’ve heard of demonstrations where sometimes some of the older adults would act as monitors or other things. Was there a structure to the picketing or was it just everyone picketing was picketing?

	D:	Well I know many of the people on the picket line – cause remember the other adults had jobs – so most of the time the picketing was during the day, and I’m trying to remember whether it was always on Saturdays… Probably the main days were Saturdays for picketing, cause we would go by businesses. It’s been so long I can’t remember doing it after school, but I know a lot of the time we would be looking at how we could – the adults would be helping plan the different





areas, and how we could go in and divide up the community, and look for people who would be instrumental in helping you once you got in. Say you were going to St. John’s and you need to point out people who would help you as you went into the community, and a lot of the churches, and I went to Gretna, then my dad knew a lady named Ms. Pinkney, and I stayed with her, I don’t know, for a week or two, and then I was assigned to the Gretna area. And somebody else was going to St. Hebrew again, Dr. Jones up there, but she would point out key people, a church, and maybe some of the church officials, you’d go in and you’d talk, and they would help you get into the community. And then if somebody else was over in the St. John community, or someone else was gonna be over, say, in the Shallow area, whatever, it was like that, it would give you connection to other people. They would go in and talk to them, and so you would be known you were gonna got to so-and-so’s house and they were gonna help introduce you to other young people who also are gonna be helping as you go into the community, other adults who help facilitate you to get into the area where you wanna go to, to go out and pass out the leaflets.

	M:	So you’ve mentioned some White activists being involved, and of course you were integrating spaces and things like that. Did you interact much with White people growing up? Or was it mostly in the movement?

	D:	Not really, because where there were Whites who lived in our area, it was pretty much a separate lifestyle. My parents, when I was growing up, my dad was a farmer, so I would hear him talking about the different merchants that he





interacted with, but I didn’t really interact with anybody except the merchants that were in our area, when we would go to buy things like cookies and ice cream, and maybe just as a child, going to get a snack or some bologna, or some cheese, there were White merchants who were located in the Black community. So you had that interaction, but other than that – and I think one time there was a White family who came and lived on Florida Avenue–

	F:	There’s White families still living in there.



	D:	But I really have that maybe the child, maybe the little girl and I played together once or twice, but other than that I’m just saying it was basically – we’d say hello to the merchants when you went in to by the store, but I really didn’t have any relationships other than working on tobacco farms, and every now and then there would be some White kids who mainly – I guess a couple of boys, I remember when I was working for Bobby D. Wood farms. By them I was in probably about 9th grade, 10th and 11th. But other than that – I babysat for a couple of White families when I was somewhere along 10th grade and 11th grade. So but that was only a worker – it wasn’t anyone I really had any other relationships, other than the working with the young guys who were in high school and I was in high school.

	M:	Did it take any adjustment to start working with White people or anything?



	D:	Well, that was all on a tobacco farms, so they were all working with young kids who were working to earn extra money, but for the most part, it would be mainly Black workers. Then I babysat for a family, one of my neighbors was the





housekeeper, and she had her family, but again for her job she would be asked to babysit. So somehow she talked to her employer and she said she knew someone. So she asked me if I would be interested in babysitting, and I said yes. So that’s when I would babysit, when the family went out. That’s how I got that job. But other than that, I just would work in tobacco during the summers.

	M:	What did you do with the money form working tobacco? Was that from the household?

D:  Well, fortunately, my parents – I would save the money, it would be put in the bank account. That was the money used for later on when I got ready to go to college.

M:   Did you know your whole childhood that you were gonna try to go to college?



When did you start thinking on it?



	D:	I probably…I don’t know whether my older sister had gone to college, but when I was little I wanted to join to the service, I think it was called back then a WACs or a Wane or something – but my grandmothers, when I said that it was like I had committed a crime. At the time I think it was associated that women who went in the service it was for prostitutes, so I just knew that it didn’t go over so well. So then later on I was interested in thinking about college, but I want to travel, so I thought from seeing the little articles in the newspaper, about women, I thought that’s what I wanted because I want to travel. But then they want to start thinking about, you know, you have your teachers in school, my older sister was a nurse I think first I thought I would be a nurse.





	M:	So, can you describe Ms. Vivian Kelly a little more to me, I mean just as a person, what you remember?

	D:	Well I will say, number one, that she was one of the teachers in the elementary school. I was not in her class, but I knew also from my father being active in the Emancipated Americans, and they would have what we’d call big events, where you get together – it like a little conference; I went to Wordsdale for it. And she would be there, and it’d be a big event, and people at first when they start we had little uniforms that they had, and people would wear the uniform, and I forgot what they used to call, what we call, not turning out, but there was a word – Grand Lodge. So they’d have this little convention and they’d wear their uniform, sometimes there would be I think three days. And there would be a lot of food and singing, and I can’t remember what else, but as a child that was a big event. We’d have this lunch every day, and on the last day I’m sure it was a dinner.

There’d been a dinner every day, but I remember at the end it was a lot of food. And I knew that our people, if someone passed away at the Lodge, there was a burial allotment for that. As a child, again, it was a large group of people and there were people from different areas of county who came for the lodge.

	M:	What about Mr. Palmer, James Palmer? What do you remember about him as a person?

	D:	First he was my fourth grade teacher, so as a teacher you have a lot of respect for your teachers. We didn’t have a lot of male teachers at that time in elementary school, most of them would be ladies, but we had a female assistant





principle, Mr. Campbell, and I think I had in sixth grade for a short period I had a male teacher. But at that time Mr. Palmer was – in elementary school I don’t remember a lot of male figures except for him and Mr. – I just forgot his name. I had him in sixth grade for a short while. And of course we had a male P.E. teacher. I think one or two male P.E. teachers, at least one, I think it was Coach Bradley at that time. Junior High, when we should just say seniors cause we had one highs school, then you had more male teachers, like in civics, I remember two male teachers, and then math or science, more. But in elementary school Mr. Palmer was one of the two or three, if that many, in elementary school. And later on, he was very active in CORE and then ACP, so I had already had that relationship with him.

	M:	So you did mention civics classes in seventh and eighth grade. Did they talk about the movement at all when you were in high school? Was that a direct topic?

	D:	No.



	M:	It was mostly just outside of school that you’d talk about it?



	D:	Yeah. Cause it was mainly movements, and this, and the House of Representatives, and the Congress, and this, and how does a bill become a law, and the amendments, and learn the Constitution and stuff like that. It was only up in the tenth grade, maybe people may have said a little, but not much.

	M:	Is there any story about or from the movement that kinda stands out to you especially that you would want to share?





	D:	Well, what I recall that stands out is a lot of young people got involved, and we maintained friendships. My ex-husband, I think I met him during that time. We were in school but we were not having any classes together, and somehow he was at the meeting, and I was at the meeting, and one of my other neighbors, a Herbert Knight, who lived on the same street, Thomas Alley, he was about two or three years younger than me, he was at the meeting. And another young lady, Biddie Jackson and Vicky Donaldson. There were a lot of young people who really maintain a close relationship. But it was just a time when I would say we saw people who put the good of the people before their own financial – they didn’t feel intimidated. A lot of other people would say “Oh, it’s a good idea but I can’t, I might lose my job,” but these people never, or our parents of the other young people, no one was put out of a house, no one lost their house or jobs, and one of my classmates family was living on the farm Biddie’s, was living with her grandmother, and they lived on Key Farm. Biddie was there and very active. And nothing ever happened to her family, but a lot of other people would say “oh, this will happen.”

	M:	A lot of fear I guess. And so Mr. Jewel I know, he spoke about the importance of nonviolence, but he did also say when he was running for sheriff, he’d drive around with a couple of guns in his truck anyway, cause he always kinda had them. Were there people who were certainly not going to be aggressive, but just prepared to defend themselves if something came up? Or was that ever really an issue?





	D:	I don’t recall anybody ever doing it. I know we would go places, nobody had a gun, and if they did I didn’t know anything about it. But mainly we’d be going to Tallahassee or every now again

	F:	Here come Mr. Jewel! [laughter] He’s so big. M:	Should I pause the recorder?

	D:	Yeah.



	M:	Sorry you were saying?



	D:	I was just telling you that my memories are just very – the excitement of being aware you were a part of something that was gonna change – I would say out here, cause the other parts of American, the North, you were aware that went on trips, that people were able to go in to other accommodations, and there were no Black and White signs when I went to visit my sister in Chicago. But when you were in the South there was different waiting rules on the train, I was aware of that.

	M:	So was there a moment when you kinda felt like you won in terms of the movement? Do you remember a moment that felt like a major success or anything like that?

	D:	Well I could see that things would change. As I went into college and come home and people were running for office, and eventually there was a Black mayor and so forth. But it took time, it did happen that people were able to see. The schools were – integration, that took time too, because a lot of people perhaps were a little skeptical about their child and how their child would be received, so people





were slow to – of course it was met with resistance, that anybody who is a first one, you know that people are not eager for these changes, and you could see on television and other areas, George Wallace, and the Little Rock Nine, and all of that, so of course when the schools were integrated is was probably three or four people for a couple of years.

	M:	So, we’ve been going for an hour, I don’t know if you wanted to continue further or not, I can ask questions all day.

	D:	I’m just saying those – cause by the time, [19]67, I was a junior in college in Miami, and then when I came back, I had got married my junior year, so by then I had my first child. I had continued to go to college, but by then I was not able to participate further. But other people were then active in the movement, and my then I think [19]67, or sometime around [19]68, I think they were starting to integrate the schools.

	M:	Do you remember much about the school integration?



	D:	I can’t remember, as far as I understand, my sister, I think her daughter and one of my other neighbor’s daughters, as far as I remember, Juanita Sherman, I thought they were among the first group to integrate the schools. I may be wrong on who else, whether it was somebody. I think it was around [19]67 or [19]68.

	M:	Well, are there any other comments you would have offhand about the movement or your experiences in it here?

	D:	As events of your life, I think that was one of the highlights, I can say of a personal participation. Years later I always compare it to say, I wonder, had I





been living maybe in another city like New York, any Northern or Eastern city maybe, I could’ve been a Black Panther. You know you just look at life and wonder things. I guess because I was raised in the south. But I could see if you were someone in an urban area, a similar thing might have been something of that nature, of thinking of wanting to bring change about. But because of my southern roots, and what was happening in this area, it was mainly the right to vote and using nonviolence as a way to bring about changes that would eventually, I would’ve hope, got us more into being active participators in government, so more by the people. Economically, unfortunately, even when I went to Miami, was some of the things got involved with the NAACP there. It was mainly trying to get more accommodations in jobs, because at that time when I was at Miami Dade, very few Blacks were employed in some of the department stores. Trying to get a job at J. Byrons, but I do remember the phone company – there was opportunities that were greater there, but still, it was just beginning to Miami to open up more with giving Blacks an opportunity to get into more jobs that were not always necessarily service-connected, in terms of housekeeping, food service, but getting into roles, and again outside the school system. Getting into major corporations and companies. Things were just beginning to open up.

	M:	So some people have worried that now maybe we’re sliding backwards from some of what was gained years ago. What do your thoughts on that kind of question? Are we still moving forward? Are we at a standstill?





	D:	I think in terms of jobs, there’s still a lot that we have not been able to advance as much as I would like to see – major corporations, there’s still somewhat of a ceiling in a lot of jobs when it comes to Blacks being able to get key roles. The incident in Starbucks, that happens in a lot of areas, and in terms of housing and banks that Blacks are not given equitable opportunities to get into businesses or own homes, is still a barrier. And the fact that again if you don’t have the jobs commanding the salaries when homes are built, they are often – the availability of homes that exceed people who are in, I would say the job market, the homes that are being built are for people who are major corporation executive, on the

$450,000 level, and for a family that’s making, maybe a husband and wife, who are making I’d say $80,000 together, there are no homes that they can afford. So for the working class, so this is where a lot of families are not able to participate in society and they are relegated to being renters, or having to live in areas of the city where there’s not a lot of services.

M:  I can come up with questions all day, but this is probably a good place to stop for today. But do you have any final thoughts or comments you would want to add to the recording?

	D:	In general, what you were asking, I forgot to add, in terms of a lot about institutions, in terms of the legal system, and the police, this is a lot of what we see institutional racism, when Blacks are arrested, we are treated differently. If a Black child goes to a store and shoplifts, and a White child does the same thing, of what the differences are in why the Black child is sent to jail and the White





child when they get to the police station, the police calls their parents. Similar in the school systems, so there’s a different side of what we see as, what we would call racism and being treated differently, as a second class, I would say similar. People are giving sentences that are for crimes that are not one where there’s a gun violence, particularly with the drugs, where the sentence was unfair, that Blacks are given heavier sentences than White who commit the same offence.

So this is where we are finding ourselves being lynched, if you wanna say, by the justice system.

	M:	So one other question. I mean, usually people talk about the move from segregation to integration or the national narrative is it’s only a positive thing. I’ve talked to a lot of people who think there were a lot of things lost during integration in terms of community cohesiveness and things like that. Do you think things have been lost since integration that the community had prior to it?

	D:	What I think was lost was a lot of businesses, when we went from integration, I think like Miami, when I got there the town was very vibrant, but again it’s a state, and to some degree, when people were allowed to go to other institutions, stores, and hotels and things, the Black businesses lost, because the White businesses had more – the hotel, there were more amenities that they had on a level that the smaller business didn’t have. So unfortunately a lot of times, more people went there, not that I can go to the Holiday Inn, or the Hilton – I can’t think, but people tended to go there. So that was a loss, as far as I could see it. And again, when you have the small businesses, the cleaners, and the Mom and Pop stores, but





we didn’t have anything but those cleaners, we usually supported them, but with the event of other businesses when integration came, more people started going to some of the other businesses, and not patronizing the others. So the Black businesses lost in that respect. And maybe only those like the funeral homes for a while, the beauty shops, but many of the other businesses been neglected, and then years later, again with other, as far in the cities, other ethnic groups coming in providing services, and being about to buy in bulk, like with the hair industry, so we began to see that a lot of businesses began to suffer.

	M:	Alright, well thanks, I think this is a good place to close there. I appreciate your time, sharing your thoughts.

	D:	Alright.





	Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 25, 2021