AAHP 192; O’Neil; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 192 Brittany O’Neil African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Andre Everette on September 2, 2011 4 minutes | 3 pages



Abstract: Brittany O’Neil was a UF Law student at the time of this interview, and she was interviewed at the unveiling of a digital display on a wall in the University of Florida Levin College of Law, titled “The Legacy of Virgil D. Hawkins: The Struggle for Equality at the University of Florida.” She describes the inspiration for the exhibit, some of the work that went into it, and the significance that she finds in it.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; Integration]



























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 192

Interviewee: Brittany O’Neil Interviewer: Andre Everette Date: September 2, 2011



	E:	It’s September 2nd, 2011. My name is Andre Everette. I’m at the Levin College of Law at a ceremony honoring the legacy of Virgil D. Hawkins. And tonight I have the pleasure of speaking with:

O:   Brittany O’Neil.



	E:	Brittany, it’s nice to speak with you. O:	You too.

	E:	How did you get involved with the project here?



	O:	It actually stemmed from a project that Professor Russell-Brown had here in her Race, Crime, and Justice class. It was a project entitled “Whiteface,” where one of her students went around—the purpose was to look at all the areas that are dedicated to Caucasian people, and the areas that are dedicated to minorities. And from that project—the girl’s name was Vanessa Goodwin—she saw the space that we did have, which was the wall of distinction. It was in a back area where nobody ever really went. She decided to write to Dean Inman—well, Dean Jerry, and Dean Jerry took it upon himself to form a committee. I was brought on because Vanessa graduated. So throughout the summer, I worked with the administration to ensure that the wall is what it is now.

	E:	And I don’t have my camera in front of me, so tell me a little about the wall as it is now. Can you describe it a bit for me?

	O:	Well, at the top part, we have various timelines. It shows Virgil Hawkins as well as other significant events here at the law school. There’s a section to the left, and it has more information, more in-depth, I guess like a newspaper article. And





then we also have what looks like a giant iPad—it’s a touchscreen TV, with a timeline of more significant events here at the law school as well as the University of Florida as a whole. You can touch it, scan through it, it’s interactive, and the timeline is also online.

	E:	Okay. So you told me about how you got involved with the project. Now could you tell me what this means to you personally as a Black female student, a law student here at the University of Florida?

	O:	As a Black female, it definitely reminds me that the University of Florida Levin College of Law is—they really believe in diversity, and I think they do that a lot more than some of the other law schools. They don’t just talk about diversity and admit Black people in, but they actually care about diversity, and making sure that minority students in particular see the struggle that has occurred. To me it’s like looking at the—knowing that we’re standing on the shoulders of giants. We see the struggle that they’ve gone through. We see that Virgil Hawkins was not admitted, Virgil Hawkins did not get a degree here. He got an honorary degree in 2001. You know, I also see Judge Mickle, when he got here, and George Allen, who was the first Black law graduate. You can see that they were the only ones here. If you look now, there’s plenty of us here. But, as just a student period, there are so many different people out here, so many different races. And again, it goes to the fact that diversity is not just about admitting people from different backgrounds, but it’s encouraging people to understand each other, and to be able to interact, so that when you do get into the legal community you can





understand your clients, you’re not judgmental, you’re more tolerant of other people, and more understanding.

	E:	And how would you say that students are upholding the legacy of Virgil Hawkins?



	O:	We’re trying! We’re trying hard! This person right here, he’s on the moot court team, he’s in the final four. Before, especially with the moot court team, it was something where a lot of minority students were not honored. And this is because of the racism that was just in the community. I think that, now, the University, Levin College of Law, is taking it upon itself to make sure that diversity is apparent here at the law school. They’re not just talking about it, but they’re actually out there trying to do something about it. And again, it shows you that there really have been so many changes here.

	E:	And is there anything else you’d like to add? O:	No, I’m good. [Laughter]

	E:	Thank you for your time. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, April 15, 2013 Audit-edited by:	Anna Jimenez April 16, 2013 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019