AAHP 761; Martinez; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 761 Aurora Martinez



Interviewed by Adolfho Romero on February 20, 2020 19 Pages

Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; Hispanic Journalists; University of Florida; Nicaraguans]



AAHP 761

Interviewee: Aurora Martinez Interviewer: Adolfho Romero Date: February 20, 2020



	R:	Hello! My name is Adolfho Romero. Today is February 20, 2020 and I’m talking on behalf of Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Today is the fiftieth anniversary of the African American department. And today, I have the pleasure to be with...

	M:	Aurora Martinez.



	R:	Aurora Martinez. All right. Thank you for coming in and having this interview with us. So, to begin with, I would like to ask you, what brings you to the event today?

	M:	I’m a freshman in journalism major, and I decided that I wanted to learn more about the department and possibly write a story about it for the WUFT website, [Inaudible 00:49] website, and pretty much to gain knowledge.

	R:	Okay. To gain knowledge— Is the African American department, is that your main focus within your degree that you want to focus on? Or is that just one part of the community that you are focusing on at the moment?

	M:	It’s just one part of the community I’m focusing on. And, also because I didn’t have a lot of exposure with being an African American means. The term, it’s fairly new to me. And I’m super interested in knowing how to [Inaudible 01:30] for people and how could people join and do something.

	R:		Okay, no problem. Do you have questions? You said that you wanted to ask some questions, so, we’ll try to both at the same time. So, this interview is going to be a little bit about you asking questions and me, also asking you questions just because we don’t want to be asking questions at the same time





	M:		Thank you, Adolfho. I do. First of all, how did the African American Studies department began in UF? Do you know?

	R:	It’s been fifty years now so, I mean, fifty years ago that’s when it began but I do know that it was difficult to start the program on its own because back then UF did not have any African American student until like the 1960s-[19]70s, that’s when they started including African Americans. So, there was not a lot of collective work within the community to help them but eventually, they were able to make it happen and staff worked together and they ended up founding after so many fights with the department, making it hard to open that department itself.

Because of the African American department, other groups such as even the Latin American Studies department was available –was able to work together, kind of, in solidarity in that sense to help start off and push off that program that other departments on the side. So, I think the foundation here was beginning with the African American department.

	M:	Right! So, do you think it began as a club or a small class?



	R:	I think it was more like the initiative that professors took that they wanted more representation about their own histories, remembering the histories where they come from because you are only hearing it from one perspective at times. And that will only be like the Anglo perspective. Even the faculty at UF at that time— there was not a lot of diversity as there is now. There is still obviously more diversity that we need to have, representation but back then, I think that was kind of set things off; having more rights and having more representation for the university.





	M:	That was super great! The thing is, it’s similar to how it was with Latin American Studies?

	R:	Correct! Like in Latin American Studies, some of the professors like I know [Inaudible 04:11] in the 1960s-[19]70s. He was at UF. He started off having the same position as other associate professors but he was being paid $5,000 less than other professors but a lot of it was just because of their color. And I’m sure that a lot of those stories are very similar to what has happened to the African American department and other staff members who they find themselves in that situation.

	M:	There were no privilege.



	R:	They were privileged and it’s not because class issue. Right here, it’s a race issue, you know, positionality of power dominance. But going back to you a little bit, let me ask, what made you want to study African American Studies at UF? How much do you know about the African American department?

	M:	Honestly, barely little. I do know some people who are studying African American studies but I haven’t gotten the chance to have in depth conversations and I realized that coming to this event will like expand my ideas and give me a better picture. Also, I like that it’s been interactive. You have the chance to talk to people, you have the chance to approach people and the fact that you have books outside and more than just some boring presentations. It’s appealing to me and I’m always looking at what’s going on with regard to the liberal arts department which I understand it’s linked to, right?

	R:	To which department?





	M:	To the College of Liberal Arts and Science. R:	Yeah, correct.

	M:	Is there something else you wanted to say? R:	Mmhm.

	M:	I think so.



	R:	Okay. I was going to ask you to—have you seen any racism, segregation at the university, either with the Latinos or African Americans or what is the imagery that you get of African Americans from what you know? How do you see them as or does— stereotypes here or what do you know about them? What’s your perception?

	M:	That of cultural shock, I would say. R:	Cultural shock. Okay.

	M:	‘Cause I’m Hispanic/Latina. I grew up there. I grew up in Nicaragua. I was born and raised in Nicaragua and moving here to the states has been a whole new world in the sense that I know people look at me and people listen to me and know that I’m not from here. And then, when I compare myself with people who are also Hispanic/Latinos. Most of the people here at the university were either born here or they came very little, so they haven’t really had exposure to how things are Latin America, and that doesn’t help much when it comes to like finding a place. Then if I talk about, like in similar terms with the African American community, back home, color is not such a thing. You see everybody else as equals and here, I can recall that for my—we had this huge ceremony in the beginning of the year when you are a freshman. We do [Inaudible 08:12] and we





have a little exchange for the person next to you. And the person next to me was a African American person and I was nice ‘cause I feel like I’m at the same way with everybody but I could feel he didn’t feel comfortable like being surrounded by mostly White American people and me, who in one way, I just don’t look like him. And when it came the moment that we had to exchange pins, he didn’t want to do it with me, and he just didn’t do it. So, I guess that it’s this thing of how you are born and raised like who are you surrounded by and how you have been interacting with people throughout your life.

	R:	How did that make you feel, like when he didn’t do that? Did you thought it was because it’s your fault, there’s something wrong with this individual or like there is something in there or what was your emotions?

	M:	No, I think that I felt confused, I felt puzzled ‘cause I assure you, I’m very empathetic, so I feel like if I’m talking to someone or if I saw hi to someone, even if I don’t know that someone, I expect them to be nice to me because I’m being nice to them. I’m not saying he wasn’t nice, but he wasn’t open to me, so I just felt like I had done something wrong. And then, I’m not comparing his experience with mine ‘cause I feel like there is not such comparison, there is story here and there in certain ways that is more complex and comes from way long ago. But I do feel this thing of this is me, and you are the others, like you are minority and when you are minority, you don’t always feel like you have the right to, sometimes not even be where you are.

	R:	Okay. Have you yourself faced any racism at UF right now? Directly or indirectly?





	M:	Maybe, indirect but it’s again [Inaudible 10:58] people are not like saying anything like rude or mean to you but feel you’re being left behind or you’re not taken into account and again, no one ever tells you that there is something wrong with you but you can tell by their actions. Even within the same Hispanic/Latinx community, it’s like I tried at some point to be part of the community like Hispanic/Latina community, and I felt I just couldn’t fit ‘cause I was open to – I understand the fact that they haven’t had the same experience as I have but I feel like they were expecting me to know everything works here. And I’ve been here for two years.

	R:	Oh, wow!



	M:	Not like I’ve been here. I was in New Mexico and it was a boarding school. So, I was kinda isolated. And then I come here, and this is a real world, you’re interacting with people on a daily basis, different people, more than 50,000 students a day and again, very open minded but I feel people are not as open minded. Or that people will try to put themselves in your shoes without acknowledging that that’s not their place. And I’ve had another like thing related to the African American community. I do have two friends who are very active and very—They do a lot of activism with regards to their rights as African American individuals and at some point we having this conversation of the ‘N’ word and again, it’s this thing of if you’re not open to talk about something, you better don’t. I appreciate I had the chance to talk to them ‘cause I just wanted to know, like it was something new for me and I share with them that back home, I will use the word and no one will care. And then here, of course, people do care





and they do have reasons but it was interesting ‘cause it was the two of them and me, and one of them was like, “I feel like if we are reclaiming the word, ‘cause they are entitled, if we are reclaiming the word, we shouldn’t make it exclusive”. And then the other girl was more into,” Of course, it has be exclusive because it’s been used against us.” And then they began this back and forth. I was more of a listening, to be honest as at that point. I was like, okay, I understood why it shouldn’t and why people shouldn’t. But then they began this argument on comparing this word with other words that are nowadays used to embrace people who’ve been put down with the same word. For example, the word, ’queer’ was it was derogatory back in the days and now it’s more like I’m proud I am.

	R:	It changes, right?



	M:	Yeah. And so one of them was appealing to that fact; to the fact that it change over time and then the other one was like it’s not the same. So, it’s interesting to see the dynamics ‘cause I feel the general idea is that every African American individual will say that it’s wrong for non-Black people to use it but it’s not a Black and White picture.

	R:	Okay. All right. Question?



	M:		Question from me: How is the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program related to the African American Studies Department?

	R:	So, at the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, we tend to work, collaborate with other departments, not just by ourselves. Our purpose in the program is to preserve the archives; the histories, the oral histories of people. And when we say people, it’s any person. We don’t exclude no groups. We try to exclude no





one and it’s just to listen to the history especially of the oppressors; everyone that is oppressing, their experiences because one thing you listen to in the media or wherever you go, you listen to one point of view but if you have like the actual source which is the person, they are the one stating it, then that makes it more of a valid claim, it gives it more empowerment. So, people tend to twist words around, switch stories around but by protecting the oral histories, we tend to create that reality in that safe space. The Samuel Proctor Oral History offers that space to do that. You know, a hundred years from now, next generations are going to listen to this point of views or histories. It’s just a preservation of it.

	M:	What a nice thing to do!



	R:	Mmhm. We are working not just with department of African American Studies, we also have Latin American diaspora collection which is part of Latin American studies as well. So we collaborate with different groups; with Vietnam veterans.

We have different collections. So, it’s not just one specific collection that we focus on and every semester we try to do a new collection to add it into our entire collection. And we do either video productions, we do podcasts, we do videos, audios, recordings, anything of importance of events that occur. It could be like we celebrated the Iran protest when the students were protesting outside of UF so we just try to –it’s sort of like journalism in a way if you think about it. It’s just letting people know the news and what’s going on; the problems out there. And the best part of this is like this is free access; access to this information is available. You just go Samuel Proctor and just explain what you’re trying to do or collection that you’re trying to find and we’ll guide you through that collection.





	M:	It’s very noble. Do you get a lot of people looking for sources?



	R:	Yeah. We have classes. Some professors use the Samuel Proctor to—part of their class as a requirement or a resource. They could be able to use it. Even if you want to write a thesis or something, you could use our transcripts to validate those points of views through the collections. It could be from farm workers collections too. We have UFW right now which we’re currently working on. It’s the United Farmers Collection and that’s from Washington, Seattle, to Florida, all dealing with farmer workers movement during the [19]90s-2000s. We have various projects at the same time going at once. At the same time, since we’re doing that, we’re doing the African American symposium. So, we have constantly on some projects. We have a lot of projects going on.

	M:	Will you talk to me a little bit about the symposium? How the idea came up and who is collaborating?

	R:	Okay, so the collaboration part, I cannot give much contest on how it began to create the symposium. I just remember I was invited to one of their meetings to collaborate with them to see how we could help since I’m the coordinator for the Latin American Diaspora Project. And they were like “Okay, why don’t you come in and see how you could help with this one,” so I came in and I’ve been helping in designing paper, worksheet, what timeline, like interview design, who is gonna do which positions. Just the logistics side of it but like the main people will be Dr. Paul Ortiz, Ryan—

	M:	I’m sorry, who was the first person?





R:  Dr. Paul Ortiz. He’s the Director of the program and he is collaborating with the African American Studies department. Miss Tamarra Jenkins, she is part of the program too.

M:   Will you spell her name?



	R:	T-A-M-A-R-R-A, J-E-N-K-I-N-S. And so those are like the three main people. I will say they are the ones that actually made more collaboration. I remember like during a couple of weeks ago, some members of the department of African American Studies that would come to SPOHP and they would come to our meeting just to see how the event was going to work out. So, there is that collaboration and collective solidarity working in groups and everybody being comfortable working together which I think is a great thing to do, just because you don’t see a lot of that happening around, collaboration between other departments like that and for a purpose of a symposium which empowers groups. Hopefully, we will keep working and doing future projects with them and other departments too.

	M:	I hope you do. Another question, do you have a particular goal when you started collaborating?

	R:	My goal, honestly, was just to see how useful I could be for the program, like what can I do with my skills that I have. Then I know much of what I could possibly offer but believe me, anybody could offer –as long as you are there, you are part of the group and you share ideas. Sharing of ideas, I think is critical to all these.





M:  From their side, do you think that the African Americans Studies Department people, they had a set goal? I mean, they do have their anniversary which is [Inaudible 22:18]

R:  Yeah. This symposium has been going on already for the past year. So, last year, there was another one, so, they were already looking forward to it.

M:   Do you know how many years?



	R:	I don’t know how long has it stemmed from to be honest. No, I do not know. But I do know that they’ve done in the past event. So every year, something new and this year, it was special because it marked the fiftieth anniversary. And they have great, amazing speakers coming from far away and I think that’s the reason why we do the oral histories, just because we wanna keep in touch with even people outside of the UF experience, once they graduate or once they move to another job. There is still that connection to the department of African Studies, so it’s not forgotten, it’s not just –. It was just a degree that I obtained from them, now this goes deeper than that. It goes through the activeness work, it goes through regaining the identity, regaining that control, not control, but something that has been taken away from them, you know, reclaiming the wrong space and that they are here. I mean, it is a little upsetting that the number side dropped from demographic slides from African American students at UF.

M:   Do you know how much in terms of percentage, or numbers?



	R:	It was not even that high. I think from, if I’m not mistaken – don’t quote me on this one. It was light from a five to like two to three percent. So, its like a two percent drop but it’s not even that many to begin with. So, whatever





representation and departments we do have going on at campus, it’s something we need to keep preserving and through events like this, hopefully that helps out.

	M:	You said that this has been happening for the last couple of years, do you know what changed in comparison with the last one?

	R:	I wasn’t there. I told you. Last I said I’ve been six months so I really can’t answer that question. I know we’ve improved on organization; organizing things that didn’t work out for last year. Particularly, we’ve been trying to like be more aware of those changes or even like the participation we’ve been having, like events like this, with the oral histories kind of like, being more attentive to that, kinda of like hey! Trying to ask people would you interview with us, try to get more of that representation to keep in out archives and use it in the future. And that’s one of many things from my side that I’ve been working on this, that I’ve seen improvement.

	M:	What has happened today from the very beginning in the morning ‘cause it began–? When did it begin? At nine?

	R:		At nine. It began at nine. It started at eight, like the continental breakfast, but then at nine, that was when it actually began. Well, what has happened? What do you mean by that?

	M:	The different events and conversations, panels, [Inaudible 25:29]



	R:	Oh, I do not have the list on me. I’ve been working on the outside, so I haven’t been inside, but there is a whole schedule of that; of alumni panels, the student panels, alumni students and people that – even professors that had been here





before, that started that department itself. There has been all types of people. We will have to look at the list.

	M:	Okay, I –



	R:	Everything should be there.



	M:	Have you seen a lot of participation?



	R:	I’ve seen a lot of people coming in, yes. I don’t know if it’s the same as last year.



I know it was expected to be about the same. Think there was like about one twenty-five, that’s not on reserve, that have reservations but obviously there is more people coming in as students.

	M:	And we come and leave.



	R:	Right. So, I wouldn’t be able to give you a number. That’s why we make people sign up when they come in just to keep a track, at least how many actually attended.

	M:	Right.



	R:	We have improved our marketing too, the way that we promote our events. M:	Yeah, I’ve seen it everywhere.

	R:	Everywhere. We’ve been working with different organizations, not just departments, like the libraries, the marketing teams, we’ve been trying to do as much as possible even outside of Gainesville, outside of the university itself, so community members could come in.

	M:	Have you had some community members, like a lot?



	R:	I would not say if they came in. I would have to look at the list, to be honest, to see who came in or not come in that is not a student affiliated.





	M:	But certainly the community outside of UF–



	R:	Yeah, we were big this year on community outreach. Community outreach has been definitely a go to.

	M:	And right now, what’s going on? And what are you planning to have tomorrow?



	R:	There is a part two to this. And it should be similar to what happened today but it ends a little earlier. But the event should continue.

	M:	Did you have a tour?



	R:	I am not prepared like I have not seen the schedule for the Friday event because I was planned working more towards the Thursday event so I can’t really give you that info. We could probably get you that information.

	M:	In terms of today?



	R:	In terms of today, what’s the question?



	M:	What’s happening right now and what’s going to be happening throughout –?



	R:	We are going to see in a couple of hours around five p.m. They are gonna show the IBC movie about like it began, the IBC House is right next to La Casita. And so that’s a whole different chapter, you know? They got broken down pretty much. They took them down, the houses that were there before and that was a space of solidarity. And now we don’t have that so now, we are rebuilding that and making it into –. Not like they rebuild it but they made it differently. Does it offer the same feel to it like before? I’m not sure because I wasn’t there before but a lot of people say it’s a different feel, it’s not the same anymore but still, that is something that—

	M:	Do you get more positive comments?





	R:	Yeah. It’s a space of solidarity though. It’s a space that is used to, you know, like I said about space, having a space to –

	M:	Having a place.



	R:	Having a place. Having like a home; a second home for yourself for people to just go in there and feel comfortable and just relax for the day and not feel like troubled or feel like they don’t fit in because this is for the community, this is for them. And anybody is welcomed, of course. It’s not that it’s just –but groups, they need their space, you know. But they are neighbors right to La Casita which I think that’s phenomenal and they should share the same back space as well. So they could interact.

	M:	That’s very cool. Is there any person you recommend me talking to?



	R:	Yeah. I would say Dr. Paul Ortiz or Ryan Morini and Tamarra Jenkins. They should be the three people.

	M:	Do you know anyone from the African American Department?



	R:	African American Department. There’s a couple of people I could probably guide you when I see them.

	M:	Okay. Do you have any more questions for me?



	R:	Yeah. Just to conclude this, I guess, we could keep talking but I would like to hear more about your point of view. So, you’ve been at UF for how long?

	M:	It’s been a semester and a half.



	R:	A semester and a half. How do you like it so far? Do you feel neglected? Do you feel like people keep give you what you need to space your– I’m not sure.





	M:	I’ve been happy, so far so good. As I mentioned, before coming here, I was in New Mexico at a boarding school so it’s been different in terms of size ‘cause back in New Mexico, it was just reverse, more close size community, probably, no more than three hundred people in total, including teachers and staff members. And we stick together, we study together, we do everything together. I think at some point, I got tired of not having space for myself. Of course, it ended then I applied to UF, got in, decided to come. And here, I like that I’m the one choosing whether I’m with people or not, like interacting or not, being an active member of the community or not. And I do like to be active. [Laughter] So, I felt like UF does offer a lot of space for people like me. It’s been hard with the Hispanic community. I’m not gonna lie. It’s been hard because I’ve been struggling a bit like connecting.

	R:	Is it because of the language barrier? Because, I mean, a lot of Latinos here, they do speak Spanish too.

	M:	No, I wouldn’t say language barrier ‘cause I know that I do have a language barrier ‘cause my English is not my native language but I think I can communicate alright so it’s more in a sense of I don’t want you to assume my story, if that makes sense.

	R:	Okay.



	M:	And I feel like there is this common idea of every Hispanic/Latino member of the community was, as I mentioned, either born or came here very little. And I can’t connect with that. So, that’s why but again, in general terms at UF, it’s been great. I love my classes. I like the way I can talk to my teachers, approach them. I





feel like whenever I needed help –. It’s a bit stressful in terms of the many channels we have to follow but you can get it. At first, I was super lost with regards to medical insurance. I’m Type-1 Diabetic and I had to figure out how to get my medicine if I was able to get it and not having to bring it from home. And I did because I talked to the right people. I asked who I should talk to and they guided me and right now, I’m fine. I know how things work, so it’s a process. So, for having been here for so little, I think it’s a great place.

	R:	Are you in any organizations at the moment?



	M:	I am part of NAHJ – National Association of Hispanic Journalist. I’m the treasurer of the chapter here at UF. And I’m also a volunteer with Samuel Proctor Oral History Program.

	R:	Great! We are glad to have you.



	M:	So, I’ve been transcribing interviews. I haven’t gotten the chance to interview people but I would love to.

	R:	I’m also part of an organization – CALLE It’s pretty much like Latin American Studies but we talk about issues and I’m a treasurer as well. That’s a big one too that we have going on here but anybody can join but it’s mainly right now, graduate students developing it.

	M:	Good. Can I ask something else? I mean, I go once in a while to Hispanic Communicators Associations in school. I’m involved with [Inaudible 34:14] ‘cause it’s my class and it’s also like a tiny community. We do everything that the news department does but in Spanish. So, we write readers for the radio show on Saturdays. We pitch stories. We put packages together. We interview people.





We have a show every week at 7:30 p.m, so we prepare for that. We have this segment called ‘[Inaudible 34:47] in ninety every day, five days a week which is the three most important news of the day in ninety seconds. It’s a little work but I think it’s worth it. The community is nice and we are very supportive. So, I enjoy that.

	R:	What would you like to do when you are done with your degree?



	M:	Tough question but I’m still debating. I don’t know if I wanted to minor in French or major in anthropology or both but definitely journalism. And with journalism, I think that – I’m still thinking of turning into an investigator of journalism; investigator of journalism with a non-profit organization. I do plan to start here in the United States and then hopefully, not so long, go back to Latin America and do something over there.

	R:	Okay. Do you have any last messages that you would like to leave for the next generation about the event or anything over out there that you would like to say?

	M:	I think that it’s important to invite people to this event, invite people to get to know the community, invite people to be diverse on giving them the chance to absolve that.

	R:	Okay. All right. Well, that’s my last question for you. I hope this interview has been great for you as it has been for us. We appreciate what you’ve done and we think that would conclude our interview for today.

	M:	Thank you.



	R:	Thank you.





[End of interview]



Transcribed by: Mosunmola Ogunmolaji, September 2, 2021 Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, September 7, 2021

Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, September 9, 2021