AAHP 708; Hill; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 708 Ned Hill Jr. 8-4-2019

Interviewed by Liana Zafran, Marissa Volk, Aishwarya Kunta on August 4, 2019

55 minutes | 22 pages



Abstract: In this interview, students with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program visit the Veterans of Foreign Wars chapter in Monticello, Florida, to interview Ned Hill, Jr, a Vietnam veteran and lifelong Monticello resident. Hill graduated from Howard Academy in Monticello, then briefly attended Suwannee River Junior College before beginning a mechanical program at Florida A&M. After his graduation from FAMU, Hill was drafted in September of 1967. He went to basic training in Sand Hill Fort Benning before taking AIT in Fort McClellan, Alabama. He returned to Fort Benning for airborne training before his deployment to Cameron Bay, Vietnam as a part of the 173rd Airborne Infantry. While in Vietnam, Hill primarily participated in search-and-destroy missions. In early November of 1968, after over a year in Vietnam, Hill was injured in combat and sent to California, where he worked as a troop instructor. He returned to Florida, working alongside his grandfather on the family farm in Tallahassee while searching for permanent employment. Hill remembers that racial discrimination made it incredibly difficult for him to secure a job, so he instead took to working contract labor building houses. He eventually secured a job at a mechanic service station in Tallahassee, where he faced suspicion and discrimination from his coworkers on the basis of race. In 2008, the company failed, leaving Hill unexpectedly jobless. After his service, Hill was diagnosed with post traumatic stress disorder and anxiety, which was compounded by his tendency to drink excessively. Hill began seeing a psychiatrist, attending church, and making regular visits to the VA for treatment, leading him down towards recovery and enabling him to help other veterans in similar circumstances.





Keywords: [Monticello, Florida, Black community, Vietnam War, veteran, mechanic, PTSD, military]



AAHP 708

Interviewee: Ned Hill Jr.

Interviewer: Liana Zafran, Aishwarya Kunta, Marissa Volk Date: August 4, 2019



	Z:	Hi my name is Liana Zafran and I’m here with… K:	Aishwarya Kunta.

	V:	Marissa Volk.



	Z:	with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program today is August 4th, 2019 and we are here interviewing…

	H:	Ned Hill Jr.



	Z:	In Monticello, Florida. H:	Monticello Florida, yes.

	Z:	Yeah so can you please tell us when and where you were born? H:	Born in Tampa, Florida, April the 5th, 1946.

	Z:	So maybe if you could tell us a little bit about your parents, their names? H:	Ned Hill Sr., my father. Anniter Hill, Williams- Hill, my mother.

	Z:	Is there any distinct memories you have from your childhood growing up in Tampa, maybe about the schools that you attended?

	H:	Well I was only born there and my parents moved back to Monticello and my real growing up was here in Monticello. Timothy Elementary School, Howard Academy High School here in Monticello, Jefferson County and after graduation went to Miami for a little minute and the Cuban crisis started and they told me I’ll be going to war so I got on the bus, came back to Monticello and enrolled in Junior- Suwannee River Junior College in Madison. And after two years there I was drafted- no- I wind up going to a mechanical program at Florida A&M. After I graduated from that Uncle Sam said you’ve been [inaudible at 1:45]. So I was





drafted in September [19]67. [19]67, [19]68 was my— [19]69 excuse me, was my military term. I took basic at Sand Hill Fort Benning. I took AIT at Fort McClellan, Alabama. I took jump school, airborne training back at Fort Benning and from there to Cameron Bay, Vietnam. Served with the 173rd Airborne Infantry, Vietnam and worked in the central highlands [inaudible at 2:19] and there with the infantry we search and destroy missions. I mean we dug foxholes even evening, torn them in the morning and we start our patrol. If we get hit during the night, we fight and then the next morning we teared our thing down, bury all of the canned goods, cans rather excuse me. Anything that the enemy might use against us and we were told we’d be in the field for thirty plus days and with that there was no bath, no hygienes and when you went in the country, into your platoon they would tell you, it smells awful but once you’re out there and your smell mix, it become common. I thought “Oh wow no bath, no hygiene, no brushed teeth, no nothing.” Same clothes but your focus is on your job and that’s fighting and searching for the enemy and that became a job. Monsson season you’re wet, miserable. It rained during the day, the heat is so hot it’s just like someone poured water on your head, your uniform is wet, soaked and at night it’s cool so we have a poncho right under the cover. We try to stay a little warm and you pulled guard duty for an hour, you rest, guard how many people on your position you rest for three hours. And after that the [inaudible at 4:03] the next morning to take your sandbags dump right back, pack up your backpack out on your mission. So that was a year plus there. November the 6th, 1968 I was wounded and scared ‘cause when I saw blood, scared me worse but God is





good. God is with me so he had something else that could bring me back here so that I could look at your smiling faces and take this interview. So after leaving Vietnam I came back to California for the war. I was an instructor, training troops to go to Vietnam and that training was tense. I was hard on them because no errors, no mistakes because when they go the men there was putting their trust, their life in their hands. So there were no sleeping in my class. I punished my class because I wanted them to look out for the troops that they were going to work with and protect. After that I was going to go to North Carolina but somehow the plane left set Washington and it landed in Tallahassee, Florida. So I was back home and we had the farm and my grandfather was working the farm. He never drove a truck, never drove a tractor. He did it with the mules so I [inaudible at 5:37] drive another tractor so I came back to help him. I did all of the work with the tractor that cut yeah and then our jobs. Trying to get a job, hard to get and if you get one the first day the cut you. If you talk to them on the phone they would say come on in but then when you get in they see that you has a different color skin and you wind up getting hired. I had a new car, my granddad and my uncle signed for me to get a new car, I had no job so I had to contract work. I did work on the farm for guys that didn’t want to I mean that had work for me. I worked with contractors that built house, pull them up, clean it up and that’s how I made my car payments for four months. Then when I wasn’t working I filled out applications, I filled out applications and like September [19]69 there was an ad on the paper said Tennessee and Monroe Street hiring so I couldn’t find it so I drove in and I asked the gentleman where was 202 East Tennessee Street, he





said this is it. I said you have an ad in the paper for applying for a job so. I applied, he said well we’re not hiring that position. I said but you’re running an ad. He pulled his file up so let me see all this, we have to go through this application and pull out an applicant and how. I said well if that’s the case why you have an ad on you? So I said I’ll tell you what give me an app and I’ll fill it out and he started talking to me and found out that I was back from Vietnam.

That I had made Sergeant in Vietnam that I was an instructor so he began to bend a little bit. So I filled my app, took it back to him and the [inaudible at 7:36] company district office was there and two weeks later they call me, call me for an interview. I politely, my [inaudible at 7:52] grandmother told me, she give me my phone calls, she says the people from they come on in and want to invest, okay. So I got in my suit and tie and went to apply at a [inaudible at 8:00] stationed for a job. I know my impression, my appearance was going to be my selling point and the way I left them, the guy talked to me at the station, they didn’t send me to the district office and interviewed there. They were impressed with my dress, my attitude, my person, my speech, you know and I was hired. Then you had to be- to keep the job you had to sell stuff. I knew nobody in Tallahassee but a bunch of broke student at Florida A&M, FSU, and the community college. I said most of them didn’t have cars so I did the best that I could, competed then it came up a time when there was a 8 track player missing off the desk, off of our display and who but who they thought stole it? Me. They pointed fingers at me.

What? One of the guys I’d spend working there with me said Ned wouldn’t do that so he told them to hold off, let me do some research. So he checked and





went to visit one of the other workers, he had the 8 track on his desk, on his table rather and with that and this kid was one of the big officials son, a score kid. So after that, that was one knock back, so I came and God opened the door for me again to stay there and move on and move- the station was leased out to a gentleman came from St. Petersburg. They told me what they wanted to do and everybody told me about going back to school, getting my other two years. I said okay, okay, okay but after talking to them and they gave me their plans was to go into a corporation and have managers that run the stores, the stations and be taken in as partners. So after three years, seventy-three hours moved to the first outlet in [inaudible at 10:18] worked there. They had a number of managers but I was overlooked, overlooked because of- but I was determined. Lord continue to bless me, open doors and I knew at the right time he would open that door and after being there, there was other managers coming but I still wasn’t moved but I was doing all the work and this station was change oil, tires, a full service station back of the cars, windows and all that stuff. You all are too young to know but anyway we in [19]67 that it so I’m skipping to [19]77 I was taken in as a partner and so to compete with- by that time they had gone to like four stations and for me knowing that I couldn’t just do work. I had to do my work twice as good as the other group and so when we had company meetings I did my work and at the meeting I made notes. What the short come of the other managers and I figured how can I improve what their mistakes or what they wasn’t doing and they slack now- I was getting a good reading. I was getting a good report but to improve that report that the president of the company sent down then these other manager





what are they falling short and then I make my little notes and then I go and study them and by the next company meeting I’ve capitalized on their errors, their mistakes and I’ll be at this service station from December [19]69 that was company office June of [19]70 and then from that point once the guys [inaudible at 12:13] came from St. Pete and I worked at the downtown from [20]07 to December [20]08. The oil companies, the environmental laws and all that start rising and thought I’ll be there until retirement but with the cost and expense then we had to sell out and after that I became oh what am I gonna do and I’m used to going on. I get up early in the morning like I’m going to work, go down the street to the station, get me some coffee and then I go over to another station that once we closed most of the customers went to and I’ll go there and they’ll just greet me. Hey Ned! How you doing? I’ll just talk to them and drink my coffee and I’ll just ride, find something to do but you know being blessed. Being blessed and God took care of me, had the road [inaudible at 12:16] and when I became sixty- six and they say you got to sign up for social security I think, I said “I’m too young.” The law says you got to sign up so okay. So I went down to the social security office, signed up and got my little lecture on that and sure enough, December [20]08 was— after that I still was trying to hang but- signed up for social security, never had to. My VA I’d sign up for VA get medical treatment. I had outside doctors but I tried to get into the VA and with my situation when I first came home from Vietnam I didn’t know what was wrong with me. I would go to work early, I’ll stay late, I’ll take paperwork home to do. I will wake up at 1:30, 2 o’ clock and sometimes I’d toss and turn, toss and turn and then it came to the point





of I would fight in my sleep and then I’d wake up, I’d go to work hours early I’d just toss and turn. Then I got to the point saying if I have to fight and turn, get up and read some scriptures and have a prayer and I would do that but then sometimes I’ll be so tired, lazy and won’t get up and do it then I just toss and turn but I found out when I do get up I read some scriptures and I pray then I can go back and go to sleep. I can rest and with that I will say that I was told oh you’re shell shock, you’re crazy and I laugh a lot, kid around a lot and then the guys that are working across the street in the area when they get off at 5 sometimes I’m still at the station because it’s too much time. I can go home, back to wife and back to kids so we’re sitting Jack Blinkers was down the street on the next block. When I was in high school I never drank but after coming from Vietnam I started my little sip, started my sip and then I had to drink, I’d put coke in it I couldn’t stand that alcohol bad taste. So after that I drank and I drank and then in 2000 I just stopped and then I now I drink some wine if you all are sitting around [inaudible at 16:04] got some wine, drink that and-but I wound up after work so my wife got my brother he’s a DV and took him to the VA to try to get for some help and I went and the first time they had me see a social worker so I said a social worker? There ain’t nothing wrong with me but after talking to her I was a naughty boy at that time. I said some things I shouldn’t have said and so I went home. I didn’t go back and then my situation of fighting at night- the enemy comes in the room and I’ll jump out the bed on the night stand and destroy it.

There were times where I would go into it. I could [inaudible at 16:59] ‘cause I’m fighting. They took me back to the VA and I had to go to the same social worker.





I said ma’am I owe you an apology. I said I showed myself a little bit when I came before and she’s like I understand I deal with troops all the time. I said yes ma’am thank you and then I was assigned to psychic and with that believe it or not, going to church, working in the church, and helping people was a great deal and once I start with her she start working my situation and later find out she classified that I had a bad case of PTSD, anxiety, depress- PTSD. So she gave me treatment for it and she kept saying you need to go to the vet center. Vet center? I ain’t going to the vet center. Then I’d go back there and said Ned have you gone to the vet center, they have people that can work with you and give you therapy. So finally, no let me back up, you know years the vet center used to be where I worked, just a few blocks up. I’d pass, I’d look at the sign I said, “I’m going in,” and as pass by, I ain’t got time but I’m going and I did that for years.

Then it moved down the street from me, another few blocks was the new location. Hearing McKinney, he’d pass by when I’d be at work. Hey c’mon c’mon round to the vet center. Finally I went and believe it or not going to church, God had it all at the church, seeing the psychiatrist and start going to the vet center and getting help counseling and I still use all of those now and I am guess one of their students- well not students they call me a client- one of their clients and I go but then one of the counselors told me that they- it was a blessing that I had come. I strengthen my input with the other clients, that helps them, it strengthens them, and so I go back to my counseling at the vet center on the 29th and if I don’t have an appointment I go by. Drink coffee, talk to them, clients coming in, I talk to them and sometimes the guys are really you know and talking and sharing





your experience with them it helps them, it helps them really. I have a thing about helping people and when I was working and people come in if they need gas I’d pay for them. Car repair, they don’t have the money, lord always showed me a way how to do it and I’ll fix the car. Students going home, check the car for trip, tires wore out dangerly, I’d put tires on them and send them home. We’ll come back when we come back after break we’ll be by, some do, some don’t but I can’t give an attitude so I have to exhale [inaudible at 20:34] Jesus and lord I know you’ve been blessing me, you’ve made it available that I was able to do it. People come off the interstate, I was three miles in from the interstate and the stations off the interstate people break down people need help and serious help. They don’t have money, they don’t have food, they don’t have gas, they got a flat tire and as they go in three miles to see a BP station on main go in and ask for Ned. So they were funny and when I get bonuses I put extra money aside so that these people I can help. If they were hungry, I’d buy them food. One instance I working I went outside in the garage I sat down at my desk, open up my box, had a gentleman come in, can I have a drink of your cold water? I said yes sir. I said here sir take my lunch and I polite went inside and gathered a bottle of cold drink of- a bottle of soda, gave it to him and he thanked me for it. People that [inaudible at 21:45] put tires on them and some of them- what gives you the

drive- those that get to their destination and they send a card back saying thank you you were just an angel that God had along the way that lent a helping hand. We made it safely and we thank you and may God bless you. A number of instances like that, there are times people got kids and I know I get that feeling





they need help and I ‘ve gone by the house and they’ll open the box it’s nothing but empty shelves. Up the street from the station was a meat house and they had these different groups of meats how’d they sell them. I’d go up and I’d buy a big bag of chicken, I’d buy cut up quarters and all that stuff. I would buy sausage, I’d buy stuff that they do it then I’d buy something to drink and to see the face on the parents of the kids when the box go form empty to full, blessings form God.

Blessings. And I’ve done that and then Ned my lights is off, I need help. Then what I’d do, go get some money, give it to them so they can turn their lights back on. If they need food go give them some money, oh I’ll pick up something and they come by the station, pick it up and those are things that I enjoy doing. I still enjoy helping but my- after not working but I don’t even know how much money I have coming ‘cause when I was working it went to the bank. She pays the bills, she does this and then I had bonuses and I’d do what I wanted but when [inaudible at 24:00] but I can go with no funds but my truck’s still going, it has gas, if I want something to eat, I can get it and bless. So the same thing at church, people call in- we’re in the country, off that small chicken- people call in, need help? The give for mission fund, the benevolence, whatever name you have on it and write a check, they help them. We were leaving church one day and going out the phone ring. Here’s a young lady crying out for help she’s going to be evicted. She needed four hundred dollars to stop form being evicted then some of the guys said well how do we know that she is la la la I said look well we’ll call first so she had us talk to the manager of the apartment complex issue, she’s gonna be evicted if she don’t come up with this so wrote the check, had the





manager to hold up we have someone in so we go write the check for four hundred, ask someone to drop it off to the apartment complex. We’re all a blessing to be a blessing to someone else. You might not think that you have what you want the way you want even in your classes but but you have to stand strong and move forward and realize where you are, count your blessings and thank God that you are where you are. You have an opportunity to improve yourself, it might mean going to the library, open one more book to receive the information needed or you might have that mind that says “Hmph, I ain’t got time I think I could go down and be with the girls.” They said they’re going over- you know that sound much easier and more fun even if [inaudible at 26:14] but then after you leave that class, oh I should have, I wish I had. That one book stayed closed all I had to do was open up and get that info, helping yourself and have people watching you wants to be where you are, wants to get your grades but you lift them up when they see the joy in you. That you’re not down and out, that you’re smiling, that you have that joy and the smile sometimes that’s a person need is a smile that will lift them up. A kind word, not to talk negative because they are not doing what they should do or they are not where they need to be or because they have the same clothes that they had on two days ago. That’s what’s the solution to this and that is to go in and help that person because God has already blessed you and some of you have clothes that you haven’t even worn. That some of them I worn once, shoes, I can’t lie I have work shoes and shoes for church and now got shoes- just cowboy boots, cowboy hat but you know smile help someone. Smile smile smile and then laughter but be for real





because you don’t want to hurt that person or push them deeper in the hole. I go to church with jeans. I go to church with whatever. I go to church with my work shoes on. Now I’m probably scuffed and sometimes people look at me they think I’m screaming but I smile and I go on. I’ve left work and told guys I said look he got [inaudible at 28:15] at church. I left church don’t have- didn’t have time to change ‘cause and I went in my work clothes and I walked in and all these people dressed up. I came in and everybody was looking at me, I just smiled and the young man that invited me he says I saw you all were looking at this young man when he came in, in his work clothes and everybody in their suits and dresses and hats and all that. He says but the thing was he gave his word that he would come. He did not let work or his clothes stop him. He said guys that comes from the heart. If you got that love in your heart. Love is powerful. Love heals. Love uplifts you and that’s what— y’all are young you got a lot of growing. You got a lot of holes to go through. Trials, they will come. Storms, they will come but when you get through those and look back and say nobody brought me but the Lord and you realize how blessed you are. Maybe I got off on the wrong track but.

	K:	No there is no wrong track.



Z:  Thank you that was very comprehensive. Actually there were a couple of things that you were saying while you were discussing your life and you seem to have experienced a lot of I guess discrimination when you’re going for work and stuff. Is there any advice you would give to young people who have similar issues that





you did in the past looking for work like how would you- what did you do to get through a lot of that that you think young people today would benefit off of?

	H:	I had to take a lot of beatings and with that you can’t get an attitude because that person is rotten and have a nasty attitude or they curse you out or they call you names. Now sure the flesh gon’ ‘cause you to bubble up and wants to put wood on the fire but you’ve become, you smile and you let them do their little say ad you just keep moving on. I found myself in situations, one instance that a Saturday morning I had this mechanic that was from a rural town further over.

This particular Saturday, morning he brought his grandson with him and the kid, the young man was saying “Sir, yes sir, thank you sir, I appreciate it,” and the grandfather heard that, he went off. “You don’t say no yes sir, no sir to no da da nig—,” and he went off. I made an error that particular time. I told him say son I don’t know who taught you or who’s giving you lessons, continue to be respectful, continue you’ll go a long way. Pops was da da da and then when I looked at it the kid would look up to me when I was talking, he would look up at his grandad when he was talking and I came to my senses and realized he had two old [inaudible at 31:39] talking and the person that’s getting hurt is the kid. He’s trying to do what’s right but he got this negative response over here so after that that line that ain’t what you supposed to do. If you want to complement the kid let him when he go in the store to get something give him the encouraging words to continue because he’s gon’ have that if he keep going and even at work I’ve had people been sent there. They come in looking for Ned, they pass by me, “I’m looking for Ned”. I said “May I help you?” “I’m looking for Ned,” and they





keep walking and they go on in the store and they’re looking for someone with a lighter complexion than I am. So I said, they are gonna have to come back to me so I sit there at my desk and I smile and they come in, “Oh you Ned?” Said “Yes Sir I am, may I help you?” I keep my smile and I advise them, I help them and then when they leave I thank them with a smile. I’ve had some ugly situations and to advise the young people, young people, not all but a percentage, they will cop an attitude if someone pinched them. If someone stepped on their toe. If someone bump into them. They would flip, stay calm, smile, and go on because you’re gonna overcome this hurl and if you keep going you’re going to run into more but when you learn how to deal with situations like that you can as they say climb mountains in life. A lot of young people they don’t want a job. They want the money but not a job then it’s not enough money. I had a young man tell me at work I said check the bathroom make sure there’s no one that’s gone in, dropped paper on the floor, splashed water on the mirror, make sure it’s clean for customers to come in. The customer come in you got a clean bathroom then and so he looks at me, that’s not in my tax bracket. I said what? That’s not in my tax bracket. I’m going to school to be a lawyer, I said son I’ll tell you what you got to crawl before you become that. You got to go through a lot of hurls and your tax bracket sometimes might be lower but someone just got to help you along the way. So others coming in want a job, their appearance, their attitude is just- and I’ve seen them come in, they talk to someone and I’ll listen and watch. Then sometime I walk out behind them, I said look you want a job. First of all you ask for the application and you gon’ bring it back, your attitude, your personality, their





gonna be your top sellers. Most people- you come in like you’re or like dry and all this stuff no- nonchalant, no attitude, that paper when it comes in it goes in the trash. They write on it not good and person that comes in that has a good attitude, their appearance is good, I make a note, looks good and be the one that I call when I need someone. I need to have an open and they’ll tell you what if you need help call me I’ll be ready and I’ll do this, I’ll do that and some will say that and don’t but it’s young people again. Biggest- one of the biggest things is first you got to have it in here. You got to have that love and care but if you bother with anger and hate. If someone says something to you, you gon’ bite their neck off you got to shake it and my thing I tell all my people even that were working I said when you’re balling up, you wanna chomp that person’s head off, exhale the flesh, inhale Jesus. When you exhale the flesh you exhaling stale air, which is negative. You can’t use it anymore. But when Jesus open up and breath that fresh air when it comes out he has the Holy Spirit guiding and leading you and you can achieve or accomplish anything that’s before you. The naysayers, the bad people, you can smile and let it go. People used to tell me at work, customers would come in, Ned where’s that smile? I was sick I was feeling a little bad and they come Ned, what’s wrong with you? Where’s that smile? I was having a bad day and when I left home I said if I go by the station, if I see Ned there. If I see that smile I know I will have a better day. So when I was sick, when I was at my lowest point I always have a smile and greet every customer with a love that they could feel not- so you have to let that love come out and it’s so much about work habits about young people and some old people with bad





attitudes. Think the world owe them everything, that don’t want to work to get there. If they come in their office they want top dollar well she’s getting hers why I can’t get that? Well come in, start working and learn the habits that she’s using to grow to get to where she’s at. Why is she getting more money than me? Well watch her work and learn some of the things she’s doing and you learn your job. You learn what the job requires and when you do it let your work speak for you.

Let your work cover that bad attitude you have. Let your work let you know that what you’re doing now, the money will come. If it don’t come to the point that the max that you want on that particular job what it does is open a door so that you can get somewhere else and move. Flipping a hamburger at McDonald’s. I don’t want to flip no hamburger, I ain’t gon’ do that. Well if you flip them and learn the job and learn how to cook them and learn what the customers want. Smile and greet the customer then you can go all the way up the chain to ownership, go to management next thing you own, next thing you got another one, you got a chain. The right attitude, the right personality, the right appearance will take you a long way in life and when younger people learn that they’ll be surprised how they can escalate how they can grow. Same thing in school. If you want the girl in school, you want to be the best in that class you can’t go into class when you’ve been partying all night and then go to the library and you took your books home and just threw them on the table- Ima get to that later. Then somebody come, hey man they on the block, can’t you hear the music and then the next morning you’re attitude done got worse. Grumpy, but if you taking the other approach, first I’m in this class. It’s expensive, and now buying the book you got to pay for a





code, you got to pay for this and that. Expensive. Then they give you so much time to get the work done that if not that thing they cut you off so you got to manage your time. You got to you know so young people you’re that light to help someone so when you go back you just look and so oh. Some people you can’t help, some people will chop your head off but you got to be able to snuff it up and go on. Everybody smiling at your face ain’t your friend, some is there to destroy you because they don’t like what you have achieved or what your accomplishments are. So you have such [inaudible at 40:57] and that’s very important and brought me form a long way. Took me to Vietnam, I’m now pushing at seventy-four next birthday. You know I’m seventy-three now so when I get there I start working on the next one. How old are you? Seventy-four. You seventy-three? I said yeah the seventy-three that date gone so this I’m chopping on seventy-four. So you know if God can take me through the misery, the suffering of Vietnam, the agony to be where I fight the way I do at night. Some nights are good but [inaudible at 41:48] she has to wake me up when I go into it, catch my t-shirt, shakes me, but she’s a blessing because when I wake the next morning she has to go to work. I’m tired and beat from fighting, she’s tired and run down from trying to keep me, pull me back in. So you know that has to be a blessing from the Lord ‘cause a lot of females done kick you to the curb and go on but life is great and it’s what you make of it. Let nothing get you down. Stand tall, walk and then there’s somebody who look how she walk look how tall, look at that smile, I want some of that. I wonder how did she get to achieve it. How did





he accomplish that? You’re a blessing to be a blessing to someone else. Anymore questions? Or did I answer all of that?

	Z:	You definitely answered that one and then your wife played a huge role in your life ad your recovery too, can you expand a little bit more on that?

	H:	Well she- I look at others that are military that are non-military that working but they have issues also and I look at other people and I watch then and I try to figure out, what’s the positive side of that? What’s the solution to that? How can I be better than they are? How can I achieve? And like I said earlier my thing was to be- do my work, let my work speak for me, do it twice as good as the next person and with my wife she- I spent up days, down days but she’s always been by my side and the kids were all- got to go to tee ball, got to go to this. They got to go to the cub scouts, they got run here. She work all day, I’m on this job, sometimes I break and go but she picks up all that slack. Then she got to come home and cook. Then she got to come home and deal with the kids. The man and I speak from me to think they gon come in some of us go hit the TV. Some of us go do what they want to do but she still got all the tasks. Then the other thing is she got to work and then like my wife was- she would take classes and she did that with her BS and she went on to finish, she got a masters but and I look back sometimes and say wow God is with her to have here to be there to deal with all that. I’m going through all these changes, not knowing what’s wrong with me. Go to work early and I should be home getting a little rest to go to work, stay at work late when I could be home helping out with the kids or helping out and she doing all of that then her work. Now she got classes to do,





the cooking, the kids got their this their that and with her and my PTSD, my stuff she was already dealing with it before because when I have a bad nightmare she had to learn how to deal with it. And what she had to do is learn not to get caught in the middle of it so she’d get hurt and she’s- I told the church I said all of the medals that I have from Vietnam, Purple Heart, Bronze Star, Air Medal Combat, all that stuff I said she needs to be pinned with these medals ‘cause she’s in a war zone with me learning how to deal with my situations and if I start getting wild turning she grab me in the t-shirt, she pull it and she call my name and the next morning I don’t remember none of it you know. She tells me what I did and what happened. For her to do all of that and stick with me instead of coming home changing the locks or having the sheriff department saying you can’t go in anymore, she’s always been there. Still love and just the other night I went into an episode, she grabbed me and when she did that she asked me “Did you remember?” Said, “You’re talking about pulling guard duty, you talking war stuff but she’s still there.” Coming here this morning she’s going to church said I’ll go John said he needs something I’ll help him in the kitchen. So she says call John tell him I’ll come, I’ll help and there she is. She likes- no she loves football. There was a time I wouldn’t go I’d work then it got to a time the kids- I’ll send them off I work oh Lord but then when I woke up one day and started going with them and I start enjoying I start relaxing. I don’t let football, don’t let nobody stress me. I heard you got— no I’m enjoying for me. Y’all want to yell because the quarterback dropped the ball or because the man didn’t catch the ball. You can sit there and coach from the stand all you want Ima be calm, you ain’t gonna





stress me out and I’m not gonna let this game stress me out and I’m not gonna let none of y’all do it. I’ve come to enjoy and have a good time, that’s what I’m doing and one thing about it. If I’m at the game when they score and they shoot the cannon, I cannot take it. She tried to prepare me for it but when it go off I’m taking cover and she have to hold me ‘cause if somebody sitting next to me when I go take cover and I swing. I was not in my seat last year, I had moved up and this lady and her husband sat beside- I had to move up sitting beside them. That cannon went off and when I swung I caught I said oh Lord I said excuse me. You better get him ‘cause the next time Ima kill him but if you’re in my reach I’m swinging and if you come up behind me unannounced I’m swinging. But my wife she’s great she’s super and I pin her with all of those medals that they gave me in Vietnam and she’s there. She’s my everything- well almost.

	Z:	What is your wife’s name?



	H:	Caroline. Caroline. Caroline K. Hill. Yeah she’s from Ocala. I tell her about it, I said I came from Vietnam. I was looking for a companion. I was looking for a wife soon. I took an ad out in the newspaper, I said country farm boy looking for a wife. Looking for a good woman that must know how to cook and I gave some other thing that she had to do and she gets on [inaudible at 50:15]. I said I took out an ad in the newspaper looking for- country boy looking for a country girl she must know how to cook, she must do this, she must want to do this, she must take care of this and she don’t like me telling that story. I tell some different stories to aggravate her sometimes but to other people get laughter off of it. I get laughter myself but yeah she’s good and she takes care of me and she’s a





blessing, we have our ups and downs you know but through it all. She told me the other day something, oh I said something but- and she says something then when she tell people I spent all these years training him I ain’t got time to train another one so Ima keep him. Any more?

	Z:	I think that’s all I have.



	K:	Is there anything else that you’d like to share?



	H:	I don’t know you know my memory is something that’s out of sequence now and I count my blessings every day. I can read- last night I was at a Purple Heart banquet and I took two glasses but the glasses [inaudible at 52:04] words and I got one line that I had that I put a little notation under it so when I finish that statement I come back I know where to hook to the right line. Well when I got back there my eyes did something, I missed the line I was supposed to been on and I was down on that side and then when I realize it I was repeating the line that- so my memory shakes me sometimes like talking I could think of things but after a while it’s gone and what we first you said when you ask more questions or you stop talking about then a little bit, little tid bits will come so make the best of it. Love, love, love. You hope for tomorrow but you must have strong faith that you can achieve and grow to the bottom. Hope, I hope I can go out that door, get in the car. I hope. But it’s gonna take love and it’s going to take faith. The word says faith is the size of a mustard seed but you can’t stay there. If you want to grow and mature with it that mustard see grows to be a big tree so in your life I hope but you got to have love and you have strong faith and when that faith grow you can achieve. I hope I can pass this exam tomorrow, I hope I can. We left this





morning we got to go to Tallahassee then tomorrow oh I got this exam coming and all this time I spent I haven’t finished it. [Inaudible at 54:09] I hope I get back in time, I hope I’m prepared but you gotta have strong faith that it’s there. Faith grows just like the mustard seed to a big sprung tree. Your faith has to grow with your hope to achieve and accomplish. To do it, faith, not the mustard seed but the growth. You can be a lifetime college student and still be a freshman and hope I can be a sophomore, I hope I can graduate but you gotta have that faith. Love and you gotta have strong faith, faith grows and then it progress. Anything else?

	Z:	Thank you so much for joining us today. H:	I’ve enjoyed it, thank you all. Appreciate it.





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Amanda Lorenzo, November 12, 2019 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, April 28, 2020

	Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 26, 2021