AAHP 389; Chestnut III; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 389 Charles Chestnut III

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Justin Dunnavant, Justin Hosbey, and Ryan Morini on August 11, 2015

1 hour, 15 minutes | 30 pages



Abstract: Mr. Charles Chestnut is being interviewed by Justin Dunnavant, Justin Hosbey, and Ryan Morini in Gainesville, Florida on August 11, 2015. The interview begins with a discussion of Mr. Chestnut’s mortuary education in the North and his subsequent return to the South, to Gainesville where he grew up. Mr. Chestnut then describes the race relations in Gainesville and his involvement in “testing” lunch counters in town. Mr.

Chestnut helped form the NAACP Youth Council in Gainesville. There is conversation about local churches’ role in the Movement. Mr. Chestnut discusses the negative economic impact on local Black communities resulting from integration and zoning.



Keywords: Gainesville; integration; University of Florida; Virgil Hawkins; segregation; NAACP; Civil Rights Movement; Mt. Carmel Baptist Church; zoning; railroad











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 389

Interviewee: Charles Chestnut III

Interviewers: Justin Dunnavant, Justin Hosbey, Ryan Morini Date: August 11, 2015



	C:	This district basically kind of started at 3rd Street, was Seminary Lane at that time; then, it was changed to 5th Avenue. And—

	H:	Well, for the record, could you maybe introduce yourself? And then, we’ll do the introductions.

	C:	Oh, yeah. Charles S. Chestnut the 3rd. Resident of Gainesville, FL, born and cornbread-fed here. [Laughter]

	H:	I’m Justin Hosbey. D:	Justin Dunnavant.

	M:	And Ryan Morini. Thanks for joining us today. We appreciate it. C:	Thanks for being here.

	D:	Today is August 11th, 2015.



	C:	Okay. As I said, they got a business district, and I think Larry’s probably gone through most of that. It started there, and the last business that was there was Y.T.’s barbecue pit, right probably a block and a half down from 13th Street or MLK Jr. Drive as somebody wants to say—they got a little sign there that says that. From the integrational standpoint, that basically started in that part of [19]61, going into [19]62. And what basically happened was that my father died, and 1959 I was in college, and I had to leave college when I entered my sophomore year because my family had a meeting and I had to go mortuary school in Philadelphia. And that’s when I really saw change: between Alachua County and Gainesville, and Philadelphia. So, I graduated from there in 1961, and when I came back here, what I found is what I left here, in that particular sense. And so





at that point, that was just unbearable for me. There was no way I could deal with it anymore. And two guys—one was named Brackie Rice and one was named Roger Richmond—Roger had an experience in the North, because his father was a minister, and he lived in Virginia as he grew up. And he could see, because he came down every summer to be with his grandparents—his grandparents lived right down the street, here. And so, anyway, we started at that particular time going uptown to lunch counters. And every drugstore had a lunch counter in it at that time. And they would have sandwiches and cold drinks, and stuff like that.

And they had little stools around a little island there, you know. So we decided, “Hey, let’s go up and see if we can get something to eat and get a drink,” something like that. And that kind of kicked it off. Because everything at that time was right downtown. This is—basically Main Street and [inaudible 3:16] we called old Gainesville. The African [American] community lived this side of Main, and European American lived the other side of Main. So, that’s what we started doing, to the extent that all of the little lunch counters there took the stools, took the tops, and that stuff was anchored in the concrete, so they couldn’t take that out. [Laughter] But they could take the tops off. And that kind of started it, and then the word kind of, you know, drifted out into the community—there’s no question about, White community. It drifted out, and it just kind of kept on going from that particular point until we kind of pushed things a little bit further to the extent that we all started getting arrested, you know? And at that time, the NAACP national office found out about it, and then Bob Sanders out of Tampa was the field director for the South, and Bob Sanders came up and organized us.





Well, there was an adult chapter here at that time, but unfortunately, they just, you know, just weren’t doing anything. Mostly, it consisted of ministers, and things of that particular nature. And so, Bob came in, and found out that there was no NAACP Youth Council here. So, he got together with the national office, and set up the NAACP Youth Council. And then, when that happened, that’s when we really had some backing. They—a lawyer over in Jacksonville, Earl Johnson. And, he got Earl Johnson to be our attorney if something came up, or if something would happen. We basically started, there were only men, and then, the African American community got involved. And primarily, it was the younger children who got involved. And, at that point in time, they felt, “Well we got to support our children.” So, then the kids started joining the Youth Council and everything; we started picketing; started having walk-ins, and all that other kind of stuff. Whatever was necessary to be done. It kept progressing at that point, kept progressing at that point, and then finally, we took a look at the University of Florida. And said, “Ah!” Because Virgil Hawkins, who was one of my instructors down at Bethune-Cookman, had applied to the law school up here. And—“Yeah, I don’t know!” Yeah, that wasn’t happening, anyway. [Laughter] But, so, the history was kind of deep in terms of the university. And then we realized that they had the College Inn, which was right there on 13th Street. So, we said, “Hey, we done been all to the drug stores and everything else uptown, but we ain’t been to the College Inn!” You know? So, we went to the College Inn. And we went in.

Okay, well, they kicked us out. Okay, fine. So, we sat down and came up with a strategy that, what I would do—because at that point in time, complexion had a





lot to do with it. And they had some foreign students at the University of Florida. So I said, “I think we got to work on that.” So I just went in, went through the line, got service, and sat down and started eating. And then we had Brackie to come in. So Brackie came in; he didn’t go to the line, he came over there and sat with me. And they came over here and ask him to leave. Boy, did that start some hell! And then they called the police, and all that kind of stuff. So, those were the kinds of things we were doing. Basically, we dealing with public accommodations.

There were African Americans here, there were African Americans working in the restaurants at these places, and the sandwich shops at these places and everything. But you had to go to the back door: if you were Black, you had to go to the back door to get service. Well, that’s the biggest mistake we made.

Because, see, we would go to the back door, order a hamburger and get two hamburgers; order fries and get three orders of fries, things like that. [Laughter] Just—hey, hey! Yeah, you know. People at the back door were taking care of us. And then, once we integrated, all that shit cut out! [Laughter] And all of that.

There’s where we—we only made one big mistake at that particular point in time, doing that. But then, the demonstrations, and then we would get these young kids, man, and they would shut down businesses. I mean, right—we just marching on the sidewalk there on 13th Street, just shut ‘em down. People were scared to come in. They had some of these drive-in things—kind of like Sonic, back in that day, you know. We had the right to the sidewalk, so you had to wait in the street ‘til you could turn in—if we gave you a break in the line. [Laughter] Then they got mad, because those people that got into the restaurant—and they





all had windows around them, you know—they, the White people sitting there drinking coffee and just looking at us. [Laughter] They wouldn’t order no food, they wasn’t til they passed it. So, it became an economical impact on the businesses, and I always give Byron Wynn, who was the mayor of the City of Gainesville at that time, and he—well, they had been working on some of the older businessmen on 5th Avenue, trying to get them to—“Can’t you handle these young Black folks? Can’t you kind of settle them down?” And you know, and that other kind—that wasn’t working. That wasn’t working at all. So anyway, Byron went and set up a biracial committee with some of the old White citizens and one or two Blacks on the committee—those were those ministers we were talking about that had not quite grown enough to get with the Youth Council. So we just started raising sand about that. “Hey, I might going have it who got, but there’s nobody—we the ones out here in the street causing hell. You have not put anybody off of the Youth Council on the Biracial Committee. So, Byron finally realized what he’d done on that hand—sought to do that. He had a business right there on University Avenue, diagonally across from what used to be the Florida Theatre, and his business dried up. He ended up moving down to St. Petersburg, and that’s where he ended up dying later on in life. But that kind of kicked it off; the only other thing that we probably went through was that most of the White folks lived in the south, west side of Gainesville. The only you really had was either uptown—courthouse, City Hall was up there—and Alachua General Hospital, was one of the major employers at that time. The university was just in its infant stages of really growing. But then, anyway, to get from that side of town





over to where the jobs were, they had to come through the community. And then, after the young folks, an element that were part of it, but they really weren’t that active in the NAACP Youth Council. But they started rocking the cause. And of course, that had an impact. And then, that led up to the White businesses on Seminary Lane on 5th Avenue at that time, and a couple of them got bombed.

And it was Plemp cleaners, right there on the corner of 10th and 5th Avenue, got burned and everything. But then, that kind of woke up the community—I mean, Black and White: “Hey, hey, hey, hey! Something’s got to give, something’s got to change. This situation is getting”—basically, getting out of hand. And the last- ditch effort that they had was that they charged me with “contributing to delinquency of minors.” You know, big deal! [Laughter] I’m eighteen years of age; in that day, you had to be twenty-one to get grown. And here I’m “contributing to delinquency of minors!” I ain’t full grown yet—but you know. [Laughter] But anyway, and that was the first time we had gotten to a point where we had to go to court. And then their minds were completely blown when Earl Johnson stepped up there. Very intelligent. Very articulate. Guy had a very—like a baritone kind of voice, and that kind of thing. And that just, that judge didn’t know what to do. Back in them days, judge wasn’t appointed by nobody. You ran for public office, and you were the county judge. That’s—that take care of that little bit, you know. But that broke down some things, basically because they really found out: “There’s nothing we could do.” And then, that’s when we moved from that point, after the Hotel-Motel Restaurant Association—under Byron Wynn’s leadership—just said, “Okay. All right.” And that basically was public





accommodations that integrated, you know, at first. And then, after that, Reverend T.A. Wright came here, who was pastor at Mt. Carmel Baptist Church. And we had been over at Saint Augustine a couple of times; we had one incident over there where we went over to a mass meeting, and Dr. Hayling was the president of the NAACP over there. And we were going over. At that time, we had kind of grown, in the sense that we had White students then who had joined. A couple of them in the law school, a couple of them right there at University of Florida, who had joined NAACP Youth Council and were very helpful to us in the organizing, and of the running of everything that we were doing. Anyway, old Brackie and myself then and two other students went over there with us. We went to the Mass Meeting and everything. On the way coming out of St.

Augustine, we got pulled over by the man. And we pulled over, pulled over. Wasn’t speeding, wasn’t no pot-smoking, wasn’t no drinking, wasn’t no nothing, you know. We were clean as a whistle. But then, they arrested them. Let Brackie and I go. So, we called Earl Johnson that night before we got back to Gainesville, told him what had happened and everything, and he was down the next day. Got them released and everything. Because there was no charges. There was just no valid charge, other than them being White with two Black guys in a car. [Laughter] But then, and after we went through all of that with the Movement in itself, and the public accommodations thing, then they had just built Lincoln High School, the new Lincoln High School. The old Lincoln High School is still down there now. They spent over nine hundred thousand dollars building that. Then, at that point, we shifted to education. And we went to the school board, back and





forth to the school board. Then Reverend Wright came to town, and that kind of helped them—Reverend Wright kind of helped pull the ministers together. So now, one of them, one of the ministers—I got a paper to my attention that the church that I belonged to, Mt. Pleasant United Methodist Church—well, Mt.

Pleasant Methodist Episcopal Church, at that time; it wasn’t united because Black and White churches jointly united later—but, Reverend W. M. Ferguson, who was a pastor of Mt. Pleasant, he was the first church to let us have mass marches, and mass demonstrations, and mass meetings at that church. And that was the first church that would accept us as group and an organization, I would say, at that point in time. But then, after that, after Wright and all that, other churches started getting into the Movement. Well, basically, they kind of had to because all of they young peoples were a part of the Movement. But then, we went with the educational system, and the superintendent who—Tiny Talbot was the superintendent. And so when that started, he said, “Well, y’all can just forget this, because White parents are not going to let their children come to this side of town.” And that was his basic thing. So we said, “Okay.” Kept on going, kept on going, and then it got to time to go to get sued. Got time to go to the Supreme Court. And, the lawyer for the Alachua County School Board didn’t have a license to practice before the Supreme Court! [Laughter] And it tickled us, in the sense when we found out about it, you know, because he’d been the school board attorney for the longest here. And so, that tickled us. So, they had to hire outside lawyers to come to do that, because what they had done then, they had broken down to the point that they developed a system called the “Freedom of Choice





Plan.” And that was fine, if Black folks wanted to send their kids to Gainesville High—it wasn’t but two. Wasn’t but two White schools here, Buchholz and Gainesville High. And then, one Black school, and that was Lincoln High. So, that was it. So, there were five students. And Reverend Wright’s daughter was one of those that then went over to Gainesville High School. In fact, I think all of them are still living. But then, after about a couple of years, nothing was happening.

So, we went back to court to say to the federal government that this Freedom of Choice Plan was not working in Alachua County, and that from the inception, only five—and I think it only got to about seven or eight at that particular point, so it wasn’t working. You know, at all. So, then we had to go back to court, and the greatest thing that ever happened is that when I left to go into embalming school in Philadelphia, the wife of a funeral director there in Philadelphia lived right down the street from us. So, I had somewhere to stay. I had everything for me. And then, she had a brother that lived outside of New Jersey—out of Philly, into New Jersey. Guy named Andrew Dades. He graduated and everything, went to law school, graduated from law school. Guess who he was working for in Washington? Working with the federal government, and he was a desegregation lawyer. [Laughter] And guess who, when the suit came up—which was in Alachua Country—when the suit came up, guess who they sent down? [Laughter] Who they think? And now, you talk about really holding into town up, because the Dades family here was a big family, and a large family that a lot of people knew here. But after they had moved north, it kind of weaned off in that kind of way. So that was probably one of the most historical exciting things that





had happened in Gainesville in a long time. And ended up winning that particular case, and then, that was when they went to the zoning. So, they just carved everything up, and if you lived in a certain area of town, that’s the school you went to. And that system is still in existence. Still in existence today. And I guess that kind of opens that now. What was the devastating part of all of that? With the integration, particularly along the area of public accommodations and everything, Black businesses on 5th Avenue dried up. It was just hard to digest with the community that this was all about giving you the right to go anywhere in this town that you wanted to go to; be served and be treated as a respected person. Not just doing away with the economics of the Black community. And, slowly but surely, that’s what happened. Freedom—the word having freedom is one thing, but don’t ever lose the bridges that brought you across. All of those Black businesses up and down 5th Avenue, and kids that their parents had kids that they sent to college, got educated, and the only way that they had the money to do that was from the income that the African [American] community had. Couldn’t go nowhere else, so you had to spend it there! Now, we didn’t mind you going ouot. You’d be sure that you would be—in fact, we would get people to go to certain businesses, just to test it out, to be sure it was working. But that was not—you know, don’t destroy it, our own stuff. And then, the philosophy back in those days was that, that was the philosophy—and that’s what we understood— was that, if you get a dollar from somewhere else, and it was off the White man’s job, you get a dollar, you spend that dollar as much as you can in the Black community, because you know it’s going back to town. But somehow, we weren’t





thinking progressively enough to tie both of them together, but as the businesses started closing up down there—Reverend Cato, who had a sundry right there on 5th Avenue—old Seminary Lane, what you want to call it--and it was, that’d be what, eight hundred, about seven hundred block, going that way right before you got to 8th Street. And got to the point that he built a store up here on 2nd Street— and 2nd is what they call Pleasant Street now—on 2nd Street. There’s a church in it now. But built the building. So, he had two little sundry stores in the community. And, but that was the key to the economic development in this side of town, and that just kind of got out all the way—I heard Larry talking a little bit. Yeah, from 6th Street going west, you got Fletcher’s; then you got Sam there now who’s remodeled most of those little places there, but he’s a bail bondman, and I don’t know what else he going do with the rest of it; then you got Duncan Brothers Funeral Home. Now, you had Sarah’s place right across the street from all of that, jamming all the time. See, we were integrated with the college kids way before Gainesville got integrated, in a sense, because Sarah had no problem.

And the musicians were there. And they’d come down and jam with us, come down on, you know, they’d come on Sunday nights, and no problems, no nothing. But, that’s kind of basically the history of the Movement. And the Movement has continued since then, and now it’s just kind of moved to the politics that—we have to deal with the politics that we have to play with locally, as well as statewide, as well as national. And that’s it. We have been fortunate that we’ve got our first African American superintendent in the school district, been fortunate the first elected official here was Neil Butler, who served on the city





commission, and then Aaron Green served on the commission. That’d been some progress from the electorial standpoint, from that point. Those were the good old hard days, good old hard days, and I think that we have in some way lost a sense of community. I think that Chief Jones is doing a great job in terms of the Eastside situation, and he has set up trying to revitalize the Eastside in particularly. And he’s—and that is also sensitizing police officers. We thank God we have not had the Ferguson kind of situation, or really anywhere else you go. There was that time that there was that kind of roughing up kind of thing with a lot of young Blacks, but that has eased off, and I think that communication between the community and the police department is vastly improved. And I think with all this stuff happening around the country, that everybody’s beginning to appreciate and respect the way that Gainesville is going thus far with that, particularly with this younger generation. Because this younger generation has no sense of the struggle, and no sense of what it took to obtain the various rights that we have now. And it’s just not like it’s been this way all the time, it’s “coming up cool, but you know? Hey!” You know? [Laughter] “I don’t know nothing about all that stuff they talking about.” So we still got a long row to hoe, in changing the mindsets of this younger generation. Yeah. So I don’t know, I think that kind of took you to the Civil Rights Movement, I think. And I guess the other point of that was that when they—down at the courthouse, when Earl was here, and when they had me charged with contributing to delinquency of minors, that courtroom was packed with parents. And I think that’s what really shook the judge up.

Because we had the doctor, the dentist; we had everybody that the White





community knew, or possibly in some way respected, was sitting there. And I really think Judge McDonell was counting the votes, too, while he was looking at it. [Laughter] You know, “I can’t do this if I ain’t going have no damn job! I am not going to have a job.” [Laughter] And then, thankfully after that—it was not long after that, too—that the legislature acted upon the fact that this county judge stuff—still county judges, but you got to be a lawyer. You just can’t be running around there and have some sense and think you understand the law, and then you can be a judge. But, I guess that’s about it. When Larry was talking to me, he was talking about the Pleasant Street area, because that was—as I said, from Main Street going west to 13th Street, and from Boundary Street going over to University Avenue, that was basically the Black community. And then, as you get across that and you go south of 4th Avenue, that’s Porter’s. We used to call it “Porter’s Quarters,” and that was it. And other than that, west Gainesville was basically—that’s why they called it “Old Gainesville.” The courthouse, the county, everything in government was there, and then when the powers that be wrestled the University, I think was first started, it was supposed to start in Lake City. So, when they wrestled that away, and brought it here to Alachua County that—well, basically to Gainesville—and that basically made Gainesville. Built it to what it is now. And the whole high-tech thing now is really getting people nervous, particularly back to the Pleasant Street area, because the new zoning stuff that they’re talking about, and the building codes that they’re talking about now is going to wipe out—it has the potential, well it’s no question to me, it’s going to wipe out Porter’s, and it’s going to whip out this particular area if we don’t fight it.





We had just got through a fighting—the last meeting I went to was a couple weeks ago, trying to be sure that whatever was done, whatever they’re talking about doing, and we are against it, is changing the zoning instructions as it relates to Fletchers, as it relates to Duncan Brothers Funeral Home, as these indigenous parts of this community. I don’t give a damn what you do otherwise, but you don’t—they going get grandfathered in, let me just put it that way. But that’s kind of what the community is facing right now. Don’t mind change, but don’t displace me. Don’t displace me in that change. Yeah. Leave something there, that we got something to hold on to. And then another thing, I don’t know if you—probably going around there, be talking about me like a dog, but I done said what I had to say about it, too. [Laughter] Part of this stuff about these historical designations: it’s a certain area. They tried to get us get into that. You ain’t going to tell me what to do with this business. Unh-uh, I don’t want to get it. Because the control that they have on these historical preservation committees and all that kind of stuff, you can’t do things to improve what you got there. If you talking about abandoned houses; abandoned houses, well, okay. Fine. Get the codes enforcement people, and everybody on the same page, in the same book, at the same time, we can do something. You know. “Oh, no way! We can’t use these shotgun houses” and everything. Tell them. So, what you got to do, is go into East Gainesville, across Waldo Road. You take a look at all them new houses they built out there: every last one of them shotgun houses. Know what a shotgun house is? You open the front door and you see out the back door. That’s why they call it a shotgun house. You know? Now, I got to know—is the housing





a little bit better than some of these run-down shacks? Yeah, fine. But now, the shotgun houses were only fifty by a hundred. You know, “Oh, you done done away with fifty by a hundreds.” Until you get ready to do it. Then, you can build a fifty by a hundred. [Laughter] And you ride through, and you take a look at them, and that’s what you going see. You go right down here on 7th Avenue right now, time you cross 12th Street. And they got three two-story houses there. And just got through building them, at the corner of 12th headed back toward 13th. Okay, so, all you did was to take a shotgun house and take it up. That’s all you did! [Laughter] Now, who you going rent that to? Or, who you going sell that to? Town history, and two-story houses are nice and all that kind of stuff, but I’m seventy- five years of age; I don’t want no two-story house. All the bedrooms are upstairs. At seventy-five, I don’t want to be running up and down no damn steps! [Laughter] But anyway, so it moved. So, we still got a lot of little things to work with, and all we want to do is to just begin to develop economically. To be self- supportive, that’s the only thing that I’m concerned about now is as a community, being self-supporting. That’s it, yeah. That’s the key to it. So, we’ll keep plugging at that aspect of it, trying to turn the educational system around. Get some of these young folks to wake up and smell the roses, because they still growing roses, just got to know how to smell them. And then, after you smell them, you begin to like them, then you going have to have enough money to buy them. [Laughter] Then you own the rose. You own the rose then, yes sir, yes sir.

	H:	You want to go back, Ryan, to Mr. Chestnut’s family history, or do you want to go to a different direction?





	M:	I have a few other questions about the Movement, if that’s okay? C:	Oh, sure, sure, of course.

	M:	One, do you remember anything about Jack Dawkins? C:	Oh yeah, yeah. Yeah.

	M:	What was he like? What were your interactions like?



	C:	Jack Dawkins, now that—Jack my boy! [Laughter] Because you need that element. Because, what I compare him to is Eldridge Cleaver, Stokely Carmichael. You know, this group—“Hey, come on!” You know, we’re sitting here, we’re supposed to be a non-violent, very peaceful people. That’s the NAACP. [Laughter] You see what I’m saying? That’s’ the NAACP. But, you need that element, that fear element. “They’re crazy! Shit, don’t know what the hell they going do!” When I first ran for the school board, that’s what they thought.

They thought that I was—you know. You know. [Laughter] It wasn’t until Jack and them boys came along, and Eldridge Cleaver and all them started and came along, they find out, “Well, no, this little Negro boy, he ain’t quite that bad!” [Laughter] So, I loved the man. I loved him. Yeah. And believe me—and he did some good. He did some good. Because you bring about that comparison, so that you got someone to deal with who’s talking whole lot of shit that this little guy ain’t talking about. And doing a couple of things—because there ain’t no question in my mind, all that rock-throwing shit? Jack had something to do with that. I ain’t shitting nobody. [Laughter] No, I ain’t, unh-uh! Yeah, but there no question. And he had White supporting him in that group. Oh, yeah! Oh, yeah. There was no question about it. So, it’s good to have that element in the community at times. I





never accused him or anything about it, but we had to stop that part. You don’t destroy the businesses in your own community. And that was before all that shit, stoning shit started happening up North. But this was—you’re in a confined area, and you need services. And there’s a cleaners here, and you getting your clothes cleaned, and you burn the bad boy down where you’re going—what you going do? You had a combination meat store and a grocery store, but there was just a Fisher owned one, and I’m trying to think of the name that owned the other one. But there was one building: Fisher was on this side, and the other one was on that side. You don’t mess with—I mean, and these were people who, if you needed a two and a half-pound bag of sugar: you can go get it, write a little note. When payday come, go in and pay him. You know, and that kind of thing. You are in a way impacting yourself by doing that. So don’t ever start tearing down something that is benefitting you. Don’t tear down the bridges that brought you ‘cross the water. I mean, you just don’t do it, don’t burn them! But that was one of them. And so, I’ve never heard—Jack never say anything about anything like that, nor would he—he just wasn’t taking no foolishness. And talking that talk.

Yeah, and talking that talk. So I think, again, that was no question, as far as I was concerned personally—and I think a lot of other people, the younger set of NAACP—ain’t got nothing to do with that, but by the same token, “Keep on, brother. Keep on pushing. Yeah, keep on pushing.” And they finally—you know, I think he left here, and last time I saw Jack, he left here and went to St. Pete if I’m not mistaken. Yeah. Left here and went to St. Pete. Yeah, that’s the last time I saw him, was down in Saint Pete. I think he started a little newspaper down





there, when he was down there in St. Pete. But that was probably one of the most quote-unquote “militant elements” we had in the community. [Laughter] And man, he could be—he blew in here. He wasn’t born, reared, and fed here. He blew in here. But he was quite a character. Wasn’t no dumb boy, either. Yeah, wasn’t no dumb boy. I’m trying to think—oh, Thomas, Thomas, I think it’s Thomas.

	M:	Oh, Carol Thomas?



	C:	Carol! Yeah! Carol was tight with him. Yeah, Carol was tight with him. Yeah, she good people too. Yeah, Carol. I haven’t seen her in a pretty good while. Opened my mind back up, yeah. [Laughter] Yeah, let me tell you. But I guess the other thing—L.V. Davis that I mentioned, L.V. Davis lived on—he used to live over this side of town. Before he died, he moved to East Gainesville. East Gainesville was the—East Gainesville where the railroad track, I guess you go down 8th Avenue here, and you get to Waldo Road, and there’s a trail on the other side. Well, that was a railroad track. That was the Seaboard. Yeah, Seaboard Rail Line used to come down that way. And the Atlantic Coastline used to come over here on 6th Street; where you see that little trail going down past the police station, right behind it, and headed on out that way and toward the campus. But anyway, so the development in that area was the next thing that started, because there used to be—there was a little community out there in a sense, but there was no water or nothing out there. And the people who lived in that little area had to come up through that railroad track. And they had put a water spigot there. And that’s how they had to get water, to walk back over. It makes you think that you’re looking at





a movie or something in Africa, you know? Head buckets or something like that, but walking with the water for the thing. And L.V. Davis started the—he was a member of the Florida Voters’ League, and he really started a political movement on the part of Blacks in the community, and getting them registered to vote, and doing things like that. I guess that then kind of shifted to the activities of certain things getting done on that side, and the federal government got involved a little bit. Ed Jennings Sr. was the kind of first individual working for the city who drew up and was very instrumental in the plan of running water to those homes out that way, and getting the streets paved, and getting some sidewalks put in. And ultimately which lead to Duval Elementary School being there on that side of town. And that’s when Gainesville began—African Americans began—to expand, because right past that first little section, you went on down and then you got Duval Heights out there, was the first little subdivision that was not built by a contractor, but people hired contractors to build homes out there. And I think that that was the impetus of seeing what had been and what was happening this day in time to that community, as far as that movement now to revitalize that community. Because you got some very nice homes, and same thing had happened in southeast Gainesville, because when they closed down Lincoln—all the teachers and stuff lived around Lincoln. 12th Street and that whole area, that’s where they lived. When the built the new Lincoln out there, 90% of those homes that are around Lincoln up there now, with the exception of that new subdivision they just built a little north of it, went to former teachers. Coaches, teachers, and everything. That’s why they call it “Little Hollywood.” [Laughter] over there, they





call it Little Hollywood. But that was the base and foundation of the community, was the educational system. And that was that. That first little school, it was done by the Freedmen’s Bureau, right down here on 2nd Street, right there where the recreation center is now. It’s a substation for the police department, too. And it’s named after Rosa B. Williams. Rosa B. kind of took over after Mr. Davis died. But the NAACP also participated in that. In fact, the youth council got the first grant from the NAACP on the voter registration. Took on the voter registration thing.

Took people like [49:33 Inaudible], who was the Supervisor of Elections at that time, and was beautiful people. First one to hire an African American in her office, and that was Barbara Higgins. And she, when we got that grant from the NAACP, and got the registration to vote movement going again, we went down talking with her, and she let us borrow a voting machine. But she said, “Now, Charles, I can’t use the county equipment to take it where you want it, but you got a pickup truck and you want to borrow it, I’ll give it to you.” [Laughter] And she did that, and we took it down to—right on 5th Avenue, in the Masonic building. Time you turn that little corner, the Masonic. We took it down, set it up down there. And we ran seminars for people for about a month, and you could come in any time you wanted, and we’ll teach you how. And that was the days when you had to pull the handle, and then close the curtains, and then kind of activated the machine. They had these little things that you got to pull down over it, somebody, whoever’s running for office and everything. And then, when you got through with that, then you’d pull the lever back, and it records your vote and everything, and you could walk out, and that kind of thing. And of course, that





kind of—you know, people were not used to the mechanics of operating that, so I’ll never forget her for doing it. And there have been some good people throughout the Movement, there’ve been some good people here. And a lot of folks lost their job at the University of Florida, too. I know of at least about three or four professors who were involved in the Movement. Oh god, [inaudible 52:00] still be here, trying to—

	H:	What made you want to become involved in the Movement? C:	You mean Philadelphia?

	H:	On a personal level.



	C:	Philadelphia. Yeah. Living here, you kind of grew up with an inferiority complex on your shoulder. You see what I’m saying? And even today, I can understand how some of the minds of people work. You take a look at, even now, to this day and time, there’s still that comparison: test scores, White versus Black. I think when the Hispanics finally came, they started helping us Black folks out a little bit. [Laughter] You know, we ain’t the guinea pigs no more, you know, or something like that. I don’t know what happened. But, so you kind of had this inferiority complex. And that did not—I didn’t really shake that ‘til I got to Philadelphia. And particularly, in embalming school. I realized some things back in [19]58. Well, I felt proud about some things in [19]58, let me put it that way, because it was still segregated. But our graduating high school class in Howard—back in them days, you used to take what they called a state placement exam. And of course, they’d always, “Get the scores, get the scores, get the scores.” Our graduating class, and a couple classes after us, did so good





on those exams, it started living it, you know? They did away with the state exam. [Laughter] And of course, I left high school at that time anyways, I was at Bethune-Cookman and everything. But when that happened, and I got to Philadelphia, that was my first integrational educational setting. First time. Some of that stuff kind of still rested on your shoulders; you don’t think that you are as good or bright as they are. And, one thing I liked about Philadelphia: at the end of the first quarter, they’d post the goddamn grades on the sheet, on the board.

	H:	Everybody see.



	C:	On the board, yeah. And then it was one, two, Skip Scarborough, Walter Manning, Earl Byars, and myself. And there was a lady there—Baker. So anyway, so they posted the grades. And it was about sixty of us in the class. And then we started looking at the damn board—we used to work together, study together, that kind of stuff. We started looking at that damn board, we said “Oh, shit!” You know? [Laughter] We started talking shit like you don’t know what! And then, that helps you. Psychologically. And then, we used to, guys, we’d all get together, and go to lunch together. Go in the same restaurant and have lunch together, Black and White. And some good friends. We’d stay in contact with each other at times, now. Just had Roberta to send me a letter talking about— and ran into Skip Scarborough; she talked to Skippy, too, about trying to pull the graduating class of Eckels College of Mortuary Science, trying to pull us back together. She knew some of the people, we knew some of the people. So, a lot of us have slipped on—in our own funeral homes, I guess! [Laughter] But, so we [56:36 Inaudible] and work on that. But that was the basic thing. So, when I got





back here, there was no way that, having been exposed for twelve months to Philadelphia, that I could come back to Gainesville! You know, I was getting ready to turn around and go back to Philadelphia. You know, “Hey, I have seen life! And I’ve seen it a whole lot different than all this down here.” And that was basically it. And Brackie Rice, the guy I just mentioned, he was in New York. He just moved back here. Roger is still up in Virginia. But then, to have that kind of experience in different places—Virginia, New York and then Philadelphia—all was about the same. You know, and I had to come back here for this? Unh-uh. And the first time we got started was when—Roger had a brother, Clarence. But, when they came down here to spend the summer with their grandparents, and Brackie—“Hey.” That’s how it got started. That’s how it got started. And after the summer was overwith, Roger had to go back. But Brackie was still there, because his parents used to live right down there, but he was in New York with his sister. So, it was just two of us. But by that time, others had started joining in, so everything just kind of worked out all right. Kind of worked out all right. In fact, Roger’s uncle just—well he’s retired now, been retired—but he used to taught science at Lincoln High School. And he had an uncle that was a doctor. Was one of the first doctors here in Gainesville, and they would not allow to practice at Alachua General Hospital. And that’s when he ultimately left and moved to St.

Petersburg, himself. And there was a Dr. Thomas here, but there was no practice in Alachua General Hospital. C.W. Banks—just died a couple of years ago—was the first African American doctor to be allowed to practice in Alachua General Hospital. They had like a hospital that was one floor, and that was the Colored





floor. And I don’t even—well, none of you would know, but Alachua Hospital wasn’t no big hospital. I mean, it wasn’t a Shands. It wasn’t anything—it wasn’t a North Florida Regional; it was nothing like that. But, so they had one floor that was for the Colored folks, and didn’t have but—I guess I’d doubt if they had twelve rooms on that floor, and it was even to the extent that there were hospital beds with patients in it outside in the hallway. You know. But if the condition of the person was serious enough to be admitted to the hospital, then their attending physician who’d been there with them though all this, and felt that, “Hey, you need a little bit more care, you need some more stuff,” and set them to the hospital, couldn’t go. You couldn’t practice. So, those were some of the conditions and some of the circumstances. And people who worked at the University of Florida, after six o’clock they could be there. After six o’clock. And I’m talking about in daylight savings time! [Laughter] Talking ‘bout daylight savings time, baby! Sun still up! So, there’s been a lot to have been seen here.

	M:	So, when you came back from Philadelphia, was your family supportive of this new—they were behind you on that?

	C:	Yeah. My grandfather—well, he was pretty well-known. Well, number one, we came out of South Carolina. I ain’t the color I am for there ain’t been no bullshit going on, you know what I’m saying? [Laughter] You know what I’m saying? Let’s face it, that kind of thing. And so, his family came down with a White family, and they looked out for him, my great-grandfather, and my grandfather. So, when I got involved in the NAACP, that was a personal thing—they tried to run us out of business. But the old line people had the audacity to ask me, “Does Charlie know





what you’re doing?” “Go ask Charlie.” [Laughter] “That’s all I can say. He know it better than I know it.”—apparently! Talking to me about it! You go ask him! But yeah. He never said anything. The only thing he said to me after we got the public accommodations, he said, “Well, what y’all going do about jobs?” And, believe me, I got to be honest, wasn’t even thinking about that, but that, you know, clipped off on it. And then we started moving in that direction. My grandmother lived right down on that corner. She used to go Wilson’s department stores. Bigtime department store uptown. And she could go in there and see a dress that she liked, but she couldn’t try it on. She could see a hat that she liked. She had to buy the hat; she couldn’t try it on. Shoes, couldn’t try them on. That, in essence, built part of an economy in the black community. We had a seamstress. So, what she would do would be to take a look at the dress, and she liked the dress and everything, she would buy the dress, bring it home, and then take it to the seamstress and try it on. Seamstress would make adjustments to it. But that’s the kind of thing—it’s what I was used to growing up. It was a Lumpy’s grocery store right there on the corner where the Firestone is now. My grandmomma and my granddaddy lived right across the street, behind that minit- mart. So, she would always send me to the store, send me to the store. And, “pick up this,” “pick up that,” “pick up this,” “pick up that.” And I’d do that. So, one Saturday, she said, “Come on to the grocery store with me.” So, I went across there to the store. She had a shopping basket, I went around and helped her get all she wanted. And as we came to the checkout counter—it was a young White girl working in there—I was with my grandmomma. [Laughter] And you know, the





girl smiled and looked at me, and I smiled and looked back at her. And blah, blah, blah. I never set foot in that store from that day I came out of there. She would not let me go back in that store. She thinking about Emitt Till. You know, it’s just some crazy—but that’s, and that’s the kind of stuff that you grew up under. Parents and grandparents were very protective of the children. And I remember them saying, grandmomma, mother and them, “Don’t let that sun catch you down; you better be inside this house!” It was something. It was something. The more I keep talking about my childhood, the more keeps coming up in my mind—but that was the only thing that he ever said to me after the public accommodation thing. He said, “Well, what about jobs?” What about jobs? And that’s when we kind of had to turn the spigot back on, and “We got to do something. Got to do something about that.” But it takes you back to those kinds of experiences. The first department—Silverman’s used to be down there right next to Florida Theatre, right there on University Avenue. And in fact, Harvey Budd, who sits on the city commission up here now, is married to Joe Silverman’s daughter, Eileen. But, one of the first stores that we went into during the Movement days, that—we had a guy working for them in there named Zero. But they were kind, they were gentle. And that was the first account I ever had, where I could get stuff on credit. But hey—I going poke my sharpest damn tack! [Laughter] I mean, they were Jewish, you know. So, that was, there were some good people in this town, and there are still some good people in this town. There still some cut-throats here, though, but hey: you got to deal with them. You got to learn. But that’s it. About time we got to go now, because we keep sitting here





talking, the recessed chambers in my mind will wake up! But I’m not rushing you all or anything, but as long as we have been—between Larry and I—been some degree of help.

	H:	Yeah, you have. Thank you. M:	Can I ask just one more?

	C:	Sure, oh yeah! Anyway, yeah. Go ahead.



	M:	So you traveled to St. Augustine. Did you ever go down to Ocala, or deal with Frank Pinkston down there?

	C:	Oh hell, yeah! Ocala yeah! Oh yeah, Pinkston, oh yeah. I graduated from high school in Ocala.

	M:	Oh, okay! From Howard!



	C:	Yeah, at Howard Academy. Well Howard High School at that point. Yeah, I left here—my grandfather had a partner that was Hughes and Chestnut Funeral in Ocala. And Mr. Hughes had become ill, so my father had started going down there, going through the whole thing, and then ultimately, I guess about a year later, Mr. Hughes died. And then soon my father and mother moved to Ocala. So I finished sixth grade here, and that’s what I loved about them days, because in elementary school, in the African American school, when you graduated from sixth grade to junior high, you had a graduation ceremony. Yeah, yeah. [Laughter] And it wasn’t just a “Hey, okay, you through with sixth grade. Well, you start seventh grade next year.” You know, unh-uh. They had a big graduation, big thing. I went down there in [19]52, and I graduated from high school in [19]58.

And so when I got back from Atlanta, Frank and they went to Virginia Union if I’m





not mistaken. Went to Virginia Union, because Brother Cottonly—just moved back there now, we used to play football together—went to Virginia Union too. But anyway, yeah. I would go—Frank had been up here to a couple of Mass Meetings we had, and I used to go down there to their Mass Meetings, because the church was right across the railroad track—Covington [Covenant]. In fact, his father pastored that church. But he was a good guy. Frank was a good baseball player, too. Yes sir, yeah. We had some good times. In fact, he ended up marrying, what’s—and she’s still living, but she lives in Palatka now. That was kind of devastating, and an untimely death. It wasn’t that he got shot or anything like that, but it just blew—I think it blew everybody’s mind when he died, because, man, he was a good young man. Yeah. Was a good guy, very good guy. Oh yeah, but we used to go down, because Cunningham Funeral Home was right next door. Railroad track was there, Cunningham Funeral Home was here, and the church was over there.

	H:	We talked to Cunningham’s wife—ex-wife. C:	Oh, Juanita? Oh yeah.

	H:	Talked to her about two weeks ago.



	C:	You did? Oh, yeah, I talk with her off and on all the time. You sound like you know Marion County, baby! Little bit?

	H:	Well, we been doing some stuff. [Laughter]



	C:	Yeah, because Thelma Parker and them, they all live in the same community. Yeah, Thelma Parker, who was my English teacher, was good people. I mean, very beautiful people. But yeah, yeah. And the Pinkstons lived out there in Silver





Springs. They were a good family. In fact, Pa Haile—who used to work here, and worked with my grandfather in Starke—he had a brother who was a doctor in Ocala, Dr. Haile. And Dr. Haile married Pinkston’s sister. Yeah. And those were the good old days. [Laughter] I lived in Ocala along the way, let me tell you: back when I was growing up, that was as much difference between day and night, between Gainesville and Ocala. Ocala was a rough town, man! Whoo! It was a rough town! I guess they were too close to Lake County or something, I don’t know what happened. But it was rough. And the Methodist church in Ocala was right there—well, look, that’s where the courthouse is now. Was right there next—and the county jail was there, was right there next to the county jail. [Laughter] But it was a time a half, it was a time and half. They had a big old building there called the Marion Hotel. And it was right there on the corner of Magnolia or somewhere and something, whatever they called it. Yeah. That was a strange town, too. And that old saying, historically, that you wanted to know where the Black community was in a town, all you had to do was cross the railroad track! [Laughter] Ocala was the same way, you see? And I always teased about that because East Gainesville is predominantly Black; East Ocala is predominantly White. West Gainesville is predominantly White. Predominantly Black. I say, “They all got the shit all turned around there!” [Laughter] Yeah. It was always that railroad track. Always that railroad track. I tell you. But if you go through most towns in the South, you going find that. It’s crossing the tracks.

	H:	Thank you Mr. Chestnut, for speaking with us.





	C:	Well, thank you, thank you. It just opened my mind up a little bit, because a lot of stuff I had basically forgotten about until I started talking about some of it. Yeah, yeah. Well, that’s good. I hope that all the history comes out right. [Laughter]

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Anna Jimenez, January 19, 2016 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 26, 2019