AAHP 008; Mizell; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 008 Mack Mizell

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Marna Weston on March 3, 2010 58 minutes | 29 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Mack Mizell speaks about his experiences growing up in Hamilton County, Florida. He discusses his education at a church that did not teach students past the eighth grade. He also describes his job as a turpentine worker and why he decided to work there. Mr. Mizell shares memories about his military service during World War II, and what he did upon his return.



Keywords: [African American History; Hamilton County, Florida; Turpentine; US Military Veterans]























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 008

Interviewer: Marna Weston Interviewee: Mack Mizell Date: January 27, 2010



	W:	This is Marna Weston for the Sam Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida at the home of Mr. Mack Mizell in Lake City, Florida. Thank you for having us here today sir. Could you please state your full name?

	M:	My name is Mack Mizell. M-A-C-K, M-I-Z-E-L-L. Mack Mizell. W:	What is your date of birth please sir?

	M:	12-17-[19]30.



	W:	Where were you born? M:	Hamilton County.

	W:	Could you tell us about your mom and dad?



	M:	Well, what you want me to tell you about my momma and daddy? W:	Well who are they?

	M:	My momma was Jonnie Lee Roberts she was from White Springs, FL. My daddy was Jessie Mizell and he was from Jasper.

	W:	How did they meet?



	M:	I don’t really know that part. Actually I’ll tell you how they met cause my momma sister married my daddy’s brother. My momma’s parents, all them died so my momma had to go live with her sisters. By her sister being married to my daddy’s brother, that’s how they met.

	W:	How about your dad? M:	What about him?

	W:	Being from Jasper, Florida. Who were his parents?





	M:	His parents were Henry Mizell and his wife was named Nancy. They were from Fargo, Georgia.

	W:	What about your grandparents on that side?



	M:	I don’t know nothing about them. Well actually, they were slaves when they comed to- my dad was eighty-one years old when he died and his brother was a hundred and three when he died. So you talking about long time ago and I’m seventy-nine. You talking about long time ago.

	W:	Well that’s good though. That’s good longevity. Still got a ways to go. How about your mom, and your mother’s mother and father?

	M:	They lived in White Springs. I didn’t know too much about them. My momma’s momma died and then she lived with her sister, so I didn’t know much about them. My momma’s parents were actually White. Some of them went for Black and some of them went for White. My momma’s uncle stayed right there in White Springs, named Brandon Roberts that was my momma’s daddy’s brother. He went for White, Brandon Roberts did. But the rest of them went for Black. All my momma’s brothers and sisters were actually White. But they went for Black. They were real fair-skinned with blue eyes. They were actually White, but they went for Black.

	W:	Does that mean once they decided which world they wanted to live in that they didn’t talk to each other that much? Or did they stay in communication?

	M:	You mean the White side? Well Brandon Roberts—I was down there where he had a fish pond down there after I married my wife. I went down there. We had a





fish pond right behind where my wife comes from and he told me right there “I’m your uncle.”

	W:	So he wanted you to know? M:	He wanted me to know.

	W:	So now your wife, let’s talk about her for just a minute. What’s her name? M:	Her name is Susie Mae Scippio.

	W:	How did you all meet?



	M:	I was just riding around here. I had an old car just riding around here. I just met up with her down to the church.

	W:	What kind of car did you have? M:	A thirty-seven Chevrolet.

	W:	What was the church?



	M:	The church was Sweet Home Baptists Church. It’s still in existence but not in the same place.

	W:	When you all met, was it during a church a service? Was it a church social?



	M:	No, just a little piece from the church was a stream cross the road. It was a county road but there was a stream cross that county road. There was a spring down there and a lot of them was going back and forth to the spring and that’s where she was at, down there to the spring.

	W:	What caught your attention about her? How did you end up talking to her?



M:  Well, I just met up with her, we was talking. I messed around and let her took my watch away from me. I had a watch and she took it and didn’t give it back. I think I had a pair of sunglasses and she took them too.





	W:	How long have you all been married? M:	Fifty-six years.

	W:	Tell us about your children please.



	M:	You mean what they do and about where they at? W:	Who they are, oldest to youngest.

	M:	My oldest daughter live in Boynton Beach, Florida. She work for Social Security.



She been there twenty-nine years.



	W:	What’s her name?



	M:	Her name is Lenora Walton. My middlest daughter, she work right here in Lake City. Her name is Barbara Perry, her husband name Perry. Barbara Perry and she work to the VA Hospital. She’s a occupational therapists, that’s what she do there. My next oldest daughter is a mail carrier, that’s the one who stayed in the army twelve and a half years. She’s a mail carrier in Jacksonville, that’s what she do. My son he works for Alachua County Sherriff’s Department.

	W:	The last two I’m sorry I didn’t get their names. Your youngest daughter and your son’s names are? What are their names?

	M:	My youngest daughter named Angel Ortiz , she’s married to a Puerto Rican. Her name is Angel Ortiz. My son, his name is the same thing my name is. We both named the same thing. His name is Mack Mizell, that’s what I’m named that’s what he’s named. Only difference is he got an “F.” His name is Mack Floyd Mizell, so he got an F in the middle of his. That’s the only difference with me and him.

	W:	What’s your middle name?





	M:	I don’t have a middle name.



	W:	So you’re just Mack Mizell and he’s Mack Floyd Mizell?



	M:	Now in the beginning I did have a middle name. When I was going to school, in the little old city we was in, it was a Jew running the store there and his name was Mack Miles. I was named after Mack Miles. The children teased me and say “You ain’t nobody but old Mack Miles.” The teachers say “You aint got to spell your name that way, you can spell it different.” My name is M-A-X. Maxie Miles Mizell. What I did was change my name. I changed it to M-A-C-K. I changed it. I just got it straight, here about a year ago. I got it straight cause I wanted to go on a cruise. I had to get it straight so I could get a passport.

	W:	So it took all those years to get it right?



	M:	No. See when I went into the army, in the military it was my name I changed to Mack Mizell. I didn’t go in there M-A-X., Maxie Miles. I didn’t go in there that name. I changed it. When I was going to school cause they teased me bout old Mack Miles, and so I changed it. So I went in the military under the name I got now, so I had to stick with that name once I went in the military with that name. I went and had it changed on paper. I got a birth certificate stating that cause all my insurance and everything is under that name Mack Miles. If I hadn’t got it changed, there would be problems with somebody when I died.

	W:	You said you went to school until the eighth grade. What were your first memories of school? Where did you start going to school at?

	M:	Where I lived at, the church was the school. Wherever the church was that was the school. Where we went to church at where we went to school at. What they





did was build the church right about the middle of the community, where most of the people stayed at. They built it about three miles in every direction. Some of those children walking three miles in the morning and at night. Although the school bus come right by where they was at, but it wouldn’t pick them up though.

	W:	What was the name of the church school?



	M:	Spring Branch Baptist Church. It was named after a little spring, a little spring down there. It was named after that spring.

	W:	Did you have one teacher or more than one teacher?



	M:	Oh no, had a lot of teachers. My first teacher was named Metty Brown and she was a real tough, tough teacher. I don’t know how many years she taught. But then later on, my last teacher was a teacher from Lake City, her last name was Murphy. During that time the teacher had to stay with somebody in the community because she had no way to get about. So she had to board with somebody in the community. She had to walk to school right along with the rest of us.

	W:	You finished school in the eighth grade, did you get a job? What did you do when you finished school?

	M:	I didn’t finish school. I actually dropped out when I got to the eighth. Where I was going to school at, that’s the highest they went with eighth grade at that church. If you wanted to go higher, you probably had to get a room in town with somebody. Right about when I was in the eighth grade, just about all the people moved out of that settlement. There was just a few Black children in that settlement. What they did, they only paid the teachers $21 a month. So there was a guy that





stayed down on the very far end. He asked the county would they give him that



$21 a month and he haul the children to county to the school. They told him “Yeah” and he had an old thirty-five Chevrolet , he had a body made on the back. He hauled the children on it for a couple of years. Then my uncle bought a three- quarter ton Chevrolet and he started hauling them all and had canvas round the back of it. He hauled them for about two or three years, three or four years I think. He had a heart attack and he died. Then the County gave the Black people around there an old school bus; not a new one, a real old one. They had a Black school bus and a White school bus. I don’t really know what year it changed where the White and Black ride the same bus. I don’t even see buses now. I know it’s a bunch of buses running in that area. I’m not associated with school things nowadays so I don’t know what went on. For a long time there was a White school bus and then a Black school bus. The Black school bus was about worn out, because the Whites had about wore it out and gave it to the Blacks.

	W:	Do you remember the name of the man that drove the thirty-five Chevy; the first driver?

	M:	His name was Vernon Parrish. He was staying down here to Sarasota. He moved back to his old home place. He was the one that had the old thirty-five Chevrolet truck, with a body, [Inaudible 13:07] and he was the one that first started hauling the children. He did. the name was Vernon Parrish.

	W:	What about your uncle who died of the heart attack, the second bus driver. What was his name?

	M:	His name was John, J-O-H-N, Mizell. Yeah.





	W:	So your family has been in Hamilton County for a long time?



	M:	Yeah in Hamilton County, a real long time. Yeah, Hamilton County, yeah.



	W:	When you finished school, you dropped out of eighth grade, what did you do then?

	M:	Back in that time, the turpentine was the mean thing back in that time, was turpentine. . Mostly everybody had a job working at turpentine. So I got a job working at turpentine with the rest of them. They had chipping, and pulling boxes. They had a sharp thing. This color street crossed two ways like this and every week you had to make another street, to make the tar keep running. Just an average worker could chip about a thousand trees a day. I chipped two-thousand a day. I walked three miles to start, you had to walk where you going. I walked three miles, chipped two-thousand and walked back home.

	W:	Where was this at? Was this around Jasper or did you have to go somewhere else?

	M:	No, it was right from where we lived at. [Inaudible 14:44]. That’s where it was at. W:	How many men were doing that same kind of job as you?

	M:	Probably every Black man that was in that County was doing the same thing I was doing. It was just two kinds of jobs there. There was saw mills and turpentine. There was just two types of jobs there. You was either working at a saw mill or you working at turpentine.

	W:	What if you decided you didn’t want to do either one of those jobs?



	M:	You had to leave that county. There was a lot of farming going on, but they didn’t pay nothing working on a farm. Fifty cent a day, that’s all they pay working on a





farm. Chipping boxes, what I was doing, they paid four dollars per thousand. I chipped two thousand a day, see I made $8 a day. Working on a farm you got

$0.50 a day, $2 and a half a week. You wasn’t getting very much.



	W:	So it was one of them three things. That was it? M:	That was it. That was it.

	W:	When you finished turpentine- how long did you do that?



	M:	Let’s see, I believe, no, I started to say I did it till I went to the military. No I didn’t either. I did about, I say about six or seven years I did that. There was another place in Jasper there was a thing called “Maxwell Brothers.” It was a red big building called “Maxwell Brothers.” And what they did, they made crates and things what you put refrigerators in and it’s called “Maxwell Brothers.” And a lot of people worked there. Actually, about nine hundred people worked there, a whole lot of people worked there to “Maxwell Brothers.” They made plywood, they cut it up made boxes. They were the best paying job in the town; they paid twenty-four dollars a week.

	W:	Did Black people and White people work there? M:	Black and White people worked there.

	W:	Did everybody get paid the same? M:	Everybody got paid the same.

	W:	Now, is that business still open?



	M:	No. Some years back I think 1958, they shut that part down. They had another plant in Macon Georgia called a Wild Bound plant. Where they make these





crates that oranges go in called a Wild Bound. The biggest operation was in Macon, Georgia. So they shut this plant down and moved everything to Macon.

	W:	Do you recall who the owners of the plant was?



M:  All I know is Maxwell Brothers. That was the name of them. It was a big operation, about nine hundred people.

W:  You mentioned you were drafted into the service. Did the Maxwell Brothers job stop and then you got drafted? Or did you do something before you went to the military?

	M:	No, I was working at Maxwell Brothers when I went to the military. W:	How did you find out that you were drafted?

	M:	Let me put it this way, first time I was drafted in [19]47 and they turned me down.



In [19]47 they turned me down. We were working at Maxwell Brothers and something went wrong- had to shut down in the part I was working in. they had to shut that part down because something went wrong in there. We just kind of messed around until they got that fixed. It was about five or six of us got to talking. They said “Let’s go to Valdosta, Georgia and volunteer for the army.” I said “Okay, that’s a good idea.”

	W:	Do you know whose idea that was?



	M:	We all jumped in the car and went to Valdosta to the recruitment place. We got there and all of them chickened out but me. All of them chickened out. They decided they wouldn’t go in there. I said “Shit, I’ll go in there. If you all going in there, I’ll go in there.” I went in there and took the test. The man said well “You didn’t make enough on testing.” I told him I wanted to be in the Navy. He said





“You didn’t make enough on the test to be in the Navy, but you could be in the Army or the Marines. You can be in either one of them.” I said “I don’t want to be in either one of them.” He said “Well I have to send this test to your local boat.” I said “You can send it anywhere you want to send it.” During that time I had a seventy-four Indian Chief motorcycle. I said, “I’m going to,” this place just outside of Chicago it’s in Indiana. Gary! I said “I’m going to Gary, Indiana in a few weeks.” He said “I’m going to send this to your local boat.” In a few weeks I was in Fort Jackson, South Carolina. [Laughter]

	W:	You told him a little bit too much. M:	I guess I did. [Laughter]

	W”	You were drafted and inducted and sent to South Carolina?



	M:	Yes, Fort Jackson, South Carolina. That’s the induction place where they take you there, give all your clothing, next thing you know, they ship you out somewhere else.

	W:	How did you get to Fort Jackson?



	M:	On the train, caught it right in the middle of the street there in Jacksonville. W:	How’d you get over to Jacksonville?

	M:	On a bus. Greyhound. Came over there on Greyhound.



	W:	Did you have to get on it yourself or they came and got you and said “We’re going to Jacksonville?”

	M:	No we were all supposed to meet up there to a certain place at the bus station; they had to give us all a ticket. At the bus station they had gave us all a ticket. We got on the Greyhound, they took us to Jacksonville, and they got through





processing us at right about twelve o’clock at night. The train was pulling out right in the middle of the street. They had us get on right there.

	W:	What year was that? M:	In [19]52.

	W:	Do you remember what time of year, what month? M:	It was in December.

	W:	December? So, before Christmas? M:	It was December the 7th in [19]52.

	W:	And you were on your way to South Carolina? M:	Yeah we went to South Carolina.

	W:	So what happened when you got there?



	M:	Well I froze to death for one thing. They had us in a little building, a wall up about five foot high and the rest of it was candles. On the inside they had a potbelly coal heater; fired by coal on the inside. At night the wind pulls the candles up and down, to where you almost freeze. If somebody gets and fire the heater up good, it will last about three to four hours. Then it gets real cold in there then. I was way down here. I wasn’t used to cold.

	W:	How long did you stay in Fort Jackson?



	M:	About two weeks I think. I stayed about two weeks. W:	What did you do while you were there?

	M:	They had what’s called a consolidated mass hall. It was a big mass hall. They filled about fifteen-hundred people a day in there. I washed pans and pots every day. Then they would take us down to fiddle with our shoes. The next day they





would issue out your clothes. Whenever they had something to process you with, they’d come and get you and they take you down there. Otherwise you would be in that consolidated mass hall washing pots and pans, everything else, peeling onions, peeling potatoes. All kinds of things.

	W:	So they never took you drill with the weapons?



	M:	No, they don’t do that until you get into your permanent training outfit. The permanent training outfit was in Fort Rucker, Alabama. Fort Jackson is just where you get your clothes and cut your hair and get your clothes and everything you’re supposed to have. You can get all that and then they ship you out and that’s where you get all the training.

	W:	Before then you got to wash all the pots and pans? M:	Every day and way late in the night.

W:  The Army was integrated in 1948 and you were in it in 1952. Were you in an integrated unit; was there Blacks and Whites together washing the pots and pans?

M:  In Alabama they say I was in the first integrated outfit in Alabama. They said the first integrated outfit was the one I was in in Alabama.

W:   Was that where you went from Fort Jackson to Alabama? What was that like? M:   Uh-huh. I can’t tell you exactly what that was like. That was real terrible, terrible,

terrible.



	W:	Really? What made it terrible?



	M:	What made it terrible? We took sixteen weeks of Basic Training. Now people only take but eight. We took sixteen weeks of Basic Training. I mean they get you up





in the morning time about four o’clock. You go to mass hall and eat. Then they take you to different places and that will last until about ten o’clock at night. Then the next morning the same thing again.

	W:	For sixteen weeks?



	M:	Yeah sixteen weeks. Right.



	W:	Did you have to wash pots and pans there, or were you finally put to your job?



	M:	What they do there, they have a roster where they have different people’s names up there. Maybe once a month you be on KP. They call it “KP.” So once a month you’ll be on KP. There was 235, so there was a lot of us. Every day they would take you out somewhere and train you somewhere, show you a movie or something. Were you in the military?

	W:	No sir, I was born at Bragg; my dad was in the 82nd. M:	He was in the 82nd Airborne?

	W:	I was born at Womack when he was in the Service.



	M:	Well, every day they would take you somewhere. I mean just run you, run you, everywhere. I was so sleepy I got to where I could just sleep standing up.

	W:	So you were there for sixteen weeks and it was terrible. What happened after that?

	M:	After that they put us in what’s called a TINE outfit, a trucking outfit. They had to put us in a trucking outfit then. It was alright- once you got in a TINE outfit it was like you was assigned to a regular job and from then on you just had a regular job.

	W:	What was your job?





	M:	Driving a truck.



	W:	What outfit were you with? What was your company? M:	I was in 144th light trucking company. 144.

	W:	How long did you stay with them?



	M:	We left from there and went to Fort Gordon. We drove from there to Fort Gordon, Georgia. When we got there, we stayed there about six months or longer. Then they put us in the 700th truck battalion. Actually that was the same outfit, but they put is in a seven hundred battalion. Before we just had about a hundred something trucks. Might have been about a hundred and fifty. We had about 900 trucks of all kind. They give you a license, and on that license tell you what you can drive. If it’s not on your license you can’t drive it. On my license I could drive a two and a half ton truck. I could drive a [Inaudible 27:25]. That’s what they called it then, they didn’t call it a regular car. I could drive a thirty-seven passenger bus.

	W:	Did you have to know how to fix them too? Or you just drove them?



	M:	No you don’t just drive them. Every time you got on the field in that red clay in Georgia. You come back; you got to clean up from the bottom and the top. You got to clean that thing with a toothbrush, you got to get that thing sure enough clean. That red clay gets in there, but you got to get all of that out of there and they made sure you got it out of there too. I think they take us out there when its real rainy and real muddy, get it all muddied up. Then come back and you got to clean it like it was brand new.

	W:	So you learned how to fix it doing that?





	M:	No they wouldn’t let you fix it. I wasn’t in the mechanics. You assigned to a truck, you have to keep that thing like its new all the time. I don’t care how much mud you get on it, you got to get it off. Look just like its new all the time. They have inspections. You stand at the bumper of your truck when they having inspections, hold the hood up, tailgate down. If they find any dirt on it, they will write you up.

Also they had paint where you could paint if anything got scratched off, you can paint it. You had to keep it painted up, cleaned up, everything.

	W:	Did you have any other duties besides driving the truck, or that was your job?



	M:	Well let’s see, one time I was driving and the ration break down. I leave about four o’clock morning time go down and the ration break down. I was back up there to the place up there and they loaded it with the ration take it around to different barracks, scribbled it out. I did that for about two or three months driving the ration break down. After that they put me driving for the General. He was the general of the whole base.

	W:	What was his name?



	M:	Let’s see what the general was named. It’s a Captain’s name that keep coming up in mind. I can’t think of the general’s name right now. They started me driving for the general. On the fender of the car had two little poles sticking up and it had two- I think the flags were red on it; had two flags on it. When the General was in there you took those off. When you drove down the street everyone had to salute that car. If I forget to put that thing down over the flags, when I come down everybody had to come to attention and salute the car, even though the General





not even in there. When he’s not in there I was supposed to put the thing down over each one of those flags—

	W:	So they know not to salute?



	M:	Yeah but if he was in there and I had to take that off and everybody had to salute that car when we coming on. I drove with him for about two or three months. One day I couldn’t find him. On the posts you got to know all the buildings, they’re all numbered. The main posts theatre and a street that comes this way. This street here called Division Road, he was right in there. But every time I get to this number, it run out. The numbers run out and then I couldn’t find where he was at. I looked and looked. I come from one way and I looked, the numbers be going right. Just before I get there, the numbers changed. I missed picking him up one evening , that was the last time they let me drive for him. I finally found him, but I didn’t pick him up on time. I was glad to get rid of him, to tell the truth. See when you drive for a general or officer, either one, they have you carry a bunch of rags along with you and some wax. While he’s in the building you got to be wiping on the car. I don’t care how hot the sun is out there you got to keep wiping on the car. Sometimes he’d be in there like a half day, but you have to be out there in the hot sun wiping on the car. After that, I think I just started back making different runs out on the field. Taking soldiers out on the field. One time they brought the ROTC people out there so we could give them some training out on the field. We stayed out on the field for about two months. Those ROTC guys were dropping out every day, I mean flat flunking out. We were training them. But we stayed out on the field with them, for about two months.





	W:	How long were you at Fort Gordon?



	M:	I was there a long time. February or March we left Fort Rucker, Alabama in March. I believe it was in March- February or March we left Fort Rucker, Alabama and we went to Fort Gordon. I stayed there the whole rest of time I was in the military. Now we went to some other places, but we didn’t stay there. One time we went to Fort Stewart to pick up some trucks and we stayed there over night at Fort Stewart. That’s the longest we stayed there; overnight.

	W:	How did you end up getting out of the service? What happened?



	M:	I was glad to get out. When my time was up they told me to go down and check out. [Interruption]

	W:	Your term of service had ended. You were ready to leave Fort Gordon and come back to the real world.

	M:	Just before that time ended, I disobeyed an indirect order. W:	How do you disobey an indirect order?

	M:	An NCO had to give indirect orders, officers give direct orders. I disobeyed an indirect order. I had been driving a truck two days and a night. I drove one day all night and all day the next day. I come in to eat, I had just sat down. A Corporal told me “I want you to go out and get in that truck and go somewhere.’ I said “I just got here.” He said “I said for you to get in that truck.” He cursed at me. By the time I decided to go, it was too late. They said “You disobeyed an indirect order and you have to go see the Captain.” The Sergeant didn’t like me. He’d been in the military about thirty years. He was always trying to get something on me. I went to see the Captain, I come to attention. I went this way, got in front of the





officer, and saluted him. He said “At ease Mizell.” I did that. He said “I looked through your record.” All the time you’ve been here, you’ve been a real good soldier. “I’m not going to hold this against you this time.” “But you be careful not to do that no more. I’m not going to hold this against you cause it won’t be too long before you’ll be getting out.” He said “I’m not gonna hold it against you.” I went out the door. The Sergeant was out there walking up and down, waiting for me to come out. Soon as I come out, he run in there. He come out all dropped down. I was just laughing, but I didn’t want him to see me laughing. He run in there to see if I was going to get some time in prison, he was surprised the Captain didn’t charge me with it. I messed him good that time.

	W:	Do you recall that Captain’s name? M:	I forgot that captain’s name.

	W:	How about the Sergeant?



	M:	I don’t know what his name is either. I know one thing, he didn’t like me. W:	Were you able to finish the rest of your term without problems?

	M:	Yeah, I got more careful then.



	W:	So you were discharged, you left Fort Gordon. What did you do then? M:	I went on back to Maxwell Brothers, same place I left.

	W:	So you came back as a veteran, you had your benefits, you had everything.



What did you decide to do?



	M:	I decided I would do a little farming. Then I decided I would go to school under the GI Bill and take up Agriculture. That didn’t work out too good. I couldn’t make





it on that little bit of money they paid. I got out from under it. Told them I didn’t want to be involved anymore.

	W:	Where were you going to school before you stopped?



	M:	J.R. Lee High School. That’s the name of the school in the town. J.R. Lee High School.

	W:	Do you remember the first time you ever voted?



	M:	First time I ever voted I was eighteen years old. I was always with my uncle, the one who had the heart attack and died, John. He told me “We going to vote.” “Every time had an election we gonna vote.” I always went with him. I started voting when I was eighteen years old and I voted every year. My uncle said “You might throw it in the trash can, but we would going to vote anyway.”

	W:	Why was voting so important to you and your uncle? Why was it so important to you and your uncle?

	M:	My uncle?



	W:	Why was it so important to vote?



	M:	Well it was a privilege we never could do before. Some people do all kinds of things to keep you from voting. But my uncle said, “If it’s an election, me and you gonna vote.” And we went too.

	W:	What kind of stuff did they do to keep you from voting?



M:  I really can’t tell you right now, but I know they do a lot of things to keep you from voting. Folks try to scare you off and everything. Me and my uncle didn’t pay it no mind, we was going to vote whether they scared us off or not.

W:   Do you remember the first person you voted for?





	M:	No I don’t remember that.



	W:	But you just know you voted?



	M:	But I’ve been voting ever since. I vote in every election and I still do.



	W:	Have you ever thought about some of the difficulties that other people had in the South to vote? Whether it was somebody trying to scare them or somebody burned the cross or anything like that. Did any of those things happen around here that you were aware of?

	M:	No, I don’t know anything like that. I sure don’t.



	W:	Do you remember where you were when students started sitting at the lunch counters to try to be served?

	M:	I was right here in Lake City. During that time I was working out on the airplanes. We were working on the airplanes out back this way. There was a guy there from Valdosta. In Valdosta they integrated their college in 1958. He raised all kind of sand about integrating, the lunch counter thing here. He was a tall young guy. I told him right in front of a bunch of the rest of them, “Why are you raising so much sand about the integrating the school and everything?” “When they integrated that college in Valdosta in 1958,” I said, “that’s right where you from.” I got him good; he didn’t have nothing else to say after that.

	W:	Was it a big disturbance around here?



	M:	Yes, it was a big disturbance around here during that time. Sure was.



	W:	Where was the place that the lunch counter was here in town that people were trying to sit in?





	M:	Right up there in Blanchard Hotel, they had a soda bar in there. That was one of the lunch counters right there.

	W:	Was it the soda—?



	M:	Yeah. That’s where he was at.



	W:	But it was at the Blanchard Hotel?



	M:	No it was in the Blanchard hotel where he was at, yeah. W:	Did you ever go there?

	M:	No.



	W:	No? Why not?



	M:	I was always working somewhere. I belonged to the NAACP. I was the first lifetime member in Columbia County. We got about fifty-eight lifetime members now but I was one of the first ones. I actually was the first one. I was the first lifetime member of the NAACP in Colombia County.

	W:	In what year did you do your lifetime membership?



	M:	1987. I always wanted to get in an organization that was doing something. I didn’t want to get in an organization that wasn’t doing nothing. One time I was in the Masons. They weren’t doing nothing and I got out of it. I said “I want to be in some organization that’s doing something.”

	W:	What was it about the NAACP that made you think they were doing something?



	M:	This lady named Something-or-Other Wells. I can’t think of her name, but she was on a post stamp not long ago.

	W:	Ida B. Wells?





	M:	Ida B. Wells. She was riding the train somewhere back in the [19]40s. She was up there in the front part. They told her she couldn’t ride up there. So she got out and went walking. You remember up in California where they loaded some ships at, and they exploded?

	W:	Yes sir, they made all the Black dock workers, they court marshaled them.



	M:	This lady she went to Washington and got all their sentences overturned, but two. That little old lady right by herself. I said, “This organization is doing something.” I always wanted to be an organization that’s doing something. I don’t want to be doing nothing.

	W:	So you actually met her?



	M:	No I never met her. But I think the NAACP is a really good organization. It’s not really a Black organization; we help White people and Black people right here in Lake City. It’s for justice as long as you’re right. If you not right we can’t bother with you. As long as you’re right, it’s for justice and its real good at that too.

	W:	You were in the military when all the stuff happened with Harry T. Moore, but have you followed with any of the NAACP’s programs honoring Harry T. Moore?

M:  No, but I’ve been real active with the NAACP. I went a whole lot of places with them. We went to Pensacola, Florida about five or six years ago. About every week they killed some Black person. We went up there and this Black senator from Miami might be some representative, what’s his name?

W:   You talking about either Kerry Meek or Kendrick Meek.



	M:	Yeah, he was up there. Some lawyers or some judges was up there. The police department didn’t have no Blacks in the department. They said they were going





to have some kind of police review board. We also went to Fernandina, Florida for something we were involved in down there. Every year NAACP have something at Disney World. I went there four or five times. NAACP is an organization that’s doing something and always have did things to help people who were in the right. It always was a good organization. I’m old myself, but I wanted to help anyone else I could help to.

	W:	I’m going to ask you about some historical events, if you would just give me your reflections of what you were doing when these things happened. When John Kennedy was assassinated?

	M:	When John Kennedy was assassinated me and another lady was working in the dining room at the VA Hospital. They don’t have one now, but they had one then. Me and another lady were working in the dining room and there was a television and we saw it at the time it happened. Me and her were working in the dining room that day.

	W:	What was it like in Lake City when it happened? How did people react that you remember?

	M:	I know we had a supervisor there and he said he was glad of it. Somebody warned him it was the President that he was speaking of, and that he could be arrested for saying such thing as that. So he kind of quieted down but he first said he was glad of it.

	W:	How about when Dr. King was assassinated?



	M:	I was going to school in Gainesville then a Man Power Program at Santa Fe Junior College at that time.





	W:	How did you hear about it?



	M:	I don’t know. We had a TV over there. Anyway, that’s where I was at. I don’t know exactly how I heard about it, but that’s where I was at. In Gainesville right off from where the Courthouse is that’s where Santa Fe Junior College was at during that time. It wasn’t over by the highway where it is now.

	W:	How about when they landed on the moon for the first time. Do you remember where you were?

	M:	I don’t believe they landed on there yet. [Laughter]



	W:	It’s funny you said that. We talked to somebody earlier today that said the same thing. A lot of people don’t believe we landed on the moon.

	M:	The rocket they claimed they went to the moon went, compare it with the rockets that got now. That’s like a t-model compared to a new Cadillac. I just don’t believe they went. I’ve been to Cape Canaveral two, three times down there. I went to the place and they showed the thing they claimed they went to the moon in. I told the guy that thing don’t look like we could fit in it. He told me “This is just a replica of it, this isn’t the real thing.” I said “That thing won’t fit. You’re too big.” [Inaudible 50:48]

	W:	Do you believe that now they’ve gone to the moon and come back? M:	No. You ain’t went to no moon.

	W:	So you don’t think they ever went?



	M:	It’s 225,000 miles to the moon. The highest orbit they got now is only 200 and something miles, it ain’t 225,000. The moon is 225,000 miles away from the





Earth and the highest they got now is where the Space Shuttle is. It’s only 200 something miles above the Earth. That’s a long way from 225,000.

	W:	What do you think they gained by telling people they went and really not going if that’s true?

	M:	They just wanted Russia to think that we were ahead of them that’s what it was all about. We weren’t because Russia put that first satellite called Sputnik up there and we hadn’t put up nothing like that.

	W:	What did you think about Barack Obama being elected President?



	M:	I mean he’s a real smart man. I was real glad to know that a Black could reach this stage in the United States. Now people can’t say you can only get but so high. But Barack Obama is a real smart man. I say that because he wrote two books and got $25 million out of it. He way smarter than me. I never thought of nothing good like that.

	W:	Do you think he’s kind of having a hard time though?



	M:	Look at how the other President messed him up, he inherited it. Before he left, Bush said “Why this thing had to fall on my watch.” Bush was intending for it to fall on the next president, but it fell on him before he had the chance to get out of office. This president, he inherited so much stuff, if he ever get out from under all the stuff Bush had going on, he’d be lucky. I think him and his wife both are smart. Obama’s wife, the year he got to be President made $700,000 herself.

	W:	We’re sitting in your beautiful home that you built yourself. I was wondering if you could talk a little about how you built it and why you built your home yourself?





	M:	I could never find anything the real estate showed me that I was interested in. All they ever showed me was about the size of this room. They said “This is all you could afford.” I said ‘Well that might be all I can afford, but that ain’t what I want.’ I want something that look better than this. I want a big house ; a nice looking house. I said “I would build it myself.’ I also went out to college and took a Brick Masonry course before I started. After I did that I was ready to build. I figured like this, my theory about things. First find out where you want to go. Next find out how you’re going to get there. I studied how to build this house and how I was going to get it built and everything. It worked just like I planned it out. Maybe I shouldn’t tell you this part though. The place I got the materials from I owed them twelve thousand dollars. I had ten years to pay it off and I paid it off in four. Four years I paid it off.

	W:	You’ve been married for fifty-six years. You’ve been living in a house you built yourself for twenty-nine years. You’ve been in the military. You have four children. What kind of lesson do you think your life can leave for younger people?

	M:	Well, my life for young people? W:	Yes sir.

	M:	I read this thing what this guy Davis, what used to own Winn Dixie, he said “Stay away from the courthouse you can’t make no money there.” [Laughter] That’s my theory. Stay away from the courthouse, that’s the wrong place. Live your life in a way that you stay out of trouble. A lot of people sit around idle and that’s how you get a lot of trouble. It’s best to just find you something to do and always stay busy. When I was young I did a lot of fishing. I got too old to launch the boat now.





I got a big boat sitting right there but I’m too old to launch it now. But when I was younger I did a lot of fishing. You see the fish up down there?

	W:	Yes sir, I see this.



	M:	I fished all about in the ocean. All around the ocean, everywhere. I caught a whole lot of fish. I got it stored around here in some of these books but I don’t know which one it’s in; where I caught a whole lot of fish.

	W:	Mr. Mizell it’s been an honor to sit with you in your home and talk to you about your life story. I hope that we can come back and talk to you again sometime. On behalf of the Oral History Program we thank you, both myself and my colleague Deborah Hendrix who’s behind the camera. I’d just like to conclude the interview with that thanks. I ask you if there’s anything you’d want to say: your reflections on the interview, or something you that you didn’t get a chance to say that you planned on. Please go ahead and make those comments.

	M:	No, that’s all right. I just wanted to do whatever you wanted to talk about. That’s all I wanted to do: whatever you wanted to talk about.

	W:	Thank you very much. M:	All right.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Andre Everette



	Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, June 29, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 16, 2019