AAHP 424; Clyburn; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 424 Thomas Clyburn African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Vicki Oldham on August 24, 2015 53 minutes | 30 pages



Abstract: Mr. Thomas Clyburn reflects on his life experiences growing up in Newtown, Florida, a black community in Sarasota. Mr. Clyburn reflects how despite segregation, his community was thriving and he enjoyed his childhood. He discusses in detail the process of being selected to integrate Sarasota High School and leave Booker High School. He was the first Black male student to do so. He expresses his confusion and verbal abuse he received at the school. He also spoke of his teachers and principal at Booker and the bus driver who took him to Sarasota High School and how they really helped him get through this time in his life. He was encouraged to continue his education and he earned his doctorate in education administration.



Keywords: [Newtown, Florida; Integration; Florida Black History; African American History]



Standards

	SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws

	SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.





































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 424 (Newtown Oral History Project) Interviewee: Thomas Clyburn

Interviewer: Vicki Oldham Date: August 24, 2015



	C:	And—for what its worth—life has been both good and bad, depending on who you are. I can look back over the times when I was a lot younger and certainly a teenager and before that, in fact. And look at the people that I’ve known. And while we think today is the best of times, there were times before the times that we have today that were much better. And I’m gonna say it that way because…and I’m not knocking integration, don’t get me wrong. I’m not knocking integration, because that’s what—the conversation is about integration. But before there was what we call the “integrated environment” and “diverse environment” that we live in now, before that, we had separate groups of people. Not knowingly, when we were kids, White kids and Black kids played together.

Not every place—some places. I can remember when I was probably ten-eleven years old, St. Moffat’s School was on Orange Avenue, right off 10th, I believe.

And there was a rule there, and the Catholic School was strictly White, predominant—it was a White school, maybe it was a few Hispanics, but there were no Blacks. But in the back of that place was a ball diamond. And we kids stayed near that. This is Overtown, this is the part of town that most people have forgotten about now. And we boys used to go out there and play. We used to have our own basketball court, and certainly there was the basketball curt for the school, but they had one goal set up in the corner somewhere. And we played on that a lot, but there was a ball diamond. And we Black kids—boys especially, we played ball almost every day. Seven days a week. If we didn’t go to church, we went to play ball. That’s where it was. I mean, Mom knew, “We’re gone for the





day!” “Okay, where you gonna be?” “On the diamond.” And that’s where we were. Most times, Moms didn’t worry about their kids. We played ball seven days a week. Interestingly, these little boys had come out in little blue pants and little black pants with the white shirts, would sit there in the corner and look at us playing around the buildings. And finally a few of them got nerve enough to come out and wanna play with us. “Hey. Can you play?” “Yeah.” “Okay. Get out there, and play.” Started playing together! We started doing that on a regular basis.

Until some of the, either parents, teachers—and the teachers certainly were nuns—saw us playing together. And that was a cardinal sin. Literally, cardinal sin. I remember these people coming out and yanking these kids off the diamond and taking them in, “You can’t play with those kids, blah blah blah blah blah.” And it dawned on me, something is wrong here. We’re just playing. What’s going on? Now I didn’t understand segregation, because I lived in a community that was all Black, and I went downtown with my Mom and Dad on the weekends, and window shopped. And there’s a little story behind all that, but, and, one of the people that always came to our house—well there was several—but one of the people that came to our house was a city police officer, by the name of Jack Lear. Jack Lear and my Dad were military together, World War 2. They both came to Florida together. In fact, my Dad was based out of Sarasota—the international airport was not that airport at that time. It was a military base. It was a training base. And my Dad was one of those—he was an electrician. Not many people know all of those stories, but he was one of those. And he was there from





’42 to ’45, rebuilding, repairing plants. They would go out in the Gulf and over the Sebring—Avon Park area and drop bombs. And come back and land.

	O:	Let me back up, Dr. Clyburn. Today’s date is August 24, and we are here talking to, what’s your name?

	C:	Bill Clyburn, most people know me as Bill Clyburn. I am Thomas William Clyburn. O:	And, you were born?

	C:	11/19/1947.



	O:	And who were your parents? C:	Elise and Thomas Clyburn.

	O:	And you were about to tell us why did the Clyburns come to Sarasota?



	C:	Well, originally my dad was in the military. My mom is from Manatee County. My dad met my mom at the entertainment place that the Blacks developed because of World War 2 and segregation of the MCO clubs on the military bases at the airport. My dad was one of those that started—my dad was a singer. Actually sand with the, surprisingly, Dinah Washington in New York.

	O:	He did?



	C:	Yes, sir. Yes, ma’am!



	O:	Okay. Tell us more about that base there, because I think one other person has mentioned that the base was there and this was some sort of facility, where we are now, it was a USO where the soldiers would come to relax and enjoy themselves. Well, talk about those things.

	C:	I can’t tell you much about that part of it, other than I know one of the things that happened was, my dad was one of those people, being a New Yorker, he’s used





to seeing things differently than down here. Being in the military, he assumed that was still okay and went into one of those places on Bates, [he] wasn’t allowed. And he was not happy, he was not a happy camper

	O:	How do you know?



	C:	My mom used to tell us the stories about what my dad would do. My dad and some others decided they were gonna start their own facility. Singing, music, everything. My dad had a bar on 6th Street and Central, but it was upstairs. My Dad had a twenty one-piece band. Orchestra. Yep.

	O:	That he started here in Sarasota? C:	Yep.

	O:	What was the name of it?



	C:	I don’t remember but it was, I have a picture of him standing in front of a CBS WFLA—what’s the Sarasota station now?

	O:	WSB.



	C:	No, that wasn’t—it was something. W-P- I’ll think of that. O:	I used to work there. (Laughs)

	C:	It’s not that one. That’s the newer version, it was something else. O:	Oh, okay.

	C:	But it was the CBS affiliate here for radio station. And he sang there. And he had his own band, twenty one-piece band. Because I as a kid, I remember getting up on the band stage. And piano, drums, seats, everything in front, mic in front. And on the mic in front of him, and a picture of him standing right in front with the mic…





	O:	At his bar?



	C:	Yep!



	O:	What was the name of it?



	C:	I can’t remember. I can tell you where it is. O:	Where was it?

	C:	If you go to Central Avenue, 6th Street. Take a right. Altman Chevrolet, which is Sunset Chevrolet now, used to own all that property. There was a building right now as you turn right, westward, toward Coconut. The first building you meet is a plumbing place. A plumbing place and I believe there’s a church on the corner.

But the plumbing place, upstairs, is where the bar used to be.



	O:	Okay. You grew up in the Overtown area, but later than Mr. Brown. C:	Yep, oh yeah.

	O:	What do you remember about growing up there?



	C:	It was great. It was great. We had our own movie house. Had our own stores.



People knew you. People go from place to place without worry about what place—getting in trouble, because everybody knew everybody. Everybody knew whose kid you are—oh, you’re Tom’s dad. You’re Tom’s son—you’re little Tom. Yeah, I was always little Tom. Everybody knew me as Little Tom. Nobody called me Bill Clyburn until high school.

	O:	Who were your friends?



	C:	One of ‘em, was his wife! (Laughs) ‘Cause she stayed so close. We grew up together.

	O:	Dawn Brown. Well I don’t know what her maiden name was at the time.





	C:	We used to call her Tina. Emily… O:	Emily?

	C:	Yes. Yep, its been a long, long time. But I can remember people like Larry Taylor, was a year older. Jerry Brown was a year older. I always hung out with the older guys. I hung out with Roy Johnson, Floyd Johnson, they were my age. I mean we were all really proximity wise, we were close to one or two years’ difference in age. Herbert Gaynor played basketball, two or three years older.

Died very young. He was one of our guys we went to as little guys to learn to play basketball. He was always able to play.

	O:	I’m wanting to find out more about this story you told me about you being the one person that was chosen to participate in this pilot program at Sarasota High, to integrate Sarasota High School. I’m really interested in that story. Tell me about how that came about, and why that came about.

	C:	I have no idea how I got chosen. I really don’t. Other than I walked into a room full of dignitaries, both principals of the school. Rogers, at the time. A few others, Dupree was there Some people I knew facially, but didn’t necessarily interact with them a lot. And there were some others who were there who were White that, I didn’t have a clue. There was a chair sitting in the middle of the floor. And they were sitting around in the shadows. And the principal’s desk was in the front.

	O:	And you were how old? C:	16. Sixteen years old. O:	How did you feel?





	C:	First off, when they called my name over the PA system, I was nervous. I thought I was in trouble. As always, when somebody when they get mainly called to the principal’s office, its always, not a good sign. I’m thinking, what did I do now? And I’ve never been a troublemaker but I’ve been one of those kinda people that sometimes you speak when you shouldn’t. Have your own opinions. Its good to be a politician, but not to be in school and speaking your mind publicly.

O:  Did you hear the conversations they were having about you sitting in the—you didn’t understand them, you don’t remember those conversations but the next thing you know, what was happening next?

	C:	They were talking about—we have this idea that things are gonna change in the near future. We’re gonna start to plan on changing the school. We’re going to integrate Sarasota County. Words like that at 16 didn’t mean anything to me. I’m thinking—I gotta get out of here and see my friends. I’m not thinking about all of this. But I’m the only one there, and, “What’s your thoughts on all of this?” I have no clue. I’m 16 years old, what am I supposed to know? He said, “Well next year, we’re gonna try this new experiment. We’re gonna plan on you going to another school for a little while. Yeah, OK.

	O:	And you were at Booker at that time?



	C:	Yeah, I was at Booker. I was in my 10th grade year. And the story goes on and on, talking and this and that. And I can hear them debating among themselves, I still didn’t understand because nobody’s giving me any clue what really is happening. And so eventually it came down to, you’ll be going in the mornings over there, and coming back here in the afternoon. I guess that was the





negotiations at some point. Because I was an athlete. I was already on the baseball team. Brown’s not gonna let me go. I’m in the band, Covington’s not gonna let me go. I’m playing music, I’m in the band, I’m doing all these things. I can do a lot. As you were just talking as I was out there, he said, “You still running? You still in shape?’ I said nah, not really. Not anymore. So he knows, I used to be a great—I was an athlete. I was a real, I took care of myself.

	O:	Did anybody, did your mom and dad try to explain it to you?



	C:	My dad had already passed, [19]60. My mom, I don’t believe quite got the gist of what was going on. In fact, I don’t even think they told her the story that they need to tell her the truth, because there’s one side of this that not many people know. Henry Porter and I are still close friends. We still communicate. In fact, I’m gonna see him next month. We still hang out. We still talk and reminisce a little bit, and we talk about what’s going on today. We were talking not too long ago in his car as we were going to another luncheon together. And I asked him, I said, “Henry—by chance did your mom and dad talk to you about going to Sarasota High School back when I was?” And he said, “Yeah, there’s thirteen of us.” Thirteen! What do you mean thirteen, there’s only me and Wilhelmina. He said, ““ No, it was thirteen. All of us. Remember we had that little group of us that were really smart, you know that small group that kept pushing us?” I said, “Yeah.” “They were gonna take all of us to Sarasota High School to show people that we could do what we could do. But my mom says, over her dead body. Not gonna happen.” I said, “What do you mean by that?” He said, “My mom was terrified.

She wasn’t gonna let me go there. She was afraid that something was gonna





happen.” And thinking back now, after he said that, now I’m 50-plus, 60-plus later, makes a lot of sense. So my mom didn’t know. My mom would have probably let it happen. It would not have happened.

	O:	So the day came that it was to happen: Set it up for us.



	C:	First day of school, like it is today, most places in the state. You go on campus, Booker High School, and I’m supposed to wait outside the office, the main office front door, in the old school building. Everybody’s passing me through the doors, the seniors are going to their doors, the other underclassmen are going by the lunchroom, down the halls, and going to class. And all of a sudden there’s nobody left but me standing. And then all of a sudden you see this big yellow Blue Bird school bus making a big loop, coming around. It finally stops right where I’m standing, the door swings open and this guy says, “Are you Thomas Clyburn?” I said, “Yes, sir.” “Get on, you’re going with me. We’re on our way to school.” I didn’t say anything, I got on. Got in. Second seat, not the first. I said the second seat. I sat on the right side of the bus. He didn’t say anything, I didn’t say anything. Close the door and he drove, he turned left, went back north, jumped on Myrtle, come out here to the corner, there was no traffic light then. Take a right, start south, going toward downtown. And my little brain’s spinning now—I don’t know what’s going on. I don’t understand any of this. I really don’t. I see places I know—this recreational area goes first, and then 27th Street, you see that, you know that. Then 19th, I know where that is because I live in that general area. And down to the traffic light that is, 10th street?

	O:	Mm-hmm. 10th Street. Where IHOP is.





	C:	Yeah, on the corner. And my dad’s buried over in that cemetery there. Can’t find his gravesite, because the stone’s missing. I don’t know why, but its not there.

But anyway, my dad’s buried there, I’m thinking about that. Then we get downtown and I remember the courthouse. I’ve been down that way. My dad and I used to walk every Sunday he would take me with him to work. Work at the Life of Georgia Insurance Company cleaning. And I remembered passing by the courthouse, passing by the building now, which is the government building, which is the old motel for the Chicago White Sox? It used to be the home of the baseball team. And then, Payne Park. Ice cream parlor was always there—

	O:	Dairy Queen?



	C:	Dairy Queen was always there. And then we’d go by the Herald Tribune— O:	Yes!

	C:	And then, there’s this big, stoic building we’re passing by but slowing down. I’m thinking well the traffic’s pretty bad, and all of a sudden, he pulls into the left lane, the driver, and he goes and makes this big arch to the drive way, to the drive through. And all these cars, and all these kids, and all this noise. I’m thinking my God, what’s going on here? And I’m looking at all these cars and thinking, “My God, it’s a lot of teachers here.” Those were the kids’ cars. I’m thinking, “Holy crap. My friends don’t have a car.” Between a hundred seniors, juniors, and sophomores, we don’t have one of us have a car even to drive. And I’m looking at all these cars out here, all kinds of cars and stuff. And he slowly pulls all around and gets to the south end door of the main building. And he says, “We’re here.” He says, “I will meet you on the northern end of this hall way you’re gonna





walk through, after lunch. You’ll see the bus. I’m down that way, I’ll pick you up.” I remember having penny loafers, and I used to remember putting dimes in my penny loafer on the top of it. I remember looking down at them, and I remember stepping off the bus. And I remember all these girls were just chattering, just talking away, just going at it. And all of a sudden one girl’s head turned around and her eyes kind of flew up, and then all of a sudden her friends turned around, everybody’s watching, and all of a sudden the talk stops. And I’m slowly getting off the bus. And finally getting off the bus, he closes the door. He drives away.

And now I’m standing by myself. What do I do? Do I ask, or just walk up and open that door and walk in? And as soon as I walk in there is these wood floors. Now these kids behind me outside have stopped talking, its quiet. Its absolutely dead quiet, still cars running by, but the kids are quiet. And I walk into the hallway, and I can see the stairwell going up. Kids on the stairwell there. Lockers on the left, rooms on the left. All the way down, and people talking. But now I’m walking. And all of a sudden, I can hear my footsteps. Around all these folks, I can hear my footsteps. And the next thing you know, I could feel my heart rate, pulse right here (makes pounding sounds.) No exaggeration, I can feel that. But I’m gonna stay the course. I’m not gonna bend my head down or look at my shoes anymore and look straight ahead. I am not going—

	O:	You didn’t know where you were going! You were just walking!



	C:	I was just walking. And I walked from one end to the other. The other end happened to have the administration sign up. So I knew I had to go in there to at least get started. I walked in there and someone behind the counter looked up





and saw me and said, “Oh! Oh! Come on in, come on in, come on in.” And she raced out and went into the office, the principal came out, “Welcome, welcome, welcome. Come on in, have a seat, sit down.” And then, you know, it was quiet. All the way down. All the way down. And finally, he went somewhere and came back, and brought a person with him, who would be my homeroom teacher at the time, and also my science, one of my science teachers. Electronics teachers.

And his name was O’Dell, I don’t remember his first name. I do remember him being military retired navy, so. That’s much I know, ‘cause we talked a little before, and I remember certain things. But I went in that first day and I sat in his classroom. Actually it was two separate sections of that classroom. There were wooden chairs on one side, facing the wall. And a board behind. There was a board in front of me when we walked in the door, long metal tables. All kinds of electronic gear on top. So I sat there. I was comfortable there, ‘cause, you know, I’m thirteen years old at the time. I was able to repair schematics and stuff when I was thirteen years old, so I’m—I’m no dummy. (Laughs) I was a pretty sharp guy. And I had a couple classes I had to take with him over there, a few electronics classes. Physics class, which is what I took.

	O:	How was your acclimation? I mean did you have friends? Did you make friends? C:	I tried. And I think I had less than that.

	O:	Five?



	C:	Less than that. I know I had one, his name was Bob Parti. He was a dwarf. He had extremely long arms, everything normal about him, shorter legs. But he was, he was like me. He was disadvantaged. (Laughs) You know, and they tried to





treat him differently. So he just, we adapted. He sat with me at the high table, its two of us at a table. And there’s 1-2-3-4-5-6, maybe eight tables. So there’s potentially sixteen boys in this class, sixteen students. All of us were boys at the time. But I never got to really know any of the others except Bob. Because he was different. And we hung out together a little bit, not much. And he was making sure that he didn’t lose his friends, because he was starting to, mate himself to me. And I understood that, truly, I did. And we talked a lot when there were others around, we talked a little bit about all of it. How he felt about himself, it was just different. It was totally different.

	O:	That day, that someone fired in the air. Wanna talk about that? What happened? C:	Its been a while, schools been going on now apparently a lot of name calling and trash throwing out of, because I go out the north door. I didn’t wanna go down the

hall, that’s why the bus driver had me come out the back door.



	O:	Oh, the north door was the back door?



	C:	Yes. For me it was. South Door was the main entry door. I went out the other door. So I didn’t have t walk down the hall to get back out. So the name calling had started to crop up in there. ‘Cause kids are going home and saying, “Mom, guess what. Guess who was in our school today.” You know? And they’re bringing me messages back, calling me all kinds of names. You need to go get your spear, you need to go back and hang out with your other friends, apes, and all this stuff, and nigger this, and all of that. And I’m thinking, you know I’m stronger than that. I’m not gonna put up with any of this stuff. If anyone touches me, we’re gonna be on the floor. I’m not worried about that part. That part I





wasn’t worried about. But over time, it gets to you. What I learned to do was stay internal, stay to myself, do my job, do what I was supposed to do. Get my work, and try to make anything out of anything. Just stay away. I didn’t have lunch with anyone, I didn’t do anything. I would go out of lunch, go to lunch by myself. I would go down to the white tower on the corner, on Bahia Vista, used to be on the corner?

	O:	Right, Bahia Vista and 41, right right right. C:	I used to go there for lunch.

	O:	From what time to what time were you there at Sarasota High School? C:	8:30 ‘til probably one.

	O:	Who’s the principal? C:	Gene Pallet.

	O:	But you did tell me about the time that a shot was fired? C:	This is probably October [19]63.

	O:	After, how long had you been at Sarasota High School?



	C:	Not very long. Maybe a month? Maybe a month. Maybe a month. I don’t remember.

	O:	So set it up. Tell us about—



	C:	I do remember always coming in that north end door rather than coming in the south end door, after the bus driver and I had an agreement. Hey, I’m not walking in this maze everyday. Let’s do something else. Can I come in that door that you leave me with? And he said no problem, I’ll drive around there. So I would go in that door, and my classroom is on the first floor, first building, first door on the





right. On the left as you come in the north door. And I remember this one particular day, this kid was walking up with a German Shepherd, and on the steps. It didn’t flash to me, I tried to ignore most of that kind of stuff. I see it, I scan it quickly, and move on. I don’t have time to worry about these knuckleheads. But I’m sitting in my—so he knows where I’m sitting. Everybody’s figured out where I’m sitting in the room. I’m not moving around and avoiding— I’m sitting in the same place everyday. And it just so happens to be the place that I’m sitting, there’s a cubby for equipment, but also a wall that is adjacent to the bathroom next to the, the bathroom on the side of the building. And back in the days, we didn’t have all the insulation and protection in there, it was just a plain old, you know, its not much in there.

	O:	Okay.



	C:	And I remember this shot going off, or something going off in the room next to me. And it going—(Makes sound) Yeah, behind me. And then the next thing I know, there’s 6 to 8 adult men standing in the front door of the classroom and says, “Get up! Get in the middle! Don’t say anything. Keep up with us.” I’m thinking, what did I do now? And they take me out, take me down the principal’s office. Principal said, you sit in my office, I’m closing the door until I come back. Don’t leave tis room. That was the end of the story for me, for that. But it had been a while, so they had it probably be locked down. And they had the police there, looking for the person who shot the gun. And you know, kids talking, eventually, they probably found the person I don’t know.

	O:	Did you ever find out the reason?





	C:	I can tell you what the principal said after all was done that morning, before I left.



He said, “You know we had an incident in Birmingham, Alabama, four girls getting bombed, just recently. He said this will not be another Selma and Alabama.” So that ought to tell you a lot about where people’s heads were at the time. And, you know, again, I’m sixteen, sixteen and a half now. I’m not sure about what all this is all about, and all the stuff that’s going on. And I’m sure the world’s getting crazy but I’m not into that. I’m into sports, girls, everything else. I don’t have time for this. But I didn’t think it was important, but I knew something was not right because it kept getting worse for me with the kids.

	O:	How did it get worse? I mean, that sounds—



	C:	Isolation, talk, you know. Everyday I’d walk out of my classroom to catch the bus, they’d throw things out at me from the 2nd floor windows. All the time. Throw paper, trash, garbage cans, you know they’re sitting in the classroom. You know there’s a teacher there in the classroom, its gonna be a teacher in that classroom up there.

	O:	At no point did you say, you know Mom, please, I can’t deal with this anymore?



	C:	No, I never told my Mom the story. She died without ever hearing the story. She never knew. My mom never knew about the story.

	O:	You didn’t share it with anybody? C:	Nope, nope. Oh, I did.

	O:	Your experiences at that time?



	C:	I shared my experiences with the bus driver, and he was the most intellectually saving grace person I met at the time.





	O:	What’s his name? C:	Robert Graham.

	O:	And you said that he would take you to places and y’all would talk?



	C:	Mm hmm. Out of all that happening during that time, I got to the point where I was tired of confronting that. And I told him one day, “I really don’t wanna go here today.” He says, “Why not?” I said, “I really don’t.” He says, “Okay, I’ll tell you what. Lets go for a little ride.” And its interesting, he took me all the way down to Venice, to Venice Beach. And we sat there. We crossed the bridge to Venice Beach and we’re in this, the old Volkswagen Camper buses, you know the old ones they used to have. Instead of driving the big Blue Bird, he got this now, so its just the two of us. And he eventually let me drive it. He’s letting me drive it, he’s teaching me to drive a stick. So I’m driving a stick and we’re talking. So we’re going—and you know its against the rules and all of this stuff. But I’m learning. And he was probably the most insightful person that I met about this whole thing. Probably wasn’t high school graduate, but he was pretty insightful.

He said, “Listen. Let me tell you something. What you’re going through right now has been gone through before. But I’ll tell you this. If you can get through this, you’re gonna change the whole way this community looks at people like you.

May not he agreeable to it, but you’re gonna be the benchmark for everything that’s happened from this point on, trust me.” And I didn’t understand it at the time, I still don’t in some ways, but he said, “Stay with it. I’ll be here for you.

When you don’t feel like going in, let me know. We’ll figure out a plan. We’ll do something else. But I need you to stay with it.” And I stayed out of class over





there for almost a month, three weeks, a month. And finally someone called from Sarasota to Booker, and that’s where I was, in the mornings. I would go in and hide in the music room, and I had my clarinet out, and I’d practice my clarinet for three hours. Practice, practice. Oh, Ms. Covington knew I was there, but she’s not gonna say anything, I’m getting better.

	O:	Right.



	C:	And I’m sure that—



	O:	You didn’t go to school for a month at Sarasota and nobody knew?



	C:	Somebody knew something, but they didn’t, they didn’t push it. And Dupree called me in the office one morning and said, “Okay. What’s going on?”

	O:	Reverend Jerome Dupree.



	C:	Right. Yep, yep. Je was the principal there. And he said, “What’s going on?” Because Rogers had already been moved out of there. And I told him what’s going on and he says, “You’re going through a lot. Its pretty painful at times, but you’re gonna survive this. You’ll be okay. You’ll be stronger for it, because life is not gonna change for you. Even when you become an adult, its gonna be the same thing. You just gotta find a way to internalize and move on. And be stronger. Make it strong. Work with it, make it yours. Own it.” And I, and interestingly over the years since that, I been through a lot of particulars and had the same kind of circumstance and still was able to do it. So—

	O:	You made it through that experience, Dr. Clyburn? C:	Yeah, yeah. I did okay.

	O:	Flying colors?





	C:	Yeah, you know, I won’t say “flying colors.” I got through it! I got through it. I think I left my mark on many people that I interacted with, both positive and some really not so positive. But I got through it—

	O:	You say not so positive. Is that include any fights?



	C:	No, ‘cause no one was—I wasn’t afraid. I wasn’t afraid to fight. (Laughs) I guess that was one of the reasons I caught fire. (Laughs) I used to fight everyday before I reached my high school years, I used to fight everyday. I used to be a—I wasn’t a thug, but I was a pretty tough kid. I used to fight a lot. My first fight was in 2nd grade. When a friend of mine there is still alive and we laugh about it now. My very first fight. And we had a fight again in 10th grade, too, same guy. For silly things, but, you know, we grew out of that. But the thing is today when you talk about fighting today, I don’t ever hear about anybody getting murdered or a drive- by fist fight. There’s been no drive-by fist fights.

	O:	No fist fights. That was the operative word. You went on from Booker and graduated—

	C:	Went to MJC.



	O:	Uh huh.



	C:	And the same kinds of particulars happened there. O:	Same kind?

	C:	Very much the same kind of things except now you have a little bit larger minority population. In fact, the year before I got here, my first year, my second year, my cousin was there, was already there in his sophomore year. And he left and I was the sophomore. But I was there at the MJC, I was on the baseball team at





booker, but wasn’t allowed to play baseball at Sarasota, and then when I tried out for the team at—

	O:	MJC. Manatee Junior College. C:	The baseball coach—

	O:	You couldn’t do it? He wouldn’t let you on? C:	No.

O:  There was another lady that was at Sarasota High, too— C:  (inaudible) Armstrong.

O:   You never saw her?



	C:	Never saw her, never saw her, two years we were there. Together. We were classmates over at Booker. Never saw her. Never saw her once. I think it was intentional, to keep us separate to see how we manage ourselves going forward. I don’t know if that, you know I’m just speculating. But it almost seems to be that way because I never got a chance to see her at any point.

O:   Did you ever talk to her about her experience? Later in life?



C:   Later in life. We didn’t talk much about it because she still had some effects of it. In a negative way. Me, like I said, I was pretty strong character. I didn’t let people get in my way. If I had to fight—I was a fighter. I was never afraid. I always fought the bigger kids so, you know fighting kids my size was no big deal.

O:  Now that you’ve, tell us what you’ve done since you left this area? You’re administrator at a university, right?

C:   I was.



O:   Retired now.





	C:	Yeah, retired now. Nobody seems to want my skills. O:	(Laughs) But you’ve gone on to do some great things.

	C:	I’ve done a few things. I worked for the phone company for a long time. I retired from there at one point. Yeah, I was the first, one of 2 Black males to integrate GTE in this area.

	O:	So, this integration thing has been all a part of your life.



	C:	Yeah, everything. It was a piece of carbon being polished, and being polished with a lot of pressure to shape it into a diamond. That’s basically what I had been doing. And I come to realize that many years later. But every step I have taken in some way has always been a pre-emptive step for some other group of people to take it up and go with it, feel comfortable with their lives. I was always the point person—

	O:	The first.



	C:	Always the first. Yes.



	O:	How did you get into administration in higher education?



	C:	I went back to school late. Actually, my mom had always hoped I would become a doctor. I interestingly wanted to become an astrophysicist. And I was always into science. You couldn’t talk to me if you couldn’t talk science.

	O:	And you felt that you could be? C:	Yeah, that I could be,

	O:	How did you feel this, after all of the experiences that you’ve been through?



	C:	That didn’t deter me from that because I thought I was smart enough to do it. But the reality was, I wasn’t going to become an astrophysicist. I really, I still look at





stuff today in the sciences. I’m still into sciences. The reality is I’m a people person. I’m a problem solving type of person. I like solving difficult challenges. And I went back to school, and you’re talking about middle aged guy, back to school. And I remember starting back school and one of my entry level professors in fact, English professor over at Eckerd, said to me, “You know you’re starting back a little bit late. You know its going to take you awhile. You haven’t been in school in a while, blah blah blah. It may be five years before you finish.” I said, “Lady. Let me be real with you. I’m out of here in two and a half years.” She said, “You can’t do that.” I said, “Watch me.” If you open that door, I’m in. And I’m going to get through. And I did, I graduated with a 3.7, so I was— I’m no dummy. Like I said, I’m a pretty smart guy. But having had that said, I entered a graduate program at Norwich University in Vermont—

	O:	Northridge?



	C:	Norwich.



	O:	How do you spell that? C:	N-O-R-W-I-C-H.

	O:	Okay.



	C:	Out of Vermont. Norwich University in Vermont. And one of my professors, and always been a great friend of mine, I spent two years with her. And I really thought I was gonna become a counseling/clinical psychologist. You know I’m thinking, yeah that sounds cool. I can probably do that. But at some point, it didn’t fit. It did not fit me. I realized that all I am doing is working with individuals, when the problems that we see manifest in these youngsters or these individuals is





much larger than that. They have to be dealing with things that are far greater than they can manage. And it has to be much more broader than just the individual. You know we keep talking today about people adjusting, getting their lives together. Especially if you commit a crime, and all that stuff. People violate the law and come back, and you expect them to solve problems. They can’t.

Cant solve problems. So I had to ask myself, what is it that’s going on in our society today—and this was back when I was a graduate student—what’s going on in our society that causes this to happen. And I come to realize that there are systems at play that affect us all, whether we realize it or not. We make up those systems, but those systems always interact with things. And at some point, I became a sociologist. And still had the clinical background, still had the clinical—I still had the psychology, the psychology’s there. And my graduate professor said, you know after graduating and everything, we’re done with it. She said to me, “I learned more from you than you did from me. Let me tell you that now. ‘Cause you really really are outstanding.” I was talking about crack and powder cocaine when people were just, not even aware. I was always talking about the chemical constructs of it, and why and how its been working. How people were being tried for one thing, and another group tried for another. And you look chemically, the same two ingredients. They’re the same. They’re exactly the same.

	O:	I see.



	C:	And not many people were paying attention to it at that time. O:	Right.





	C:	And I had already done my homework, so. Anyway. That happened and she said to me, “Bill make me a promise.” I said, “What is that?” She says, “Promise you’ll get your doctorate.” I said, “Why? Why do I need a doctorate?” She says, “I’ll tell you right now. You have the world at your feet. You can do anything you want to do. You just don’t quit on it, keep going. Keep going, because you have a lot to offer. I said, “Ahh. Don’t know if I can do this.” But I said okay, I make promises, I don’t break a promise. And eventually, three months later I entered a doctoral program. And actually, I interviewed for the doctoral program. I actually wanted to go to the University of Florida. The doctoral program.

	O:	Go Gators! I’m a Gator.



	C:	Five minutes into the with the Dean of the department, I told him, “Thank you, no thank you.” I walked out.

	O:	What was that about?



	C:	I don’t know, but it was his problem. Wasn’t mine. I could tell from just his attitude, he didn’t want an older graduate student. He wanted young people he could mold and shape in their own. And I’m already, I’m a world person. I already know a lot, still don’t have the qualifications but I can speak about it, and argue with him about it. Which is what he didn’t want. And five minutes into our conversation I knew right then, that is not my place to be. I ended up going to Walden University, and they gave me a chance. I met a guy, a counseling psychologist, from Puget Sound, the University of Puget Sound named Bob Ford. And I met him in Orlando. Met him at an interview session. There were probably 50 or so of us there, on entry, trying to get into Walden. Entry requirement, and





we can do a lot of testing and all of that good stuff. Get through it. And in the end, spent a whole weekend in Orlando with him and another professor. But the one thing I think he said that stood out for him about me was, he got up on stage Sunday morning, before we were to exit. And he was gonna finally tell the group who was accepted and who was not. And he happened to get a, he’s on the 9th floor of this motel where we’re sitting in. We’re there for the weekend. He gets up and looks out his window and there’s a guy down there at 5 in the morning, at a table with a light on above his head, with his books open and papers out, he’s sitting in with his head down, doing all these not taking and all that. He said he looked closer [saying] “Who in the heck’s out here at 5 o’clock in the morning?” It’s me. I didn’t know, and finally he comes down and then everybody is together. And he’s calling individuals one at a time to meet with him. They go in one door and go out the other door, you don’t know what happened. You don’t know if he made it or not. So everybody’s got a shake and everybody’s nervous. I met a guy who was a clinical social worker, he was nervous and he said, “How do you think you’re gonna do?” I said, “I really don’t know.” And Dean Ford said, “Mr. Clyburn! Come on in here!” And he said, “How well do you think you did?” I don’t know. He said, “I’ll tell you what. I got up this morning at five o’clock and I looked down there and I saw somebody at a table looking in his books at five in the morning.

Who do you think that was?” It was me. He says, “That in itself sold me about you. You are very disciplined. And you have a discipline that many people wish they could have.”





	O:	And I would venture to guess that a lot of it started there at Booker and then through your other experiences. Dr. Clyburn—where does Newtown go from here? What does the community do to teach and train kids that are coming up these things that you learned? I know that’s a long conversation but I need you to crystallize it for us.

	C:	You know, its gonna be a challenge right now. The way society is going, its like a train going to a train station. And its not stopping for passengers. Its really slowing down and then speeding up. You need to have your ticket in hand, you have to have good feet to adapt to what’s going on around you and to be able to leap when the opportunity is there. That’s saying that you need to be better prepared. What I’m seeing, and this is observational. And some experience, with some of the kids in the community. Not just here but elsewhere. The unfortunate part of it is, not many are gonna make it. But you know what, when you look back, that pattern has always been the same. Nothing has really, really changed. For me, it has not changed. You and I—gentleman here—we’re lucky enough to have gotten some educations some place and used it wisely to move ourselves beyond where we were to something else that’s greater than ourselves. Still a lot of unknowns involved in that process. But the reality is, if we don’t teach kids difference. Teach them difference. Not same, teach them difference. They’re never gonna be able to adapt.

	O:	What does that mean?



	C:	Well, I look around and see kids today and we’re using the same 18th century, 19th century educational processes to teach kids and we’re not moving forward





very fast. I had a niece of mine, a couple years ago who was at the—and she was in advanced math. She was having a hard time in math. My sister called me and said, “I need your help. You’re math, you know something about math. Come help her with her math. I said, “I’m not doing that anymore.” She said, “Please help me.” So I go down and I look at the problem. And its interesting because the child conceptually understood the problem but just didn’t understand the procedure or how to go about solving the problem. So what I started to do with her, rather than trying to teach her what her teacher was teaching her, I taught her a different way to look at the problem. Look at it from a different perspective. And once I showed her something different, her light bulb went on. And I said, “Now you have this way of doing things different. Take this and use it if you can, and from this, you’ll find another way. And she did all the work, took it back to class. Gave it to her teacher. Teacher didn’t expect her to—to master it. She says, “Wow, you got all this right!” She told me, she said the teacher said, “Wow you got all this right. How did you do that?” And she showed her my model. The teacher says, “I didn’t know that! I need to go talk to your uncle.”

	O:	So that’s what’s gonna have to happen with this generation—



	C:	Again, problems today in our community, and every community, has three line heads. Maybe more. Line head number one: education. Line head number two: criminal justice. Line head number three: mental health. OK? We use the same old processes, same old procedures to problem solve for kids. There are two words I always taught my graduate students to use when they start dealing with these kind of problems. One is called etic, the other is called emic. Etic is





universal—emic is cultural. And understand, to understand problems as a researcher, teacher, whatever you are professionally, you need to become more emic. You can’t assume that one size fits all. That’s the etic approach. You do that, you’re gonna have the same problems over and over again. You look at the history and the data: year after year after year, you have the same success and failure rates throughout the criminal justice system. Some programs, 48-49. I had a program in 1993 that dealt with emic. Had an 85 percent success rate. And they try to replicate it, what do they do? They go back to the etic approach. What happened three years later? It’s gone. So we got to teach those that are teaching our kids. We have to teach people other ways of thinking about problems.

Problem solving is not just one way. Which is why I’m bringing this up. The reason probably why I didn’t become a psychologist because I know that when you deal with certain kinds of problems, its not always mental. We can’t fix problems by mentally looking in someone’s head, that’s all speculation anyway. That’s always inferred. You speculate on what’s in that person’s head. You don’t know. You have to be around people long enough to understand them. (??), New York psychotherapist, found that out pretty doggone quick in the [19]60s and [19]70s. He used the etic approach on his clients, and failed miserably. He kept figuring out, why am I not getting to these people? They’re smarter than he thought they were. And finally he relented and says, you know what I need to do? I need to stop trying to teach them what I know. I need to learn what they’re doing so I can figure out how to navigate what’s going on. I’m gonna sit with them. I’m just gonna sit and observe, I’m gonna work with them, I’m not gonna





say a word when things are going bad. Not gonna do a thing. Just gonna sit and be quiet. And over time, he figured out something. These people are pretty smart. They adapt very well to circumstance, okay? That’s what these kids are doing. Whether you like it or not. They’re adapting. Now, if you don’t want them to adapt to the way they are going, you gotta teach them a different way. You got to work with them, make them move forward. Unfortunately, presently in this community—and I’m talking from both sides, both the powers to be, and those that are wannabes, those that are in the community here itself—are using the same old ways they always had. So they’re never going to mesh and we’re gonna always have this huge vacuum in between them. You’re gonna have the same problems as a result, and the kids are gonna fall in that vacuum. Nothing’s going to change. And I think the biggest challenge for most people on both sides is to sit back, let go of authority and power, let others who may have other ideas come in and help you, consult with you, work with you to do these problems. I’m a person who cares about people. I care about my community. I want to help. I tried to help offer my services to many people. Schools and otherwise. I’ve heard talk, “Ah, you’re too expensive.” I said, I would do it for free, if they would let me do it. At one point, I did that. Soon as I started talking about, you know, if we’re gonna do this on a regular basis, lets do a little consulting work. Lets pay for a little of it. So I can spend my time—I got gas money coming down. Never heard from them again. So, that frustration to me. So like I told you the other day, I’m gonna stay retired.

	O:	That’s a good place to end, Dr. Clyburn. That’s a good place to end.





	C:	That’s fine. There’s a lot going on. O:	Wow, oh my God.

	C:	I can tell you stories, well, not just that, but how these connect the dots to all that…

[End of interview]





	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 6, 2020