AAHP 616; Wesley; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 616 Walter Wesley, Sr. 7-27-2018 Interviewed by Julian Valdivia on July 27, 2018 56 minutes | 26 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Julian Valdivia talks with Fort Myers native Walt Wesley, Sr. Wesley recalls that he was born in 1945 to Leroy and Rosie Presley, who both worked as educators in the Lee County School System after graduating from Florida A&M University. He recalls that his father, a World War II veteran, was active in the community, and was involved in American Legion, a volunteer sheriff’s organization, the board of a credit union and veteran’s affairs. Wesley began his education at Everglades Elementary in Everglades City, Florida. He went on to attend junior high at Immokalee before attending Dunbar High School in Fort Myers, where he learned to play basketball. Later, he moved to Kansas to play basketball at the University of Kansas.

He compares race relations in the Midwest and Deep South, noting the absence of segregation in public facilities. He graduated from the University of Kansas in 1966 and was drafted onto the Cincinnati Royals basketball team, where he played for three years. He returned to Fort Myers permanently in the early 1990s. Prior to his return, he finished up his degree while working as a basketball coach at the University of Kansas. He went on to coach basketball at Michigan and the United States Military Academy at West Point. After returning to Fort Myers, he became director of the Stars Complex, a youth program. Today, he remains active in the church and his fraternity, and organizes events promoting voter registration and other issues in the community.





Keywords: [basketball, NBA, University of Kansas, Dunbar School, Fort Myers, Lee County, segregation]



AAHP 616

Interviewee: Walt Wesley Sr. Interviewer: Julian Valvidia Date: July 27, 2018



	V:	This is Julian Valdivia, with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. I'm sitting here today in Roberto Clemente Park at the Lee County Black History Society, and I have the honor of sitting with and speaking with…

	W:	Walt Wesley, Sr.



	V:	Alright, well, thank you for speaking with me today. The first thing I need to ask is for ease of the transcriber is how do you spell your name?

	W:	W-A-L-T, Walt. W-E-S-L-Y.



	V:	Okay, and what year were you born, and were you also born in Fort Myers? W:	January 25, 1945, born in Fort Myers, Florida. County of Lee.

	V:	Alright, and were you born in a hospital or to a midwife?



	W:	Um, [Laughter] I believe I was born in a Hospital. My brothers and sisters were born in— two of my brothers were born from a midwife.

	V:	Okay, and who were your parents?



	W:	My parents were Leroy and Rosie Presley. V:	Alright, and how do you spell their names?

	W:	Father's name is Loy. L-E-R-O-Y, W-E S-L-E-Y, J-O-S-I-E, B. G. Wesley. V:	And can I ask what was your mother's maiden name?

	W:	Green.





	V:	Green. Green as in the color? W:	Like the color.

	V:	Okay, alright. So, first thing then. I wanna ask about your parents. What did they both do for a living?

	W:	Both of my parents were educators. They taught in the Lee County school system. My mother taught in Clarion county and the Lee County school systems.

	V:	So would your mother travel between here and I'm assuming, Naples?



	W:	She commuted between here. She started out actually in the Everglades City, commuting between Everglades City and Immokalee. And then, finally she landed a spot in Lee County.

	V:	Okay, and so were your parents from Fort Myers originally?



	W:	My mother was from Fort Myers, my father was from Jacksonville. V:	Okay, and do you know how they met?

	W:	They met in school. Yeah, so from there, I guess it was a—actually he was at Florida A&M University, where he graduated from, and my mother was at platoon where she graduated. But they both received graduate degrees from A&M.

	V:	Oh, so they went to grad school?



	W:	Yes, both of them had master's degrees.



	V:	Oh, wow. Do you know what pursued them to get Master's degrees in education at the time? Because that's like, amazing.





	W:	Well, they were both in education, and they wanted to further their careers.



	V:	Is that ‘cause—I just don't know myself, was it at the time if you were to be a teacher, did you need a Master's degree, or was it—?

	W:	You know, I really don't know, but I don't think so. They were already teachers when they pursued their Master's degree, so they had jobs at the time. So, I don't think it was mandatory or necessary for them to have them. Like most things, you know, the better the degree, the more money you make.

	V:	Yeah. So, do you know why they chose to settle down in Fort Myers?



	W:	This was my mother's home, so they came down here. As far as I know, we never talked about it that much as to the real reason why, but I guess my father was pursuing her, so that was the best thing he could do [Laughter].

	V:	So did your grandparents live here as well, then?



	W:	My grandparents on my mother's side. My grandparents on my father's side lived, then, in Jacksonville.

	V:	And did you have any siblings?



	W:	Yes, I do. I have a surviving sister that's younger, and three brothers, both of them are deceased. I mean, all three of them are deceased. I had two older brothers that died shortly one at birth, and one shortly after birth, and my younger brother, he contracted meningitis, but he lived to the age of twenty-one.

	V:	Okay.



	W:	My sister still lives.





	V:	So did you and your siblings ever have— did you guys have a good relationship with your grandparents then? Did you visit and do activities and things like that?

	W:	Oh, yeah. I mean, I didn't really know my mother's parents that well. They passed away shortly after my arrival, honestly. But I knew my grandmother in Jacksonville, I knew her very well. I used to go visit her until school started, at least once a month, stayed with her over the summers while my parents were in school doing their graduate degrees, so I knew her very well.

	V:	What would you do during your visits?



	W:	Everything kids do. You know, play, shop, kinda her favorite kid. V:	Kind of her favorite kid? [Laughter]

	W:	Yeah.



	V:	Okay. So I wanna ask you then, with home life, what would you do around the house? What did chores entail around the house?

	W:	Well, chores entailed - you know, me and my father, we pursued the chores of - on the weekends, the first thing we do was clean the yard. We had a large backyard with lots of fruit trees, so that was a—I think it was my responsibility mostly, wasn't his. But, we pursued that, we chopped wood occasionally, and taking out the garbage, and cleaning that, and polishing furniture, the whole nine yards of keeping the house clean. Cleaning the fireplace, and things of that nature.





	V:	I was gonna ask, for chopping wood with the fireplace, did it get reasonably— I mean, I know there weren't heaters around, but did it get reasonably cold here?

	W:	Well, yeah there were heaters around. There were kerosene heaters, but, we had a large fireplace in our living room, so we used it every while when it got cold. I mean, the mornings were cold, so we'd stay around the fireplace, and get ready for school, or whatever.

	V:	Did you and your family ever do, like, family trips anywhere, or things of that sort?

	W:	Oh well, yeah. A lot of field trips, you know, it was kind of the place for us to go up to Jacksonville maybe a couple of times a year, and my father - my uncles and aunts, they would come to visit them. A lot of my uncles worked on the railroads, so they had passes, so they were down there frequently with my cousins. You know, we were back and forth between each other, and Atlantic Coast railroad. We used to ride that quite a bit back and forth. So there were quite a few trips, traveling in the car, and we had railroads to visit my mother's side of the family that we would go visit quite a bit. Have an occasional cook-out. He was a farmer of sorts, and raised hogs and cows. So he'd have a big family festivity, so just a grand time.

	V:	Sounds fun. I wanna ask, ‘cause you said your mother was from Fort Myers originally, do you know when she was born?

	W:	Let's see [Laughter]. Let's see. Thirteen, yes.





	V:	1913, okay. So I mean, I don't know if your family talk about it, but your mother would've been here for the lynching back then. Did she ever mention the lynching?

	W:	No, that was not a topic of conversation in the house. So, she never said— but, you know. [Coughs] They were very protective over me in that regard, I knew about it, because you couldn't help but know about it living at that time and place.

	V:	Yeah, got it, okay. Moving on from that then, you said both your parents are educators, where did they work here?

	W:	My mother, like I said, she was in the Clarion County school system. She taught in Everglades for a while, and then she taught in Immokalee for a while, and then she taught in Lee County. She was in the elementary school system. My father taught in the high school system.

	V:	And where did your father teach in the high school system, but do you know what school specifically he taught at?

	W:	Walburg High - that was [inaudible 00:11:22]. So he had no choice, and when my mother came here, same thing, she just was just at the elementary section that she taught in and my father taught in the high school section.

	V:	Okay, and—



	W:	Didn't have a choice. All schools at that time.



	V:	While they were teaching, did they ever talk about their job with you or your siblings? Like, what they did, or things that happened?





	W:	Well, no. I mean, as far as teaching, I knew what they did, a lot brought work home. You know, curriculums, and that, and so forth. My mother, being in the elementary school system, there was a lot of things. Making different objects, and activities for the kids, you know? Was going to the store and things of that nature, she was creating artwork for them, and things of that nature. So, yeah, but I mean it wasn't like "Okay, this is what I do, and this is how I do it." But, no.

	V:	Yeah, okay. Were there other things that your parents did in the community?



	W:	Oh, well, they were very involved in the community. They were in things like the [00:12:50 inaudible] Christmas tree. Things of that nature, they volunteered for that. They were very active in the church, both attending, and being members in the church, which is still standing, still here, of which I am a member at this time. Never was, never was a time that I wasn't— even when I was gone. And thanks to that, they were involved in different city organizations, in things that occurred in the community, things of that nature.

	V:	What were those civic organizations?



	W:	Oh, I followed them, but I don't remember all of them, you know? My father was involved in veterans' affairs, and American Legion. They had a volunteer sheriff's organization, and he was involved in that, and like I said, he was in the church, very active in the community, and in the school itself, and then taught reverse-5 education for a while, and kids' jobs, so he was involved in education for a while. Soliciting jobs for kids, and that nature, so he was involved. He was on the board of the credit union.





	V:	What was— like credit union, as in credit union like it is today? W:	Yeah.

	V:	What was, like - huh, what was the role of— well, yeah it was a credit institution.



So, did people like barter for houses, or things like that?



	W:	I assume so. It was a legit credit union. It was Lee County's credit union.



	V:	Oh, okay. I understand, then. I wanna ask with your father, ‘cause you said he was involved with Veteran's Affair and things like that, was he a veteran himself?

	W:	Yeah, my father served, and got honorably discharged from the Army. V:	What war did he serve in?

	W:	Two.



	V:	Do you know over what period? W:	No, I don't.

	V:	Okay. I was gonna ask, because you were born in [19]45, so then— okay. So the volunteer sheriff's organization, have you seen the— I think, I don't have the picture on me, but I think they have it over at the other building. The picture with all the— is he in that picture?

	W:	Mmhm.



	V:	Okay, so I gotta—



	W:	I have a copy of it in my memoirs, or whatever.





	V:	What was the role of the organization, then? Did they patrol the Black community here?

	W:	Well, yeah. Pretty much they were out in the community, seeing and making sure things went well. I guess what the community patrol is today— it's the same kind of a thing. You know, cause and warrant, making arrests, and things like that happening. They were just enforcing it on the community, sharing things, looking to make things better, improve the community, make it safer and better. Things of that nature.

	V:	They were civil servants. W:	Yeah.

	V:	Okay. So I wanna ask a little about you, then. Where did you go to elementary school?

	W:	Started out in Everglades, Everglades City.



V:  And so, with your mother teaching elementary, was your mother your elementary school teacher?

W:  No. No, she didn't teach me. I was with her down there, but I had other teachers. My mother never taught me. I was never in my mother's class, I was never in my father's class.

V:  For the better? W:   Yeah. [Laughter]





	V:	Alright. And so, going between here, Everglades City, Jacksonville, and the other cities and things like that? Were there any big differences with Fort Myers with the other cities? Anything that made Fort Myers stand out?

	W:	Well, yeah. There was a big difference between Everglades City, Immokalee, Fort Myers, and Jacksonville. That was a major difference between Jacksonville and Everglades City and Immokalee. I mean, primarily Immokalee and Everglades City were towns. Some of the, I would say that almost the majority of your classmates would be one half of the year here, and one half of the year up north, to some extent. Because they travel with their families that travel with the seasons, so they took them with them. Jacksonville was the big city. At the time, it was a growing population. I remember there were things I would go visit when I was real small, my grandmother had my uncle take me downtown to ride the escalator, and that was a big deal. They didn't have escalators in Fort Myers, or anything of that nature. And later on, because of my height and all, we did a lot of other shopping for me in Jacksonville, because it was difficult getting clothes for me - decent clothes for me here in Fort Myers for quite a while.

	V:	There wasn't a good tailor, or anything around? W:	No, no. They didn't carry those sizes, you know? V:	Yeah.

	W:	Especially shoes [Laughter].



	V:	So how did you deal with that growing up then? When were you, like, starting to become taller? Was it in high school?





	W:	Pretty much. I was tall for a while. My first encounter would've been when I was in Immokalee, about the seventh or eighth grade, or something like that. I was a stalk bean. They gotta coach me, coach for basketball. And at first, that didn't work out too well, so. But, I was always pretty much aware of it. Kids are kids, you know?

	V:	Alright. So, you went to elementary school in Everglades City, did you end up going to middle school, or junior high school there as well?

	W:	No, that's pretty much when I went to Immokalee, yeah. I was there— about in fifth grade, I was going to school in Immokalee. It was just for first, second— I think first, second, third grade I was in Everglades, and then I moved to Immokalee. It was a little closer.

	V:	And did you go there because your mother would bring you? I assume you and your siblings to school with her?

	W:	Well, it was just me. So, she would bring me with her.



	V:	Okay, and so you ended up going to school here in Fort Myers, though, correct? W:	Yeah.

	V:	Was that for high school then? W:	Yeah.

	V:	Dunbar High?



	W:	Dunbar High.





	V:	Great. And I'm trying to think, ‘cause you would've been in high school in the early [19]60s, right? Did you go to school in the old Dunbar or the new Dunbar?

	W:	No, the old one. Our class in [19]62 was the last class that graduated on high street.

	V:	Okay. And then, they just filled the one up on Addison, then? Okay. Do you remember who your teachers were at the time?

	W:	Where? Over at Dunbar? Oh, yeah.



	V:	Like any teachers or mentors that you had, I guess I should say.



	W:	Well, well my family mentor was James Stevens, who's coach. He took me under his wing, and then developed me, and gave me a sense of being, to this tall, lanky fellow. Instilled the groundwork for me to go on and do some things.

	V:	Okay. And so, what kind of things did James Stevens do to help develop you?



Was it like when you pursued your education? During your training?



	W:	Well, he was a coach, he took me under, but you know. Playing basketball could lead to bigger and better things, and this is where - going to school was always what I was gonna do. My parents made that clear. You know, “You're gonna go to somebody's school when you leave here. Whatever you do, that's up to you, but you're going to school.” So, that was never an option not to.

	V:	Yeah.





	W:	And that, he helped me, and instilled a lot of confidence in me in doing some things, and taught me the game of basketball. Spent a lot of time with me, and taught me a lot about life, and going to school, and college. Pursuing it.

	V:	So, what kind of colleges were you looking at? I know you ended up going to Kansas, correct? Were Florida, or were any of the colleges in the state of Florida, did they just not offer any opportunities?

	W:	Well, see, it was a segregated system. So they wanted [inaudible 00:24:57], and I wasn't allowed on their campus, so Florida, Florida State, no, they were not an option. I was Black, I mean. But I was recruited for schools in the Midwest and so forth. There were historically Black colleges around. But, no, never pursued it the ones that were in Florida.

	V:	I know your coach James Stevens, he kinda told you how you could get success from basketball, and things like that. When you were growing up, was that always how you saw yourself getting success? Or did you wanna do other things earlier on?

	W:	No, no. I always wanted to do things, earlier on. I mean, football was the big thing. You know, everybody loved football. I loved it too. A lot of guys I knew that were considered big brothers, Freddy Wyatt, [inaudible 00:26:21], a lot of those— Johnny Teal. They were all playing football. That was the sport to play. My cousin, he played it, he excelled at it, well, “Walt you gotta play football.” But what I did was one day play football. But, early on, I wasn't thinking about it as kids during the day. There wasn't no basketball camps, there was no football





camps in the city. Things like that. I mean, when I was growing up, big thing was going hunting and fishing. Things of that nature. Yeah, I played baseball, that was a possibility, but I wasn't a baseball jockey. I was a baseball fan. The parish training here got to know some of that, ‘cause they'd come out on the playground. I played with this when I was in high school, but that's when sports took a hold when I got to high school. Before that, everything but. Shooting marbles, stick ball, skating, and things of that nature. That was the big issue, you know. Um, it was a big major, major difference. Promotion. If you got to see a game, to get to a TV, you know, TV wasn't around. The big thing was listening to the world series in somebody's house, on their porch or something for the world series. Something like that, going to the Classic, over in Miami, and watching the band. Things of that nature.

	V:	Alright. So, I wanna ask about your time in Kansas. When you went to Kansas, how was it different being there? Was Kansas segregated? Like Fort Myers?

	W:	No.



	V:	I don't know myself.



	W:	No, no. It was no utopia by any means, I mean you were accepted. I’m not saying that there wasn't segregation, but you were accepted. I didn't have no colored restaurant, no White restaurants. No Black fountains, or things of that nature. You live here, you live over there. I mean, I used the same shower that they did, I used the same locker room that they did. Wasn't no— that's how it was. Went to class with everybody else, you know what I'm saying.





	V:	Yeah. I just wanted to ask ‘cause I mean, for— I didn't know if it had any impact on you, or anything like that.

	W:	I mean, it was new. I didn't know what to expect, it was new to me. I never entered a class with White students. So, I had a White roommate. It was, whoa, you know. We were sitting at the same table, and he'd been sharing a general conversation, how to react on a social level.

V:  Yeah. Just not having to think about it. Were there any— So, when you were going to the university as well, what were you also getting your education in? While you were playing basketball?

W:   Education.



V:  Oh, you were doing education as well, like your parents? W:  Yeah.

V:   I'm assuming your parents were the ones that inspired you to do that, then?



	W:	Well, not really. They told me I'd do whatever I wanted to. You know, as long as I was in school. Being a teacher, they didn't push me in a direction to be one. They said "I just want you to get a formal education, so you can have something to do." That was the best way to do it. "I don't want you to be a teacher, I just want you to do what you wanna do." That wasn't my inclination. Doing that, I mean, I had some bright ideas about some things I'd like to do, maybe in that long time, I thought I'd wanna be a chemist. I wasn't sure. I mean, don't get me wrong. The wind said "I wanna go into education, this is what I want to do, and this is-" I got





in, and I liked some of the things - some of the things that I liked were a part of education. Kinda always liked giving instruction [Laughter]. So, all that in that regard, that's how I came into education. So, but I never taught. I worked in recreation for quite a bit. So, that was a kind of teaching - coaching came in handy in that. I mean, growing up, it was very different, but, you know, sometimes people said "How did you feel?" Well, if you had a situation, and you never know what's coming, you said "Okay." I never knew I was poor until somebody told me I was poor. I ate good. I slept good. I had a good roof over my head, you know. My parents used to discipline me. Yeah, was I aware? Yeah, I was aware of a lot of things about it. Looking back, I wish maybe we had had family discussions about a lot of things that were going on. But I think my parents were so in tune to making sure that it didn't affect me, and I wasn't affected by that, kinda got lost in the upbringing to some extent. I know, I'd come to learn later on, you know, much later when I was having kids of my own, that that was part of my mother's saying, having lost two kids, and another one to spinal meningitis, and all boys, you know, I just want you to run, I get like that, and that's my viewpoint, she never told me that. But I get that from the conversations that was had, thinking about those things.

V:  I didn't mean to cut you off, but it sounds like, especially with what you say about your mother, and how you'd always be traveling to your grandparents, you know, the uncle who was with the railway, it sounds like family was extremely important to you.





	W:	Oh, yeah. It was— both sides, I didn't know my grandparents on my mother's side, they passed away. I never knew my grandfather in each side. I can't actually remember my grandmother on my mother's side. My mother talked about her, and her aunt lived together. Her and her aunt lived together, and they raised my mother, and my uncle on my mother's side. He played baseball in the old neighborhood league.

	V:	Oh, wow.



	W:	Yeah. And he lived in New York. But family was close and we interacted quite a bit. That was a part of it. Like I said, having one of my uncles worked for the railroads, we had railroad passes, and we got to travel out to see each other quite a bit. Plus, we would drive back and forth from here to Jacksonville, but.

	V:	When you were in Kansas, how did you keep in touch with your family? Over the phone?

	W:	Letter-writing. V:	Oh, okay.

	W:	Yeah. A lot of letter-writing. And I ceased for a while. Our father was a stickler for perfection, and I always wanted to write letters for each other, and I used to write, and sometimes I'd be in a hurry, and he'd always correct me. [Laughter]. If I didn't do something right, you know, I forgot a punctuation mark, or did a capital I or something—

	V:	He'd just mark up your letter?





	W:	Yeah. Sent it back to me.



	V:	Alright. So, going back to Kansas, you were there— I mean, forget me. I'm not, like, a big sports person besides hockey, but this isn't about me. Were there any big particular years for you in your basketball career while you were in Kansas?

	W:	Yeah. Obviously, Kansas being the major basketball college in the country, or at least where the game itself was invented by Dr. James Nation playing there alone, going then, making the process and coming from Fort Myers, you know, a few people heard about Fort Myers, but where is Fort Myers? Teammates used to kid me a lot about "Where's that? what do you do down there?" that kind of a thing. But yeah, going there and being a star basketball player, all-American at the University of Kansas, that's tremendous.

	V:	Whatcha-ma-call-it. When you were there, when were you— ‘cause you ended up going to the NBA, when were you scouted?

	W:	I was scouted in [19]66. I graduated in '66, and drafted for the Cincinnati Royals. V:	So, how long did you play for the Royals?

	W:	Three years.



	V:	Three years? And what do you remember most about your time with the Royals?



Traveling, your teammates, the coach?



	W:	Well, I had a lot of fond memories of playing. Yeah, traveling, my teammates.



Making the team itself. So there was a lot of fond memories, you know. Stand-out games that you had, things of that nature.





	V:	So, when you were playing basketball, did you also make the time to come back here, to Fort Myers?

	W:	I didn't come back a lot. V:	Oh, okay.

	W:	I came home a couple of times. The reception that I got was mostly good and bad. So, I came home my senior year, after my senior year, and they had the mayor meet me at the airport. They shook my hand, it was a photo-op at best. But, I remember them saying they brought the high school band to welcome me, and all, and it was great. Again, it was a very segregated situation, but they wanted to take me back, bring me back out to the neighborhood, just have a little celebration with the community, but they made it quite clear, and the mayor made it quite clear that they couldn't make it down 41, Cleveland Avenue. They had to take the backroads to come back into Dunbar. They couldn't come through the main road. I mean, they were saying congratulations.

	V:	Bet they took the photo-op anyway. W:	That they did. They did the photo-op. V:	That's weird.

	W:	So.



	V:	Huh?



	W:	But, that's what it was.



	V:	Did you expect that coming back here?





	W:	Yeah. Yeah. I didn't expect any better. I wasn't surprised by it, you know. That's what it was.

	V:	I was gonna say, '‘cause— I mean, at that point, it's pretty disrespectful really.



Especially if they do the photo-op, and things like that, and then.



	W:	Well, you know, they were trying to bridge relations, and do things, and get people involved. You know. I mean, at least they came by. [Laughter]

	V:	Alright. So then, when you came back, did you come back to meet with your family, or were there other things?

	W:	Well, I was coming home for a visit. I mean, it was time. You know, school was out. I had a few things to do, finish my degree, but you know, school was out, that's what kids normally do. You know, I was gonna report for camp in Cincinnati, I'd been drafted by the Royals, so yeah.

	V:	Alright, so when did you officially come back to Fort Myers, then? W:	I believe I came back in [19]92. It was probably [19]91 or [19]92.

	V:	Alright. And had you been in - what was the time in between that? You were with the Royals your entire basketball career, weren't you?

	W:	No, I changed. I had several changes within the NBA. After playing professionally, I coached. I went back to my alma mater, I finished my degree. I coached there as an assistant, and then I went to Michigan, and then to the United States Military Academy at West Point.

	V:	Oh, wow.





	W:	Assisted there for several years. And, after doing that, I returned back home. V:	And why did you finally decided to come back after Fort Myers, then?

	W:	Well, my coach convinced me to come back. He'd always talk to me about it.



Coach Stevens, Coach Stevens. We'd always talk about it, you know. There was some talk, and it was a time the Mayor was making improvements out in the community to do some things. They were building a stars complex at that time, and they had great ideas of helping the kids, and promoting the kids, and things of that nature. And I kinda said, “Well, one day I probably will.” After time, my wife, she loved it. She liked the idea of the beach and all, I kinda wanted to settle down a little bit. My daughter was - you know, she was young, and I kinda wanted to see her grow up. I wanted to be around. Coaching didn't permit you that. You know, seeing all the little ins and outs, and read, and then she brought out - you know, I don't know where that went. So, we kinda talked about it, me and my wife, and we kinda seized it as an opportunity in that, to do so. My mother, her health wasn't the greatest, so we said we'd give it a try for a couple of years, and see how it worked out, but we're still here.

V:  So, within that time span, did you ever come back to Fort Myers in-between? I'm talking about when you were coaching, and things like that, and playing with the NBA.

	W:	Well, it was a span of fifteen years that I didn't come back.



V:   You didn't come back? Was it ever a shock when you came back to Fort Myers, to see if things changed, or if things hadn't changed at all? I guess I should ask





that. When you eventually did move back, in what ways were things similar, and in what was were things different?

	W:	It wasn't so much shock. You know, I was abreast of things that were happening.



Improvement, through the media, through talking with family and friends, and things of that nature. So, yeah. I was aware when I came back. But, one of the reasons I didn't come back, as I said earlier, a bad experience, and it wasn't good. My mother wasn't comfortable, and my father wasn't comfortable with me coming back, spending a lot of time. It was too many issues. I mean, I remember coming back once, and I drove back. I was— I got married, had my son with me, you know. He was about 8 months old, and we came back, and we drove down, we got across the Edison bridge. I mean, I was gonna surprise my family, because my father - well, just tell your mother to come on down, ‘cause she'll be nervous until you get here. And I got stopped. You know, police officers stopped me, and detained me for about half an hour because of the car I was driving, and all. So, I talked it over with my father, and he said "Well, everybody had a nice visit and everything, but now is not the time to spend a lot of time." So, I went back. Was it different? Yeah, things were growing, but I decided.

	V:	So, coming back, then, in [19]92 you said, correct? In what wats did you start to involve yourself in the community? Because I'm starting to see parallels, like your father was really involved in how - how when you came back, you were also involved.

	W:	Well, I came back, and I took a job with the city as a director of the Stars complex. I was interacting with the kids quite a bit, then. That in itself, helped me





blossom into other things, and being around in the community. Letting the kids, seeing them, talking to them about— this is so, you can do these things, you can go places and do things, and there are opportunities, and doors open for you.

You just have to pursue them and be ready to step into that door to take advantage of that situation when it occurs. So, yeah.

	V:	Were you trying to be a mentor to them?



	W:	Well, it wasn't trying to be a mentor, I don't look at it like that. I think I was propelled into that area of being a mentor, but there are so many mentors there. It was a communication. Trying to communicate with the community about other things - wow, yeah okay. I did this, yeah, you saw me on TV, yeah, I got a car out there, and this. Did I make some money? Yeah, I made a little money, but anybody makes money. It's trying to promote them the same thing. They can do it, change the mindset from can't to can.

	V:	Yeah, in what other ways, besides the Stars complex, are you involved in any other aspects?

	W:	Well, right now I'm involved with my fraternity, we do things along the same kind of things. We're involved with the church, in the community doing things, and promoting things, and voter registration, and things of that nature. Drives, and helping to present a positive attitude in the community. Proud to come in here, and be involved with this, join an organization. Things of that nature. I go to community events, and still. I mean, growing up, like I said, the old [inaudible 00:51:38] center, they used to have a Christmas tree down there, she had a





childbearing tree— but a child berry tree she uses, and you have to trim it. I remember going, and father would take me down there, and would show me how to do it together. Some of his friends that would be down there, helping clean up afterwards, and distribute the gifts, and things on Christmas day. My aunt who was married to my uncle, Walter Cannon, who was my uncle, who was my brother's brother, who played baseball and lived in New York. She lives here.

She was the one that organized, and started the Easter parade here. Getting kids involved, and giving them a day where they had a great celebration, and that. It started from her house, the parade itself, and went out to the city center, and they would have a baseball game, and big picnic for all the kids, and that. She would have, you know, them come by, making decorations, the kids would decorate their basket in their tricycles, and wear cute little uniforms, and Easter outfits, and pursue the religious standpoint, and keeping with it, the religious statement in that. There was big community celebration of Easter. It was primarily for the kids. She was the one that pursued that, you know, established that with them. So, when I used to be around there, I was a little kid, so she had me running around. Kids stuff, primarily, you know?

	V:	Do you remember, as a kid, getting different things? Well, you said you were running around, but do you remember any specific thing that you did?

	W:	Well, you know, I was running around "Walt, come get me this, come give me that," I was following her foot for foot. I was a little tight. They used to have a king, queen, used to parade. You know, I was on the floor once, and I got pictures of that all back there. But, kids were involved in those kind of things. I





mean, that was a great activity. You looked forward to that, it was a great time. Like I said, played baseball, and all kinds of things. There was a big community celebration, like the old times, a good old-fashioned picnic.

	V:	Do you think, I guess focusing on the kids and their education and their betterment, is gonna be one of the big instruments for change in this community?

	W:	Well, I think this will always have to be. Or we're gonna have to follow the times, and get with the times in that things have changed. Things have changed for the better, and the straight answer to that is yes, you know. We can't just say it is, and go forth. We have to keep working towards that objective, and applying those things. We can't just dismiss the things of the past for the future.

	V:	Okay, well, wise words [Laughter].



	W:	I don't know about that. Just trying to give you an explanation.



	V:	Alright, well, I guess I'll cut the interview there, ‘cause we're going on close to an hour now.

	W:	Okay.











Audit-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

April 27, 2020

Final-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

August 17, 2021