AAHP 037; Johnson; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 037 Gerald Jerome Johnson African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on February 7, 2009 10 minutes | 6 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Dr. Gerald Jerome Johnson discusses his experience of being one of the first African American students at the University of Florida at the Celebrate the Firsts Weekend Gala. He was enrolled in the veterinary school and describes no outright discrimination, but faced experiences such as people leaving empty seats around him. His mentor at UF was Dr. Llewellyn Payton, who was the first Black graduate of the veterinary school at the University of Minnesota.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; Celebrate the Firsts; Integration]



Standards

	SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

	SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws



































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 037

Interviewee: Gerald Jerome Johnson Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date: February 7, 2009



	W:	This is February 7th, 2009, at Emerson hall at the University of Florida, and the weekend of Celebrating the Firsts, the weekend gala. I’m sitting with Dr. Gerald Johnson, 1982 graduate of the University of Florida. This is Marna Weston with the oral history archives. Dr. Johnson, thank you for taking a few moments to speak with us.

	J:	I’m honored to be here.



W:  Well, we’re honored to just be in your presence. Sitting back and reflecting on all the history that was taking place in the room, and watching all of you, was really overwhelming. What are your reflections on tonight?

	J:	Well, when I look into what just happened, and what has happened in the past since I graduated, and what happened before me, I feel it was a blur. It was just a beautiful thing; it was a lot of hard work, but I am totally, totally in awe of the history of these amazing people that preceded my graduation and what they have accomplished. I am just really, really honored to be a part of it. Anything that I can do to encourage people today to live out their dream—to really work hard at it. And when you feel that you want to do something, just do it. Just do it and don’t accept that you can’t do it because of whatever stigma you want to have attached to it. Do it. Just do it. Believe in yourself. More than anybody else can believe in you, you believe in yourself. That’s all I can offer to anybody.

Because it’s out there. It’s out there. I would have never believed, today, what I’ve accomplished, and at the time that I went through those years in the veterinary program was very, very difficult. I didn’t have the support that I thought





I would need—or needed, actually—but somehow, I got through. And when I look back, you know, I get tearful because it was hard. It was hard. I didn’t do it to break ground; I did it because it was my passion to become a veterinarian. All of these other historical points came afterwards. So, a lot of times, we don’t know what our calling is, or what the big guy has planned for us, but He knows. He knows what’s best.

	W:	Why the University of Florida?



	J:	Well, it’s an interesting story, because I actually did my undergraduate at Tuskegee University. And at the time, in that period of time, it was very much Black power, and you had the Panthers, you had the Afro pick, Afro comb, everything. So, I wanted to go to a Black university, but I did want to be a veterinarian. Tuskegee was a Black school—is a private Black university with a veterinary school. So, I went there. And then, they opened the school here in Gainesville, and being a Florida resident, I had to come back here. So, it wasn’t my first choice, actually. My first choice would have been a graduate from Tuskegee University.

	W:	What year did you first come to the University Florida? J:	1977.

	W:	And what was the environment on campus like in [19]77 for a Black man pursuing a college degree?

	J:	Well, I don’t want to call it that it was a prejudiced situation, or segregated, but there were undertones of prejudice. Whereas, in class, during certain tests, I would have empty seats around me. I had some of my classmates call me “Kunta





Kinte.” I had opportunities to be pretty angry. And when I graduated, they interviewed me, and I said I wish I had been number ten, because it was really a lot of pressure. And the whole stereotype, “You are only here as a number. They only have you in this class because they’re trying to reach the quota.” And that was the big thing there: equal opportunity, trying to balance everything. But you really had to perform. You were always under the microscope. And it’s your merit that would get you through. Because you were really treated and scrutinized as if you really didn’t deserve to be here. That’s the unfortunate part about it. The beauty is what I’m enjoying now. But at the time, during that time period, it was the whole integrated, equal-opportunity situation that we had to overcome. A lot of my classmates were rural, smart—very, very smart. And I had some of my classmates had never even been around a Black person. Never even allowed to associate with, or come close to, a Black person. So, it was difficult.

	W:	What do you think is the value of diversity, and being exposed to people of different beliefs, different cultures? You’ve pointed out a deficit for some people, that they not been around people of color before. Maybe didn’t know how to act, what to speak and say. What is the value of the university environment in promoting that?

	J:	Well, I think that was interesting, because when the provost mentioned tonight that their emphasis is getting the admission of a very, very diverse population of students, I think it’s important because the culture of the world has changed. I mean, it’s not about the color of your skin. It’s about what you bring to the table, what you have to offer. And all backgrounds have something that’s beautiful





about them. You shouldn’t look at a person and judge them, and say, “Well, you know, you shouldn’t be here.” The advantage of, and what’s going to happen is, as we become more diversified, and people are accepted for who they are, you’ll see that they have so much knowledge that are just suppressed, just because they feel they can’t do it, or they’re not allowed the opportunity to express themselves. So, I think the diversification of the campus will bring out more of that: Asian cultures from Mandarin, Korean, Black, White; whether they’re gay, whether they’re straight; I mean, it doesn’t matter. That’s not what’s important.

What’s important is what you bring to the table, and what you have to offer the university system. And then, what you have to offer the world.

	W:	What role did leadership play in your University of Florida experience, and what’s your definition of leadership?

	J:	Well, the role of leadership—I had, actually, a mentor in Dr. Llewellyn Payton. He was the first Black to graduate from the veterinary school at University of Minnesota. So, he was actually on faculty here, and he actually was my leader in that way. As a kid, I had a leader, Dr. Charles Bild, a veterinarian that believed in me. And so, to me, a leader is a role model. A leader can be just a thought. A leader is something that gives you a goal—a place that you want to be, you know. So, leadership can come in many forms. That’s what I believe. I believe that.

	W:	Could you share a high point and a low point in your University of Florida experience?





	J:	Well, I guess I would say the low point was, when I started in 1977 there was another black gentleman, John Archer that started with me. When he flunked out, that was kind of a low. And so, I was really alone then. The high point was actually graduation. [Laughter] I was so pleased to walk across that stage and actually be handed my degree in veterinary medicine. So, it was really, it was actually like the five years in between were what got me there. But the first year, losing John Archer, I think that was my lowest experience. Because the guy really tried, but he was being pushed by his family. He didn’t have it in here. And he just really couldn’t cut it. And so, to lose John was probably a low point for me. The high point was actually completing my studies here and actually achieving the degree of Doctorate of Veterinary Medicine.

	W:	This year, the Gator Nation’s campaign is, “When did you first become a Gator?” So, I wanted to know if you might reflect on that and just answer, when did you first know you were a Gator?

	J:	Well actually, the first football game turned me. When I went to the first game, and it was actually the pep rally, the Gator Growl. And they did the whole “Orange! “Blue!” “Orange!” “Blue!” And I’m looking at seventy thousand people screaming “Orange! “Blue!” And I’m coming from Tuskegee, which is a small private college, and I just, I’m like, “Wow!” I was Gator Nation then. That was when I knew I was here. And this was just magical. Magical. It’s in your blood. Like I tell my wife—like that commercial: “I bleed orange and blue.” So, I knew it at the first Gator Growl. The Homecoming Gator Growl, that was it, I knew it.





W:  Maybe there’s something that we haven’t covered, a reflection that you’d like to make to end the interview, and then I’ll let you put in your own words, and then that’ll complete it.

	J:	Well you know, I think, overall, what I can say about the whole experience is that veterinarian medicine has been my passion since I was thirteen years old, and I have lived my dream. And I accomplish daily my dream, because I try to help the pets, and I help the owners also. So, for me, it’s just fulfilling a dream. It’s a dream come true, and I get energy from the animals, and I am just growing and growing and growing in my career. So, I’m loving life.

	W:	Dr. Johnson, thank you very much for being a trailblazer and pioneer. J:	Thank you. Thank you so much.

	W:	My pleasure to interview you.



	J:	Thank you; wonderful interview. [End of interview]





	Audit edited by:	Ryan Morini, April 18, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019