AAHP 106; Bishop; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 106 Walter Bishop

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Marna Weston on August 20, 2010

14 minutes | 10 pages



Abstract: Walter Bishop was interviewed in Perry, Florida at the Jerkins Historic Marker Dedication and Reunion. First he discusses how he was formerly the Vice President of the NAACP in Taylor County (what he believes to be one of the most racist towns in the South). Mr. Bishop mentions Martin Luther King and how he inspired him to fight racism nonviolently. He then discusses Jerkins High School and what integration and the effect of the closing of the school on the Black community. He then discusses the importance of education and for Black students to have Black teachers and other school administrators to relate to. Mr. Bishops talks about how technology has taken away jobs from Black workers and then the interview transitions into him discussing his genealogy. The interview concludes with Mr. Bishop stating that the Reunion is an important event because it is imperative for young Blacks to remember the Jerkins legacy.





Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School; NAACP]



Standards:

SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws SS.912.A.7.5 Social activism

SS.912.A.5.7 National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP)



















For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 106

Interviewee: Walter Bishop Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: August 20, 2010



	W:	Okay this is Marna Weston with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program on August 20, 2010 at the Jerkins Historic Marker Dedication and Reunion. I’m speaking with Mr. Walter Bishop. Mr. Bishop, thank you for speaking with me.

	B:	Mhmm. What do you want first, my name?



	W:	Yeah, well I just said thank you. I know you are Walter Bishop— B:	Thank you, thank you. Right.

	W:	When and where were you born, sir? B:	Perry, Florida.

	W:	Okay.



	B:	And over in the Gulf section of Brooklyn in [19]53. I went to school at Jerkins up until 1970. Then we went across over to the White school. And this here is a historical marker today, and I’m glad to participate in what’s going on here today to show my grandboy just where we started out here, and things like that. Let’s move down there.

	W:	Okay. [Break in recording]

	W:	Okay, well, we’re back. So you were involved also with the NAACP? B:	Right.

	W:	Here in Taylor County?



	B:	Taylor County, the branch in here. I’m Vice President, first Vice President of NAACP. And we got so many issues that we have to contract over here first. I’m





pretty sure you read about it in the paper, about the incident at the bar when they refused to serve a—

	W:	The state representative? B:	Right.

	W:	Yes, sir.



	B:	And then I’ll fight again now, and continue to fight. Taylor County is one of the racist towns in the South—still racist in the South. And we got a long ways to go in the fight. And like I was telling everybody: everybody’s not a paid member, but everybody’s a member, because everybody’s in with the fight that we go up against. So.

	W:	How long have you been involved with NAACP? B:	About ten years, ten years.

	W:	And what got you started?



	B:	Well I always been for the right thing, but learned years ago I was doing it in the wrong way, was violent. So when Martin Luther King came along, then I came to the realization that non-violent is the best way to attack and solve problems.

	W:	Why is that?



	B:	Well, when you’re doing it that way, you can do it the legal way, keep yourself out of trouble, and go through the justice system. Because there are a lot of laws that would take our rights. And so if you going through the violence, you know, that’s a different way to go, but nonviolent is the best way to go.

	W:	Now to quote another philosopher, Richard Pryor said, “If you go to the courthouse looking for justice, that’s all you find: just us.” [Laughter]





	B:	Yeah.



	W:	So what would your response to that be?



	B:	Same, you’re right. And no help, no thing, just—and Perry is, you don’t have really no real justice here. Because, you know, they sit down and they eat dinner together, breakfast together, and, but it’s just a long fight, but we can’t give up.

We got to continue to fight and keep fighting.



	W:	Mhmm. What is the legacy of Jerkins High School in contributing to that fight?



	B:	Well, the realest fight when they shut our school down. Because during the segregation years, they supposed to been equal: some come here, some go there. So, the first year, they took our seniors away, then the next year they sent them back. Then the next year, they shut the school down. So, it was a—in that first year, we had riots, riots, riots, and conflicts, conflicts, commotion. That first two or three years. Because the teacher would tell us that they didn’t want us over there.

	W:	The teachers would tell you they don’t want you there?



	B:	Yeah, the teachers would tell us they didn’t want us over there. And our first riot stemming from the principal calling us “nigger rods.” That was our first riot, when the principal said, “All senior nigger rods coming through the auditorium.”

	W:	What was that principal’s name? B:	Barton.

	W:	And he got on the P.A. and said that?



	B:	Right. Say, “All nigger rods come to the auditorium.” And they just— W:	What was the reaction?





	B:	Chaos. We just tore the school—they had to shut the school down about four or five days. And still, it didn’t really do no good, because we needed that education. So, when you fighting against—like I tell all the kids, stomp out all this foolishness. Get what they don’t want you to have—and that’s an education.

Once you get that education, that’s your legal weapon. Fight anything and anybodies.

	W:	Well, you think that the closing down of Jerkins High School was political?



	B:	Right, I do. Yes I do. Then, when they come out with the—they didn’t want us— say that they repeal, what that was? Corporal punishment? The Whites said they don’t want Blacks beating the kids, so. That’s the same as them taking prayer out of schools. You know, so. I think they did us more harm when they shut our school down and sent us over there, because we ain’t got enough Blacks in the school system for our Black kids to relate to.

	W:	Why is it important for Black kids to have Black teachers and staff to relate to? B:	Way I see it, feel like is Black kids to have Black teachers and stuff to relate to,

because they care, and they know what we up against. And they know we need that education to better ourselves in society. The White folks don’t want us with no education, because when once a Black person get education, they got too much power, and they fight. And it all stemming back from the slavery time: do not teach a Black kid how to read or write. So, once a Black kid know how to read and write, then he’s on his way and got a lot of weapon. Now we can tag them with the computer system, so we moving, like, leaps and bounds. But most Blacks aren’t taking advantage of it. When you walk around and see them





standing on the corner with their pants hanging down, into the justice system. We goes to the prison. Prison like a Black university. So, we—ever since, our young people just making us lose the fight, because they don’t want to do nothing but stand on the corner. Let them know how to read, write pen, they got to get somebody’s take them to the store and tell them the name brand. They go to the jukebox, they got tell somebody: “You know that song?” “What song?” “You know that song?” So, once you know how to read and write, you go on your way. And that’s your best weapon.

	W:	Do you think that the nature of the schools going from segregation and integration was such that Blacks students lost something?

	B:	Beginning, until we realized that we lost. It wasn’t no sense in fighting; just join in and get an education. That was the main course right there: to join in and get an education, because without that education, you is nothing. And now, they done come in to where it used to take twenty-five or thirty people to run a job, now it don’t take but one or two people to run a job now, you know? Lot of peoples at the mill right here have lost they job because they went to technology and computers. Stripping lumber, sawing lumber, that’s what Blacks used to do. Saw up lumber, do all that. But when they got them computers that match that, and separate the lumber, throwing us out of jobs.

	W:	Mhmm. Well, what is the solution? If those jobs have gone and aren’t coming back now, which is probably the case with the technology, what is the solution for people to deal with that loss and to still carry on and have successful lives?





	B:	Well, I still fall back on education. You know, an education, and get right along with the White man to where Black will [inaudible 8:13]. Or just get in with them crowd, and just, where they sit and use computers, we can sit there and use computers, you know? Where they own big companies, we can own big companies. We can own restaurants, we can own motels; we can own anything. Like I said, Black man got so much power if they only just use it. And like I was saying, they don’t want us to gain too much power. Because, just like Martin Luther King: he had too much power. That’s why they took him out. But he left us a legacy, and a roadmap, a map to follow. Now we got President Obama, who’s carried us further, to higher things. So, White man say it thirty, almost forty years ago: “In forty years, y’all’ll have a Black president.” Within the forty years, we have a Black president. So, that letting you know, that’s God send the word. You put God in anything that you do, you have a success. Anything in life, you put God first, you have a success.

	W:	Coming here to the Jerkins High School Reunion must have some level of excitement for you. How are you feeling right now, seeing all these people and listening to the laughter?

	B:	Oh, yeah, I feel real good, because I see a lot of my classmates that when we graduated, they left and they didn’t come back. So, and I see a lot of them, and a lot of them expect me to come, because they contact me and let me know that they were going to be here for these three days. And it’s very interesting, and very happening to see so many people that was ahead of us, like the teachers and the stuff that we didn’t know, all the peoples that was down here, that made





Jerkins, you know. So we come along and kept it going, and I wish that my grandkids were still here so they could keep it going. So, that’s one major reason why I brought my grandboy, so he can see what we are doing and what happened in this history, making markers and historical site, and it just wonderful to be here this afternoon.

	W:	Mhmm. I would like to ask you a little bit about your background. Who were your mom and dad?

	B:	The late Thelma Bishop and the late Izell Richardson. They deceased. As a matter of fact, I was out here, I was going to school, I think I was at seventh grade when my mom died. I think she died in 1969, and my daddy died in 2001. So.

	W:	Do you have brothers and sisters?



	B:	Oh, yes. They all went to school out here and graduated from out here. Only about—let me count: one, two—four of them graduated from out here, and four graduated from across over to the Taylor County High School.

	W:	And what are their names?



	B:	Helen Flowers, Verna Bishop, Thelma Bishop, and Lester Flowers. W:	And how about kids?

	B:	All my kids graduated from across town, yes. W:	And how many kids do you have?

	B:	Three.



	W:	And what are their names please?



	B:	Walter Bishop, Sedacious Bishop, and Laquacia.





	W:	And I heard you mention some grandkids.



	B:	Xavier Brooks, Navia Bishop, Jonathan McKnight, Shalvis McKnight, and



Jacquon Williams.



	W:	How do you feel being a grandfather? You’ve talked about the importance, you wish that they were here to share this experience with you more, and you brought a grandson with you. But why is that important to you, to have your grandkids know about this legacy of Jerkins High School?

	B:	Well it’s important because I just wanted to let them see where I was having to start, from where we started from, and where we are going. And I’ve wasted many years, because they would have learned more, I feel like they would have learnt more about our history then they would over there. And there’s lot of history that’s been made behind all these walls over here. And they will never learn over there what they could have learned over here. Only if they could have just stayed over here or something. And my main focus just now is standing behind them, and make sure that they do all they can to be the best that they can be.

	W:	Mhmm. What kind of activities were you involved with in high school? Were you in clubs, organizations?

	B:	Well, I played basketball over here, and we was in music, and wasn’t too many clubs over here. Maybe for the older kids. And like I say, when I left from over here, I was in the seventh grade, just beginning to get into the high school. And they failed all that out, so I never did get a chance to do nothing but play basketball.





	W:	Okay, were y’all good?



	B:	We was all right. [Laughter]



	B:	We was all right, we was all right. W:	Who was the coach?

	B:	Sam Turner.



	W:	Okay, and what was Mr. Turner’s philosophy about basketball?



	B:	His philosophy was about everything: football, basketball, track, drill, and swimming. And like a lot of us when we went into the military, we became drill instructors, because he taught us how to march, and taught us how to drill, taught us how to swim: taught us to be all that we can be.

	W:	How did he do that?



	B:	Well, everybody had respect for him. And he was the man that wanted you to learn, and you were going learn. So he was a real dedicated man in what he was doing.

	W:	It sounds like he was pretty serious.



	B:	Yes he was, all the time. So, he could tell you more about Coach Turner than I can, because he played all kinds of sports on the under Coach Turner. That’s Reverend Chester Demps.

	W:	Reverend Demps. How you doing, sir?



	B:	I want to let you talk to him, because he could tell you more about Coach Turner and the legacy, because back in the day, that’s when he was coming up. I missed all that, but he came all the way from grade school all the way to graduation, and he can tell you more about the school over here than I can.





	W:	Okay, well thank you, Mr. Bishop! I like to close every interview giving the person I spoke with the chance to have any comments they want on the interview or the activity that we’re at, and when you finish your comments that’ll conclude the interview.

	B:	I’m just glad to be able to take this interview, to let you know the more about what I know about the legacy, and the things that’s going on in Taylor County. Thank you, sir.

	W:	Thank you. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Liz Gray, May 8, 2013



	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, October 8, 2015 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019