AAHP 631; Jenkins and Jenkins; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 631 Jenkins and Jenkins 1-24-2009 Interviewed by Marna Weston on January 24, 2009 17 Pages

Abstract: Marna Weston interviews Jaquelin Jenkins and Eric Jenkins in Deland, Florida.



Keywords: [African American History; Deland, Florida]



AAHP 631

Interviewee: Jaquelin Jenkins and Eric Jenkins Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date: January 16, 2010



	W:	Okay. This is January 24, 2009. This is Marna Weston with the Sam Proctor Oral History Project of the University of Florida. I’m standing at 500 West Lisbon Parkway in Deland, Florida, about to have a conversation with Ms. Jaquelin D—

	JJ:	Dorinda.



	W:	Go ahead.



	JJ:	Jaquelin Dorinda Durant Jenkins. W:	Okay and—?

	EJ:	Eric M. Jenkins



	W:	And could you all please—go ahead EJ:	I’m Jackie’s son.

	W:	Okay. And who are your parents?



	JJ:	My parents is Elizabeth McArthur Durant who just turned one-hundred years old today, and my father was Frederick Douglas Durant, who died at the age of seventy.

	W:	Okay. And what is your date of birth please? JJ:	My date of birth is September 23, 1939.

	W:	And Eric how about you? What is your date of birth? EJ:	My date of birth is November 9, 1967.

	W:	Okay. Where were you born Eric? EJ:	I was born in Rockport, Florida.

	W:	Okay. And where were you born?





	JJ:	I was born in a town they called Lexington, Virginia. My mom and dad had gone up there to work on a job with my aunt Mord and my mom was pregnant at the time, and she stayed there until she had me. And after five weeks they came back home to Deland, and I’ve been here ever since. I will be seventy years old in September of this year.

	W:	Okay. We gonna just have a lil free flowing conversation about today’s activity, because today was really special for your family and just feel free to talk amongst yourselves. We’ll let the recorder go, and why don’t you tell us what happened today.

	JJ:	I was so excited about today. I wanted to do something grand for my mother, but not having a whole lot of finance, my son and I had talked about it. We had decided we would have a cookout in the backyard where she was born and raised. Then my cousins heard about it, and they decided they wanted something more elaborate. So we got together and we planned a dinner, and we planned this big day. And we were gonna have it at a smaller place because it was gonna be given to us by the city to use free. Well, it grew so big that we had to change locations. So then we had to pay for the rental of the Chisholm Center, and that worked out fine because everybody chipped in. They bought food, they cooked the food, they helped pay for the center, and it just worked out great.

	W:	And the Chisholm Center is 520 South Clara Street here in Deland. JJ:	Right.

	W:	Okay. What about your reflections about today, Eric?





	EJ:	I enjoyed it. I moved away when I graduated high school, and I wanted to come back home ‘cause I started missing grandma [Inaudible 2:49], so I ended up moving back here, and I just always wanted to do things for her here. So, when she turned one-hundred, I told Momma last year, I said, “We gotta do something big.” I said, “We done had parties before. We would have them at the church and we done had them here at my house,” and so I just said, “we gotta do it big this time.” I wanted to have a big block party, but like my mom said, they thought it would be better if we had a sit-down dinner. That’s what we decided to do. It turned out very nice.

	W:	It’s interesting to me having reflection. We’re standing in front of your home at 500 West Lisbon Parkway and mother Dei is across the street at 501.

	EJ:	501.



	W:	She talked about when this was a dirt road and when it was trees down here, just a forest as much as you can see, and then when there was straw on the road.

What kind of a contribution do you believe that your mother, your grandmother, has made for this community being here a hundred years?

	EJ:	She catered to the kids very much; all the kids in the neighborhood. Everybody know her from the age of two years old now up until they adults. We call her the sherbet, the kids the called her the sherbet lady, and a lot of the kids even call her grandma, because she was the grandmother at the Sugar and Spice. And when she was at the Duval home—she used to work at the Duval home too didn’t she?

	JJ:	Mm-hmm.





	EJ:	Yeah. She was at the Duval home also, and she just adopted all these grandkids.



The Duval boys and girls club. They come over here and they buy thirty to forty sherbets every day all through the summer.

	W:	What do you think about your mother’s contribution in that respect? Having been on this spot, right within a hundred yards of where we are, for a hundred years.

	JJ:	I think she has contributed a great deal. My mother and father separated, and we moved back out here with my aunt Mord in the home place, my mother worked very hard. She worked two jobs, sometime in the daytime, and then worked at night. But her contribution to the community, everybody love her because she’s the same all the time. She treats everybody the same way, and she demands respect, which is something that has been lost throughout our Negro history, and people just respect her and she has done everything she can possibly do.

Anytime there is something going on in the community, if she can be involved in it, she gets involved. And it just makes me feel real great to know that I have a mother like that, and I try very hard to patter myself after her, because I feel like that’s what God put us on this earth for; to be a beaming light. He tells us that we are the light of the world and we are supposed to do things that will improve our surroundings that will encourage others to do that which is right.

	W:	I talked to your mother a little while ago, and I talked about the concept of the servant leader, and I shared with her some comments that the mayor of Deland had made today in the proclamation. You heard the tape earlier when we were listening?

	JJ:	Yes.





	W:	What are your reflections on your mother as a leader in this community and maybe some things about what the mayor said?

	JJ:	I think she’s a very good leader. She’s a quiet person, and she’s a no-nonsense person. She is straightforward. And one thing you will learn about her, if she doesn’t like something she’s not going to baby you up and pretend that it’s okay. She’ll tell you she don’t like it, and I admire and appreciate what the mayor said today about how he thinks it’s just great that the family got together and did something like this. He think it’s great for our little town to have a leader like her in it, and I just wish more people would bring out the good things about their families and let it be known, because it’s so hard to show the other side of the world—the White Caucasian’s, the Chinese, the Japanese, everybody—it’s hard to let them know that Black people are just as smart or just as good a leaders as any other race of people. So it made me feel very very good that the mayor had a lot of good comments to make about my mom.

	W:	I was surprised with something of this scope, you know, an African American woman turning one hundred the same week Barack Obama was elected president. I know you did press releases, and you talked to the local media but nobody, there was no media coverage today, even though the mayor was here. Thinking about your grandmother’s leadership and her contribution, what do you think about that?

	EJ:	I was kind of upset with it, because I even called the Black radio station out in Orlando, 94.5. One of the DJs down there, my grandmother actually pretty much raised her, Jojo, and I emailed her, and I also called and left messages. She





never returned my call. It was like it was ignored from the media, and my wife even told me she called channel 6, my mom told me she called channel 9, and I did all I can to try get some more media to help us. Time just went on. We started planning things, so I just let it go. But I was glad the mayor was there, and I enjoyed that part of it. He had very good things to say.

	W:	Well I know you don’t think it’s personal, but I wanted to go back to the point of how we prioritize things. This should’ve been something the entire city of Deland, really the state of Florida, should celebrate. I thought about the mayor’s proclamation. I hope at some point somebody decides to maybe get the state of Florida, maybe governor Chris, to recognize this. Why do you think that people don’t spend as much attention to something like this?

	JJ:	I think it’s because they have seen so much negativity on the television, in the newspaper, about the Black race to when somebody does do something extraordinary, they just figure, “Oh well, it’s just something they’re doing.” I know once in the same newspaper, the Daytona Beach News-Journal, when my daughter finished Clark University and got her Master’s degree, I called them and I gave them an article to put in the paper, because I was so proud. She was a child from a small town, and she went so far to get her Master’s, and I asked them to put an article in the paper. I carried them a picture. And when they put the article in the paper, it was so tiny ‘til you needed a microscope, actually, to find it and read it. And I was so disappointed—they never did put the picture in.

So I called them, and I asked them, “Why?” They said, “Well, you have to pay for every inch.” I say, “Well, you never told me that. If you had told me that when I





brought the article, and I would’ve asked you how much, and I would’ve waited until I had the money to put it in.” And I told them, I said, “If this had been where she was out doing drugs, where she was out prostituting, where she was out robbing somebody—guess what—she would’ve taken up the whole front page and half of the inside.” I said, “But when somebody Black do something that is intelligent and upgrading, you people play it down, and I don’t like that.” And we had another incident where my friend of mine her mother died, and she wrote an article—no it was for her mother’s birthday, and she had a birthday party. And she wrote an article up and carried it down there and paid for them to put it in the paper, and they put over near the obituary column. It had everybody thinking that her mother had died, and she was still alive. So we stopped taking the paper for a long time, and I start back taking it here recently, because I wanted it to get the inauguration paper. And I was a bit disappointed even in what they had in the paper on the inauguration. I expected them to have practically the whole paper dedicated to it, but they only had like a special section. And so it just irks me, and it makes me feel really bad that our Black people have strived and scuffled and worked so hard to keep themselves above float, and when something really really special happen, they just wash it under the rug and think it’s nothing to it.

	W:	What do you think, Eric?



	EJ:	Well, I think it could’ve been more…. a big write up about it. I mean like what mom was saying, too. You see these big paid football players or basketball players, they—I guess if you not making millions, you know, you not gonna get a big write up in the papers. If you want to get in trouble, first thing you do is you





look at the paper. It’s a big write up about one of the football players or basketball players, as long as he did something bad. I think it should’ve been, the paper should’ve—I’m surprised they weren’t even there. Normally they would be there. Have a write up for the paper, but unfortunately they weren’t even there today.

	W:	Well, I’m hopeful that there probably will be something that follows, because with the mayor being here I think that adds—he shouldn’t have had to be here for it to be important, but I think him being here added something really special. I want to congratulate you all for having such a special day for her, because it was really quite marvelous to be there and be in the floor. I was most surprised when she decided to sing. [Laughter]. What did you think about that when she actually sang?

	JJ:	I wasn’t surprised at that, ‘cause that’s what she does all the time. When she worked at Sugar and Spice daycare, they had what they call—the state has a grandparent day. So on the day of grandparent day they had a program, and she was singing to the kids, and that’s the song she sang. When we had a birthday party up at her church, her eighty-fifth or eighty-seventh birthday party, I tried to sing the song to sing it to her, and I wasn’t singing it right, and she stopped me right in the middle. “Nope, nope, nope, that’s not the way it goes.” [Laughter]

	W:	Now what is the title of the song? What is it called? JJ:	“I’ll be loving you always”.

	W:	That’s right, and she sang it to Eric.





	JJ:	Yeah. So she got up during her birthday, and she came up there and she sang the song and talking about, “That’s the way it goes,” and everybody just cracked up. So I wasn’t surprised that she did it ‘cause she loves that song.

	W:	How about you, Eric? What were your reflections on her—your grandmother singing?

	EJ:	Well I knew she was gonna probably—like a long time ago grandma, they used to have a little group, and we all got a little musical in our family. My mom she sing, my grandma sings, and she had a brother that played base and play the guitar, and play piano. So I knew she loved to sing. It surprised me her [Inaudible 13:49] to sing to Erin, but I knew—I thought he was going to help sing with her.

	W:	Well, here comes the singer now. [Laughter] EJ:	“I’ll be loving you always”.

	ED:	Excuse me y’all, do you wanna go over there and see what can go in the refrigerator with all that food. I don’t know what to do with it.

	JJ:	Want it at your house? ED:	Uh-huh.

	JJ:	Okay, I’ll go back and do it. ED:	[Inaudible 14:07] in there? JJ:	Yeah.

	EJ:	Yeah.



	ED:	I’m gone see if she want any of it. W:	All right, I’ll let you by.

	ED:	You want some of it?





	JJ:	Mm-mm. We got stuff at the house. W:	It’s still your day! [Laughter]

	EJ:	And yeah. Just you know I enjoyed it, because I knew she was—it was funny because everybody went to clapping and I know my grandma. I was sitting beside my cousin, and I told him, I say, “Oh she still singing.” And when everyone stopped clapping she was singing “I’ll be loving you always” still.

	W:	Two standing ovations, because everybody sang and then she went back to it again.

	EJ:	Right, right.



	W:	That was such a delight for you all. At first, she just walked across the street and nothing’s going on. You went into the house, still working, and it’s what? 9 o’clock at night?

	EJ:	Yeah, normally she’d be in bed every night she comes. My son think she’s her age—

	JJ:	His age.



	EJ:	Yeah, his age. And I get off of work at nine at night and sometimes she’ll tell him, “Imma sit ‘til your daddy come home.” And some nights she be already gone. On the weekends, he expect for her to spend all the day with him. When he gets mad, she works out here in the yard, she works—she can do this yard, this yard.

	W:	These are big yards. These are not small yards.



	EJ:	Yeah. I told her I took Friday off to prepare the yard for the cookouts and for the fish fry. When I got off of work, because I went in there to open up, when I got back, she done did all this yard already.





	W:	Well now. We have to stop here for a second. We’re talking about this. Now these are big yards. I’d like for you to describe in your own words, how big are these yards that we’re talking about that a hundred year old woman rakes?

	EJ:	I got a corner lot. My property goes, it’s eighty wide, and it drops back about a 120 in the back.

	W:	Okay that’s on this side at 500. Now what about across the street at 501 ‘cause that’s a big yard, too?

	EJ:	They turned her house around so we were looking at hers about eighty wide and 135-150 ft.

	W:	Okay. And she rakes these yards.



	EJ:	Every summer at a certain time—she don’t wait ‘til no special time—she gets out there, and she takes the ho and she grades her whole backyard up. And she plant collard greens, ‘cause she know my wife love collard greens, and I like conch peas and she plant her peas, and I mean they grow; in season, out of season. She can grow. She has an orange tree, she got a broom and work on out there. She has a placenta tree. When they tore her house down, she got mad because she had a lemon tree, she believe they took it but…

JJ:  They did. I had given it to her for Christmas one year and the contractor told her he was going to move it ‘cause they turned the house around facing Lisbon, and he asked her did she want it. She said, “Yes, I want my lemon tree. My daughter gave me that tree from Christmas, and I want to keep it and plant it,” but he took it. So I told momma, “I said well I hope it rots before it catch root.” [Laughter]

W:   But she has a green thumb?





	EJ:	Yes, she has a green thumb. JJ:	Yes, she does.

	W:	Okay. Do you think that’s added to her longevity that she’s stayed so active, you know the yard, the walking, and stuff like that?

[Car Honks]



	JJ:	Yes, I think it does, because—



	EJ:	When I was sixteen, I had first just got my license. JJ:	[To Unknown] Okay, baby. I’m coming.

	EJ:	Well I used to get mad with her ‘cause we had a Winn-Dixie right here about, I would say, about half a mile from here.

	JJ:	You can finish the conversation with him.



	W:	Okay. I need to get you to sign a deed of gift though so hang on. Wait let me stop this just a second. We’ll continue, but I can’t use the interview if I don’t.

[Break in Recording]



	W:	How her longevity started. Okay we’re restarting the interview. Eric’s mom had to leave, so it’s just me and him. We’re still at 500 West Lisbon Parkway. I’m still just caught here thinking about how a hundred years ago your grandma was in the same spot and the things that she saw and how things have changed here.

But I also want to talk to you just about how sharp she is and not only longevity but you know, her mind is right. She is talking to people, engaging, carrying off conversations. Talk to me about your grandma. How do you feel about her?

EJ:  Well, like I said, when I was young her mind is real good, even when she was in her early seventies; sixties, seventies. I was getting old enough to start driving,





and I was about fifteen years old and just started to get my restricts, and she used to walk to the store and there’s one thing about her, she’s very impatient. Her mind is good, but when she say she want you to do something, she want it done. She want you to go to the store, she want you to go to the store right then. So normally, when she called and say, “I need to go to the store and get some sugar,” and stuff like that, I’ll just go ahead and get it and then pick it up like that, but she always out here got a green thumb with the yards and she’s out here working with some roses. Next thing I know, she done dug up me an area for my roses. I put flowers in front of my house, she done dug out an area for that. And she frustrate me sometimes she say, “You got weeds growing in there. An oak growing in your tree.” I say, “I’ll get to it Grandma. I’ll try and do it on the weekend.” When I come home by the weekend it’s already gone. But for mentally wise, her mind is very good. She actually helps my son with his homework and my wife does ‘cause I’m at work at night, so she does his spelling words and stuff and my wife works with his math, and I pretty much work with his reading, but she’s got a good mind on her still.

	W:	She was telling me a story last night, and I’m sorry I didn’t get a chance to talk to her about it today, but we’ll talk to another time about the first Black person to own a car in this area. And then she talked about how she drove when she was sixteen.

	EJ:	Yeah. She almost ran over somebody, so she ain’t never drove again.



	W:	Okay. So, she started driving at sixteen, and for eighty-three years she’s not driven again.





	EJ:	Mm-mm



	W:	So how does she get around and get to places she’s going?



	EJ:	Like I say, she used to walk. My grandma had walked downtown, and when I was in school and I would get out of school, my grandma would walk me from school and keep us until my mom got off and instead of calling us, say, “Jaq, we finna—I need you to come pick the kids up,” or whatever, she would walk us to the house, and that’s about a mile and she would walk us home. And then my mom would take her home or my dad would take her home, but she used to always walk around, and after she got a little older she would call and say she need to go some places. But it’s sometime I come out here and she not home and I wonder where she’s at. And she just walked to the store. I mean like, in her nineties.

She’ll walk to the store now. But she say that’s what keeps her going.



	W:	Well it’s truly amazing and impressive when you see these stories on television about older people.

	U:	I’m looking for [Inaudible 4:42]. Where is she? The other lady. EJ:	She’s…

	W:	You hear stories about people who, they, in Florida, you know older people, they leave home and they’re lost and people—they have to try to get people to find them, but she just routinely walks a lot.

	EJ:	Yeah. She walks around. And she always goes where she wanna go. She goes to the store. She know how to get there.

[Break in Recording]



	W:	Okay. Go ahead. We’re back.





	EJ:	Yeah. She goes to the store. It’s a little friendly store around the corner here. It’s about a half a mile she’ll walk there and get little stuff that she needs. Sometime she had a friend that was living, she passed away now, but she used to walk around to Ms. Johnson house. Sometime we would come out here, we be wondering, “Where Grandma?” [Chuckle] And we all have a key to the house so we can always go and find she’s in the house or whatever. Sometimes she be in the back ironing, ‘cause she irons our clothes. She determined she gone do that. Sometimes she’ll say, “Eric, I’m getting too old now. My eyes bother. I’m not gone iron for y’all no more,” and I come home and get ready, my wife will start ironing, next thing she call me and say, “Eric, meet me at the door.” She want the clothes, so she can go back to ironing again. And that might just be one week take off from ironing but…

	W:	Last night she was in the kitchen cleaning up. She was in there for over an hour and so she just stays—has stayed active.

	EJ:	Stay active. All the time. If my wife go out of town, and I’m home by myself, she thinking now she gotta come over and wash dishes, make my bed up, all this stuff.

	W:	All right, well Eric I really appreciate the interview, and I like to close every interview by giving the person I’ve talked to the opportunity to reflect back upon what we talked about. Maybe there’s stuff that we talked about that you want to add to or maybe something that we didn’t talk about, but after you finish those comments that’ll conclude the interview.





	EJ:	Well, when I got married my mom gave me a house that my other aunt had and we started living in that house ‘til my wife got pregnant, and I decided to start looking for a bigger house. And we hunting, we hunting, we hunting, and we found property and we thought building a house over and started building a house and we never could find what we wanted. So I thought about the house over here, and I decided to buy the family home. So I went to my mom and dad and I asked them, I said, “Ma, how much y’all want to sell the house for?” And my momma said, “Well, I’ll probably sell it for about 70-80 thousand.” My daddy say, “If for you, I’ll just sell it to you what we owe on it.” Cause what my mom did when my grandma gave her the house, they decided to put the house on Section 8, and the lady that was living here tore the house up, so they decided to borrow money on the house and get it refixed up. So they had fixed the house up. So one of my cousins was renting the house from them for a long time and then when she decided—when her mom passed away, she had went back to her mom house, so I told my wife, I said, “There’s an opportunity we can buy this house right here.” So I got the house pretty reasonable, and it’s kinda good, because I’m in the family home. I’m the grandchild and my grandmother got the house, so I told my mom it’d be good for her because now, I sold the old house, the little house, I got the family home and it took the burden off of him not to pay all that money back. So it was a good thing for me to take over that mortgage and then my mom, they got their house taken care of, it’s paid for, and now they don’t have to worry about paying for this house. So we been living here and my son, we had my child, he was born with spina bifida, and I did a lot of research on





that, and he’s a happy child. And my grandmother she loves him to death. Every time we go, he has surgery or stuff like that, she be sitting on the porch waiting on us to get back. She always come over and sit with us and stuff, and if he’s in the hospital for a little while, I come back, and I’ll drive down here and come pick her up, and take her down there so she can see him. Pretty much that’s it. I love it here. I’m not going anywhere until the Lord take me away. But I’m always wanting to be close to her, so that’s why I moved back home. That’s why I’mma be right here until the Lord take one of us. That’s it.

[End of interview]



	Transcribed by:	Ashley Brickhouse; September 17, 2019 Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero March 27, 2020

	Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 25, 2021