AAHP 131; Gainey; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 131 Andre Gainey

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Andre Everette on September 3, 2010 25 minutes | 12 pages



Abstract: This interview was conducted at the 2010 Black Alumni Weekend at the University of Florida. Andre Gainey grew up in Miami, Florida, and describes the community and some of his educational experiences there. He describes being confronted by a racist White UF student as soon as he first got to his dorm as an incoming freshman. He also describes other variously positive and negative experiences with diversity at UF, and feels that his experiences helped to prepare him for later life. Mr. Gainey recalls some of the things that students did for fun, and some of the friends and mentors he developed during his time as a Gator. Lastly, he expresses his fondness for UF and offers some hopes for its future as an institution.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 131

Interviewee: Andre Gainey Interviewer: Ronald LaFrance Date: September 3, 2010



	L:	This is Ronald LaFrance with the UF Oral History Department. I’m here interviewing Mr. Andre Gainey. Today is September 3, 2010. To get started I’d like to know what’s your birthday and where were you born?

	G:	Born in Miami, Florida on January 3, 1963. L:	How was life growing up for you?

	G:	I had a good life. My parents were very supportive. My grandmother was a teacher. I was smartest kid up until like 10th grade. Well-rounded, played in the band, had my own dance group, involved in the church. Well-rounded, pretty good.

	L:	What were your parent’s occupations?



	G:	My mom was a nurse and my father was a longshoreman. L:	Were you the first one to go to college in your family?

	G:	My mother had a degree, my father had gone to FAMU for two years before he stopped. My grandmother had a master’s.

	L:	So you had an educational family?



	G:	I knew there wasn’t a choice in the matter. Books were important. Education was important. Grades were important. Family was important. Doing the right thing was important.

	L:	You said you attended UF from [19]85 until when?



	G:	I got here in the August of [19]80, graduated in May of [19]85. I left in June, June of [19]85, May of [19]85.

	L:	How did you end up at the University of Florida?





	G:	How did I end up at the University of Florida? I graduated from Miami Springs Senior High School. During my junior year I was trying to get myself in shape, exercising to go to the Naval Academy or the Air Force Academy. I was supposed to go to the Naval Academy and I was playing in the band one day for a pep rally and they were announcing scholarships. They announced my name for a full ride to the University of Florida as a Presidential Scholar. The counselor called me to the office and called my mother. She found out two things. She found out I could go to the University of Florida and we both found out that I had enough credits to graduate that year. I ended up graduating a year earlier.

	L:	Interesting. What was your expectations of Gainesville?



	G:	I grew up in Miami, Allapattah, which is a very mixed area at the time. We hadn’t had a great influx of Cubans yet, but I grew up around a lot of Latins, Blacks. We were about fifty percent Black, thirty percent Hispanic, and twenty percent we still had White. I went to Springs, which was pretty much the same mix of 1/3, 1/3, 1/3. I had a well-rounded and diverse group growing up, having gone through gifted programs. Back then when you were growing up you left the school and you went with a group. There were times I was in an all-Black atmosphere in the classroom and there were times where I was the only Black in the classroom. I got used to being in a diverse situation. Coming to Gainesville I just thought there was going to be more diversity.

	L:	When you first got here, how did you feel when your parents left and all that?



	G:	I had a terrible first experience here at the University of Florida. My first day was extremely traumatic and it set the tone for a lot of things that would happen. My





father dropped me off, he unpacked me, gave me a few words of wisdom, and left. After I put my things in my room and set myself up, I went down to the kitchen. I was in Hume at the time, the third floor of Hume. When I first got in the kitchen there were some guys there. I’m the only Black at the time, there were a couple of White guys there. The first thing out of their mouth was, “Do you want to hear a joke?” All of a sudden things got real different, all of a sudden it got quiet. I was like, “No I don’t think I want to hear a joke.” One of the guys looked at the guy as if to stop him. He said, “No you gotta hear this joke.” I said, “No.” He says, “No it’s a funny joke you have to hear this joke.” I said, “Okay what’s the joke?” He said, “What’s the difference between a n-n-n-nigger and a c-c-coon?” I said, “No that’s alright I don’t want to hear the joke.” He said, “No what’s the difference between a n-n-nigger and a c-c-coon?” I said, “No let’s not go with this joke.” He said, “There is no difference, a nigger is a coon.” We got into a fight. My father hadn’t hit 75 yet and here I was fighting. So I got in trouble right away.

Funny thing about the fight, when I look back, is by the time—I left the dorm that night. I found some friends near Murphree and hung out. I came back the next day and my RA wanted to talk to me—The funny thing about that is I never had that experience again with those guys. It was as if they disappeared or if they just forgot about it. We all got along greatly. My first year in my dorm everybody got along great. There were only three Black guys to really hang with in the whole dorm. The rest of them were White, Asian, and everybody got along. It was like a big flash of lightning then dropped into diversity that worked out fine. There would be other incidents every now and then, but it wouldn’t be anything that would





shape—that sort of woke me up to look out for it and to be able to prepare myself to deal with it in a different type of way had it come again. That was my first shock at the University of Florida.

	L:	Was that like your first racial incident in your life?



	G:	Not my first racial incident in my life, but my first racial incident in my life with someone of my own age. I had an experience with a police officer before in Miami Springs.

	L:	After that incident, did you feel like you were being blamed?



	G:	I took it as a wakeup call that hey, there might be a different part of the world for you to recognize, a different part of the world that you need to adjust to, or be prepared for. I pretty much went both ways on that. There were times when it was wonderful. Then every now and then there would be another blip. I was like, okay. At some point was it me going through a period of racial filtering that I was going through, or was it really happening? When you look back you realize it’s a little bit of both. Everybody goes through an angry period in life. It’s just what about. Mine happened to be an angry period of racial filtering at the time.

	L:	Did you feel any animosity?



	G:	I did the animosity thing. It roared its ugly head as they say, from time to time over the entire five years. Probably for some time afterwards. I went into education, so there is no room for it in education. I think it was out in my social life that I would run into it from time to time. One of the things I tell people today, is I think I learned most of my coping mechanisms for dealing with diversity at the University of Florida. There is no better melting pot to test all of the different





things that you’ve heard. We had Asian guys on my floor as a freshman that I met that were geniuses, but got in trouble drinking. That was squashing the stereotype in different ways. There were guys that barely got into the University Florida, White guys that got in on scholarship just like you that didn’t come from money, that were brilliant guys. One of my best friends, a guy named Doug, I think still works in the Engineering Department at the University of Florida. We had wonderful diversity on our floor. It was Hume Hall between [19]80 and [19]83 were about what colleges were about.

	L:	Did you live in Hume all your five years here?



	G:	No I lived in Hume Hall for two and a half years, I think I lived in Broward a half year, and then off-campus the rest of the time.

	L:	On campus what would you do for fun?



G:  I played a lot of flag football. Hume had the mud bowl. Fraternities had parties. I joined the Zeta Kappa chapter of Phi Beta Sigma. I was extremely active in that. At the time the Sigmas were partying, partying.

L:   They still party today.



	G:	We brought Blue & White Weekend into existence during the time that I was here.

L:   When you moved off-campus were you still as involved?



G:  I was still as involved. A lot of the brothers lived on campus, a lot of people I was visiting lived on campus. I even marched in the band for two years.

L:   Oh really? How was that?





	G:	That was a wonderful experience. It was wonderful to be a part of that excitement. It’s amazing to go from rehearsal boredom to the excitement of game day. That was a wonderful experience.

	L:	Did you get to participate in the Homecoming Parade?



	G:	Gator Growl. We did the Homecoming Parade, we did Gator Growl, we did everything.

	L:	So you got everything for free. How did you manage your living expenses? I know you had the full ride.

	G:	I actually at one point lost my scholarship. My grades dipped one time. I was out of school for a semester, I got in some trouble, I was out of school for a semester. After that I went to loans and working. I worked in Library East, I worked in the stacks for years.

	L:	Oh, I hate that.



	G:	Don’t hate the stacks.



	L:	So you worked a little bit in Library East?



	G:	I worked a little bit in Library East, worked off campus, I’d have a job off campus every now and then at a bar. I forget the name of the bar right now, Club Inferno. My grandmother helped me out, my family helped me out some as well.

	L:	How were you able to juggle work, school, and partying at the same time?



	G:	I wasn’t. If you partied as much as we did back then, and you worked, and you studied, you knew you had to pass exams, you had to write papers. And at some point you had to pick a major and get out of here.

	L:	So what did you do for food? Did you cook or have a special hang out spot?





	G:	Sweethearts cooked, girlfriends cooked. I hope that hasn’t changed. Of course pizza, Ratskeller. You’d eat campus food, off-campus food, pretty much whatever you can. You’d go to the grocery store, find a way to survive. A loaf of bread and a pack of bologna could go a long way.

	L:	Did you ever get sick here? Did you go to an infirmary?



	G:	I went to the infirmary. Health was very well taken care of back then. As long as you had your insurance the infirmary would make sure you were taken care of. I went through an episode one time and they had me on Maalox Plus. My stomach. That’s when I learned how to coach my stomach to be prepared for all events.

	L:	Did you have a mentor here?



	G:	Well Rock, who’s also the fraternity undergrad sponsor, was pretty much our mentor. The people you came in with you stayed close with them. Me and Dwayne Taylor Disco, we met at Preview. He stayed in Hume as well, stayed on another floor. We pledged together and we were lifelong friends, we were supporters. Once we got together we supported each other, even when the fraternities weren’t getting along, we supported each other as far as getting out of here, as far as our purpose for being here. We knew why, no matter how much partying we were doing, we knew why we were here. That was important to us.

	L:	Did you have any relationship with actual Gainesville citizens, like people in the community?

	G:	We lived in the Ville. Back then you had to go to Fifth Avenue, you had to go over there if you wanted some good soul food. We adopted families, the twins Yvette





and Yvonne, Diane. We had family over in the Ville, people that we still keep in contact with today. Just different people, the name wouldn’t mean anything. True family, we had Sunday dinner, cookouts.

	L:	Were you involved in a church to?



	G:	I think I may have gone to church. Other than the fraternity I don’t think I went to church. I think we went when the fraternity had to go. I think that kept a lot of people in it ‘cause we had the fraternity then you have the Black Student Union, so the Black Student Union might be performing at a church, so that kept us in church.

	L:	What was your sources for getting news in Gainesville?



	G:	The Gainesville Sun. The Alligator was your news. Alligator’s still free right? L:	Yeah.

	G:	Yeah, you had to sit on the set and at least have the Alligator in your hand and act like you were reading.

	L:	This is another interesting question. Did you participate in the boycotting of the naming of the O’Connell Center?

	G:	I did not participate in the boycotting of the naming of the O’Connell Center. I have no recollection of why or why not. I’m probably one of those people that was so into sports that you put something under the name of sports and that part’ll fly over you. I later realized and later have shared the story with people from time to time. From time to time I still get the comments from one of the people that were with the HBCU, friends of mine, and they’ll bring it up. People haven’t forgotten it.





	L:	Is there anything you remember here that was a big issue when you were going to school here?

	G:	The biggest issue was probably throwing frozen oranges at the Hurricanes.



There was a lockout once. I don’t remember there being much. I was also a part of Zooman and the Sign, which was the first Black theatre play done here at the University of Florida. If anything that was major news, I think we were so focused on the campus that it was something that was handled and moved on. I don’t think Gainesville was really going to allow itself to be protested for too long. It was going to make sure that—Gainesville and the University of Florida was going to make sure that we attacked a problem within a reasonable amount of time.

Somebody agreed or somebody protested something, and I vaguely remember different protests and I vaguely remember them being handled, and they were okay, that was the right thing to do. There may have been even a couple of fraternity issues where it would make the paper as racism or alcohol. It would be addressed. That alcohol problem may not have been solved. I guess that’s why we had the drinking age changed on us.

	L:	Did you have any—besides the first fight—any major race issues?



	G:	You act like you have notes now. I had a major issue in the dorm with—I was going to visit my sister. A young White lady jumped out—my sister and brother were actually here for a little while. I was going to see my sister and she was dating one of my fraternity brothers. We saw each other and we were kind of loud in our greeting. A young lady jumped out in the hallway and said, “Nigger this, nigger that. You guys are loud and that’s why you never going to get any place.”





She said, “I’m not afraid of you.” She jumped into a karate stance and nipped me across the chin. Before I knew it I had hit her. People were standing there and I’d knocked her down and actually broke her jaw. They looked for me for a day or two. By the time the description got out that I was this 6’5” Black guy. I was very good friends with Officers Herndon at the time and they came to my job. They said, “You know we’re looking for you.” I got arrested, spent the night in jail.

Charges were dropped, case was expunged. I was given a choice to leave school for a semester or be put out. That’s why I left school for a semester, that’s why I lost my scholarship, staying away from the girl. When I look back it, it’s not a pleasant memory. To say it’s a learning experience, it would be learning of tolerance or power. Some people to this day say, “You just hit the wrong girl.” Because this girl was from Palm Beach and her family supposedly lived next door to the Kennedys. She was a very powerful young lady. Something had to be done. In reality, this is the [19]80s, you getting into a fight with a woman, you knock a woman down, you are liable for her damage. I could try to make it into a race thing but it wasn’t a race thing. It wasn’t a self-defense thing. It wasn’t like she was really going to hurt me. It was just nineteen or twenty years old, that’s how you react to those things, if you haven’t seen it enough to know that when this situation comes that is not how you react.

	L:	Are there any other stories, or funny things, good or bad that you remember that you want to talk about?

	G:	I got in trouble in the band once. I did a split in the Gator band when the football team ran out. Lomas Brown, a frat brother and high school friend of mine. We





had planned that he was going to give me a hi-five and I would do a split. No one in the Gator band had done anything like that. Did a little split and popped up.

They didn’t even spot it until film. That was just funny for me. Stepping, fraternity rivals, parties, air band contests. We had awesome concerts on the band shell.

	L:	When you come back as an alumni how do you feel? Do you feel like the campus atmosphere has changed?

	G:	When I first moved to where I was living in Orlando, I was actually coming back and I saw when they first started building. The explosion now makes me respect more and more what I have. As I travel and I tell people I’m from the University of Florida, it’s funny because when you first graduate from the University of Florida you don’t realize how knowledgeable and the weight of your degree, what it means. When you tell people you graduated from the University of Florida, people stop and they listen. They know that you’ve been through something, you can make decisions. You are well-rounded, you’re educated. Whatever you say you’ve learned you’ve studied it to some extent. It’s respected and revered.

When I come back and I see what they’ve done I see everything that people continue to say about the University of Florida is true. We build upon our reputation and it doesn’t look like we’re going to stop. We’re always trying to say how can we get better. That’s the way I look at it. Anybody that I meet that has graduated, or even students that I meet because I’ve been in education for twenty years, when they talk about coming to the University of Florida that type of person is somebody’s that’s looking to do better, looking to get better in their life, looking for a challenge as well. The University of Florida prepares you to meet





the challenges and it’s always seeking the next challenge. You can see it in everything we do, even the buildings. As I was driving in today I said, “Oh I think that used to be a parking lot,” and it’s a huge building now. It continues to grow. It reminds you that you are a life-long learner because the university is still growing, so you should always be growing.

	L:	So you’re proud to be a Florida Gator?



	G:	I’m absolutely proud to be a Florida Gator. It’s great to be a Florida Gator, without a doubt. There is something special in that orange and blue. There’s something special in the experience that you have. It’s not just being a Florida Gator. I truly believe it has something to do with the experience at the University of Florida is a blessed experience and I believe that the University of Florida is an anointed institution.

	L:	Is there anything else you want to add to this? G:	That’s it.

	L:	Thank you for your interview, sir. G:	My pleasure.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Andre Everette, 2013



	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, October 18, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019