AAHP-­491;; Dave;; Page 10

Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program



The picture can't be displayed.College of Liberal Arts and Sciences

	Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz	The image part with relationship ID rId7 was not found in the file.








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu





The image part with relationship ID rId1 was not found in the file.



AAHP 491 Ernestine Dave Interviewed by Ann Smith on May 5, 2017

1hour 5 minutes | 28 pages



Abstract: Ernestine Dave grew up in Tupelo Mississippi. She and her family eventually moved to Detroit, Michigan where her stepfather was a sharecropper and her mother was a nurse. Dave talks about what it was like growing up in Detroit. After graduating from high school she and her baby sister moved to Florida. With the job security slowing up for Blacks, Dave decided to volunteer with the United States Army. She toured many duty station domestically as well abroad. She recounts her experiences in the military in various duty stations. she did a tour in Japan and was eventually discharged at Camp Stoneman, California

Keywords: [African American History; Veterans’ History; United States Army; Detroit, Michigan; Japan; Camp Stoneman, California]



	SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

	SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws



AAHP 491

Interviewee: Ernestine Dave Interviewer: Ann Smith Date: May 12, 2017





	S:	My name is Ann Smith, and I am a volunteer at the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Today’s date is May 12, 2017. I am in the home of Ernestine Dave, and she has agreed to interview us for the Veterans Project. Now, is Ernestine Dave your full name or do you have more?

	D:	No. Just my name.



	S:	Do you have a middle name? D:	No.

	S:	Okay. Where were you born? D:	Mississippi

	S:	Where bouts?



	D:	In the county [laughter] [Inaudible at 00:29] S:	All right. Okay –

	D:	I think that it’s about fifteen miles away from Tupelo, Mississippi.



	S:	Okay, and so was this out in the country? Was it rural, or was it a small town? D:	Very, very rural.

		S:		[Laughter] When were you born? D:	19th, November 1932

	S:	Okay. All right. Did you grow up there? D:	No. Michigan.

	S:	Now how did that happen? When did you move? D:	It was [19]42.





	S:	What did your father do?



	D:	My stepfather was a sharecropper, and my mother taught school. We moved to Michigan, and they both got jobs in the factory. This was during World War II, but after that, you know, people were laid off. So, my stepfather worked in the produce terminal. Then, he started driving ice trucks for companies delivering ice to different companies. My mother went back to school and she took up practical nursing. She was a practical nurse.

	S:	I see. And whereabouts in Michigan was this? D:	Detroit.

	S:	Detroit. So you were in a city where there were more job opportunities even when the war ended.

	D:	Not many for Black people. Yeah, after I got out of high school, I was looking for a job. Well I look in the paper that had job opening, and they would said “White only” or “Light”. I was neither White nor light. So, the Board of Education said that they had some jobs for people. Some of my friends went down, they serviced them, and got the job down at the Board of Education. I went down and they gave me a job to see a woman, and it was to do house work at older people’s houses.

	S:	Well, let me step back. Did you have any brothers or sisters? D:	Oh yes, I’m the first of six.

	S:	And so are you youngest or— D:	No, I’m the oldest.

	S:	Oldest. So your younger siblings then moved to Detroit with the family?





	D:	Yeah we were all kids, yeah. My baby brother was born in Detroit. My baby sister was six months old when we moved to Detroit.

	S:	I see. Now, I imagine the schools were segregated, or not? D:	In Detroit. No.

	S:	Did you have any trouble there?



	D:	Yeah you had trouble with new kids moving into the neighborhood from the older kids that were already there before World War II. They didn’t treat you too good.

	S:	Being a newcomer is not-­



	D:	I was a country hick to these “city-­fied” people.



	S:	[Laughter] that’s right. You had a lot of lessons to learn didn’t you? D:	Yes

	S:	When you first got-­



	D:	Well the first was to learn how to fight. S:	Really? How did you learn that?

	D:	Well, every day when we would come home from school. There were these three sisters, for some reason or the other, they would follow us home, hitting us in the back. We would go home crying. My sister and I and my first cousin, and I kept doing it. Mother says, “If you come home crying tomorrow, without fighting back, I am going to whoop you.” So, I decided to whoop them. It stopped it.

	S:	Did it really?



	D:	It stopped it… Some people pick on you as long as you allow it. S:	I think you’re right. If those people are bullies, they just continue. D:	That’s right. Some people just want someone to kick.





	S:	Well, that must’ve been hurtful for your siblings too. Did they…?



	D:	Well, I don’t think so. Not too much, because they always relied on me. I was their protector, so people didn’t mess with them because they knew had to come through me.

	S:	So you got pretty good as the protector? D:	They knew not to mess with me. So…

	S:	How far did you have to come home from school to come home? Was it a long way?

D:  Probably about ten to fifteen city blocks. S:  Did you live in an apartment or a house? D:  No. House.

	S:	Were the neighbors White or Black? Or some of both? D:	So, up near me were White.

	S:	Did you have friends in those neighbors? Were they welcoming? D:	Uh-­huh. Very welcoming.

	S:	Well now, how did you learn to be city-­fied? If you come from a rural area, what things did you have to learn that you didn’t know before?

	D:	I don’t know. All I know is people in the South dress differently. Like mother didn’t know that we needed leggings;; it was so cold. When we moved to Detroit, it was the end of December the first of January. Mother knew it was supposed to be cold there so she went to town and bought us all new coats. We got to Michigan and those coats were like spring coats. We needed something heavy, and they





didn’t sell them in the part of Mississippi that we were in. The clothing was different, and I think we were kinder to people.

	S:	Do you think the pace of life was different?



	D:	Oh definitely. Definitely because in the country, I don’t care whether you’re in the South or the North, you don’t know that many people unless you go to church or school and you’re around a bunch. In the city, you have a lot of people to contend with, and I found out different parts of the country they call certain things a different thing. Like in Mississippi, we called a soda, we didn’t say soda. We called it a cold drink. I remember going to the store asking the people were the cold drinks were and they showed me the water fountain. In Detroit, we called soda a “pop.” I went to Iowa and asked for a pop, and the -­ [Inaudible at 09:52-­ 09:56] -­ said where do you want the pop?

	S:	[Laughter]



	D:	It all depends on where you were from. S:	Well did you like school?

	D:	Yes.



	S:	Did you have a favorite a subject or?



	D:	Social Studies. When I was in grade school, I guess I liked history and naturally gym.

	S:	Did you like sports? Were you athletic?



	D:	Yes. I couldn’t participate too much because I had to go home and babysit. I really didn’t have a childhood because my mother always worked, and I was the first born. You take of babies when you’re a baby yourself.





	S:	That’s right. As the oldest, you take on the responsibilities of the younger ones. D:	Not because you want to. [Laughter]

	S:	Are they still close to you? D:	I think so.

	S:	Do they live anywhere nearby?



	D:	No, my baby sister moved when I moved to Florida. A few years later, she moved to St. Pete. Sister moved to Africa but she’s passed now. I had a sister in Phoenix, Arizona. My baby brother is still in Michigan.

	S:	You’re kind of spread all over. Well now, when you graduated from high school, what did you do?

	D:	I couldn’t find a job.



	S:	That’s what you were telling me before.



	D:	I couldn’t find a job. So the only job that I was able to find, they made you take an IQ test for that, was at Palace Model Laundry. I don’t care how careful I was I burned myself.

	S:	What was your job?



	D:	I was a shirt presser. They had you on production. You were supposed to press so many. No, I couldn’t do that. I admired the uniform, but I hadn’t thought about going in service. There was a lady working there that was a little older than me. She said “I am going into service.” I said, “You are?” She said “Yes I am going to go and take a test today. “I said let me go with you.” So we went down to take the IQ test, and it was just she and I. When we finished, they told her, “I’m sorry but you didn’t pass.” So I got my coat to go too. They said “We’re talking about she





didn’t pass, you passed.” I said “Oh”. [Laughter] I wanted to go but I was scared. I hadn’t been away from home before, so I said I didn’t know if I wanted to go or not. But I ended up going and I was glad I went.

S:   Did you talk it over with your mother and stepdad?



	D:	Well, I talked to my mother. She knew that there were no jobs available in Detroit. My first cousin had gone to Chicago, and she said to come to Chicago and that she can help me. But, she was kind of wild. My mother said “No, I’d rather you go to service than you go to Chicago.” I was eighteen and your parent had to sign for you.

	S:	I was going to ask… So when were you inducted? D:	No, we were not inducted. You volunteered.

	S:	You volunteered? And did you get any pay? D:	[Inaudible at 00:15:01-­00:15:09]

	S:	Okay. So you volunteered for the service. Did you volunteer for the Army? D:	Yes. I wanted the Marines but you had to be twenty, and I was eighteen. S:	Oh I see. When did join? What year was that?

	D:	1951.



	S:	[19]51. Okay. So did you go to basic training?



	D:	Yes. I went to basic training at Fort Lee, Virginia. S:	How was that? Did you find it hard?

	D:	It wasn’t hard, but I wrote my mother every day. S:	[Laughter] I can understand that.





	D:	A person has to get accustomed to being away from home. So want may want get away from home, but after you leave home you want to go back.

	S:	That’s right. It makes a big, big difference. Doesn’t it? D:	Big difference, yes.

	S:	Did you make any friends at basic training?



	D:	A few. But basic, you don’t have too much freedom. We didn’t then. Things have changed a lot.

	S:	What did you find most difficult?



	D:		When it was my turn to do KP. Because as far as exercise and stuff was concerned, I always felt that if you could do it, I could do it too, you know. I didn’t believe in anybody being able to do something that I couldn’t do, so. They would have you to do stuff and I did it

	S:	So that was marching…and?



	D:	Marching, and different exercises. Everything except KP.



	S:	And you didn’t want to major in that, did you? [Laughter] That’s almost like a penalty isn’t it?

	D:	It certainly is. And I was so stupid. The way they had it each person only had to do it one time. When my time came, I did it. Another woman when it was her turn, she was sick, and they asked for volunteer. I thought “Well if I volunteer I won’t ever have to do it again.” I volunteered and when my time came again they got me. I said, “But I did it!” [Laughter] They lied to me. A lot of people that’s in service say they aren’t gonna volunteer for nothing because you’ll get tricked.

	S:	Well so, what happened after basic? How long was your basic training?





	D:	Twelve weeks I think. I think it was twelve. I would say eight. S:	And then after basic training, what did you do?

	D:	I went to Camp Gordon in Georgia for eight weeks. S:	And what was that for? More training?

	D:	That was for -­ my eyes water because I have dry eyes. It’s funny for them to water from dry eyes but those are the facts of life. I went there for the Edington General Message Center that’s where the radio operators went and they had to have people in the signal message where we went to be there with the operators. They sent me and there wasn’t too many Black people in basic training. I have a picture there. The others they sent to supply or cooking. I said I wasn’t going to go to supply. I’ve always been a rebel. I wasn’t going to supply or cooking, or they were sending them to be aids in the hospital. I said I wasn’t going to clean anybody’s bottom or get rid or take care of the bedpans. So they sent me to the message center in Camp Gordon, Georgia, which ended up being a disservice to me. Because after I finished the units that needed people, they did not accept Black people.

	S:	Oh really?



	D:	That’s right. When I was in the service, there were two other Black units still that Truman hadn’t gotten rid of. One was in Back Creek Michigan. The other was in Fort Knox Kentucky. So, I was sent to Fort Knox, Kentucky and I worked for the Edgington gym. I was never able to work in my field because they didn’t take Black people in my field.

	S:	Oh my goodness. Well then, what was your job?





	D:	I was working as a receptionist. I had a nice job. Fort Knox was a training center for the third upper division so we had a lot of recruits there, and they were going and assigned to different places in their families were constantly trying to get in touch with them. They were moved to so many different places. It was up to us to find them when people tried to get in touch with them. Tried to keep up to where they were, so we could let their people know where they were.

	S:	That’s really an important job.



	D:	You’d be surprised by how many fellas didn’t write their families, or get moved so quick. It was during the time of the Korean conflict so, you know, people moved quite a bit.

	S:	Well, did you like that job after you got into to it? D:	Uh-­Huh.

	S:	Did you?



	D:	[Inaudible 00:22:33]



	S:	How long were you there? D:	Almost two years.

	S:	That’s wonderful. What was your rank? D:	I was a PFC.

	S:	PFC. Okay



	D:	I found out later that during a time of war, your promotions are given to the people in the field. The people back home they haven’t got but a very few positions to give you to elevate yourself, or you stayed the same thing forever. Not because of what you do, but because of where you are.





	S:	That makes sense from other things that I’ve heard. Yeah.



	D:	Well I think should get first choice because they are risking their risking their life.



But you say like, “Well why can’t I get a promotion?” “Well we don’t have anything for you.”

	S:	There was so many places that they could get points and do optional things. And so, when you finish the two years as a receptionist what did you do then?

	D:	I moved to Yokohama, Japan. I am working with Prisoners of War, but [Inaudible at 00:24:04].

	S:	Oh really, whereabouts in Japan? D:	Yokohama

	S:	Oh you said that. I’m sorry.



	S:	Well now, how did you get over there? Did you fly or did you go by ship?



	D:	I flew to San Francisco. We left from Pittsburgh, California. But we went by ship, it took us about twenty-­one days.

	S:	I was going to say-­



	D:	But, with women it was nice because we were with the dependents. The men were down in the hole. I’m told it was terrible, but mine was nice.

	S:	It was at least a good choice for you that time. D:	Yeah, it was good accommodations.

	S:	Before you went over to Japan, did you have a chance to go home and visit with your family, and see your mother?

	D:	Oh yeah, I went.



	S:	Did she know you were going to Japan?





	D:	Mh-­hm.



	S:	Was she happy about that?



	D:	No. She said I was too far from home.



	S:	Were you excited about it, or did you dread it or..?



	D:	I dreaded it because I had this man that I called myself in love with, and he got sent to Austria, which was called the European – called it Uka. So signed up to go to Uka. They weren’t sending too many women, so an order came in for one woman. My commanding officer and the Assistant Commander said “Oh Ernestine wanted to go.” She put me to put in Foko instead of Uka. I was so mad I told her “I didn’t want to go to Yoko!” She said well you said you wanted to go overseas, and this is the only thing. I said, “Well I don’t want to go there.” She said, “You going”. And that was it.

	S:	Oh my gosh.



	D:	That’s what you don’t volunteer.



	S:	[Laughter] That was your second lesson. D:	But I’m glad I went. I really am.

	S:	Well, tell me about Japan. Tell me what assignment you had.



	D:	I worked in the mail room. Took care of the Prisoners of War mail. The regular mail they had Japanese people taking care of that, but you had to have security clearance. They had me taking care of that. And there was still a remnants of World War II. The Japanese were terribly poor then. But I tell you the city was so clean. You didn’t see bile and rags and paper and stuff like that because they couldn’t afford it. But …they had nothing. We paid for people to work in the soup





kitchen for us. We had the pay just local and everybody. All of us had maids where we didn’t have to usher or make our beds or nothing. It was a life of leisure. It was beautiful.

	S:	Well what were your interactions with the POWs? D:	I never saw them.

	S:	Never got that close?



	D:	Unh-­uh. I was in the mail room. I was in Japan and they were in Korea. S:	Oh I see. I see. You didn’t have prisoners of war there.

	D:	No. Just the prisoners of war mail came through me. S:	I see.

	D:	And people…I didn’t know a thing about… People would send their sons or husbands chocolate and a letter. You could imagine what that letter look like.

	S:	Yes. [Laughter] I’m imagining. So you were there, did you learn anything about Japanese culture?

	D:	Um-­hm. Yeah, I got a chance. I went to women’s hotels that I had heard about.



And I thought it was so unique. You went down in the ground to the tub, and about four people could bathe at the same time. You’ll pull off your shoes, and that’s where I fell in love with chicken fried rice. I didn’t know it until I came back to the states that it was Chinese that wasn’t Japanese. But that’s what I had in the past, chicken fried rice. But all, with all the music and stuff sound the same to me.

	S:	And how long were you in Yokohama? D:	A year.





	S:	One year.



	D.	Uh-­huh.



	S:	Then you were stationed someplace else? D:	No.

	S:	You left the service there?



	D:	They sent me back home to be discharged from there. After the Korean War they discharged a lot of Veterans because they didn’t need them anymore. You didn’t have the opportunity to say “I want to stay,” or “I don’t want to stay.” They went according to your MOS and they said we don’t need this many.

	S:	Well, so you were discharged, where in the United States? D:	Camp Stoneman, California.

	S:	In California.



	D:	Yeah, if you were Japan, they brought you back to California, and then they flew you home.

	S:	I see. Well, were you ever apart of the service after that? D:	No.

	S:	What did you think today when you look back on your service? What are the good memories that you have? Did you meet some people that you liked or did you?

	D:	Yes, it was very interesting. But, I know that things were different even though there was segregation all over. I know it was worse in the South. When I was in Georgia, I met this Black fella and his best friend was White, and they were both from New York. They went everywhere together. So, they said we are going into





town. I said “I want to go!” So I went with them, and we were hungry. We knew we couldn’t eat at the White restaurants so we walked to a Black restaurant. We waited and we waited and nobody came to wait on us. So I snagged one of the waitresses and say “Why don’t you wait on us?” She seemed to look at the window. I hadn’t even looked because we were talking so. People had they heads pressed up against the window. I said, “What’s happening?” She say, “They think you are a prostitute in here with them.”

	S:	Oh…No such thing as having a friend.



	D:	Anyway, they called the police because Black and White were not supposed to be together. At Camp Gordon when we got out of school, you could you’re your civilian outfits. The women, we didn’t have any city things, so we decided to go in to town. There were four of us. I was the only Black. We wanted to go get us some pretty dresses to wear. Went in town. Got these dresses. Picked them out. Went into the dressing room. The sales lady came in there and she say, “What are you doing in here?” Everybody looked and said “Trying on clothes.” She said, “I mean her!” They said, “She’s trying on clothes.” The sales lady said, “She can’t be in here.” My friends said, “Why not?” She said, “Well she’s Black” Well, she really said colored which I hate. So she said “She’s colored!” They said, “Well, if she can’t be in here then we can’t be in here.” She said, “Oh okay! Okay! That’s okay.”

	S:	Oh what a shame!



	D:	So, just life now. Such rough life. But people are friendly. So if I couldn’t stay, they couldn’t stay.





	S:	Well I hope that things are getting better. It’s certainly has caused a lot of heartache.

	D:	Yeah. If they aren’t better, it’s overt.



S:  That’s right. Your mother was glad to see you come back. D:  Oh yes.

S:  You had stories to tell about far off places;; didn’t you? D:  Uh-­hm. But I still had to come back and look for a job. S:   And that was probably not that much changed huh?

	D:	No. Well, everybody was kinda having problems then because after the war, you know everything – they don’t need much of nothing anymore. All these people coming back. Well everybody, all the companies, if you left a job, the company had to hire you back. Well I left Palace Model Laundry, I wasn’t going back. They said, “Oh she can come back.” I said “Nope not me.” So, I looked for a job. I couldn’t find one. I started taking tests, and I got out in March. The federal government called in September from some test that I had taken. So I worked for the federal government until I retired.

	S:	Really? What federal office?



D:  It was for the Department of Defense and War in Michigan. S:   Well, that’s wonderful, particularly that they called you.

	D:	Well, I passed the test.



	S:	You certainly did. You deserved it.



	D:	For veterans, if you passed the test, they had to give you five extra points which put you up five points higher. If you were disabled, they got ten points.





	S:	What was your job?



	D:	When I first went in, it was for file clerk. S:	Did you like that?

	D:	No.



	S:	It’s hard to find anybody that likes filing.



	D:	But I worked for the engineering division. They had those engineering drawings that were huge. And you’d be trying to fit that stuff in. If you had the smaller ones, you were good. But when you those big drawers, and for the originals they had them in a steel vault with no air conditioning. In the summer time, if you had to go in there, it was miserable. Somebody had to go.

	S:	Did you like your co-­workers? D:	Oh yeah.

	S:	Was it a good working group? D:	Very good working group.

	S:	How long were you in the position of a file clerk? D:	Maybe six years.

	S:	Then you got promoted?



	D:	Yes. I got promoted while I was there, but it was still file clerking. Engineers would come and need to sign for certain things, and it was up to you to pull the programs or drawings and pull the things he needs to make whatever they were going to change it to. So, it was I could say engineering division, but I worked for the Department of Defense. But when I left they called it the tank automotive command. Out there they made all the wheeled vehicles for the military. Chrysler





or other places made the tanks and things, but the government personnel was over it. We had all the drawings and all of that. You know, we supported it. But they did the manufacturing.

S:  Did you like that job? D:  That was the filing.

S:   More filing.



	D:	Yeah and then I got promoted to data processing. S:	Well that was just kind of new then, wasn’t it?

	D:	Yes.



S:   It was just beginning.



D:  Well they had key punch, and what they called small scaled computers. But, I got first I went as a control clerk. I take back and then small scale computer operator and large scale.

S:   Did you have classes to learn all of this?



D:   Yes. Yes. Yes. And then they were…Most of the people were college graduates.



They took a few people that were working that they figured deserved a break. They took them and sent us to Rock Island for sixteen weeks for computer programming. I ended up. I did automatic data. I’m not supposed to say “day-­ tuh”. He said I’m supposed to say “dat-­tah”. I became Automatic Data System Process Officer.

	S:	Wow that hardly fits on a name tag does it. D:	Well they called it A.D.P.S.S.R.

	S:	Told you. [Laughter]





	S:	Well you were really moving up there, and it was kind of a new field. D:	Yeah, I was there thirty three years.

	S:	I know. You certainly deserved it.



	D:	I retired with thirty six years counting my three years in the service. Thirty-­three years with the federal government.

	S:	Did you really?



	D:	On my fifty-­fifth birthday, I never went back to work. I had thirty six years and I said “Bye-­bye.”

	S:	But that’s miraculous, you know, I think when people look back. That’s a real advantage when you’ve been with the government and you say “I’m retiring.” and you can. That’s wonderful.

	D:	Let me tell you something. I retired because my husband and I had looked at some property in Florida, and we had a house built. We were still living in Michigan and it was the biggest, prettiest house I had ever had. And I didn’t want anybody to stay in it. If you stayed in it, you couldn’t smoke and you couldn’t have and animals or children. My husband said “[Inaudible at 00:44:25]. I said, “You got that right.” We could come down as often as we could, and he retired six years before me. He would come and stay longer. We didn’t have anyone to live in it, and we had to keep up two houses. The minute I was eligible I retired and moved to Florida.

	S:	Whereabouts in Florida did you tell me? D:	Springhill, Florida.

	S:	That sounds wonderful. That sounds like a dream comes true.





	D:	It was. I was very happy.



	S:	Well now we need to back up. When did you meet your husband? D:	That husband. [laughter]

	S:	Oh [laughter] you’re going to have to have a score card aren’t you?



	D:	I have only been married twice. My first husband I married him after I came out of the service. That was in 1954. I came out in March and married him June. He was a good friend of my first cousin. He drowned in 1979. He and a friend went fishing and the boat capsized.

	S:	Oh how tragic. I’m so sorry.



	D:	Our youngest son was graduating from high school in June. He drowned in May.



Our oldest son was in his second year in college.



	S:	How sad. I am so sorry.



	D:	Thank you I got over it, but it was so terrible. S:	Well did you stay in the house?

	D:	Uh-­huh. Yeah I stayed in the house until I moved to Florida. S:	You moved to Florida when?

	D:	1987. December of [19]87. S:	And moved here?

	D:	Springhill. Got that house built in [19]82, and went back and forth as much as I could. Moved permanently in [19]87.

	S:	I see. And then, you met your second husband? D:	He worked with me.

	S:	I see.





	D:	Not in the same department, but we both worked at the same place. S:	Wow. Sounds like you have had a full career.

	D:	Yeah. Not doing too much now. S:	What do you do now?

	D:	While I play [Inaudible at 47:33] .I play NASCAR. I play Mexican train, pinochle and go church. I go to the casinos occasionally.

	S:	That sounds like a pretty full life.



	D:	Uh-­huh. If you stay out the casinos. [Laughter] S:	Yes indeed.

	D:	Since I retired though, I have done a lot of traveling. I have really enjoyed it. I see people wait until they think well I still feel good and they still working. I say pretty girl don’t you gone retire and gone travel. I know if you wait too long to travel you won’t be able to travel. Because when I went to Europe, you have to climb up to really sightsee. You got to be able to walk and do things, and now if I waited until the age I am now, I can’t see all the sites. I can’t see. Because I am not physically able.

S:  Where did you travel? D:  Well, I went to Alaska. S:   Oh. Did you like that?

D:  Uh-­huh. I went to Hawaii. I went to the Caribbean Islands. I went to Europe. S:  Whereabouts in Europe?

D:  England, Belgium, France, Holland, Switzerland, Austria, Germany, and I think something else. But I spent a week in Scotland with a friend.





	S:	Oh how wonderful. D:	So yeah.

	S:	Those sound like wonderful places to visit.



	D:	They were. The thing about it is I was going a month. You wish you could go back to the places you like.

	S:	That’s right.



	D:	Like I thought Austria was so pretty with the flowers. Everybody had the flower boxes look like in the windows that the scenery was so beautiful.

	S:	You didn’t get back. Did you take pictures –?



	D:	Yeah I had a lot of pictures that I took. I found out that I could buy those that were already taken, and I stopped taking picture.

	S:	That’s right. I’ve done the same thing. D:	Mh-­hm.

	S:	Find a photograph that’s better than you could’ve made.



	D:	That’s rights. And when you go on those trips like the first cruise I went on. If you go on trips where they’re going to a different port or a different city every day, you don’t see as much as you would like because you’re spending half of your time traveling. But I can say that I’ve been there. I don’t know how much I saw, but I saw as much as I could for the short time I was there. I liked Italy and France. I thought those were interesting, and Spain too.

	S:	And you’re married still to your second husband?



	D:	No. And you know when you were saying how sad you were for me for losing my first husband? Well I’ll tell you the truth. The divorce for my second husband, that





divorce took longer for me to get over then my husband’s death. Because when a person dies, you know you won’t see them anymore, but that divorce looked like it takes something from you and it takes you quite a while.

	S:	A long time.



	D:	Yeah but, I am whole now. S:	That’s good. I’m glad.

	D:	Me too. [Laughter]



	S:	Now, how about your children? You still keep in pretty close touch even though they’re…

	D:	Oh yeah. I’m their mama. I have two boys and a grandchild.



	S:	Oh Wonderful! Wonderful. That’s a special thing to be a grandparent. Isn’t it?



	D:	Uh-­huh. Yeah, but I’ll tell you something. I love my granddaughter dearly, but I’m glad I don’t live in the same city. Because my daughter-­in-­law’s mother had spent most of her time babysitting, and I am not the babysitting type. I like to go places and do things. I would get my granddaughter two weeks in the summer, take her to Disney World. I’ve taken her to Niagara Falls. I’ve taken her to Arizona and different places where she would be able to go. But, even when she was little I kept her two-­weeks. Then, she went back.

	S:	Well that’s a lot of responsibility, and I think grandparents, you know, they love their grandkids, but it’s hard when you’re older and don’t have the energy you did when you were younger person.

	D:	I definitely haven’t got the energy now, but when I would take her with me, there were times when I wanted to do something, but it wasn’t appropriate for a child. I





know when I took her on a cruise and I said “Oh she’ll like this because she hadn’t been on a cruise.” And they had these programs for children. She went one or two times, and then she didn’t want to go anymore. And like when I have her here in the summer, I enroll her in the classes, the summer classes, she go a time or two, and she says “I don’t want to go anymore.” I say, “Why?” She say, “We’re different.” I say, “How?” She say, “It’s just like they’re green and I’m blue,” she say, “We don’t do the same thing.” Well one thing she was very protective. I sent her to this group with these kids in [Inaudible at 55:13]. She say “Naw.” She didn’t want to so I had to spend my time going to Silver Spring and Disney World, or someplace I didn’t want to go. Take her horseback riding and other things.

Though she can say that she has been able to do stuff that.



	S:	She wouldn’t have otherwise.



	D:	That’s right. Because I take my quarters and take her.



	S:	When you look back on your service with the government, did some of those experiences or all of the experiences together change the course of who you were somehow? Or did they form you in some way that if you had had a job out of high school you wouldn’t have been the person that you are?

	D:	Going to the service I think was a wonderful thing. One thing I found out more about other people and their cultures, and I think about it and I think that I was pretty naïve. Like when I got to Japan, you had to have this identification card, and when they put our nationalities I put colored. They say colored! I was accustomed to being in the United States when you put your race down, I forgot





that I was an American. Being in service taught me that I am an American. And I was proud to be an American.

	S:	Absolutely.



	D:	That’s one thing that service taught me.



	S:	You only see that clearly when you’re not in America.



	D:	That’s right. But people that have never been any place, all you know it’s like the Whites got one thing and Black got another one. But when I was in service for the most part, I was an American just like the rest of the people. Although all of it wasn’t integrated, it was more integrated than any other place I’ve ever been. It makes you proud to be an American.

	S:	Absolutely. Well, when you look back, are there things that you would have changed about the decisions you made, about the service, or about coming home, or about retiring? Are there anythings in the past that you said oh I wish I hadn’t done it that way?

	D:	Well, after I retired, I said that I was going to go back to school. And then I say “For what when I don’t and can’t go back to work?” But while I was working, I went to school for a while to take up some college classes, and I and my children and a job. It was just too hard. I did it for two or three years. I said “forget it,” but if I were to go back, I would have gotten my education before I had my family.

Instead of trying to get it afterward, but during that time, if you were like I was a file clerk working and my husband was working and there were other veterans that wives were working had better jobs paying more than my husbands. They could go to school under the GI Bill and claim their wife. But I couldn’t claim my





husband, you know, things were not far for women period. You know so, I went for a while then I go mad. I say “I want this extra money too” so I just quit.

	S:	Do you have GI benefits for the VA Hospital?



	D:	Now GI benefits have nothing to do with the VA hospital. Does it? S:	But can you go to the VA Hospital?

	D:	I do go to the VA, but I’m in category 8 which is the highest category. Because I’m not [Inaudible at 01:01:00 -­ 01:01:04] I was in service. So, I pay co-­pays.

	S:	I see.



	D:	Do you go?



	S:	I’m not a veteran.



	D:	Oh, I thought you were a veteran.



	S:	Uh-­uh. But I worked at the veteran’s hospital as a nurse.



D:  I guess people just assumed that if you go to the VA you are getting stuff for free. You get things for free according to what category you are in, but it’s much better than nothing.

S:   And you use the VA in Gainesville, right?



	D:	Well, for some things, I have critical kidney disease S:	Oh do you?

	D:	So my kidney doctor is in Gainesville, but I go to the clinic here in Ocala. I have outside insurance, so what everyone doctor tells me I check the other one see if they are telling me what I want to hear.





S:  [Laughter] Well are there other things that I have neglected to ask you that you would like to make sure is on this oral history. Are there things I haven’t asked that you would like to include?

D:   A little bit. The Village honor flight.



S:   Oh that’s right you were on the honor flight.



	D:	Oh yes! They treat all the veterans like they were kings and queens. It’s impossible to see that they baby you and pamper you. You feel like you have died and gone to heaven.

	S:	That’s wonderful! That’s wonderful! D:	They treat you so good,

	S:	How long ago did they ask you? D:	June 14th.

	S:	I understand that it’s a wonderful experience.



	D:	It is. I wanted to go but then he says “Do all of it all in one day.” I said “I am not able to do that.” He say “People are a lot older than you.” It’s funny you have so much fun that you forget you’re tired. You stay up all day and all night, but you’re busy all the time. You’re enjoying yourself.

	S:	So if you had someone ask you about the honor flight and whether they should go, you would say yes by all means?

	D:	Yes, I have convinced two other people to go since. S:	Have you? Good!

	D:	But it’s funny, I guess because I have always been so independent and so one or two people have told me say “Can my wife go?” I say “No it’s for veterans.” Oh I





don’t want to go then, we’ll have to go together. I have never been where my husband has to go where I am going all the time or where I have to go where he has to go. But, I guess that’s why I am single. [Laughter]

	S:	Well, but you had an early training of being independent and do things, and going places.

	D:	But my mother was independent. S:	Was she?

	D:	Yes, very independent.



	S:	So it came naturally to you? D:	That’s right.

	S:	Good for you.



	S:	Well officially, Ernestine, thank you so much for your interview. You have been just a joy to talk to. Thank you for your service and thank you for the oral history.

	D:	Thank you.



[End of recording]



Transcribed by:

Kelly Richardson,

June 3, 2019

Audit-­Edited by:

Sandra Romero

June 12, 2019

Final-­Edited by:

Sandra Romero

September 29, 2020