AAHP 269; Miller; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 269 James Bennitt Miller African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on July 14, 2012 49 minutes | 22 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Mr. James Bennitt Miller describes a few noteworthy moments in his life and sheds light upon how segregation was intertwined in them; this includes his recollection of the all-black community he grew up in and of his time in the Army during the Vietnam War. Additionally, Mr. Miller details the years he spent in college before and after the war, and the subsequent time he spent working three different jobs while at Buckey. Further, he discusses his multiple marriages and divorces, along with his children’s lives, before touching upon his favorite teachers and humorous times in high school. Finally, he speaks of the ways in which integration affected the students of Perry and his sentiments toward Barack Obama’s second presidential campaign.



[Keywords: African American History; Lafayette County; Vietnam War; Perry]

















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 269

Interviewee: James Bennitt Miller Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date: July 14, 2012



	W:	This is Marna Weston for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program on July 14th, 2012, at the Jerkins High School Reunion in Perry, Florida. And I’m speaking with Mr. James Miller.

	M:	James B. Miller.



	W:	Mr. James B. Miller, thank you sir. Thank you for agreeing to do the interview with us today. We appreciate it.

	M:	You’re welcome.



	W:	Mr. Miller could you say and spell—you’ve already said James B. Miller—but could you spell your complete name?

	M:	My name is James, J-A-M-E-S, Bennitt, B-E-N-N-I-T-T, Miller, M-I-L-L-E-R. W:	And when and where were you born, Mr. Miller?

	M:	I was born in Lafayette county, called Mayo, in 1938. And I was the second son of Essie Mae Miller. And my father died two years later, and we moved to Perry. And from Perry, to West Palm Beach, Key West with my aunt. Because I was living with my aunt, and her husband was in the military. So, we did a lot of traveling.

	W:	Well-traveled. What is your actual date of birth? M:	11-4-[19]38. November 4th, 1938.

	W:	And what was your dad’s name? M:	Solomon Miller.

	W:	And where are your mom and dad from, originally?





	M:	My father was from Ebb, Florida, that’s in Greenville. And my momma’s from Lovett; that’s in Madison County. Both of them in Madison County. But it’s thirteen miles from Greenville.

	W:	You mention that you were born in Mayo. Where you born in Mayo proper? Or in the outskirts? Dade or something like that?

	M:	Yeah, Dade.



	W:	Okay, Dade. And were you born in a hospital, or were you born at home?



	M:	At home. You know, they had midwives during that time. You really didn’t know what day your was born, because at that time midwives wasn’t too up on education, and they’d give false names and, you know, misspelled names, and date of birth, and all that. So, we had to get all that straightened out once I got of age.

	W:	Did you have a different name given to you by the midwife than the name you ended up with, or have you always been James D. Miller?

	M:	I always been James B. Miller.



	W:	And the midwife, do you happen to know who she was? M:	I don’t remember.

	W:	Okay. At some point, you had been told in the past?



	M:	Yeah, because we didn’t—we left Mayo to come here. So, Momma never did tell us.

	W:	You said you were the second child. M:	Yeah.

	W:	Who was the first child?





	M:	His name was Theotis Miller. He was born in Ebb—Monticello. I mean Perry. No, he was born in Greenville. He was born October 12th, 1936.

	W:	So when you grew up, you grew up generally in an area mostly with African American people.

	M:	Mostly, yeah.



	W:	Was there a sort of dividing line, or a place that you know you don’t go to these places or that places?

	M:	Yes.



	W:	How did it work out that you knew where your community was?



	M:	Oh, when I came back to Perry, being through Dade, we had, it was segregated from Monticello—I mean, all the surrounding areas, you know? It was—you couldn’t get nothing but secondhand stuff. You got secondhand books from the school, from [inaudible 4:12]. We didn’t have, you know when you have teachers—qualified teachers, like Math, English, and whatnot, you didn’t—you had the people that graduated from high school, and then they went on and start teaching. They didn’t have a degree. So mostly, what we had here in Perry was, you know, they taught us what they knowed. Which was good. The White had all the benefits. They had everything; football. We had to get they secondhand books. Secondhand football, talking all this here. We built our own football field. And they, the mill always gave you the long boards and the nails and say, “Y’all go out and build it yourself.” You didn’t go in the same places. You only worked in places that you know safe and well. Like Lockhart Drugstore; I worked there. Okay? And they sit up to the dining room, and say, “Nah, you can’t do this, and





you can’t do that.” It’s a lot of things that we experienced at this time. And knowing that we had to have an education. My momma believed in education, stepfather believed in education. We didn’t come up—we wasn’t poor. Because my stepfather, she married again to Fletcher Anderson. You know, he was a good stepfather to me and my brother. So it was two of us during that time, and when he married again, then I had another sister named Annie Ruth Anderson, and another brother named Charles Anderson. And my stepfather at the time, in the [19]50s, in the early [19]60s, he gave us allowance of thirty-five dollars a week, and that was a lot of money during that time. So, we really didn’t want for nothing. I had my first car at the age of fourteen.

	W:	What kind of car was it?



	M:	1941 Mercury. And I wanted the convertible and he gave us that one, that old car. So I took it a axe and cut it off, cut the top off, and got a whooping for it. [Laughter] I really enjoyed that car. So I was punished for cutting it off, but, I enjoyed a lot of that. But like you, you always had a car. You always wait for it. When we was coming up, my momma taught us, “You going have to give me half of your money.” And I was real stubborn, because I say, “I don’t feel like giving you half of my money.” You know. So she talked to me one day, and she say, “Son I’m not—nary a penny that you make and bring in here don’t pay nary a bill, but I’m really getting you ready for adult life, so when you get married and have to take care of your children—you going have to be married, you going have to take care of your wife.” And say, “Now, the car was a good example. The car was an example for you, because you had a wife and four children from the





beginning.” [Laughter] I mean, she explained it to me that way. And I really didn’t think about it until I left, finished high school, and I wanted to go to junior college. I had five scholarships graduating from high school. So I wanted to go to Rock Hill, South Carolina, finish up junior college where all my friends was going. She didn’t want me to go. I made my choice, I had to get on the bus and go to New Orleans. [Inaudible 9:08] I enrolled in Dillard University. Went there for about six months, and then because I didn’t change my classification, I was drafted in the Army. And from the Army, we still had those boundaries, you know?

	W:	The Army was segregated then.



	M:	Yeah. Very segregated! You know? Because we had to travel by—at this time, I don’t know that you’d do it, but we had to travel by train from New Orleans. And we had to sit in the back coaches. But after you got to the North, you could go anywhere you wanted to. You could go to the White. Even Basic Training, we was segregated.

	W:	Do you remember your drill sergeant?



	M:	His name was Sergeant Joe Jackson. I remember that real well, because— W:	Most people remember the drill sergeant! [Laughter]

	M:	He was real mean! Real mean. He was real short, and he came up and— [Laughter]—they would say, “I’m your momma, and your daddy, your sister, and your brother.” And I didn’t like that. I can’t stand this, you know? But I guess that was the way they was teaching then.

	W:	Where’d you do your Basic Training at?





M:  Camp Leroy Johnson. They phased it out right after I left. [Laughter] Left there and went to Vietnam. Got hurt in Vietnam. I wouldn’t even tell my momma and them that I was going. That’s how stubborn I was.

W:   What was your job?



	M:	My job was in the kitchen. The kitchen helper, that’s what they called me during that time.

	W:	But you still had to go through the combat training, and know how to shoot and all that as a solider?

	M:	Yes, sir. Real soldier. And still don’t know what I was fighting for. You know? But I realize now that they say that the United States was free, but I know that we wasn’t. In Vietnam, I experienced one of the worst things in the world. I tell peoples about it, that we was—me and a friend was walking down to Saigon.

	W:	What was his name?



	M:	His name was James Jackson, and he was from—I think it was Philadelphia, at this time. And the lady walked up to him and gave him the baby, and had a grenade in it. And pulled it and blowed all them up and knocked me out. So, when I woke up, I was on my way back home in Germany. I never did get a chance to explain that to my children ‘til, you know. Because all those memories come back to you, because every time they send you out in the field to kill somebody, and the way that they was doing body counts that you cut somebody’ part of the body off and bring it back. Ears, nose, any part. And that was the most scariest part about the whole thing. I came back and went back to New Orleans, and stayed about two months.L there, went to New York. Maybe I was just





searching. My momma was still living; she was still living in Perry. When I came back from New York, came back to Perry and started driving the bus for the junior college—North Florida Junior College. I was the first driver to drive from Perry, pick up the students from Greenville and Madison—the outskirts of it—and carry them on into Madison in the afternoon. We would stay at Suwannee River Junior College, that was the name of it. That before they changed it. Now the White had it already, that they had the North Florida Junior College. But we was Suwannee River Junior College, and they had teachers in the nighttime, on account that they had school in the daytime. So we had nighttime school.

	W:	So, it was the same location, but they just called it one thing for the White students in the daytime, had a different name for the Black students at night.

	M:	Yeah.



	W:	Did you also get your degree?



	M:	No, I didn’t get a degree, because transferring from a university down to a junior college—did you know you didn’t get credit for it?

	W:	Really?



	M:	You didn’t get credit for it. So I went two years—well, one and a half year. I didn’t get a degree. But I was majoring in Biology, I was going major in Biology. So I had a good background from it. And I got a job at Buckeye and that was concerning of chemicals. Chemistry.

	W:	What is the name of that company?



	M:	Buckeye [inaudible 14:53]. Y’all got some studies out there now. And I started out there—and you know, they still had the segregation going on, even out there.





	W:	At the plant?



	M:	Yeah, at the plant. W:	What year was that?

	M:	That was in 1961, [19]62. And so, really, it was that you tell the children now that, they don’t even know that they had White and Colored bathrooms. They had a cafeteria there. The Blacks only ate in the bathroom or on the sawmill floor. But they had a bull game, what they called it, “bull gang,” you did the hard work. And then they’d make it sound so good about the job that they had to offer, because they had the log manager. And you know what a manager is. Okay? And I thought I was getting me a good job. And I was pulling those logs off the sorter and scraping the bark off. Yeah, okay, I figured I’d get me another job. This one was one where I thought I was going up the ladder. But at this time, we could only get so high. We couldn’t get an upper job. Sometime, it really hurts you to think about the things that you went through. And then, now, you thank God for making you come through that. At this particular time, we had—they wouldn’t hire you if they knowed you had finished school. They wouldn’t hire you.

W: Why was that? M: Why was that? W:  Yes.

	M:	You know in the old days, if they thought the Blacks learned how to read and write, they would kill them? Okay. So that there still going on, but it was in a different way. It was a lot different; if you change things around, you going always have a different name of a different phase of it. So, this is what I experienced in





the lifetime. You know, I worked at Buckeye. They changed the name two or three times since I was doing that. And you know how the big companies do, they change names, but they still doing it the same.

W:   What’s the name of that company now?



	M:	Buckeye, but they changed to Buckeye-Foley, then they sold to Proctor and Gamble, which still the same. They had different mills all over the world. And I think now, it’s Buckeye Sawyer. I think that’s the name of it now: Buckeye Sawyer. Because they had Buckeye now one time, so. And that been from out there to [19]94, so, now, I—you know.

	W:	Is that when you retired? M:	I retired in [19]94.

	W:	What have you been doing in your time since you retired?



	M:	Oh, at the time I was working at Buckeye, I had three jobs. I was a concrete finisher, I had my own business, and I had a janitorial service, which they it gave it to me out to Buckeye. And then I worked at Buckeye. But I had peoples doing the work. And I was just signing—you know. So, I stayed in business for a long time. I did a lot of building around here. Because I didn’t want my kids to say that they had to stay out of school nary a day and go to work. And I had seven kids. Me and my first wife had seven kids.

	W:	What was your first wife’s name?



	M:	Sidney James Tolliver. But name Sidney James Miller. W:	And where was she from?

	M:	She was from Perry, but she was from Foley, out that way.





	W:	Turn left instead of turn right. [Laughter] And what are your children’s names? M:	My oldest son’s name is Darren Anthony Miller. He spent—he still in Germany.

He married and have three kids, but he got out the Army, and he been in business for himself. And he transporting stuff back to the United States. Now, my second son, he live in Tallahassee. He got messed up in Germany, so he on a hundred and ten percent disability. My youngest son still here.

	W:	What are their names, your second and third sons?



	M:	Oh. His name Gerald Miller, and my youngest son’ name Vincent Miller. Vincent Anthony Miller. And he worked for Foodcon, which is a contractor from Buckeye. My oldest daughter named Velma, she also worked at Buckeye. And she a coordinator now. So, I don’t know what position that she—where she work at now, but no more than to finishing where she—I know she was trained to be a coordinator, and she still have that title. My other daughter’ name Debra Ann.

She was living in North Carolina, so she will come back for the reunion, and I’ll get the chance to see her sometime today. And she don’t have any kids. My next daughter was Donna, and she work for the state. She been working for the state for about seven years, and she have three kids.

	W:	So, how many total grandchildren do you have? M:	Nine. No, ten!

	W:	So you and your first wife, you parted ways?



	M:	Yeah, we divorced at the time because—I’m going tell you just like I have to tell everybody else: see, she wanted to live right, and I wanted to live wrong. [Laughter] I can’t put it on her, because she was a great wife. And I liked a lot of





women. So. And we was in Pentecostal Holiness, and I wasn’t allowed to smoke. None of us wasn’t allowed to smoke. I drank in Pentecostal Holiness. But she stayed in it, and I got out because I wanted to drink and smoke.

	W:	So you’re remarried now?



	M:	Yeah. I remarried twice. Let me see. The next wife was, her name was Celia Fishburne.

	W:	Any children?



	M:	Nah, we didn’t have any kids. She had one. When I brought her here, she decided that she wanted to move on to be with somebody else. And then we remarried. Again, I say, “Now, wait a minute, now. We married the first time and it was alcohol-related.” Now, the first time I married it wasn’t. Next time, I say, “I’m going get married”—now, I promised a lot of times that I was going get married, but I never did, because I wasn’t intend to. So, she talked me into it, and so I married her. Then I remarried her.

	W:	It still didn’t take?



	M:	No! I had a lot of money. And she thought she was going get half of it. But I seen, when she start acting funny, I started moving my money. And we had bought a home, had about 4400 square feet [inaudible 24:31]. I had everything I wanted to. So when we went to court, they gave her the house, and wanted to give her the property, but I had never got it in my name. So, that’s the way I kept it. And then I married another girl, and we stayed together three months, because she called the law on me. I was sixty-two years old, and that was the first time I ever





had handcuffs on me. “As long as I ever get out of this, I’m done!” [Laughter] So finally, we just quit.

	W:	What was her name?



	M:	Her name was Barbara. Barbara Bryant. And she lived next door to me, when I was rebuilding my house. And we stayed separated—I mean, I divorced her right after then, because after she had me put in jail, I knew it wasn’t going be no more of that. So, went back some years; and that’s my wife just walked by. We been married going on five years.

	W:	And what’s her name?



	M:	Her name Viola Bellamy Miller. W:	And how did you meet?

	M:	She liveded three blocks from me, behind the house, and when I would leave church I never did go nowhere but go to the house, go to the store, come back. And went by there one day, and I was talking to her, and I say—I knowed her about thirty-something years ago, now. Thirty-something years ago I met her! And she told me, “No, I’m not interested in you.” Well, at this time I was cranking that oil, so [inaudible 26:44] sound real good. I started building this house right here on Sanders Street where I’m living now, and she passed by, and I told her, I say, “Well, I’m building this house for you.” Just joking. For real. And we went around there, and start—and I asked, could I take her out? She said “Yeah.” Say, “I only go to church, I don’t go noplace.” I said “Well, I go to church. And I’ll go to your church on second and fourth, you go with me on first and third.” Because New Brooklyn, they got four Sundays. So, we started doing that, started driving





and talking, and we started—“Look here: I’m not going live with no man without no marriage. We not going sleep together unless we married.” See now, this stuff I don’t like. [Laughter] You know, because I’m from the old school, and want to test everything before you got married. I’m sorry I bring it this way, but it is the truth. So we got married, February 9, 2000. And that was a record in Perry. That was history, because where I got married to her at, my first girlfriend was right across the street on Hampton Springs. And I was the oldest man in Perry that got married in 2008, and we still together. Really, I enjoyed it. Now, we go to church. I work at McDonald’s, in the morning, from five to one. I leave there and go home and sleep about two or three hours, then I go to Wal-Mart. She worked the last.

She been out it twenty-five years. So, what we only do now is just work, go home, go to church, and go out of town sometimes, and keep the grands.

	W:	This is the life that’s working for you now?



	M:	This is the life that’s working for me, it’s a great life.



	W:	I’d like to take you back to some of your memories of Jerkins High School: who were your favorite teachers?

	M:	Corey Turner was my favorite teacher. Myrtle Williams was good. We had good teachers at this time. But being young as we was, they mistreated them too.

Corey Turner was the type of coach that, he taught us biology, and when you left his class, you knowed something. He taught us about military life, and he was more of a father to us.

	W:	What sports did you like the best?



	M:	I likeded football, because that’s what I had—I made All-Conference two years.





	W:	What position?



	M:	I played guard, center, and full. I played three positions. W:	Who was your most significant rival?

	M:	Believe it or not, the one that we had was—we had Monticello, Madison, and we played Alachua. I don’t think you remember Huey Dixon.

	W:	No, sir.



	M:	He was from Gainesville. He went on to play pro, because he went to Indiana. We was co-champs three years, and champs one year, but I forgot what year it was. But I can look in the yearbook and tell you, but I don’t—.

	W:	So Alachua was Mebane. What were the names of the other two schools? M:	Howard. In Monticello, it was Howard.

	W:	Howard.



	M:	Uh-huh, high school. I mean, and then Monticello, I believe it was—I don’t remember they name now. In Madison, [inaudible 31:36] high school.

	W:	Who was your principal?



	M:	We had Mr. Howard Warren.



	W:	And what are your memories of Mr. Warren? M:	Mr. Warren gave me my first whooping.

	W:	[Laughter] Well, what’d you do to earn that?



	M:	Well, me and one of my friends, we said that if he hit you first, we going jump him. And you got the time when they had paddling in school. We decided we was going put tacks in Mr. Fall’ seat. That was Mr. Fall, he was teaching us history.

	W:	History teacher.





	M:	Yeah, and we was going to his class. And we put some tacks in his seat, and he sent us to the principal. And so, we was going jump the principal. And Mr.

Warren, he started with the belt, but then later on, he started with the—! [Laughter] But anyway, it came down to it, but it taught me a lesson that your friend that say that they going help you? Don’t look for it.

	W:	You ended up fighting the principal yourself?



	M:	I didn’t fight him much, he was doing the fighting, and I was doing the dodging!



	But my friend the one that runned out! [Laughter] W:	What was his name?

	M:	His name was Henry Jerry Smith. W:	He left you hanging.

	M:	He left me hanging. And then I wanted to get him. So, we wind up having it, but then after then, Mr. Warren, he punished us and all that, but he turned out to be a real good principal for me. But he had to teach me a lesson.

	W:	What is your favorite memory of high school, as you think back on it? M:	Me and a guy named Junior Baylock had the same girlfriend.

	W:	What was her name?



	M:	Aggie Mae Washington. She went to college in South Carolina. He went to Texas and I went to Dillard. Didn’t neither one of us get her. But we [inaudible 34:04]. It turned out we came to be best friends. [Laughter] He got to be principal in Suwannee. He was principal.

	W:	Of the junior college?



	M:	No. Unh-uh, high school!





	W:	Jerkins?



	M:	Yeah, and superintendent of both. So we went in business over here. We went into business together, built a funeral home over here. Right across the road. And he one of my best buddies. We still get together and talk about it, but we love each other. It’s good experiences.

	W:	Where’d you go to elementary school? The first place you went to school?



	M:	Here in Perry, we were going to these churches. We didn’t have a school. The Ku Klux Klan burnt down the school here, the first time.

	W:	How do you know it was the Klan?



	M:	Because they said they were. They had the suits on. They didn’t hide it during that time! [Laughter]

	W:	So it was clear? M:	Yeah. It was clear.

	W:	Did either of those schools had those names, or they were just named after the churches that they were held at?

	M:	Yeah, we had one which—we had one at Reverend Diggs’ Baptist Church, I done forgot the name of it

	W:	Reverend Diggs?



	M:	Yeah, he was the pastor there. We had one at elementary, at Miss Mae Lizzie; that was a rooming or boarding house, or whatever, during that time.

	W:	Miss Mae Lizzie’s house?



	M:	Yeah. And Horace McLeod’ daddy’s momma. I don’t remember too much about it. But anyway, we had to go to school there, and then we had the halls, which





was one of Jerkins schools, and it was condemned. But then they turned it into a Masonic hall. They went to school there. But before they started building this school here in 1953.

	W:	How about middle school? Or was that Jerkins? M:	That was combined.

	W:	Jerkins, all the—



	M:	All of it’s combined. We didn’t have no division any, at all.



	W:	When you went through that era, from segregation to seeing integrated public schools later on, do you think the schools are better? Worse? Something’s been lost? What are your thoughts on going through what it was to how it is now?

	M:	My thoughts is this: they got a better opportunity, but the teaching is very different. Because you have a lower and a higher integration, segregation, and it’s still going on. At one time, you never said you have a slow learner, and put him in the slow learner’s class. And now, if you don’t go to school, if they don’t like you, they’ll send to military school. Ninety percent of the students do not graduate. Many graduate from the vo-tech down here.

	W:	Is that different from when you went to school?



	M:	Yeah, very different. When we was in school, we had to get our lesson, and we wasn’t getting suspended. You don’t learn nothing when you suspended. And once you suspended, you got a whooping to the school, and your momma done whooped you. So, it was different. But now they get suspended, they don’t do nothing to them but just say, “Well, we can’t handle this, so we’ll put you out of





school.” I know a case right now, a ten year old boy school is expelled. He ten years old and he can’t go to school in Perry right now.

	W:	That doesn’t leave a very bright future for him, does it?



	M:	None, whatsoever. Whatever you had to do. And right now I said that integration hurt the students in Perry for a long time.

	W:	How did it do so?



	M:	Because the quality of teaching they didn’t get—the teacher cared about you at Jerkins. And you had [inaudible 38:51]. Now, all my children, they went from Taylor County High. Every one of them. Now my grands, they had to get they lesson too. Because me and my wife both made sure that they get they lesson.

	W:	Are you concerned about the kids going to school now?



	M:	Very. Very concerned. When went down to McDonalds, and I told the kids this, and I said now, “If every one of y’all finish school, I’m going give you some money.” I wasn’t married, so I was just making money, and just I’d give it to them. So I say to my daughter, so when they graduated, I gave them the money. And they thought I was joking. Because I believe in education. I know how hard it was for me, and I know how hard it is now. If you don’t get a education, you ain’t going get no job. Even with an education, it’s hard. They growing. They growing, but it’s growing slow. And I still think that we still behind by fifty or sixty years.

That’s my thought.



	W:	What are your thoughts about President Obama? What kind of job has he done, and do you think that he can get re-elected?





	M:	I want him to. And just like when people don’t want you to do something—I think he very cool. He very cool. Under pressure, he cool. Even the things—I don’t think I never heard people talk about a president as bad as they talk about him. They don’t give him credit for nothing. Me and my wife both say, I don’t care what kind of president you have; if either one of them don’t got God in them, so they can’t have no control. And that been proven. And I hope he get back in, but I only hope if the next president get in, have God in him, not just going to get the job.

I’m going vote for him. I only voted for Democrats, I never voted Republican. And that ain’t no secret! [Laughter] They know it everywhere! I don’t mean to be, you know, but I am direct. I’m very outspoken. And everybody know me, know I speak like this all the time. I just had a pacemaker put in about—going on about three weeks, now.

	W:	How are you feeling?



	M:	I’m feeling great! Except, you know, when you can’t do nothing, and you used to doing things on your own. And see now, it just [inaudible 42:14]. But the twenty- seventh, I can go ahead and lift it up, because it will be done healed up enough and everything. But I think it helped me a whole lots now. I feel a lots better and everything.

	W:	Do you have a regular routine of things to stay busy besides just the work? I mean, that’s busy too.

	M:	That’s why come I stay busy. See, when my wife get up and she go to work, and if I’m staying home, she’ll tell me, “Do such and such thing. Why come you ain’t did this, why you ain’t”—. Well, I say if I’m going work, I’m going get paid for it.





[Laughter] So, I got me a second job. She don’t want me to work, but I enjoy working, because I am a people person. I love peoples. And what I’m doing at McDonald’s and Wal-mart is, I meet everybody that come in, and I love talking to them.

	W:	What do you hope comes out of these Jerkins reunions? There was one with five hundred people, then two hundred people, and now there’s a good number of people here. How long do you hope to see those continue, and what comes out of these?

	M:	I don’t think it’s going continue, from what I hear now. There’s so many people want something for nothing. The girl that did the planning on this here, they worked real hard. I did in the first one, but the rest of them I haven’t. Now, I love all my classmates. I don’t have a lot of sense they’ll be back here. I hope that what come out Jerkins, from 1932 to 1970 when they closed Jerkins down, and I think because when we was at Jerkins, we had more people to come out as lawyers and doctors. My brother had a doctorate degree in law. And my granddaughter—I mean, my niece—she was in Jersey and Virginia, but she come back down now. Her name Sandy Robinson. My brother was named Charles Anderson. He graduated from A&M and Columbia University. And where he got his doctorate degree, from Columbia University. So, I really had a good life. And what we need now is teachers that teach the children. But it’s a disadvantage, because children having children, so it’s a hardship. Now our grandson, last year, one of the best running backs in the state of Florida.

	W:	What’s his name?





	M:	Tony Jackson.



	W:	Here in Taylor County?



	M:	Yeah. It was seven of them had scholarships. He had a scholarship at Western Illinois, but he didn’t take the right courses at Taylor County High. Same thing I was trying, saying this: that they need guidance. They need to tell you what you going do. In Division I school, you going have to be smart. You going have to get your—. And the University of Florida wasn’t interested in him because they got the best running backs—well all the good athletes go to Florida, just about. I’m not bragging, but they are. Y’all from Gainesville?

	W:	Yes, sir.



	M:	Okay. And to cut you short. I am a Seminole fan. [Laughter] I love the Seminoles. I hope we will get him a job and go to school. We trying to help him. Me and my wife both have sixteen grands together. We try to give them all that they can get. Every time one of them make it on the road, we give them fifty to a hundred dollars, and they keeping us broke now. [Laughter] Because every time I look around—. [Laughter] And if I could keep the pictures and everything? My granddaughter and her granddaughter the same age. They go to the same school. They both A/B honor roll, honor society. Both of the girls are, now. The boys ain’t. Now, my grandson in Ohio, he still on honor roll. These around here, I don’t think so. Do too much recreation.

	W:	Mr. James D. Miller, on the behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, I’d like to thank you for contributing at this time, and sharing your memories about Jerkins High School. It’s been a great pleasure. I’d like to close the





interview with that final thanks, and also to offer you final privilege to make any comment that you’d like to make about something in the interview; something we covered, something we didn’t cover, whatever it will be. This will be the last time I speak, and when you finish with whatever your comments are, that will conclude this interview with our thanks.

	M:	Okay. I enjoyed the interview with y’all. Y’all been very honest with me, and y’all are professionals. [Laughter] And I’m glad to give this interview, and I was truthful about it. I didn’t give no flack, and I really enjoyed it. So, thank y’all.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Aldreka Everett, October 12, 2012 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, March 20, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019