AAHP 033; McMeekin; Page 100





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 033 Jeff McMeekin

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Anna Brodrecht and Memree Stewart on June 1, 2010 2 hours, 56 minutes | 105 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Jeff McMeekin, a White man from Hawthorne, describes his family’s history in the citrus industry and being driven by the “big freeze” to resettle in Alachua County. He recounts some of the history of Hawthorne, Grove Park, and other settlements in southern Alachua County, especially regarding the turpentine industry, kaolin mining, and other industries in the area. He ruminates from a White perspective on the Civil Rights Movement, and the implementation and legacy of integration, and his narrative is intertwined with a good deal of family history.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Turpentine; Citrus]



















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 033

Interviewee: Jeff McMeekin

Interviewer: Anna Brodrecht, Mallory Stewart Date: June 1, 2010



B:  We’ll go ahead and introduce ourselves. My name is Anna Brodrecht, and I’m with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program from the University of Florida. The date is June 1st, and we are interviewing Jeff McMeekin.

S:  My name is Mallory Stewart and I’m with the Alachua County Library District, Hawthorne Branch. You have to introduce yourself.

M:  Okay, my name is Jeff McMeekin. I live in Hawthorne, and my address is SE 71st Avenue.

	B:	[Laughter] We’ll get all that information in a minute. Do you mind to start out with just some biographical information? Mr. McMeekin, how do you spell your last name?

	M:	M-C-M-double E-K-I N.



	B:	And Jeff is just J-E-F-F. M:	Right.

	B:	Do you have a middle name? M:	That is the middle name.

	B:	Yeah? What’s your first name?



	M:	Nobody knows me by my first name. B:	Then what’s your first name?

	M:	Ellington.



	B:	Ooh. How do you spell that? M:	E-L-L-I-N-G-T-O-N.





	B:	Wow. Is that an old last name that became your first name? Whose last name was that?

	M:	Probably about three great-grandmothers.



	B:	Oh. Would that great grandmother have lived in Hawthorne? M:	Nope, lived in Tallahassee.

	B:	In Tallahassee, okay. Is that your mom’s side that came from Tallahassee? Your dad’s side?

	M:	That was my daddy’s side, from Tallahassee. B:	Okay, then what about your mother’s side?

	M:	My mother’s side was Capell.



	B:	Okay. And do you know where they were from?



	M:	They was from here. Originally, they moved here in the early—well before the Civil War.

	B:	Wow. Do you know why they moved here? M:	No.

	B:	No? Your dad’s side of the family, you don’t know why they moved from Tallahassee to Alachua County?

	M:	Well, no. My daddy’s side, the McMeekin side, moved from Carolina. In prospect—you want me to tell you the real reason he moved?

	B:	Absolutely.



	M:	Florida’s White folks, they agreed to meet his wife. But anyway, he migrated from Union County, Fairfield County, South Carolina and moved to the village and established the town of McMeekin in about 1855.





	B:	Where is McMeekin, the town?



	M:	Five miles due east of here. Putnam County.



	B:	Oh okay. Okay. Cool. You said you can’t remember your home address right now, but we’ll get back to that later. But when were you born?

	M:	November 27, 1927.



	B:	And were you born here?



	M:	I was born in McMeekin. [Laughter] B:	How big is the town of McMeekin?

	M:	Well, if the big freeze hadn’t’ve came on in 1918, [18]98, and [18]99, it would probably have been a pretty good sized town. But when the big freeze, it was established to grow orange trees and long staple cotton. And at one time, now that the big freeze, my granddaddy was the largest single owner of orange groves in the state of Florida. All of those blackjacks in West Putnam County was orange groves and long staple cotton until after the Big Freeze. From then it went backwards.

	B:	But your family stayed there? M:	Yup, my family stayed there.

	B:	Did they continue trying to grow oranges and cotton after the freeze?



M:  They tried to put it back together, but my granddad died of pneumonia trying to bring his orange groves back. And eventually they did bring some of the groves back until 1962. The freeze of 1962 completely wiped it out.

B:   So around here freezes are a big deal?





	M:	Yeah, that’s when they moved the Orange belt to Tampa and Orlando. And at one time, my granddaddy gave the Florida Southern railroad the right-of-way through McMeekin, which was 120 foot right-of-way. At that time, he had to maintain a depot and a side track. In that deed, if they ever cease to operate, the land went back to the McMeekin family

	B:	So did they ever cease to operate?



	M:	Yeah. Until, I don’t remember the year. Was about 1951 or [19]52. B:	So you remember that, you were alive for that.

	M:	Oh yeah. Daddy would not let them tear that old depot down when it ceased to be used. Because in that deed if they tore it down and moved the side track that property went back to the McMeekin family. When they tore it down, my brother went down and got the McMeekin sign and carried it to the house. But one day—this was in the fifties—the railroad detective come to daddy and climbed all over him because we had stolen railroad property. Daddy looked at him and he told him, “Well, I’ll tell you how it is. You either forget about it or you build the depot back and put the side track in or I want the property back.” Still haven’t heard another word from him. The sign is still attached somewhere up there. [Laughter]

	S:	That’s awesome.



	B:	Is that property still technically railroad property or did you guys ever pursue getting the deed?

	M:	No, we didn’t pursue it. After that he left it alone. B:	So who knows who it belongs to?





	M:	Well really the property belongs to the railroad. But, if they tore that depot down or didn’t maintain that depot, then it went back to the McMeekin estate.

	B:	So what all was the depot used for over the years?



	M:	To start, it was built back in the early 1890s. It was used for freight coming in and out of McMeekin mainly for the orange groves. My granddaddy was the only depot agent, because after the big freeze there were no more oranges. So he was the only agent, and after that it was used for the—what do you call these people walking down the road?

	S:	Vagabonds? I don’t know.



	B:	Oh, okay. It’s called a homeless shelter of sorts. Okay. So it was never occupied after that.

	M:	After that, no. It was never occupied after that.



	B:	So why did your family care so much about the building staying there?



	M:	Because daddy’s mother worshipped that building and when she died—I think she died in [19]58—and when she died then he let them tear the depot down. Because she used to go down and sit on there after she was completely senile. Just sit on the steps.

	B:	What was important about it for her? Do you think it was a symbol of progress in her life or what did you think it meant to her?

	M:	I don’t know. Except her husband was the one that made it. B:	Right. Do you want to ask some questions?

	S:	Do you remember anything about the Morrison’s mill?





	M:	Alright, Morrison’s mill, I don’t have these dates in the dock of my mind. But the Morrison’s mill was probably built, I’m going to say late 1800s. Probably was built before that even. Because the charter for the Masonic Lodge was held out there, and it was turned in in 1878. So Morrison’s mill was probably built somewhere around the Civil War time. The Masonic Lodge was established in Hawthorne, and it was called the Orange Creek Lodge. And exactly where that Lodge met, I don’t know. But Orange Creek is up there north where the Orange Creek Methodist Church is at. From there it moved to Earleton, from there it came back to Lake Winnott, Lake Winnott Prairie. From there, it came to the Morrison’s Mill. And my great-grandfather worked for the magistrate, and he turned in the charter in 1878 due to nonparticipation. And then it reopened in Hawthorne in 1889. He died August of 1889. He died August 5, 1889. This Lodge put on the first Masonic funeral for his death. He’s buried in the Octo Wills Cemetery.

	B:	What did a Masonic lodge mean back then? Could you tell us what a Masonic lodge is?

	M:	A Masonic lodge is supposedly made up of the God-fearing men in town. Honest men—however some get in that’s not—and it’s made up mainly of the elite, supposed to be the elite or the better people. Not all of them going to belong to it. That’s mainly what a Masonic lodge is made up of. The Masonic lodge was started back in the King Solomon time. They designated and paid by the different workmens of the building of King Solomon’s temple. There is no written record of that. It is all passed down orally. From that, the Knights Templar was organized, and that was the first big Christianity army, as I understand it, in the world. They





were very successful in their battles until Caesar. France took over and he defeated them, and then they went underground for I don’t know how many years. But they resurfaced in Scotland. There’s written record of the Knights Templar in about ten hundred, but the first Masonic lodge records was in the 1300s.

	B:	Wow. So what does that mean to a Southern man who starts a Masonic lodge in Hawthorne, Florida?

	M:	Well, you got me there. [Laughter]



	B:	I mean it’s a long history, and I think a noble history. The fact that was passed down. It’s interesting that it comes from Europe.

	M:	It’s passed down from the building of King Solomon’s Temple actually. And they’re supposed to be, like I said, God fearing men. It’s not religious. It is not a type of religious, because almost any man, as long as he believes in the Lord Jesus Christ our God as his savior, can become a member.

	B:	Do Masonic people help each other? Did they help raise money for different events?

	M:	Mainly they help each other. The Masonic Home in St. Petersburg is mainly for old folks or assisted living. They try to help each other when they get in trouble financially, morally, however and whatever it takes. One of the big things that they do as far as charity is the big Stentz Laboratory in New York, which is financed worldwide.

	B:	Wow. So it’s across the United States, the Masonic? M:	It’s across the whole world.





	B:	Oh, okay. Even to this day.



	M:	Yep, even to this day. And in order to become a Shriner, you’ve got to be a Master Mason. The Shrine is the biggest charitable organization in the United States. We maintain twenty-two cripple children hospitals throughout the United States.

	B:	So that is a reason for a Southern man to want to join is because it’s—



	M:	A child born that’s crippled or gets severely burned can go to a Shriner’s hospital at no cost. Costs them nothing to go. It’s free of charge.

	B:	The Masonic Lodge at the Mill was closed. M:	It was closed.

	B:	Because of lack of membership. M:	Lack of membership.

	B:	That was your great-grandfather? M:	That was my great-grandfather.

	B:	Did you ever meet him? Did he tell you this story?



	M:	No, no. He was gone before I got here. He died in 1889, but I didn’t get here until [19]27.

	S:	Do you remember Morrison’s Mill actually working?



	M:	No, not really. When I knew it, it was Dansby. I guess Dansby, Mr. Dansby, had bought the mill. Okay, I’m bringing some more into that mill. Somewhere about [19]32 or [19]33, Morrison’s Mill, which was water-powered, began to go backwards. My granddaddy, Frank Capell built a grist mill over here where Miller’s Electric is at. He owned all of that land at Miller’s Electric. He had a little





grocery store. He built a grist mill that was powered by a big gasoline engine. He grounded corn in the mill into grits for the various farmers. They paid him to grind it with a toll. I don’t remember what the toll was. But they paid with a toll. And he would grind his own grits and meal and put ‘em in his grocery store and that’s how he made his money, from a grist mill.

	B:	What is a toll?



M:  They take out so much, say you bring in a hundred pounds of corn to be ground, they take out ten pounds. That’s what you pay ‘em for, grinding your other ninety pounds.

S:   And he had a grocery store?



	M:	Yeah. He had a small grocery store. S:	In Hawthorne?

	M:	Yup. Right there where Miller’s Electric is at. He owned all of that land. In fact, the land that Highway 20 from the west side of the tracks, almost to where Florida Septic’s road is, he donated that land to the highway. And that big clay pit, he donated that clay pit to the state to build the overpass.

	B:	Why didn’t he sell it to the state? M:	You didn’t know Frank Capell.

	B:	Introduce us. [Laughter]



	M:	He was a very religious man. He was a strict man. Whatever he told you, you could depend on it. He didn’t need to sign a paper, and he didn’t forget it. He was a member of the school board trustees, when they had trustees. He was a member of the city council at that time. Later on, he ran the ice plant here in





Hawthorne, which was owned at one time by Florida Power and Light. You know the story on that. When he ran the clay mine, George C. Crosby came to this area to prospect for clay [inaudible 17:32]. He boarded with my grandmother.

That was Louisa B. Velma. Originally was Louisa B. McMeekin, but she later married a Velma. My daddy had sailed the high seas for twelve years. In fact, he was chief engineer. She talked Crosby into hiring him to come back to build that clay mine in 1924. And Florida Power was coming from Palatka to Hawthorne.

And if you go on Highway 20 just past Cowpen Lake, you see where that high power line takes a right angle turn. They wanted to get the power for that clay mine. The clay mine was used in Delpro Plants. They wanted to get electricity for that clay mine. So they turned a right angle, went to the clay mine, put a substation to get to that mine. We live a mile and a half up the dirt road, so in doing the deal, daddy says, “Well, I want power at my house too.” So when you come on up the road you find another power line, turns the right angles, goes up the hill. We got power during that deal before Hawthorne did.

	B:	Wow.



	M:	And that’s how it come in on the old road instead of on Highway 20. B:	And what year did you say that was?

	M:	That was probably around [19]25. B:	So it was just before you were born. M:	1925. Yeah.

	B:	Okay, so you grew up your whole life with power?





	M:	Cause he and my mother married in September of 1925. At that time, Papa Frank owned that ice plant, and the machinery was falling apart. He didn’t have the money to rebuild it. So in the deal, he talked Florida Power into buying the ice plant. And Papa Frank ran that ice plant until he retired. That got him off the hook of rebuilding it. Later in years, Florida Power sold it to City Ice and Fuel, which is a cold storage plant. Going on back into that ice plant, Hawthorne back in the [19]30s and early [19]40s was considered the Fordhook bean capital of the world. It was about six weeks out of the year, this whole sidetrack was lined coal boxes. Lined with semi-trailers. During bean season, they grew Fordhook, they grew string beans, that was the first crop, then the Fordhooks, that was the big crop. But there was about six weeks of these bean sheds, and at one time it was six bean sheds in Hawthorne. One big one. Guy Lindsey, who owned one of the big bean sheds, is the man that invented the little putt-putt motors on the refrigerated cars, and it made him a rich man. Are you familiar with that, putt- putt?

	B:	No.



	M:	Okay. They took these semi-trailers and on one end of them, they fenced off the steel, and they put blocks of ice in the refrigerator. And they put that little putt-putt up front with a motor on it that blew fan. The fan blew air across that ice and refrigerated the load of beans.

	B:	And so every once in a while they had to stop and put new ice in them?



	M:	And strawberries. Yep. All up and down the road they had to stop and refuel that ice.





	B:	Where does the railroad go? Where were the beans going? M:	New York, Washington, Chicago, Baltimore.

	B:	The whole U.S.? M:	The whole U.S.

	B:	And at that time the West wasn’t very developed, was it? M:	No.

	B:	So there was a lot fewer trains going to the West?



	M:	To the West, true. But now the seaboard line was a main railroad line to Washington and New York.

	B:	And tell about the roads then, because I’ve heard there weren’t that many miles of paved road either. What kind of cars did people—

	M:	Well at that time Hawthorne didn’t have but one paved street, and that was Johnson Street. The one right out here in front of you. And they come across that railroad that made that loop in through Hawthorne and the rest of Hawthorne were dirt and sand. Streets, all of it.

	B:	So what kind of cars could handle the sand and not get stuck? M:	Those are the Chevrolets and Fords.

	B:	Okay. And where did you get gas for the car back then?



	M:	There were several gas stations in Hawthorne. One where the flour shop, that was a gas station. It was an old 1927 standard oil model station. Right there below Ace Hardware, there was another one. That was Rep Rinky’s. That was the old Chevrolet garage here. The Ford garage, that was just across the railroad track on the left-hand side of the south railroad. That was a Ford garage, and it





stayed in operation well up into the, I would say the [19]60s, before it finally closed up as a Ford dealership. That was owned by Glenn Moore, Francis Moore’s daddy.

	B:	Oh okay. Of the hotel?



	M:	Yeah, the hotel. He owned the Ford garage. Francis is the one that finally closed it. Or they took it away from him, I don’t remember which. But it got so small that there just wasn’t anything left. So there was six bean sheds. I remember those.

And we could always get out of school if we’d go worked in the bean shed.



	B:	Did you actually pick beans? M:	Shoot no. But I hold them.

	B:	Who picked the beans?



	M:	Most of ‘em was Colored people. They were the ones that picked most of the beans. I supervised some pickings. [Laughter]

	B:	Would they have been kids as well as adults?



	M:	Mostly adults. It was big business. It wasn’t little. It was big business. It was I don’t know how many thousands of acres of bean. It was between Allen Grove and Orange Heights. It was called Grove Park. There wasn’t too many in McMeekin. That ground was too sandy.

	B:	It was an orange place.



	M:	We grew oranges, yeah. Long staple cotton went out in I think about 1902, when the boll weevils. You still can’t grow cotton. The boll weevil is still here.

	B:	Explain what a boll weevil is, if anybody doesn’t know.





	M:	It’s a bug. It gets into the cotton. It goes in behind the boll of cotton and makes the cotton drop off. It’ll destroy a cotton field.

	B:	And do they stay around for several years or is it just one in flux and then they leave?

	M:	Well they have been around I know for a hundred, because you still can’t grow cotton. That boll weevil will still get into them now.

	S:	They don’t have anything to do for the boll weevil yet? M:	Not that I know of.

	B:	So there’s boll weevils and freezes, what about hurricanes? Was there ever a hurricane that really wiped out or a tornado?

	M:	In 1935, we had a hurricane that came through here. It came through, I believe, Key West. I believe that’s the one that wiped out the railroad to Key West. Come on in through the Gulf, come in at Cedar Key, come through Hawthorne, killed two people. Completely lost the east side of the overhead down. They had to rebuild it.

	B:	Was the mill okay? M:	The what?

	B:	The mill? During the hurricane? Morrison’s Mill?



	M:	As far as I know, it never hurt it. Well it had already closed anyway by then. It shut down somewhere in the early [19]30s completely. But I can remember our house shaking. I wasn’t but eight year old, but I can still remember it shaking.

	B:	Describe that as a five year old. Where were you? Were you sitting in your house?





	M:	See, no. I was curled up in that bed. [Laughter]



	M:	Because it come through that morning about five o’clock in the morning. But it killed—this house out here north of Hawthorne, it blew it down. It blew another one down. And off the friar’s wife caught pneumonia and died three weeks later.

	B:	Were you supposed to go to school that day? I guess if you were five years old, that would be before you got to school, but if you were—

	M:	Before I went to school.



	B:	Okay. Did you have brothers or…?



	M:	I was not in school then. We came to Hawthorne to school. The reason we came to Hawthorne, daddy thought that Hawthorne school was better than Jobson Station School. Doctor Frank was the trustee so we had a little inside help to get there, but mama had to bring us to school and come and get us every day.

	B:	How far of a drive was it? M:	About six miles.

	B:	And you guys had a car?



	M:	Probably four miles by road. Four miles by air and six by road. B:	Did you have a car to get back and forth?

	M:	Yeah.



	B:	So did you have brothers and sisters growing up?



	M:	I had one sister and one brother and then one brother came in late. B:	So you had an older brother and older sister?

	M:	No, I was the oldest.





	B:	Oh, you were the oldest of four total. M:	They are all living.

	B:	Really?



	M:	Sister is living in High Springs. She lost her husband about five years ago to cancer. These experimental doctors convinced him he’d would live three years if he would take all of their treatment. Well, he made it less than twelve months with cancer. You get into loans, it’s over with. And I had one brother that was killed in the Navy.

	B:	Okay, what year?



	M:	If you give me a minute, I’ll figure it out. It was October the 22, 1954. S:	What was your house like at McMeekin, where you grew up?

	M:	You know where I live now? S:	No, I don’t.

	M:	Okay, it was about the same design—it was the Charlie Burke design. It was two bedrooms, big living room, dining room, kitchen, front porch screened in, back porch made to pile wood on it for the fireplace. We all remember that. I don’t remember how big it was. Probably sixteen hundred square feet. Probably two thousand square feet. My house is about the same size. The one I live in now. It was the same type of design.

	B:	Charlie Burke.



	M:	Charlie Burke built a lot of houses along on the wind in the [19]20s. S:	Did you have to chop the wood?





	M:	If daddy darn sure didn’t want to catch up. We’d pile a lot on that back porch either.

	B:	What was your punishment?



	M:	He had other things to do. [Laughter]



	B:	What was your punishment if you didn’t get the wood in?



	M:	Well, I’ll give you a little story about that too. My mother had a peach tree right out beside the path that led up to my grandmother’s house. And all it grew was switches. That’s all that grew. It would grow no peaches. So one day my brother, the one that got killed, and I decided that we’d get rid of that tree. We dug that tree up and threw it into a clay hole. We had a big clay hole behind the house.

One day mother run out to get her a peach tree, and there wasn’t no peach tree, but there was a plum right across the path. So that took care of that. But you know I would do it again. [Laughter]

	S:	You cut down the peach tree.



	M:	I dug it up, you could see the roots. We didn’t go to sleep. [Laughter] B:	What did your mother do for a job?

	M:	She took care of us three young’ns. B:	That is a job.

	M:	And then the fourth one loaded her own. [Laughter]



	B:	So did she cook and do the laundry? There weren’t washing machines, right? M:	No, we had a big old fat Colored lady that worked for us.

	B:	What was her name?





	M:	Cassie. Cassie Monroe was her—well, her first name was Cassie Jenkins. But Cassie Monroe was the one that did our cooking. She cooked the chicken. She cooked the lemon pies. She peeled the grapefruit. She did the laundry by the scrub board. And granny’s cook, the one that took care of her, was Francis Davis. She lived to be up in her nineties. And her family was the reason that some of them was part of the McMeekin slaves when they had slaves before the Civil War. But she took care of us, and whenever she, Francis, she was up in her nineties when she died. She went to the hospital, and I went to see her. And Lord, when I walked in, she almost turned white. She looked at me, she says, “You did come to see your old nigger, didn’t you?” Well that was her attitude. She would tell it like it was.

	B:	Now was there a Colored hospital or was it in the same hospital you would have gone to?

	M:	Same one you went to. It was Alachua General. B:	Here in—no. It would have been in Gainesville. M:	In Gainesville.

	B:	Wow.



	M:	In Gainesville.



	B:	Yeah. So what did your mom do if she had somebody in the house to help her do all the child-minding and the cooking and everything? What did your mom do during the day?

	M:	Well, one of the biggest jobs was taking us back and forth to school.





	S:	And what did you learn about this community during that time when you were going to school?

	M:	The biggest thing was the beans. Was the beans for the bean fields and the stores. At that time, there was a Beck’s Grocery Store. There was the Jimmy Jay Grocery. That is right where Ace Hardware is right now. There was the Bishop’s Grocery Store. There was the Philip’s Grocery Store. All operating in Hawthorne at that time. The schools, going back to the schools, I showed you a picture of the school that was here. Sitting over here on this American roll. Well it belongs to the Baptist Church now. Belonged to the Alachua County School Board. And they built the new school, which is where the present junior high school is at. I think it was built in [19]27. But when then they moved out of that, they moved this present school where to where Shell is at now for the Colored school. Because at that time there was two schools, the Colored school and the White school. We all got along good together. And the sum of the old saying goes, the Black folks and the White folks in Hawthorne fight each other but don’t jump on one, because if you do, you got both of them on you. And that’s been as long as I can remember.

	S:	What did you do for fun when you were in that age? M:	Okay. For fun I fished, and I started hunting.

	B:	Where did you fish?



	M:	And I started, oh, in the lake in front of the house. I hunted. I could sit on the backdoor steps and shoot squirrels. I started hunting when I was about nine years old. I fished at that time. When we came to school, all they had in school





then was basketball. They had basketball. Old clay courts. I didn’t play basketball though. I went out one time and stayed a couple of weeks and quit. The coach yelled at me, and I walked off the court. [Laughter] So independent. During my time, you talked about recreation at school. I come up in [19]41 during the war, we worked. All of us worked. We had to. At school then, they changed from recess to activity period. It was the last period of the day. Those of us that had jobs that we could go to, skipped the activity period and went to work. I went to the clay mine. My job then was I would grease that big drag line. When I got through doing that, I would operate till dark. I started operating the drag line at about seventeen, and some of that equipment that you saw in that book, I’ve done a lot of it. Some of that equipment was here in Florida, some of it was at the mine in Georgia.

	B:	If even the White kids were working, what were the Black kids doing? Were they going to school too?

	M:	They were pulling beans. They were hoeing their fields. Most of them were working too.

	B:	Did they go to school year-round?



	M:	This was a big turpentine area. You are bringing that back up, you are bringing back stuff that I can remember. At that time, there was a big Johnson turpentine. That was still in the South. You would go to the Chevron station and turn left, there was a big turpentine still. And that took in a lot of these Colored folks worked at—virtually all of them worked at that turpentine. Because the Pfeiffer was the big Pfeiffer turpentine still. That was the one H.H. Surtsey run before old





man Pfeiffer. And that was part of the work. The Grove Park people, a lot of them worked at the Pfeiffer Turpentine. And that was thousands of acres until all Owens-Illinois came in and bought all of this land. And when Owens-Illinois first came here, you could buy this woodland for about three cents an acre. And it jumped to forty-five dollars an acre, and boy, folks thought it was really going high. You could buy lakefront property for a couple of thousand dollars. At one time, my granddad owned almost two town sites. A big piece of Cowpen Parlor. All of Four Twin Lakes. A fourth of McMeekin Lake, what they call McMeekin Lake. Lake Louisville, he owned all of it. And lord if we’d have just kept it, I would have been worth billions now. [Laughter]

	B:	Right. Do you know what happened? How did it get sold over the years?



	M:	They sold it, piece by piece. Then one died, and the other one got it. It wound up in one big lawsuit. From there, it just vanished.

	B:	Little by little over the years. M:	Yeah.

	B:	Tell us more about you growing up in the Depression era. You were born in [19]27, the stock market crashed in [19]29, you grew up. You were a child.

	M:	I grew up watching the WPA.



	B:	What kind of things did they do in Hawthorne and around here?



	M:	I don’t know what they did in Hawthorne. Well, they built the city hall. The city hall burned in—I think it was [19]35. I’m pretty sure. I was in the third grade. I remember that.

	B:	Was it arson?





	M:	It was ninth grade. I don’t remember. The whole town liked the burn at that time.



Billy Carlton can remember a lot about that, because he and I was in the same grade together. When city hall burned, we had a northeasterly, and it was blowing sparks all the way across the southwest part of town. And I can remember the high school boys getting on top of the roofs of all of these houses with a garden hose to keep them from burning. The fire department at that time was a big two-wheel thing of a tank about that big around, and you pulled it by engine. It was rebuilt by the WPA. At that time, Hawthorne—I think it was Hawthorne that owned that land—gave the two lots where the city hall is at one- fourth to the city of Hawthorne, one-fourth to Odd Fellows, one-fourth to the Knights of Pythias, and one-fourth to the Masonic Lodge. And I don’t remember which one. I got the record of it though. Either the Knights of Pythias folded first, and they gave all of their portion to the city. When the Odd Fellows folded, they gave half of their fourth to the city, and the other half to the Masonic Lodge. That is how it comes in that the lodge owns thirty-seven and half percent and the city owns sixty-two and half percent.

	B:	And that is to this day? That is still the way that is?



	M:	Yeah, that is to this day. Right. I got deeds, you keep reading, but I got them. S:	Well growing up in the Depression, did you have enough to eat?

	M:	We did. Daddy was superintendent of that clay mine. In fact, he was building it. I can show you one of his pictures out on that little New York, go to have a cap size. [Laughter]

	S:	That’s cold.





	M:	Anyway, we did, but I can remember wages was about ten cents an hour. A dollar a day. And there were ten to twelve hours a day. I can remember that at the clay mine.

	B:	And that was White guys or Black guys? M:	Both.

	B:	No women though. M:	No.

	B:	Women didn’t work in—



	M:	Women didn’t work period then. Because they raised their young’ns. When the WPA built that road from Melrose, it was headed all the way to Johnson Station. Well, it did go to Johnson Station, but it was all clay. Daddy gave them the clay to build that road, and the WPA spreaded it, all by hand. I can remember watching them when I was little. And you had the CC camps. Do you know what the CC camps were?

	B:	I don’t.



	M:	Okay, the CC camps… B:	What does CC mean? M:	I don’t know.

	S:	Conservation Corps.



	M:	That’s right. That’s right. Conservation Corps. But they set these CC camps up, there was one set up in Ocala National Forest. All of those roads was built by CCCs. In order to become a CCC member, you had to join a CC. And I forget how much they paid them a month. I am trying to say twenty-five dollars a month.





But they had to send two-thirds of that money home. The boys couldn’t keep it. They fed them and housed them. I had two uncles that went into CCs. One went to one of the camps in Ocala Forest, and the other went to this craftsman shop in Bernardino. At that old—what is that old fort’s name? I shouldn’t have asked. [Laughter]

	S:	I can’t remember.



	M:	But anyway, he took up woodwork. Woodwork at the old fort.



	B:	So what is the difference between the CC and the WPA? Were they connected in any way?

	M:	No. The WPA, they lived at home, and they paid them probably a dollar a day.



They lived at home, they fed their families, there was no restrictions. It was like a job that the government was the superintendent. The government paid them. The CCs was set up and in order to belong to it, to join it, you had to send so much money back home.

	B:	So the CC was a local thing, whereas the WPA was a national.



	M:	The CC was national. It was national. Nearly all of your big parks in the West was built and performed and started during the CCC time. It was Yosemite, Yellowstone. All of them had the CCC.

	B:	So it had to have been a federal agency.



	M:	It was a federal agency. Roosevelt brought us I guess out of starvation. With the WPA and CCCs.

	B:	Yeah, my generation always hears about the WPA, and I didn’t know about the CC until actually just last week somebody was telling me about it. And then you





mentioned it again, it is funny how the CC gets forgotten. People don’t mention it as much as they mention the WPA, but they were both work programs.

	M:	The WPA was more widely known. Everybody knew about the WPA, because they picked up projects like—well like that city hall. They built that city hall. And it is like building roads. Well, it was more visible. Nearly all of those little roads in the Ocala National Forest was done by CCCs. And most of the CCCs, I think, went to your national parks. Like Ocala National Forest, Yosemite, Yellowstone, and that signal fort at Fernandina was national, but I can’t remember the name of it.

	B:	I can’t either. So were there a lot of people that visited parks at that time? Was that a common thing to go to the park on the weekend or—

	M:	I don’t remember.



	B:	Do you remember ever going to the springs or traveling to go somewhere for vacation?

	M:	Well Orange Springs. [Laughter]



	B:	Orange Springs is right here at the mill, right?



	M:	No, the town of Orange Springs. [Laughter] Well they’ve got a big water plant there now.

	S:	What was that like when you were young?



	M:	They had a concrete wall all around it, and it is about half sulfur. Not completely but it is about half sulfur.

	S:	Was there a diving board?





	M:	I believe there was, at one time. Orange Springs is one of the old settlements in the state of Florida. One of the old originals. Because these boat people came in, a lot of them came to Fernandina and come down the Intracoastal, and you picked up the St. Johns in Jacksonville and came on down to South Florida, and Orange Springs is off of the Ocklawaha River. So they come in off the Ocklawaha River, and the Smith family over here at Monteocha, that family originated from Orange Springs to Micanopy. They are all original settlers in that Monteocha area.

	B:	So what did you at the springs? Just mainly go swimming? M:	Go swimming.

	B:	And that was you and your whole family? Would your dad go with you? M:	No, he didn’t do that. All he wanted to was work.

	B:	Oh okay.



	M:	All he thought you were supposed to do was work. He didn’t think you were supposed to play.

	B:	Would your mom go with you? She would probably drive you down there. M:	Yeah. Yeah, she did.

	B:	Would Cassie go with you?



	M:	Yeah, sometimes. You would talk about integration on the beaches. Cassie integrated St. Augustine Beach years ago. [Laughter]

	B:	Did you read about it in the papers or did she tell you about it or were you there? M:	I was there. Of course, you didn’t get to go but about once a year then.





	B:	What were the rules for bringing your house workers to the beach if they were Black?

	M:	You could bring them to take care of the kids.



	B:	But they weren’t allowed to wear bathing suits or— M:	No.

	B:	Or lay out?



	M:	She wouldn’t have put on a bathing suit anyway. She looked mini look little. [Laughter] And of course, Magnesia Springs is here too.

	B:	Can you tell us a little bit about Magnesia Springs?



	M:	Well, Magnesia Springs is built years ago. I don’t remember when, but it was built before my time really. But we used to all go to Magnesia Springs, and a boy used to peddle spring water all over this county. It was mineral water.

	B:	Probably the original water bottle. M:	It was potable.

	B:	That was probably one of the first people that ever thought to put water in bottles and sell it.

	M:	He started that. He started that years ago. You could get bottle water from Magnesia Springs as long as I can remember. But we had a lot of school parties at Magnesia Springs and Fowler’s Lake. Fowler’s Lake is out there off of Orange Lane. We used to go out there for all our school parties.

	B:	The whole class would go? M:	Yeah.

	B:	Or the whole school? How many people?





	M.	The whole class.



	B:	Okay. Okay.



	M:	Only was three hundred people in the whole school.



	S:	What was Magnesia Springs like when you were there as a kid?



	M:	It was a big spring and the spring fed the swimming pool, which was a big swimming pool. It wasn’t a little one. And that whole area, it had a set up where you could have lunch parties, tables for parties. He didn’t, if he could help it, he didn’t allow any liquor. It was too dangerous swimming. But we all enjoyed Magnesia.

	S:	Do you remember any stories from going there?



	M:	No, not really. Other than just swimming, partying, school parties. S:	Because I heard they had some sort zip-line that you could—

	M:	Oh, they had a big frame up where you can swing up on the trapeze bar, miss it and fall in the water.

	S:	[Laughter]



	M:	It had a big diving board.



	S:	Did it have a separate pool for women to wash their hair?



	M:	I never heard of washing their hair, but they had it for kids. A little pool for small kids to get in. I don’t remember how deep that little one was.

	B:	Did it have the same rules that Black people could only go if they were minding the kids? Or were they allowed to swim too.

	M:	I don’t think they were allowed out there period. B:	Really?





	M:	Not at that time, because that was before it really closed, before the integration time took over in 19[54].

	B:	So you remember—



	M:	In fact, a nudist camp owned it at owned one time. B:	Right, what happened to Magnesia Springs?

	M:	A nudist camp bought it, and then it went back, I believe it went back to David Reeper and his family. He was a member out of that family. And the nudist camp went to Levy Prairie. And from there, I don’t know what it is doing now.

	B:	What did the people of Hawthorne think of having a nudist camp?



	M:	Some liked it and some didn’t. Just like they do everywhere. [Laughter] B:	I can just imagine.

	M:	I didn’t care one way or the other.



	B:	I can just imagine in my hometown in Birmingham in Alabama that people would raise a big fuss about that.

	M:	Only some did and some didn’t. B:	Okay.

	S:	Was there a movie theatre when you were growing up?



	M:	Yeah. Jack Grime’s daddy come in here and put in a small movie theater, and it was right down there were they got that, where they hold that church in the middle of town was the old movie theater. And at that time coming up, going back into Hawthorne, what all was here. We had a gas station next door to that. That is where that flower shop’s at. It was a 27 Model Standard Oil. Then it Standard Oil of Kentucky. You probably remember that out of Kentucky.





	B:	I know Standard Oil. No, I never know where they were based. M:	They were based at that time in the middle of Kentucky.

	B:	Where are they based know? In Florida…?



	M:	They sold. No, their base is in California now. I guess San Francisco. Chevron bought them out. But the old Standard of Kentucky Company consisted of Florida, Georgia, Alabama, Kentucky.

	B:	Tennessee?



	M:	Mississippi.



	B:	Not Tennessee?



	M:	Um-hm. Tennessee was Enco. Standard of New Jersey. And in about 1962 or [19]63, Standard Oil of New Jersey was furnishing Standard Oil of Kentucky. Kentucky was only a marketing company. Had no finders and no wells. Standard Oil of New Jersey, which was Esso, came to the president of Standard Oil of Kentucky and says, “We would like to buy you out. If you won’t sell, we are going to move into Florida—the southern states.” I forget what our president’s name was. But anywho, he was a bullhead. He said, “Whether or not, we won’t sell to you.” So they fooled, kept working, and they found Chevron, which is Standard Oil of California. And Standard of California bought the Kentucky company. They called it a merger, but there wasn’t a merger to it. It was a sale. After they bought it, they told Standard Oil of Kentucky that you will sink a well off the Gulf, at Pascagoula. You will build a refinery. Which when they completed the refinery at Pascagoula, it was one of the largest refineries in the world.

	B:	And where is Pascagoula?





	M:	Pascagoula, Mississippi. And I was with Standard Oil at that time. I was on the road. It took about five years to transform from Kentucky to complete Chevron. We would run around with cameras in our cars taking all kind of illegal pictures to send in. [Laughter]

	B:	And what did you do for Standard Oil? What was your—? M:	I was retail and sales.

	B:	Okay.



	M:	I was in charge of sales of oil to big service stations in Alachua County, Putnam County, part of Flagler County, Bradford County. At one time I had thirty-five stations under me.

	B:	How did you get into that work?



	M:	Well, I first opened up a service station and from that I went on the road.



	B:	When did you open the service station? You see, you have to go through your whole profession career too, because this is all fascinating. This explains why you know where every single gas station around, because I heard him going off about how many gas stations were in town. [Laughter]

	M:	I think I opened that station somewhere probably in [19]53 or [19]52. Probably [19]53.

	B:	So you would have been about twenty-five.



	M:	It was right down here. You know where the Baptist church is at? Right across the street from where the Baptist church is at. I opened it up brand new, and I put in about five or six years in the station, and then I went on the road for Standard Oil folk for about ten or twelve years.







B:

Did you have to apply for the retail position or did they just know you from having



worked with you?

M:

Mainly because I guess I am successful in the service station.

S:

Did you travel? How far did you travel when you were traveling?

M:

All over the middle state. All over the middle of Florida.

S:

Just in Florida?

M:

Florida.

B:

What kind of car did you drive?

M:

Well, when I first went to work, I drove a Plymouth. Then I went to Chevrolet,



then I went to Ford.

B:

Do you remember them well, because you spent a lot of time in them?

M:

That was your office. My headquarters was Jacksonville, but I lived here.

B:

Did you get free gas, because you were working for Standard Oil? Did you just



roll into a gas station and fill up?

M:

In my company car I did. In my personal car I didn’t.

B:

Well, which one was the company car?

M:

The first one was the Plymouth. I wore that one out.

B:

What color was it?

M:

I don’t remember.

B:

You don’t remember that color your office was! [Laughter]

S:

What year was it?





M:  It was new. Probably [19]54, [19]55. Somewhere along there. No, it was not. It was [19]62 when I went on the road. It was [19]62, [19]63. And I wore that one out. Then they gave me a Chevrolet, and I wore it out.

B:   Do you remember what color it was?



	M:	It was blue. I remember what color it was. B:	Do you remember what model it was?

	M:	No.



B:   You would recognize it if you saw a picture, huh?



	M:	Yeah. Then I had a Ford. The last one I had was a Ford. B:	Do you remember anything about it? Its color?

M:   It was white.



B:   Okay. You don’t remember the model.



	M:	It was probably a [19]70, about a [19]70. I know where I bought it. It was bought from Luther White in Chiefland. And there was a reason why Luther sold them. He sold all the Fords there in that time, because he was buying all his diesel fuel from Standard Oil. [Laughter]

	B:	I got you. There was a little cooperation going on.



	M:	That is the reason I say these bids is a bunch of bull. Because we was ordering to buy from Luther White, but we had to have three bids to satisfy the board of directors. So you’d go get a price from Luther White. Then you would go get a price from two other people, and if they wasn’t higher than Luther’s, you would go get another one. You would go get them until you got two higher than his, and you’d turn them in and go get your car.





	B:	I got you.



	S:	Rigged!



	M:	They’re all rigged. Don’t you know that, Minnie?



	B:	So you have the scoop on Standard Oil. You know its history and everything that went on inside too.

	M:	That is the reason that I am so disappointed in this oil spill. Nobody would have told me that they couldn’t have shut that thing off just like that, but the valve malfunctioned, and it’s going to destroy the Gulf.

	B:	Do you want to explain to the tape what’s going on right now with the oil spill? M:	Well I thought I knew, but I don’t.

	B:	Well what was your understanding? M:	I thought they could have controlled it.

	B:	I would like to know what your understanding of it was.



	M:	But I didn’t know that they could drill in that deep of water either. Because when I left them, about [19]65, one hundred feet was as deep as they could go.

	B:	How deep is this one? M:	Five thousand feet.

	B:	Oh my gosh.



	M:	A mile.



	B:	Wow. I didn’t even know the Gulf—it’s in the Gulf, isn’t it? M:	Yup.

	B:	I didn’t even know the Gulf was that deep.





	M:	Oh yeah. When you drop off that continental shelf in that Gulf when it makes its loop, I don’t remember how deep it is, but it is deep. You could get off in six hundred feet of water off of that panhandle and be inside of land now for Cedar Key. You could go thirty-five miles and you are still only sixty-five or seventy foot.

	B:	Do you remember any oil spills when you were either growing up or working for Standard Oil? What was the first oil spill that you remember?

	M:	No, I don’t remember us ever having one.



	B:	So Valdez might have been the first one you ever…?



	M:	Valdez was the first big one, yeah. And that was due to a drunk skipper. B:	Was it?

	M:	So they say. Because that’s not new, they all do. B:	A skipper is a person that works on the boat, right? M:	He is the boss of the boat. He is the captain.

	B:	Oh, okay.



	M:	He is the law whenever it goes into international waters.



	B:	So oil used to be much more controlled than it is today, I guess.



	M:	Well, I don’t think they were using as much of it as there is today. And at one time back in World War II, that was one of the biggest things that put us on top was we were self-sufficient on oil. We didn’t have to go buy oil from nobody. And we got the oil right here in this country now. If they would quit selling it to China and they only started this offshore drilling really since I would guess the [19]50s when they started it. And they were shallow wells then, because I didn’t know they could go five thousand feet.





B:   Do you remember when we started buying oil from the Arab countries?



	M:	Probably in the [19]50s. The reason I am saying the [19]50s is that I got out of the service in [19]51, and they had just started the Caliphate Pipelines in Arabia. In fact, I thought about going over there and going to work. I got married instead.

	S:	You got married. Tell us about your marriage. B:	What is your wife’s name? Is she still around?

M:  Her name is Margaret Roberts McMeekin. She was born and raised in Cross City, and she came here teaching school, and she met me. And hadn’t had money enough to leave. [Laughter]

S:   How did you meet?



	M:	Okay, this is an interesting story too. My daddy after he had left United Clay Mine built this motel down here south of town. It’s where the old run-down trailer park’s right now that ought to burn. He had a nice little motel down there. And back then they used to have a circus, and he owned that big field behind the motel, and the circus they put up back in the motel. Well anyway, they had the circus in town, and Carlos Land was the school principal, and he brought up a busload of children up to go to the circus. So he was going to park his bus on our way place so he backed into a septic tank, caved it in. And it was brand new. Of course, my daddy has got a lot of Irish in him. He was madder than [inaudible 1:06:01]. And I thought it was funny. [Laughter]

	M:	Anyway, they took the elephant and pulled the bus out the septic tank. [Laughter] B:	Are you serious?

	M:	Just as serious as I am sitting here.







B:

Oh my gosh.

M:

So a small group and one of the other school teachers came down to see the bus



and the septic tank, and that’s how it all started. She ran into me before she left.



[Laughter]

B:

Do you remember your first conversation with her?

M:

No.

B:

Must have been a lot—

M:

On half of the Bible it been awful. [Laughter]

B:

And then you guys got married here?

M:

Yup.

B:

Okay.

M:

We got married in Cross City, but I mean she was here.

S:

What did you do when you dated? What did you do for fun for dates?

M:

I’m afraid it’s been too many years ago.

B:

There must have been a…

M:

We didn’t need nothing uncovered though. [Laughter]

S:

Did you go to the movies?

M:

Yeah, [inaudible 1:07:06].

B:

Do you remember any movies you saw together?

M:

No.

B:

Too long ago.

M:

Wasn’t interested in movies.

B:

Oh, okay. [Laughter]





	B:	Did you ever take her to the springs?



	M:	Yeah. She liked that cold water, because she was born and raised at Cross City, and they had Fanning Springs. And her weekends was steal a dime out of her momma’s cash drawer and go to Fanning Springs and spend the day.

	B:	What did her mom do if she had a cash drawer? M:	She ran a little grocery store in Cross City.

	B:	So by the time you guys got married…



	M:	Not when I knew her she didn’t. She didn’t. Her dad was tax collector for twenty- four years. Like one year retirement got beat. He wouldn’t have got beat, but he thought he had it made so he didn’t politic.

	B:	So by the time you guys got married—what year was that that you guys got married?

	M:	[19]53.



	B:	By then, women were working. M:	July the 16th, 1953 at 3pm.

	B:	So women were working by [19]53. M:	Yeah.

	B:	But what got women into the workforce?



	M:	Oh, I would say independence more than anything else. B:	Okay. You don’t think it was the war?

	M:	Well, the war is what started it.



	B:	That is what started the independence, huh?





	M:	That is what started the independence. Because during the war, there wasn’t enough men to do the work. And I can say there wasn’t enough of us young’ns had to go to work in order to fill the jobs.

	B:	World War II was going on while you were in school. And you said you got out of the service. Which service were you in?

	M:	Army.



	B:	Was there a war going on when you? M:	World War II.

	B:	Wait. I thought you were in school during the war. M:	I was to start with but not at the end of it.

	B:	Oh, I got you. So you graduated and—



	M:	I actually went into the army in [19]46, after the big war was over. I would have been in center. I’ll go back for the fun of it now.

	B:	Please do.



	M:	In [19]45, before Japan surrendered, I was in Georgia at the clay mine. I was in one of those turning pools that you saw in that picture. I decided—it was at that in [19]45, back then you didn’t get deferred. If you was able to walk, you went. As the old saying goes, if you had one eye, send somebody with the other eye so you can see. But anyway, I was going to the sea. I was going to join the Seabees. I was working in Georgia.

	B:	What is the Seabees? I don’t know what that is.



	M:	That’s the construction of the Navy. The one that run the heavy equipment, and they built the airports. They played a big part in the Pacific. The Seabees was big





in the Pacific. I was going to join the Seabees. We come in off the pits when Japan had surrendered. I looked up and told the boss, I says, “I think I gambled on them letting us finish high school.” So I said, “I won’t be able to make it and join the Seabees.” So I came back and finished high school. And they gave a draft vacation, and then they started up again for about three or four months before they really—it might have longer than that. But anyway, I come back to Florida and I run the drag line all that summer. In that fall, well that September, I joined the army. I went to Camp Polk, Louisiana. From there I went to Italy. I stayed in Italy a year. When I come home and went to Missouri School of Mines for two years, I guess two years, then the Korean War started. I was stupid enough to join the reserve when I got out, so I could get out three months early, but I got an invitation to come back. So I run to Jacksonville and join the Seabees. Took the exam and passed and was a Second Class Petty Officer. But I was in the army reserve. My reserve status was in St. Louis. I transferred to get tuition, because I wasn’t finished with Missouri School of Mines. I walked into the Missouri office in St. Louis, and the captain looked at me and said, “We’ve been looking for you for three weeks. Where you been?” [Laughter] I told him what I wanted. He says, “Well, there’s no way. You are on orders right now to Korea.” He sits there and looks at me and says, “Can you be here at eight o’clock in the morning for a physical?” I said, “Yeah, I guess so, if you tell me to.” [Laughter] So from there, I come home, and I hadn’t even gotten home before I got my orders to report to Fort Hood. So I wound up in Korea, December of [19]50 through about the first of September of [19]51. And when I hit Japan, they interviewed





about five hundred of us to go to Signal Corps School, and I was lucky enough to wind up at Signal Corps School.

	B:	What is Signal Corps?



	M:	They build telephone lines. It’s for the communication. So I wound up in the



fourth Signal Battalion in Korea.



	B:	What was Korea like in the [19]50s? Was it— M:	It was hell.

	B:	Was it war all the time? Could you see bullets flying and things like that? What was it like?

	M:	Yeah.



	B:	Is it a bad memory? M:	I got three battle stars.

	B:	Really, you were in battle? Wow.



	M:	I remember when I was in battle. It was all battle to me. I know of one, Wonju. In January of [19]51 the thermometer in Seoul was thirty something below zero, and Wonju is fifty-six miles. How cold it was? I don’t know, but I know it was cold. I remember that. We was in that battle. That was the one they killed forty-four thousand Chinese in seventy-two hours. The way they did that, they made a big plunge and you followed, set up a line and then we haul buggy back. It was in a horseshoe in the Big River Valley, and they set the artillery up on that riverbank. And we lured those Chinese into that riverbank. As soon as they got bottled up in that horseshoe, they would fire on them. They claimed they killed forty-four thousand in seventy-two hours.





	B:	Is that a memory of victory for you or is it a memory of murder? What do you remember?

	M:	It’s a memory of victory. B:	Victory.

	M:	You don’t let them win. People like animals. I never talked a whole lot about it to—a got some med from that bunch of—I call them do-gooders. Holler about what the American soldiers did on that railroad at Relos. You may remember some of that.

	B:	I don’t remember.



	M:	I remember reading it in the paper about how they murdered women and children. Let me tell you something: them women and children could pull a Thompson submachine gun out from under their skirt and shoot you dead while you was wondering where they came from. And that is what happened at Relos. We got some of that. Not a lot, but we got a little of it. I was work outfit. We worked sometimes twenty-four hours a day. We didn’t sleep up where they were shooting, we stepped back, but we went forward in the daytime.

	B:	And that was just to build towers. M:	Telephone lines, right.

	B:	So you guys often were fired on I’m sure? M:	Yes.

	B:	Because you were setting up communication for your own side. M:	We received a little fire occasionally.





	B:	Was that nerve-racking? I just can’t even imagine what it would be like to know that there are people there that want to get rid of you.

	M:	To shoot you. [Laughter]



	B:	You must have been so brave. I know, it’s something that just gets passed over in the movies.

	M:	Well in this country, most of them or a lot them now that you hear all of this conversation. They don’t realize what it’s all about. And keep that war over there, don’t they? The biggest things we’ve heard is September 11 when the World Towers, that’s the biggest thing that’s happened on this soil. But that’s what war is. Just what some of those people went through.

	B:	Did you carry a rifle or something else? M:	Every day.

	B:	So you guys, even though you were a work party, you could defend yourselves.



	M:	Yeah, you didn’t know what you were going to run into. We were lucky. My outfit was lucky.

	B:	Did you have anybody in your outfit get hit?



	M:	Yeah, but not get killed. We didn’t have anybody get killed. B:	Did you feel really close to the guys in your outfit?

	M:	I wouldn’t get close to anybody. I wouldn’t get real close to anybody. You get close and you get killed. You treat them as a job. Not that you don’t defend them or back them up, but you hold a certain stay-back.

	B:	Did you write home to your parents often or your brothers? M:	Yeah. I somehow decided not to gamble though. [Laughter]





	B:	Why was that?



	M:	Well, none of us drew much money. We sent most of it home anyway. Fifteen dollars a month. Well when we got paid off, the only place to spend money was to gamble. So we’d sit down and play poker. And about once a month, we’d get to where we could send money home, so our motto was one person send it all home. On one night, we was sitting there, and I had come out pretty good beating this one boy and wound up with all the money in the squad. So I said, “Well let’s just play high card draw and see who sends it all.” I lost. I decided to turn one card, and I lose five hundred dollars. So I decided I wasn’t going to be a gambler. [Laughter]

	B:	Is it your family needed that money back home? M:	It wasn’t hurting.

	B:	It wasn’t hurting?



	M:	No. My family wasn’t hurting, but a lot of them were. A lot of families was hurting. S:	Did they save that money for you?

	M:	Yeah.



	S:	Okay.



	B:	So you ended up with a little bank account when you got home? M:	I bought a car with the damn good money. [Laughter]

	B:	You said you have two other brothers. They’re all younger, so they wouldn’t have been in the war, right?





	M:	Well, my brother just under me, he joined the Service. He joined the Navy. And he went to Elgin Air Force Base and flew as a pilot. He had two years at the University of Florida, so he got in the Naval Air Force. And he flew DDY.

	B:	What does that mean?



	M:	Bigger airplane. You know the big rescue planes? B:	Okay.

	M:	The kind with the big twin engines. Then it was one of the biggest. He flew that plane, and then he was transferred to Norfolk, and went in training on that big single engine torpedo plane. These were all jet propeller planes. That’s when the jets were just beginning. But he flew the big torpedo plane. He was in training off of Norfolk. And on those torpedo planes, when they attacked the ship, they dove a dive bomb, and they fly under it. They dropped the torpedo on this side, another drops it on this side, and the two planes pass. And they were in training, and he and the other plane went together when he landed trap down.

	B:	How much younger was he than you? M:	About three years.

	B:	So were you guys close growing up? M:	Yeah, real close.

	B:	Do you remember hearing about that he had died and what you felt like or where you were?

	M:	Well, it’s hard to say what you feel. S:	Were you here at that point?

	M:	Yup. Yeah.





	B:	So did somebody come to the door?



	M:	Daddy got a telegram that morning—it happened at night. Daddy got a telegram.



And my wife them came and told me about it. I don’t know how I was feeling. Just comes and takes it away from you.

	B:	Well Memorial Day was yesterday. What does Memorial Day mean to you?



	M:	Well, I generally go to at least one ceremony. I went to the Maureen. I’ve gone to that for the last couple of three years. Major Maureen is our post commander for the American Legion, and he’s doing an excellent job. In fact if it hadn’t been for him, I think we’d have lost the post several years ago. And they put on the [inaudible 1:21:43]. For him if nothing else. I’d go somewhere anyway.

	B:	Is that here in Hawthorne?



	M:	Yeah. The memorial they put on is at that cemetery on Starvation Hill. What do you call the name of that one?

	B:	I don’t know. Why do they call it Starvation Hill? M:	You know that hill is called Starvation Hill.

	S:	Oh, Starvation Hill.



	M:	It’s that big cemetery on the right going to Gainesville, just before you get there. S:	I never heard it called that. [Laughter]

	M:	It’s been called Starvation Hill long as I can remember. [Laughter] B:	I wonder where the name came from.

	M:	I don’t know. There must have been a boy that starved there.



	B:	It could be. That’s probably it actually. Your youngest brother, he never went to war?





	M:	He was in the Navy. Yeah.



	B:	During the end of World War II then or Korea?



	M:	Yeah, he was in the Korea. He went to Vietnam. He was in the Navy and was stationed in Key West. I’ll tell you something about his experience, and this will make you mad at our government, with the Kennedys. I ain’t never got over John

F. Kennedy sending those Bay of Pigs into Cuba and not giving them the air support and letting them boys face them tanks. I didn’t forgive him then. I don’t forgive him now. But Joe was in the Air Force around there, and the night those planes was supposed to fly out, they painted all the insignias off of those planes, and they were blank planes. And the night they were supposed to pull out to give those men support, they pulled them back into the hangars and put the insignias back on.

	S:	Really?



	M:	It makes you kind of mad.



	B:	So Joe was in Key West when that happened?



	M:	Yeah, he was in Key West at that time. In the navy.



	B:	So can you give just a little bit of background about Bay of Pigs, so people who are listening to the tape know what’s going on?

	M:	Well, the Bay of Pigs was whenever Russia had put all those big towers and I guess atomic stuff in Cuba. And the government had ordered them to move them out, to get them out. So they invaded Cuba, and the Bay of Pigs was an invasion of Cuba. And they sent those boys in there to face those Cuban and Russian tanks with a rifle in their hand, which was slaughter.





	B:	Them what was the thirteenth hour? There were thirteen hours until something, or something happened thirteen hours before the Bay of Pigs.

	M:	That’s when they decided to pull the air power out. I don’t know what they were afraid of, or what, but anyway, they pulled that air power out. But it was too far to stop the Bay of Pigs invasion.

	B:	Oh, there was a nuclear bomb. They almost shot a nuclear bomb, right? M:	They had a nuclear bomb in Cuba at that time.

	B:	And we probably had ours pointed at them.



M:   Yeah and that’s whenever they put the blockade, and we still got it around Cuba. I don’t know why in the world we can’t be friendly with Cuba again. I mean I think it’s the most stupid thing in the world.

	B:	So you’re ready for that? Having lived that history of knowing why the US is not friends with Cuba, you’re ready to move past that?

	M:	We should have been past that years ago, not just now. The Cuban people had nothing to do with it. That was Castro. He slaughtered the Cuban people. And he’s relatively gone now.

	B:	That’s true, yeah. That’s interesting. I never knew what somebody that had lived through it—I’ve met several Cuban immigrants who say it would really great to be able to go back home and visit and send money freely and that kind of thing. But I never heard a veteran say—I’ve never asked. So it is really interesting.

	M:	That was the Bay of Pigs. It was an invasion of Cuba to get rid of the atomic bombs, whatever Russia had down there.





	B:	Right. Well what was your time like in Italy? Did you face any warfare there? Or was it just more being stationed in Italy ready to go?

	M:	More or less being stationed.



	B:	So you have a little bit better memories of Italy?



	M:	The Italian people are friendly. They were friendly then. It wasn’t the Italian people, it was Mussolini and his connections with Hitler that forced Italy into that war.

	B:	Do you remember meeting Italian people and thinking these are nice people?



What was your opinion of people that you met?



	M:	I had no problem with them. B:	Did people speak English?

	M	When you was talking about money they could. [Laughter]



	B:	Did you live in the barracks with all American people or were there also Italian people there?

	M:	No, we had all American. Where we lived out in a hut up the mountains. I was on that Morgan Line. I was there whenever they reestablished the Italian and Yugoslavian border. It was out in the mountains and they moved it up to the inside of Gorizia.

	B:	You must have had a beautiful view being up in the mountains. M:	Well at that time, it was pretty well shot up.

	B:	Oh really?



	M:	Yeah.



	B:	Have you ever wanted to go back and visit?







M:



B:



M:

I went back.



You did go back!



I went back about three years ago.

B:

Really?

M:

Yeah.

B:

What did you think? I’m sure it looked totally different.

M:

Totally different. You couldn’t tell they’d hardly ever, maybe one or two places,



but you couldn’t hardly tell that they’d ever been a war there.

B:

Wow.

M:

We went back about three years ago. Maybe four.

B:

What made you want to go? I mean, had you been thinking about it for many



years and then just thought whenever I get the money?

M:

Yeah, yeah, I just kinda wanted to go back.

B:

Did you bring your wife?

M:

Yeah and sister. She went with us.

B:

Really?

M:

We went to Rome. I hadn’t been to Rome. We went to Rome, and to the Vatican,



went through the—where they made that movie.

B:

Da Vinci Code?

M:

Da Vinci Code. I believe that was it. Went to that place where they did that.

B:

Yeah, they must have been filming right around the time that you were there.





	M:	The filming was over when we was there. From there we went to Naples, and what’s that city that was buried by that volcano near Naples? Bombay. We went to Bombay.

	B:	Pompeii.



	M:	Pompeii. Pompeii.



	B:	Bombay was in India before.



	M:	India, right. I could see the mountain where it blew the top off of it. I think that city had been buried three or four times.

	B:	Vesuvius was the volcano, and Herculaneum and Pompeii were the cities. M:	Was the city, right.

	B:	So did you go back to the place where you were stationed? M:	Saw some of it, and we went to Sic—what’s that island?

	B:	Sicily.



	M:	Sicily. Then we went to Florence. I went back to Florence. I’ve been to Florence.



I went back to Florence. Went to the railroad station. I wanted to see that.



	B:	Had anything changed?



	M:	The only change was that they had diesel engines instead of steam. B:	Wow. Yeah, because it’s got old cities.

	M:	It’s the only thing I could tell the difference. And we went through the cathedrals in Florence. The statue of David.

	B:	You must have there for weeks. M:	Week. A week and a half.

	B:	You got a lot done in a week. Gosh.





	M:	Then went through the winery, the Tuscany wineries, which is supposed to be a special type of dirt that grows a grape that makes a special wine. By the way, that big winery is owned by a Kentucky company.

	B:	Oh. It’s funny that you travel thousands of miles to… [Laughter]



	M:	It used to be Italian though. They sold it, and it went back to Venice. I’d been to Venice before.

	B:	You said did get to go back to the place that you were stationed on the mountain?

M:  No, I didn’t get there. It was sixty miles further north. B:  Would you have wanted to go back if you had time? M:  No, not really.

B:   Seen enough of it, huh?



	M:	Yup. Went back to the Leaning Tower of Pisa. First time I was there, there wasn’t no tickets. There was nothing there. I walked up it. But this time, it looked like it grew, so I didn’t walk up it. I just took pictures with it.

	B:	It looked like it grew. [Laughter] M:	I wasn’t but nineteen the first time.

	B:	They must have been good grapes. My goodness.



	M:	We went back to Venice. We went back to Venice. We spent a couple of nights in Venice.

	B:	That sounds amazing. A good way to revisit things. M:	Oh, I just kind of wanted to go back.

	B:	Yeah, but Korea you don’t ever want to go back and visit that?





	M:	No.



	B:	Happy staying here.



	S:	I want to bring us back to Hawthorne. If I can. B:	Go for it.

	M:	I will tell you one reason that I don’t want to go back to Korea. The United States government has rebuilt, at taxpayers’ expense, every country they have ever fought except the South. Stop and think about it. They never rebuilt where Sherman tore up the South, but every country we spend billions of dollars rebuilding what we tore up. We tore up, but they didn’t do it for the South. I’d hate to kind of go back over there and see what I think I’d see, knowing who paid the bill. The town of Wonju was a town of about probably a million people, and I went through Wonju. In fact, you’d take a line of bulldozers and bulldozed it down.

The whole town, not part of it. But we rebuilt it for those folks, and we paid the bill. And that kind of gets my dandruff up.

	B:	Right, I could see that.



	M:	But it’s true. Look at what we spent in Iraq. B:	And still spending.

	M:	And still spending.



	B:	Do you want to go back to Hawthorne? [Laughter] B:	I know you said [inaudible 1:33:19].

	S:	I’m sort of stunned here, if I think about that. B:	I know. It’s a good point.





	S:	[Inaudible 1:33:22]. But it’s within our own country. Which you know, there’s a lot of things like that.

	B:	And you’ve been walking this land for a while, so you know what’s not rebuilt. M:	Eighty-three years.

	B:	Yeah and your whole family history is here. I’m sure you heard stories about what it was like before that got passed down through your family, before the Civil War.

	S:	Do you remember anything about moonshining? Was there moonshining in this area when you were young? Have I touched a nerve?

	M:	Where is Dice’s Mill at? [Laughter]



	B:	While we’re looking, what’s the general opinion? Was this something that people looked down on and it was illegal? What was the general air about moonshining?

	S:	What about the grey book? Did it make it into the grey book?



	M:	No. No, it wasn’t in the grey book. It was inside of this [inaudible 1:34:15] I saw a while ago. [inaudible 1:34:20].

	M:	Oh, maybe it’s in this one too. Anyway, I’ll tell you. I won’t find it. But out here where Highway 20 crosses the creek, where that big white fence is at, that used to be a little rooms of Dice’s. Blacksmith shop. Along that prairie, he was a moonshine king of this area of the country until they legalized liquor. Finally, they had to send him up. He put in one year. [Laughter] Come back home and built him a blacksmith shop, and that’s where the moonshine was made. Yeah, there was a lot of moonshine made here. It was made out there, it was made out here





at Four Lakes, Red Water Lake, what they called Pine Island was the old head Gordon still.

	S:	How was it transported and when? M:	Fruit jars at night.

	S:	Did people go there and buy or he put it in the car and delivered it?



	M:	I think they probably went there and bought it. And of course the sheriff was paid, and I don’t think they were ever. There was enough pressure put on them, they had to finally catch him. Catch one every now and then. He put up a year and he come back and continued his operation.

	B:	Were the owners of the stills Black guys or White guys? M:	Both.

	B:	Were they families?



	M:	Lorenzo was White, Lorenzo was White.



	B:	Were they family men or were they single guys? M:	Different. Different.

	B:	Just depended.



	M:	He was big one out here on Levi’s Prairie. And that was [inaudible 1:36:50].



	S:	Lorenzo’s, was that what is now the Jeep property? Is that them right there on that—

	M:	It was across the street from the white fence across the road. That was a set soon to groom. I think that grove was found in [1950], probably [19]58 when set soon to groom.





B:  So was it thought of as illegal or was it something everybody did, they just didn’t talk about it?

M:  Well, it was thought of as—well it was illegal. It was illegal. But I think they caught them every now and then to collect the taxes on it. And Baker County was worse. It’s probably the moonshine capital of the state. Probably still is.

	S:	Where there juke joints and places like that around here? M:	Yeah.

	B:	Do you remember where any of them were or what they were like? M:	Yeah, I remember several of them. [Laughter]

	S:	Tell us about them.



	B:	You don’t have to share nothing personally. S:	We want to know.

	M:	Okay. One of the big ones here was the Nightingale. You know where Prairie Creek’s at?

	B:	Mmhm.



	M:	Know the big curve? It was on the left-hand side of the big curve. That was the Nightingale. That was the big one. And it operated good in my day. And I did visit. [Laughter] The next one was right up—remember where the crossroad goes to Newman’s Lake? Where you go up Highway 20, you take a right to Newman’s Lake?

	B:	Mmhm.





M:  Right in that quadrant, it was called Dean’s. Now Dean’s burned and I was told it was burned. I was too young for that one. But I remember when it burned. I was told that it was burned by some of the ladies of Gainesville.

	S:	To keep the men from going? M:	Yup. [Laughter]

	B:	What were these places like? Was there music or was it really a jukebox?



	M:	Most of it was jukebox. Jukebox. That’s where they had all these little old bands.



And Henry’s Liquor Store, you know where it’s at—was at?



	B:	Mmhm.



	M:	That was right on the corner going to my house. [Laughter] S:	Right down there at about 20 and 219, is that where it’s at?

	M:	Yup. Was it 219? 20 A and 20 I think. I don’t know these road numbers. Give me the size of those trees and that’s where it’s at.

	B:	Right.



	M:	But anyway, the reason that was Johnny Coleman’s. And Henry bought it from Johnny Coleman, and they sold gasoline there too. That was one of the better ones. Henry kept it pretty darn clean. And there was one over there on Cowpen Lake. I never did go over in that one. I forget the name of it. It was over there by where that Southbed Band Camp’s at. That was pretty rough.

	B:	Rough meaning biker people or—?



	M:	Means you’d get your head skinned, running for your head in first. [Laughter]



	And if it saved you, don’t get into Dentin, you leave. [Laughter] S:	So how far back does Henry’s go?





	M:	Henry’s was probably built by Johnny Coleman in the late [19]20s, and Henry bought it probably somewhere around [19]32 or [19]33. I remember when Henry owned it, but I don’t remember the dates.

	S:	So was it mostly just a jukebox too? Not live music.



	M:	This is strictly jukebox. His was mainly sales, and there were times when they’re getting ready to take a vote to make Alachua County dry, you get the bootleggers to get the preachers to preaching against it. So it finally killed it. But it finally passed after a number of years.

	S:	Oh, the bootleggers—



	M:	And that pretty well broke up the bootlegging whenever Alachua County went wet.

	S:	They didn’t want it to be legal.



	M:	Right. Well it didn’t have the sales. They lost their market. B:	When did it go wet? Sorry.

	S:	Go ahead.



	M:	I forget when it went wet. I think I was out of school. Wasn’t it in the [19]40s? S:	Wow.

	M:	I believe in the [19]40s when it went wet.



	B:	I was about to ask what kind of alcohol they served at the juke joint, but I guess they didn’t serve any before the [19]40s.

	M:	No, but you’d buy it and have it in the car.



	B:	Oh, okay. It was B-Y-O-B or B-Y-O-Moonshine or something. [Laughter] M:	There was always a way to get around that.





	B:	There’s no corkage fee, you just bring it in.



	S:	So was there any place to go and hear live music? Did you go anywhere to? M:	No, there really wasn’t any place.

	B:	Do you remember Bo Diddley? M:	Yeah.

	B:	Yeah. Were there stories about him? What did you know about him?



	M:	I didn’t know too much about him. I knew where he lived. He lived at Johnson Station.

	B:	Well, that was out near you then. M:	Yeah. I lived here then.

	B:	Okay.



	M:	We were living—I went from August [19]45, maybe [19]44 up to about [19]53, I wasn’t here. That was during the time I was either in the army or in school or off working. I come back here about [19]53 to stay.

	B:	And when was Bo Diddley’s heyday?



	M:	Bo Diddley was later than that. He was up, what, [19]80s, [19]90s. S:	Sounds like he left here in the [19]80s.

	M:	Somewhere along there.



	B:	Oh, I thought he did [19]50s music. Jeez, I’m off. M:	He may have. I don’t know. I don’t know.

	B:	Well, I had another question about the juke joints. Would Black people go there too? Were they allowed to go or were they segregated?

	M:	Shoot no, they didn’t go there. [Laughter]







B:

No, why?

M:

And the White folks didn’t go to their juke joints either. [Laughter]

B:

Oh so they had their own juke joints.

M:

They had their own.

B:

I got you.

M:

There’s a street right down here. Right in front of Shell Schools. Two of the



biggest Black juke joints you ever saw.

B:

Did those have live music? Did you ever know if they did?

M:

I don’t know. I think it was all juke joints.

B:

Okay.

M:

Nickelodeons. Nickelodeons.

B:

What do you think would have happened if a White person would have gone in



theirs or—

M:

He’d have gotten his head skinned. [Laughter]

B:

You think so? It wasn’t a safe thing to do, huh?

M:

Right.

S:

Well, you’re quite the fisherman. You fished a lot of these lakes around here.

M:

All of ‘em.

S:

Yeah. What did you fish for?

M:

Bass mostly. Either bass or speckled perch.

S:

What was the most unusual fish you ever caught around here?

M:

You said unusual. That kind of threw me.

S:

Or big or little or what the most unusual thing you ever saw?







M:



S:

I never caught a big freshwater fish. I never caught one over six pounds.



Did you ever catch an alligator?

M:

Yeah.

B:

Oops.

M:

I killed several of them too.

S:

Oh god.

B:

With guns I’m assuming.

M:

Yeah.

B:

Or a club or something?

M:

He was a thirty-two incher. [Laughter]

B:

Oh my god. What did you do with the body?

M:

But it was legal then.

S:

It was legal.

B:

Oh okay.

M:

It was legal then.

B:

What do you do with the body when you kill an alligator?

M:

You’d eat it or give it away.

B:

Oh okay.

M:

I’d eat the tail. I didn’t know you could eat the legs until not too long ago.



[Laughter]

B:

What does it taste like? How would you describe alligator meat?

M:

I would say like pork or beef or fish. Like pork with fishy flavor to it.

B:

Okay, that’s strange.





	S:	You live here. You need to eat some.



	B:	I know. I’ve seen it at Ward’s in Gainesville, but I’ve never…



	M:	Now I ain’t never ate no rattlesnake. And I ain’t going to either. [Laughter]



	B:	Yeah, I guess that’s something people would eat if given the opportunity. Oh goodness.

	S:	Armadillo?



	M:	No, I don’t eat any armadillo either. I wouldn’t say I’d kill an old armadillo, but I’ kill a rattlesnake.

	S:	What church did you attend or do you? M:	Baptist.

	B:	Have you always attended the same one?



	M:	Yeah. Primarily. I went Presbyterian one time. B:	Yeah? What prompted—

	M:	That was when I was in Missouri with a young lady. [Laughter] B:	Well, old habits don’t die in heaven.

	S:	When you were young, what activities were associated with going to church? Did you just go on Sundays or were there other things that you did?

	M:	Yeah, on occasion they’d have a little picnic. A little picnic. My great-grandmother joined this First Baptist Church here in 1857. The church was built in 1853. And she was a member of that church until about 1890. Then she joined Ochwilla Church, because so many of her children join that church. Ochwilla. So she changed to the Ochwilla Church. As far as I know, my granddad on my Daddy’s





side, McMeekin, never joined a church. As far as I know, they went, but they never joined.

	B:	Is there a reason?



	M:	I don’t know. I guess maybe he thinks kinda like I do in a way. There’s just as many ways to heaven as there is roads on the highway as long you believe in whatever Supreme Being. I think the same way, and I also say there ain’t no atheists, true atheists. You don’t believe that with them bullets fly around his head. See if you don’t learn how to pray. [Laughter] Yeah, I guess that’s true. Maybe atheists just haven’t been in the situation that would test them to see if they really are. That’s funny.

	S:	I have one more question about the-- and I keep going back to this, I just want to make sure we don’t miss anything about this—is that property out there where the mill is. The Morrison’s Mill. Do you know anything more about that property or the property across the street where the Fowler’s—you talked about Fowler’s Lake and that Fowler’s Prairie out there. Any other stories to tell about that area?

	M:	Fowler’s Lake and Fowler’s is really just in Putnam County on the Orange Line. You can’t see it now, because there’s too much vegetation. But when the foliage is off, you can leave the Ochwilla school, Ochwilla church, and on the left-hand side, through that long pasture, you can see Fowler’s Lake. But it’s privately owned now, where you can’t get to it. But that’s one of the old settlements in this area.

	B:	Really?



	M:	Really. The Worley Settlement is an old settlement.





	S:	Really?



	M:	I know they were here before the Civil War. The Carlton’s family was here before the Civil War.

	S:	We’ll be talking to him.



	B:	Yeah. Well I have a question for you. Did anybody ever go to Gainesville? What would have been the role of Gainesville and the coming of University of Florida to Gainesville?

	M:	Yeah. We went to Gainesville. Of course, we went to Palatka I guess more than Gainesville.

	B:	Oh really?



	M:	Well see, we lived in Putnam County, just across the line. And all our business or daddy’s business with the courthouse was Putnam County. So that’s the reason we didn’t go to Gainesville. Now it’s turned out to where I guess I got as much in Gainesville to do as in Putnam County. However, I pay more taxes in Putnam County than I do in Alachua.

	B:	And that’s because of your property? Where you own property? M:	I got homestead exempt in Alachua, and I don’t in Putnam.

	B:	Oh, okay. So Gainesville was kind of a political place to go? You’d go there to pay taxes and for the courthouses. And you said Cassie went to the hospital there? But you didn’t go there just to chill off or—

M:  At that time, the time I’m talking about, Gainesville was the only hospital. Palatka had no hospital. Alachua General was it. Gertrude Rosetree was one of the first managers of GHS, and I guess I might as well tell you this too while I’m at it. My





grandmother and Dr. Cason from Island Grove were the two people that organized the state board of nursing for the state of Florida. And that would have been somewhere about 1919 to 1920. I don’t know the exact date. Probably could look on her graveyard and tell you almost the day they did it. Because she was state board of nursing secretary for twenty-five years. First twenty-five years. She lived at McMeekin, but all of her business, postal was through Hawthorne. She had the office in her house in McMeekin.

	B:	Knowing that there was no hospital other than the one in Gainesville… M:	Right.

	B:	So why didn’t she move to Gainesville? Was she ever tempted?



	M:	She wasn’t going to leave McMeekin once she got back out there. She wouldn’t let them move the secretary’s office. She was very, very strong. She entered the male world when females did not go into the male world.

	B:	What did her husband think of that?



	M:	He did what she told him to do. [Laughter]



	M:	To go back to tell you who she was, she come from an extremely strong family and a wealthy family. It was the Chires family that moved and settled in Tallahassee. In fact there’s a Chires Station that’s built after them.

	B:	How do you spell that? M:	C-H-I-R-E-S.

	B:	Okay.



	M:	She was, after her husband died, that would have been my granddaddy…she had daddy, who was about five years old, to feed. She went to St. Luke’s





Hospital in Jacksonville as a nurse, and she met Dr. Cason, who was a medical family, the whole Cason family, there was two of them that was doctors. And she and Dr. Cason was two of the organizers of the state board of nursing. And if you got a nursing license at Alachua, you went through her.

	B:	So she kind of entered the workforce because her husband died. M:	Yeah.

	B:	And she had to support the family. M:	Had to support the family.

	B:	Huh.



	M:	My daddy went to work for Murrow’s Steaming Shipyard when he wasn’t but about twelve years old. He went to sea when he was sixteen.

	B:	Oh my gosh. So you come from a very decorated family. Landowners, people who’ve started boards, you just have a very interesting family. Founded a town.

	M:	It would have been a town if that freeze hadn’t come down, I’m sure. Because at one time, there was two hardware stores out there and a lumber store and I don’t know what all was there. That was before my time.

	B:	Do you remember the University of Florida coming to Gainesville?



	M:	I don’t remember it coming, but I remember when it wasn’t but a thousand students. And Gainesville wasn’t but ten thousand people. That was [19]41.

	B:	Wow, it’s about ten times that size now. M:	That’s right.





	B:	I had a couple of questions about the Civil Rights Movement. Do you remember any events or anything that happened either in Gainesville or when Martin Luther King Junior was shot or anything? Big moments.

	M:	I don’t remember too much on Martin Luther King, but I do know that when the civil rights came about in the [19[50s, there was a lot of conflicts. An awful lot of conflicts in the schools, the students. There was a lot of fights. In Gainesville High School, there was one incident that I knew about. Some of the Black people stick razor blades in their shoes, walked by students slashing them with it. It’s not anything talked about that. You don’t hear anything about it, but it happened.

	B:	So the conflicts that we were hearing about here in Hawthorne, it was mostly Black on White conflicts rather than White on Black?

	M:	Yeah.



	B:	Because you hear the opposite, in Birmingham especially, you hear the opposite that it was always White students barring the Black students from school or getting in fights with them or attacking them in school.

	M:	Well, that was here, too. That was here too, right. I’d say probably in that respect Alabama and Florida was about the same at that time.

	B:	So there were conflicts over education. Were there conflicts over desegregating theaters and restaurants and things?

	M:	Well for a long time, the banks didn’t go. But eventually, they been accepted to go.

	B:	Meaning you think that they might have been a little scared to go? Like that they didn’t feel comfortable with it?





	M:	I think probably a little of both.



	B:	Both meaning the White people also didn’t want them there. M:	Right.

	B:	Okay.



	M:	And they didn’t want to go. And I’ll show you something else. You can go look and see. We got a White cemetery here. We got a Black cemetery here. As far as the law goes, they’re all one and the same. But you never see a Black person going to go in that White section. Vice-versa. I’ve noticed that, and I don’t know why, but you just once in a great while you’ll see a Black person wanna to go in the White and I guess vice-versa too. But mainly, they still don’t enter. The dead don’t wanna integrate. [Laughter]

	B:	Well we’ve talked to several Black people, and they’ve said, “We had a community before desegregation. Nobody said well we were opposed to desegregation, but we had a community going. And when they desegregated things, we were bused to different schools, and we were kind of forced to join in with White culture.” It wasn’t that they didn’t want to, but they had their own thing going too.

	M:	They had no choice.



	B:	A lot of their community got broken up because of it.



	M:	I think it’s going both ways. I think it’s good and I think it’s bad. I think it could go both ways. I know I myself have no big problem with it, but yet still there’s still a borderline. You can say what you want to, but there’s still a borderline even then.





	B:	Was Hawthorne—you said there was the main train tracks—was there kind of a dividing line between the Black community and the White community? Like a physical dividing line?

	M:	There still is.



	B:	Where is it?



	M:	[Laughter] This is the Black section, and that’s the Black section, and the Whites are still mainly in the middle. However, there’s still a lot integration within it, but there’s still primarily—you can almost drive your car and see the lines.

	B:	Right. I was hearing stories of Black and White people work together a lot, those kinds of things. So would you say that Hawthorne kind of seemed a little more integrated than a lot of places that you were hearing about or was it just the same as everywhere else that you had visited?

	M:	I think probably Hawthorne itself, in a way, has always been integrated. As far as the workforce goes. Because you’ve had White folks that worked side-by-side with the Black folks and vice-versa.

	B:	But education was very segregated? M:	Yeah, education was very segregated.

	B:	And the movie theater? Were Black people allowed in the movie theater? M:	I don’t remember. I never did go to a movie here.

	B:	Oh, okay. And restaurants, you can’t remember whether or not they were? M:	What restaurants? [Laughter]

	B:	Oh, there weren’t any? There were none to desegregate.





	M:	The only restaurant we had was the truck stop. That was cookies and off an overpass.

	B:	What was it like working in the gas station? Were Black people allowed to buy things from the store the same as White people or did you yourself have any regulations on certain things that certain people could buy or not?

	M:	You couldn’t tell the difference in the money. [Laughter] B:	Okay, so it didn’t matter as a business owner.

	M:	No, because I had Black boys that worked for me. In fact, Kit’s daddy worked for me. He was—and he and I, I consider real good friends.

	B:	Did the boys work the counter and that kind of thing? And accept money and that kind of stuff?

	M:	Yup, mine did.



	B:	So they would accept money from Black or White people, it didn’t matter? M:	It didn’t matter. I’d say that here is pretty close to the same as Alabama.

	B:	Okay. Yeah, it’s weird, because I think Alabama has a really, really bad reputation, historical reputation for its race relations, but it sounds like Florida had a lot of the same.

	M:	Florida had a lot of the same. It just wasn’t publicized—let me see, who’s that governor of Alabama?

	B:	Wallace.



	M:	Wallace. See Wallace caused a lot of Alabama’s reputation and the conversation.

	B:	And the fire department in Birmingham. Selma March.





	M:	Right, but you had it everywhere. It wasn’t just Alabama. It wasn’t just there. B:	Was there a KKK here?

	M:	Yeah.



	B:	There was?



	M:	The KKK was strong here at one time. S:	Here in Hawthorne?

	M:	Yeah.



	B:	What years was it strong?



	M:	Well really it would have been before my time. In fact, probably turn of the century.

	B:	Are people still secretive about who was in it? Like will anyone admit that their relatives were in it or anything?

	M:	My granddaddy was in it. I think my daddy too.



	B:	Because it was kind of a political party at one time. It wasn’t really just about terrorizing certain groups. It was a political party too.

	M:	The KKKs here would jump on a Black man or a White man, it didn’t make no difference which. I think probably they took a lot of stuff in their own hands. But you didn’t have any law enforcement. There wasn’t any law enforcement hardly back then. Somebody had to.

	B:	Do you ever remember your dad just leaving in the evenings or going to meeting or being open about it?

	M:	No, the KKs pretty well broke up when I was still little.





	B:	And then there wasn’t much going on with the civil rights? The KKK didn’t come back around?

	M:	They didn’t here. I don’t know about some—well, some places they did, but they didn’t here. In fact, the KKs never really came back here, I’m going to say after the [19]30s.

	B:	What about lynchings? Were there lynchings here? M:	There was some lynchings here.

	B:	Do you remember any in your lifetime? M:	No.

	B:	Okay, it was before your—? M:	Not that I know of for sure.

	B:	What would have people gotten lynched for?



	M:	Rape mainly, and it didn’t matter what color you was, either. B:	So there were White people that were lynched also.

	M:	Can you remember any racial hate crimes or anything that went on? It was mostly kind of peaceful?

	M:	No more than there is now. In fact, I think there’s more now. In here there’s more now.

	B:	And I think it is easy to talk about the Civil Rights Movement as a time of conflict, but I’m sure there was a lot of peaceful—you know, people working together too.

	M:	Right. What else can we think about? S:	Pardon me?

	M:	What else can we think about?





	S:	I wanted to ask a question about, we kind of skipped through the turpentine— B:	Yeah, we did.

	S:	Plantations. Do you know much about the whole harvesting of the resin? M:	I would say pretty much so.

	S:	Then tell us a little bit about that in this area.



	M:	Your turpentine, they used to put these clay cups on the side of your pine trees, and they chipped them. They chipped the bark, and that would make the resin run off into these little cups. And they would gather these cups up, and they would bring it back to the still, and they would have to distill into getting the resin and turpentine separated. And from there, they loaded it mainly on trucks and hauled it to Jacksonville to be refined.

	S:	How did they get in and out into the woods together?



	M:	Mostly with wagons and horses. Or mules. And they had a wood driver, that rode behind all the chippers and the workers to see if they were—there wasn’t no use of stealing, because there wasn’t nothing to do with it when they did. So they turned it in but to see if they worked. This is one thing that these fires burn so much now, you’ll get a big fire. The turpentine people used to hole around all those pine trees, and then they would burn the woods theirself and keep that fuel from accumulating.

	S:	So they could get to the trees?



	M:	So they could get to the trees, yeah.



	S:	I wondered about that, because the snakes and things are so bad in the woods.





	M:	Well, I don’t know if they’re any worse now than they were then, but they hoed, kept those deeds clean, and they kept the woods burned. And that kept down the snakes, and the brush where they could get to the trees.

	B:	It sounds like Hawthorne had a lot of industry. There were beans, there were oranges, there were those turpentine. What else did I write down? There’s so much raw material here, but it sounds like it all got moved elsewhere to be processed.

	M:	Right. Oranges, your big oranges were West Putnam and up into the Melrose area. Now I’m not sure about Earleton, whether they tried to go over there or not. But a lot of those big pecan groves that you see was orange groves at one time. Because after the big freeze, they planted, a lot of them didn’t come back with their oranges.

	B:	I know Archer had a steel working place. M:	Steel mill. The Maddox Family.

	B:	Right. And that was kind of a way to keep the money in the community, so Archer prospered from having that. Was there ever a thought that Hawthorne needed some kind of production place? Like a factory or a mill?

	M:	Yeah but they were never able to get it. [Laughter] That’s what Billy keeps saying. We’ve been watching this thing for eighty years, and it still hasn’t happened. [Laughter] We get all these high-faluting ideas.

	B:	Well it had the mill.



	S:	Is the mine still working? M:	No.





S:   No, it’s not working?



M:  No, the Edgar Mine that’s about three miles west is. It’s still in operation. But the reason, that your Florida kaolin is pretty well gone down as you get through that book. You can take it and make copies of it if you want.

S:   I will.



	M:	But whenever you get into it, the stuff that’s made out of that Florida clay, it doesn’t take but very little of it. But it’s mixed in with the other clays to make the glaze on your porcelain. And spark plugs. That glaze comes from a small little amount of Florida clay. But I think now, they probably get the Georgia clay. See, that Washington County in Georgia around Macon is the Kaolin capital of the United States. There is five or six big clay mines in that area, and there is two or three different grades of clay, of Kaolin, within that better clay.

	B:	What’s the word, kil—? M:	Kaolin, they call it kaolin. B:	How do you spell that? M:	It’s in that book.

	B:	Okay. K-A



	M:	K-O



	S:	K-O-A-L-I-N



	B:	Oh, kaolin. Okay. And kaolin is like clay? M:	It is a clay.

	B:	Oh, it’s a type of clay. Okay.





	M:	It is a clay. It’s just called clay. But see, this Florida clay, you got so much sand in it. And to wash that sand out of it, it cost so much. It’s very expensive. Like back when I was in it, a ton of it—I’m basically just going to use a figure, which is not right, but I don’t know what the right figure is. You say this Florida clay was selling for twenty-five dollars a ton, but your Georgia clay would be selling for five, because you’ve to go through the process of washing that sand out of it.

And they pretty would tell you what that boat guy’s doing. But what they did, they dredged it out of the lake, made its own lake, and you run it through what they call a classifier and got the heavy sand out of it. Then they run it through another series a vats to get the formica, which is light, out of it. Then it goes into another set of vats and settles the clay out of the water and pump the clay into what they call a big presses and holds the clay and the water leaks out of it.

Then you got to dry it.



	B:	So where does all that silt go? Is it just sitting on the ground still?



	M:	Well, it used to. If you get it in the right pot of it at that clay mine, you’d bog up over your neck.

	B:	Oh god. That would scare me. It’s like instant quicksand.



	M:	Like quicksand. You see, formica is very fine. It looks like itty-bitty sheets. Little itty-bitty sheets and it sparkles. I don’t know what it’s good for.

	B:	It seems like countertops. There’s formica countertops or something like that.



You can polish it and I don’t know.



	S:	Is that the same stuff?



	M:	I don’t know. I don’t really know.





	B:	It doesn’t seem like it would be, you know.



	S:	Do you remember the Hawthorne Brick when they were making brick here? I keep hearing about Hawthorne Brick.

	M:	Okay.



	S:	Is that something from that same kind of clay? M:	No.

	S:	No?



	M:	What they’re calling the Hawthorne Brick is really the Campville Brick. There was a big brick yard in Campville. And the Campville Brick was made out of—I don’t know just how it was made. But it was sandy. It was a sandy brick, and it was a yellow brick, a soft brick. And they go into it and make a mud out of it. And then make a big long tray that shoots out a spout, and the wheel turns around and cuts it with a wire. Cuts that thing. Then it runs through the keels, and it takes about a week in the keels for it to get hard. They later had a brick mine, and they come in a brick mill out at the Edgar Plant. That’s West Putnam. And that was made out of clay, a red clay, so it made a hard brick. But it finally closed. I don’t know why it closed.

	S:	That’s not something that you remember. That was before your time?



	M:	No, I remember. But I don’t remember—I wasn’t here when it closed. It was during the time—it didn’t stay in operation but two or three years. The Cambia Brick stayed in operation a long time. Nearly all this brick you see around here that’s yellow was made at the almighty Camp Bill. It was. It came out the Camp Bill mine, but right now, what’s left of it is soft and sandy and you’re scared of it.





	B:	Yeah, it gonna start falling apart. Well, you said you tore down the Old Cleveland House. Could you tell us that story? Did you buy the house?

	M:	Okay.



	B:	Yeah, show us the pictures too.



M:  This is probably one of the best pictures. B:  You can hold it up for the camera to see. M:  It’s probably one of the best pictures.

B:  Yeah, that’s a good shot. S:  That’s a good shot.

	M:	But the Old Cleveland House was built by Zam Burkstresser. And at that time, it was called a central house, and it was probably built—Francis Moore and I could figure around 1890. Give or take a year or so. And it was run by Miss Sophie Burkstresser, his widow. And she later sold it to—I got maybe, and I’m not sure, owned by Jim Hamlin. And it was named the Cleveland House, and it was the whole big hotel, two stories, and it had the widow’s walk on it. Later on, Cearncy,

H.H. Cearncy bought it and lived in it. And some guy bought it and borrowed money from the bank and couldn’t pay for it, and he all but destroyed it.

	B:	Oh. Meaning it just went into disrepair?



	M:	Yeah. Cut the wire and everything else. Finally, I don’t remember when I bought it. Probably around 1970, [19]73, somewhere along there. And when I bought it, I was—intention was going to fix up and sell it. Remodel it and sell it. But I got to looking into it, and I thought about getting a federal grant to help me on it, but they told me what I had to do and what I couldn’t do. And I said, “No, you ain’t





going to tell me nothing.” So I didn’t go with the public, go with the grant. I guess I’m too independent. But anyway, I went and bought that laundromat, which I dropped eighty-two thousand dollars in, because we didn’t have a sewer system, we had to have our own filter bed, which never paid. I couldn’t run enough water through it to make it profitable. I couldn’t sell it, because I didn’t have a marketable thing to sell. So finally when Hawthorne put in their sewer system, the moment I hooked on to it, the day I put it on the market, a year later I took what little bit I could get out of it and never looked back. But that’s the reason I didn’t redo the Cleveland House. Over that time, I got scared, because nobody living in it, I couldn’t get insurance. I couldn’t get liability, couldn’t get fire. And old Jane Siegel kept on, I tried to get her to help me sell it. All she wanted to do was remodel it. So I jerked it off the market and tore it down. I said that I’ll get more out of just the property than I will the house. I think I got a thousand dollars for the lumber that was good in it.

	S:	When did you tear it down?



	M:	I guess probably about fifteen years ago. S:	Oh really?

	M:	And I sold that little arm that was attached to it off, and then I sold that other piece where Marshy put up her medical center. I sold that to her. I thought about putting a move in and putting a laundromat down there. But I got into looking into that laundromat, what it would cost to put a laundromat on it. And by the time I got through permitting, them telling me what I could do and what I couldn’t do, I would have spent at least fifteen thousand dollars. I said, “It would take a lot of





quarters to get that back.” So I give up that idea. [Laughter] This fella, I forget his name, decided he wanted to put a laundromat on it. I told him how he could do it. But anyway, he come up with the money, with the green money. So we exchanged the deed for the money, and I got out of it. But I got scared of it, because of the liability. Homeless going in and sleeping. If it ever set that thing on fire, Hawthorne would have went with all of their fire department.

	B:	So were people upset with you for tearing down a historic building or did they understand?

	M:	Nobody, but Jane Siegel. [Laughter] B:	Because she wanted to restore it?

	M:	I didn’t worry about her.



	B:	Well, how much was she willing to pay for keep the building?



	M:	Nothing because she wanted you to do it. [Laughter] She wanted you to sit.



	B:	Maybe she could have done all the paperwork you had to do, I guess. I don’t know.

	M:	But anyway, that’s pretty well the story. And it was an old time hotel, here in Hawthorne for years.

	B:	And Miss Moore’s place across the street was an old hotel also. M:	It’s older.

	B:	Okay.



	M:	I don’t know how much older, but I know it’s older.



	B:	So they would have been competitors back in the day.





	M:	Yeah. And the Burkstressers—I think this man’s brother, I’ve got in at my desk tray—but I think this man’s brother—you know where Ida King Mildon lives?

	B:	Um-hm.



	M:	Alright. That was the old Burkstresser house. And that little store building right up in front was the post office for years and years and years. And Mr. Burkstresser was the one that run that post office, and when he died, his daughter Nana took over the post office. And when she died, Lester Shirouse took over the post office, and then Bill Becker took it over later. And then they built this new one up here.

	S:	So all that time, it was in that house. M:	Yeah.

	S:	And people lived in the house, but they weren’t necessarily…



M:  They lived upstairs. Burkstresser lived upstairs and the post office downstairs. S:   It’s so odd the way it’s built over the sidewalk.

M:  Yeah. If you look down on the ground on one of those—there’s is a ring where that concrete is chipped, this wire that fell during the [19]35 storm that charred that concrete.

B:   Wait, what fell?



	M:	Piece of electric wire. B:	Oh.

S:   Is it built out on the street like that because that was the entry to the post office? M:   Yeah, that was the entry to the post office.

S:   So that kind of made a cover over where you went in.





	M:	And that whole section below the post office, south of it, was a big dry cleaner store in it. A big fish market in it.

	S:	Really?



	M:	And where the bank’s at was many share houses, little clothing store. S:	Oh, that’s interesting. Do you have a question?

	M:	Let’s see, what else?



	B:	Yeah, I’m trying. I think we got everything I had written down to ask.



	S:	I have one that might be a closer, but I don’t know. You know you’ll get a copy of this. So are there any words of advice you’d like to pass on to future generations? Just any one or people in your family.

	M:	I think the growth of Hawthorne was a wishful dream. [Laughter] I’ll tell you why. Dolores asked me several times why Hawthorne won’t grow. Hawthorne is on a main, fast highway from Tampa to Jacksonville. There’s nothing here to stop them. Nothing at all even slow them down. It’s not far enough for an overnight from Tampa. In fact, overnight is Tampa to Jacksonville. You got Highway 20, it’s direct from Gainesville to Palatka. What is there here to stop them except when they had the speed trap? [Laughter] These people work. The people around these lakes work. They don’t find work in Hawthorne. They’ve got to go away.

Why should they drive by a Publix to come over here to stop at Hitchcock. Now Hitchcock gets a lot of business, but you’re not going to make these people change their mind about that. Alright. It’s got no direct route to the university, and you hit Waldo again, you don’t see anything developing south of the overpass, do you? It’s north of the overpass. Waldo has got a motel there that’s a stopping





place that’s only fifteen miles to the university. Your business people, normally, a lot of them would like to stop in a smaller place and go in to do their business the next day. To get out of the bustle of town. We got nothing here to make them come through here for them.

	B:	So tourism’s definitely not the way to go, but maybe if there were still beans and turpentine and things having a refinery or something here might be an option.

And that would employ people as well.



	M:	Right.



	B:	But tourism’s definitely not the way to go.



	M:	But you haven’t got that, and you’re not going to get it. The oldest farm, a farm family here is the Brown family in Orange Heights. The rest of the farms are gone.

	S:	What happened to the turpentine? B:	Yeah.

	M:	I think they got so much synthetic stuff, they’re not using it like they used to. They used to use turpentine in everything almost. In paints, you name it. It had turpentine. Because they called it the naval stores, and they don’t use it like they used to anymore.

	S:	Turpentine is called naval stores?



	M:	Well, the naval stores is what handled turpentine. B:	Now they must use something else.

	M:	See they use something else. It’s cheaper. So they’re not going back to it. And so many of these woods around here now have gone to the paper people if they





couldn’t turpentine it. Well, the turpentine people sold the land to the paper people, because they bought land to start with, like I say, for three and four dollars an acre. But it didn’t take long before they caught on.

	B:	I didn’t ask you what your wife was doing while—I mean it was before you guys were married—but what was she doing during the war? Did she have to go to work?

	M:	I guess. Well, I didn’t know her then. I guess she worked in her mama’s grocery store in Cross City.

	B:	So she learned all the accounting skills she needed. What does she do now? M:	Nothing.

	B:	Retired. Yeah.



	M:	Retired. [Laughter] B:	Good, good.

	M:	Well, she taught school for thirty-six years.



	B:	Oh, okay. Okay. Was that elementary school or what year?



	M:	She taught high school, and then when Robert and Frank were born, she stayed home with them. The last year before Frank went to school she went back to work. Substitute in grammar school, and she stayed in elementary right after that.

	S:	Here in Hawthorne?



	M:	Well, when integration started and they moved from the regular school to Shell, they were going to move her, so she wouldn’t go to Shell. She went to Gainesville to Rollins. Stayed at Rollins, but she retired from Rollins.

	B:	Oh, okay. So she commuted to Gainesville every day.





	M:	Yeah.



	B:	Oh my gosh. And that was because she didn’t want to go to an integrated school?

	M:	Right.



	B:	Okay.



	M:	Frankly, that is right.



	B:	Yeah. Well, that is an interesting story. M:	Absolutely right.

	B:	So Rollins was still a segregated school back then? M:	No, no. It was integrated but not like Hawthorne was. B:	Oh, okay.

	M:	See, Hawthorne’s always been close to fifty-fifty. Anywhere you went was fifty- fifty, because of the farm. It was a big farming area. In turpentine, see they used a lot of Black folks in the turpentine. And there was quite a few at the clay mine, but most of the ones in the clay mines lived in the sand hills. I knew all of them.

	B:	So fifty-fifty would mean that the population here is just fifty-fifty anyway. M:	I’d say it’s close to fifty-fifty, right. I’d say it is close to fifty-fifty.

	B:	And it’s probably more White in Gainesville? Is that right? More White people than Black people in Gainesville?

	M:	Yeah. Yeah.



	B:	And I also meant to ask you when you were talking about your house, where did Cassie live in the house? Did she have her own room?

	M:	She had her own house.







B:

Oh, it was her own house on y’all’s property.

M:

No, she had it on her property.

B:

Was it near your house?

M:

About two miles. She walked back and forth every day.

B:

Wow. You said she was a heavier lady.

M:

She made me look little. [Laughter]

B:

It makes you wonder how she didn’t lose weight walking in this heat. My



goodness.

M:

Shoot, I don’t think all that makes any difference.

B:

No it doesn’t. Wrangling children I would think would make you lose a lot of



weight too, because kids are crazy. My goodness. Well, let me get a little bit of



biographical information. You lived in McMeekin until?

M:

We moved into Hawthorne about [19]52 or [19]53. I don’t remember which.

B:

And then you lived here from [19]53 to when you went to the war?

M:

Yup.

B:

So that was like [19]40?

M:

That was me.

B:

[19]46.

M:

I went to the war in [19]56.

B:

In [19]56?

M:

[19]46. [19]46. See, I had two young’ns in [19]56. [Laughter]

B:

And then Missouri, Italy, Korea until?

M:

[19]51.





	B:	So [19]51 and then you came back to Hawthorne?



	M:	I came back. I went back to Missouri one year, but I couldn’t hack it when I went back.

	B:	Couldn’t hack it? What was different about it? M:	I was too nervous.

	B:	Nervous?



M:  Just like you say, I was too shaky. I couldn’t sit still long enough. I was ready to settle down for a full-time, and I was just sitting to go back. I would have liked a year and a half of a civil engineer’s degree.

B:  Oh really? And that was because you went to school in Missouri and almost finished the degree but then went to Korea?

M:   Yeah.



	B:	Oh, okay. So when guys come back from the war, is there any kind of program that you can kind of go through to work out some issues that you built up?

	M:	I think they got some programs now. Of course when I got out, you was on your own.

	B:	Wow. So did you ever talk to a doctor about anything you did? Things that you aren’t comfortable with or readjusting or anything?

	M:	I stay away from doctors. [Laughter]



B:   Like it’s nothing you can’t handle yourself.



M:  I tell him, my doctor, about three years ago. I said, “Don’t you be setting me up on these appointments. You’re making going to the doctor my recreation.”







B:

Yeah. And then your education history. Where did you graduate from high



school?

M:

Here.

B:

What’s the name of the high school here?

M:

Hawthorne High School.

B:

And you graduated in?

M:

[19]46.

B:

[19]46. And you finished the whole degree? Graduated twelfth grade?

M:

Oh yeah.

B:

Okay. Then you stuck around here, went to the Missouri School of Mines?

M:

For two years.

B:

Okay. And that was what years?

M:

I would say [19]48 and [19]49. Then I went back.

B:

And you did two years of civil engineering.

M:

Then I went back one year after I got back from Korea.

B:

So that would have [19]51? [19]50 to [19]51?

M:

Well, if I got out in [19]51probably spring of [19]52. Well I didn’t get back in time



to go in [19]51.

B:

And that was it for education?

M:

That was it, yeah.

B:

Did you ever think about going to UF for civil engineering?

M:

No. No.





	B:	You’re like, I am done with that. Let me make sure I got everything on here. So your principal occupation was retail?

	M:	Retail sales, and mining.



	B:	Yeah. So where did you actually retire from? From Standard Oil?



	M:	Here. I was living here when I was working out of Jacksonville. We was assigned working out of Jacksonville was the home office. But we was assigned different territories, and I milked this one dry. [Laughter]

	M:	I did. I literally milked it dry, because their motto was you stayed in one territory three to four years and then you got transferred. Well, I was lucky enough that I’d drop this county and pick up this one. And I guess that county does a transfer, and I turned down Fort Lauderdale. Point blank.

	B:	Oh okay. Why?



	M:	I’m glad I did. I wouldn’t have went to Fort Lauderdale for the whole company. B:	Why? Is it too big?

	M:	I couldn’t live there.



	B:	Oh, you couldn’t live there. So did you live in Jacksonville then or did you? M:	I lived here.

	B:	Okay, and just commuted for the week.



	M:	Right. Well, I might go four months and never go to Jacksonville. But I turned down assistant city sales manager for the city of Fort Lauderdale. I knew then I was writing my ticket. A big company, you don’t turn them down very often.

	B:	Right.





	M:	But like I said, I’m glad I did, because when they made their big lay-off, it was either [19]73 or [19]72 or [19]73. I don’t remember which, but when they did their big lay-off, that job was completely abolished. They got fifty-two of us at one time.

	B:	So did you technically retire or you got laid off and then had to find another job? M:	I got laid off and had to find another work.

	B:	What year was that?



	M:	It was either [19]73 or [19]72. I don’t remember. [19]73 is close is enough. B:	And then so what did you do after that?

	M:	Bought a fence company. Worked a fence company. And that stupid laundromat went to the sheriff’s department. [Laughter] I’d be at least eighty thousand dollars better off.

	S:	Is that the one over on Hawthorne Road?



	M:	No, that one on Hawthorne Road is Sydney Martin. Ain’t no way that I’d have worked for Sydney Martin.

	S:	Where was yours? Where was yours? M:	Shopping center.

	S:	Oh, it’s that one over there.



	M:	The one in the shopping center.



	B:	So you kind of followed in the footsteps of your parents, great-grandparents, and grandparents in owning businesses and looking to business as a way to earn a living.





	M:	Yeah. Margaret stayed at the school for thirty-six years. We retired. While, I settled that laundromat in [19]97. And don’t ask me how many cruises I’ve been on since. [Laughter]

	B:	Nice.



	M:	I got more days on the carpet than I did in the army now.



	B:	So how long did you own the fence company? When did you buy it? M:	I sold it in [19]92. I think I bought it in probably [19]75.

	B:	And then when did you buy the laundromat? M:	[19]85, I think it was. I had it about ten years.

	B:	Did you say you worked in the clay mines in Georgia for a while or was it always here?

	M:	Florida and Georgia, I worked both.



	B:	And then organizational membership. Did you ever join a union? You’re in the Masonic?

	M:	Yeah.



	B:	And is it called Freemasons? M:	Freemasons.

	B:	And then you’ve been a member of them for—?



	M:	Right now it’s called Inamakan Lodge Number 103 F and AM. That’s Free and Accepted Masons. And I get my sixty year pin in July.

	B:	Whoa. So that would mean that you’ve been there since 1950. So that’s a big award, isn’t it?

	M:	Yeah.





	B:	Wow, okay.



	M:	And I have been a Shriner. I got my fifty year pin in November. So back up fifty years.

	B:	I thought the Shriners were Freemasons. Am I getting those confused? M:	No.

	B:	They’re different?



	M:	No. Freemason is one and the Shriners is the Shriners, but you’ve got to be a Freemason in order to be a Shriner.

	B:	Oh, okay. And did you ever join a union or anything like that? M:	No.

	B:	Never a union. Community organization like the Hawthorne Historical Society? S:	This is gonna take a while.

	M:	American Legion.



	B:	Okay, and how long have you been with them?



	M:	Well, I joined in [19]47. I dropped out for thirty years and then rejoined. B:	Okay, so off and on for—

	M:	And I’m their finance officer. I’m also the treasurer of the Masonic Lodge. Also, treasurer of the Keystone Trying Club. And Lois is trying to get me to stay treasurer of, what do they call it now Minnie?

	S:	I don’t know. They changed the name.



	M:	Boy, I tell you what. We got to come up with a thousand dollars to do what’s got to be done.

	S:	That’s hard. It’s a lot of bake sales.





	B:	Car washes. Maybe you can just write a grant to something. S:	That might be possible.

	M:	Well, can you do it before you get—see, that’s the trouble with it. We’re trying to get on that grant stuff, but you got to get incorporated in order to get—I didn’t know this until this morning. In order to get tax-exempt sheets, you’ve got to be incorporated. Then you’ve got to get your federal ID number. Then you go in shooting for your tax-exempt, and if you don’t have your tax-exempt, a person donating cannot take it as a charitable gift. How are we going to get donation?

	B:	To get the exemption number.



	M:	To get to the thousand dollars, right. S:	Then you have to get your 501c3.

	B:	Oh goodness.



	S:	It’s hard.



	M:	Is that what they call it? I can’t— B:	Yeah, a 501c3.

	M:	This is our new RS law that went into effect since that 9/11. It’s a headache. S:	Is it? You have more? You have more?

	B:	Let’s see. Oh yeah. Let me get your children’s names. M:	Okay. Frank Thomas McMeekin.

	B:	And what was his birthday? [Laughter] M:	[19]56. June 21, 1956.

	B:	Ooh. His birthday is coming up. M:	Yeah. Quick.







B:

You got twenty days. And he was born in Hawthorne?

M:

He was born in Hawthorne.

B:

Okay. Does he still live here?

M:

Lives in Lake Geneva.

B:

Okay. What does he do?

M:

Delivers mail.

B:

Okay. That’s a good profession. And what was your other? You had two sons,



right?

M:

Yeah.

B:

Okay.

M:

Robert Jefferson. Make it Roberson J. McMeekin.

B:

Okay.

M:

He was born July 20, 1954.

B:

Really? So you’ve got one on June 21st and one on July 20th?

M:

But he’s dead.

B:

Oh no.

M:

Cancer. Cancer in the pancreas. I think it was November 4, 1994. What’s thirty-



nine? Add thirty-nine on to…

B:

To fifty-four?

M:

On to fifty-four.

B:

It would have been [19]93.

M:

Okay, [19]93 then. I started to say [19]93 to start with.

B:

Was he married when he died?







M:



B:



M:



S:

No. Not Robert. [Laughter] Wasn’t that type, huh?

He didn’t sit still long enough. [Laughter]



Oh, pancreatic cancer.

B:

Yeah.

S:

That’s a tough one.

B:

Is Frank married?

M:

Not now.

B:

Did he get divorced?

M:

Yeah.

B:

Okay, fair enough. And did you have any grandchildren?

M:

Two.

B:

Two? Frank’s?

M:

Ryan. Yeah, they’re Frank’s. Ryan and Megan.

B:

Cool. But no great-grandchildren.

M:

No greats.

B:

When was Margaret born?

M:

1930. March 19, [19]30.

S:

Well you have a head for these days.

B:

Yeah, you do.

S:

It’s amazing.

M:

You know, I couldn’t learn history in school to save my life, because I couldn’t



remember none of the dates.







B:

But when they’re dates you’ve lived, it’s totally different. What was your father’s



name?

M:

Ellington Jefferson McMeekin. I was a junior.

B:

Oh okay. I need to put that down. And what was his date of birth? Do you know?

M:

June 27, 1897.

B:

Wow. And when did he die?

M:

Add seventy-nine on to that and you’ll get it. [Laughter]

B:

And he wasn’t from Tallassee. He’s from McMeekin.

M:

No, he was born here. McMeekin, yeah.

B:

And then your mom’s full name?

M:

Mary Emma Capell.

B:

E-M-M-A. And then how do you spell her last name? C-A.

M:

C-A-P-E-double L.

B:

Okay. Capell. And do you remember her birthdate?

M:

November 25, 1906.

B:

Okay. So she was a good bit younger than your father.

M:

Yeah.

B:

Nine years. Yeah. Do you remember her death date or how old she was when



she died?

M:

She was thirty-seven. She died March 10, 1944.

B:

1944. What did she die of?

M:

Coronary thrombosis.

B:

What’s that?





	M:	Heart.



	S:	Heart.



	M:	You get that, she don’t last. It’s a clot of blood that enters into the heart. B:	Is it genetic?

	M:	I don’t think so. I don’t know, but I made it almost eighty-three years. Can’t be too genetic. [Laughter]

	B:	Yeah, right exactly. Can’t be too genetic. What was it like? She died when you were in school?

	M:	Sixteen.



	B:	Yeah. Was it traumatic?



	M:	I would say so, because we were a very close family. B:	And then your brother died not too long after that, huh?

	M:	No, he died quite a bit after that. He died in [19]5…what did I give you? I gave you [19]56. [19]54. He died in [19]54.

	B:	Yeah, October 22, 1954. S:	So twelve years after.

	B:	So was she in the hospital in Gainesville for a while? M:	No.

	B:	She just stayed at home?



	M:	She had heart trouble or something, and I don’t remember just what it was. I think she was in St. Augustine. She was at the—not the Flagler hospital—East Coast. So East Coast was still in operation. She had come home and was still





out at Granny’s. And she died out at Granny’s. And I sleep in the bed she died in every night.

	B:	Does it make you think about her? M:	No, that don’t make me.

	B:	Not anymore, huh? [Laughter] B:	Maybe at first.

	M:	That don’t bother me.



	B:	And she was born in McMeekin? No, no, no. M:	She was born in—

	B:	Cross City?



	M:	Grove Park.



	B:	Grove Park?



	M:	That was my mother, now.



	B:	Right, your wife was born in Cross City.



	M:	My wife was in Cross City. She was born in Grove Park in the old house you hear Searnchies talk about so much. That one they want to preserve. They ain’t got nothing there, and it’s a waste of our tax money to fool with it. She was born in that house and so was her youngest brother.

	B:	Oh wow.



	S:	And her name was Capell? M:	Yea. C-A-P-E-double L.

	S:	Were they in the turpentine business?





	M:	No. No. He was a railroad engineer. Wait a minute. I got to think of it. I can tell you. He was a railroad engineer that run the long trains out of the Newman’s Lake area back in that area of time. And I think from there he went to—where was it he was supposed to have gone to? But he didn’t stay. He come back, and he was a farmer. He grew cotton.

	S:	In Grove Park?



	M:	I don’t know just where he grew, but he owned that field at one time. Right across from where the fire station—see the fire station where the ice plant used to be. If you can find it, and I’ve got it somewhere if I can find it, a big article on that ice plant that my brother-in-law—he dug in all this geology stuff like crazy. And if I can find it, there’s a big article he wrote on that ice plant.

	B:	Yeah. See there’s a Hawthorne industry. S:	Yeah, making ice.

	M:	See it’s gone.



S:  Yeah, the ice, the oranges, the turpentine, the bricks, the mine. M:  Yeah, the mine. That would have been considered Hawthorne. B:  Right.

	M:	Because see, it was on the Hawthorne mail route. Now the Edgar Mines, not. The old Hawthorne mail ride chopped off. I guess it chopped off, I don’t know whether they come up through Johnson or not, but I think it did. But they had a post office in Johnson at one time.

	S:	Like the hotel?



	M:	But the route still went out through the sand hills.





	S:	That’s what you call that area out there kind of southeast of Hawthorne over there.

	M:	Yeah. Sand hills.



	S:	Where the lakes are. M:	Yeah, sand hills.

	S:	It is sandy out there.



	B:	I think I’m almost done. I just want to make sure I get your brothers’ and sister’s names. I got Joe.

	M:	Okay, Frank was my brother.



	B:	Oh, okay. Is that who your son’s named after? M:	Yeah.

	B:	Aww. That’s sweet. And your sister? M:	Julia.

	B:	Julia. And did you remember their dates of birth? I got Frank might have been born in [19]30 or [19]31.

	S:	Excuse me.



	M:	Frank was born in [19]30. August 22, 1930. B:	And Julia?

	M:	Julia was born March 7, 1929. Joe was born February 22, [19]39, I believe. I believe it was [19]39.

	B:	Okay. Julia and Joe are still around?



	M:	Yeah. Because they’re just shy eleven years younger than I am. B:	Okay. And everybody was born in McMeekin?





	M:	Yeah.



	B:	I think that’s really cool to be able to say you’re from the town that has your last name.

	S:	Yeah.



	M:	But it’s in the GPS. S:	It is?

	M:	You flock the GPS on. B:	That’s cool.

	M:	On the GPS, McMeekin is listed.



	B:	McMeekin, Florida. That’s cool. I think I got everything. M:	I was surprised too.

	S:	Do you have any parting words of wisdom for us? [Laughter]



	B:	Or any stories we didn’t ask about? I don’t know if there’s anything left.



	M:	Oh no we don’t. Oh yes. You didn’t mention the railroads. I’m going to tell you who to interview. Interview Bobby Marson.

	S:	I’ve got his name. B:	Okay.

	M:	You got his name? Alright, he can fill you in where I can’t, but I’ll give you some things to ask him about.

	S:	Okay, great.



	M:	He is one of these persons that loves railroad history. The original railroad through here was called the Pennsylvania Railroad. And you know the big curve, where it makes the big curve in Hawthorne? The old original line went straight.





What we used to call the OId Tram Trail. But across the Lochloosa Creek, just about where that road is at right now. From what I’ve read, they were going to cross there and go back into those orange groves and go into Ocala. That was back in about the mid-1800s. There was something, and it could have been the Civil War that’s changed it. Something that changed it and the Seaboard bought it. And they made the curve and made the decision to go through Lochloosa to Lochloosa Valley, and the prairie would be cheaper than the other route.

Because it was going to hit that big muck farm on the other route. And it’s a four percent grade coming out of Lochloosa to Hawthorne. And at that time, the Florida Southern was building the other railroad, where the Interlachen is at. At that time, whoever could get to the railroad first was the one had the right of way. Seaboard saw that they could not make it. So they run down there and put one rail across where the right of way was going to go. Well the Florida Southern come in on the weekend, got hold of that piece of track, and drug it out the way, and put their track on the cross.

	B:	Oh.



	M:	That’s why that that crossing is named Grabon. B:	Oh.

	S:	I always wondered why.



	M:	That’s why it’s named Grabon. S:	I was wondering that.

	M:	There was a big depot. And I remember the depot. It was in the northeast section of that quadrant. And that was where all the control towers was at. And there was





several, I say several, I know two or three, train wrecks at that intersection. And the tale goes that—that give the Southern the main right of way. And the tale goes that the other one would run its engine up on the track and make the other train turn over. But Bobby has got, and if he don’t have, I can get it. I’ve got it somewhere, a picture of one of those train engines in that depot.

	B:	Wow. So was Hawthorne a railroad town?



	M:	Make Bobby get that stuff out for you, because he’s really gone into it. And he can correct everything that I’ve told you that’s wrong.

	S:	Okay. We have him on the list.



	M:	But the principal of it, I can tell you. Alright, you know where that street goes into and crosses the railroad track where the old bank was at? At Ace Hardware? The Main Jesus Springs road? From that crossing to the firehouse, the railroad owns only from the cross ties.

	S:	Oh really?



	M:	That’s all they own. From the Interlachen back behind my property, all that railroad owns is the cross ties. They’d come in back years ago when that was put in, and the railroad was coming through, and the landowner refused to let them cross his land. They’d go in on Saturday and Sunday, run that track across his land, and if he could get across it, it was theirs. The courts would rule in the railroad’s favor.

	S:	Oh really?



	B:	Oh wow.





	M:	I got that in my abstract. If you go to my piece of property in the Interlachen where I’m at, I own the bottom of the ditch. That’s considered the cross ties, but there’s a big jog in that fence, and that’s why all they own was the cross ties. But when they got past me, they owned the one hundred and twenty foot right of way. And when the state come in with its Rails-to-Trails and surveyed it, they surveyed it out, and I got a twenty-foot gap.

	B:	Oh, to the cross ties. M:	To the cross ties, right. B:	That’s funny.

	S:	So you back right up to the trail.



	M:	Yeah, I’m backed right up to the trail. B:	Yeah, how weird is that?

	M:	That’s where that got cross ties.



	S:	That’s an extra story. That’s good. We’re ready to talk to Mr. Morrison. M:	But Bobby can fill you in on that, because he’s a real railroad fanatic. S:	Okay.

	B:	Well, this has been so much fun. We thank you so much for spending so much— you’ve been here for three hours.

	S:	Yeah, you have.



	B:	Two hours and fifty-six minutes. S:	You must be getting hungry.

	B:	Yeah. I just couldn’t stop. I was having so much fun listening to all the stories and your awesome history around here.





	S:	Could you push this button and turn that off? B:	Sure. Do you want say bye?

	S:	Do you want to say bye? M:	Bye. [Laughter]

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:  Derick Gomez February 6, 2015 Audit edited by:  Anupa Kotipoyina May 12, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019