AAHP 386; Rackard; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 386 David Rackard African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Justin Hosbey and Ryan Morini on August 4, 2015 2 hours, 5 minutes | 67 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 386

Interviewee: David Rackard

Interviewer: Justin Hosbey and Ryan Morini Date: August 4, 2015



	M:	Okay.



	R:	But, what happened is, we were demonstrating in Atlanta, and we came home for the summer, and we were sitting in front of this grocery store. It was a store here on Broadway run by a White guy. Right up the street across from Covenant, where we started the Movement, it was another grocery store run by a Black guy. So we called one store “White David’s” and one store “Colored David’s.” That’s what they called them, you know, to differentiate. So what we were doing, we were just sitting in front of White David’s one night. Say, “You know what? We ought to do something. We doing it in Atlanta; we ought to go ahead and do something here.” You know, that’s how it started. And we looked for people to keep it going, because we knew we had to go back to school. We checked people; no one wanted to do it. And to be honest with you, now, they got, they have somewhat been, I had to tell Reverend Pinkston’s brother that—and he’d been saying for a long his brother started the Movement. “My brother started the Movement in Ocala.” Didn’t happen that way. What happened is—and don’t, I don’t take anything away from Reverend Pinkston, he’s a good guy—he was the only one that agreed to keep it going after we left. But I just had to set his brother straight, talking about “he started it!” No, he didn’t start the Movement in Ocala.

He continued it forwards. You know, I give him his credits, though. He’s a good guy, he helped us out. But—

	H:	So who started the movement? Was it you three, or—?



	R:	It was three guys: Charles Washington, Dorsey Miller, and myself.





	H:	Okay, and you were at Clark up in Alabama.



	R:	I was at Clark, and Dorsey was right close, went to Morehouse. H:	In Morehouse, okay.

	R:	And Charles Washington was at the Hampton College, they call it “community college”—it was Hampton Junior College at that time.

	H:	Okay. In Virginia?



	R:	No, no. He was right there in Ocala. H:	Ocala, okay.

	R:	At Hampton Community—it was Hampton Junior College then, there in Ocala. You know, in fact, they tried to get Dorsey Miller to go there, because—see, we say, “Why we want to go? It was attached to the high school!” The principal, “Uh, they, uh—” I said, “Why would I want to go to a college where all I got to do is take my transcript and fly it down, make a paper airplane and fly it down there? I said, “That’s crazy!” You know. But we went to Atlanta, we had a good time up there. Oh, man, we was going crazy.

	H:	But Mr. Rackard, can we introduce ourselves for the recorder right now? R:	Oh, oh, oh—sure.

	H:	Go ahead, Ryan.



	M:	Okay. So this is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. It’s August 4th, 2015. We’re here at the home of David Rackard in Tallahassee, Florida. I’m here with my colleague:

	H:	Justin Hosbey.



	M:	Yeah. And, so thank you for sitting down with us today.





	R:	You welcome.



	M:	So, usually we start by asking when the interviewee was born. So, when were you born?

	R:	When was I born? M:	Yeah.

	R:	August 3rd, 1943. M:	Okay. And—

	R:	Yesterday, I was seventy-two.



	M:	Wow. And so, were you born in Ocala? R:	Uh-huh.

	M:	Okay. Were you born in the hospital, or midwife, or what was the—?



	R:	Midwife. The same lady delivered—I think you spoke to Dorsey earlier?— delivered me.

	M:	Oh, okay!



	R:	Same lady.



	M:	Okay. So, do you know her name, or—?



	R:	Oh, it’s been so long! [Laughter] We used to, when we’d get together, we’d talk about it, it come up. Because he lived with practically all of us. It’ll come up. She was beautiful people. Oh, I can’t think of it right now. I could call Dorsey right quick and—you having problems okay?

	M:	You can try it, yeah.



	H:	You want to pause the recorder?



	M:	Yeah, that’s—it doesn’t matter too much, I mean—





	R:	[inaudible at 3:53]



	M:	Okay, yeah. Well, what you remembered was— R:	I think it was a Finley. Dorsey base it.

	M:	That sounds right. That sounds right.



	R:	Boy, look! It’s a baby! [Laughter] I think I will check and make sure that’s the correct lady. But I bet it was Miss Finley. But, like, we called her something like that.

	M:	Works like that sometimes.



	R:	Maybe you see what I’m saying, see this? [Shows his navel.] You know how the little kid go to the doctor to have a nice—look at mine here. She was definitely good!

	M:	Wow.



	R:	You know kids, it still be all hanging over? H:	Uh-huh. Right, right.

	R:	She was good! I bet y’all are, “That’s a crazy dude!” [Laughter] I like to have fun. H:	[Laughter] Yeah, it’s all right.

	R:	But go ahead.



	M:	Oh, yeah. That’s—so, she delivered a lot of the babies around that time? R:	Oh, yeah!

	M:	Did your family have access to a hospital, or—?



	R:	Well, during that time, they had, the main—you know, the big hospital for Whites.



And then they had a little two-story building next to it that Blacks went to. You know, and, my mother wasn’t going through that foolishness. So much Finley





people was against that time, just, but it Ms. Finley’s family come out and take care.

	M:	Did you interact with her much as you were growing up, or was she just kind of—



?



	R:	Oh, oh, oh, everyone always went by. Oh, no, everybody went by. Everyone knew Ms. Finley, everyone knew her.

	H:	So, I think, for us, you know, we’re really interested in not just the Movement; this is kind of, I think, your life history. So, we’re interested in you.

	R:	Okay.



H:  So feel free at any point to dive over into any kind of area of your life that you feel comfortable. Because I think sometimes people think that you came to talk about only the Movement. But this is really your oral history of your life!

R:   Oh, oh, oh, okay! I don’t want to, you know, just be talking about myself.



	H:	So then, but you were involved with the Movement, so of course we’re going to hear about it. But just, don’t feel like you have to limit your responses to any— just your whole life. This is your life history that we’re trying to really capture. So.

	M:	As well as Marion County, and wider—I mean, we can’t really understand the Movement unless we understand—

	R:	The general whole picture. M:	What’s going on.

	R:	Oh, okay.



	M:	Yeah. So, that’s also why we’ve also asked about how people were growing up. R:	I grew up—you’ve been to Ocala?





	M:	Mmhm.



	R:	I grew up about four blocks from the courthouse. M:	Okay!

	R:	There were Whites that lived around me. Let me tell you about what was crazy: I lived about three blocks from the White high school, but had to go two miles to Howard High School. In other dimensions, we were crazy. But that’s the way— yeah, that’s the way things was. But it was something. My wife lived on the west side of town. I walked miles out there to see her. Just to see her, I used to walk. You know. I just grew up in—it was crazy. Old Mr. Sloane was a painter. He was a White guy, he was a painter. Had about three daughters, real pretty girls. His wife ran off one day and never came back. And my mother was always somebody—you would come over to my mother for advice. And so, they’d come by, and the boys said he was a good guy, and a hell of a painter, but he would only work Monday through Thursday. Friday, Saturday, Sunday, he was on his stuff. But everyone knew that. He had his own business, and he was just a super guy. Mr. Sloane. Yeah. Y’all ask questions, I’ll—

	M:	Oh, sure, sure. Well, so you grew up—I mean, you grew up pretty close to downtown, then. Basically—

	R:	I was downtown!



	M:	Yeah.



	R:	I told you I was four blocks from the courthouse! Made the not to be downtown, I was right downtown. That area where I grew up, some people called it Sugarhill. But I don’t know, I don’t know how they came up with that. But I was, they had a





place—I don’t know if you old enough to remember they used to have Setzer’s Grocery? Setzer’s Grocery store, right out of Jacksonville. They had Setzer’s in Ocala. And during the Movement, we started boycotting some places. And someone wanted to boycott Setzer’s. I said, “Oh, you can’t do that! Oh, no!” Talked about just because they didn’t have any Black clerks. I said, “Oh, no!” I said, “Let me tell you something about Mr. Ford, let me give you some history. I said, “He’s a good man. Oh, no, now! We don’t treat everyone the same. If someone doing—” That guy was just a good guy. I used to, I was a little boy, would carry on in the store, run around in the store. He had people on the book— now, he eating a big couplet out of Jacksonville, he running the store for people, manager, and he let people have stuff on the book, trying to help them.

He wasn’t trying to take something for himself. I’ve seen him go into his pocket and help people! See, there were good people on both sides, now: don’t get me wrong, there were good people. And, so I spoke up. I said, “I’ll tell you what. I guarantee you this: I’ll speak to him in the morning, and I guarantee you he’ll be calling us to send somebody down.” That’s what he did. That’s just the type of guy he was. He was just straight-up. I remember him. Mr. Ford, that’s all I called him. Mr. Ford. Always wondered what happened to him. I’ve got to go check on him.

	H:	When’s the last time you been down to Ocala?



	R:	Oh, I went through there last Friday, when we went through, going, taking our granddaughter up to Hampton, Georgia, right up 75 up there. We were taking our granddaughter up there. We had to go quite often because my mom was in a





nursing home down there. She used to walk and run every day. That’s where I still get it from. Before I was doing it, she took me on her back. And she’s in a nursing home and has Alzheimer’s. And I didn’t realize you could live that long on a feeding tube, I really didn’t. Doctor told me as long as you getting them nutrients, whether you eat them yourself is almost part a million. You could live forever. I said, “She couldn’t be happy like that.” Doesn’t know who she is, or, I noticed, doesn’t know me. And I believe there comes a point where you cease to live, and start existing. Up to a point where I’d take me out; if I can’t go out there in the garage and drink my Budweiser, you know, in the afternoon? Take me out. I just—I mean, like this all day: [pantomimes being limp and unaware]. It’s just, it’s not good. Y’all ask questions, now. Don’t let me get on a tangent.

	H:	No, no, no, no, no. How many brothers and sisters do you have?



	R:	I have one brother, and he was five years behind me. Then I had five—I still have five sisters still living there in Ocala. Now, the theory was, my mother counted, I remember I heard it, because she kept up until she got sick. You know, I didn’t want to—you can’t do it. The doctor finally encouraged her, “Let it go.” But she did not want my mother going to a nurse home, but you can’t watch someone twenty-four hours a day. You can’t do it. You know? Now, she can’t remember her, because she was up there until the last minute. My uncle came down from Baltimore, and “She don’t know me,” I said, “Bobby! She not going know you.” Oh, he couldn’t believe his sister wasn’t going to know him. I said, “No, she’s not going know you.” So he walked in: “Hey!” She looked at him. “Who you?” [Laughter] Boy, look at that, that old boy was just, he was, “Oh, Lord have—” But





now, she can’t even speak. You know. Now. That, my uncle in Baltimore, Raymond Butler, Sr., one of my friends there, he was just like a daddy to all of us. It was a group of us, Dorsey, he was, like, our—his dad wasn’t home. The rest of our daddy was out, somewhere. But we all used to call him “Daddy Raymond.” And we learned about being a man from being around my uncles and them. Momma took my play out, was out a high school for the tournament when I was in fifth grade, he was going to send me to college, and he did. He was in school himself, tell me he going send me to school. Sent me to Clark College. And how he did on that teacher’s salary, I do not know. I don’t know. But he was a football star, good student. Bobby D was.

	H:	So, were you always kind of more of a scholar when you growing up, and not so much of an athlete? Or were you a scholar-athlete, or—?

	R:	We were good students. But young man say, Raymond Butler, Jr., and I got in high school, then we was in fifth grade. Can you picture being in the high school band in fifth grade? We started playing drums in third. And we got in the high school band in fifth. And we used to go down to Miami, that’s when they had the class there in Miami, that you see in Atlanta now. And people talk, “Look at those midgets!” It took us a long time to grow anyway. We should have been taller than we were, but I just found more job after ninth grade. But, we were down there, we used to be playing stuff; they say, “Look at”—they’d call you “midgets”—“Look at that midget playing the big drum!” We had to laugh; there were no midgets. [Laughter] We was just little. Of course, we was in elementary school. They thought we were in high school; we were in elementary school. You know. But





we made the Honor Roll, Joyce and all the other ones were on the Honor Roll, and—we did crazy stuff, though. Like, we was talking the other day: every Sunday night—y’all may not want to put this in there—every Sunday night, which was crazy during these times, we were chasing White people. Every Sunday night. They would come down to the Harn Music Guest, just for howls, just chase people. Can you picture doing that back in the [19]60s? [Laughter] And that’s why I’m saying, it was some good people on both. I know people could have hurt us. One night—you know where 27 and 441 meet?

	H:	Yeah, mmhm.



	R:	Right across the street there, the guy used to have an open food stand. We drove up one side, drove up to his counter in the car. Just drove right into the place, right up to the counter. It was truly bananas. That man reached down and pulled out a shotgun—we backed out, took off, going to Gainesville, going north over that bridge in the southbound lane. [Laughter] So, you know, we had to be insane. We were just crazy. We had some fun, though. It was good times.

	H:	So you mentioned, we need to kind of think about, there were good people on both sides. So, just you growing up, and your experiences before you left to go to college, how would you characterize the race relations in Ocala?

	R:	Man, Ocala… It’s just like other places. I just never saw people, you know, really, just, that hate thing. I just never saw that. Now, we couldn’t go into some places, but let me tell you what was funny: we could go in places to eat and all that, all they going, what was real crazy: when we started this movement thing, and they had—oh, what’s the name of that place? It was a big restaurant down there on





441. The Brahmin! We went in the Brahmin one night, and they were going serve. We had no money, we had to get—! [Laughter] They were going serve— they called our hand! “Have a seat!” We say, “Oh, shoot!” Man, we didn’t have two dollars between us! We had to have it blur! After we parted the air to there, we got up out of there. But it—when I say there were good people on both sides, I just knew, I’m trying to think of someone—just super people come by and check on, I don’t know, I’d be on the way to a football game, and people smiled at me—they called me “Sonny,” because that’s what my mom always called me, “Sonny.” And old Mr. Belando, he owned the cleaner’s right up the street from me. Sometimes, he wouldn’t even charge me for, you know, clean my suit. Or they see me on the way to a uniform, or going to a game, and they said, “Take this, you know you may need some!” Just good people, man, huh? Those people talking about hate—hate is a strong word to me. I may dislike your actions, but I don’t hate anyone. And I’ll tell you just what I think, and once I tell you how I feel, I’m finished with it. I don’t hold any grudges. When I retired from the state, I was teaching over there in Quincy, and this lady said something, and I told her, I looked real straight on—she came back, and I said, “Ma’am, what are you talking about? I’ve forgotten. I told you; let’s move on. I forgot about that!” You know. I don’t hold on to that kind of stuff. But I’m looking to, I’m thinking of going back over there, because I’m sick of doing nothing. I’ve got to find me something to do. Everything I did, my system I was all ready to do. You know what I’m talking about? I don’t—I think retirement is overbuilt. I mean overplayed. I—

	H:	It’s overrated?





	R:	Yeah. I just don’t… I don’t see how people don’t do anything. M:	It sounds like you were involved with a lot of stuff from day one.

	R:	You know, I don’t feel—I’m seventy-two years, I don’t feel any different from when I was twenty-two. No different whatsoever.

	H:	So you were saying you went to Howard Academy. For high school?



	R:	When we finished, it was Howard High. Now, we old, now, but not that old. [Laughter]

	H:	Okay. [Laughter]



	R:	They had changed the name by the time we got in there. They had changed from Howard Academy to Howard High. They had changed names. I wasn’t at no Howard Academy.

	H:	And at that point, was it integrated, or—



	R:	No, no, no! They never integrated until we left. We left in [19]61. I think it wasn’t until [19]65, [19]60-something, they started integrating schools. Oh, no no, no no no no. No. When we left Howard in [19]61, it was still segregated. Yep. We used to get up in—we went over there—I don’t know why we would go over to the high, to Ocala High School. For some reason, we went over there for something one Saturday. And what really got us upset: they had a lab in the science room. Man, they had these, a microscope at each station. We go, “Wait a minute, now! We paying the same taxes,” and we had all these things, but we maybe had three. And we saying, “Why?” And we just start all kind of stuff—it’s just like that new library in Ocala. We were in high school. I’ll never forget they told us, “You better not go there—” We were crazy, man! “Y’all better not go down, you going





red.” I said, “Wooh.” We went down there, sat in there, and set up in there like we belonged there. Nobody said nothing. They had this turn thing: people started throwing them. But if you don’t try, what—?

	H:	Right.



	R:	No one said, “May I help you?” We got what we wanted. And we kept going. And would be guy later on say, “You know what, what about we weren’t supposed to graduate?” I used to bother our teachers too, now. [Laughter] And I did worse then as I said, but I won’t go into that. No, I was getting ready to say something else, but—but they had some strange—

	H:	Well, go ahead! Go ahead! Tell us!



	R:	They had some strange stuff there. [Section omitted at 20:23 at request of DR.] We used to push issues, too, even before we got to the Movement part. We just pushed issues. We were students, but we challenged people, too. We didn’t care where they were going. We challenged people. I know when I first got to Clark, guy said something so wrong, I mean, it was off the chain! So I said, “Sir, I beg to differ! That’s not correct!” “Ooh, he going flunk you!” I said, “He can’t flunk me! I could flunk me, but he can’t flunk me!” You know what that guy did? We became friends later. He was saying, he asked me to stay after class. And muss them up he said, “Why didn’t you wait until after class?” I said, “Then the entire class wouldn’t have benefitted. I knew you were wrong. I knew the right answer.” You know? We became good friends. But I tell you one thing: I had a professor there in religion/philosophy; he was so darn glad to get rid of me! Oh, man! It had religious things; I challenged him on everything. Other people in the class were





happy, because they didn’t have to study! Because when we did it between us, I’d be talking about, “Why?” You know, he’d say, I said, “Why?” Then I could hit him with something else. Man, that man said—“Here’s your A. See you!” [Laughter] Man, we—don’t let me go on.

	H:	Oh yeah, oh yeah, I wanted to—why did you choose Clark?



	R:	Well, my uncle had gone to Morris Brown. And Dorsey was talking about going to Morehouse. My girlfriend was going to Spelman, his girlfriend was going to Spelman. I was thinking about Morehouse until I saw it was—the campus at Clark was newer. I mean, Clark had kind of a—Morehouse was kind of run down at that time. I said, “Hm!” I walked across the street. I went to Clark. Walked across the street. And they were all good schools, you know. Of course, Morris Brown here has about two students, now. A lot of people want to give some money, but most of the church and they schools, sometimes, people steal the money. Not just everybody—fact of that there people stealing now. I saw a reverend, I said, [inaudible 22:44].

	M:	I was wondering: you said that you were always, as a group you were kind of challenging things. Did anything kind of bring that on, or were there any people who kind of fostered that in you, or was that—?

	R:	No, no. That’s just my nature. Even in the neighborhood, growing up, people would—my tone, too. See, sometimes my tone could come up. But a lot of persons get upset with me. Tell you, “That’s Miss Mabel’s, her son!” Because my tone would come out wrong sometimes. But I wouldn’t be disres[pectful], but my tone wouldn’t come out right. “Boy,” look at me, “what?” [Laughter] You know.





But I just always been outspoken, man. That’s why I didn’t stay in the military. They wanted to send me from Korea back to the States for OCS. I said, “Oh, no! No no no no. I can’t stay in here!” Because I knew, I may have ranked real fast, but I knew that as I was going, I couldn’t stay in the military. Oh, no, no! I did my time, made rank real fast, and got out. I just challenge people. You just can’t tell me—I can see something for me, talking about, you still can’t tell me nothing. No, unh-uh. I say, “Oh, no.” I look out on the top of them, and that grass is brown. “Really? The grass look green to me!” [Laughter] You know, I’m not a “Yes”- person. I don’t go along with everything. I know when I was working for a while for the state, before I retired there was a position available, and I said, “Hm, maybe it’s gold. I wanted a day to think about it. I’m going to go check this out.” I walked in there, and some people on the little committee knew me. The first question this lady ask me, talking about “Are you a team player?” And everybody knew me held their heads down. They knew I was fixing to go off. I said, “Ma’am, now, in today’s terms, today’s terms, that mean go along with anything. And I don’t. If you’re wrong, I tell you.” Of course, you know I didn’t get the job. [Laughter] I say, “If you wrong, I tell you you wrong.” You know, I’m not going sit there, “Yeah, yeah, yeah.” No, no. And even, I became one of the youngest state directors they had. And we were on a meeting, and they were trying to make a big thing of it. “Well, the first Black this, the”—I said, “Wait a minute. Why should I parsing this somebody before the meeting? Why should I be cradalair?” “Well, it don’t sure but I will have my chest.” I said, “Wait a minute! Now, I’m not going





out on TV talking about brag about it. I’d be looking real dumb!” That just the way I feel about it. It’s a guy here, a fraternity brother of mine—you in a frat?

	H:	No, I’m not. I’m not.



R:  Okay. You know, Dorsey became our—from Ocala, Florida—became the boss, was our national president. I guess that’s part of he moved, man. He worked hard to get there, too. Yeah, Ocala.

	H:	So you say, you were the leader of, was it the Head Start program? Or what was it? You said Head—?

	R:	Oh, no, no. I said I was the director of a marginally busy enterprise, I was the first director.

	H:	Oh, okay. Okay.



	R:	What happened, when I first got work with Sally, we were all industry. They wanted to expand to Florida. And then, U.S. Department of Commerce gave us a grant to start a office-manoitre business enterprise. And I wrote all the job descriptions and everything. And what happened is, I did that, I worked with the oil industry. And then, when we got that grant, they asked me if I wanted it, I said, “Yeah, I’ll take it! Do I want it?” But I’ll tell you, the other guy from New York— now, let me back up on this—he came from New York to head up the Department of Commerce. He came from New York. Joe Hennessey came from New York to head up the office of business enterprise. And I was a, I think I was a development rep too, at the time. And a senior development rep came up. But some politics were involved. It was a lady that came after me got the position.

So, everybody knew me, everybody in the office: “Dave, I know you’re upset!” I





said, “I pluck my work, my brother.” But they couldn’t believe how cool I was. To me. “She got promoted over you!” I said, “Hey, man. Sometimes, people do what they have to do.” They talking about, “Why, what?” They thought something was wrong with me. But see, the secretary had already called me up the other day.

Said, “Look Dave, I got to make a move or went. But we got this money coming down, you going to be the director of your own program.” So that’s why I was cool. When they hear that, boy, they want to knock me out! [Laughter] “Boy, they keep everybody locked here—I know you going be on this case.” “I told you I was.” “I know you going”— I said, “Hey, man. Sometimes things happen.”

	H:	You win some, you lose some.



	R:	Yeah, win some—and they looked at me, boy, when they heard, they wanted to hit me in the head. I said, “Hey, man.” Because it’s something wrong with them! The guy came right over, and test my arm, “You all right?” I said, “Hey, man, I can’t get upset about the small stuff!” Then, what happened is, that’s how she was—I was way— [Laughter] Last time I came up, she was came to see me then, I became director of my own program. So I said, “Oh, man!” They say came about, when they found out what was happening, say “No wonder you were so damn cool!” [Laughter] Hey, man!

	H:	[Laughter] You were strategic.



R:   Yeah, man. But he was cool. He say, “Look, Dave, I got to make this move.



Government want me to do this, I got to move her here. But we got this for you.” And I looked over there, I said, “Sir, move it on! I’ll wait.” And then I got a chance to do a lot of that extra traveling. Man, the State owes me nothing. I would take





business men on trade missions. Oh, man. Met some people. In fact, I was in one country, and another frat brother of mine I hadn’t seen in years. And I was getting ready to call his name. That’s why you don’t see any markers on me right now. And I tell people about this. And some people got frats tattooed on them, but not me. But, I get ready to call his name out, he says—it came out of the only said. “That’s no longer me, had to change my name. Had to disappear.” You can’t disappear with markers all over your body! You can’t disappear! I got a briefcase like this. I take it everywhere I go. Passport and everything in it. I can hop on any plane. [Laughter] I’m serious! I’m going take off. But you can’t do that with markers all over your body. You know. Every time I go cam the fat, I pull it up and trying to see the Q. I say, “Man, you ain’t going see nothing on my arm!

You crazy? I know I’m a Q, why would I”—people will brand it. No, no, not the Q! Well, I actually will wear it every day. Caps everywhere. I won’t put nothing on my body, but I can hear not here.

	H:	Were you a Q at the time you were involved with the movement down in Ocala?



Or had you pledged already at that point?



	R:	We was in the process. We was in the process for that. But I got so involved, I even put that off for a while. I really got involved in the Movement. You know, I got fully involved. I dropped out school for a while. I got serious. You know, and my uncle looked down, he say, “I know what you doing!” Let me tell you what happened: I got so involved, and today you had a fellow in Ocala, Dorsey and I went that night and another, that’s how Dorsey got drafted. They knew how to get rid of you, now. They knew how to get rid of you. They used to call us “outside





rabble-rousers,” and people for it—I said, “Man, I’m from right here in Ocala!” They talking about “outside rabble-rousers!” [Laughter] I’d be like, “What?” Say, “I don’t live but right down the street!” And then, I’m going tell you something about—what was I talking about?

	H:	When you first started the Movement, and you stopped school for a little bit?



	R:	Oh, oh, oh, oh, yeah. Yeah, I stopped school. I was into it. My uncle never argued with us. I said, “You know, I’m gonna finish this up.” He say, “Okay.” Man, when I came back from Korea and finished school, he came down from Baltimore, his chair was so big! [Laughter] But I finished with, you know, I got it. “I got to do this.” He just, he knew I was into it, man. And that’s why I see people now, just because they E-yoke or coordinators or something, Civil Rights—that don’t make you a Civil Rights leader! It doesn’t! You just over a program. And they have people here, they used to do—you know, these marches they do every year. They would come down, I said, “Man, now don’t do me like this! I was the real deal! And some of you wouldn’t have been there. You’d been scared afraid and hide.” I don’t play that, I don’t do it. They tried to get us, I want no part of that. We had actually—why do a reenactment when you been to the real, does that make sense? Huh? I marched with King, man! And it’s some ladies Ocala, kept all that stuff, man. Cheech been after me to pick that stuff all along. Yeah, King was teaching over at Morehouse at the time. And drove the ugliest [inaudible 32:36] I seen in my life. That, he didn’t care about his kids, but he didn’t care nothing about his son. But his kids, his—I just, his wife just turned me





off. They so money-hungry, they greedy, man! King had the ugliest green failed



sixty family and Ford I see in my life. But he must been… M:  Did you see him speak while you were up there?

R:  Did I—what kind of question you ask me? Did I see him speak? [Laughter] Now, what you mean? Oh, man, it was something though. Atlanta was different then. I liked Atlanta more then.

H:  I’m from Atlanta. R:  You’re—okay.

H:   Yeah, man.



R:  I liked Atlanta better then than I do now. I’m going tell you why: I’m going be very honest with you. You ever been to Quincy?

H:   No, I’ve driven through Quincy, never been to Quincy.



	R:	Okay, Quincy is almost Black-controlled now. Okay? Everything. I think Atlanta has gotten like that. I liked it when it was really more mixture. You got different ideas. I had a lady ask about chistonia, she say, “Rackard, you know, when we had a mixture of Whites and Blacks on the school board, we got a raise every year. Now, we get”—[Laughter] You know what I’m talking about? I think you just need a mixture of ideas, man. I don’t like that all Black, all White—I just don’t like it. You have a lot of people come from there now, it’s hard for them to deal with the diversity. It’s use to all Black. I know a young lady who came up and interned with my wife: she almost didn’t make it, but tied to the fence, took off and went home. She wasn’t used to—and I just—it was hard being round we want to teach. When you cross the Leon/Gadsden County line, it’s almost like you in a





Third-World country. Why don’t you try it sometime? I went over there. A frat brother told me, taught at Shakes Middle School. He was very serious. He said, “Brother Rackard, we’d rather go down, then let you outsiders tell us what to do.” I said, “What? You trying to tell me that if we have a good idea, because we live in Tallahassee you don’t want to hear it? How silly is that?” So I thought it was just him. Oh, no! Not just him: most people out there. Isn’t that silly? You said you from Atlanta.

	H:	I’m from Atlanta.



	R:	Atlanta different now. How old are you? H:	I’m 29.

	R:	Oh, shoot—you weren’t even born! I got shoes older than you, 29! Twenty-nine!



No, you weren’t born then. See, when I went over, oh, man. We used to work with people when they was running for office? That’s how we made our money. We were students.

	H:	Campaigning?



	R:	Oh, man! What’s the big boy that—goddamn! H:	Was it back—what year?

	R:	Oh, I’m talking about this [19]62, [19]63. He was a hell of a—, he ran for office.



We would go and campaign this guy, run crollier campaign, we just collect nothing but [inaudible at 35:54]. [Laughter] One of them was T.I.-something. “T.I., man! T.I., man! Give me that money!” They going run over there and—we were making money, man. We used to go, walk—you know where the Underground is now?





	H:	Yes, uh-huh.



	R:	I’ve known that when it was nothing but abandoned warehouse. That’s when I was there. And we would walk through that, walking downtown, and sell our books. And then come back. And my uncle: “Where your books?” “Books? Uh— they, we left them in Atlanta.” [Laughter] Time be fixing to, we couldn’t get there quick enough. To sell those books. How is downtown? You don’t hear too much about that now.

	H:	Yeah, downtown’s kind of dead now. The Underground is dead. They trying to revitalize it—

	R:	It was booming there at one time!



	H:	Yeah, it was, up until, like, the [19]90s, and then downtown, if you go downtown right now, it’ll be deserted at like 12:30am.

	R:	Where they go now?



	H:	People usually go up to Buckhead, you know? R:	Yeah, sure.

	H:	Yeah. Yeah. Midtown. R:	Yeah.

	H:	But they trying to revitalize downtown.



	R:	Y’all break in any time. I get carried away, y’all break in. You need some water or anything?

	M:	I’m good for now.





	H:	What can you tell me, Mr. Rackard, about—I want to hear, I’d like to hear more about when you decided to join the Movement, and what it was like for you in those initial moments of going to Ocala and mobilizing.

	R:	We were in Atlanta, and the students just—I don’t know what happened. All the campuses just got together, and they just got a meeting. And something, or something sparked—I don’t recall what it was. It was just something. It wasn’t, like, anything real major. But, it was being done all over the country. And they had a meeting one day, and we went. Spelman, Clark, Morehouse, just had a meeting. And we just started marching. Just started marching. And we had a young man from Alabama. He used to wear, liked wear his little goatee. I can see his face now. He got arrested up there, and they say, “If you don’t head out by tomorrow, we going to shave you. Going take that off.” I didn’t get arrested in Atlanta. I didn’t get arrested until we got in Ocala. Those guys got arrested up there. But that’s, we just started demonstrating, marching up there. We was doing it, asking “Why not do it in Ocala?” You know, you head home, you talk about helping someone when you could help yourself first at home. Take care of yourself. And I don’t remember the exact date or what sparked the Movement. I don’t know whether someone was stopped, or, I don’t recall. Because we going back [19]65. [19]62, [19]61-[19]62. Long time ago. And some things you don’t want to remember. It could make you evil, and hateful. You know, talking about some stuff that you let it go. And some people can’t let stuff go. And I think that going take them out, when you would get to a point you let stuff kill you from the inside. You know.





	H:	You think it was kind of a form of post-traumatic stress? R:	What?

	H:	Just, the sort of things that people just either forget, or don’t want to talk about.



Or that they can’t get over. Was it kind of like post-traumatic stress?



	R:	I never had that. They try to get me now to join the Hooch up in town, this Vet thing? They bother me about events, too. And some of them need to let it go. You know what I’m talking about? They need to let this thing go. They be trying to get me to come through. I said, “Man, I don’t want to”—I got my uniform in there right now. I can still wear it. You know what I wore? That’s the only thing I had on. We flew half-fare. And once I got home, I took it off. [Laughter] Yeah, I’m a Vet. I enjoyed—I didn’t want to go. But that and marriage, two best things that ever happened to me. Because I only got deer like you living too fast, man! We was just living too fast. Common father owned—one of our classmate was a MD there. If I had [inaudible at 40:07] Kappa. He was a Kappa, a good guy. He owned the club, he was a MD. He owned the club there. And man, we would come home from school, we would go out to the club, get what we wanted.

Anything we want! They’d fill us up with beer, look at anything we want. Then, on Wednesday nights—before I forget—on Wednesday night, they used to have a big dance. People come from all around Marion County. Do you know what we used to do? We used to go out there—that’s when they had Coca-Cola, real Coca Cola bottles in the crates. We would go out there and take Dr. Lamming— his daughter would be with us. Take his coke bottle, put empty bottles, take them back the next day and sell it to him. He told us, before he died, “Don’t you realize





I knew you were stealing my bottles and selling them back to me?” Isn’t that crazy? “Hey, Doc, we got these bottles!” [Laughter] Doc go in his pocket. His daughter had this car. He stopped me one time. He said, “Dave: does Condra ever drive her car?” “I don’t know, sometimes. But right now, give me a couple dollars for gas.” [Laughter] Say, “Boy, you’re crazy!” Well, you know what’s so good about Ocala at that time, it was just—they had, super guys with wives who would come, we would come on and be over there, but Cheryl Young say we playing there, too. Look, they playing the piano and organ for us, and we’ll pay that, drag us in, and just go to sleep. And she said, “Y’all not driving, let’s go ahead and get them feet and grumbling water.” And she used to say, “I don’t know what to do with you guys!” Yeah. But boy, you talk about some good people! I’m talking about, people just looked out for each other. It’s not like now. I was telling someone about—what’s strange about Ocala, we had some people who were, there in Ocala, one that you would call Mother Joe and Mister Jessie. They were—Mother Jessie was a hermaphrodite. They were that way—but they didn’t bother kids. The parents would leave you with them. There’s people, they just crazy, they go—what could a perv get from a little baby? I mean, you know. But these people just like family. They’d, “See you later!” Mrs. Jessop feeds us, let you play around, come back, your mom pick you up, you’d go on home. But I talked to Dorsey, every one—I said, “Did they ever say anything? “Nope. Nope. Nope.” Never say a thing to the child. But kid, people today just crazy. They just bother anybody. Anybody walking, about to tell somebody, if you want to hear about me—that’s what my daughter, my granddaughter. [Catches a punch with





his other hand.] But they going to jail! You won’t be walking anymore! You be doing six, but you won’t be walking six. [Laughter] Oh, man! You say you want some bottled water, man? Y’all want some bottled water?

	M:	Sure.



	H:	Sure, yeah.



	[recording interrupted while DR gets water] R:	I used to lose so much fluid.

	M:	Oh yeah. It’s good to stay hydrated. Thank you. R:	You welcome.

	H:	All right, thank you.



	R:	See, if y’all didn’t have to drive out to Gainesville, I’d have offered you something else. But y’all got to drive back to Gainesville. [Laughter]

	M:	That’s true. So, were you part of the Esquires? Dorsey Miller—Dorsey was telling us about being in the Esquires at Howard. Was that you too?

	R:	Yeah, Dorsey and I were just like brothers. We just like brothers, man. I had a brother that was five years behind me, but he was more like a brother—Heath Butler, Willie Geno, because they were close to my age. You can’t talk to someone five years behind you. You know. Now, my brother looks just like me. I can see [inaudible at 44:13]. Oh, man. But he was different. He was a different guy. As smart as you want to be, but he was on the other side. He would figure out them ways he could do some of the wrong side, the right side. He just, he was smart, but he just—Boy. And I was so happy before he died. I stopped, I just stayed on him, man. But you can’t tell grown people what to do. You know





what I’m talking about? You can’t do it. But he loved me to death. He loved me to death. And he were just like, “Okay, son,” and go to right want he was doing. He got on those drugs when he was over in Germany. And he didn’t bother crack, he looked down on crack, but he’d use that pure cocaine stuff, you know. And I used to tell him, say, “Man, now they chemicals, you don’t know what they’re giving you!” And we got a call one night before I could get back, he had died. He had mixed heroin—hundred percent heroin, hundred percent cocaine—and it shot him straight into a coma. And never came back. That’s what he [inaudible at 45:21]. So he lived out in California. Yeah. Forty years and seating, I found out I had some nieces and nephews I didn’t know nothing about. I got one son, but he, he got some kids.

	H:	Yeah. So, you say when you moved down to Ocala, and you got involved with the Movement, and then you got drafted—did you get drafted while you were working on the Movement?

	R:	Let me tell you what happened, man! What happened, that way they’d get rid of you. They had this Black guy on there that taught DCT at Howard High School. Old Man Anderson. He was on the board. And he suggested to them, “Send them over.” Got me and Dorsey! Dorsey was later. I had gotten out, and they finally got Dorsey. Because when Dorsey came back and started teaching, he was still doing it. They got rid of him through the board. Yeah. But it was good, they did us a good favor in both ways. Because—

	H:	How long were you involved in the Movement before you got shipped out? How many?





	R:	[19]62, [19]61-[19]62, up until, I went into the Army, they drafted me in [19]65.



1965 I went up there.



	H:	So about a good three, four years. R:	Yeah.

	H:	Yeah.



	R:	It came after the two brownouts. I was up in New York. And Dorsey and I was up in New York. We got back, and we had planned to go to Silver Springs. They used to have a thing out in Silver Springs area, September, Labor Day or something. So they had dropped me off to get ready; when they let me out the car, my mom said, “I got something for you!” I’m looking at the paper, talking about “What?” Drafted. I said, “Ohh.” So my whole attitude had changed. When they came out to pick me up, and I walked out the car, said, “Man, what’s wrong?” “I said, “Man I don’t wanna talk about it. I don’t want talk about it man.” [Laughter] My momma only paid them the four they last. “They got, son!” Oh, boy!

	H:	How long was it before you had to go ahead and turn yourself in?



	R:	Oh, I’m talking just draft. I had to go up, go through the thing, go to Jacksonville.



Wasn’t long.



	H:	Wasn’t long?



	R:	Once I got that letter? Oh, no! They want it now! They didn’t—man, they had a system. They knew how to eliminate you. You know. But at the same time, they help me, too. They didn’t know they were helping me. I didn’t know it at the time. But if we had stayed on the same track—we was living fast, man. Having a good





time. And sometimes, we would go out there to Dr. Lamb’ place, get this liquor, and we’d just ride until the last one go to sleep. Now, does that make any sense? And [inaudible at 48:28], I said, “Okay, you can drop me off now!” You know, talking about last one standing. How much sense is in that? And we talking we going stay up long as we could just drinking, having fun. But… The Movement, I stayed in the Movement from the time, [19]61 or [19]62 until they drafted me. And by the time I got back to Ocala, I didn’t stay too long because my wife was— when I got back out of the military, got back to Korea, she was, her aunt used to be married to Dr. Lamb. Dr. Lamb divorced his first wife, married her aunt. And she was home from eight a.m. working in the club. And we’d been dating before. And we’d just hook back up again. That was it. When school started, she came up, I stayed up one night. And went back, stayed up one night, came back, and we got married. And that’s history from there. My son was born here. In fact, he was one of the last babies born at Liam hospital. Used to have a hospital right on campus.

	H:	Didn’t know that.



	R:	Yeah, used to have a hospital right there on campus. Yeah. It’s an administration building now. Used to be right there on campus.

	H:	So do you know anything about the Hunting and Fishing Club?



	R:	Oh, yeah. Reverend Pinkston—during the time, when I got back from the Army, they were still doing some things. Before I left, I would come up here, I went out there a few times, but they were still doing stuff. They used to help with—when they thought someone may try to shoot at someone’ house, they’ll go out and





provide security and stuff like that for Frank Pinkston, Reverend Pinkston. They would do that, yeah. They had some good people. I’ll tell you one thing: I gained a lot of respect for some people. Lost a lot of respect for others. People that I had worked with, you expect them to jump out, to support you. Afraid for their jobs, some were teachers. Afraid for their jobs. And—but what really get me, there were some that really benefitted more than I would. You know, they were cowards, man. And then, there were people you didn’t expect, like that guy would come—there was a guy used to run a club down the street from Covenant Baptist Church. Provided cars, gas money, anything you need. He was just that way. Anything you need. Then, we had some guys who said, “Look. You know that we’re fighting. Now, we not going march in no line.” You know what I’m saying? “But we’ll be back to protect you.” Talking about everybody, you know, the picketers out there. We say, “Hey, you know, that’s okay with us!” And we knew the guys, they were good guys! But they weren’t going to let nobody hit them up onside the head and they was going to, like, smile. They weren’t that way. But they’d say, “We will protect you.” And they good people. And they were at—man, marching, be right there. We had people who worked in the, Blacks who worked in the restaurants and stuff? And we’d go ahead and sit down, man, they’d be in the back holding the knives up. “We got you!” [Laughter] You know what I’m talking about? They were—“Don’t worry about it!” [Laughter] It was funny, man. It was funny.

	H:	They were saying, “Just in case something happens”—





	R:	“—we back here, now.” And one guy, Takashi. Takashi, was working here in Tallahassee. He had, over in Japan, he had fathered a son. So Takashi had a Black father, and the mother didn’t come back, he just brought his son back. So he grew up in Georgia. And he would come to Ocala during the summer. He would help us demonstrate, he’d be out there. So they’d let him go ahead and eat. So we enlisted him in for, and we’d say, “Thank you very much, we got one!” And boy, did they want to—! [Laughter] Tak had to get out of there! Say, “What?”

	H:	So they couldn’t tell by how he looked that he was half Black.



	R:	Oh, no, no no. No, you couldn’t tell. Takashi looked just Japanese, he didn’t look—You couldn’t see any of that in him. You know what I’m talking about? Takashi looked just like a Japanese. His eyes just weren’t slanted, because of his daddy, but he looked just like a Japanese. Oh, Lord! Hair and everything. In fact, he’s working right over here at this Chevrolet place. You know the race driver that own the Chevrolet place up in there? What that race driver’ name? That own the Chevrolet?

	H:	Oh. Not Earnhardt—



	R:	Earnhardt! Yeah, yeah. But he works right up over there. I think Tak’s still over there.

	M:	Would he be willing to talk to us?



	R:	I don’t know. Tak be trying to make that money! [Laughter] Tak, Tak. I talked to him, see, we would ride down there, so he worked for that—but no, I wouldn’t take him to job, because Tak be trying to make that money. Unless you guys





wanna buy a car, then take it out. But he’s a good dude. I think his son has a doctorate. I think one of his son is a MD now.

	M:	And what is the name of that club owner you mentioned, who was providing the cars and things? Or the name of the club?

	R:	Oh, oh oh oh, hold on a sec. Used to be “Frank’s Place.” His name was Frank. I can’t think of Frank’ last name. But it was Frank’s Place. You know where Covenant is, there? It was right down the street from Covenant, right before you got to 441. It was right in there. It’s a funeral home in there now. It was right in the, near where that funeral home is. Called it Frank’s Place. He was a heck of a dude. He would call: “You need anything?” Bring food up there and stuff, for the picketers and stuff, you know? He was just a good person. There were a lot of people who helped, and they weren’t, like, out front. But they helped. You know, they just came down, did things. I got on my—you said you know where Covenant. Right across the railroad track, it was a cleaners—I think that cleaners still there—and my uncle had a big, two-story white house. You know how I got people to come to the Mass Meetings? I’d talk about him so bad. Sitting on the porch, rocking, in the chair. We having a Mass Meeting. I called him a Tom. An Uncle Tom. Man, them people said “Damn, he talk about his own uncle like that!” [Laughter] Boy, they—boy, people started, they say, “Damn! If that how he talk about his uncle, you know he talk about us!” Everybody, and then people just started coming to Mass Meeting, man. They just started coming out. I say, if you wrong you just wrong! He sitting on the porch, rocking. And then, when I got arrested, the county jail was right in front of my dad’ house. So, they sent some—





I had some brothers old enough to be my dad. I have a nephew, we just saw him two Saturdays ago in Georgia, he’s my nephew, but he’s older than I am. He playing running. But what happened is—oh, I missed my thought. What I say about my dad old for?

	H:	What we were talking about? R:	Mmhm.

	H:	You were talking about your uncle and Mass Meetings, and the first time you got arrested.

	R:	Oh, the first time? Okay. Okay. So, we got arrested. They sent some people down from Baltimore. This Black dude’s people. And they saw my name, and said, “Where he at?” Somebody come out and tell them. Said, “He’s standing right over there.” I didn’t know, you know. So they went over the porch and J, “Is that your son?” And if you sit up here on the porch, he over there? He say, “Yeah, that’s my son.” And they, I guess they couldn’t believe, you know. [Laughter] It was real great. Yeah.

	H:	So it seem like your parents supported you.



R:   Oh, yeah. Oh yeah. My mom did. My dad was laid back. I didn’t live with my dad. He just live across the street. But they couldn’t understand why he’s sitting on the porch and rocking, and I’m over there at the—but he knew we were over there.

He knew we was going get out. And it’s a judge here—now, you ever hear of Judge Hatcher, used to be—

H:   Mmhm. Atlanta.





	R:	Let me tell you what happened. I’m talking about Joe Hatcher from Daytona. And he was a federal judge here. He started off right here, he was a bail bondsman over in Daytona. He was an attorney, plus he and—his son is still living, but the guy in the bail bond with him was—oh, boy. But anyway, Hatchett, first time had the summons up here. Someone said they going introduce me. He said, “I remember I used to get him out of jail. I know who he is!” They didn’t know we knew each other. We frat brothers, too. Joe Hatchett. He looked, I passed by, did my six miles every day.

	H:	Is that somebody you think we could talk to as well, in terms of learning about that history?

	R:	Oh, yeah. He’ll tell it to you! Because I think, they’d send someone over to do it, because he talked up, because they had him on TV one time. You know this Florida thing, this channel, Florida something. I don’t know whether it through FSU, or—I think FSU was doing something one time. Not, I saw Joe Hatchett on TV. He was talking about some of the Movement. Because he was bail bondsman at one time.

	H:	So, I guess when people were getting arrested, he was the one who came and bailed them out.

	R:	Yeah. I know when I was getting ready to go to AIT, advanced training, but it was just [inaudible 59:05]. Military police school. I had to stay back a week, because they had to do backup, because I was arrested. But that saved me, because I would’ve gone straight to Vietnam. Would’ve went straight to Vietnam. I went to Korea; they went to Vietnam. And I stayed back. And I’ll never forget: they had





an assistant attorney. When he got done yelling, that guy say, “I want you to see it.” And what that man says, if I’d been in his position, I would’ve done the same. We wasn’t doing anything, we wasn’t breaking—we was just marching and stuff; you know what I’m talking? What we getting on criminal? He said, “If I’d been there, I would’ve done the same thing.” And that what kept the appeal approved. That’s something I go in MP school. I’m trying to think—I’ve got his name somewhere. Because I couldn’t believe he’s that old. That guy said, “Well, that’s all right!” People, everybody now, put down—you know, they say, “If you ever arrested?” He said, “Man, that was so long ago!” But they won’t say, “I deny it.” You just can’t say a lie. They had the [inaudible 01:00:08]. Say, what? Tell you something else about attitude: while I’m thinking about it, while we’re laughing. I was down in Sanford, there to take our granddaughter up to—I don’t know about this—take to—I was just speeding, man! I didn’t know what the hell speed. So the policeman stopped me. I had my—boy, I was holding my steering wheel.

Boy, you saw he was laughing! I said, “Officer”—I had to gave him, I says—“I’m reaching for my driver’s licenses? You can see I ain’t trying to get nothing. I’m just reaching for my driver’s license.” And I said, “Sir, I don’t know why I was speeding. I’m retired, have nowhere to be—in fact, I’ve forgotten where I was going!” He say, “What?” That man start laughing so loud, he get a phone, he got on the phone, he say—he talking to one his buddies, say, “You won’t believe this.” He say, “Sir, have a nice day!” I say, “In fact, I forget where I was going!

Why was that worth it?” What was I supposed to do? Boy, I thought I must have made his day—that man was laughing so hard. I know people passing by,





saying, “I wonder what’s wrong with them!” Oh, man, he was just—“Oh, my god!” Boy, we were laughing. I say, “I really don’t know why I was doing it.” “You have a nice day, sir.” I said, “Oh, you’ve made my day.” [Laughter] “Thank you.” You know.

	H:	So, I know you talked about the Mass Meetings. What were they like?



	R:	Man, I’m glad you brought that up. We had a place there—and one time—what I been saying about coming to see my momma, I’m’a call you guys, you can come over, I can show you—we had a place we called “Club 417.” And it—I could walk to it from my house, I just walk down—I would spend more time there than— I would walk right from Orange Street right across 441, right down to it. The house was 417, I can’t even think of the street name now. But we called it “Club 417,” because that’s where we partied. Before the Mass Meeting, where I had to speak, I’d go down there, boy, we filed! I mean, we played it skuh. I got ready to speak one night. I already had my stuff together, whatever I wanted to speak about. And I pass this big billboard. It had a link, and one was missing: “The Missing Link.” I tell you my whole speech. “The Missing Link.” [Laughter] Turned it up, boy! “The missing link.” And when I started, they talking about, “Dave fired!” Everybody around there say, “Yeah, he fired up, tore it up!” [Laughter]

	H:	So you’d go to Club 417 before the meeting, just kind of get ready for it. R:	Yeah. You know, it was a weekend. That stuff and all.

	H:	Just plan out what you want to say.



	R:	I already told you, man, my stuff was totally different. And on the way to the church, just big old billboard: “The Missing Link.” Said, “Wow, that sound good!”





And I jumped up for it. Boy, they fell out! Boy, I just ran with it. “Are you the missing link?” [Laughter] Boy, man, stuff that was funny. People used to come Reddick in or Reddick gain. They had this lady, taught school for years, man. We were somewhere we shouldn’t be one day. No, we were on the way—my friend, I told you Pop father had the, what we called Daddy Raymond, he had a logging business. So we were heading up there toward Reddick to pick up a check from him. We were heading up there, and this lady’ husband was waiting tables, I guess it was. He was heading toward town. He saw the truck, and I could see him braking. And I said, “Oh! Damn!” We got up there, and Diamond have Betty, his wife, had the little baby going in the store. But “I’m’a stop, have Betty to cook—” I said, “Boy, don’t stop! Didn’t you see the man just brake?” Said, “I think she dig me.” I said, “Brother, don’t pick that berry, don’t do that, man!” And he stop anyway. So, Betty got stuff and we took her back to her house right down the street. And as soon as we were getting out, Tanner was coming up the road. And when I saw Tanner, I put baby and everything, BAM! And we started running. Ran around in back of the house—big old thing, man, I mean bushes. So brother hid, and kept hidden. And when he fell out, he ran right up his back. I ran this little house, she was in this outdoor toilet. And she say, “We see you got a gun, he got a gun.” Said, “Baby, we don’t have one.” So we left the truck and everything. We started running. And this train, this train was coming.

Man, I mean, it was coming—I said, “Brother, either the train will kill us, or he’ll kill us.” So let’s try it. So we jumped off. So we were going through this little place.





[Interchange with DR’s wife]



	H:	So did your wife go to FAMU?



	R:	Yeah. Oh, she got like twenty of those FAMU shirts, did she go to FAMU? [Laughter] Got about two hundred of those shirts. And she picked that first. I can’t say that, I picked my short shirt, and my Q stuff. But—

[Break in recording]



Oh, we was talking about Daddy Raymond. And we was running, man; we was running like the Devil. So we made the train, and we made it to the teaching house. And knowing we had a massive beating out there, boy, we had scratches all over! And she got her son to take us to town. I got up there to speak that night, she was sitting on the front. She was laughing so hard! She kept wanting— and I knew what she was there about. Scratching on me, running from Tanner.

That Tanner had us on the run, boy! Yes sir, buddy. They tell me he real sick now. They told me, said, “Dave”—I used to be like The Fugitive, man! I see him and just start running. I’m serious! I see Tanner and started running. Old Tanner, they tell me he real sick.

	H:	And who was Tanner?



	R:	He was that young lady’s husband that—see, I was dating her before he married her. And I got back from the Service, he saw me in the store, it was—oh, man!

Oh, man.



	H:	“Rackard’s back!” [Laughter]



	R:	Oh, boy. He started out brawling. You know, we kept bothering him, so—can’t admit to anything, but he kept bothering me. And he couldn’t get me, so he called





his brother one night. He went by and had his gun and everything. Had two— before he brought Dorsey in the car. And put a two bag and put me in the back. And saw that gun. And they said Butler turned on me. They said, “I told you, young Butler”—no, it is, he’s talking about, “Hey, Butler, where Dave?” He about high. But, like, “Dave flew south, baby!” [Laughter] He talking about “Dave flew south.” He say, “What?” Before a brother can lock the door, they start—“I told you young punks were messing with my wife!” It didn’t make much turn on his boy: “It’s not me you want! It’s Dave!” [Laughter] Own brother telling on me, boy, I’ll tell you! That time, he came by Butler mom and them houses looking for us. Old Dorsey and all them out, they had been out partying—“Dave, you going there?” “Nah, nah, nah.” So we were all staying over at Butler house. “Oh, man, no no no, y’all go ahead.” So, later on that night, Dorsey ran in, say, “Dave!

Dave! Wake up, Dave! Wake up! Look here! Look here!” Butler had three big old hickey scars here. [Laughter] That was a night. I said, “What happened? What happened?” We start to laughing. “Tanner out there.” I said, “What?” I jumped up. I ran outside, I turned off all the lights. Guess what I did? Peeped out the window, I saw a car eater, I ran just right—his momma, Butler—just right between them, wouldn’t leave. Right, jumped in the bed with them. Boy, they laugh at me today! I’d say, “Shoot, tell me y’all going get the kid.” I was running up something, boy. “The Runner”—that should’ve been my name.

	H:	Did you know Ms. Juanita Cunningham? Do you have any stories or memories about her?





	R:	She’s here, she’ll be up. Her and her husband’s all up there, they were involved in stuff, too. They—her husband and his brother ran the funeral home, Cunningham Funeral Home. How’s she doing?

	H:	So we actually interviewed her about a week and a half ago. She’s doing well.



She’s ninety years old.



	R:	She was a pretty lady. My, that was a pretty lady! Mm-mmm! Yeah, she’s, yep. I just know she used to help us with stuff. She was very supportive. Her husband, brother-in-law, they were very supportive. All of them were good, they brothers Cunningham. Yeah. They were very supportive of that. She stood out, she stepped out. Stood tall. Some of them just stand tall, over here. But to our recognition.

	H:	So what was Reverend Pinkston like?



	R:	He was a good dude, good dude. Good speaker. We used to travel over to St.



	Augustine. You know the guy, the dentist over in St. Augustine, that’s— M:	Hayling?

	R:	Yeah. I didn’t realize he from Tallahassee, gave him some kind of award up here.



I said, “Damn! That’s Dr. Hayling!” Oh, he was very supportive. We would go over there, man, over to St. Augustine, be speaking and stuff and all. I didn’t realize they were that crazy, you know what I’m saying? They pulled guns, acid in the pool! I said, “Boy, they crazy over here! I got get back to Ocala!” I wasn’t worried about it. See, I tell people about fear, see? Fear is taught. And I was never taught to fear anyone or anything. And I respect snakes, but I don’t fear them. But I don’t fear anything, man. I guess they’ll say, “That’s a crazy guy!” All





of them crazy, lived this long. Dorsey was seventy-two in January; I was seventy- two yesterday. Boy, crazy—it’s amazing we still alive. Now, we didn’t do crooked stuff, we just did silly stuff. Crazy. Bothered with people in the [19]60s. Chasing, up and down the street.

	H:	Was there ever—I know with Ocala being right there, and that being where you were from, were you ever cautious—not scared, but cautious—about leaving Ocala and doing work in other parts of Florida?

[Break in recording as DR answers phone]



	M:	So, people have said Frank Pinkston was a real good speaker. R:	Oh, yeah!

	M:	Is there anything particular about him that you remember as a speaker?



	R:	He was a fine, he was good. He was just a—I’m just going to mention that when you mentioned the Mass Meetings. He was tough. He could get off, now. Scale of one to ten, I give him a ten. He was—he was good. That’s another thing about good people, don’t last too long. Yeah. He knew how to fire them up, believe me. Old Frank. I tell you, we’d be all over the state. I went everywhere. Met some good people. Twenty, twenty-nine years old.

	H:	My birthday was just Tuesday.



	R:	Wow, okay. Okay. Twenty-nine. Think I got some shoes that are twenty-nine. [Laughter] [To RM:] How old are you? How old are you?

	M:	Thirty-three.



	R:	Thirty-three? Oh yeah, well, I got some shoes that’re thirty-three. Yeah, no, but it’s cool, I mean—age, that’s just a number. When y’all go high again, I just like to





tease people. We all started, have a starting point. It’s what you do between those two dots. You know, that’s the important thing. Trying to do something different.

	M:	That’s true. So, did you go to St. Augustine during the Movement, or did you only—you heard about it later?

	R:	No, we were going—see, but we were going, on—see, with Hayling, that’s the time we were going over there to have meetings over there. They were doing stuff at the time, you know, when they were throwing it with something. And Frank had to speak over there. I spoke. And we would ride through, stop and crab on the way there—because we knew people in Palatka, because that’s where his daddy from, Palatka. And we would just go, go just, just go ahead.

	M:	Did you do much demonstrating in St. Augustine, or just speaking? R:	Speaking.

	M:	So is this all NAACP-related stuff?



	R:	Yeah. But you know what? The NAACP today, only thing—it appear to me, now—the only thing they want to do is have that big thing every year out there. They don’t do anything! I worry wouldn’t about it nobody had a card, NAACP. Because—that’s the thing I’m figuring—they called one of my friends out in Texas, and they say, “We don’t get all up on the phone bother with me.” What do you—when the last time you done something? They gave that guy award—you know the guy who was—

	H:	Sterling.





	R:	Uh-huh. Do I need to say more? I mean, they just, they just—something wrong with them, man! They think it’s having big parties, you know, tuxedos. What have you done lately? I don’t bother. I like active stuff. If you going to be out there— they don’t do anything, man! You know. And they don’t peep nothing, but NAACP—“What’s that?” In fact, all them people: “What is that?” They were very good at one time. But now, I’d just start me a new group.

	M:	Well, what got you started in the NAACP to begin with? How was it that path, and not—?

	R:	Well that wasn’t, not, mostly—well, during that time, you had SNCC and all that, but most stuff in Florida was, you know, the NAACP. And it was just, I don’t know. I just at that time liked the NAACP better, because I could have—we could have been in an organization. Cause we’re crazy enough, already have a G-suit, so I could have been in it. So I could’ve had black glove on, all that. I was just bored of—like I told you, I like diversity. I like the mixing. I don’t like all Black, all White—I just can’t go for that. Can’t go for it. I know my son one time, talking about—he grew up up here.

	H:	In Tallahassee?



	R:	Yeah, he, one time—I don’t know what happened, I mean, mostly always been in, we’ve always stayed in a mixed neighborhood. And he came home one day, I don’t know if somebody fired him up at school or what, talking about he hate White folk. I said, “What? You hate—” And his momma said, “What?” Know what we did? We took him to Ocala. And sit him with some of his people who was a different color. We never said anything to him about it. Evelyn’s paternal





grandfather, Cuba. My mother’ father was not Black. So you talking about you hate people—I mean, it’s just—he said, “What?” And then, when we took him around, he felt so silly. Said, “Know what I mean? That mean you hate your own people, fool!” Hate? Yeah, now he was something—her granddaddy? He had a cleaner’s, right next to the house, man. He was something else. He was a cool man.

	M:	What’s his name?



	R:	He changed his name. I could call him Mr. Johnson. He was Cuban, but he changed his name. I guess they had to do that then. I don’t know, he may have been running from something. Don’t know. People would come from Crosstown, down there where I lived. Whites would go over there on the west side to have the—of course, he was sharp. He was a sharp guy. Strong person, too. Strong. He died before we actually moved up, so he died off. My dad was there. John Johnson—Johnson, Johnson, why—it was a Johnson guy that campaign, he used to campaign up there, but he was a councilman or something.

	H:	In Atlanta?



	R:	Yeah, he bigtime. Daddy was a—dang, I can see the face right now. He was a legend for years. Good guy. Oh, he gave us a space, and give us money, good money, to campaign for him. When we got his money, everybody run and get some too. That guy, we had our hustle going, man. Selling books, and working campaigns. [Laughter]

	H:	The college hustle.





	R:	Yeah, they talking about, “What y’all going start there?” Get this money first. Get the money first. Alexander. Alexander was a big name. T.M. Alexander. He was a—he was a big boy. He want to be, he taught some courses at Clark, too. Because he taught me economics. He was a sharp, clean guy. T.M. Alexander. He been in there talking about, “You going vote for me!” “Yeah, I’m going vote— yeah, yeah, yeah, we going vote for you.” Go tell other man the same thing: we going vote for him.

	M:	Is there anything in particular, strategy-wise, that you brought back with you from Atlanta to the Movement, or was it just kind of the inspiration for getting the Movement going?

	R:	It was just the idea that—we just got fired up up there. And to think that we was doing it there, doing it in Atlanta, we said, “Well, wait a minute! We’d like to talk— why we be up there doing it, and then not trying to do something in Oca—it don’t make any sense.” And we were sitting, as usual, we had all this stuff open, and sitting—I’m about to repeat pretty good, what that man do, what we had that bag sitting out front of that store that night, drinking and stuff. You know? And we just put it all together that night. Say we going do it. And then jumped right out the next day, went round, get—kids was ready, that summer the kids was ready.

They were ready to help get all of that. Even the little ones and stuff. And then, what would really—see people pouring acid. You got to be really—on kids, man! Now, that is sick! And then turning dogs loose. You know. But I think the best move was that nonviolent thing. See, if someone hit you upside the head and you just look at them—“Are you crazy?”—and don’t do nothing? It does something to





them. I’m serious, psychologically it does something to them. “I just beat that man upside the head, he look at me like I’m crazy.” Yeah.

	M:	Did you always have difficulty going with the nonviolent kind of approach?



	R:	Mm-mm. I just, I see violence, they fired up like that, that would—I don’t think it would accomplish that much. I really don’t. It don’t really, just doesn’t make sense to me. But I can understand—I understand other people, that work for them. You know, I don’t knock them for what they were doing. They had their own agenda. But, mm-mm—I didn’t think it was right, but sometime you need somebody with different ideas. So you go ahead and do it. I think we did the best thing with the nonviolent. I think it was—if we had tried that violent, we probably still been out there fighting. Lot of dead people and all that foolishness and all that. Ours more of a psychological game, you know what I’m talking about? “Man, the thing’s heavy!” Probably going, “I just beat this guy upside the head, he didn’t do nothing.” They start listening to the mind’s sight.

	M:	Do you remember any particular incidents or confrontations during the Movement that stand out to you or—?

	R:	Man, I—I went so many places, done so many things. I’m just trying to think. And I used to run my mouth, so. Sometime we had to run, too. Sometimes we had to run.

	M:	Well, how’d you get arrested? What happened that time?



	R:	We were demonstrating. And they just arrested us—we weren’t doing anything, we was just walking around with picket signs. And they just took us to jail. You





didn’t have to do anything—you just be Black. Look at them—I guess they it, what, Black While Walking?

	H:	Walking While Black. [Laughter]



	R:	Walking While Black or something, you know. I don’t know. You didn’t have to do anything, just be there. Yeah. You guys are Black—and you too, aren’t you?

	M:	Me?



	R:	Yeah.



	M:	Nah.



	R:	You just don’t know about it. Your parents didn’t tell you? M:	Uh, I mean, maybe. Maybe it’s—

	R:	Now I’m just looking at your hair. [Laughter] I don’t mean no harm, now, brother. I don’t mean it, I don’t mean nothing. You don’t look any different from my uncle! [Laughter] I was saying, “After a while, before it’s like two brothers come.” [Laughter] No, I don’t mean harm, man, I don’t. I don’t mean any harm. Feel comfortable, say what you want to say, ask me what you want to ask me. I’ll tell you. One thing: I won’t lie to you. No, I won’t lie to you, now.

	M:	We appreciate that. Well, so one question—do you remember a guy named Zev Aelony? Or [pronounces name differently]. He was a White guy who came from the north, and got arrested in Ocala, and they were trying to say he was crazy.

	R:	What year?



	M:	I think it was about [19]63.



	R:	[19]63? That’s when we were doing—I was there in [19]63!





	M:	He was in CORE. And so he had come through Tallahassee, got arrested in Dunnellon, and then he was at the jail, and there was—so I talked to, you know Mary Williams? Mary Calhoun? And Rosemary Florence.

	R:	I know them. I know Rosemary, yeah. M:	Yeah, so they remembered—

	R:	Because Rosemary tell me you guys went to see her, but you wanted to talk to me, too. Yeah. Yeah.

	M:	Well, so they marched on the jail—



	R:	Her parents were real active, too. Oh, man! Her parents were active. They were really active. They made sure their kid was down there—look here. Got them parents, “You go on to church, now.” Brought them down there, too. Her, Rosemary’ daddy was a barber. And they lived right next door to my in-laws. And I was home one time, and that’s when they were getting ready—he said, “Dave, you know, these people crazy. They were getting ready to say something about”—you know, I think about who started the Movement and all. That was years ago. And I didn’t think much of it. I said, “You know what, man? Let that go.” At that time, I said, “Don’t worry about it.” But he was upset. Because he knew that what they were saying wasn’t true. You know, I think that was during the time they were trying to get that road through there for Frank Pinkston, or that little mob up or something. And it got very creative on some stuff, see. It got very creative. And I said—I didn’t let it too much—I said, let it go, you know? Because he knew it wasn’t right. I said, “Man, please.” But then, when his brother just kept—this happened long ago. He got upset with me, too. Garvey got upset with





me. I let it go for a long time. He kept talking about, “Frank did this! Frank started this!” So one day, we were on the phone, I said, “Garvey, let me tell you something: I been giving you a pass for the longest. I got to stop this lie. Frank ain’t start it”—I don’t really care—“didn’t start anything.” “Ms. Parker say—” I say, “I don’t care what Ms. Parker said. Frank didn’t start anything.” Boy, he got upset! So be it. I passed the age where I give him too many passes, man. I’m sick of it. He was a good man, though, don’t get me wrong. But he ain’t start nothing. He was just like everybody—boy, he really got to me! I say, “Frank was just like everybody else ‘til we came back: sitting on his behind doing nothing. Man kicking you in the behind every day, and y’all was taking it. Don’t tell me he started nothing, I don’t want to hear it.” Boy, he didn’t talk to me for a good while.

	M:	[Laughter] Did you know at that time that Frank had been involved with a sit-in in Virginia, while he was up there at school? Do you remember hearing about that at all?

	R:	No. See, I may have, but I don’t know whether—I couldn’t vouch on that. I don’t know. I don’t know. That’s hard to believe, because if he had, maybe he would have been doing something in Ocala, wouldn’t he?

	M:	I don’t know.



	R:	I mean, that’s an honest transition. If you’re doing something in Virginia—we were up doing something in Atlanta, so we brought it back to Ocala. So, no, I don’t believe that. No, I don’t believe that. You just don’t stop all the sudden, don’t do nothing, someone got to come to you—“Hey man, we need some help.” I don’t believe that. I could be wrong, but I don’t believe that.





	M:	Well, I mean, it happened. There were pictures, actually. R:	He did?

	M:	Oh, yeah.



	R:	He did do something?



	M:	Yeah. Now, he was—they call that the Richmond 34, I think. R:	Oh, okay! Okay! Now, I didn’t—

	M:	If you didn’t know about it, that’s—



R:  I didn’t know, because—dang, that seem real strange. That he would come to Ocala without that fire up under him. I had a—what I’m saying, but maybe you guys thought we into other stuff—don’t, I’m not trying to put him, he’s a good man—not trying. But how did he—the Richmond what, now? Thirty-four?

M:   Yeah, “Richmond 34” is what they called them.



	R:	Shit, we call us the “Atlanta 3!” [Laughter] Y’all go ahead, man. I just like to have fun, I don’t mean no harm. I just like to have fun. “Atlanta 3.” Atlanta.

H:   Any more, Ryan, or—?



M:   Well, I was going to ask about—



	R:	Y’all don’t have to rush or nothing. I got nothing but time, man. H:	Yeah, but we just don’t want to keep you too long.

	R:	Well, I don’t have a problem. I don’t have anything to do. When you get ready, that’s okay, but don’t let me rush you.

	M:	Well, you know.





	R:	Like I told the policeman, “I don’t know what I’m doing!” In fact, oh—what time is it? Y’all don’t mind if I get and get a—oh, it’s twelve twenty-nine. I need to get me something cold. You don’t mind? Do you want something cold?

	H:	Oh, no, no, I’m fine. R:	It’s okay with you? M:	It’s fine, it’s fine.

[Continued exchange, break in interview]



	M:	So, I asked about Frank. What about O.V. Pinkston? What do you remember about him?

	R:	Real good man, super man. He was my pastor. I used to be up, actually when I was going to church, I was going to church to see girls. Because I never could— that wasn’t tip O.V. He was a heck of a guy, man. He’s a hell of a good speaker, also. Just did good things. He was from Palatka originally, I think. They moved to Ocala, and when I got ready to go to Clark, he was one of my—what do you call it when you get someone, they speak well of you or something? What you call them?

	M:	Letter of recommendation, or—?



	R:	Yeah. He wrote the letter, nice letter. O.V. Pinkston! Yeah. I saw him up ‘til he got sick. In fact, I was at a wedding there, he was there, and I knew then his time was about up, because he was—sometime, people don’t know when to quit. And I don’t think his son knows—in fact, his youngest son got upset with the congregation because they were talking about he was trying to push him out; it was time for Reverend Pinkston to go. It was time. Because I think it was a





recent Alzheimer’s thing? He good man, but it was time for him to go. He used to work out at Silver Springs, out there. That was, he’d work out there then he’d preach. He was a good man. All of the sons were good students, I mean all the kids were good students. Ann, all of them, good students.

	M:	And O.V. was the only—Covenant was the only church you were able to use during the Movement, is that—?

	R:	No, no, it wasn’t the only one we were able to use. That’s the one we picked.



Because we figured Reverend Pinkston would back us. We had our reasons for doing certain things. We didn’t go bother a person who wasn’t going to be supportive. Reverend Pinkston was fired up just like we were fired up. Why go to a person who not going be right behind you, back you? It was a nice location, know what I’m talking about? Look here: a few hops from downtown. We could hop downtown! [Laughter] Few hops downtown. Oh, let me tell you something about this—it don’t affect me. Like it affects some people? But I’m crazy anyway, so I’d be insane whether I’m drinking or not. But he was something else, Mr.

Reverend Pinkston. Oh, they went on that thing as far as—and they didn’t have to do it. I mean, it was up there, but anytime—in fact, we all just took over the church like it was ours! But I mean, we just did what we had to do. We had a meeting, no problem. It got to the point, I think somebody gave us a key.

Because they knew we were serious—man, we were just serious about what we were doing. We were—and the people, we were shocked after we went around, and after I talked about my uncle, how the people came through, man. They came through strong, man. I mean, really strong. There were still some—I won’t





call any names—that just, it bothered me, because just, as a kid, I saw them, I just thought that they would be out there, out front. Dr. Lamb was there. Boy, he helped us! He was another good guy. Oh, his daughter’s real sick, Connie’s real sick. Connie lives in Belleview now.

	M:	What do you remember about Dr. Lamb?



	R:	What I remember? Man, old Lamb was almost like a daddy to me. Shoot, what do I remember about him? Good man, man. Doc took care of people. I came home from Clark—I mean, I came from Tallahassee. I had got this position with the state and all, and because I was from Ocala, they had it all in the Ocala Star- Banner: director of a state program, one of the youngest state director. And I went to the doc, no fees and all that, “Doc, how much my momma owe you?” Doc say, “What? You think I been keeping tabs? You momma owe me nothing!” I say, “What?” He was real close to my mom and my uncle—that lives in Bowlingwa now? Everywhere Bobby played—Bobby played for Morehouse Brown—Doc would go to all the games. He was just tight with them. They were real close. Doc was something else, man. You know something else I liked about Doc? A lot of people; I get around the group, be talking all up, then get around someone else—you know, of another color—and real mean, Doc never take it.

Doc didn’t take nothing from nobody. Doc was just outspoken, man. Oh, man! Doc was outspoken.

[Cut from 1:37:32-1:37:46?] They going to stop Doc talking about driving—while DWI. No. Doc would pay someone to drive for him. Don’t put that in there about that. Y’all scratch that. [Laughter]





No, but they were just on him, they would try to stop him for stuff like that, you know. He would stand tall. He wouldn’t back down. So many of them backed down, I don’t even—but all of them got promoted. I mean, when things changed? Oh, man, they was first in there, principalships, all that. I say, “You mean that sorry—they just what?” But one guy who, from the time—I think he was trying to live through me—he wanted me to be a doctor real bad, boy, I think because that’s what he wanted to do. When I was in his class, I in class, someone get hit, I always had the kit. Always had to patch them up and stuff. I got to Clark, that man said, “Okay, read Chapter 1 through Chapter 13 for next class.” I raised my hand. “Yes, Mr. Rackard?” I said, “Can you tell me the quickest way I can get out of here?” And that was the last time he saw me. I mean, one class? I said, “Man, you can’t be serious!” I told him, “That must have been your examination process! You were just trying to get rid of people. You got me, and a whole lot— you should’ve seen the people, boy, they were coming out of there! No, man!

Mm-mm.



	M:	Do you remember when Ralph Abernathy, and Jackie Robinson, and some of the kind of bigger names came to the Mass Meetings?

	R:	I remember Abernathy. Yeah. But I don’t remember—who said Jackie Robinson came in?

	M:	It was in the paper, too, but Rosemary remembered it. Some people remembered it.

	R:	Well see, we could’ve been gone. Now, I remember when that Ralph Abernathy came. But what happened—we were back and forth in school, so we could’ve





been gone. It could’ve happened here. Yeah. Rosemary—now, she went to the Mass Meetings, she said that they—I told you her parents were real active, her dad, all of them. Now, you talk about the talk. Boy, that was a funny man. I used to like to hang around with him while he hang around the barber shop.

	M:	Do you remember much about Abernathy’s visit, or do you just kind of remember he came—?

	R:	Well, see, I knew him from Atlanta, so when he came to Ocala, it wasn’t—I remember he came. But it wasn’t big—I don’t know whether we pushed him to come or what, but I know we came. I don’t know if we were part of a thing that got him there or not. But we seen Abernathy almost every day, so it wasn’t a big deal to us. I’m trying to think, I don’t know how. I could see him now. Boy, you talk about a good number two man. He was something. Now, Jesse, mm-mm.

Never cared too much for Jesse. Jesse was too for himself. Jesse, Jesse. Even now, something is wrong with him. He showed up at—something happened, those people got killed, and he was standing up there. He was standing there like, his speech not as sharp anymore, and I mean he must’ve had a stroke or something. It looked like something not right with Jesse. But he was opportunistic to me. I never cared too much about him. He used to come over to Quincy some years ago—I’m trying to think if I was teaching. I was here in Tallahassee.

Talking, “You going over there?” “For what? I don’t need nobody to tell me to be somebody; I’m somebody! What the hell I need somebody to tell me to be somebody? I know who I am!” And then, it was so—it made me very angry. See, he got real jealous of Obama when Obama start running. Obama ran for real. He





was out there playing when he was running. He had no program together; he was just out there being silly. And he’s real jealous. Like, I like Al Sharpton better, because Al—talking all this stuff about Al, I’m watching every day. But Jesse’s all about himself too much, man. And then what really got me, when he talk about going up there, giving Clinton advice. When, what’s the name, that thing, the lady he got caught with? I said, “Why would he do that when he got a baby”—and I said, “After I sue, they going break that”—only a fool talk about advising somebody, and it wasn’t two or three days later that he broke that thing that he had a baby out there. How you going advise somebody when you got your own problems? That’s [inaudible 01:43:15], but leave on. He going, “I’m going advise you, now.” What? Get your butt out.

	M:	So what about when you were traveling with the NAACP. Did you ever come to Tallahassee? Because there was a Reverend C.K. Steele here. I don’t know if you ever encountered him.

	R:	You remember—I’m going to tell you the Tallahassee connection: Pat Due used to be a student at A&M. She’s known, she was in that, and when they stopped going—I’m tell you, we used to get Pat Due and it was young Reverend Steele come to Ocala to help us. Okay? And that’s how that hookup, because when I got up, I went by to see Pat Due. But Pat, and it was another guy, they were students at A&M, last name—oh boy, I can see it now. Can’t think of it. But Pat used to come to Ocala and help us, too. Oh, yeah, I know, she did some good work. I know all the people did some good work. There were slackers, too. Some of the people didn’t want to show up until camera time, like Jesse Jackson. All





you got to do break out your camera, he going be there. But his time—there’s another person need to go home now. Jesse need to take his tired butt home like we did. Everybody, we home now, they helping someone else. But Jesse needs to go home. He stole enough money and made enough money. Made his brother rich with those franchises. His son got stupid—how you going use campaign money to buy a Michael Jackson glove? He and his wife, his son and daughter- in-law going to jail. It’s tournament time, I think he just got out and the wife went in. I mean, how stupid is that? And to spend the money on a Michael Jackson glove? I got a glove they can have free!

	M:	Do you have any particular memories of Patricia Due that kind of stand out to you at all, or—?

	R:	She was a good organizer. Good speaker. Real serious about the Movement.



Wasn’t no play thing, she did her work. And those people, I mean, they didn’t just jump in and jump out. I just got caught up in it, man. I was out of school for a while. I just got caught up into the Movement. My mom just looked at me and smiled when I say that. My uncle, same thing. Because they know I would finish what I start. I finished with honors, man! If I hadn’t been messing around—I had 3.29, 3.23 or something. When I started all this, I had about a 3.6 average. And I played at Clark, I’ll give you—I played around at Clark. Oh, man, I played around. I thought I’d just bought the books and put them on the shelf! Boy, but when I went back to school, I was really serious. I was really serious when I went back, but at Clark, I played. I did, I played around quite a bit, boy. But when you jump





out there on your own, it’s different—you got a family, it’s different then, man. Whole different ballgame.

	M:	Do you remember much about Reverend Steele? Do you remember interacting with him?

	R:	I forgot you asked about that. No, I didn’t have too much interactions with Reverend Steele. I just used to see him, you know, talk to him sometimes. We never worked together on any projects or anything. He was good. He was serious about what he was doing. He was no phony, I’ll give you that. He did his work, man. You had a lot of people out there during the Movement times out there for show, but he was serious. Real serious. He was like Martin Luther King. Gave up a lot, man. But his son—I go back to the King children. You from Atlanta, you all know about how greedy they are! They want to get paid for everything. You look at a King picture? King picture? Okay, fifty dollars. They want to get paid for anything. You walk by the house, they want you to pay. I mean, they just silly! What happened to his ex-wife? She got real fat lately. And that other boy, he going have a heart attack—that Martin Luther King III? He married a girl from here. His wife is from Tallahassee. Pretty girl, how he got her? The name. The name got her, oh, he rode on the name on that one! That’s a pretty young lady, man, unless she changed lately. But she was a pretty girl.

Was—that means it passed; I hope she still is.



	H:	She still is.



	R:	Oh. Okay. Past tense. You mention past tense and all that? They talk about “What?” They don’t teach English anymore, man! I was teaching over there in





Quincy—I got to tell you this—and the guy said something. He said, “I should’ve went.” I said, “No, son. You should’ve gone. I said, after auxiliary, use a past participle.” He say, “Past what?” [Laughter] He didn’t know what a past participle—he said, “Pass what?” They don’t teach English anymore, man, I’m serious! They don’t teach English.

	M:	You remember that being part of Howard Academy? Was that part of how you were—in Howard, they taught that kind of stuff?

	R:	Man, let me tell you something! They had teachers. I’ll never forget, I was sitting in the back of the class. I said, “Boy, be ‘pecific!” Ms. Pardle say, “You going be Atlantic if you don’t shut up!” [Laughter] We had teachers, man, who just—you know, it’s amazing—when you learn, you don’t even realize it, and it’s something else. I mean, that’s something. And I’ve always read anything—three or four pages a day, do crossword puzzles, keep your mind sharp. And we had teachers, man, who were just—Howard High School? Man, they didn’t play.

When you left there, you were ready. At Clark, I was in a math class. Mr. Dennis. And he say, “You from Ocala?” We had a test, and I just blew it away. He say, “You from Ocala? Did Ms. Brown teach you?” I say, “Yes, sir.” Said, “You don’t need to come back here. Not to this class. I know he ready.” They were in school together, he knew what type of teacher she was. And he had given his first test, I just wiped right through it. He say, “You don’t have to come in here. You come in here next week, you know, an advance time, [inaudible at 1:50:35].” She was something—we called her “Olive Popeye.” She looked just like—you know Popeye’s girlfriend? That what she put you in mind of. We used to call her behind





her back Olive Popeye. Here name was Ms. Brown. Talk about “Ms. Olive Popeye, look at her.” But boy, she was a good teacher. And we had this—Joyce and I were laughing the other day about this—before we would chase the White folk, we had to go by Ms. Davis’ house. “Wake up, Ms. Davis, wake up! The Redcoats are coming!” She was our history teacher. [Laughter] Yeah, she was crazy, boy. But one our classmates took her husband from her. And I believe she knew what was going, because when we got in her class, she’d always throw this stuff out there. Lerona, Lerona married, and they stayed married a long time until he died, too. He was way older than us, man! Lerona got all that money, too. She still look good. Yessir, buddy. Used to be Lerone Taylor, Lerone Davis now, old man Davis. Yeah. He had insurance company there, and lot of real estate. Old man Davis was bigtime. Mr. Davis. They tell you anything about the doctors—not only Dr. Lamb, but Dr. Jones?

	M:	Dr. Jones.



	R:	N.H. Jones the name that elementary—Dr. N.H., now usually it’s called N.H. Jones. I went through that later, it’s “Dr. N.H. Jones.” I guess they got Dr. Phillip down there in Orlando? It’s Dr. N.H. Jones now. At first, when they first opened it, it was just N.H. Jones Elementary. But I don’t see how people stand up in that building! I passed by the other day, the damn ceiling was about like this. I say, “How I stand up?”

	M:	What do you remember about Silver Springs? Do you have any memories about what that was like, or what role that played, kind of—or, I’m sorry, Paradise Park.





	R:	Let me tell you something, let me give it a breakdown. We didn’t go to Silver Springs at that time. The part we were at was Paradise Park. My uncle was a lifeguard out there for years. One of my uncles, Robert Wilson, was the lifeguard for a long time. And the guy who ran the place was a cousin of mine, Mr. Vereen, who ran the place. He was the manager and all. And I used to go down and do— I went on one hike. And that was, that where the boy scouts were going to hike down there. I went on one hike, that was it. I didn’t go back anymore. No. That was it for the kid. “Why don’t you go up there?” Nope. Not going back. The scoutmaster was on the other side. He would come by, they would talk about he was “checking your belt,” see if you had your belt loose. And it was later on that I told my mom, I went to her because they related to some of our friends and stuff. In fact, he taught at the high school. But he was on the other side. And what got him in trouble, was one of the students, one of our classmates who was on the other side. Now, how that happened, I don’t know. He ratted him out to the people, that’s how he lost his job. But it’s real close, that’s why I’m not calling the name, because it’s real close to some people we talking about. Ocala’s a small town. I know you going to take some of this stuff out of here. There’s a lot of stuff y’all going to take out of here, just talking. Because people dead, and there’s no sense in, you know what I’m talking about? Causing any problem.

	M:	You can review it, let us know.



	H:	I think that’s—that we kind of exhausted—



	R:	Look at him! You ready to go! He must’ve got the email. You got a email there.



You got something hot, you got to get out of here!





	H:	No, no, I just didn’t want to—I know we kind of came, we wanted to come and talk to you, talk about some things, but we—

	R:	We can talk some more anytime, man. I got no problem. Unless y’all have got to go.

	M:	The one thing I was going to ask about was just the Blue Note, and some of the—

	R:	[Laughter] Who told you about the Blue Note, man? M:	It comes up. It comes up, now and then.

R:  The Blue Note. Boy, I’ll tell you, that’s something else! Brings back memories, Blue Note. When I first got out of Service, first place I get. I couldn’t get home quick enough to unpack. Blue Note. Never forget that. Mm-mm-mm.

M:   You remember any particular—



	R:	Yeah, can’t talk about it. [Laughter] Yeah, that was something else. Boy, I hadn’t seen a Black woman in two years. The Blue Note. I saw—that guy lived, the guy used to own it, he lived across the street from my wife’ aunt there in Ocala. He still barbecuing—he’s lot of barbecue, I barbecue, I don’t eat pork or beef but I cook for people. Yeah. Yeah, I think it’s “Milt” or something, we called him Milt.

Milton something. He and his sister used to run that place. But he still got a big old—he must still be catering or something. Because boy, every time I go to see my wife, that—we can smell over here, you can smell it.

	M:	So he’s still alive?



R:  Yeah. He live right across from my wife’ aunt there in Ocala. That was the last house, right there on the corner.





	M:	You think he’d talk to us?



	R:	Yeah, he’ll talk to you. Milt. I can’t think of his last name. He and his sister used to run the Blue Note. Real big guy, almost like a teddy bear. You know, he big, but always real nice to people and stuff. That was—yeah. Milt, Milt. I can’t think of the last name. I can see his face now.

	M:	But the Blue Note used to get James Brown and some of the—



	R:	Oh, man, they didn’t go to the Blue Note at all, no, no, no. Heck no. M:	Where did they go?

	R:	It was Dr. Lamb’ place—they couldn’t get in the Blue Note! How you going get James Brown in the Blue Note? Are we talking the same Blue Note, right up from—

	M:	I never saw it, I just heard it mentioned. Maybe I—I’m sorry, I’m thinking of, is it Club Bally?

	R:	Club Bally what you was thinking about. M:	That’s what I was—

	R:	Oh, James Brown was there almost every night. I thought he lived in Ocala at one time! Boy, he used to put on some shows there. I mean, he put on some shows. Like, he came almost—I mean, he was always there. And we was so crazy, we’d be home for summer. He’d come down to, we’d see him in Ocala, he’d go down there, and we’d jump in the car and—we didn’t have nothing to do anyway. Go down there. But man… James Brown, someone else used to come there a lot, too. Boy, they used to almost stay in Ocala. James Brown… There’s another group. I saw the Temptations here, came here.





	M:	In Tallahassee?



	R:	At the Savoy Club. I used live at Savoy Club. They used to have a Savoy Club not far from campus, and I would go out of the country and come back, and I would try up there before I would get home. And I’d call my wife, and I’d bring all this different liquors back, put them up on the bar. Because I was friends with people that owned the thing were friends of ours. They put my stuff up in the office, and I stayed down there and just had a good time, man. Old Farrell brothers used to run that place. His brother’s the one with the—Reverend Lee, Albert E. Lee, they in a big meeting somewhere, Reverend Lee. He’s been over there, Reverend Lee, for years. Ferrell, last name is Ferrell, F-E-R-R-E-L-L. But Savoy Club, I lived there. My son, he’s beyond hanging out with his dad. Get out of the frat house, we’d go to the Savoy Club. He’d be over there doing his homework. [Laughter] Boy, the first time I ever seen my wife get upset with him— all that money, all of the sudden, he decide he want to be a barber. She say, “What?” At first, she say, “What? A barber? Why you didn’t tell us that up front?” “Well it makes some money.” Then she realized—I said, “You know, at least he got his stuff. He want to go, [inaudible 02:00:34].” That’s the first time I ever see her upset with him. Boy, she was upset with him! That’s his daughter right there. Boy, you talking about vocabulary? Oh, my god! These kids now, man. And she know how to Google and all that, talking about, “Granddaddy!’ I say, “Google? I don’t know nothing about that.” “I’m’a text you. I said, “You want to text me?” Don’t text, email—before I left the state, I’m trying to sit in, be on a meeting, people talking about “Did you get my”—man, why didn’t you tell me? First thing I





do when I just get up there to the state building: delete, delete, delete. [Laughter] That was my first order of business—I didn’t even. Delete, delete. “You got—” “Nope. Didn’t receive anything. Must’ve been a malfunction. Didn’t receive anything.” Yeah, he got something going on in Gainesville! So, how close are you to finishing up?

	H:	I’m in my, going into my fifth year. So I’ll graduate next year. So I’m at the onset of the finish line .

	R:	What you planning to do after you done?



	H:	I want to teach at a community college or HBCU. R:	In Atlanta?

	H:	Doesn’t matter where. I think I’d rather be at D.C. area, or Chicago. R:	Really? Have you seen the crime rate lately in Chicago?

	H:	Yeah. I have family in Chicago, though, so. R:	They still living?

	H:	Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. [Laughter] They hanging on.



	R:	Hanging on, boy, I’ll tell you. But you guys can come back any time you want to, and later I can give you a call at some point.

	M:	Yeah, please do.



	R:	Maybe I’ll think of something—how long have you guys been working—y’all been working on this a long time, haven’t you?

	M:	Oh, yeah. We’re going to keep—and if you think of people we should talk to, we’re happy to talk to anybody.





	R:	And I may think of something that I, you know, couldn’t think of, because if I do I will write stuff down. But that’s a long time ago.

	M:	Oh, I understand.



	R:	[19]65—[19]61, [19]62—that’s when you’re young and crazy. Boy, but Atlanta was a good move for me! I’m glad I went. Met some good people. I’ve got a friend now, shoot—the dogs I been friends longer, over fifty-some years. More than that, over sixty years. And people, some people can’t understand that. Sixty- something years. Like when we got, jump on the thing, we rode for about seven days on the water, we just ride. Because my wife retired.

	H:	A cruise?



R:  Yeah, we rode about seven days. Yeah. H:  Well, anything you want to—

R:   Look at the tall guys, man ready to go! Hey, he got him a thing going, and boy, he got to get back. He got that email, he just, “Mmmm!” Look here: I saw all this up, “Mmmm!” [Laughter] Look here, you got to get back home! How long it take y’all to get here?

M:   About two and a half hours.



	H:	Yeah. We made, you know, pretty good time. M:	Yeah.

H:   No traffic or anything. No bad weather.



	R:	But you know, when things running right, I can go to Ocala in two and half. H:	Really?





	R:	When they let you ride. When they let you ride, I can go there. But I don’t speed too much anymore, because I—it just doesn’t make sense to get a speeding ticket. You know what I mean?

	M:	Yeah. No, that’s true.



	R:	Not what they charge for speeding tickets now! That’s really insane! Just giving



your money away. Man, I’m glad you guys came.



	H:	Hey, thank you for speaking with us.



	M:	Yeah, we’re glad to have done this. Thanks for hosting us and everything. H:	And tell Mrs. Rackard we said “Thank you,” too.

	R:	Oh, yeah. Yeah. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, December 10, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Holland Hall, March 2, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 26, 2019