AAHP 141; McGill; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 141 Gerald McGill

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Andre Everette on September 4, 2010 22 minutes | 13 pages



Abstract: This interview was conducted at the 2010 Black Alumni Weekend at the University of Florida. Gerald McGill was born in Longstool, Germany, to a father serving in the US Air Force and a mother who was a schoolteacher from South Carolina.

Moving with his father from military base to military base, he never had a single hometown but lived throughout the US. He describes how he ended up coming to UF, and his experiences on campus and memories of attending. He concludes with recommendations for future UF students.



[Keywords: African American History; University of Florida]























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 141

Interviewee: Gerald McGill Interviewer: Andre Everette Date: September 4, 2010



	E:	It’s September 4, I am at the Hilton at a Black Alumni Weekend Event and I am speaking with Gerald McGill. It’s nice to talk to you today. Before we begin, for the record could you state and spell your name please.

	M:	Gerald C. McGill. G-E-R-A-L-D. McGill M-C-G-I-L-L.



	E:	What is your date of birth? M:	May 15, 1960.

	E:	Where were you born? M:	Longstool, Germany.

	E:	Could you tell me about your parents?



M:  My dad was in the Air Force. He stayed in the Air Force for like thirty years. My mother she was a teacher. Her family is from South Carolina. His family is from New York. I was born in Germany, lived different places.

E:   Did you have any siblings?



M:  Yes, one brother, he’s five years older than me; one sister a year younger than me.

E:   How was life growing up for you?



	M:	It was pretty cool. Born in Germany, but I don’t remember Germany. I lived in California, Illinois, Florida, and South Carolina, Texas. Every three or four years had to move, so it was fine, everything was cool.

	E:	When you moved around you stayed on base?



M:  Right, lived on base until he retired in Tampa in like [19]75. I was fifteen. Then we lived off base.





	E:	How were race relations on base?



	M:	Everybody loved everybody. You had all different types of people: Asians, Latinos, Black, White when I was growing up. It wasn’t like living off the base. Everybody’s from somewhere else and all the kids got along pretty good.

	E:	What was school like?



	M:	It was fine, growing up on base. No kind of problems. E:	What schools were you considering as far as college?

	M:	Coming out from Tampa, South Florida, Florida, and Florida State. Those were really the three schools I applied to.

	E:	What about your friends, what schools were they looking at?



	M:	Most friends of high school going to A&M, Bethune Cookman. A couple was going out of state. A guy that was pretty smart went up to Northeast. I think I had a friend that went to Princeton. I don’t know how it turned out, I haven’t seen him in years. Mostly state schools.

	E:	How was it that your friends were pretty much looking at HBCUs, and you didn’t mention any?

	M:	I guess I went to mixed schools all my life. I never went to like an all-Black school. Plus, when I moved to Florida, I started watching Florida football. I’m a big sports fan I always liked the Gators. Really grew up as a USC fan, I always wanted to go to USC. I really wanted to go to USC. Living in Florida, and the expense and I wasn’t the smartest guy in the world. I just really liked Florida.

That’s probably the main reason, I know it might sound not too smart, but just like going to Florida. Plus it wasn’t too far away, a couple hours away from home.





	E:	What had you heard about UF?



	M:	To be honest with you, I didn’t really know anyone that came— let me take that back. My brother’s girlfriend, she was going to Florida. She’s a lawyer now. I would see her and she liked going up to Gainesville. I had another friend, who had a part-time job. He was going to Gainesville in the summer, in the winter, and the fall. In the summer he would work and he would come down. Never talked about school too much though. I really didn’t know anyone who went to school to talk to for a long time about if they liked it there.

	E:	What years did you attend UF? M:	[19]78 to [19]82.

	E:	How was it like when you first got here?



	M:	When I first got here, you know, people were fun, but I was just surprised that the first day of class you had work, books, all of this stuff to do. I thought the first couple of days you relaxed for a while. But they went right down to business. It was just the work. The work wasn’t that hard, but you just had to do it. There’s a lot of work to do.

	E:	Was there a lot of social activities for you here?



	M:	A lot of activities. I never joined any kind of fraternities. I just lived on campus and played a lot of dorm stuff. They had intramural football, go to the gym and shoot basketball. I didn’t really take part in a lot of different things.

	E:	What about your friends, their early experiences. The ones particularly that went on to FAMU, what were they telling you about their experiences?





	M:	Every guy that I talked to who went to Florida A&M, seemed like the first thing they talked about was all the women there and the parties. They didn’t say anything about education. That was the first thing they would talk about. All the good looking women, the parties, and that was it. So that was the main thing. Not saying they didn’t have a good education, but that was the first thing they talked about. Every guy. I always thought well they got girls everywhere, but education is something that last a lifetime.

	E:	How were race relations on campus at that time?



	M:	It was pretty cool. I always get along with everybody. I forgot on a Saturday night if you’re walking down the street, especially if you have a friend that’s Black, you might get someone that’s kind of drunk might yell out a racial slur. This was back in the early [19]80s. I’m sure they have people still doing that today. That was like the only thing, maybe once, twice a semester. I didn’t have a car so I would walk everywhere. It was just people being drunk and riding. I didn’t really take it personal. I never got jumped on or anyone got in my face.

	E:	What activities were you involved in here at UF?



	M:	Mainly just playing a lot of intramural sports, like dorm sports. I didn’t get involved in any kind of fraternities. All these different clubs, I didn’t get involved in any.

Really I just wanted to get my work done and graduate. That was my goal: in four years I want to get out of here. I didn’t want to take time to do a lot of other stuff and flunk out.

	E:	Tell me about the O’Connell Center situation. What was that like for you?





	M:	The only thing I know about O’Connell is the dome. I must have missed something.

	E:	Was there not a situation with naming it the O’Connell Center during that time?



	M:	I can’t remember. It used to be Alligator Alley. It might have been [19]80. I don’t remember any controversy about it. It might have been a big thing, but I don’t remember anything about the O’Connell Center.

	E:	What was a typical Friday night like for you?



	M:	Friday night? Back in the day I guess I would maybe go down to Alligator Alley or the gym. Shoot basketball, just hang out. Try to chase a couple of girls. Actually maybe back then running from them. Just relaxing mainly, I didn’t really do too much. I never was one to go out to all these little dances. I just never was the type. I mainly just stayed in and relaxed.

	E:	What were some of the hot spots for Black students at the time?



	M:	All of these fraternities would have I guess the Ratskeller, they would have different places where they had different jams. Since I wasn’t going to go I didn’t know where they had ‘em at. A lot of people go off campus. I used to always hear when you go off campus, people who didn’t go to the University of Florida didn’t like you. So you might get into some trouble. That was back then, I don’t know if that was true or not.

	E:	Did you ever have any of those experiences?



	M:	Nope, only had one bad experience. I was a freshman. I was coming through a door and the dude kicked the door. It was a White dude from New York. He kicked the door and almost hit me. He looked at me like yeah I kicked the door





what you going to do about it. Instead of saying excuse me, I’m sorry something made me mad. I don’t think that was nothing personal. Something made him mad, I don’t know what he was mad about. He just stared at me like he wanted to do something. Looking back I thought it was pretty funny. I didn’t have a quick temper, but some people probably would have got into a fight over that. That’s the only thing I can remember that could have been a problem.

	E:	How was the Black Student Union?



	M:	To be honest with you I didn’t know. I wasn’t a member, I didn’t go to any kind of meetings. I guess I was kind of a bore. I didn’t get involved in a lot of that political stuff. Main thing, like I said earlier, I just wanted to get out, go to school, and just have a good time. Just be happy. I just love being happy.

	E:	Did they have a presence on campus? Did you read anything about them? Any fliers? Did anybody ever come up to you and say come to a meeting?

	M:	Only person I remember that was kind of like that was Eugene Pettis. I remember him in school. He was always active about different things. I never really was close to him to go with him or anything. They probably was active, but I don’t remember anything about them too much.

	E:	I know you said you didn’t get involved with Greek Life, but was it a big deal on campus?

	M:	In my opinion, that’s for a person who’s kind of lonely and needs friends. I might be saying it wrong. Or if your dad’s an Alpha and his dad was an Alpha, so it’s a tradition to be an Alpha. Now they do a lot of good things I’m sure. But when I was in school it’s like only thing I heard about was doing some bad things





sometimes. Making guys do all kinds of crazy stuff. Get these girls and pass them around. I don’t know if it’s true or not. I can’t remember if it was the Sigmas or the Kappas, they’d all get together and take a bath in a bath house. I don’t know, kind of on the gay side. Just some of the torture they had to go through. I said nah it’s not for me. I guess it brings a strong bond of unity. If that’s what a person wants to do, good for them. I guess they were doing pretty good. I’m sure they went out in the community and helped people maybe the elderly get to the grocery store. Lot of times, when you do something bad, that gets all the headlines. When you do something good, nobody knows about it.

	E:	How do you think the White students received them? M:	Me? Of Blacks in general?

	E:	No, the Greek Life on campus.



	M:	I don’t know because they had fraternities. I think they had a couple of mixed fraternities. As far as I know everybody got along pretty good. It might have been a little problem the first week of school when they have orientation. The frat houses open and you can maybe try to join the big frat houses. I think it might have been a problem with some Blacks go there, drink all the liquor and try to talk to White girls. Someone had problems with that, I guess. I never went, but I heard people talk about that sometimes.

	E:	What were some of the big events during the year? What was something you looked forward to or maybe that other people looked forward to?

	M:	For some reason I always loved Gator Growl. I thought Gator Growl was real good. Just football games and basketball games. Lot of times they had the Gator





Relays, that was always pretty good. Those were the big things I really looked forward to.

	E:	Were the games free or did they charge you?



	M:	The Gator Growl? I believe the Gator Relays were free back then, you show your student card.

	E:	What about the football and basketball games?



	M:	Yeah, you paid for that. It was real cheap with the student ticket, the student discount. At least back then. That was fun.

	E:	How did that system work?



	M:	Every semester they had like a fee. You have like a fee card, activity card I forgot what they called it. When the season starts they say from this day we’ll start taking season tickets from students. You’d just go to the, I guess at the football stadium, and you would just show them your card and you would get your tickets.

	E:	Was it enough that everyone who wanted to go could go?



M:  Yeah. Back then the games weren’t as good as they are today. Everybody could get in the games with no problem. Football games, basketball games, they didn’t sell out. You could get your ticket the day of the game.

E:   Did the school really rally around the sports teams?



	M:	Yeah. Well of course, you had maybe a guy from Miami or a guy from Tallahassee who hated the Gators. Maybe got a scholarship and they’d cheer for the other team, year round. But that was no big deal, nobody punched them in the face or nothing. That was always interesting. Everyone is cheering for the





Gators, and if they’re playing another team they get a first down they go, “Yeah, yeah.” Everybody looks up like, “What’s wrong with that dude?”

	E:	What about the locals. Did they support the sports teams too?



	M:	Looking back I think most of the local people was into the Gators. Only thing I used to hear sometimes was the local guys didn’t like the college guys. I guess they figured the guys was better than them. Maybe some of them did kind of look down to them. That’s the only time I think that might’ve been a problem. I never experienced it myself. Sometimes you hear stuff. At night you might not want to be walking around town wearing a University of Florida shirt or hat, unless you can blend in. That was years ago.

	E:	Where did you get haircuts?



	M:	That’s an excellent question. Where did I get haircuts from? I assume that I went to, what’s that called, starts with an R. It has a bowling alley. Reitz Student Union. I believe I got a haircut there. You had a lot of guys that cut each other, guys had their own clippers. I believe I got a haircut there. I need a haircut now. But I believe I went to the Reitz Student Union.

	E:	Where did you eat?



M:  I ate a lot of times at the Reitz Student Union. At Crystal’s, it was by the library. Across the street was a Crystal’s and Hardee’s at the time. I just ate mainly on campus and little fast food places.

E:  What about other stuff, some things that campus just didn’t offer. Where did you go to get those things?





	M:	Like I said I didn’t have a car, I had friends had cars. I rarely went off campus.



One time some guys, we went to some lake around here. I think it’s near Archer or somewhere about twenty or thirty minutes from here. It’s a spring and that water is cold. This was some holiday, some guys didn’t even know. He had a van it was like Black and White people went down there to the spring. I don’t know where it was at, but it was pretty fun. That’s the only time I really remember going off campus and having a good time. Mainly everything was right here on campus.

	E:	Who was the president of the University at that time?



	M:	Robert Q. Marston if I’m not mistaken. I think his name’s Marston. Robert Q. Marston. He was the President.

	E:	How did the students feel about him?



	M:	I guess he was okay. Or was it Criser. I think it was Robert Marston, if I’m not mistaken. I said this guy named Marshall Criser, I remember his name. I think Robert Marston was the president at that time. There were no complaints about him. Nobody that I can remember really complained about a lot of stuff.

Everybody was young and just trying to get through school. Being young just trying to have a good time.

	E:	What was your major?



	M:	Marketing. Business Marketing.



	E:	Was that a common major for Black students? What were your classes like? M:	It’s kind of funny. When you’re a freshman, the first thing you ask somebody,

“Hey what’s your major, what you’re going to get into?” And it’s like, “Oh I want to be a doctor. I want to be an engineer.” Lot of people want to be a doctor or





engineer. Then the first quarter, freshman chemistry they just weed out so many people. Next time you see them it’s, “Oh I want to be a school teacher,” or “I want to be in sociology or psychology.” I think everything was pretty much spread out. When you first got there everyone had these big goals of being a doctor. Then you see all that math you have to take, all this science, it’s like, “Heck no. To heck with that. I’ll try to find something easier.” It was a good amount of Blacks in business. I guess back them computers were real big. Just getting into Computer Science, that’s what they called it.

	E:	How often did you go back home?



	M:	I went home, say in a semester, maybe twice as semester. Maybe ten times a year I guess. I went to school all the summers also. I went to school year round.

	E:	When did you first say to yourself I’m a Gator? When did you first feel like a Gator?

	M:	I guess when I got through the freshman year. I’ll never forget the first class I took. It was freshmen English and the professor was Christopher Snodgrass. Never forget this guy. He gave you all these books the first day. The second day of class he was standing right by the door with a watch. Most classes in college they don’t care if you get there late or whatever. This guy he stood there with a watch. At eight o’clock he shuts that door. [Laughter] Which I thought was hilarious. Had people trying to push the door trying to get in, he’s pushing to keep the door shut. This guy, he just had so much work to do. He was real critical of everybody. That’s when I said, “Oh no I think I might flunk out of school if every class is like this.” After I got through that freshman year I said, “Yeah I think I can





handle this.” It was just rough. I guess that’s what happens. The first part they have all that work for you to do to weed out the people who aren’t serious.

Everyone was smart, everybody can do it. It’s just that some people don’t like to work.

	E:	What is it like to come back to UF now?



	M:	When I first started coming back it brought back memories. Like man I can’t believe I used to sit all day and study and read, I was glad to be away. It’s good to come back now, I love coming back. It’s good to see everything. Everybody looks so young. They look like high school kids. I say boy time really flies. It’s good to come back and just look at everything.

	E:	Being here now, do you feel a sense of community or a sense of achievement?



	M:	Yeah, only sometime it’s amazing when you come back. I’m not rich, I’m not poor. Some of the guys you went to school with, it’s like man he got this, he got that, doing real good. I’m always amazed at how well some people are doing. You figure you do pretty good once you finish school. You talk to people who like, I mean real good, like, man! Not to say jealous, but it’s like, “Dang, wish I was like that.” Overall I’m happy. I’m just amazed at how some people do real well once they finish school. Not everybody. It’s just amazing how—I’m just in awe.

	E:	What advice would you give to students today?



	M:	First thing I’d say is just buckle down and get your work done. You got all the time to play. Average guy that’s eighteen nineteen years old first thing on his mind is, boy, these women; which, they’re out there. But just work hard, just get your work done. Have a good time every now and then. Just know your limits.





Once you finish and accomplish your goals, then you can go out have a good time and get buck wild. Until then just relax, take it easy, and just try to enjoy life. Do what you want to do, do what you feel. Don’t try to follow other people. Some guy walking around with his pants hanging down off his rear end, that doesn’t mean you have to do it. Just work hard and be honest. Don’t try to cheat nobody. Best advice I have is just make sure you’re ready to work hard and take care of business first.

	E:	Are there any other thoughts you’d like to share?



	M:	No, I like this interview. This is a good process. I’m sure if you talk to twenty people you probably have twenty different opinions. It is interesting to sit down and just talk to people about this. It’s a good thing. It’s probably hard to get people to come in here and talk because they want to do eighteen other things. But it’s good. I enjoyed it.

	E:	Well Gerald, that’s all the questions that I have for you and that concludes this interview.

	M:	Okay, appreciate it. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Andre Everette, January 11, 2011 Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, October 26, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019