AAHP 574A; Anderson; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 574A Isaac Anderson 10-8-1996 Interviewed by Unknown Interviewer on October 8, 1996

46 Pages



Abstract: Judge Isaac Anderson speaks about growing up in South Florida. His was one of the last generations in segregated schools.



Keywords: [African American History; Segregation; Dunbar High School; Judicial System]



AAHP 574A

Interviewee: Isaac Anderson Interviewer: ?

Date of Interview: October 8, 1996





	I:	Okay, this is October 8, 1996, and we’re at Judge Isaac Anderson’s chambers in the court house. Office in the court house, I guess.

	A:	Yeah, that’s correct.



	I:	And we are continuing our interviews [telephone ring] regarding the experiences of students who attended Williams and Dunbar High School. In this case, it’s going to be Dunbar. There’s no Williams history here, unless it’s gonna be parents or grandparents. And we’ll get started with our questions. I think the first thing I would like to ask if you’ll just give us some biographical data about where you were born in Dunbar and some information about your parents or grandparents, whoever the first people were who came and lived in this area in your family.

	A:	Well, I was born here in Fort Myers in July 11, 1946 on Thomas Street. I’m not sure whether it was Thomas Street or not, but I know that’s where [inaudible 1:13] Wells, the midwife, delivered on occasion. I’m one of her deliverees. My mother’s name was Margaret Anderson. My father’s name is Isaac, obviously.

	I:`	Mother’s maiden name?



	A:	Davis. And she came down here with her mother from Dawson—D-A-W-S-O-N— Georgia, where she was born. She along with a sister and two brothers moved down to this area.

	I:	And their names or [inaudible 2:00]—



	A:	Charlie, Willie, and Strauffoli. And what year they came down? I:	Roughly.







	A:	It was after 1926, but when our mother moved down she was maybe five years old so it must’ve been around 1931.

	I:	Depression.



	A:	Yeah, Depression.



	I:	Do you know why they came?



	A:	No, I don’t, but I do know they moved out from Dawson, Georgia and that’s not exactly a Mecca for economic development. [Laughter]. Posterity. So I suspect it was probably because of the economics. So, upon moving down, she met—well, growing up and eventually she met—my father, Isaac, who had come down from South Carolina where he grew up with his brothers and sisters, his mother. Viola Barr Anderson was her name, who died in 1987, or [19]88, and she was one hundred and four at the time. She had four children, or five children, and my father was the youngest of the crew. Now, my mother and father were married in—

	I:	Do you know the names of the Anderson family? Viola Barr Anderson’s children? A:	Yes.

	I:	Or what years she might’ve come?



	A:	My grandmother’s, they didn’t come down. Well, she came down eventually. She moved out to Miami. That’s where she died. She was living over in Liberty City with one of her grandchildren. One of her daughters, rather. Now, she had a daughter named Susan; we called her Sudie. And she had her daughter named Elizabeth; we call her Elizabeth. And she had my father, Isaac, and she had his brother. I can’t think of his name, but anyway—







	I:	[inaudible 4:15]



	A:	It would’ve been an uncle. Can’t think of his name. And then there was also another brother. So there was three boys and two girls born to Viola Barr Anderson. And my father being the youngest. But as a result of the union of my mother and my father, we have Mary Francis Pierce, Viola Anderson—these are sisters—and myself, Isaac.

	I:	And you’re the youngest? A:	Yes.

	I:	Do you know what year that the Andersons came to Fort Myers?



	A:	No, I don’t. I don’t know when my father came down. I don’t know that, but I do distinctly recall growing up over in an area down off Cuba Street and Ford, down right at the end of Cuba Street where the edge of Franklin Park is. There’s a canal that runs east and west. It’s [inaudible 5:28] dead ends. We lived on the right of the west side of the street there, and we use to farm and raise pigs and things like that out there. My grandmother.

	I:	Your grandmother raised them?



	A:	My maternal grandmother. Not my paternal, Viola Barr. I:	The Davis?

	A:	Yeah, Mary Jones Davis. [Laughter] I:	Mary Jones Davis.

	A:	Right.



	I:	She raised the crops and raised the pigs and that sort of thing or? A:	Yes.







	I:	And so it was farming country out there.



	A:	Yeah, it was farm. It wasn’t, you know, big farm or nothing. Just little plots of land and little crops. Family crop, I guess you would call it. Family plot. And we grew up there along with my aunt Strauffoli and her husband, Barney Clark. Her name was Strauffoli, but she eventually is Strauffoli Clark, after she married Barney.

And they had five kids, I guess, and they were Joyce, Henrietta. There was Mary Jean. There was David. Actually, there were four. There were four of them. Three girls and a boy, and they raised them. They were next door, and across the street there were other folk that we knew. Well, they’ve been long gone now [inaudible 7:06]. But from there, I do recall going to elementary school over at Dunbar Elementary School, which was down on—which is down on—High Street. And I recall recently, when they had the ceremony of moving Williams Academy building over to the Hammon Library property. I said, “That’s not the Williams Academy building.” [Laughter]. Yes, it’s not. It’s the band building, and I do recall going to school in portions of that building. Mrs. Thurman was my first grade teacher. Meriel, Myrtle, Miriam? Myrtle Thurman. Myrtle Thurman, yes, who was married to Johnny Thurman. I mean, you always remember your first grade teacher [Laughter]. No matter what. And those were some great times. But eventually, we moved out of there and we went over to Franklin Park Elementary School, which was for me, I was going back home because I went right across the ditch from where I lived. From there on to Dunbar High School again, but only this time they moved it from High Street to Edison. Now, I don’t know if I’ve given you enough here.







	I:	No, that’s great, but what year did you go from Dunbar Elementary to Franklin Park?

	A:	Well, I figure I was in first grade in about [19]52—[19]51 or [19]52—so it must’ve been either [19]55 or [19]56. Well, fifty-two plus six is fifty-eight. [19]57, [19]58.

	I:	Fourth grade maybe?



	A:	Well, yeah. No, I was in sixth grade. I’m saying when I left sixth grade from [19]52 plus six is [19]58. I would’ve been out at the Dunbar school because at the time. No, yeah. I guess it would’ve been there, yeah.

	I:	When you began school did you, and Mrs. Thurman was your teacher, did you walk to school?

	A:	Yes, we walked.



	I:	Was there busing? Or did you live too close?



	A:	Whether we lived too close or not, it didn’t matter to me as best I could remember because as a kid that age, the idea of going to school was the excitement of getting out there with your friends, you know? And every day it was an adventure just trying to make it. And I do recall having seen buses, but buses didn’t matter to me. I didn’t ride the bus, no. To answer your question, no, I didn’t, but I do know kids were bused in. Black kids were bused from Punta Gorda. They were bused in from Naples. They were bused in I think as far south as south of Naples, Everglade City, down in that area. As far as high schools are concerned, a school in Fort Myers, Dunbar, was the largest Black school in the entire area, you know, south of Sarasota. Kids came in from Punta Gorda. If you lived in







southern Sarasota County, well they probably bused you up to Booker High School in Sarasota. But no, we weren’t bused when I was a kid in high school.

	I:	In your lifetime, too, when you were in high school, kids—your fellow students— were bused from that far away?

	A:	Yeah, until I graduated—no, I take that back—until I was probably a sophomore—maybe a junior—in high school when Charlotte County got smart and said, “This is ridiculous. Why do we pay this money to Lee County for busing these Black kids down there?” And it’s gonna cost us money to pay ‘em for them to get there FTEs, full time educational equivalence that they give schools for kids attending. Lee County was getting a benefit, and Charlotte County was losing. So Charlotte County desegregated its school before Lee County, and that happened before I graduated from high school because I remember some of our best basketball players and best football players. Some of the smartest kids in the classes [laughter] were from Charlotte County. And then all of a sudden, they weren’t coming there anymore. But where are they going? They went to Charlotte High. A good friend of mine—he would’ve graduated with me—his name was Nightingale. Evan Nightingale. Eventually, he was a plumber. I mean, not a plumber but a butcher. He was no longer in our graduating class. They transferred him to a high school in Charlotte County, and I think it was Charlotte High. So, yeah. They changed, and they were smart, before I graduated from high school.

	I:	And you must’ve graduated about in? A:	[19]64.







	I:	[19]64 and integration didn’t come to Fort Myers— A:	Until after I graduate.

	I:	Until after you were gone. A:	Right.

	I:	So you were one of the last classes of segregated graduates. We’ve covered a lot of material with our interviews, in our work sessions to this point, which underlines the impact that the fact that Dunbar High, and Williams Academy even before it, represented a much higher level of education than the surrounding areas between Tampa and Miami and the sort of impact that seems to have had on its students. How did that sort of thing appear to you in your lifetime?

	A:	Now, you know, experiencing it, it didn’t occur to me it was what it was or that it was having an effect on me that would last a lifetime. And I say that because to be able to walk to school, to be able to go down two or three blocks to the teacher’s house and go in her garage and practice a school play, and to be run off because I was two minutes late, it taught me discipline [Laughter]. That was Mrs. Jones, Mrs. Jimmy Lee Jones; I will never forget her. But that sort of thing was very important to me as a young man coming up, a young person trying to understand Nancy Simms. Nancy Simms is her daughter. Levahn Simms is her son-in-law, okay? But there was a thing that I benefited from even to this day.

Folk, I just left court before I became down here. Some of the lawyers were complaining because I start at eight o’clock in the morning, and if they come tooling in at two minutes after 8:01, meaning after eight, I put them at the foot of the docket, and they don’t like it. “I don’t, judge, I’m only a”—“Look, eight o’clock







is the starting time, and we start at eight. If you’re at eight, you get treated the same.” Well, that probably goes back to Mrs. Jones [Laughter]. I’ll blame it on her, but you know, that was important. It was important also to be able to sing in the choir. It was important to be able to play football, baseball, you know? To learn that that you could learn from all the people around you, from the kids who were quote, today we call them “intellectually challenged,” [Laughter] whatever the politically correct term is. But we all thrust and all in one environment and we all benefited and learned and suffered from each other. It was a tremendous experience, and it taught us all so much. See because in addition to that, I’d like to think it gave us a sense of being able to accomplish something—or rather, gave you a desire something—and if you accomplished it, you knew that there was always gonna be somebody either peaking over your shoulder and patting you and saying, “That a boy.” Giving you a pat on the back, and that’s important to most people. You know, most of the bad kids I see, even the juvenile delinquents today, if you tell them say, “Hey, son, I like what you did. I’m really impressed,” even those really kids they kind of, “Whoa, thank you.” It makes them feel good. It was an atmosphere where if you’re screwed up, if you didn’t do right, it wasn’t just throw the bastards out and be done with them. You were here to learn, and we were gonna make sure that you learn or we’re going to do our best to teach you. If you didn’t, well, we fail, but we’re not gonna just throw you out. If you’ve got thrown out of school, it was something terrible. I mean, like girls wearing [inaudible 16:46]. You got thrown out of school for that outfit [Laughter]. I say that in jest, but—







	I:	It was there in spirit.



	A:	Yes. The point, exactly. The point is, that it was very regimented, very strict, rule- oriented environment, and you learn. I wouldn’t have—if I could change it now—I probably wouldn’t have changed it. It’s an experience that other people miss. For example, some of my colleagues today who raised here my age, they went to school at Fort Myers High. And we’ll would be in a party or something, and well talking to a stranger and they’ll say, “Oh yeah, I went to Fort Myers High and that was the high school in town at the time.” [Clears throat] “Excuse me? That’s not so.” I mean—

	I:	There was this other school.



	A:	Exactly. And we were good. We had the best band. We had the best football team. We lost; I take that back. I’m exaggerating when I say football team because the only time in the history of school I think we went oh and nine and that was the year I was a senior I think. At any rate, we were as bad as Tampa Bay. But we had teamwork, you know? It was a team; we worked together. And it was an interesting experience.

	I:	You were born at—and we’ve interviewed who were on the first Dunbar High School team, Jacob Johnson—

	A:	Okay, I remember Johnson, yes.



	I:	Johnson’s team started in 1931, and we spent a lot of time talking about the football team and the impact it had in those early years when there was not compulsory school attendance. There was no law to that effect. One of the principles, particularly, we’ve talked about Professor Dixen got those big boys







who could be making money out in fields and probably there was a good deal of pressure too. They were young men, employable age, and he got those students back to be his football team. That was one of the draws that the team meant so much. And when you were in high school, you had a team with a twenty-year tradition.

A:  Oh, I didn’t realize that it was that strong or that old, but you right. We did have a reputation. The school did have a reputation for being a very good football team. I mean, we would play schools out of Miami. We’d play schools out of Tampa.

You know, we played big schools. Here little ole’ Fort Myers, little ole’ Dunbar would take on these big schools, and we’d beat them. But that was important. I do recall that my best experience at—well, it’s not my best, but I remember one experience on the football team. When I first made the team as a freshman, they ran out of jerseys, and so I was the only, cause school colors were green and gold, right?

	I:	Right.



	A:	I was the only one with a white sweatshirt on with red numbers drawn on [Laughter]. I was a freshman, but I was proud [Laughter]. I was the proudest kid on that team, but that was an experience. It didn’t matter what I looked like or whether I looked like the rest. The point is I was on the team. I made the team. So let’s move on, doctor [Laughter]

	I:	Well, did you play four years in high school? Did you— A:	Yeah. I played—

	I:	Also participate in the band as a member?







	A:	I played four years. I tried to play in the band. I played the— I:	That looks like a tuba. Or a French horn.

	A:	No. French horn. I tried—



	I:	I’m looking up. [inaudible 20:33]



	A:	Exactly. I tried to play the French horn, didn’t do very well. I quit. [Laughter] But I was on the choir. I participated in the track team and, you know, that sort of thing. Football. Tried a little baseball. Swam a little. But those were the kinds of activities that I participated in.

	I:	We’ve also learned in the course of our work that your school colors were chosen by Professor Dixen because they were Florida A&M’s colors. And the football team wore those colors.

	A:	Yeah.



	I:	And I guess always did thereafter.



	A:	I think it was my junior year, or was my sophomore year, that the first time I’d ever. I heard so much. All these people are going to Florida A&M and talked about Florida A&M and how terribly great their band was. I think it was my sophomore year they came down, and they performed in Davanee Stadium at half time, and I had never seen anything like that in my life. [Laughter] Those guys were marching in formation with such power and such precision and playing so well. It’s so strong.

	I:	Fast.



	A:	Yes. Yes, yes. And I was absolutely flabbergasted. I said, “This is incredible.” I want to join the band. I didn’t. [Laughter]







	I:	Well, as you went along through school, you’re a different time. You’re a completely different time than the other people we have interviewed. You being born in [19]46, you are at a milestone that all these older people look back on and say—

	A:	That’s what the president said the other night to Bob Dole, but go ahead [Laughter] We were both born in [19]46. No, I’m sorry. Go ahead.

	I:	And their comment was when they all came back from World War II service, and almost everybody was interviewed. Almost everybody was enlisted. That things had changed. Dramatically different because they’ve gone off in the service, came back in [19]46, and were really disappointed that things hadn’t changed in the segregated community. And in fact, they expected as they went off, when they came back there would be a different world. You were a little person, but you must’ve heard that sort of thing as you were growing up.

	A:	Well, not only did I hear that, but I experienced it. Upon graduation from high school, I went off to college for a year. My mother died in January of [19]65, the middle of my freshman year in college. And so I dropped out at the end of that year and went into the military. Went into the Air Force three years, three months, twenty-seven days, okay? I spent my time. In the course of that military experience, I went to Vietnam and served my time over there and served the country and came back. Upon returning, I was determined to finish my education. I enrolled at Edison. I was discharged on September 10, 1968. I enrolled— maybe it September 9 or 10—at Edison earlier. Classes started the following day upon my discharge, which meant I drove from Tampa, MacDill Air Force Base, to







Fort Myers. Put down my bags, washed, and started class that night I literally got out. And I was looking for a job part-time. So I looked on the bulletin board out there at the school, and there was a thing up there. The guy says, “Survey helper wanted.” And I pulled the card. I called the number. The guy says, “Oh, well, you sound like”—that with military experience and I’m in school and all this sort of stuff—and he said, “Well, you sound like the kind of guy I need. What I would like for you to do if you would is meet me down at my office.” And his office was downtown Fort Myers on First Street, across from the Patio de Leon. He told me where it was. He says, “Meet me there at seven-thirty in the morning and we’ll talk about the job and we’ll get you started.” I showed up about 7:20. I was there waiting. [Inaudible 24:56] wear some of your military boots cause you’ll be walking around in the mud with the snakes and such. Well, I did, and I stood there. About 7:25 I saw this Jeep go by, and this White fellow was driving it, and he drove by slowly, and he sped up and went around the corner and parked at the other side of the Patio de Leon and went in the restaurant and sat there in the window and waited. And waited. And I waited. And he waited. And I waited. And he waited. We waited. So at about ten minutes to eight, he finally got up. I guess he figured I wasn’t gonna leave so he came out and walked over to the office.

And he said that “You’re Isaac Anderson.” I said, “I sure am.” He said, “Well, uh you know, I didn’t know you were colored.” I said, “Well, I do.” And he said, “Well, I didn’t recognize you on the phone.” I said, “What do you mean you didn’t recognize me on the phone?” “I can’t hire you is what I’m telling you.” I said, “You can’t hire me? Why not? I’m just going to be holding a stick in the mud with the







snakes. What do you mean you can’t hire me?” “I’ll lose all my business in Fort Myers if I hire you.” I said, “Okay. Fine. I’m out of here.” I walk. I was angry. I was upset. But this was 1968, all right? Right here in Fort Myers. And, well, I know the name of the company. I haven’t forgotten the name of the company, and they’re still in business right here in Fort Myers. But yes, I know what those people experienced, and it is very disheartening. It sorta just takes your stomach right out from you, but those experiences happen and makes you a better person.

You’re stronger. You know there’s something better down the road, and it always happens.

	I:	What did you do for that part-time job?



	A:	What did I do as a result of that? Well, I don’t—I remember. I went to work at Eastern Airlines, remember them? They’ve gone bankrupt. They’ve gone under [Laughter]. They were out here at Page Field. I was out there unloading the aircraft as it came in, and I worked for them part-time, but that was it. I did that for a year, and then I was out of Edison.

	I:	And yet, I’m looking at you today, Circuit Court Judge in a community where you were met with that kind of reaction as a young man about to start his education. And you’re still here, and obviously, you succeeded.

	A:	Oh, that’s all relative when you say, “You succeeded.” [Laughter]



	I:	Obviously, you chose to stay here. I’m thinking of a young man who met that kind of a rebuff, getting out of Vietnam service, who might then have gotten on the first bus to Chicago or Indianapolis or D.C. or somewhere.







	A:	I didn’t know anybody in Chicago. I didn’t know anybody in D.C. or New York. You know, this is home. And I appreciate what you’re saying. I’m not putting down what you’re saying by any stretch of the imagination, and I can imagine—

	I:	You felt tied to home?



	A:	Well, yeah. I felt like, you know, this is my home and nobody is going to run me away from it. This is mine. And I have as much right to be here as anyone else. That’s why when I finished my education I didn’t—I wasn’t educated here in Florida. I graduated eventually from Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, and then

D.C. at the American University Law School. I came back.



	I:	What took you to Oxford, Ohio?



	A:	Well, military. When I was in Vietnam, my company commander was a Miami graduate and he said, “Listen, guys, if you ever need me, let me know, right?” You don’t say things like that to me unless you mean it, okay? And if I need you, I’ll call on you. Well, when I came back from Vietnam—or before I came back from Vietnam—he left, and they assigned him to the Pentagon. That was when he made that statement. “If I could ever help you guys, let me know.” Well, he did hear from me, and it was within six months or so after he left. I got orders that they were transferring me from Vietnam to northern Japan, up in the mountains. To Okinawa Air Force Base, they call it. And I said, “Uh-uh. I don’t want to go back to no more isolated duty after Vietnam.” From the heat to the freezing mountains of Japan, I just couldn’t handle that. So I called him, and he got my orders changed and then I was transferred from Vietnam to MacDill. And so I get out. My fiancé, whom I had met previously, she calls me, while I’m here at Fort







Myers—now my wife—she says, “Well, I got a graduate assistantship at Miami, and I am coming to Florida.” I said, “Oh, are you now? Now, what was the name of that school again?” She said, “Miami University.” I said, “I don’t know. You better look real close. It says ‘University of Miami’ down here.” And lo and behold, it was in Oxford, Ohio. Well, I said, “Honey, you’re not coming. Sorry.” But that’s another little story. And so, I finish Edison. Well, we get married in the spring, wind up in Oxford. I’m not in school. I don’t have any money. She’s there, I’m, you know. Lo and behold, my company commander happens to be from Oxford. He’s in town visiting. He comes by a store, a little Roland’s Super Value Store. That’s where I was working part-time. And you know, we started talking.

He said, “Well, I think I can probably get you some money to go to school here.” I said, “Okay.” So he did. He talked to a man by the name of John Dollaboy, and, lo and behold, I got money to go to school in Miami, and that’s how I wound up in Miami, so.

	I:	That’s such a beautiful school. A:	It is, absolutely.

	I:	I did my undergraduate work at Kent State University, and I was on that campus once—

	A:	When were you at cam—



	I:	And I still remember it. [19]60s. Even late [19]50s, early [19]60s. A:	Okay, all right. It’s an absolute gorgeous campus.

	I:	Say gorgeous. It’s a picture book beautiful school.







	A:	They’ve subsumed Western College for Women across the street. It’s now a part of Miami—across twenty-seven—and it is almost idyllic. It’s the school that you would imagine—

	I:	It’s the quintessential school, it is—



	A:	Cecil B. DeMille’s description of what college— I:	It is ideal. It’s what they should look like.

	A:	That’s what it looks like.



	I:	And if you ever go on the campus, you wish you could go to school here because it’s great, although it’s interesting that it’s conspired to educate you there.

	A:	I think fate pushed me back. I:	How ‘bout American?

	A:	How ‘bout it?



	I:	American University.



	A:	Okay, American University. I, upon completion of the two and a half years there at Miami, I was on a push then. I finished one year, and then two and a half, three. I’m out in three and a half years. I finish my undergraduate work. I applied to law school. Needless to say, I had a little ego going for me. I only applied to Harvard, Yale, Berkley, and Chicago law school, and I was rejected at Harvard, Yale, Berkley, and Chicago [Laughter]. And then I got a little realistic. I said, okay, let’s talk about second tier [Laughter].

	I:	[Laughter] That’s great.



	A:	So, I got accepted at University of Iowa, American University, and then, I don’t know. Another school. Somewhere in the East. So I said, well, first of all, it was







getting late in the year. Iowa came first. So we packed up and says, “Let’s go to Iowa City.” We drove out to cross Illinois—well, Indiana, Illinois—and up to Iowa. Went to Iowa City and looked there. It’s a beautiful place, but I’d never seen corn as tall as this building. It’s the damnedest place you’ve ever been in your life [Laughter]. But, we got an apartment, we signed the lease and everything. We were ready to go there. And we went back to Oxford to pack our stuff to go back to University of Iowa. Well, in the meantime, we had heard from the American University. Do you really want to go back out there where corn is as high as an elephant’s eye? Not really. So we went east to American University in D.C. Got there, didn’t have a place to stay. Had no apartment. Washington has probably the lowest vacancy rate in the country, and of course, this didn’t occur to us. We were young, we were in love. We didn’t care. So as we were driving in, I think we were on Route 50 coming out of Virginia across from West Virginia, through Virginia, into D.C. Or Maryland, rather, into D.C. It occurs, “Where are we gonna stay at?” I don’t know. Have we got any relative here? I think I got a cousin somewhere [Laughter]. So, we find a cousin, and God bless Ida. Ida Washington. Ida Belle Washington. She put up with this for three weeks, and during that three week period, we went door to door in apartments all over Washington until we found. Some lady said, “Y’all got to be the dumbest people I’ve ever seen.” And it happened to us because on that particular day when we pulled up in front of the apartment complex and we were inside talking, someone popped our trunk lid and stole some of our things out of my truck, and I went back. “Can I use your phone? Somebody just stole our stuff.” I think she felt sorry for us [Laughter] so







she gave us an apartment, and we stayed there for two and a half years. It was in northwest Washington 1801. No, 2901 Eighteenth Street, northwest Washington. Just behind the National Zoo, Connecticut, and Rock Creek Park right over there. Two years, two and a half years of law school instead of three. Man, I was doing it summer. Each summer I went to law school.

	I:	So you did undergraduate at Miami— A:	Miami.

	I:	And law school at America in six years. A:	[Sigh] Yeah.

	I:	You didn’t have a lot of time to fool around, did you?



	A:	No, no. We were very busy, and doing all of the things that students— I:	Students do.

	A:	Yeah.



	I:	And then what? You have at that point a lot of options.



	A:	Had a lot of options. Hallie, I could’ve gone to New York. In matter of fact, I’d been up to New York and looked around. Talked to people. Some classmates of mine were moving up to New York and working there. As a matter of fact, I think I lost my son to New York, or my oldest son. He’s gone. I don’t think he’ll ever come back this way, he says. He wants to be an investment banker. He’s getting a Master’s in Finance, okay, right about now. I don’t think he’ll be back, but not withstanding that, had options in New York, Washington, and Carolina. Audrea said about that time, “You know, all this time we’ve been married, we never lived in Carolina.” I says, “Okay, we’ll go to Carolina.” She’s from South Carolina. So







we went to South Carolina. We stayed there a year and a half. I said, “Darlin’, I love South Carolina, but I hear the siren calling down at Fort Myers, you know?” So we came back. I started out by working part-time—well, actually, working full time—for the City of Fort Myers for the mayor, and they had an office, the equivalent of Equal Opportunity Office. I was the Executive Director of the Community Relations Office, and they had a commission and what have you.

Matter of fact, the year I was hired, the man who is now our Chief Judge of the Circuit was on the commission. He was practicing law across the street in Henderson Franklin Jet Starnes. Henderson, Franklin, Starnes, Holt. His father is the Starnes—or his grandfather, one of them. At any rate, I worked there and it was about a year and then studying for the bar, moved out of that across the street cause the county was paying more money [Beep] Yep?

	I:	Oh whoops, excuse me.



	A:	Well, because the county was paying more money, I moved across the street to county government. Shortly after I moved across the street to county government, I got my license to practice law. I stayed there I think maybe three or four months after I got my license, and they weren’t too terribly happy about my moving into the county attorney office. No one made me any offers or anything like that. Even though I didn’t inquire it, I said, “No thank you. Don’t think I want to be here.” So I moved out on my own, and a guy and I practiced law together. But part of the problem with country government at that time was that I was very active with people in the community, to people like McCutcheon and Veronica and Colleen, and other folks like that.







	I:	Is that the Dunbar College?



	A:	And the Dunbar Coalition, and things we were doing with regard to housing. We put together, through the help of some of the people there [Laughter] that I know, we put together a listing of some of the absentee landlords. Slumlords, actually, is what they were. And it was rather interesting list. It was very embarrassing to some elected officials and some not elected officials and some people who were in charge of housing around this town and county. There was a plumber’s raid on my office, the list disappeared, but we had copies [Laughter]. And there were accusations thrown about, and no one’s ever proved anything, but they had no reason to keep me in there employ after that [Laughter]. So, I practice law here, plus three and a half year, four years. I had some rather interesting cases, you know, but that’s another story in and of itself.

	I:	I bet it is. Well, the Dunbar Coalition, in addition to housing concerns, were there educational concerns?

	A:	Yes, very much so.



	I:	Location of schools? That sort of thing?



	A:	Location of schools. Hiring of African Americans, Black people. The population growth. Whether or not we could have a new school or reopen the old Dunbar school, renovate it, bring it up to snuff as opposed to building a new school somewhere else. Community schools versus busing. Dealing with those problems. You know, we were all told the lie that Lee County is losing population. I said, “Somehow or another, I don’t believe that, and every time I drive down the road, you can’t cross the street because of traffic. Where in the hell are they







going? To Naples?” [Laughter] They’re leaving, going somewhere else. I mean, you know, all these people in the media are lying when they say that we’re the fastest growing county [Laughter]. But yet, these are elected officials, our elected school board officials who would look you in the face with a straightness and just tell you that. They’d expect you to believe that lie. I mean, it was amazing.

Absolutely amazing, but those were some of the things we had to deal with, we were concerned about. And we were very active politically, in terms of elections. We had local officials, county commissioners, city council men, others, legislators coming to us saying, “What can we do to help you?” Well, the question is, what can you do for us in order for us to help you is what you’re saying. Is that what you’re saying? Yeah, and we had that sort of a relationship, and it was not a relationship that was built on trust or built on somebody liking you or disliking you. It was built on just sheer, political power. If you could turn out a vote and hurt somebody, well, they respected that and nothing else. At that time, the teachers’ union was very helpful to us. They worked with us, and we helped them. Again, it was a case of quid pro quo. You help me, I’ll help you. Oh, I need you and you need me so let’s work together. And we accomplished a few things, I thought, but somehow or another, it seems we’ve fell on some oh so many times.

	I:	Well there have been a lot of very positive comments about the Dunbar Coalition when it has come up in our meetings, and I have the impression that possibly one of the things that you had tried for was if the Dunbar high school had been







up to code and renovated, but it was to have schools again in the community where children could walk and feel that sense of neighborhood.

	A:	Well, what we were saying, and what we were arguing at the time, is no different than what this school board is saying now and what’s happing in St. Louis and other cities around the country. But the problem with it is that you can’t trust the Lee County School Board. It has a history of being dishonest when it comes to dealing with African American Black people in this county, and it’s the old expression, “Don’t judge me by what I say but what I’ve done.” Well, that’s what you’ve done to us so therefore we don’t trust you.

	I:	Lots of history.



	A:	Yeah, they have a history, and therefore, it’s very difficult to believe that all of a sudden they’ve got this change of heart. And why? And they’ll never tell you the truth, or the real reason. Perhaps truth is a strong word. They’ll never tell you the real reason. And I think that the idea of a neighborhood school is idealistic, to imagine we could have such and that you would have a school where your kids could go in and be with other kids no matter who they are or what color they are, but if they just happen to live in the neighborhood and get the same education that anyone else got or better. It just something that bothers folk around here [Laughter]. I don’t know.

	I:	Well, I think it’s pretty universal. I think that this feeling permeates many, many communities, and it’s this retard—

	A:	Do you realize how important? You know, when I was talking to you about the idea of walking to school in the morning and how important it was to me to walk







with little Jay Sullivan and Willie James Jackson and Cory Robinson and Jennifer and Corlis. And you know, to be able to walk to school with those kids in the morning, we talk about all the terribly exciting things that had happened to us the night before. And in the morning, just before we got to it and all that, that was an experience. That was a learning experience in and of itself, but to not to be able to do that. Kids lose that. To have to get up at five o’clock in the morning, if not earlier, and with sleep still in your eyes, to try to coordinate yourself and get your things together. And go stand out in the rain, in the wind, in the cold, in the dark, and take a bus with a bunch of other kids who are just like you who are tired and sleepy and grouchy as Hell because they’re middle schoolers, they’re teenagers, and their body’s clock is in total opposition to everything that we want to do with them as human beings. Kids don’t sleep late because they’re lazy. They sleep late because their body tell them to sleep late. That’s why they sleep late, and to throw them in an environment and expect them to learn feeling bad, hungry, angry—it’s impossible.

	I:	And then disoriented from where they live. A:	Yes, exactly.

	I:	That tangential gesture. It’s disorienting. A:	Yeah, it just doesn’t work.

	I:	Well, and then there’s also that psychological theory that a child, any of us, walking from home to school, that becomes your universe. And your interaction with and your ability to have successes in lessons, like being late to your play rehearsal, [Laughter] is how you then approach the rest of your life. Your world







become bigger, but how you interacted in that world is the beginning of how you interact. Period. And the loss of that is a tremendous thing.

	A:	Oh, it just hurts everybody. I mean, and not just the kid who loses that but the people that he has to interact with on a daily basis or in the work room in that everyday worker day world where he goes when he starts to expand. They’ll wonder; they’ll say, “Well, why is that kid so angry? What’s he upset about? I didn’t do anything to him.” No, you didn’t. It’s something else that happened to him at an earlier time at another place. And there’s so many variables that are built in, even the kids don’t understand it.

	I:	I think I jumped the gun on a couple questions so we just— A:	Sure. We can go back.

	I:	How did you get to this bench? You were in private practice— A:	Okay, how did I. Yes, I was in private practice—

	I:	And then—



	A:	[Laughter] That’s an interesting question. I was in private practice, and I was having such a great time out there. Really enjoying myself practicing law and doing all the dumb things. Tilting at windmills, taking on the city fathers, and you know, all that sort of stuff. And some people I know, who are good friends of mine who are involved in politics. I’ll mention there’s not an upcare. Frank Mann, he’s a retired country squire, I guess you could call him. He’s not a retired squire, but he’s a retired person who does country squire, I suppose. He and Pet Garredy said—that was when they were still talking to each other. They’re still my best friends, but they don’t like each other anymore. They do talk to each







other. But we had a conversation, and they asked me, “Would you be interested?” I said, “Why?” He said, “Well, you know, the governor—that’s Governor Grant—would like to diversify the judiciary if he can, and you know what’s gonna happen if you get the appointment. You’re gonna have to stand for election, and you’re probably gonna have opposition.” Well, at that stage in my life, and even today, point me to a fight, why not? If it’s an interesting fight, I’ll take it on [Laughter] okay?” So I applied, and another person was appointed. I had it. My name went up along with two other people, and a White male was appointed. And I said to those guys, “You think you got political juice. What’s this with the White guy getting appointed ahead of me? You don’t know what you’re talking about.” Well, they said, “Well, you can’t stop applying. You got to apply again.” I applied again. Within, I guess it was four months after that, I was appointed.

	I:	To the Circuit Court?



	A:	No, the County Court. I was appointed County Court back in [19]81. Or was it [19]80? [19]80, I don’t know. Whatever, but [19]79. But any rate, I was appointed, and as sure as they predicted, the election the next year. The next general election, what was it? August plus three. Eleven months, eight months later. Nine months, ten months later, I had opposition. Lo and behold. Surprise, surprise.

Well, didn’t bother me. I enjoyed a fight. So I went out and campaigned. The election was over. I won 79.23% of the vote. No one’s come close to that since.

	I:	Marvelous.







	A:	Well, had a lot of fun times during that campaign. Now, you got to understand that I had run for the House of Representatives two years before and had gotten beaten terribly bad. You know, Mr. Democrat running against entranced Republican Hugh Paul Nuckolls, and I got thirty percent of the vote that time [Laughter], okay? So they just turned around.

	I:	Another lesson.



	A:	Yeah, another lesson. Right. And you know which windmills to tilt. At any rate, I won, and four years later, I won again without any opposition. But I had applied for a Circuit Judgeship. I withdrew my name from the consideration at that time. Marvin Davies, who was working for Governor Graham at the time—you know Marvin?

	I:	Yes.



	A:	Okay. Marvin, he said to call me, and he says, “I heard that your name was in there and that you withdrew your name. Why? That was dumb.” I said, “Well, you know Marvin, I was just elected and I’m so proud of the people here, you know? And I don’t want wrap to that to that to not lose political platitudes.” He said, “You are crazy.” And so [Laughter] he says, “You had an opportunity. You could be appointed a Circuit Judge, and you’re withdrawing your name.” Well, I said, “Well, I’m sorry, but that’s the way it is.” I knew Marvin, and I knew Marvin from high school. Marvin taught me Civics in high school, and when he was president of the local NAACP, we did a lot of things here locally in the community involvement. After having been passed over a couple times, after Governor Graham moved on and under Mr. Martinez was the governor for four years, I was







passed over by him two or three times. I says, “’Nough. The next one comes along, I’m running for it. I don’t care who gets it, whether he’s appointed or not.” Because I had made it a point. I would not run against an incumbent, all right? And that meant I was interpreting that if you were appointed ahead of me, you were an incumbent, I’m not gonna run against you. They passed over me too much so I let it be known that the next one comes down the road, I’m gonna apply for it. If I don’t get appointed, I’m gonna run for it. It’s as simple as that. So whoever gets it, prepare to run, okay? Well, I open up my campaign—this was six years ago—I open up my campaign a year before the election. I announced, and we started raising money. Then we officially had a big announcement on the courthouse steps, and God’s been good to me. The reason I say that is because on the day we were supposed to have the announcement, it was in the summer outside and it was one o’clock in the afternoon. Rarely does it rain at one o’clock in the afternoon. Always rains at two-thirty, three o’clock. Well this day, we had about sixty-five or seventy people. We want a good crowd, right? You always try to get a couple hundred people. Well we couldn’t get a couple hundred people so it started to rain. All sixty-five or seventy had to crowd into the lobby of the courthouse. [Laughter]

	I:	Photo-op!



	A:	Perfect! [Laughter] I mean, it’s just absolutely perfect. I:	God did smile on you.

	A:	You saw that thing on television, you said, “God, look at them!” I:	Crammed together.







	A:	Yes! “Look at the support this guy has!” I:	Stand in your limelight.

	A:	Exactly. Lo and behold, come filing time, qualifying time, or the deadline for filing, no one filed. There was one guy from Naples who had said, “Judge, I wanted to tell ya. I’m thinking about running for that slot.” I says, “Well, fine. That’s nice. I know you’ve been here about six years, and I’m glad you’re here. But I don’t know who you’ve been talking to, but maybe you’re not aware of the fact that the last time I ran, I got almost eighty percent of the vote, okay? I’m not bragging; I’m just telling you the facts. I don’t take prisoners when I run for office. I just destroy my opponent.” And he said, “Yeah, right.” And, well, he did a little checking around, and on the day for qualifying, he hadn’t said anything. He called me about eleven o’clock in the morning here at this desk, and he says, “Judge, I’ve done some checking around, and you’re right. Congratulations, I’m not gonna run against you.” I said, “Well, thank you, Frank. I appreciate that.” He’s a judge now so you know. In this last August, I was up for, again, reelection. I had no opposition so that’s the way it’s been.

	I:	That’s marvelous.



	A:	Well—



	I:	Do you enjoy the bench?



	A:	I enjoy it sometimes. I enjoy it most of the time. Sometimes I get very angry at myself. I get very uncomfortable because I feel like I haven’t done enough, and that’s not good. Well, I guess it is good in the sense that it keeps you on your toes.







	I:	It’s not the perennial attitude of the overachiever? A:	Is that what it is?

	I:	Yes.



	A:	Oh, well I’m sorry. [Laughter]



	I:	Are you still working on something? A:	Yeah. [Laughter]

	I:	Well, I’m probably about to wear out your patience here and— A:	No, you’re not. I can talk all day about me.

	I:	Well [Laughter], what are you assigned to right now?



	A:	What am I assigned? I’m on the criminal bench, and I get all the great cases. [Soft Laughter] She’s chuckling in the background over there because she knows some of the cases I’ve been assigned to. For example—you probably read something about this—the quote, “Lords’ of Chaos.” Yes, I got those.

	I:	Ah, are they in court already?



	A:	Yeah, they’re in court, but it hasn’t gone to trial yet. That’s one that’s been assigned. And if you watch America’s Most Wanted, you’ve probably read about the guy who killed his wife in northwest Fort Myers and stuffed her in a septic tank.

	I:	Oh, yes.



	A:	And we just did that one last week. So those are the kinds of cases that I’m assigned to, and you know, always something exciting.

	I:	You had some really big cases done. A:	Yeah, yeah.







	I:	Great criminal.



	A:	If that’s what you like. [Laughter]



	I:	That invade the national news for days at a time. A:	I know, I know.

	I:	In the course of our work with other people, we’ve had a number of legal issues come up, and I would just like to ask you about a couple of them in order.

	A:	If I can answer them, I will.



	I:	And some of them may not even be legal issues. A:	I’ll address them if I can.

	I:	Okay. First of all, and this one came up, we had Plessy v. Ferguson. As we researched the Lee County education of Black students, always in a segregated manner from the first moment we ever saw it. Even the first mention, 1860, but Plessy v. Ferguson seems to put the cap on that, and even in Fort Myers and Lee County, we see the wall grow and grow and grow. Do you have any comments to make on that from your vantage point of an officer of the law and—

	A:	Well, it depends. I don’t understand.



	I:	A law student. I mean, we just see over and over again in Fort Myers the segregation law gets thicker and thicker and thicker.

	A:	Yeah, I give an example. I agree with you. It does exist, and I think it’s more pervasive than people are willing to admit. I’d like to point out the attitude that exists in the county, and it’s the best example. Walk over across the street, walk into that county commission room, and look at who sits above them in all his Confederate regalia. Robert E. Lee. If that isn’t the biggest dam insult to







humanity there is. Since when did the losers stand in victory? Those boys lost the war! Did they realize that?

	I:	Well, I wrote that in this report.



	A:	[Laughter] It is absolutely incredible. It blows my mind.\



	I:	Well, at the end of the Civil War and James Evans acquires that tract of land that became the heart of the City of Fort Myers, he was recorded here in the 1860 census owning twelve slaves. Then he comes and acquires that land—by whatever means, I’m not sure—but in all the platted are an anchor for Confederate heroes.

	A:	And Lee Street [Laughter].



	I:	It does have Lee and Jackson and everything. And here we have to presume that somewhere in that 1870 population we have at least a few people who are citizens who fought in the U.S. Colored Troops division that was stationed here. It’s only a logical thing.

	A:	Of course.



	I:	We don’t have a documented one yet, but they have to been. A:	Of course, there’s got to be.

	I:	But here you have this sign by sign that they weren’t.



	A:	Where is the record? I mean, there’s got to be a record of those troops by name in the archives, either the military or—

	I:	A military historian at the Florida State Archives tells me that’s another research project. That that is—

	A:	Oh just finding their names?







	I:	The muster rolls are not available on microfilm so it’s an individual trip to the National Archives, to those individual records, to find out who they were. And it would just be a fascinating thing to see who is here?

	A:	It would, it really would be. Yeah because you will know. There’s an interesting book—oh, well it’s another different story. I’m sorry.

	I:	No, what is it? I love history.



	A:	You need to read it. It has nothing to do with what we’re talking about, but I’m think of other things that are flashing through my mind, and it is called, The Sweeter the Juice. Just look it up and read it, okay? And you will appreciate what I am saying without my having to explain anything else from this point on.

	I:	Well also—



	A:	It’s a recent book.



	I:	One of my first experiences in researching Fort Myer’s history was the archeological excavation that was done at Fowler and Second, and it was very clear from the records that there had to have been—no, it wasn’t clear from the records, but it was a presumption having researched the records—that there had to have been unmarked graves for Black military and Black civilian workers over those decades of time. It would’ve had to have been. And there were also Indians there whose graves were not marked. And the few gravestones we did find were the soft limestone material and the letters were obliterated. It was the only Captain Fowler had a readable, a legible, tombstone.

	A:	And he was?







	I:	He was a White officer in the—oh, I don’t know what period of time that was, the [19]50s?—1850s. Interestingly, that’s another topic for research. He was in the military prison just before he died.

	A:	Wonder why.



	I:	Don’t know. [Laughter] Bet that would be another interesting research project.



	A:	Yeah, but as far as Plessy v. Ferguson and the segregated facilities and services are concerned, you know, I was saying about Robert E. Lee being there in all of his military regalia and splendor. Even today—I’ve looked in the last year too, but at least two years ago—right on the first floor in the county office building, the blue and white building across the street, if you walk in from the second street side, and you walk to your left, and you go down that first hallway and turn right, just before you get to that first hallway, on that wall. It’s a brick wall and if you notice when that brick wall just about the level of a water fountain, there are holes in the walls where they bored in there and hit little signs. And those signs said—

	I:	Colored and White.



	A:	“Colored and White.” You got it. Right there. That building. That building has been here since they removed those signs. That’s why that building to me represents so much that is so awful when it comes to the relationship of Black and White people in this community. And the people who go through there and they do it with such ease. It’s as if, “Oh, well, isn’t this where it’s supposed to be?” Or to go out to the airport and to have an injured shoulder. In June 1996, I’m going to my son’s graduation at Princeton. I can’t carry a bag. My wife is







struggling. I pull up, and I park the car. The red caps nearly knocked her down going to a car behind where some White people are to get their bags. And you know, I said to them [Laughter]. My wife said, “Come on.” But you know what? That is no longer a problem. But you know, that sort of stuff happens right here in 1996. It’s not right.

	I:	No, it is not.



	A:	And it burns you to your gut, but—



	I:	But the great hope is that somebody like you, and lots of people like you, see this and can deal with it on—

	A:	Sure. You can deal with it on a less than an emotional level, and well— I:	Well, probably not.

	A:	Well, you can. You can. And I’ve taken care of that problem, but at the time, I was very angry and I took care of it.

	I:	But isn’t it wonderful it happened to you? A:	[Laughter] Yes.

	I:	Someone who can take care of himself. A:	Yes, yes. Yeah.

	I:	It is wonderful.



	A:	And, you know it’s really embarrassing. I think what is happening with the Plessy decision. Mr. Bush, when he recommended Clarence Thomas, I was disappointed. I thought that Clarence Thomas was really a much stronger person than he has let on. Maybe I don’t understand it. He professes to have been raised in southern Georgia and at a time—he’s younger than I am, probably







about four years, which makes him about forty-six, all right? Maybe he’s forty- eight. Two years younger than I am, and if he’s forty-eight and was raised in southern Georgia at the time I was coming up as a kid, he should know what it is to be Black and be in America. But for him to draw opinions and talk about a colorblind society, I don’t understand how he can say that when in reality we are not a colorblind society. We are a society of colors, and that is the reality of it all. To me, it is the weakest example. Really it’s a cope out. It’s a way with not dealing with a very serious problem that we have in our country. It’s to say that it doesn’t exist. And because the Founding Fathers. Well, you know who the Founding Fathers were; they were a bunch of White guys. All right?

	I:	Who owned slaves.



	A:	Yes! Who owned slaves, and I wasn’t even considered a whole human being. So their point of view is definitely different from mine, and if you accept their understanding of their interpretations of things then I will certainly [Break in recording]. We should all be back enslaved or we should be considered to be less than a human being. But yes, Plessy. It’s amazing, isn’t it? That almost a hundred years, to the day?

	I:	Exactly a hundred years. [inaudible 1:09:17] A:	And here, we’re still dealing with that.

	I:	Still dealing with traditions that were set and the blindnesses [1:09:24] A:	Yes.

	I:	Mr. Johnson, Jacob Johnson’s dad, was a farmer on Sanibel in the 1920s. Did you know that? Do you have a tissue?







	A:	Yes, I’m sorry.



	I:	I’m sorry.



	A:	Excuse me.



	I:	I think I’m allergic to tape recorders. A:	Oh, probably.

	I:	Especially if I’m in charge of them [Laughter]. Mr. Johnson’s dad was a farmer on Sanibel from twenty-three until his death in twenty-nine. He was a very independent farmer. He was farming—

	A:	Is this Jacob Johnson? I:	Yes.

	A:	Is this where he gets his independence from? I:	Yes, it is.

	A:	It shows. [Laughter]



	I:	And he was also incidentally the quarterback of that first football team. His father was precluded from buying land out there, and Mr. Johnson’s uncle Harry Walker, after him, who lived out there until the [19]70s. And Mr. Johnson’s cousin, I believe it was, thinks she say in black and white a legal proscription against Blacks owning land on Sanibel Island.

	A:	That would not surprise me.



	I:	Have you ever come across interesting [Beep] would you? I guess we flip it, huh? I2:	Um-hm.

	A:	How do you hit? You wreck this?







	I2:	Yeah. Um-hm. [Rattling noises]. I know what’s happening to it. [Rattling] Yeah let [Break in recording].

	I:	Question was, would you presume this was a deed restriction or an actual statute or what would you guess it?

	A:	I would assume that it would probably been a deed restriction. But why would it have been necessary for them to pass a statute unless somebody at some point or another challenged it or caused a rancor or uproar or something about it. So they would pass an ordinance or statute dealing with it. Consequently, it would lead me to believe that people could do whatever it was they chose to do in their deed conveyances of property and nobody would challenge it. So it probably sled in a deed.

	I:	Probably it did. So you wouldn’t research it through the ordinances statutes, you’d research it through—

	A:	No, yeah. Even if you



	I:	Seeing the title, abstract—



	A:	Yeah, even if you saw it in a statute somewhere, there’s a reason for the need of. Restrictions were probably so strong or prevalent at that the time that somebody somewhere got upset.

	I:	I don’t know if you’re familiar with this, and I’m just asking for some direction on research and this, but when Mr. Johnson finished his first year of school at Williams—and his family actually came here because of the Williams Academy— two school boys, and they were enrolled at Williams that year, were murdered by a mob. Have you ever heard about the Milton Wilson—







	A:	I’ve heard about it. I:	And R.J. Johnson?

	A:	I don’t remember the name, but I heard about it. I heard it from talking to Pat McCutcheon on McDonald Dixon. You know, people like that. Either they knew of it or they had heard, you know.

	I:	Well, Mrs. Rogers first brought it to my attention, and in the course of our work so far to date, we do have their names. We do know the dates. And Mrs. Rogers has a nine-paragraph article that was in the paper. Immediately, almost within twenty-four hours, thanking the sheriff and their crew, commending them for their earnest efforts to—

	A:	I don’t think it was there. Did you get a copy of the police report? Or the sheriff’s investigation?

	I:	Would there have been one? A:	It should’ve slumped—

	I:	And would it exist if it’s 1924—



	A:	And I’ll bet you it exists. There would’ve been a report or something. The question is does it exist? I don’t know.

	I:	If you were unadjudicated, and there must have been some cursory—



	A:	Medical exam, his record. What about the medical exam in his record, you know?



	I:	Do we know where they’re buried? Ever come across anything like that? We have dates, okay.

	A:	I would imagine the medical examiner. If you have dates, they should be some— I:	We have dates.







	A:	Any records, somewhere.



	I:	These were school boys. Mr. Johnson thinks, you know, possibly fourteen years old. At that point, Williams Academy only went through sixth or eighth grade—I don’t recall which—and a lot of times, especially males, were older because they were needed to work and be employed so they’d go back to school or only get in half a term so they’d be older than they would normally have been if they were just had the luxury of going straight through school. But even with that, they probably couldn’t have been more than sixteen. And one of them he knew pretty well, use to ride him home from time to time at lunch, and he looked at him as a contemporary and not an older person. These were very young people.

	A:	But I would imagine there would be an MEU record. A medical examiner’s record somewhere.

I:   I think you might be interested in this. About the year you were born, there was a club Forum called a sportsmen club, and Mr. Johnson has told us about with Bill Sears, is that his name?

	A:	Um-hm. Sears.



	I:	And it was that group that decided to name the community Dunbar because they didn’t like all the other names that were being applied. And he thinks Mr. Sears actually call the Fort Myers News-Press and said, “We’d like to be known in the future as the—

	A:	As Dunbar.



	I:	Dunbar community.” So for our— A:	Hm. That’s interesting.







	I:	Isn’t that interesting? So I thought— A:	The power of one person.

	I:	The power of one person. They didn’t like all the other terms so I would like to close this initial interview—and thank you for your patience—ask you what were your perceptions of your relationship with the community of Dunbar as you grew up?

	A:	Well—



	I:	Because you described your neighborhood. Did you think of it as Dunbar? I’m trying to see how that terminology got set.

	A:	You know, as a kid coming up, I didn’t. Dunbar didn’t mean Dunbar. To me it didn’t mean a thing. What it meant to me, Johnson Quarters. The Bottoms. Blake’s Alley. Duke’s Alley. Those are areas within our neighborhoods.

	I:	Places.



	A:	Yes. Those were areas or neighborhoods within, quote, “Dunbar.” Dr. Johnson Quarters. You know, stuff like that [Laughter]. I remember those places just as like the palm of my hand. I mean, it was just as clear as we see during tarp. But I didn’t perceive Dunbar as an area. I saw Dunbar Elementary School, Franklin Parks School, Dunbar High School. No, I just didn’t associate that with being the area or the community I lived in. It was just a name of places.

	I:	So that came later, apparently. A:	Yeah.

	I:	As a sense of place.







	A:	Yeah as a sense of place, but as a youngster, a real young kid, no. No, it didn’t mean that much. I imagine probably if in fact it did when it did, it was probably when I was in high school because oh yeah. I do remember in [19]63 when all the debate was going on about the [19]64 Civil Rights Act in Congress. And we were getting ready for graduation as juniors. We got a letter from I think it was Congressman Spessard Holland. He sent us a letter and included in that letter was the American Creed. And I knew at that time, that was a bunch of baloney cause he was up there fighting tooth and nail to stop the 1964 Civil Rights Act. And I wrote him a letter, telling that he should keep it and maybe he should try to abide by what he says that he believes in. Because he obviously didn’t believe it because of his stance he had taken and etcetera, etcetera. Gosh, it’s amazing. [Laughter]

	I:	How were you so well informed on Spessard Holland’s voting record in [19]64? A:	The media. Our teachers. We had—

	I:	Are you reading a lot? [Inaudible 1:18:24]—



	A:	I shouldn’t say media. Well, yeah. I read a lot. We talked a lot. I don’t know if you remember Rueben Robinson?

	I:	Uh-hm.



	A:	He use to teach Civics and stuff like that. Oh, what was the man’s name? He taught us—I don’t know—something. It was an English teacher, and I can’t think of his name, but I see his face. But one of the things that was so important was just reading. And you read and you talked about things. And of course there was Marvin Davies. Marvin didn’t let much get by. It was just something that you felt







like you had to do, and you did it, and well, you lived with it. If something good happens, something good happens. If it didn’t, well, you tried again.

	I:	Sounds like a really well-informed student population.



	A:	Well, I don’t know. Maybe we had some very active people and some very smart people, gosh darn. A lot smarter than I was, and I was just in awe. Jeremiah Primus, he’s a principal down in Collier County. And Walter Wiley. He was from [inaudible 1:19:48], but he was real smart guy, you know? But those are the people you remember.

	I:	When you look back on your education in those schools, you’ve mentioned Mrs.



	Thurman and Mrs. Jones. Are there any other standouts— A:	Oh yeah.

	I:	Any people who were terrific or influences—



	A:	Yeah, yeah. There was Coach Jim Stevens. There was Ms. Idella Moss. She taught us math. There was—oh what’s his name? Mr. Poet, he was one of our football coaches. There was Mr. Jackson. Nathaniel P. Jackson. We use to call him Nappy Pappy.

	I:	He was the half-brother of one of the mob [inaudible 1:20:41] victims. A:	Really?

	I:	Was he?



	I2:	[inaudible 1:20:47] somebody’s back. Uh-hm.



	A:	There was Martha Weebs. She taught us math. Obviously Ms. Jones and people like that. Those are the ones that standout, you know?

	I:	Anybody ever look you in the face and say, “You ought to be a lawyer?”







	A:	I had several of them look me in the face and say, “You oughta be a preacher, boy.” [Laughter] That was a compliment, believe me. That was a compliment. [Laughter] They didn’t.

	I:	Anybody ever look you in the face and say, “You’re not gonna amount to anything?”

	A:	Yes, quite a few [Laughter]. Quite a few as a matter of fact. I:	I only written that up in jest?

	A:	No—



	I:	And I do know some people that become— A:	Oh, well, yes.

	I:	Dynamite lawyers and they always mention it was a great problem.



	A:	Listen, it was Ms. Jones. Ms. Jones. She threw me out of the practice. I even tell you the whole truth: she threw me out of the play because I was late. “You’re never gonna be. Get out of here! And don’t come back.” “But Ms. J—“ “Get out!” [Laughter] I love that old lady. God, she was tough. [Laughter] She took no prisoners.

	I:	Sorry about all this. A:	[Laughter] Yeah.

	I:	Is there anything else we should cover in this initial interview?



	I2:	His sons. We didn’t mention them by the son. He mentioned one of them. I:	And mention your wife by her first name, but we didn’t—

	A:	Okay.



	I:	What is her entire name?







	A:	My wife’s name is Audrea Isaac Anderson. She’s from Bishopville, South Carolina, which is located in Lee County, South Carolina. She has a brother named Anderson Isaac, and yes, and it goes on. We have two sons. Isaac Christopher, he’s the oldest. He’s a graduate student in Finance at Syracuse. He just finished Princeton. And his brother Justin Curtis is a freshman at Princeton. So my wife has a Master’s in English. She’s on the State Board of Regents.

	I:	Currently?



	A:	Yes.



	I:	Oh, okay. Appointed by?



	A:	Governor Charles. She’s been on there three years. I2:	That’s the woman you need to talk to.

	A:	Okay. And what else do you want to know? I:	Uh, those are all the names you wanted?

	I2:	And just to note, what did you say about Justin? I didn’t hear it. A:	He’s a freshman at Princeton, yeah.

	I:	And you are a poor man after all of this tuition payments.



	A:	I am not poor. I just don’t have any money. [Laughter] I am broke.



	I:	And that’s very list. That and tuition payments as far as academic achievements—

	A:	It’s really sad. You know, there’s this guy up in Princeton. His name is Bonzer.



He’s in charge of financial—he’s likely the bursar. When I was coming along, that’s what they call him. But he handles this thing they call Princeton Parent Loan Fund. That’s one of his function, and then financial aid and whatever else.







All that falls under him. Well, he and I got into a nasty argument—not really nasty but a rather very strong argument—about funding. Out of frustration, I says, “Mr. Bonds, you gotta understand I’m Black, and I deserve a contribution paid toward my kid’s education.” He said, “Black?” [Laughter] Well his point was, “Man, I don’t care who you are—

	I:	You don’t qualify.



	A:	Or what you are. You gonna pay it or your boy ain’t coming here because we’re not gonna pay it.” In other words, yeah right. You don’t qualify. And you know, I say that in jest, but it’s something that we all wish that we were in that position. To be in a position where we can say, “God, I don’t qualify.” [Laughter] Yeah, right. If only they’d reduce their tuition [Laughter].

	I:	So I think we’ve tagged a lot of important information and covered a lot of important information, and you will be supplied a transcript that you can add anything to, subtract anything from, and then perhaps, if you don’t mind, we’ll do a follow up interview after that and cover anything else we might wish we had covered—

	A:	Okay.



	I:	But I can’t thank you— [End of Interview]





Transcribed by: Meg Cannan



Audit-edited by: Sandra Romero, November 3, 2020 Final edit by: Sandra Romero, April 20, 2021