AAHP 791; Lewis; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 791 Joseph Lewis 2-28-2020

Interviewed by Sebastiano Cocco, Alana Gomez, and Teniadé Broughton on February 28, 2020

65 minutes | 18 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Escambia County elder Joseph Lewis recalls his childhood in the rural town of Barth, Florida, where he attended school at nearby a nearby Baptist church because the local school only accepted White students. Barth, who was born in 1923, remembers that for high school he and other Black residents of Barth were bussed twenty miles away to Century, Florida, which housed the closest school accepting Black students, Century High School. Lewis recalls playing basketball because it was the only sport his school had the funding to support. He recalls learning English from Lily James, sister of the famed General Chappie James. Lewis attended college at Florida A&M University for just a semester before he was drafted into the United States Navy during World War II. Lewis explains that he was among the first cohort of Black Navy servicemen, as Black Navy members prior to his service were admitted only as cooks or janitorial staff. Lewis attended basic training in Chicago, Illinois, before his deployment on the all-Black crew of the USS SC330. He recalls that the ship was a re-commissioned vessel used during the First World War, and that although the ship was dilapidated, he and his fellow crew members grew fond of it.

However, Lewis admits that he believes the all-Black crew was assigned to the vessel due to discriminatory practices. He even suspects that the ship and its crew served as a sort of experiment to determine if Black servicemen could effectively operate a Navy vessel. After his discharge from the Navy at the end of the war, Lewis worked as the first African American manager of plant equipment and engineering for the United States Postal Service until his retirement from the position. As the interview concludes, Lewis recalls the barriers he faced when attempting to vote or use public facilities under Jim Crow in Escambia County.





Keywords: [Pensacola, Florida, Black veterans, veteran history, World War II, WWII, Navy, military, segregation, African American history, voter suppression, Jim Crow]



AAHP 791

Interviewee: Joseph Lewis

Interviewer: Sebastiano Coco, Alana Gomez, Teniadé Broughton Date: February 28, 2020



	C:	So, this is Sebastiano Coco with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. I’m here with—can you introduce yourselves?

	G:	Alana Gomez.



	B:	Teniadé Broughton.



	C:	Okay and today is February 28th, 2020 and we are here with—What’s your name, sir?

	L:	Joseph Lewis.



	C:	Nice to meet you, Mr. Lewis. And we’re in your home and we’re just gonna start with some general questions about your life. When and where were you born?

	L:	I was born in Barth, Florida.



	C:	Okay, and that’s in Escambia County? L:	Escambia County.

	C:	Okay. And is there a specific neighborhood in which you grew up in? L:	No, just a little old country place.

	C:	Small town?



	L:	Farming.



	C:	Farming? Okay. Was your family involved in that in any way?



	L:	My granddaddy was a farmer. But I got away from that as soon as I could. [Laughter]

	C:	What crops did they farm out there? L:	Mostly corn, watermelons.

	C:	That’s interesting.





	G:	What was it like growing up there?



	L:	Growing up there? It was wild, believe me. Lord! You had to walk to school, we had to walk about three miles to school one way. And all kinds of weather, it was rough, believe me.

	G:	And you said the school was three miles away? L:	Mmhm.

	G:	Wow.



	C:	That was there—to get to the school was three miles? And you got three miles back afterwards.

	L:	Yeah and the school was in the church. We didn’t have a school building; it was in a church. And at that time, the bathrooms were back up on a hill behind the church and the pump where you get the water from was down the hill, up from the toilet.

	G:	And did you attend that same school and the church? L:	Well yeah.

	G:	For all of school? L:	What?

	G:	Did you attend that same school for all of your schooling years? L:	No. That was just primary stuff.

	C:	What church was that? What denomination?



	L:	That was the White Lily Baptist Church. They had a school board years after our schooling. Although the Whites have a nice beautiful building down there, you know, books, school buses and so on. But we had to go to school in the church.





And they didn’t have any bathrooms. Like I said, the bathroom, the toilet, was up on the hill and it had the well where you get the water from down under that, so you know what we were drinking. But we made it.

	C:	So you said that was primary school that was at the church. What followed after primary school?

	L:	Well, after we finished that then they bussed us up to high school in Century, which was about twenty miles away.

	C:	Twenty miles away. And this is the 1930s or earlier? L:	Well, I was born in 1923—

	C:	Sorry. [19]23, okay.



	L:	So, I was about fifteen, something like that when they took us up to high school.



But we couldn’t understand, I mean, we were kids, you know? We couldn’t understand. Why would they bus us twenty miles when there was a school— which was Tate High School—only about five miles from us? But they bussed us twenty miles up there.

	G:	And that was Tate High School?



	L:	Tate High School, that’s the same Tate that’s out there now. G:	Was it an all-White school then?

	L:	Oh yes, mmhm.



	B:	So, you were at Carver? What high school— L:	Yeah, Carver.

	C:	And that’s in—



	L:	At that time, it wasn’t Carver, it was Century. Century High Number 110.





	C:	And so, it was twenty miles away from the small town—? L:	Where we lived.

	C:	Where you lived.



	L:	Up to Century where the school was.



	C:	Okay and what was the environment like there? Was it different? L:	At the school?

	C:	Yes, at the high school.



	L:	The only difference was there were more students. But everything else was about the same.

	C:	Town was like a similar—?



	L:	The town was a logging town, they had lumber mill up there, the Alger Sullivan



Lumber Company. That was the primary employer at that time.



	B:	Did most of the people in your neighborhood work down there at Sullivan?



	L:	No. Where we lived, they made bricks. It was a brickyard there. You probably see downtown, I think they have a picture there with the crew where they made these bricks, you know?

	B:	It’s a kiln and half of it is Black folks and half is White? L:	Yep. That’s it. You saw that?

	B:	Yes sir.



	L:	My folks are on that, my relatives.



	B:	Wow, I want to bring the picture to you.



	L:	There’s about three of ‘em on there, my uncle, stepdad, two uncles, some cousins.





	B:	Can I bring the picture to you and you can point them out? L:	Sure.

B:   Okay, I’ll get it to you. Thank you.



C:  And so, you know, you go to high school, that’s four years, right? L:  Mmhm.

C:  Was there like a junior high school and senior high school or how was it set up? Because I was talking to someone earlier and they said that the breakdown was eighth, ninth, tenth grade and then you’ve got eleventh and twelfth in a different location.

L:   Not with us.



C:   Not with you?



	L:	Everything was there in the same building. Matter of fact, the original school we had burned and then they let us go in the church until they could get some more facilities for us. And the new facility really wasn’t large enough for the students that we had so many of the rooms—the larger rooms—had two classes. One class over here, one class over there. And you can imagine how conducive that was for learning. This teacher over here talking to their kids loud, the other doing the same thing. What could they do? They’re not supposed to—We had a good basketball team though; I can tell you that.

	G:	Did you play at all? L:	Yeah, mmhm.

	G:	Is basketball the only sport you played in high school?





L:  Yeah, that’s the only sport we could afford. We couldn’t afford football because we didn’t have the money to buy the gear. And because, you know, the county wouldn’t give any support to that. So, basketball was our thing.

	B:	What was the mascot for the school? Do you remember? L:	I don’t remember, I really don’t.

	B:	Okay. Do you remember the school colors? L:	No, I don’t remember that either.

	B:	Okay.



	L:	Let’s see, what was it… I don’t remember. B:	Do you remember any of your teachers? L:	I remember a few of ‘em, mmhm.

	B:	Can you share their names?



	L:	Chappie James’ sister was one teacher up there. Lily James. B:	I remember her very well. Lily James Frazier?

	L:	She taught me English.



	B:	Okay. Do you remember any of your other teachers?



	L:	Oh yes. Laurie McQueen, Alvin Macmillan was the principal and who else?



Gladys was one of the teachers, I remember quite a few.



	B:	And this was at Carver? L:	Yes.

	G:	What was your favorite class in high school?



	L:	My favorite class? Oh well, I did love math, but I couldn’t master it. But I liked poetry too. English literature was really one of my favorites.





	G:	Did you write poetry?



	L:	No. I tried to, but I couldn’t get the swing of it. But I love to read it, even now I do. I have a favorite for my wife that I used to—after I was working, I traveled a lot. I had a favorite I’d always write her at the end of my letters: “How do I love thee,” Elizabeth Barrett Browning, you ever read it?

	G:	I think I have in high school.



	L:	Mmhm. Yeah. It’s very—it always inspired me to rush and get back to it. G:	So then after high school is that where you went to—?

	L:	After high school I went to FAMU and Tennessee.



	B:	In high school, besides the poem you just mentioned, what were some of the other topics or poems you all talked about? Did you learn Black history then? Did you learn about Du Bois?

	L:		Very, very little. We didn’t have much. I used to like to read Frederick Douglass, read about his life. That was my favorite.

	B:	What part do you remember standing out? And you liked what else?



	L:	Invictus. That gave me strength because when things were really rough, you know, as you probably don’t know anything about, some of the things we experienced, Invictus is what they taught us.

	B:	Oh, so you learned Invictus in school? L:	Mmhm.

	B:	Out of the [inaudible].



	L:	After I left that was my guiding light. Every time I’d run into a problem or something you know—I wasn’t the only one, there was a couple guys, Jacob





East and some of the other guys, we worked together, we sat around and talked and all, we refer to Invictus and that made us get up and wanna get back at it.

	B:	So who taught you Invictus? The teachers?



	L:	Mrs. James, Mrs. Lily James was one! You better learn, I know that. C:	So, you said that it was Chappie James’ wife—sister?

	L:	I think that’s his sister.



	B:	Yes it was. Lily James Frazier, she taught at PJC. She was over the women’s clubs.

	L:	You know and she hadn’t been teaching too long when she was teaching up in Century. Did you now they used to drive up there every day? It was a group of teachers, you know, they had a car, but they’d drive in the morning—this is Century! Do you know where Century is? It’s forty or fifty miles from here. They’d drive up there, drive back in the afternoon. Daily.

	B:	So they were basically what we would call now “carpooling.” L:	Yeah, yeah.

	C:	And would you say, you know, you mentioned her and even other teachers or perhaps even mentors, did they inspire you to go to then FAMU [12:18]?

	L:	Yes. Mrs. Alice McCray who was my elementary teacher, she inspired me to do a lot of things that I did. She just would always—because I came from very, very meager means. You know, we didn’t have anything. And she always inspired me that yes, you can. You can do it. And I would get a little disgusted sometimes because I didn’t have things that the other kids had and she’d always say, “Yes





you can, yes you can. You can do it; you can do it.” And it kind of kept me inspired and so that’s why I’d say that I accomplished—I give her credit for it.

	C:	Mmhm. So, what was the process like as far as getting to then FAMC[13:10]?



Was there like an application process, an essay?



	L:	Yeah, yeah but you had to have some money. And I didn’t have any money. I went there and I started, and it went along pretty good and the war came along and they drafted me and then I went to the war and I came back and then my dad was sick, my stepdad that had cancer. Pancreatic cancer. And mother was there by herself so I’ll just forego it and stayed here to take care of them.

	B:	So when you were at FAMC do you remember who any of your teachers were there?

	L:	I gotta tell you about one—Mrs. Johnson. She was our English teacher—English literature. Did you ever know Robert Morgan who was at the radio station—Kook [14:03] Morgan? Well he and I were in a class together, quite a few of us, and she gave us a little exam one day, one Friday. We took the exam and well, we knew we studied hard for that exam so she gave us a C. So I looked at Kook and I said, “I know I made a better grade than that.” He said, “I did too! We gon’ talk to Mrs. Johnson after this class is over.” When the class was over we went in the office, she said, “Come in young men, what can I do for you?” “Mrs.

Johnson,” you know, “I know we studied hard, we just felt like we should’ve got a better grade than that.” She said, “Well let me tell you something. The author gets an A for writing it, and I get a B for teaching, so there’s nothing left for you but a C.”





	B:	Okay! [Laughter] L:	So that ended that.

	B:	Did you stay in Simpson, or Gibbs or—?



	L:	I stayed at Simpson. Simpson Hall for me. My wife stayed in—what was it— Samson Hall for women?

	B:	I was in Crawford.



	L:	You were? She was in—I think she was in—I’m trying to think. Well there wasn’t but one, two, three buildings on campus at that time so I don’t see why I shouldn’t—

	B:	Everyone was there. So you met your wife there?



	L:	Yes. I had been corresponding—well I met her through one of my high school classmates. While I was still in the Navy we were corresponding and we sent each other pictures and so on. And when the war was over, you know where I went to go. Yeah, I remember our commanding officer tried to talk us into staying in the Navy, you know? All the opportunities we could get and all that stuff. I said, “Man, I’m going to Tallahassee.” And that’s how that ended.

	C:	And so how long were you at FAMU before you were drafted? Do you remember how many semesters in you were?

	L:	It wasn’t a full semester, no.



	C:	Oh wow. So not even the first semester and you were already getting drafted?



	L:	No I didn’t even finish the first semester. They were out to get us, I guess. I guess the war was getting pretty rough, they don’t need a young guy here, put him out there, let him help to save his country.





	G:	What was it like when you got drafted? How did you feel?



	L:	It was very shocking. I had never been north before in my life, and this was in February. I went to Chicago and there’s ice and snow everywhere. And you can imagine what happened to me. If you don’t know how to walk on it and you slide and then down you go. Very, very exciting to go to Chicago in the wintertime.

	C:	Was that the first place where they sent you over or was that basic training?



	L:	That was the first place. That was basic training. Robert Smalls, they had us— well, you gotta know at that time, there weren’t too many African Americans in the Navy other than just cooks and bakers and valets. But when the war came along, I guess they said, “We got to get some more young guys and put them on line.” You know. So they opened up a new camp at Great Lakes, they called it— What’d they call it? —Robert Smalls. Do you remember who Robert Smalls was? Anyway, I can tell you about it later. But they named it Robert Smalls and that was for all African Americans to do their basic training there. And this was at the Great Lakes, and that’s where I got my basic training at.

B:  And they named it Robert Smalls? L:   We were one of the first groups— B:  Robert Smalls, you said?

	L:	Yeah Robert Smalls. We were one of the first groups of African Americans to train at Great Lakes. Because they didn’t send us there, they sent us to Bethesda, Maryland, to train us as cooks and bakers. But when you went to Great Lakes, you trained to be a real sailor. How to operate and maintain the ships. So that’s what we did.





C:  How did you get to—you know this is Illinois you said? So you got drafted, you were at FAM, and so what was the process like of getting up there to northern Illinois?

	L:	Well the Navy didn’t have any other basic training except the one in Great Lakes for us—I mean, for everybody, you know—they had the place in Bethesda but Great Lakes was the major basic training station for Navy personnel. But I was drafted in Jacksonville though. And then they sent us to Great Lakes for the basic training.

	C:	But I mean what was the means like of getting there because it’s kind of a—? L:	Well, let me tell you what happened. When I went through the line at Camp

Blanding, while they’re drafting, they had three guys sitting up the hill: Army, Navy, Marines. I didn’t know anything about the Navy, only thing I saw was these guys cook and I sure didn’t want to be a cook. So when I got in the line the guy said, “Okay, what branch you wanna go in?” I said, “Army.” He said, “Bam!

You’re in the Navy now.” [Laughter] That’s how it happened. I knew about the Army because I had some relatives in the Army but he said, “You’re in the Navy now.” And that’s how it came about.

	C:	So they didn’t— because I was speaking to someone earlier who was drafted but they were drafted at a later time and they had no say, they just sent them directly to a unit. So you’re saying they had you choose quote-unquote—you could express a choice—?

	L:	We had no choice.



	C:	No choice. So it was just like mind games?





	L:	They had a little tab, I think they were trying to keep it equal as much as possible. They look on that, see, “Oh you got ten, I got four. Okay, this one’s mine.” That’s all it was. It meant nothing else. Later they gave us an aptitude test and things like that to try and categorize us, you know, after that the only thing they wanted was to get you in a branch of service whether it’s Army, Navy, or Marines.

Whichever.



	C:	And so Camp Blanding, that’s when the selection happened? L:	Mmhm.

	C:	Was it a bus ride up to Illinois or plane ride? L:	No, it was a train.

	C:	Train?



	L:	Train, yeah. Yeah we had a sleeper car man. We slept good. Everything was fine until we got there, and then that’s where it all happened.

	C:	The cold.



	L:	Cold, you bet!



	G:	What else? What was Chicago and basic training like?



	L:	We didn’t go out that much because I was underage and I couldn’t go to any of the clubs or anything there so there wasn’t anything for me to do but go stand on the street corners and I didn’t do that. We just mostly went to movies, stayed on base, something like that during my basic training because I couldn’t go anywhere else. And after that, they sent us over to Hampton Institute. They had a school over there. They sent us over there for some specialized training in internal combustion engines and for that they sent us over to another amphibious





base for sea duty training. And from that they put us on a ship and that’s where I stayed.

	G:	For how long?



	L:	Until the war was over in [19]45. About a year. It was an old ship, but we grew to love it to be honest with you. I think it was used in World War I, I believe, because boy, it was dilapidated. You had no choice.

	C:	What was the name of that ship?



	L:	They didn’t give it a name even. [Laughter] They called it the SC330. That was the name of it. USS SC330. They didn’t even—

	C:	So it was a small vessel?



	L:	It was about a hundred and twenty feet long, something like that. Of course, I had an all-Black crew, and I guess that determined what size or what type of ship we were gonna get. Because at that time segregation was really very prominent in the Navy. The Army wasn’t quite as bad but the Navy was.

	C:	Yes, sir.



	L:	And then those ships, you know, they got sleeping quarters and they wasn’t gonna have us down there all together. It just wasn’t gonna be that way. So they gave us a smaller one. And we came to love it, to be honest with you. When the war was over and they took us off and decommissioned it, man, it was like we had lost a member of our family. It was like, “Bye 330!” [Laughter]

	B:	So, what was it like for African American servicemen back then? L:	I don’t wanna be too quick, because things have changed.

	B:	Right, well the law changed for a reason.





	L:	But it wasn’t good at all to be honest with you. We realized—we had an all-Black crew, it was a small ship but I guess that’s why we could have an all-Black crew. But we were mostly college students. And we developed the feeling that they put us on here to see if we had the abilities or the capabilities of doing what ordinary things could be done on a ship. That is operation, maintenance, and repair. And we thought that they did this to see if we could do it. So, we felt like we were opening some trail or blazing something to open for those to follow us. And we were very dedicated and very devoted in our duties. If anything happened on that ship that needed repair, well we turned to or got it back in time because we felt that we were establishing a reputation. That’s how we looked at it.

	B:	So it really ties into that whole time of the double victory campaign. Double V: Victory at home, Victory abroad.

	L:	Yeah well—



	B:	Where you kind of feel like you are fighting for democracy in this war, whether you’re away or even here, so that you can ensure your rights here.

	L:	Well you know, there’s certain things that because of your accomplishments since the war, you try to forget. You try to feel like you moved on from that. Although it still lingers, and there’s certain instances might bring it back to the front. But you try to forget it. Yeah.

	B:	Do you remember any time where you all were discriminated against while you were—?

	L:	We were discriminated by being on a ship by ourselves! We didn’t know. They just gave us some training, they gave us some sea duty training and they sent us





to a specialized school. Because I was in the engine room gang, so they sent us to this school, taught us how to maintain, repair internal combustion engines and things like that. And then the other guys who were signaled, wherever they were, they sent them to specialized schools for that. And we had the training for it. But we couldn’t understand how we couldn’t all be together in as much as we’re all fighting the same war. So we just—we did the best we could but we really wanted to establish a good reputation and we hope that’s what we did. And I gotta tell you, we were really surprised and shocked when in 1945 we got the message that they had commissioned some African Americans as ensigns, the first grade [27:32] for officers, they had commissioned some in 1945. So we felt that we might have had some bearing on that. Because we really were dedicated in showing that, “Hey, we can do it!” You know.

	B:	So what were you all thinking about the Tuskegee Airmen at the time or the heroes on the rise?

L:  They were all heroes to be honest with you. You just can’t say enough about them, you really can’t. I don’t find words really adequately to express enough about them. I really don’t.

C:  So you were decommissioned before Truman gave his famous order of quote unquote integrating the troops, correct?

L:  Yes. What year was that, do you remember? C:  I believe it was [19]47.

G:   [19]48.



L:   [19]48. See, I was discharged in [19]45.





	C:	Yeah, from previous experiences I’ve been told that, you know, as you say, it might have been better in the Army or Marines, but I’ve spoken to a chief petty officer who said that in the Navy in the [19]60s it was still as bad.

	L:	I’m telling you, man. You know what, after I was in the boy’s ship about—I think it was a month, something like that. I took an exam for petty officer first class, I passed everything but they didn’t give it to me. They never said why. You can’t— What can you do? If you try to rip off too much, then they’re gonna—you never would get anything then.

	C:	Insubordination, right? That’s what they would say? L:	Mmhm. I didn’t get it.

	C:	And I was told that at this point they would stamp your record with your race? L:	I don’t know about that.

	C:	You don’t know about that, okay.



	L:	I tell you something, I found in my record here recently—in fact I got a copy of it, I think. I got a copy of the DD2-14 which talks about all your service. And I was browsing through it and guess what? They got me charged with a general court martial, yeah. And that was in my records. And the thing was so screwed up, they had the hearing dated 1946, and I was discharged in 1945! [Laughter] I sent a letter to them to see what they can do about it. But it’s in there, they said I— what’d they say now? I was AWOL for what, I don’t know, I don’t know how many months and then for so many days I didn’t appear to duty—all this stuff, man!

	And they had it at great lengths in 1946. In 1946, I was at FAMU. C:	Can’t be in two different places at the same time.





	B:	You went AWOL to college? [Laughter]



	L:	[Laughter] Yeah I talked to the representative, I talked to VA, the guy in VA, I showed it to him, he said, “Why?” I said, “Yeah, what do you think about this now? Where am I?” And one of the sentences was “bad conduct discharge.” And I served three years in prison. I said, “Where am I now? You tell me!” Anyway, he’s gonna get it cleared up. If I hadn’t done that, if something come up that they just wanna see my record, this thing would pop up. A general court martial. Got my name, everything there.

	B:	What would you say was the—If you had any memory about any interaction you had or any episode during the war, what would you say it would be? Any incident that stands out the most to you.

	L:	Let me see… Why would they send that little raggedy old ship down there for us? That was a throwback from World War I. I read up some of the background on it, the thing had been up in Mississippi in mothballs since World War I. Okay, when they got us there they didn’t know what to do with us because they were not gonna put us on a regular ship. So they had to find something to do with us. So they was searching around and they ran across these submarine chasers in World War I, that was in mothballs up on the Mississippi River. So they brought them out there, commissioned and brought ‘em down there for us. And they were wooden hulled, and they never did stop—you could retire to the pier and it’d still be doing like this, you know? I really thought that was—but then when you look at the circumstances and the times, I guess you couldn’t expect any better. We





had to prove ourselves, they just didn’t think we had the ability nor the capabilities of doing it, that was my opinion.

	C:	So you said, this was just to get it right on record, it’s the SS330? L:	SC330.

	C:	SC330.



	L:	The SC was for submarine chaser. C;	So you were in the Atlantic—

	L:	Oh yes.



	C:	And you stayed there for a whole year?



	L:	Well, not quite a whole year. Let me see, when was it? I think it was about ten months. Something like that.

	C:	Ten months. And I heard quite the experiences about being aboard a vessel in the ocean. [Laughter] Yes, sir.

	B:	So after you’re discharged you went back to FAMU, you said. Went to finish your degree?

	L:	For a while. I didn’t finish, no.



	B:	Okay so what year was this? [19]45 you went back to FAM? L:	Yeah, [19]45, I came out [19]47.

	B:	And after you came back to Pensacola, where’d you go?



	L:	I came back to Pensacola and I tried to find a job and I had that veteran’s preference for your discharge, I was using that thinking I’m gonna come back and get me a good job, you know. I couldn’t get a good job. I went out to the Navy base, I took an exam out there for aircraft architect. I drafted and passed





the thing, got put on the list, they never did call me. So I worked a job as assistant manager of an African American life insurance company, that wasn’t paying any money so I went to the post office and I took the exam there and I passed and they called me. I started off as a letter carrier, I worked there about twenty years as a letter carrier and then the post office moved to a new facility and they needed some technical help, so I went in as an electrician and I retired as the manager of plant equipment and engineering.

	B:	Okay. So what were the locations of the post offices? L:	Here in Pensacola.

	B:	The one on Jordan? L:	Mmhm, that’s it.

	B:	That’s where you were at.



	L:	In fact, I was the first African American to hold that position as manager of plant equipment and engineering.

	B:	And you were there from what years to when? L:	Oh I was there [19]47 to [19]86.

	B:	Okay, my cousin was there. L:	Now?

	B:	His name is Harold Robinson.



	L:	You gotta be kidding me! Not Harold! B:	That’s my cousin.

	L:	Is he still there?



	B:	No, he retired. And it was his mother who was the teacher.





	L:	Harold and I used to work together over there! We was in the same building, not together because I was over in the maintenance department. Oh, Harold’s my buddy! Oh man, I didn’t know that.

	B:	So when you asked what teacher went to FAM—? L:	Yeah.

	B:	His mother was the one who I was talking about. L:	Okay. Do you ever see Harold?

	B:	Yeah, I do.



	L:	Tell him I’m still hanging around! I don’t know what for but I’m here. [Laughter] B:	Well, I think he does the same as you.

	L:	Yeah, yeah.



	B:	He retired.



	L:	Yeah I used to work on the LSF, I was an electronics technician at that time.



	B:	So, what were some of the things you all would do for fun in those days? And we’re talking about the [19]40s, [19]50s, [19]60s.

	L:	Well now, you better not get in that too much.



	B:	Okay that’s fine, but were you living in the city of Pensacola at the time? L:	Mmhm. Yeah.

	B:	In what part of town?



	L:	I was living on the west side. Lawrence Street, right from the block.



B:  Okay that’s over where my aunt who I was just referring to was on. I think they were on Belmont too. But so I know some of the social scene was going on the blocks?





	L:	Well I didn’t do that too much. I was a married man, had a beautiful wife, she loved me, and I loved her and we wanted to spend just as much time as we could together.

	B:	Y’all ain’t go to dances and things? Did you go to the USO or? L:	No.

B:   What’d you do for fun?



L:  Well, she and I would go off ourselves. We would ride off someplace or go have lunch, or something like that, you know? Just between us. We had some friends but it wasn’t a thing that we just loved to do.

B:  What were some of the things available to Black folks in those days that you would like to—?

L:   The Savoy.



	B:	The Savoy? I found a picture from Savoy [38:57]. L:	Yeah and Abe’s 506 on the blocks, boy!

	B:	So my cousin, who we were just talking about, his uncle was Thad Robinson and his dad was David Robinson. And they were all down there.

	L:	David—that name sounds familiar. But the blocks was a hot thing then, boy. But it wasn’t too attractive to me.

	B:	Oh, it wasn’t?



L:  Nah, I used to go occasionally but not a habitual thing, you know. I just loved my wife. I enjoyed being—

	B:	Where did you all go to the movies?





	L:	Well now you know there wasn’t one place to go, you had to go back and go up the steps at the Saenger Theater. Don’t you remember that?

	B:	No sir, I’m not that old yet.



	L:	You don’t know we used to go around in the back?



	B:	Well I heard y’all used to go around the back but I know there was a Belmont Theater and maybe that closed earlier.

	L:	Yeah it did, but the Saenger was the one mostly we used to go to and you’d go around the back and go up them steps and be up in that little corner by yourself.

	B:	Oh now I did hear a few people say they would throw over peanuts.



	L:	Yeah, the kids did. The kids mostly. We took our baby down there one time, and boy, she turned that place out. We bought some popcorn, she had people looking back up the corner where the popcorn’s coming from because they had us way up in the back, you know.

	B:	So where’d you go to church?



	L:	I go to First Corinthians now, I’m a deacon over there.



	B:	Oh, okay. So I wanted to hear a bit about your family back in Barth. That’s what I wanted—

	L:	Oh, Lord. Tell me what you want to know. We grew hogs and cows and let’s see what else we had. We’d go fishing a lot, and we’d do hunting a lot—I love to hunt, now! Hunt quail, rabbits, things like that. And we always had a garden growing.

Some vegetables, everybody had that. Everybody in the neighborhood had that.



	B:	So you were growing the vegetables to sustain the entire family or?



	L:	Oh yeah, sure all types. Collards, turnips, beets, corn, watermelon, cantaloupes.





	B:	And when you would go to the store to buy things, what kinds of things did you have to buy?

	L:	You had to buy meal, flour, things like that.



	B:	So you just bought basics. Flour, like you said meal, salt, whatever. But your fruits and vegetables, all that was—

	L:	Not much fruit, there was a lot of woods—we had mostly vegetables. Like greens, you know, things like that.

	B:	So your father was a farmer? L:	My granddad.

	B:	Oh, your grandfather.



	L:	But we left the farm because, the strange thing about it, my dad—they did what they call sharecropping. You know, at the end of the year the money that they have, they split it up between the owner of the property and the one that did the farming. Usually, the one that did the farming was African American or Black. At the end of the year, they split the profit up, “Okay, this is your half, this is mine.” But my granddaddy would work out there and every year he said, “Well Vicus, we got plenty of food but we didn’t make any money!” We never had any money. Got plenty of food for you now, plenty of vegetables or whatever you want, plenty to eat but we didn’t make any money. Never gave him any money. So he got tired of it, and he left.

	B:	Was it easy for him to leave? Was it a contract situation?



	L:	It’s a normal thing, yeah. Let’s face it, the man owned everything and my granddad was just working for him but they did have an agreement that at the





end of the year, the profits that they made—because he didn’t give him any salary—the profits that they made, they would split it. And then they didn’t have anything to split. He got all the money every year.

	B:	Do you remember who the man was who owned the property? L:	Mmhm.

	B:	Do you want to share his name? L:	No.

	B:	Okay. [Laughter] That’s fine too. So your grandfather was also from Pensacola or did he come from somewhere else?

	L:	He’s from Alabama.



	B:	Okay so they were some of the folks who came over from Alabama to make your way here in Escambia County.

	L:	Mmhm. He’s from Georgia and Alabama. Big farming country up there. B:	And your grandmother was too?

	L:	Mmhm. My grandmother was not from Alabama though. She was—Well, I can’t prove this too much but they say she was Indian. She ran away from the tribe that was somewhere—I can’t think. And she married my grandmother’s daddy. But she had to go incognito because if they found that she had done that they would kill her. So she changed her name, changed everything, and they moved over in Santa Rosa County, a place where there’s not too much activity. We have some historical data on that. Yep.

	B:	And so was your mother from—?





	L:	She was born out there. Mmhm, on that farm. That’s why I don’t like to talk about it.

	B:	What? Because she was born out there? L:	No, because of the conditions.

	B:	Oh, okay.



	L:	And the way they treated them. B:	Oh, yeah. It’s out in Molino?

	L:	Barth, really.



	B:	Oh, Barth.



	L:	Which is, you know, basically the same thing. B:	It really hasn’t changed much.

	L:	I know. Mmhm.



	B:	So tell me about your wife. You said you all were married for how long? L:	Seventy-one years. Mmhm. What you want to know about her?

	B:	Well you said she’s recently—



L:  Yeah, did I show you a picture? That’s a picture right there. I’ve gotta show you a real picture though. Go get that picture over there, Bryan, the one on the—No I’m talking about the one where she was Ms. Fam. She was Ms. FAMU in 1947.

B:   Oh okay.



	L:	Yeah her picture is there. No, it’s the one on the dresser in there. B:	What did your wife do for a living?

	L:	She stayed here and took care of our family. I wouldn’t let her do anything else.



And I tell you, the times were—Kids were really going wild, you know? So she felt





it most beneficial to us for her to stay here and take care of the family, make sure that the children were given a proper training. And that’s why you see that young man there and my other kids here, because she did this. I took care of her and she took care of the family.

	B:	I believe in that too.



	L:	I do, I really do. She wanted to work, she wanted to and had all the qualities to work but we agreed on it, I didn’t rule with an iron hand. But we agreed on it. I’d tell her, I said, “You know what? Now you know what? The Bible says, ‘Wives, submit yourselves to your husband.’ And you supposed to do what I say do.” She’d say, “Yes, it also says, ‘Love your wife as Christ loved the church, and he gave his life for it.’” And I said, “Well that ended right there.” [Laughter] Yeah, you won that—gave his life for it, live for it. Yeah. Okay, I’m sorry for running off so much.

	B:	No, you’re not, you’re not. So what did she go to school to study? L:	She was at FAMU too.

	B:	Do you remember what she studied?



	L:	Yeah, she was in some kind of wild stuff they called Styling for Women. You know how all style all these and make all these different dresses, she was in that kind of stuff.

	B:	So she would have been there when Ellen Page was there? L:	Ellen Page?

	B:	Ellen O. Page. And now the buildings are named after all those early—like the Dean of Women. There’s a Perry Page building.





	L:	What’s that Dean of Women’s name? B:	I think it was Page.

	L:	Page? No, that was—I was trying to think when they were doing it. She was Mrs. Something Else. What was that lady’s name? But the Dean of Men—What was his name?—He was a big man. Big fellow, I can’t think of his name.

	B:	In your day I think it might have been Pender.



	L:	Pender.



	B:	I think of Frank Pender standing out— L:	I don’t know.

	B:	Yeah, I can’t remember. I have some old FAMU— L:	Now Reverend Miles—did you got to FAMU?

	B:	Yes, sir.



	L:	But you wouldn’t be there at that time. B:	No, I was there in the early—

	L:	Miles who was there—Was he the Dean?—I don’t think so. But he acted like he was Dean, boy, he took over everything. I mean, boy. In the auditorium they had us assigned to seats and if you weren’t in your seat when they had visitors boy you had to answer to him. Man, he’d make you feel like you’d destroyed the whole world.

	B:	Wow. Why’d you leave FAM?



	L:	Why’d I leave FAM? Ran out of money. B:	Oh, that’ll do it every time.

	L:	Mmhm, yep.





	B:	But you did well for yourself.



	L:	But I just felt that I needed it but then I didn’t need it. I felt that I could make it without it. It was harder though, believe me.

	B:	Why do you say that?



	L:	Because you had to study hard, you had to do more in order to do what you could’ve done much easier.

	B:	Mmhm. Do you remember a man named Mr. Howard King? L:	Yes I do. From here?

	B:	Mmhm.



	L:	Sure, his sister Lily King and I used to work together when I was manager of the Afro-American Life Insurance Company, she was one of my agents.

	B:	Oh, okay, okay. So you were at the insurance company on the blocks? L:	Yeah, on the blocks.

	B:	It’s a sherbet-colored building now. It’s orangey—



	L:	You’re talking about Atlantic Life aren’t you? Central, you talking about Central Life. But this is not—ours was Afro-American.

	B:	Oh the one founded by Commander Jackson though? By Abraham Lincoln village? Oh, so there was a branch here?

	L:	Yeah there was a branch here. B:	Where was it located?

	L:	Years ago, it was on—What street is that?—Rue Street, I think it was. Around the corner from Joe Morriston’s.

	B:	Jackson—





	L:	But it wasn’t a very attractive building. It was real small too. We only had, for the Pensacola office I think we had five agents that was it.

	B:	So would you all go door-to-door? L:	Yeah, that’s the way they did it.

	B:	Selling policies?



	L:	What was after I left FAMU looking for a job. They hired me over there for a while.

	B:	But I also heard there were also a lot of businesses down there. L:	Oh, that place has really grown up now. Mmhm, really.

	B:	Do you remember any Sundays? John Sunday? L:	I heard of him.

	B:	Dr. Sunday.



	L:	Dr. Sunday used to treat my grandmother years ago. In fact, he was the only doctor here, the only medical doctor except Dr. Erin. Do you remember Dr. Erin?

	B:	I’ve heard about him.



	L:	Yeah, there was only two African American doctors here. And Dr. Good, of course, was the dentist, you know.

	B:	Yeah a lot of them were dentists.



	C:	So you said that your upbringing was in a more country setting, like town, and then you lived in the city for your married life—

	L:	Yes, yes.



	C:	So have you heard the term food desert? Like in Gainesville especially there’s this like really big area, like you can walk miles and miles and miles and miles





and miles and there’s no groceries stores, there’s basically no food whatsoever except, you know, gas stations. And so people bring up this issue because they just keep on building out these areas and they don’t have the means to have good food. And this I read about in LA and South Central right there where you can drive for like forty-five minutes to get to your nearest grocery store. And so they started on the side of the road, like right by the sidewalk, there’s like a little dirt, they started planting trees and crops and all that. And so I just wanted to hear your thoughts as far as what do you think, you know, being someone that knew about this life where you were closer to the land and you’re closer to those things, do you think that plays an important role or its overall good? Because people around me just know nothing about that stuff and I’m from a rural community myself and I feel like we benefit more by getting closer to it.

	L:	Of course. Of course we do. We sure do, even the oxygen you get from the trees is better than living in a place where you don’t have any of this. You get this soil and contaminated dust and it’s really not good for you. I know I can get up early in morning—anybody—early morning before the air really gets contaminated, it’s a different feeling altogether. And especially if you’ve got some trees around. I really, yes sir, I really do. I think we should plant more trees.

	C:	That’s one of the initiatives.



	L:	Let me see, that’s my baby. That’s when she was at FAMU. B:	Oh wow, she was Ms. FAMC? Or Ms. FAM—

	L:	She was Ms. FAMC’s attendant. C:	Mmhm, that’s a beautiful picture.





	B:	Yeah, this picture is from when she was—say it one more time— L:	At FAMC.

	B:	At FAMC, and what year do you think it was? L:	[19]47.

	B:	And you said she was Ms. FAMU?



	L:	FAMC. I mean, she was Ms. FAMC’s attendant. You know, they had a queen and she was one of the… I got the other one I really want you to see, this is not the one.

	B:	He says you got the wrong one. [Laughter] L:	I want to show you the other one, mmhm.

	C:	So sir, usually towards the interview we like to give some space if you want to add some further comments or talk about something that we might not have asked but something you might want to—

L:  I think we covered everything, I think I’ve covered everything. I can’t think of anything—is there anything you want me to talk about? Anything you think I might have missed?

	B:	Well, yeah, I did have one question. L:	Okay.

	B:	I was gonna ask you about voting. So when did you register to vote?



	L:	Oh my goodness! Ages ago! Must have been… let me see, I’d say about seventy-five years ago because I’m ninety-seven now so maybe something like that.

	B:	So was it difficult for African Americans in Pensacola?





	L:	Oh yeah, they gave us all kinds of trouble. Yeah, at that time, but we were persistent, we just stayed on it. The only thing about it, at that time when you vote they didn’t have machines, back then they did it all little card and you stick it in there, and they put it in the drawing for counting later. A lot of times, somehow, those cards would get lost. We would say that big rat came in here and got that card—Oh that’s our church, that’s where I grew up.

	B:	So how did you register to vote?



	L:	Well, they let us come in and we’d sit down and fill this card out and then pass it back in and that was it.

	B:	So you didn’t have any problem registering, but then when you actually—



	L:	It was the counting. You’re registered because they didn’t want it to look too suspicious, I guess. And then you registered and you put the little card back through there, but somehow the big rat would get the card. The card would go somewhere when it come time to count, the card wasn’t there.

	B:	Understood, understood. And this was in what? The [19]40s? L:	Yeah. Yeah the [19]40s and [19]50s, in that area.

	B:	And what were some of the things African Americans wanted at the time that was important to you all as far as voting?

	L:	We wanted equality was the main thing. Equality in economics and salaries and so on. I always remember when they had the—Down at the Five and Ten Cent store in downtown Pensacola and they had the Crest and Wolf’s Board and Newberry and all those stores and they had the two fountains there. One had “colored” up on it and one had “White” on it. Okay, I didn’t see this but they say a





little boy went in there one day and he wanted some water so he went down to the first one that he saw, the White faucet, and got a drink of some water. So when he finished, he said, “You know what? I don’t know about that colored water but this white water sure is good!” [Laughter] I told that joke everywhere, I don’t know whether it’s true or not now! But that’s what was said.

	B:	Do you remember where the colored entrances were in Pensacola? L:	The colored entrances?

	B:	Right, so I know there was one at the Saenger.



	L:	They had one at Isis Theater up there but I don’t think they—Now the Belmont Theater, remember that, the Belmont Theater, that you could go in the front there because it was over on Belmont Street. But the Saenger was the only one I can think of.

	B:	I also heard about the bus depots, the bus stations, that there was a colored entrance and a White entrance?

	L:	There was, mmhm, yeah. You go in the bus station, got a nice big room in there, very comfortable. And then you go in the colored area, a little room, it was just as big as this around here, not much bigger than this. And this is what you had to do. If you wanted to see you had to go over to a little peep-hole in the walls.

	B:	What about other services, maybe City Hall? Could you go through the front door in City Hall?

		L:		You could go through the front door but there was a difference, you could see it. B:	What do you mean?





	L:	It seemed like they didn’t give us the respect that they gave the other people coming in. They just looked down on you and you couldn’t say too much against them because then they just—they really talk about you then. They might call you one of those things.

	B:	What about your interaction with the police?



	L:	Well I didn’t have any problem with that because I was a country boy and when it came to the law enforcement, I was always taught to back off and respect them. And I always did that and always taught my children to do that. Respect the law. If the law comes around and orders you to do something, then you do it. So I never had any problem with that.

	B:	Were you here when Dr. McDaniel was trying to get equal pay for the teachers? L:	Yeah, yeah, but I wasn’t involved in that too much. I remember it, mmhm.

	B:	And what about during the sit-ins?



	L:	Yes, that was a little—Reverend Matthews and all, we sat in on the county lunch counter downtown. But when I got off into that, we did go down there several times, but things had kind of waned off then, it wasn’t quite as bad. You could go and sit and they would serve you. But they would always make you last. And if people were there, even if someone else came in after you did, they would serve them before you. They would eventually get too you, but you would very absolutely be last.

	B:	Do you remember what it was like with the Black business class with—who else was in the war? I know some of them were Bembo, Morriston —





L:   Yeah I wasn’t involved with that too much. No, I know them but I didn’t have any kind of relationship with any of them, no. Bembo and Joe Morriston and they had the—What’s the name of that little place on the corner? —they used to have that. But I didn’t frequent those places too much.

B:  Well, I hope you didn’t frequent a funeral home! [Laughter] My godmother’s grandfather had a funeral home, the Goldstucker.

	L:	Yeah, probably, yeah, yeah. I remember that. B:	So thank you so much for your time, Mr. Lewis. L:	Thank you so much for coming over.

	C:	Thank you for sharing.



	L:	I wish I had something to offer you.



	B:	No, we’re fine. You offered us your story.



	L:	I would like to give you something if you’d like—I got some peanuts. C:	I’ll take peanuts, if you’d like. Are they Snappy peanuts?

	L:	These are raw peanuts.



	B:	He’s from Italy, remember, he doesn’t know— L:	Do you like—

	C:	They’re raw? They’re shelled but they’re raw? L:	You want some?

	C:	Sure.



	L:	I’ll give you a handful, can’t give you too many though, nope. Thank you very much for coming over and I enjoyed you. Hope I’ve been some help to you—

	B:	You’ve been so helpful!





	L:	Because I really didn’t get off too much in my naval career, but you know, so much for that.

	B:	Well hold on is there anything that you want to say about your naval career? L:	No, no.

	B:	I mean I think you shared a lot, especially about the ship.



	L:	I had some bad memories about the Navy. They’re okay. Alright, let me go get you some peanuts.





[End of interview]





Transcribed by: Abby Lovett



Audit edited by: Heather Halak June 5, 2021 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, June 7, 2021