AAHP 421; Mason; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 421 Carolyn Mason African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Hope Black on September 22, 2015 46 minutes | 21 pages





Abstract: Ms. Mason begins by explaining how and why her family came to move to Sarasota and the early development of Newtown. She then speaks about her experience in schooling and her experiences with segregation as a child. Ms. Mason describes how events such as the desegregation of schools changed the community and impacted her personally. She then recounts her journey into activism and public office before concluding the interview with her thoughts on how to improve the community,



Keywords: [Newtown, Sarasota, Florida, Florida History, African American, Segregation, Desegregation, Activism]



Standards

	SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws

	SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.



































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 421 (Newtown Oral History Project) Interviewee: Carolyn Mason

Interviewer: Hope Black Date: September 22, 2015



	B:	Are you ready to roll? M:	I’m ready.

	B:	Okay, its going. It is Thursday, September 22. I am Hope Black, interviewing Sarasota County commissioner Carolyn Mason, at the historic Bidwell-Hood House, in Pioneer Park. Commissioner Mason was elected to the county commission in 2008, and currently serves as the vice chairman. She previously served on the Sarasota City Commission from 1999 to 2003, and as mayor from 2001 to 2003. She has served as chair of the Sarasota County neighborhood grants advisory committee and as a member of the Florida Historic Preservation Advisory committee. In addition, Ms. Mason is chair of the Roy McBean Boys and Girls Club Advisory Committee, has served as vice chairman of the urban administration and transportation committee, as a member of the southwest Florida Hope Planning Council, the city of Sarasota’s civil service board, the community action agency board, and children and youth services advisory board. Commissioner Mason has been the recipient of numerous awards, including the Human Development Award for community service by the West Coast center, the Woman of Color Award, the NAACP Freedom Award, the SCLO Woman of Wisdom Award, the Freedom Fighter Award—Southern Christian Leadership Conference, and Girls, Inc. Commissioner Mason was born in Sarasota, and is very proud of her three children, fourteen grandchildren, and four great grandchildren. Commissioner, thank you so much for coming.

	M:	It’s my pleasure.





	B:	Let’s start from the beginning, if you will. When did your family first come to Sarasota?

	M:	Well as far as I can tell, my mother and my father came somewhere in the ‘40s— they came to Sarasota.

	B:	Was there a particular –



	M:	Better opportunities, is what my older sisters tell me. B:	And this was from Georgia?

	M:	My father—Georgia. My mother—Alabama. B:	Had they met before they came here?

	M:	No, they had not. It really is interesting, because my mother’s maiden name was Comer, C-O-M-E-R. And when she married my father, it became C-R-O-M-E-R, but they didn’t know each other before.

	B:	Did they meet at a dance, or –



	M:	I’m not sure where they met, or how they met, because my mother died when I was fourteen. And so I didn’t get to ask all those interesting questions. Only of my sisters, and they told me later on.

	B:	Where were you in the pecking order of the family?



	M:	I was the youngest girl, currently there are two older girls, in their [19]70s, and I have a younger brother, two years younger than I. I have two older brothers, who are deceased.

	B:	And, do they live in this area?



	M:	My one sister—the very oldest—lives in Winter Haven. And the other sister in Connecticut. My brother lives with me, though.





	B:	Oh, well that’s good. That’s good. What type of work did your parents do?



	M:	My father drove a cement mixer, and it was right over at Central and 10th Street.



It was R. C. Martin Concrete, then. And my mother was a maid.



	B:	For White families?



	M:	Yes, yes. The two families that I remember lived on, I believe it was 47th Street.



Just off of the North Trail and they actually lived across the street from each other and in the summer, when there was no school, I would go to work with her.

	B:	Oh, and help her, so she would get through her day? M:	Actually I played with the kids [Laughter]. And the work. B:	Did your parents have formal educations?

	M:	No, no. Neither graduated from high school. Because back then with Black children, a lot of them had to drop out of school to help the family sustain itself, so—

	B:	And so, were they literate? M:	Very.

	B:	Oh? So they really taught—



	M:	They taught themselves. And Black communities were very close knit. And so, if I learned something, I shared what I knew with others, and vice versa.

	B:	Okay. That’s wonderful. It would be good if there was more of that community spirit today.

	M:	It would be, it would be. Certainly would be. B:	And where did you live as a child?





	M:	As a child, I was born in Sarasota Memorial Hospital, but my parents lived at the corner of Eighth Street and Central Avenue. In what’s now the Rosemary district. I lived in that neighborhood until my mother died in 1964. And at that time, my brother and I moved with our oldest sister in Newtown, and her family.

	B:	And Newtown was established at that point?



	M:	Newtown was established, and even though the spelling is one word, Newtown, it really was “the new town” for Sarasota’s Black citizens because the housing in Overtown, the Rosemary district, was mostly rental houses. There were very few homes owned by the Black citizens.

	B:	Had your parents owned property?



	M:	No, no. My grandfather did but not my mother. B:	And so, who—did they rent the house?

	M:	I remember at one time, the Halton family, they rented from. And then the Colton.



	B:	Okay. So then you moved to Newtown. Educate me because I was a little confused. There was a community called, “Black Bottom?“

	M:	Black Bottom is Overtown. Black Bottom was our term for it. But it was an affectionate term, and so people who lived there were not upset when other people talked about Black Bottom. It wasn’t derogatory.

	B:	And it was synonymous with Overtown? M:	Yes, yes. One in the same.

	B:	And then when people moved from Overtown when Newtown was developed, did it leave many people in Overtown, or what’s—





	M:	No, no. It really did not, because the housing opportunities were much, much better in Newtown. Newtown afforded the opportunity for Black citizens to own their own homes. And so, there was a lot of that—

	B:	And it was developed by the county, or—



	M:	I’m not sure about Newtown’s development, simply because as a child, I was only allowed in Newtown on Saturdays and Sundays, when my mother would allow my brother and I to walk down the train tracks to my sister’s, and back home again.

	B:	But once you lived there, you were an adult? M:	No, I was fourteen when I moved there.

	B:	Let’s talk about schooling. At the age of fourteen, let’s go back a little bit and tell us about education—

	M:	Booker High School was the designated school for Black children in Sarasota County. So that means children from Venice, Florida, even the migrant camp at the celery fields, those children were bused into Booker High School.

	B:	But that’s around the Bayridge—



	M:	That’s Fruitville, the east of the interstate. Around the library. Around that area. So those children were bused in, but it was like a family, the school was. The teachers lived in the community around the school. Most of them bought homes there, so they actually could walk to work, and often times did, because they lived so close.

	B:	Did the school went from Kindergarten, through high school—





	M:	Through high school. There was, on the east side of Orange Avenue, there was an elementary school. And then [after] a few years that was torn down, and a new elementary school was built up at Myrtle and Orange on the west side. So you had an elementary school and a high school, there was no junior high school at that time.

	B:	And that was strictly for, Black— M:	Black children.

	B:	Okay. And teachers? M:	Teachers.

	B:	Also.



	M:	Yes.



	B:	Okay. Where—let me skip ahead for a minute, I’d like—in your own words—your childhood memories of living here, as a Black child going to Black schools, but still having some interaction with the White community.

	M:	It was an exciting time, as a child. While I distinctly remember “Colored” and “White” bathrooms in the train station, on Lemon Avenue. Or in the Five and Dime Store, both of them, on Main Street. And there were two theatres on Main Street that we couldn’t go in, because of the color of our skin. We had a theatre, a Black theatre, on Fifth Street, just east of Central Avenue. The building is still there, but it was—from a child’s view—it was good! I remember riding at the back of the bus because I had to. The public transportation. Not being able to go to Lido Beach. And having to go to Caspersen Beach, which was located in South County, just a little south of Venice.





	B:	And how did you get there?



	M:	Well my parents had a car, and so on a Sunday afternoon, it would be an all afternoon thing. Because there’s the drive down there, and then the drive back. But in spite of all of that, to me, it was a good childhood. We had a community in Overtown that was very close knit, the center of which was the church. I was Baptist, and so the Baptist church was at Seventh and Central, and the Methodist Church was at Fifth and Central. But those were the centers of the community.

My grandfather was a barber, had a barbershop on Central Avenue, and everybody knew everybody. Everybody looked out for everybody. We lived on, always lived on the east side of Central Avenue, so we were not allowed on the west side of Central Avenue without my mother’s permission and you keep hearing me say, “My mother,” because my mother was the disciplinarian in the family. If she didn’t give us permission to be on that side, for whatever reason, the neighbors knew that they had the OK to discipline us and send us packing back to the other side.

	B:	What about healthcare?



	M:	Healthcare—as I remember—that was segregated, too. There was one doctor off of Coconut, somewhere around Fourth Street, Dr. King. Dr. King had an office in his home. He lived there, and I remember a long screened-in front porch, and he lived there and I remember at times going there and waiting, and then going in to be seen. There were also a couple of doctors, I understand from my sisters, that made house calls. And one was a doctor, McClellan.

	B:	And were they Black?





	M:	Nope, they were not. B:	Oh, okay.

	M:	They were not. Not at all.



	B:	So they were ahead of their time? M:	Yes, they were. Yes, they were.

	B:	And if you needed to go to the hospital, Sarasota Memorial, was—



	M:	Sarasota Memorial was there, like I said, I was born in the hospital. But my brother two years later, was not born in the hospital. I don’t know if it was, they didn’t have time to get there—I assume that was the issue. But I was born in the hospital, so –

	B:	And were there separate entrances, or – M:	I don’t remember—

	B:	You probably don’t remember –



	M:	I worked at Sarasota Memorial, but it was in the early [19]70s and by then, there were not separate entrances.

	B:	Okay. Were you aware of the inequities in this –



	M:	I was, but my mother raised us to not see color. She raised us to, she said, “If we have to judge people, judge them by the way that they treat—and you treat other people the way that you want to be treated.” And example, when I would go with her in the summer, to work, one little girl that I was very good friends with, we were like sisters. I would sleepover at her house, she would come sleepover at our little house. Her mother, I remember, was an actor at the Player’s Theatre so, she was involved in community theatre, even back then. But the little girl





developed leukemia, and she died during our childhood. She was one family, the other family across the street, the children weren’t as friendly. And that was okay too, because I always had Dede across the street, and I could play with someone—she was my favorite.

	B:	In your mind as a young person, you were surrounded by love within your own family, the neighbors, and you didn’t feel a reason or need to go further into the world.

	M:	No, I did not. Not at all.



	B:	Where did you shop for groceries?



	M:	There was, at the corner of Fruitville Road, it’s now Fruitville Road, it was Third Street then. There was a grocery store called Margaret Ann, and that was the predecessor of Winn-Dixie.

	B:	Oh, really?



	M:	Yeah. And there were two neighborhood grocery stores. One of Sixth Street, run by Mr. James Horn and his family. And they both were on Sixth. Mr. Horn’s store was on the east side of Sixth. And then the Chadwick family had a store at the corner of Sixth and Central, but the west side. And it was really very interesting, because the Horn family would extend credit to the Black community.

	B:	Oh, these were White—



	M:	Yeah, yes. And the Chadwicks would not. B:	Cash on the barrel?

	M:	Cash on the barrel. And I remember it being very uncomfortable, as a child, for me to go into that store because they would follow you around to make sure you





didn’t pick up anything. But the Horns were not like that, at all. They actually hired one of the older kids from the neighborhood and taught him how to cut meat and they were really, really good people.

	B:	And the quality of the meat, was good? M:	It was great.

	B:	What about transportation? If you couldn’t use the family car? M:	Well, when we didn’t have a car, there was the bus.

	B:	And that’s where you had to sit in the back— M:	Right.

	B:	But then Civil Rights came, and it was illegal. How long did it take for Florida to catch up?

	M:	Well, I don’t remember because in 1973, I left. And I moved to Connecticut. And it was really interesting, because when I took public transportation—and I did all the time—I worked at one of the local hospitals. And I took public transportation and I gravitated to the back of the bus. And I had a coworker that was from North Carolina. She said, “Hey Mason. You don’t have to sit back there anymore, you can sit up here.” But it was such a habit, to this day—to this day—if I ride public transportation, I go to the back.

	B:	Isn’t that amazing? M:	Isn’t that amazing.

	B:	And do you still remember the drinking fountains?



	M:	I do, very very vividly. And as a matter of fact, when I drive down on an avenue, when I get to the corner of Main Street, I can see the train station. Walking down





Main Street, I can see the theatres. Well the Opera House was one of the theatres, so, that’s ever present. And the Kress Building is still there, so I can see a lot of—

	B:	Of memories.



	M:	Yes, yes.



	B:	From Connecticut, did you then come back south—



	M:	I came back in ’83, I moved back and I was walking through City Hall, on my way to Florida Power and Light. Remember, Florida Power and Light was on Main Street at one time. And, well this was in 1983, in September. And I was walking through and someone from an office called me by my maiden name. And I couldn’t see who it was, so I went towards the voice, and it was a woman I had gone through grammar school and high school with and was a Girl Scout with, and she said, “I didn’t know you were back in town,” and I said, “Yes, I just got back.” And she said, “What are you doing?” And I said, “Well I’m headed to Florida Power and Light, to apply for a job,” and she said, “Well why don’t you apply here?” And it was the city’s personnel department at that time. And I said, “Oh, okay.” So I applied there and I was subsequently hired, and I worked in the building department. That was my first job –

	B:	And where did you acquire, what you would call secretarial skills?



	M:	At Booker High School. My homeroom was in the typing room, the typing teacher was my homeroom teacher. And she said, “I’m going to make sure that each of you learns how to type so that at a very minimum, you can get a job typing, if you can’t get a job doing anything else.” And I was fortunate enough to be placed into





a program that was called “DCT,” diversified cooperative training. And that was going to school half a day, and working the other half of the day. But the work was connected to the school, and vice versa. I got paid—

	B:	Working for the school?



	M:	No, no. They placed us in businesses. My first job was at Sarasota Federal Savings and Loan Association, which was right next to Firestone—is that Firestone on Main Street? Firestone?

	B:	I can’t—



	M:	There’s a tire place, it was—I think its Firestone. I think its Firestone. But there was a bank right next to it, and that was my first job.

	B:	And then, did you stay in Sarasota?



	M:	Oh yeah, I stayed—I had stayed in Sarasota until 1973. B:	And then you went to—

	M:	Then I went to Connecticut for ten years, then I came back in [19]83. B:	Had you lived in [the] Philadelphia area?

	M:	No.



	B:	Oh okay.



	M:	I lived in Connecticut 9 years, and Pennsylvania—a little town in western Pennsylvania, DuBois, Pennsylvania, for a year.

	B:	And then you came back to Sarasota. If you can go back a little bit, and you’ve done it very well, is there anything you wanna add about the physical aspects of the community. What you say, what you remember—





	M:	The community was, there was definitely a dividing line. And for me, I call it the Mason-Dixon line, and it was Fruitville Road. It was Third Street. That was the dividing line.

	B:	Third and Fruitville.



	M:	Fruitville Road, before it became Fruitville Road, it was Third Street. And so that was the dividing line. Because North of Fruitville, Fruitville or Third Street, north was the Black community. And south was Downtown, the more affluent community. And there were places downtown that I could not go in because of the color of my skin.

	B:	The theatre—was that available?



	M:	Not until sometime in the [19]60s. it was sometime before 1964, because it was before my mother died that we were able to go into the theatres downtown. At the theatre, where the opera house is, the RC Cola bottling plant, which was on Fruitville Road, right around Osprey Avenue, they would put on shows in the summer. And they would be—I don’t know, Westerns or something “kiddy” related. And they would have an intermission, and they would have these prizes—cases of soda, or these humongous candy bars. I remember one that’s called the “Sugar Daddy,” and it was hard, kind of caramel on a stick, but it was huge. It was like two feet long, or something. It was—I had my eyes on that every Saturday. Or Wednesday, whenever those shows were. Every week I was gonna win one. And your admission was 6 bottle caps from the sodas. And so that was really easy. And I couple of times I won one of those big—but my mother—

	B:	Did you have to share it?





	M:	I had to share it with my brother, though. [Laugher]



	B:	What civil rights came into being, we began to talk about it, and then I kind of went around the corner with it. How did, once it changed—with the schools, where the schools became segregated, busing became segregated—what effect did it have on your life?

	M:	The desegregation of the schools came in the Fall of 1967. Before school ended in June of [19]67, we were told that we were no longer—that we would not return to Booker High School. That would have been, the fall school year would have been my senior year, starting my senior year of high school.

	B:	That’s tough.



	M:	And so we were told that we would not be back. They used Twenty-seventh Street—which is now Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Way—as a boundary. And those children living north of that boundary were assigned to Riverview High School.

And those children living south were assigned to Sarasota High School. And that was traumatic. It was traumatic.

	B:	It wasn’t a—well I don’t wanna put words in your mouth—



	M:	Well let me tell you how it was traumatic. It was traumatic because you now are breaking bonds that have been formed since kindergarten. And for some, even before. And then you put us into these schools with no understanding of what we can expect. Nor did the White children have an understanding of what to expect from us. All we knew was what we heard the adults in our family say around the dinner table, or in the living room, or on the porch. And that probably wasn’t





good. And so, for me, and for others like me, there was a great deal of apprehension. And I imagine with the White children, as well.

	B:	How many in your, well they had homerooms in high school. How many Black children—?

	M:	I don’t remember having any more than two in a class. It was frightening, it was very frightening. And I believe that it did far more harm than it did good.

	B:	Overall?



	M:	Overall. But the community, the Black community, didn’t even get the opportunity to discuss it with the school board. It was traumatic. In my senior year in high school, should be my best year, but it was full of apprehension.

	B:	Where were you academically? Did you feel that you weren’t on the same level as the kids who had been –

	M:	Well, you know, in hindsight, I think that we were even. I think we were. But I didn’t think, I couldn’t think past the fear of being around people I had never been around before. I couldn’t get past what might happen.

	B:	Were you in fear of bodily harm?



	M:	No, no. It wasn’t that. It was the unknown! I didn’t know what I was afraid of, but I was afraid.

	B:	And what about lunchtime? Did Black kids? M:	Yes, they would gravitate to each other.

	B:	For comfort, or— M:	For comfort.

	B:	To feel—





	M:	To feel… safe. It was a very awkward time, and I think—in looking back—I think it should have been treated just like we treat incidences of violence on campuses. ‘Cause I didn’t hear of a lot of that back then, but somebody should have talked to the children—all of the children—about what to expect. Somebody should have said, “You don’t have anything to worry about!”

	B:	Were there incidents of violence?



	M:	I don’t remember readily, but in years after, there were. And I think—I don’t think there was very much gained by the way the desegregation took place.

	B:	So you can change the laws, but you can’t change people—what’s in their hearts.

	M:	That’s right. And I think it could have been done in a more humane way. B:	Bringing some children together—

	M:	And helping them understand what was—what was going to occur. And I think the parents should have been afforded the same opportunity.

	B:	Did your—your mother was gone at that time. Your father or aunt—



	M:	Well my sister—by then, my father was an alcoholic. So my sister had custody of my brother and I. And she was very community minded, but from what she told me, the community didn’t have a lot of opportunity to express their concerns about—

	B:	To the –



	M:	To the—it would have been the school board. The Board of Public Instruction, is what it’s called.

	B:	Okay. When did the reader within you, the activist, what caused that to emerge?





	M:	That happened one Saturday, I went to—I was working at the City of Sarasota. It must have been about 1985, I went to see a production of Hi Hat Hattie at the Florida Studio Theatre, and I was with another Black woman that worked with me at City Hall.

	B:	And that was, what was the story about?



	M:	Hi Hat Hattie is the story of the woman, Hattie McDaniel, who played “Mammy” in “Gone with The Wind.” So it was a story of her life. So, at intermission, we went into the lobby and I was really dumbfounded to see that we were the only two Black people in the theatre. I was like, “Why isn’t this place full?” I said to my friend, and she said, “I don’t know.” She was from Memphis. So Memphis was a lot more progressive than Sarasota. And so—

	B:	In integration—



	M:	In integration, and in arts and culture. So after the production was done, I went over on Main Street to pick up something at the drug store there. And I met Johnny Hunter, who was the publisher and still is of Tempo News, which is a Black publication here in Sarasota. And I said to him, “I just went and I didn’t see any Black people and this is ridiculous, we gotta do something!” And he said, “Well, why don’t you write about it in my paper?” So I said okay. Well that wasn’t good enough, I encountered Patricia Caswell, who at the time, was the executive director of the Arts Council, and I said to her, “I went to see this production, and yadda-dada-da,” and she says, “Well, why don’t you join the Arts Council Board and do something about it?” Because here was my feeling. I knew there were people who were talented in the Black community, artistically. So and—how can I





be a bridge? So I offered myself, as a bridge and I said, “Use me.” And, indeed, she did. I probably was on the board at one time of every arts organization in Sarasota County.

	B:	So you were working for the—to enhance the artist and the audience at the same time?

	M:	Right. At the same time.



	B:	Now was Nate Jacobs in the community at that time?



	M:	Not at that time. If he was here, I didn’t know him at that time. I met him in later years.

	B:	Henry Porter—



	M:	Henry Porter was, I went to high school with Henry Porter. B:	And had he started the—

	M:	He had, yes he had. He had started the church, I remember his first album that was called the “HLP Love Campaign,” and they actually walked through Newtown selling those albums. ‘Cause I bought one!

	B:	[Laughter] When did you first—and I think you may have answered that question when you were talking about the woman who was the head of the arts council— what I’m trying to find out is, when you began to interact with the White leadership –

	M:	That was it! The Sarasota County Arts Council.



	B:	And then you went on, when did you start to attain public office?



	M:	Well, that didn’t happen until 1999. I went on to be a part of different boards where people would ask me to be on their boards, to try and reach the Black





community. And that was my goal—to be a bridge. And so I worked at City Hall from [19]73, from [19]83 to [19]93.

	B:	When you met the friend, who suggested you apply for a job there –



	M:	[19]83 to [19]93, and then in 1999 I was elected to the city commission. B:	And then you became mayor in, 2003 was it?

	M:	2001. I was the vice-mayor, and the mayor, who was Al Hogle who is now the chief of police in Longboat. Al went to the city of Bradenton to be its police chief. And so by default, I became the mayor. And that was halfway into his term. And then my colleagues thought it was fair if they chose me to be the mayor for a full term, and so—

	B:	So it was a term and a half, so to speak. M:	Right. Right.

	B:	And then you went on after that, to –



	M:	After that, I lost my re-election bid, so I worked in the community. And in 2008, I ran for the county commission and was elected.

	B:	You’ve had an amazing journey.



	M:	I have. I have, indeed. It’s been a real learning experience for me, because now growing up, I was on one side of the tracks, if you will. But as an adult, I had the opportunity to work and volunteer on the other side, and then bridge that with my Black community. So it’s been absolutely rewarding and educational for me.

	B:	It has, and I see that, but you did it. You accomplished it. And you’re my hero, I think you’re amazing.

	M:	Well thank you and I’m still learning, I’m still learning.





	B:	We have a few minutes left. What do you want to say about the issues, problems within the—let’s talk about Black community now.

	M:	Here’s what I want to say. I want to encourage all people to get involved in their community. Get involved! Understand how your government works, understand how your neighborhood association works, because if you have that education, then it’s a lot harder for you to be taken advantage of. It is a lot easier for you to get things accomplished in your neighborhood and in your community. I want everybody to learn what I have learned. I want everybody to get involved so that they know what I know. And the only way you can do it is to get involved.

	B:	How can we, the community at large, influence teenagers who might be going astray, to come back and make a life for themselves?

	M:	I think programs like the Community Youth Development, and then the city has a youth group, I think as much as we can, we need to try and touch not only those groups, but any groups of, organized groups of youngsters like at community centers and Boys and Girls’ Clubs and Girls, Incorporated and the YMCA. As much as we can start to talk to those groups of children or wherever children are in the libraries. Wherever they are, we ought to be taking our messages there, and then inviting them to our places of business and volunteer. Give them the opportunity to learn what we have learned. And I think that can help build our community going forward.

	B:	Thank you, commissioner. Thank you so much. M:	Thank you!

	B:	It’s been a privilege.





	M:	It’s my pleasure. [End of Interview]





	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 10, 2020