AAHP 179; Bright; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 179 Haridelle Taylor Bright African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Marna Weston on July 20, 2011 35 minutes | 23 pages



Abstract: Haridelle Taylor Bright was born in Keysville, Georgia, and describes the entanglements of her family history with a slave-owning White family there. She also describes her father as a very successful businessman, who supplied music to juke joints and owned one or more dime stores. Later, her family moved to Augusta, Georgia, and she attended a Catholic school which had always been integrated. She moved to Lawtey, Florida in 1947, and she describes what the town and community was like at that time during the Jim Crow era. She suggests that there wasn’t much racism per se in Lawtey, but does describe witnessing Ku Klux Klan activity in a variety of contexts and times. Offering personal reflections, Mrs. Bright describes her husband and how she met him. And upon prompts by the interviewer, Mrs. Bright offers her memories of various events from Barack Obama’s election to the assassinations of John F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King Jr.





[Keywords: African American History; Jefferson County, Georgia; Bradford County, Florida]



SS.912.A.5.9 Ku Klux Klan SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws

SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.



























For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 179

Interviewee: Haridelle Taylor Bright Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date: July 20, 2011



	W:	And this is Marna Weston for the Sam Proctor Oral History Program at Philadelphia Missionary Baptist church in Lawtey, Florida on July 20, 2011, and I’m here with Ms. Haridelle Bright. Ms. Bright, thank you very much for agreeing to do the interview today. Could you please state your full name from birth?

	B:	Haridelle Taylor Bright.



	W:	Haridelle, that’s beautiful. My grandmother was Lucille, I had Ruths. You don’t hear a lot of those names anymore. Where did your name come from?

	B:	I don’t know. My aunt named me, I don’t remember where she got the name from.

	W:	Okay, and when and where were you born?



	B:	I was born in Keysville, Georgia—Jefferson County, Keysville, Georgia—in 1929 on November 25, 1929.

	W:	So you were a Thanksgiving baby. B:	Just about.

	W:	Okay, do you have brothers and sisters?



	B:	Well I have, I had, two sisters and one brother. My older sister passed and also my brother.

	W:	And what were their names?



	B:	My older sister’s Billie Bell, Billie Bell Taylor. And my brother was Clift Kelley. W:	Clift Kelley. And who were your mom and dad?

	B:	My mother was Bailey Key Taylor, and my father was John Garran. W:	Where was your mother originally from?





	B:	She was from Keysville.



	W:	And how about your father? B:	He’s from Keysville too.

	W:	Okay. I want to take you back a little bit with their history if you have it, if you have it, and if you don’t recall that’s fine, but we’ll start with your father’s side. Who were his parents?

	B:	His parents as far as I knew, I don’t know too much about his parents, was Scotts; that’s about all I know, his father’s name.

	W:	How about on your mother’s side, who were her parents?



	B:	My mother’s name side was the Key side, and her mother was Mariah Key, her father was Charles Key.

	W:	Were they originally from Jefferson County, or did they come from somewhere else?

	B:	Yes they were right there from Jefferson County.



	W:	Okay, now do you know anything about their parents?



	B:	Well, no, only thing that I know about my, as far back as they told me, is we was two different sets of Keys. One set was the White set, that was on my granddaddy’s side, and for the Black side [inaudible 2:48] and Keysville was named after my great great grandad who was just some White man.

	W:	So the White and the Black Keys is that because there were, well, like on a piano [Laughter], but it was because of slavery?

	B:	It was because of slavery.



	W:	So the Keys family owned land or were plantation owners there.





	B:	Yes, before they all were White. I think with down through the years, the White guy that owns the slaves back then, he gave all the Keys so much land, that’s as far as I know about it.

	W:	Now do you still have any contact at all with the White side of your family from that part of Georgia?

	B:	No, no I really don’t, gosh that’s been eighty something years ago. No I actually don’t.

	W:	What kind of chores did you have when you grew up?



	B:	Well, my mother she worked sometime in people’s home, sometime in the field, cotton fields and stuff like that. My daddy was a very successful business man. He owned his own funeral home, as a matter of fact he owned four at one time. He owned dime stores. He’s the onliest Black man that bought his own juke boxes and threw them into different people’s juke joints back in those days.

Because that’s always a White people’s job. So, he came from kind of a slaver. He did pretty good.

	W:	Now when you say a juke joint, I know some people probably know what that is, but in your mind could you describe what you’re talking about?

	B:	The juke joint back in those days was what we call night clubs now. It’s a night club. Back then they called them juke joints. They had some man, or somebody would be in there playing a piano, playing a [inaudible], picking a guitar. And then when the juke boxes came out then they would play to juke joints, so they called them juke joints.





	W:	So you had some chores, how about your brother and sisters, did they have chores too?

	B:	We did all. Mr. Kyle, see about the cows, see about they all hogs and stuff like that, but we didn’t really have too much to do.

	W:	How large was your homestead where you lived, your family’s house and land, how many acres would you say there were?

	B:	It was my mother, we lived on five acres.



	W:	Five acres, and how many animals were there to take care of there?



	B:	Oh, I know we had a couple of cows, and I think we had one or two hogs. My step dad, he worked for the railroad.

	W:	Now what was his name? B:	His name was Jeff Glomar. W:	Okay, where was he from?

	B:	He was from Raleigh, Keysville, somewhere around there. And so we really didn’t have to work. We just did what we wanted to do.

	W:	Now you say your step daddy, but your daddy owned businesses, so what happened that you ended up having a step father?

B:  Because my daddy and my mother separated when I was really young, when I was a baby, so really young. So he went his way, he has another wife, and my mother got married to someone else.

W:  Now I know that’s something that children don’t usually have privy to, but maybe over the years you may have gained some kind of understanding, is it something too private to discuss why they divorced?





	B:	Oh, no, no. I don’t know why they divorced, because, you know, back then, you didn’t ask questions, and they never volunteered to tell us. My daddy was always in our lives, but that’s all. But I have reached out for the known, now then, that I know now, because he has been in to this undertaker. And I would like just to know how he did it, because my father really couldn’t write his name. He couldn’t spell his name. And how he get to come to do all of these things. Those are the things I would like to know.

	W:	But he was still a successful business man. B:	He was a very successful business man.

	W:	So he used his wits probably a lot. Tell me about your stepfather, you said he was with the railroad, what did he do?

	B:	He worked on the railroad, tying down tires, building railroad tracks. W:	The railroad was a big business in Keysville?

	B:	The trains back in those days, that’s what transportation was, was trains. It was a very few buses, even if there was any buses going on, I don’t think there were any buses coming through. Everybody road the train because that was the transportation back in those days.

	W:	Because your stepfather was in trains, did you do a lot of train travel when you were young?

	B:	No, I did a lot after I grew up but not when I was young.



	W:	After you grew up. What is your first memory of going to school? Where did you go to school for the first time?

	B:	We went to Keysville Palmers in Keysville.





	W:	Okay, and what kind of a school was that?



	B:	It was—I think it went as far as eighth grade or ninth grade, I think, I’m not sure. W:	Was it a two room school house, one teacher?

	B:	No we had several rooms, different teachers, but we did have over where my mother went to school, it was only one school. You know, one teacher.

	W:	What was the name of that school? B:	That was Keys Grove School.

	W:	When you were going to school what was your favorite subject and who was your favorite teacher?

	B:	Oh my God, I don’t remember my teachers’ names. It was so long ago. [Laughter] I sure don’t. I used to remember my teacher. I used to remember the counselor, but gosh all that’s gone. If I had known—I thought I was coming to tell you about somebody else. I found out I’m being—so I really got to look it up, cause I don’t know. [Laughter] I can’t remember. I do remember going to school, but I just can’t remember the teachers. I should though.

	W:	Do you remember the games that you played at school? Some people have talked about the may pole and other things. What kind of games did you play growing up?

	B:	We had May Day, we did the may pole and played ball and all stuff like that.



	W:	Did you like being athletic? Did you like to play the games? Or did you kind of stand on the side?

	B:	I stood on the sidelines.





	W:	You stood on the side. In school, did you play any games at all? Did you play any sports?

	B:	No, not at all.



	W:	Okay, so you did what girls did. B:	Yes I did.

	W:	And what kind of stuff was that? What kind of stuff did you do as a young girl?



	B:	We played dolls, and stuff like that, and just played. What’s that game we used to play? Hop the warp, and stuff like that. Jump rope, I remember those, the little thing that you play that you—

	W:	Hopscotch.



	B:	Hopscotch, I used to play that and stuff.



	W:	Where did you go to church when you were growing up?



	B:	Well, they went to Keysville, Key Grove, that was our church, it was named after a Key. Only Keys went there, and I went there until we moved to Augusta.

	W:	Okay, now what caused your family to move to Augusta from Keysville?



	B:	Well my father—my stepfather—and my mother separated, and then my mother moved to Augusta and that’s where we stayed until I grew up. And then I went to Catholic school, went into the Catholic school, which was integrated. It was never segregated. We all had White teachers. The sisters and mothers were all White. That was the first time we knew any White people.

	W:	What grades were those that you went to the Catholic school?



	B:	As far as I can remember—I remember going to the seventh, but I don’t know because if I even made it back through to the seventh or not, I really don’t know. I





know it was through the seventh. When I came out of school I just thought one day, “Bam, this is it.”

	W:	Why did you stop?



	B:	I don’t know, because I like to travel. All I wanted to do was to get out of there, and my brother, he came to one—came up there one year and asked my mother to let me come back down here with him. And I never had come back down here with him. I came down here, and I been down here ever since, except a few years I lived in Detroit.

	W:	So you left Augusta, came to Lawtey, and just a few years in Detroit. What year did you leave Augusta to come to Lawtey?

	B:	In [19]47.



	W:	1947, so right after the war. B:	Uh-huh.

	W:	What did you think about Lawtey in 1947? What was it like around here?



	B:	There wasn’t too much to talk about. Now, although we had a lot more peoples here.

	W:	Oh really?



	B:	We had a lot more people. We had a lot of children, because here and— W:	Was that because of the military?

	B:	No, because peoples had little children there. Some families had sets, twelve or fourteen, most people had as much as they—you know, a lot of children. We had a church full of people.

	W:	What church did you attend?







B:

This one right here.

W:

This one?

B:

This is the one I joined when I came here.

W:

Okay, so this is the first church and you stayed here.

B:

I haven’t moved at all since then.

W:

When you did business, when you went to shop for food or when you had to do



any kind of service, was any of that with White people or was it just with the



Black community?

B:

Oh, it was White people.

W:

Okay.

B:

They owned the grocery stores.

W:

Who was the people that owned the grocery store?

B:

Someone’s named Harry Water, and I remember him and—

U:

Kelley?

B:

Oh here was Kelley, yeah, here was Kelley. What about the name that rode the



bus? Drove the school bus?

U:

Morris.

B:

Morris.

U:

Ms. Pease.

B:

Who?

U:

Ms. Pease [Inaudible].

B:

Jane Morris; I remember those.

W:

Okay, so were there any Black business owners in Lawtey that sold things?





	B:	Yes, we had one store out here, they call it Thompson. He had a grocery store that people go out there and buy from him.

	W:	Okay, and how was his business? Was it brisk? Did he have a lot of people there?

	B:	No he had a good business. It was a very good business up until he got too old and died. I think then his wife’s children all grew up and they were smart enough to be nurses, and some others were school teachers, so they didn’t have any use for it. His wife was too old to work so it was kind of let down.

	W:	Okay, were there any other businesses of any kind? Mechanics or doctors?



	B:	Yes we had, we had one—What was his name? Around the corner, I can’t even think of his name. Tony Crummety, he was real good. And we had a lot of . . . The first Black mayor, I think, was from Florida was right here in—Chose us here in Lawtey.

	W:	What was his name?



	B:	His name was Rob Scott.



	W:	Rob Scott. Did you vote for him?



	B:	He was voted in before I came back down here. I had left so I didn’t vote for him, but I voted after then because after I got married I stayed down here. And then we had another night club here, the one that I thought that the pastor told me, I thought to tell him about. [Laughter] And that was my brother. He bought, I guess, if you was—Kelly’s Night Limit? He did that. He run that for fifty years.

	W:	Where was Kelly’s Night Limit located at?





	B:	Raft town, of course, around the corner there. And he had all the famous singers, James Brown, and all those—

	W:	It was a Chitlin’ Circuit place. B:	Yes, I think so.

	W:	Okay. Muddy Waters, anybody big?



	B:	Most all the great stars that you see back in those days, they started right around here. They used to come down here and play.

	W:	Now you sound like you have a lot of knowledge of it. Did you see any of those shows?

	B:	Oh yes, yes. Oh yes, yes.



	W:	Who was your favorite artist that you saw?



	B:	Well, James Brown was one of mine because he was always there just about every other week, and Joe Simon.

	W:	The hardest working man in show business.



	B:	And I can’t remember ‘em all, but I know that we used to have a lot of fun out there.

	U:	Ray Charles went there.



	B:	Ray Charles. Yes, I saw Ray Charles and he was driving his own car. Lot of people don’t believe that because he’s supposed to be blind, but he was driving. And Ike, Tina Turner, Little Richard, and some I can’t remember ‘em all. [Inaudible]

	W:	You said he drove his own car, was that kind of a rare thing for a Black person to have their own car?





	B:	No, no, he’s blind.



	W:	Oh, I thought you meant James Brown. B:	Ray Charles.

	W:	Well that was something for him to have a car, was it, if he was blind. What did he need a car for?

	B:	I don’t know.



	W:	I guess because he could own one. B:	I guess so.

	W:	Besides the mayor, who were, in your opinion, the significant Black figures of the area? I know people from all walks of life can be important, whether it’s a minister or a seamstress, or somebody that does honest work of any kind, but who in your opinion were the leading figures of the community?

	B:	I don’t know, but we have a, let’s see, what I remember—what’s their name?



Jesus, my mind’s going. Deacon Franklin and his family. Now they also worked in the strawberries. He worked at the base, and they had four—Is it four boys?— become doctors. Or the three? I think they had three. Three, I think of. Ms. Addy, how many sons you had to become doctors? Three or four?

	U:	Three.



	B:	Three. Then we had another family, she had one son, became a doctor. W:	What was the name of that family?

	B:	They live by [Inaudible]. U:	[Inaudible]

	B:	Who?





	U:	Ally Strong.



	B:	Ally Strong. And we had a lot of adults. We had the Johnson family, which was very good to us, and they had a bunch of children, all of them went to college. Back in those days that was nice. And we had the Moores, all that children finished school. Who else was with us? I can’t remember them all.

	W:	You said the base. I just want to clarify because people might not know what base you’re talking about.

	B:	Yes, at Cecil Field, wasn’t it? Or was it? Cecil’s Field, Cecil Field.



	W:	Okay. Now did you ever go to things and see entertainment, or at Cecil Field or anything like that?

	B:	No, I never went out there.



	W:	Oh, okay. Well now you know a lot about the entertainment in the area, you— We’re sitting in the church that you’ve worshipped in for many years. What are some of the things that you’ve seen happen in race relations over the years? First, do you consider the state of race relations here in Lawtey to be good now? And, I’ll let you comment on that first.

	B:	Well, I don’t think that we had too much real racism I should say, not since I can remember anyway, although we stayed on the side the railroad track, they was over there, but we had to go over there, but I don’t think the relationship between Blacks and Whites was too difficult. Not to me it wasn’t. As long as you stay in your place, of course.

	W:	So now when you say, “Stayed in your place, of course,” could you describe?





	B:	Yeah, you stay over here, you stayed over here, and you go over there and you respect them now, and that was it. I don’t remember any mention here in—I remember in Georgia, though. I don’t remember any here.

	W:	An actual lynching took place?



B:   Oh, yes, in fact, some guy that they thought that had raped some White girl. And I remember, one night, we woke up. They was all knocking on our door because they thought we was hiding him out, and all you could see through the wood was lights and white sheets. I remember that.

W:   You saw the white sheets?



	B:	I saw the white sheets. That’s the closest to a lynching that— W:	Did you see the cross burning?

	B:	We saw the cross burn. I’ve seen several crosses burn, and during the time that I was just thinking of here, Mr. Scott, and when he was voted in, they burned a cross in front of his house.

W:   Were you ever scared when that happened?



	B:	You know, no. No, because I didn’t realize how dangerous it was. W:	Were other people scared? Did they seem like they were scared?

	B:	I bet my mother and old poppy knew the seriousness of it. They probably was, but I was a child, I didn’t know.

	W:	And now your mother in law, I didn’t ask you about being married, I’m sorry, what was your mother in law’s name?

	B:	Her name was Florence Williams. W:	Okay, and her husband?





	B:	Her husband passed away before I met her.



	W:	Well, who was your husband and how did you meet?



	B:	I was working at Kelly’s, my brother’s place, and he came in and ooh.



[Laughter amongst the crowd] I was about 21, about 22, and I was real free. And all the young men come and I would work behind the counter. I’d go over and kiss them. For what, I don’t know, just flirting. And so he came in, he sit to the counter and he didn’t say anything to me, so I went over and kissed him. And he said, “I don’t want you kissing nobody else.” Then I was done with my kissing days.

	W:	Now what was his name?



	B:	He was named Emmett Bright. W:	And where was he from?

	B:	Right here in Lawtey.



	W:	Okay, do you know when he was born? B:	He was born here in Lawtey.

	W:	No, what day?



	B:	Oh, it’s January the 8th, 1935.



	W:	Okay, and what was his profession? B:	He was a concrete contractor.

	W:	Okay, and how long did he do that?



	B:	He did that about—Oh my God, I don’t know—Maybe thirty-five years, or forty years. Up until he had to retire. He did that all his young days.





W:  Now when I asked you about him you said “ooh” and lost your breath. Is that because when you first saw each other you knew? Or was it after the kiss?

B:  Yeah, I don’t know. I just [Laughter] I don’t know, but I said to you I was thinking because I had to tell the story how I got just to meet him. Because I was around kissing all the boys.

	W:	Did you have children? B:	We have four.

	W:	Okay, what are their names? From oldest to youngest.



	B:	The oldest one is Deborah Barber. She lives in Lawtey. And the next one is my son, he’s Emmett Jr. He has a church in Lincoln. And my next oldest one is Judith Thomas, and she lives in Bradenton. She does contract work. She started off as just working there then she got moved up until now she just go around sample the concrete, something like that. She’s been there for about 16 years.

And I have a baby daughter. She lives in Indiana. She works for, I don’t know what she works for, but she’s, oh God.

	W:	What’s her name?



	B:	Her name is Michelle Williams.



	W:	Do you have any grandchildren, or great grand’s?



	B:	Yes I have four, five, six, eight, ten grandchildren and one play pro football for a while.

	W:	Oh really? What’s his name? B:	His name is Anthony Bright.

	W:	Where did Anthony go to high school?





	B:	He went here to Bradford County.



	W:	Bradford County High? Did you ever go and see any of his games when he was playing?

	B:	Uh-huh.



	W:	And what did you think about your grandson playing football?



	B:	He was thrilled because he always wanted to play pro so he got a chance to play.

	W:	Now, who did he play for?



	B:	Well he started off at the—I can’t think, it’s been so long I can’t remember, I haven’t even seen them all—in Jacksonville. And then he went from that door to—

	W:	The Jaguars?



	B:	No he never did play—He had been with the Jaguars one year after New York.



They was playing their last game, and after they lost that last game he didn’t play. He got back even to the one in Atlanta.

	W:	The Falcons?



	B:	Falcons. And he played for, oh my God, the one in North Carolina. W:	The Panthers.

	B:	The Panthers; that’s where he played until he was hurt.



	W:	So, currently is he retired or he’s under—Nobody’s playing right now because they had the lockout—But does he expect to play anymore?

	B:	No, no, he haven’t played, he got hurt. W:	Okay.





	B:	So he had to retire from that. W:	Okay. What is he doing now?

	B:	I think he’s a, he’s body building, got him a little body building business that he—.



	W:	With ten grandchildren, I’m sure you must have great hopes for them. What do you think about the state of the country right now, and the future that your grandchildren will have?

B:  I think that they’ll have a much better future than my children had. If they would use their head, but most of them, they’re little. But some of them are doing well and some are not doing so well.

	W:	I’d like to mention some just short phrases or people and then get a reaction from you from whatever those are. So I’ll say something and just see, I’ll say “Mickey Mouse,” and you tell me what you think back. So, Martin Luther King.

	B:	Well I admired him. I did. I never been out walking with him, but I think some of the Johnsons used to march with him. Didn’t ya’ll used to march? One of y’all used to march with Martin Luther King? I thought they did, but I never did, but I still thought he was doing a wonderful job. I think he did a wonderful job.

	W:	John F. Kennedy.



	B:	I think he was fair too. I think he was a good president.



W:  Do you remember where you were when you heard that President Kennedy had been killed?

B:  I was at work, and I was working at the yarn factory and the sewing factory in Lake Butler. And then the lady—the owner—she come out and told us, “Lets close it up,” because he had been killed.





	W:	What was her name?



	B:	It’s just been bobbing around. Stevenson. And I guess she sent us all home. I remember that. And I remember coming home, turning the TV on, and everybody was crying. I remember that.

	W:	Where were you when you heard that Dr. King had been shot?



	B:	I was working for the Kentucky Fried Chicken, and this White fellow came in and I heard him say, “We got the old coon at last.” I didn’t know who he was talking about, and they said, “Who?” “Old Martin Luther King; they killed him today,” he said. And I remember that they announced it in there, and they called him old coons. Said, “We got the old coon at last.”

	W:	What was the reaction from other people?



	B:	Well it was all White peoples he was talking to. So now I can guess all of thems was glad that he’s dead too.

	W:	What did you think when you heard that they landed a man on the moon? And first of all I want to ask you. [Laughter] I don’t want to say [Inaudible] who don’t believe anything, but I’ve spoken to several people who don’t believe that they really sent people to the moon. So, first, do you think that America landed a man on the moon, and what do you think about that?

	B:	You know sometime I don’t know. Once I felt no, and then, but now I begin to think maybe they did because we’re doing strange things. We’re doing a lot of things that has never before happened. So we probably did go on the moon.

	W:	Okay, and yeah you supported that. B:	Uh-huh.





	W:	Should we go back?



	B:	Well, if it’s going to do any good, yes, but if I don’t see and I can’t say that it’s doing any good or not and they say it is, I don’t know.

	W:	What did you think about President Johnson?



	B:	I guess he did pretty good for the time we was in. I think he carried out some of Kennedy’s ideas that he wanted.

	W:	Did you hear his speech when he said, “And we shall overcome?” B:	Martin Luther King?

	W:	No, Johnson. When Johnson said it, yeah.



	B:	I probably did, I heard it, but I don’t recall that.



	W:	What about Watergate? What did you think about that?



	B:	Well, you know, everybody did made fun of that soul. We thought that was terrible. Nobody liked him. Nobody really liked the man anyway so I didn’t think too much about it.

	W:	But he got elected twice.



	B:	Yeah, well, who pushed him in, and why? W:	The great silent majority.

	B:	Yeah, just like there it was, you have now. Bush was elected twice, and you know how he wasn’t the greatest president.

	W:	Well he was president twice, some people say he was only elected once. [Laughter] But he was president twice.





	B:	He was president twice. Our governor, his son, was elected twice. Wasn’t the greatest governor we had here so you just have to along with it whether you like it or not.

W:  Well we’ve led up to it so I’m going to go and ask the big bomb. What did you think about Barack Obama being elected President of the United States? And was it something you thought you’d ever see?

	B:	That’s something I thought I’d never see. I only wished that my mother and sisters all could have lived to see it. Because I’ve heard Black people say so many times that, “You will never have a Black president.” And I heard a lot of White people say, “You will never.” And I met lot of people surprised, and I’m glad that I lived to see that.

	W:	So you’re glad that you saw it, and some people were surprised that he was elected at all, but were you surprised that he won the state of Florida?

	B:	Yes, yes because Florida is a Republican state.



	W:	As you look back upon your life, do you have, could you give an example of something that you feel really good about that you’ve accomplished and maybe something that if you had to do over again you would have done it different?

	B:	Oh, I don’t know. Well, I don’t know, there’s a lot that, but right now I can’t think.



There’s one thing that I do appreciate is my children. I appreciate the way I raised them, and I think they all turned out pretty good. I had some that’s not good, but right now I think I have pretty good children. And I’m proud of them, and I’m proud of my grandchildren.

	W:	And something you regret?





	B:	No, no, not really. I enjoyed my life, and I enjoyed the things that I’ve done, and I’ve done quite a bit. That I carried my children when they was little. I carried them on vacations, and I don’t mean just one day vacation. We flew to the Bahamas. We flew to different states. We flew into the mountains. When we went on vacation we went for a week. And that, those are the things that I’m really proud of. That I was, could do those things. And that now, my children, they do their children the same way. They always see that they have a vacation every year; a nice vacation. Not just going to Disney World that morning and coming back this afternoon. We went to Disney World, we stayed a whole week. We got a motel and we went for once, their newest park. Yeah I had a pretty good life.

	W:	Well, on behalf of the Sam Proctor Oral History Program, Ms. Bright, I’d like to thank you very much for this interview. It’s been very entertaining and I like to close my interviews first by just thanking you again for taking the time to speak with us, and then to ask you if there’s anything that maybe we didn’t cover, if you have any kind of a final comment, and whatever that comment is, whatever you want to say about the interview or anything else, when you conclude your comments that will end the interview. So this will be the last time I have any comment.

	B:	Well, I think you covered fine because I didn’t have time to think about it because I was surprised I was supposed to be up here. But I enjoyed talking with you, and I hope something that I said that you can use, and be helpful to somebody else, someone else. That’s about it.





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Jennifer Romero, February 11, 2016 Audit edited by:	Jeffrey Hartmann, November 21, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019