AAHP 551B; Austin; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 551B Sharon Austin African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Bianca Ramirez on December 12, 2018 44 minutes | 27 pages



Abstract: In this interview Sharon Austin first talks about her early childhood years with her parents Annie Ruth Wright and Willie James Wright and her two siblings Janice and Marvin. Ms. Austin recalls when Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated and what she was doing at the time of the incident. She then speaks about her education experiences in Westwood High School and Christian Brothers College. Ms. Austin remembers her first true encounters with racism while attending Christian Brothers College and how it affected her. Afterwards, she goes into detail about getting her Ph.D. and becoming the African American Studies Program Director at the University of Florida.





Keywords: [African American History Program, University of Florida, Director, Institute of Black Culture, IBC, Black Affairs]

















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 551B

Interviewee: Sharon Austin Interviewer: Bianca Ramirez

Date of Interview: December 12 2018





	R:	So hello.



	A:	Hello.



	R:	This is Bianca Ramirez, with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program in Walker Hall. Today is December 12, 2018, and I’m here with Dr. Sharon Austin. Could you please state your full name?

	A:	Sharon Austin.



	R:	Oh okay. [Laughter] And so when and where were you born? A:	I was born in Memphis, Tennessee in 1965.

	R:	Okay.



	A:	August 2nd.



	R:	And how was your experience growing up in Memphis?



	A:	It was pretty nice, it was a very close knit southern community. Working class. Very good public schools, very good teachers. I was raised in a church. So, it was just overall a good place to grow up.

	R:	And how important was the church to your childhood growing up?



	A:	It was really important, I think the church is really important in southern culture just in general. So, I was raised in a church. I have one brother and one sister, we went to church practically every Sunday. Mom was really involved in church. My dad didn’t go to church for some reason. Occasionally he’d go for Easter, or a special occasion, but he didn’t really go to church, I don’t know why. But religion was a real important influence in our whole neighborhood because on Sundays





you would see people get up and get dressed, and you would see mothers taking their kids to church, so yeah.

	R:	And what was the name of your church?



	A:	Well we had different ones, but it was mostly Mount Vernon Baptist Church for most of my childhood.

	R:	Okay. And so you said you had a brother and a sister? A:	Um-hm.

	R:	What were their names and like age range?



	A:	Okay I have an older sister Janice, who’s a year older, and my brother, his name is Marvin and he also used the name Chris, and he’s four years older.

	R:	Okay. And your parents, could you please state their names and —



	A:	Okay. My mother’s name is Annie Ruth Wright, and my dad’s name is Willie



James Wright.



	R:	Okay. And what did they do when you were growing up?



	A:	They had mostly jobs working in factories. They both were born and raised in Mississippi, in the segregated South. And so my dad was born in 1938, he died in 1998. My mom was born in 1940, she died in 2016. They were born in a place called Robinsonville, Mississippi, a small community, and they were sharecroppers. My dad only had a sixth grade education, my mother had a high school, and when they moved to Memphis, my dad moved to Memphis when he was about, I think he was about seventeen, he just moved on his own and just started working. And then later my mom moved there when she was about





twenty, and they mostly just had working class jobs, just working mostly in factories.

R:  Okay. And so you were born in [19]65, and so that was probably during the Civil Rights Movement, I mean, you were very young, but do you happen to have any memory or maybe can recall how growing up in that time influenced you?

	A:	Um-hm. I don’t remember it, but I remember when Martin Luther King was assassinated April 4, 1968. We lived in a small apartment that was only about ten minutes away from Lorraine Motel, and my parents told me that my dad had left work, as it was about seven o’clock in the evening when he was shot, and so my dad was at home and all of the people in the neighborhood made their kids come inside because they were scared, because they didn’t really know what would happen, but I don’t remember it. I do remember being bussed, and we lived in a small apartment at first, which only had one bedroom, and then later in 1970 my family and I moved to a house that I was raised in in a nicer neighborhood. At the time it was mostly a White neighborhood, but the interesting thing about Memphis is that when Black people move in, White people move out. And so the neighborhood now is a Black neighborhood, and I remember when I grew up there, you could see a transition happening really, really quickly; like as more Black families moved in, White families would move out, and I didn’t understand it when I was a child, but then when I was probably in fourth grade, we were bussed to a school that took about forty-five minutes for us to get to, and we’d have to get up real early and take the bus to this White school. And the thing is, that was a White neighborhood, but as more Black kids came to the school and





more Black families moved into the neighborhoods, it became a Black neighborhood too. So then you were bussing Black kids from a Black neighborhood to another Black neighborhood, so I do remember bussing but I don’t remember there being any tensions among the kids, the Black and White kids. The White kids that I knew and I were beginning our fourth grade. I think we got along fine, we played together, and everything was fun. I don’t remember even one bad incident with them, and all of my teachers were really good so I don’t remember any bad incidents with them. But, I do remember having to get up really early and having to take the bus across town when there was a really nice school in the neighborhood that was ten minutes away that we couldn’t attend, so I do remember that.

	R:	Okay. So can you talk about, maybe more specifically, like high school experience and then when you went to college, where you went, that whole education experience?

	A:	I went to high school at Westwood High School in Memphis, which is a pretty much all Black high school. I think there were two White kids that I could remember at the entire school. They were identical twins, but everybody else at the school was Black. It was a good school that got a really good education. It prepared me well for college, and then I graduated from high school and I went to a small liberal arts college in my hometown called Christian Brothers College.

And that I guess was kinda the first time that I ever really experienced any racism. Because in college, just little subtle things that you deal with your classmates, they would be friendly in class. But as soon as class ended, you





would see your classmates, and they would go out of their way to avoid you when they were with their White friends. And so that was the first thing that I noticed. And then I also noticed that some White people have a problem touching Black people. And if you pay for something, and you hold your hand out to get change, they won’t put the change in your hand. They’d put it on the counter to keep from touching you. So that was something that I noticed too. And then sometimes the people would just be rude, I think that some of the White students just expected the Black students to be dumb. And they were really surprised when we weren’t. And even Black students, we expected the White students to be smarter, and we just thought that they had all these advantages, they went to better schools, they were all middle class, and I found that that wasn’t true because many of my White classmates grew up in working class neighborhoods too, and they were first generation college students too. And I used to think in high school that they wouldn’t have to study, but they did. [Laughter] And so that surprised me, and then I thought that they would just be so much smarter, would make grades so much better than ours, they didn’t. So really I guess a lot of the things that I learned growing up in Memphis, once I started to deal with people of different races, I found that those things weren’t true. But Memphis was a very segregated city, in terms of where people lived. There were White neighborhoods, there were Black neighborhoods. Now there have been more immigrants who are Latino and Asian, but back then everything was Black and White. And you could really see that in the political scene, when Black people ran for offices like mayor, I mean you could really see the tension and the hostility





that those candidates were confronted with, and White people who would refuse to even open their door if Black people were campaigning and canvasing. So I knew that there was something going on racially in Memphis, I knew it was a really polarized city, but I didn’t really have any problems with it, until I went to college. And even there, I had White students who sometimes they wouldn’t associate with me, but then again, sometimes I wouldn’t associate with them, because I learned early on that when I dealt with White people, unless they spoke to me first, I didn’t really talk to them. And it was because sometimes they’d be friendly to you, and then they see you later and they’d act like they didn’t know you. So, sometimes I just wouldn’t talk to them. But it was a really polarized place.

	R:	Um-hm.



	A:	Yeah.



	R:	And around what time was this?



	A:	This was in the 1980s. I started college in the fall of 1983. R:	Okay.

	A:	Yeah.



	R:	And what did you major in? A:	I majored in history.

	R:	Okay.



	A:	Um-hm.



	R:	And so, after that did your college experience, like everything, the entire encompassing experience, did that motivate you to pursue your Ph.D., or—





	A:	Well that came along later. When I was in college, at first I wanted to go to law school because that’s the only option that I thought would be available in terms of just a professional position. Either you could be a lawyer, or you could be a teacher, and I didn’t want to be a teacher because I’d heard so much about the low pay, and I’d seen at school the way the teachers were sometimes treated and disrespected by students and their parents, so I didn’t want to be a teacher. And plus, I didn’t think that I would be able to teach. I mean, even back then, if you had told me that I would someday be a professor, I wouldn’t have believed it, because I just didn’t think I would ever be able to get in front of people and speak, because I had a fear of public speaking. But I decided to go to law school because I figured that that would be something that would lead me to a lot of different career options. Even though I knew I didn’t really want to be an attorney, and it wasn’t until I decided to get a masters, because I had planned to work for the government, and I got a masters in political science, and it was only then that I thought about getting a Ph.D. and that was because I saw that there were so many opportunities for minority Ph.Ds. because there were so few of us that I decided to get a Ph.D., and I saw that there were so many jobs for professors, and that’s when I decided to become a professor.

	R:	And so you said that you wanted to be a lawyer because you would either be a lawyer or a teacher, that was kind of like the option, but then eventually you got a masters in political science. So was there anything that kind of opened your eyes, like, “Oh this is what I want. Like I want to pursue this Master’s,” or do you remember the kind of aha moment at all?





	A:	I think it was just following the political campaigns in Memphis, because it’s a predominantly Black city, a lot of Black people were running for office, and I used to follow those campaigns, especially those mayors campaigns. As a matter of fact, that’s what my dissertation is about. Just Memphis electing a Black mayor in 1991 and why it took so long, because the first African American candidate ran in 1967, and for the next few decades, Black candidates ran, but they were never successful, even after the city became predominantly Black. So I guess the “Aha!” moment was following those campaigns, studying for my masters, and then I think another thing that encouraged me to continue to go to school was — because I went straight through— was that there just weren’t very many jobs available. It’s easy for students to get internships now, to study abroad, and even do things like you’re doing now, with oral history, I would’ve loved to do something like this when I was a student, but these opportunities weren’t there for us. I mean they were there, but you didn’t really hear very much about people getting internships. And so it was hard to find jobs and to get networks that could help you find jobs, and so I decided to get a doctorate because I couldn’t find a job. When I finished college, I worked my way through college, working at Federal Express, unloading airplanes, which was back-breaking labor. Worked there for three and a half years, and then later when I graduated from college, I was still working at night at FedEx, and then shelving books for two fifty an hour, and so I did that for a while. And then I worked at some libraries for a while. And then I just couldn’t really find a position that really paid anything, so I didn’t have a choice in the matter but to stay in school because I had no reason to quit, and





so the “Aha” moment was just following the campaigns, studying political science, learning about the opportunities for minority Ph.Ds., and then learning about the many job opportunities for Black professors.

	R:	Okay. Did you stay in Tennessee for your masters and Ph.D.?



	A:	I stayed in Memphis for my masters, and University of Tennessee Knoxville for my Ph.D.

	R:	Okay.



	A:	Yeah.



	R:	And how was your experience kind of overall, if you can sum it up, getting your Ph.D.?

	A:	The coursework itself was not difficult, as a matter of fact, I enjoyed it because I learned a lot. I wish I could have learned more about urban politics and minority politics, which is what I teach now, but I didn’t have any training in it, and people just assumed that I was Black and had a doctorate in political science that I knew about Black politics, but I had never studied it. I studied it on my own in independent studies, but there were no classes there. There were no Black professors at any of my schools, at my undergraduate institution there were no Black professors on the entire campus. So I guess if it’s anything regret, it’s that, but to sum it up in just a few words it was really difficult just dealing with the racial climate in east Tennessee because where I was from in Memphis, west Tennessee was Black and urban. East Tennessee was White and mostly rural.

And so you had people who had all these horrible stereotypes about Black people and I also learned when I was driving from Memphis to Knoxville, it was





like a six hour drive, there were certain places that you shouldn’t stop for gas because if you stopped at a place and if you had like these little small family owned convenience stores, they had a lot of really racist paraphernalia and pictures and images and the people were hostile and it was even kinda scary, like, if you stopped anywhere between Nashville and Knoxville, it was kinda scary in those small towns. But it was difficult because that’s where I confronted blatant racism. It was east Tennessee, people didn’t want Black people there. They didn’t want Black students there, and it was just a really, really hostile place to go to school and even more hostile place to live.

	R:	Um-hm.



	A:	Yeah.



	R:	Now you’re the director of the African American studies program, you said that you didn’t really study Black politics, so how did that connection kind of come about?

	A:	Well it came about when I graduated with my doctorate from Tennessee and I had majored in American government and public policy and constitutional law. And my first job was in a pan-African studies department at the University of Louisville and I was asked to teach Black politics, and so I had a pretty significant student loan to pay back, and when they asked me “Can you teach Black politics?” even though technically I couldn’t, because I had never studied it, I told them yes because I needed the job. And so I had to pretty much over the summer just learn what Black politics was and learn how to teach it, and put a class together by the fall of 1992, so that’s kind of how that started, and then just





over the years, people just assumed because you’re Black that you know this, and they expect you to do it, and if you’re under contract, you pretty much have to figure out how to do it. And so, I just started teaching more courses that dealt with Black politics and minority politics because that’s what people wanted and that’s what I was on the contract to do so I had to pretty much had to make myself teach myself how to do it.

	R:	Wow.



	A:	Yeah.



	R:	And where was this? Where was your first job? A:	University of Louisville.

	R:	Louisville, okay.



	A:	Um-hm.



	R:	So if you can go over your process from Louisville to University of Florida, yeah. A:	Well, I was at Louisville for three years, it was an urban campus. I think the thing that frustrated me was that I taught mostly African American students, and I think

Louisville must have a really bad public school system because my students were severely underprepared for college, and I couldn’t relate to them. The one thing that used to really bother me was that I take probably eighty percent of my students were Black, and their grades would be so low that I ended up failing a significant number of them, and that really bothered me, because I had gone to school in these White environments and I went into teaching with the intention of trying to educate and help Black students and I couldn’t, because they would just fail. A lot of them. It was because many of them were single parents, many of





them were on welfare, many of them were from really, really poor families, and so that was a large part of it, but some of it was a case in which some of them weren’t from poor families, they were middle class, they just didn’t do their work. And so it used to really frustrate me a lot because I would have this class that was predominantly Black and I’d say fifty percent or more of them would fail. And no matter how I taught the class, they would fail. And so after a while I just kind of got frustrated and then the students there were different from students here, at least students here are respectful and relatively polite. These were students who would confront you, they’d yell at you. I remember once I had to call security on a student because he was so out of control because he was upset that he had failed, and so I stayed there for three years. It was a wonder I was able to stay that long, and then I left and I went to University of Missouri-Columbia, which was totally different. Very White, very hostile. I had a joint appointment in political science and Black studies, so I was able to still teach Black students there but they were much better students and so it was a much more pleasant place to be. But the problem with that job was just the department of political science was very hostile. The administration in it was very hostile, the town was very White and hostile, and then I was there, a single woman living in a place like that by myself having to deal with all the pressures that I had to deal with from my colleagues at work, and the people in political science had no respect for Black studies. And so I had this joint appointment in which I had to do things for Black studies, but I had to do things for poly-sci too. And poly-sci didn’t like it, the fact that I had to do things for Black studies. So I stayed there, I managed it for five





years, I don’t know how I managed to be there that long because it was a very miserable place to be. And so then I left and went to University of Michigan for a year and I came here to Florida for a year. By this time my husband and I had met, we hadn’t gotten married yet, but we had met. And that’s sort of is what influenced me to come to Florida. And so I was a visiting professor, and I started here in the fall of 2001, thinking I’d only be here for one year, but it all worked out, that I was able to visit for three years, and then I was able to get a permanent position, so I’ve been here since the fall of 2001.

	R:	Wow, okay. So did you have any support in Missouri, like support system, some people you can relate to?

	A:	I had friends. There were a few professors that, you know, they hired us all at about the same time, and we were friends and we would sort of confide in each other and help each other. In the department, I had a couple of professors who were very nice, who were senior faculty. But for the most part, I had so many problems there that, I mean, it was unbelievable the amount of abuse, pretty much, that I suffered on that job. And so even if I had had a better support system, I couldn’t have stayed there because it was just really, a very hostile place to be.

	R:	I understand.



	A:	Yeah.



	R:	And so your experience in University of Florida in 2001 and you’re still here, so I guess if you can go over, kind of the process, what you did, and then now how you became the director of the African American Studies program in 2011?





	A:	Yeah, I was here for ten years before I became the director. I’ve only become the director since 2011, and I was in political science. I wasn’t in Black studies, and it’s interesting that after I served as a visiting professor and finally they were trying to put together a position that I could apply for so that I could stay here permanently, they approached the person who was director of African American studies at the time, and asked her if she wanted me to have a joint appointment and she was opposed to it. Because she felt that I hadn’t had enough training in African American studies, and in a way I guess you could say that she was right, because I didn’t have my degrees in it, but none of the faculty had training in African American studies, because most of us attended schools where it was offered but it wasn’t offered at the graduate level so most of us had never really taken any Black studies classes. But for some reason, I guess they just didn’t want me [laughter] in African American studies, I’m not sure why. So I was in political science, and everything was fine for ten years, and then we had a director, the person who served before me, had served for one year and then she got a position in Atlanta, and she left. And I was thinking when she told me she was leaving, I was like, “Wow, you know, wonder who’s gonna be over that program now, I mean [laughter] there’s nobody on campus that could be over the program, and the dean who was in office at the time made it clear that he was not going to have an external search, because they had had external searches for director before, and they had failed to hire someone, and those searches can be really expensive. So he made it clear that they wanted someone who was already here to serve as director, but there were not very many people here who





could teach this, or who know anything about this discipline. And so the previous director asked me if I’d be willing to take over as interim, and I said “Well I don’t really know,” because at that time the program had a reputation for being really troubled, and so I was like, “I don’t really know if I want to take this on because I’m in political science,” and I’ve not ever had any problems there, and I don’t know if I really wanna be bothered with this program and plus, when I first wanted a position here, they didn’t even want me there, so I don’t really think I’d be the right person, but then the dean called me in and talked to me and so I became the interim director for one year, and then after that they had the permanent positon. And so I liked working with the program, especially with the students, and so I applied for the permanent position and so that’s what I’ve been doing. This is my eighth and this is also my final year, so they’ll be looking for a new director who will be starting in the fall.

	R:	Oh okay.



	A:	Yeah.



	R:	So before I ask you what’re your future plans, I understand first of all, you’re experienced being the director of the African American studies program, and also because we are trying to understand the history of the program, so if you have any information on how it came about, and yeah.

	A:	A lot of the information about how it came about, it came about in the late 1960s, and it was a part of the Black campus movement and the Civil Rights Movement and the Black Power movement as well. On a lot of college campuses, as Black students were finally being admitted to White universities they were demanding





that there be more Black faculty, and a curriculum that was more multicultural. And so that was going on all across the country including here at Florida. The Black Student Union was very much involved in protesting and doing the things that were necessary to make it possible for the program to be here. So the program was put in place in 1969, and they hired its first director in 1970, and that was Dr. Ronald Foreman. He was the director of the program for thirty years. But for the many years that he was dedicated to serving the program he didn’t get the resources that he needed because I don’t think anyone really, I mean to some extent, people didn’t want this program here. They didn’t respect it, and they didn’t really respect him. So he was just one man just trying to keep everything together and he managed to do that until he retired in 2000. And we began offering the certificate in 2001, the minor in 2006, and then the first majors graduated in 2014.

	R:	Okay. But you weren’t involved in the program when the certificate came about right?

	A:	No, I wasn’t.



	R:	But you were involved for the major? A:	Right.

	R:	Can you talk about the process?



	A:	Yeah. For many years, the program had been trying to get a major, but for I guess a lot of people would give you different reasons as to why it was so difficult and why it took so long for us to finally get it, but I know that for at least about seven years, they had been working on trying to get a major. I worked on the





proposal for two years, and I was finally able to get it approved. But it took a lot of work. I remember working on the program evenings, weekends, holiday breaks. It took a lot of work to finally get the process ready to be approved. And I think the thing that really hurt the program was the fact that the directors didn’t really stay. After Dr. Foreman left, I think there were maybe five different directors.

There was one person who served only for a year and a half. Another person served for one year. Another person for three years. Then another person for one year, and then me. And so I think that people probably wanted to get the proposal approved for the major, but there were so many directors who would come and go that one person would start the proposal, but then that person would leave. And the next person would come in and they’d have to try to pick it up, and then that person would leave. So I think that had a lot to do with it.

	R:	And do you think the turnover rate is due to more cyclical, systemic issues on campus or just kind of not really?

	A:	I think so. I think especially with the turnover in the director’s position, all of the people who stepped down as director, all of them left. None of them are still teaching here. And I think a lot of it is because they might have gotten better opportunities, but also because in one sense, there was one woman who was a senior scholar and I don’t think the university did enough to try to keep her. And then in another sense, the people who were directors would disrespect it, because of just the nature of running a small program, you don’t really have the same amount of authority as people who are in large departments. And so that’s why it’s really important for us to try to get departmental status, because there





are so many things that happen, and we don’t really have a say in things that happen that even concern our own faculty and so after a while, it kinda gets frustrating, when you’re in administration and you find out that you have a professor who has gone through a tenure promotion process, and you didn’t even know about it. You didn’t even know the person was up for tenure, because the person didn’t tell you, or you make an assignment to a professor and you ask them to teach a class and they don’t wanna do it. Or you tell them to do something, and they don’t do it. And then you try to include it in their letter to let people know this person is not doing his or her job properly, and it’s taken out, because the chair of the other department thinks that “This person is doing fine in my unit,” but it’s almost as if people find it acceptable to disrespect African American Studies, including even some of the people who even work in the program. I mean it’s like they use us to get a job at UF because they want to come to UF, but they don’t really want to work for our program, they’re not truly as committed to our program as they should be.

	R:	Mm, I’m sorry to hear that. Okay. And so I want to talk a little bit about the Institute of Black Cultures. So when did you first find out about the Institute of Black Cultures?

	A:	I found out about it as soon as I got here, you know because so many of the students were involved in IBC and also La Casita, and plus they were right across the street from my office, because my office was in Anderson Hall. So I knew about them immediately.





	R:	Okay. Do you remember when you first stepped foot in IBC, like kind of how that feeling was?

	A:	I thought it was really nice, and I couldn’t help but to think when I first went there, I don’t remember the exact program but it was for some type of program they had, and I went. I liked it because it reminded you of like a house, and it gave the students a place where they could just come and just feel comfortable, and that’s something that’s really important on a predominantly White campus. So I immediately thought it was nice, and La Casita was too.

	R:	Definitely. And did you ever speak at an event at the Institute of Black Cultures— A:	Um-hm.

	R:	How often would you go throughout at your time here?



	A:	I’ve spoken and participated in several of their events, even before I became director. That’s one of the things I liked about it is that they always tried to have a group relationship with the faculty and they were always inviting us there so that we could meet with students. Every year in the fall, they would have a reception, and they would allow students and faculty to meet. Black students to meet Black faculty. And then they would have different things, food for thought. One of the problems I think with the institute for Black Culture is that they also have had a lot of different directors in place and that’s something that means that you don’t really have the kind of stability for the kind of growth that you want to achieve, but overall I mean I’ve gone there several times over the years, and it was always a really good place to be.





	R:	So when you found out that the IBC was going to be torn down and the idea was to fuse it with La Casita, yeah I just want to hear about your work with students and kind of your feelings, and that entire process.

	A:	Right. I even have taught courses at the IBC, and I teach a spring break class called “African Americans in Paris.” I usually do a lot of the recruiting at both the IBC and La Casita. They would have these things called “food for thought,” and they would invite faculty to come and to give presentations about different things, to talk about our research, they did a lot for Black grad students, and they would have them come and do things for their research. But I knew that the building, both of the building themselves, were in poor condition, and so they renovated them, and I thought, “Okay well maybe that’s fixed the problem, but really it hadn’t because even when they were both first built, especially with the IBC, it was supposed to be a new building, but they just instead converted an old funeral home into the building, and so they had to condemn the two buildings because its destructors were just not good at all, so I understood that. But then I think when the rumors starting about them merging the two together, that was something that I really supported the students on when they said that they didn’t want that to happen, and I think the thing is that over the years I saw the way the two units work together. La Casita emphasized Latinx culture, but they also worked with the IBC. They had a lot of the common problems, the students there had same problems that Black students had. And so the fact that they wanted to remain separate didn’t mean that they didn’t want to work with Black students, or vice versa. It was just that the importance was for them to have a place so they





can be with people who are like them, and celebrate their culture. And I thought that was something that was really important, so when they talked about having the little connecting thing, it was something I was immediately suspicious of, and I was very much opposed to it.

	R:	Definitely. So now that IBC hasn’t been around for about a year and a half, have you seen any difference in how students feel on campus? I mean I know that this is a predominantly White institution, so there’s going to be some difficult feelings regardless, but do you think that any sense of maybe fear or kind of isolation has increased during this time that IBC hasn’t been around?

	A:	I would think so, because one of the things that I noticed about both the IBC and La Casita is that they would always do things at the beginning of the fall semester to welcome the new students, and so it was almost like telling minority students that this is a place where you can come to get the kind of support that you want. This can be your home away from home. And now the students have lost that. They don’t really have a place where they can go like they had before. I’m sure they get together and do things, and there are other places on campus but it’s not the same. So I think that there’s definitely a void there, because neither one of the buildings are there anymore.

	R:	Right.



	A:	Yeah.



	R:	Do you have any thoughts about race relations in general, anything you’ve observed on campus from your time at University of Florida. Has it stayed static, changed, kind of?





	A:	Well, I think race relations have remained the same as they were when I first came here. I came right after One Florida was implemented, that was the executive order that was put in place by former governor Jeb Bush that said that race can no longer can be considered in public education, and also there can’t be any more minority scholarships. I saw the impact of that because there was a major decline in Black student enrollment and also Latinx enrollment when I first came here. As far as the racial incidents on campus, I think it pretty much remained the same. I think at any White university, you kinda expect that something will happen, and it’s really sad and unfortunate but the climate hasn’t really improved. I can’t say it’s gotten worse either, it’s just that I think when you go to a White institution you pretty much know there’re just certain things that you’ll have to deal with. And a question for minority students is it really worth it to come to a school like UF that’s a top ten pubic university when you get much better financial aid opportunities and other opportunities than you get at maybe FAMU or another Black college, but is it worth it considering the way that you’re gonna be treated? You’re not gonna have the same sense of pride in your institution, you’re probably gonna be pretty isolated and in many majors we still have situations in which Black students are the only student in the class and I can easily sympathize with people in that situation as that was a situation I was always in, especially in grad school, I was the only Black student in the entire grad program, only Black student in an entire Ph.D. program at Tennessee, I was the first Black woman to have ever got a doctorate in political science at Tennessee in 1993 and since then, only one other Black woman has gotten one.





So I think you can finish school and do well when you’re in isolated environments like that, but it makes it very difficult and it makes the students very unhappy. So I can kinda see that even in the discussions that we have in my classes, we talk about just some of the things that students have to deal with because sometimes they just wanna vent, but I won’t say that race relations have gotten better because they haven’t, but they haven’t gotten any worse either, it’s just that’s just the way it is at a White institution.

	R:	Definitely. Do you have any ideas off the top of your head of what administration can do to ease tensions? I know it’s been as you said, the same since you’ve been here, but any ideas that come?

	A:	Well I think there’s a professor who no longer works here who was doing some really important work at the counseling center. Her name was Brandi Pritchett Johnson and she left and she went to Michigan, but there was a group called “The Invincible Black Women’s Group” and it was just a support system just for African American women to just talk and to support each other. So I think if UF could have more programs like that, and not just for Black students, but just for students in general to help them cope with some of the stresses they’re under. I think UF has the counseling and wellness center, but sometimes minority students just don’t feel comfortable going in there. I don’t know why, but for whatever reason they just don’t. So if they could just give them more opportunities where they can get together with other students who are from similar backgrounds, then I think that’s something that would help.

	R:	And you said the group was called “Indivisible Black Women?”





	A:	Invincible Black Women’s group, and then she also had another one for first generation students, I’m not sure what the name of it was, but it was sort of like a support system so that students could sort of help preserve each other’s mental health.

	R:	And that was here at the university?



	A:	Yeah, that was here. It was at the counseling and wellness center. R:	And what year was that?

	A:	It was for quite a few years, she was here for about five years. I think she had left maybe last year. So it was probably within the last six or seven years it was here.

	R:	Wow. Okay. So now that you’re leaving, if this is too personal you don’t have to answer it, but do you feel that it’s kinda time to move on, like anything that could have motivated this, and also what are your plans after?

	A:	Well my plans are to continue to work here, I was just promoted to full professor, so I’m not leaving the institution.

	R:	Oh okay great.



	A:	And I’ll still be working in African American Studies and with the new director, and also working with political science, so I’ll still be doing the same things that I’ve always done, it’s just that after a while in administration it’s just so much work that it really starts to just wear you down after a while, and I think after a while there just is a need for a new person to come in with fresh ideas. So I think I brought stability to the program and getting the major, and our major’s doing well, I think the program’s doing well, but I just I’m looking forward to someone else coming in and just working with us to try to continue the progress.





	R:	Definitely, okay. And would this be a similar thing, the new director would be somebody already here, or would there be a search process?

	A:	Yeah, there already is a search process, I think they’re probably gonna place the ad this week. So there’ll be a search, and if anybody who works here wants to apply they’re welcome to, but I don’t know if anyone here who’s qualified to do this will want to, but there’s gonna be an external search, so yeah.

	R:	Alright. So is there anything that I didn’t touch upon that you would like to talk about, that you think would be important, just anything at all that I missed?

	A:	I think one of the things that I forgot to mention when you asked what can UF do, I think that people need to understand the importance of minority faculty, and I don’t think that UF really fully understands that, I mean you have a lot of people who will say that they promote diversity, they want a diverse faculty, but when they have opportunities to bring in more people of color, many times they don’t do it, and a lot of times they come up with the excuse of “Well, we just don’t have the money.” But I think that when you have qualified minority scholars who wanna come to UF, you should try to find the money to make it possible for them to come, and that’s one of the things that I’ve kinda been disappointed with, is I’ve seen situations in which even here in African American Studies, we’ve had really talented people applying for our positions, and we could’ve hired like maybe two or three people rather than one for one position, but then we were told “Well we just don’t have the money.” So that’s kinda the thing, I mean if you say that you support, then go ahead and do it and stop saying it if you know that





you’re not gonna have the money to hire people when you find qualified people who wanna come here.

	R:	Definitely. And that actually makes me think of another question. So recently with the hiring of the Chief Diversity Officer, I just wanna see your opinion on the whole dynamic of that.

	A:	Okay.



	R:	Yeah, because from my perspective, it seems like, you know, kind of putting the issues of diversity on one person when it’s a broader issue than that. So, yeah.

	A:	Yeah, I mean I think it’s a good thing that they’ve hired a diversity officer. The question is are you gonna give the person the resources that he needs to do his job effectively? And then also like you said, are you going to expect this one person to address diversity issues? And then the other departments don’t because over the years I’ve seen not only here but at other universities as well, minority scholars have gone up for tenure, and they have had really strong records, but they’ve been told that they didn’t publish in the right places, and in many cases it’s because of the kind of research that they do, and some of the top journals in their fields don’t really publish that type of research, and so in many cases, these are people who are denied tenure. So I mean that to me shows if you say that you’re committed to diversity, you have to do more than just hire a Chief Diversity Officer. You have to address those issues as well, when someone goes up for promotion in a White department, and you know that these people aren’t going to support that person, you have to step in and the administration





needs to support them. Because if not, that person is going to get frustrated and leave and that’s why we’ve lost so many minority faculty over the years.

	R:	I hear you. Alright, do you have any questions? [Laughter]

	R:	Okay, alright.



	A:	Alright.



	R:	That’s it.



	A:	Alright, thank you.



	R:	Thank you so much— A:	Your arms must be tired.

	R:	Yeah, thank you so much for your time Dr. Austin.









[End of interview]



Transcribed by:

Megan Sam

July 12, 2019

Audit-edited by:

Sandra Romero

July 22, 2019

Final edited by:

Sandra Romero

May 19, 2020