AAHP 412; Castell and Mitchell; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 412 Hattie Castell and Olga Mitchell African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by A.J. Donaldson and Justin Hosbey on May 26, 2016 1 hour, 12 minutes | 35 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 412

Interviewee: Hattie Castell and Olga Mitchell Interviewer: A.J. Donaldson and Justin Hosbey Date: May 26, 2016



	D:	Okay, it’s AJ Donaldson—A-J-D-O-N-A-L-D-S-O-N—University of Florida, representing the SPOHP and AAHP organization. And I’m interviewing.

	O:	My name is Justin Hosbey, also here from AAHP, and today is May 26, 2016.



And today we’re interviewing—



	M:	Olga Mitchell. I live here now in Orlando, Florida, originally born in New York, New York.

	D:	And we’re also joined by—



	C:	Hattie Castell. I was born in Wakulla County, Florida. That’s in North Florida, 18 miles south of Tallahassee. And I migrated to Eatonville, Florida and I came here in 1962.

	D:	All right, do you mind spelling your name out for us?



	C:	My name is spelled Hattie—H-A-T-T-I-E—middle initial M—Castell—C-A-S-T-E- L-L.

	D:	Okay. Well, where we left off. We were talking about how you were here and your family came from the North and—was it New York?

	M:	New York—



	D:	New York, right?



	M:	Uh-huh. It’s not my family, I came down—



	D:	You came down after you retired from New York— M:	Right, right—





D:  Okay, I remember that, just refreshing my memory. And, let’s dive right into this work that you did with Eatonville with the book. What that is, the title of it, when you wrote it, and when you started researching it in?

	M:	Well, I started researching it in 1996, I think it was. As I moved down here, I saw an article in the Orlando Sentinel. It said something about a Joseph Clark. I just knew, since that was the name my grandmother always mentioned was my grandfather. I said, that’s unusual. I knew he came from Florida, but I didn’t know anything more about him. I’m the one in the family that has all the birth certificates, the death certificates, and everything. So I went into the [inaudible 2:27] and got out my grandmother’s death certificate. And on her death certificate, it showed Joseph E Clark as her father and Julia Hightower as the mother. So I said, “Oh my God, that’s him.” And that’s how I realized, you know. So from there, I wanted to see this town of Eatonville. Cause she used to tell me a story, oh your grandfather was a big man. I think he was just big. [Laughter] I never thought beyond the fact that he was just a big man. I knew nothing else about him except for grandma saying these things. I knew nothing else about him. So then I started digging.

	D:	And when you were digging, let’s start with Joseph Clark. Just give people a background of who Joseph Clark is.

	M:	My research wounded up giving an overall. I found and located him where he was in slavery. He was born in slavery in [Pause in Conversation] He was born in Covington, Georgia on the plantation of Ben and Clark. And I picked up because slaves did not have names in those days. But I was able to pick it up by their





ages. They were just shown by ages on the census sheet. And on that particular census sheet, I was able to pick out the approximate age of his father and his mother and I could pick out the family from that particular census sheet. He was, at the time, while they were on the plantation in slavery, he was the youngest.

And his sister pretty much raised him to a point, she was only about two years older than him cause the mother and father had to be out. So he became very close to his sister because she might have been five years old taking care of him. And the reason I mention that is because consequently when he had children— three children—they all had the name starting with an M. Maddie, Maude, and you know because it tied in, I felt, with the fact that the sister was so close to him and Mary. Then William, his father, was a trusted slave on that plantation.

	D:	Joseph’s father, William?



	M:	His father William. So, therefore he would go into town—the trusted slaves would go into town—and give out the always. And obviously he listened. He listened to what was going on. So, through listening, he understood that there was a place in Tennessee that would give free training, free lessons, free schooling.

Northern Tennessee was different from Southern Tennessee and therefore when they were released from slavery, you’d see they took that route 75 straight up.

And I found them in Tennessee also by the census. Found the whole family line up there. Now, this I found somewhat amusing to the point. They’re lined up, but then she had the last brother was born there in Tennessee. And he was the first child born in upside of slavery. So therefore they were so proud of it that they named him William Jr. But when I pick him up on the census, again, and by the





time William Jr. got into Georgia and into Eatonville in Florida, he had changed, he had dropped the Jr. and the William and he became the name you know him as now.

D:   Joseph Clark?



	M:	No not Joseph. Joseph is the older brother… Oh gosh, I can’t think of his name now. But it’s Hubert Alexander’s grandfather.

D:   Okay.



	M:	But he dropped that name, he didn’t want to be called Junior anymore [inaudible 7:31] Oh but see then, I traced him by age. Cause by age, I could tell that that was the brother. That was the same brother, there couldn’t have been two brothers born at the same time, unless they were twins. So therefore that had to be the same one age wise when he was in Eatonville. That’s the interesting thing about census. The things that they show on the census was loads of information on the census. So that way I traced him. Then he left the—the Ku Klux Klan started up in Tennessee.

	D:	Pulaski?



	M:	Pulaski. And it was only about 50 miles from where they were. So they felt the time had come to move forth and get out of that atmosphere. They moved then into Georgia.

	D:	Covington.



	M:	Not into Covington. Covington was the plantation. They went into Atlanta. And there they started—cause they were free now.

	D:	Is that DeKalb County? Atlanta?





	M:	I don’t know the county. O:	You said what county? D:	DeKalb.

	O:	DeKalb? That’s Decatur.



	D:	That’s Decatur? Okay. I’m sorry, go ahead.



	M:	Cause I have a lot of family there still today. But when they moved at the beginning of 1860s—no it could be the [18]60s. War was over in the 60s. So it had to be 1870s. In the beginning of 1870s, Mary died, the mother died. I mean they had bad luck there. But at that time, those people, they got odd jobs. They got whatever they could. And they also learned by anybody because they didn’t have formal schools. But they learned by anybody who knew something. If I knew a particular thing, I charge you a certain amount of money and I would train you on that if you came to my house on Saturday or something, that’s what I’d train you on and such. And of course when he and his sister Mary was in Tennessee, that is when he did get training. They did have those free schools and he and Mary—that’s something else that bugged me. Where was he getting this training from? And it was in Tennessee that he did get training. He and Mary went to school there. So then they moved through, as I said, into Georgia. And in Georgia, that’s where they got the odd jobs, kept trying to reestablish themselves. Now when you get to the end of the Georgia line, right here that’s lined with Florida, that’s where his wife who was the full-blooded Indian, there’s a lot of them in there. And that’s where on the census it showed. I picked her up and the children were in different Hightower houses. That means she was sick





and the children was distributed in different houses. Then he was in Florida, looking for a job. So he got into Florida in 1880. And then when he came into Florida in 1880, that’s when he got into… he was hired by Captain Eaton. He formally worked for the United States—he came out of the navy, I think. A retired navy officer. But he worked in the Orange Grove of Maitland. Now while he was working, he’s like his father. He’s always absorbing. Absorbing and listening. And Eaton at that time, some very rich Northern men would come down. That was their summer, they’d come down for the summer. Well they found, they must have found someone like Joe Clark. He would have been in his 20, 21, something like that. They couldn’t understand, this Black man with an education. He had more education, than you know, the average—cause we were 95 percent illiterate in the 1890s. So I mean this was something. So they found him interesting. But Joe Clark had a dream. He dreamt he wanted to have some place where he wasn’t getting off the sidewalks because there was a White person walking by. He wanted their own town to have something that was just theirs. So he just talked to them about it. They in turn, they were very comfortable with him. And when he was around them, he was listening and absorbing. Now the times he was in Maitland he managed to get a job as marshal. He worked as a marshal in Maitland. And Maitland as of July of this year, 2016, he’s being honored in an exhibit in Maitland. A big exhibit that they’re honoring their town fathers. And his picture is being specially painted, and I’ve seen it the picture half done. And it’s all going to be on exhibit. I don’t know the date in April—I mean in July. In July. Now in Maitland, they had decided enough people were going to be





coming that it’s time for Maitland to incorporate. So therefore, the law says you have to have a certain number of people to sign your papers and all this. So this whole time Joe Clark is listening to everything they’re saying, the importance of incorporating, why they want to incorporate, all of this he’s absorbing from them. Then in order for Maitland to get incorporated, they needed the signatures. And he had the honor, he signed on.

	D:	One of the incorporators.



	M:	He’s one of the incorporators. He signed the incorporated papers. And then you look farther down and there’s a Henry Clark signed also. Henry is his older brother. So, I was thinking that Henry was down in here Eatonville for a while.

But then he slid off the radar, I didn’t see Henry anymore. But the younger one stayed down. Then, a little problem started appearing in Maitland. The Blacks had gotten in around Lake Lily which is the bottom of the hill. Then the upper part of the hill was being developed by these Whites with the big time homes and all this. Now the Blacks were down there with their shacks and washing clothes in the lake and all this. This wasn’t conducive to what was happening up there. So therefore to me they were very clever. They said, “What’s this dream that he keeps talking about.” So they offered him some land. Joe said I’ll take it. [Laughter] So what they did, which there’s still always maneuvering. The United States Army had that land—had all this land —and it was being given back cause the army was pulling out of it. And Eaton bought loads of land. So he in turn got all this—

	D:	Captain Eaton?





	M:	Captain Eaton. Captain Eaton. D:	He bought loads of land, okay.

	M:	Captain Eaton bought loads of land. And then Captain Eaton he in turn sold land to various White people cause that was part of it. But someplace along the line he arranged for Joe Clark to get this expanse of land. Joe Clark did not have money to just give it out like that so he had to pay him off. So therefore, what he did, this piece of land that he sold to this particular White person it was with the understanding that Joe Clark is paying on this piece of land. And this is what will be his as he pays it off. Because the White people in the South did not want Black people to get any lot of land because they were afraid that they were going to rebel against them if they all got together. And so they were afraid. Remember you’re dealing with ignorance at the time. So therefore, when it finally got so that he did have—they figured in 1871—he was able to go into that land and he cut it up in parcels. Joe Clark did. And he sold it for $5, $10—I mean those prices were fantastic. But he knew enough to know that when you could put a store, he had to hire. And he knew enough to know that if you’re buying on credit, you’re going to pay him off. So he ran that setup and then of course he had his own orange groves and all that. And then I did find the deed where he got it paid off.

	D:	By breaking it up and selling them in parcels.



	M:	Right. He broke it up and sold it in parcels. But Eaton arranged for this guy to, he was able to pay off some of—all that land belonged to Joe Clark so then he in turn sold it and arranged that. But the thing is in that deed, which is little known but if you see that original deed where they released that land to Joe Clark, they





inserted a little paragraph there, and in that paragraph, you cannot put houses of ill reprove in certain places—Eatonville was restricted that way so that they couldn’t bring in a lot of things into the town. That’s why you have your bars and things in Eatonville right on the outskirts. But you notice the churches are in here but the bars are not lined up in Eatonville. It’s because of that thing that’s in the original deed that was released to Joe Clark.

	D:	So there’s no dance houses and partying going on?



	M:	Because what had happened and what has happened cause we’re down now to three Black towns and these towns they were all destroyed one after the other because they were not incorporated. And in other places where they wanted to throw this type of behavior out of their town, they spilled into there. And somehow they loved being near a church or a school or this—and they put anything there so what happens to the good people in those towns?

	O:	The vice.



	M:	The vice. So the good people in those towns got out. And as they got out, it was just a matter of time before the whole thing disappeared. So now Eatonville stands very strong because he did get it incorporated from what he had heard in Maitland. So he said, “If Maitland can incorporate, why can’t Eatonville incorporate.” So by 1887, he had imitated Maitland and had got Eatonville. And I’ll tell you, it was such a troubled time at that time with him getting that incorporation that the women were all gathered in one person’s house cause they were so afraid for their men because they had threatened them, everything. That they were going to lose their jobs and everything if they signed this





incorporation paper. And sure enough, 29 of them was supposed to sign. Two didn’t show up. So that’s some pretty good odds. Only two got intimidated. But they signed. And because they signed, that is what has made Eatonville able to be here today. And then of course, there’s another thing. When you have that incorporation papers, you can get people to come in and fix the road. Because if you don’t and it’s not incorporated, if they’re fixing your street and somebody gets injured, they can sue you. They can sue every house in the place. Plus the people don’t mind working for you if all they have to do is find city hall. But they don’t want to have to get their money from everybody in the place. So everything was set up through those incorporation papers to keep a town like Eatonville going. And he learned it from being in Maitland. And then of course everything just went on and went on. But something unusual happened just recently when this [inaudible 21:55] Zeta Sorority had their first annual something here. They had me an honoree and they sent this lovely statue to me. Mrs. Franklin—I think you’ve heard from her, Louise Franklin—and she mailed it to me and I was happy with it. Then I took the box and I was getting ready to put the box away and they tell you to flatten it and all that. So I’m flattening the box and I look and all of a sudden it was made in Covington.

	O:	Covington.



	D:	Covington.



	O:	Covington, Georgia.



	M:	Oh my God. I couldn’t believe it. So I call Louise Franklin and I said, did you know that, did you know that? And she said, it’s just a box. Of all the boxes I’ve





got but I thought that was fantastic. I kept that box. I couldn’t believe it. Covington, Georgia. And it had my thing in there. So that I found that interesting that was something very recent.

	D:	That was amazing.



	M:	That was amazing. It was just weird. Weird, weird, weird. But it was from that, and that’s what makes the incorporation in Eatonville stand today. Everything is controlled because of that incorporation.

	O:	I wanted to ask you, Mrs. Olga, about the other Black towns. You said that they are four remaining—

	M:	No three, it’s three altogether including Eatonville. And one I know is Brooklyn—I don’t exactly know where Brooklyn is. But one is named Brooklyn. But it was two others. But I didn’t remember exactly their names. Because in research, I had their names but I can’t keep it all. I had them in my head. But they’re on their way down. I saw pictures of the Brooklyn one and you can see it where the fences are down. And then you see a bar thriving right there in the middle of everything. The bars don’t care, you know. They couldn’t care less about things. And so it’s that kind of junk that has brought them all down. But here in Eatonville, because of that coming out of that original deed, somebody inserted that into that original deed. That’s why you don’t see any bars sitting here on the front streets here.

That’s what has saved Eatonville.



	O:	Okay. And I guess my question is how has it affected the economy in a way.



	Like, do bars usually argue we can bring more money here and— M:	Oh they do—





	O:	And you guys continue to say, we’ll be fine without the money. How does it work? M:	No, no, no, it’s not that. Cause I don’t live in Eatonville, and never have. And so I think the scenario goes like just get a license—it’s always someone a little

crooked someplace unfortunately. And if you pay off the right one, you get what you want. You know what I mean? Unless the right one is stopped by the law. You know unless the wrong one is stopped by the law.

	O:	I’m just curious to know based on the economy and how Eatonville attracted industry, what was some of the ways industry was made here and what were the things in this time—

	C:	Well they haven’t attracted the industry that it should have— O:	Well during this period, like early on.

	C:	Yeah early on.



	D:	What was it that drew people to Eatonville?



	M:	Well for one thing, this really was a thriving town. I mean with the Boys Scouts, Girl Scouts. As a matter of fact, I do have an article that was written in the Times at the time in 19 something about this thriving Black town that’s run as well as any other town. And they had everything here. They even brought the school.

They got their school going. I mean so many things they got going here, cause that school is beautiful. And it was a school where children could go and stay overnight initially.

	O:	Was that Haverford school?



	M:	The Hungerford School. Children could go and stay overnight and Dr.



Hungerford’s parents gave—and incidentally Dr. Hungerford was—caught the





yellow fever as he was taking care of a Black man here in Eatonville. And therefore, they named the school in his honor. And his parents came here and gave all that campus of Hungerford to the town. So I mean that was a big—and then the town fathers, including Joe Clark of course, contacted the great educator we had at that time. [Side Conversation] But he sent one of his men down here as the principal, the first principal of Hungerford School.

	O:	Are you talking about a national figure we had? An educator? M:	Yeah, a national figure.

	O:	Booker T?



	M:	No, it wasn’t Booker T but it was a very national figure that had schools up north. But he said even his wife came down here and she had a speech. It’s in my book I show—I think it was Booker T. It might have been Booker T because I seem to remember she’s speaking. So that was a start and remember there was a lot of pride. And you see that a picture of that Hungerford campus early on. It’s beautiful. What pride, I mean to be able to go there. This was some place they could go that they didn’t have to step aside and say, “Yes ma’am, no ma’am.” This was where they could stand straight, and this is where the one thing where the town and Zora had a little thing because Zora was writing, she was a fantastic writer. But she was writing with what sells. And they didn’t want to hear about people who’s doing even better than them. [Laughter] I mean that doesn’t sell. I mean even to today, if you want to sell, you have to write what sells, you know? So, no point writing what people don’t want to hear. But basically, the town itself—well look, we have a post office. And Joseph Clark was the very first





postal office man. I got that information from the United States archives in Washington. And I got his original—that’s in the book. Did y’all see the book?

	D:	Yes, I did, I did.



	M:	So on page 38, I think, that is from the archives themselves. So therefore, now, it was in 1918, or 1914, that they stopped all the postal things going. And I think this is too very significant is that I guess it was the warring that stopped it or whatever. And all Eatonville’s mail came out of Maitland. But, then in about the [19]50s, a Catherine Alexander, who was Joseph Clark’s niece, reopened it. I think that’s an all in the family thing! So I think that was fantastic. So then she reopened it. So I think that was very significant. But it was a well-run—and it is— you look at it today—I mean the efforts of everybody, even this house—it’s giving back that little bit of “I can remember this, I can remember that.” Sometimes so many people, they talk so much and one would say, “How do you ever learn?” [Laughter] So I often think that how much they learn if their mouths were closed and their ears were open, you know? So I often think about that.

	D:	I wanted to really change gears a little bit and ask Hattie a couple questions, if you don’t mind?

	C:	Okay.



	D:	Had you ever heard of a Joseph Clark before you got here? C:	No. I hadn’t ever heard of Eatonville.

	D:	You hadn’t even heard of Eatonville. Okay, when you got here, how much about Eatonville did you start to really learn, and what is it coming down here from— where did you come from?





	C:	I came from Wakulla County in North Florida. I met my husband in A&M so he graduated so I followed him then—

	O:	Florida A&M?



	C:	Yeah. So we lived in Orlando for a while and then we moved to Maitland. And then property became available here in Eatonville and [inaudible 32:13] they were building new houses over there. So we went over and picked out a lot and that’s where we’ve been since [19]62.

	D:	Okay give me a geographic location of Maitland- M:	It’s attached-

	D:	It’s attached to Eatonville. Is it North, South- M:	Well if you ever been to Mrs. Franklin’s house? D:	No I haven’t.

	M:	When you see the large church right there in the sorta middle of town? You make a right turn, and you go to Mrs. Franklin’s house. But you go down that road, you go down about two blocks-

	C:	That’s down Boone street I think. M:	Then you’re in Maitland.

	D:	Then you’re in Maitland. Oh so it’s not even just right here. It’s connected, okay. Would you say that this was its own—Eatonville is like a town by itself inside of its own incubator, its own place, it’s its own destination?

	M:	Oh yes. It has friends. [Laughter] No because it basically has a mayor and everything. It’s all set up.





C:  We depend on Maitland for a few things. Yeah I know our fire department it come from Maitland. And our ambulance, when we call it, it’s down on Keller Road-

	M:	Which is just fantastic, the fire department.



	C:	So we depend on Maitland for a lot of help. So we get along well. M:	Especially Maitland. They’re very close to Eatonville in that respect. D:	And where do you currently live now?

	M:	Oh I live in Orlando. D:	Is that, how far—

	M:	Oh from here, you go North from here— C:	You came in on John Hill—

	M:	I go South from here.



	D:	We came in on John Hill



	O:	You go South to get to Orlando.



M:  Yeah South from here. Cause I’m about exit 79, so you know where you got off. So then you just make a turn there and you come on over—I live in an area they call Hunter’s Creek. It’s nice. It’s very nice.

D:   I’ma see if Justin has any more questions?



	O:	I wanted to ask about your experience first coming to Eatonville and how did it make you feel coming back here and kind of retracing back your history? And also I want to ask the same question to Ms. Hattie about coming here, what was it like, and then once you kind of learned about the history of Eatonville, what did you think?





	M:	Well it was a really exciting thing for me. Everything was [inaudible 35:16]. I just felt that so much I wanted to see, wanted to do, wanted to ask, wanted to you I just, I was just—it’s hard to even explain it. And I’m so glad I met Louise Franklin because she is really the historian. She has kept things from—oh my God the longest. And so when I talk to her, she really opened up things to me. But I was a little shocked that I wasn’t able to get more—it should be like a museum here.

You shouldn’t have to dig and happen to know somebody to know Eatonville’s history. I feel that not enough emphasis has been placed on the founding fathers because they had—it should be a museum, there’s no doubt. But I do feel this younger group with their college degrees coming back and everything, that they themselves will be more. Cause up to the war times everybody was aware of Joe Clark and their history and everything. And it seems after the war things got so confusing that you would almost ask, “Who is Joe Clark?” I mean he’s the father of the town. I mean that should be a no brainer. And instead, she just said, she didn’t even know who Joe Clark was. That era, the group that was in charge in that era dismissed our history. They let it drop. And they tried to reinvent it to suit their own purposes for whatever reason. But it was right—because, remember, a lot of the war upset a lot of things. And the young men, just like those young ones on the farm, would say once they left, they didn’t come back you know? So I mean, not necessarily killed, but they just found, “Hey I like it better here, I like it better there—”

	O:	More opportunities, they just moved on—





	M:	Yeah, they just weren’t going back to little Eatonville, you know? So it became like a so anybody could grab it. Cause now the only ones left were the older ones who was just didn’t want to be bothered with anything at this stage. The younger ones didn’t know. And then was a void there. So their people took opportunities. And I feel from what my research shows that the things that went on after the war had to get back on track—the train had to get back on track. And I think it’s coming back on track.

	C:	Yeah I have no regrets from moving into Eatonville. It was real exciting because we had two clubs here. Remember the Club Eaton?

	M:	No I don’t know, I don’t know. C:	Oh my—

	O:	Oh yeah I heard about that—



	C:	Yeah and we had Rainbow down the street. D:	Club Eaton and Club Rainbow?

	C:	Yes.



	D:	Okay okay, follow the Rainbow.



	C:	And then I had the churches—the Methodist and the Baptist. And they say you always join the biggest church—the biggest Baptist. So I joined Macedonia. And come to find out, it’s part of what Dorothy would write about in her book The Methodist Church at Macedonia.

	D:	Okay, okay. And you said you read all 14 books? C:	Oh yeah.

	D:	What’s your favorite book by Zora Neale Hurston?





	C:	The Stripes on the Road. You read that one first.



	M:	Yeah I read them all also. I particularly like My People [inaudible 39:18]. It appeals to—

	C:	It appeals to the neighbors’ entity. I think one man killed another man with the jawbone of a mule that he found in the gold. They didn’t have jails back then, but they did take them to the edge of town and he couldn’t come back. That was murder. I read that in her book. I caught up on a lot reading that book.

	M:		But see the only thing there again, that became a little mixture. Because people assumed what they read in her—

	D:	Her fiction—



	M:	Was Eatonville. That was not Eatonville. She took her guidance from it, which every good author does. Every good author has something and they go from there. There was no harm in that. She was absolutely a great writer. But it was not Eatonville’s history. It was taken and embossed on. For people now, as a matter of fact, they think of it as Eatonville’s history books. And that another reason why I wanted to get my book out.

	C:	Yeah I heard about how it’s different from what you found out in the archives how it came about.

	M:	Right, right. That’s what happened. C:	But the word of mouth—

	M:	Oh yeah the word of mouth got it changed around. O:	That’s the folklore.





	M:	Yeah that’s right. And they said she never once said she was historian. She never once said that. She was a, you know—

	O:	An anthropologist.



	M:	That’s it! She was just a great writer with a great imagination, but she took—they feel that in one of her books that she was writing about Joe Clark’s funeral.

	C:	Stole from.



	M:	Yeah, right, right, right. That they stole from. She put it in her book. So I mean she would just right. But that’s not—but everybody sees—

	D:	She just takes pieces—



	M:	She took pieces and she added to them and so forth. But so many people, “Oh, I know all about Eatonville, I read—” It’s not so! That’s why it should be the history.

	D:	Could you just spell out the name of your book again before—cause I mean plenty of people are going to listen to this and they’re gonna wanna really know. And if you could just [side conversation]

	O:	You said Eatonville was a beautiful town?



	C:	Yeah, exciting because of the clubs. Yeah. I enjoyed it. And I was at a young age then when I came here. I think I was about 30 years old.

	M:	Now both those clubs, they were right at the edge of town.



	C:	Yes, yes. Now Club Eaton is one block away here. And then all the big bands came to town, that’s where they went.

	M:	One block away.



	C:	From Club Eaton. It’s there on the corner.



	O:	It’s still there right? Club Eaton is still there isn’t it?





	C:	It’s for sale if you want to buy it.



	M:	What’s amazing is it’s the only one that I know that—I didn’t realize it was one in here.

	C:	Maitland? It’s closed. M:	Oh, oh, oh.

	C:	It’s for sale.



	D:	[Side conversation]



	M:	Thank you. It was The Life and Times of Joseph E. Clark: From Slavery to Town Father (Eatonville, Florida). And it can be purchased on Amazon. The DVD is also by the same title, but it’s a DVD. And the DVD goes more into the Civil War and everything involved with it. But it’s a little bit more, but I talked it through because there’s some people that don’t want to sit down and read. [Laughter]

D:  I was reading something in here once before, and what I would like to do is ask, if you don’t mind Hattie, to read this first paragraph. And I want you to respond to it if you don’t mind. Just read that for us out loud.

	C:	Ever since their arrival in Tennessee in 1865, William Clark’s children, Joseph and Mary, attended school. Not only was it unusual for Blacks to have an education, but it was extremely unusual for a child—for a girl child to attend school. William Clark wanted all of his children to have an education, and believed that education was your key to respectability and a chance to better your life. Son Joseph now 11 years old, attending school, supplemented the family income by working as a drayman. Unfortunately, the educational





opportunity came too late to be of use to the older brother, Henry, who was now married and supporting a family.

	D:	So what I want to do is I just want to, before we depart, dig into that whole education piece. Cause it seems like that seems to be—that was really important to a lot of the things that really describes and reinforces Eatonville.

	M:	That’s it exactly. Absolutely.



	O:	And that’s what I gathered from my quick read of the book. M:	Yes he was working as a drayman. D-R-A-Y-M-A-N.

	O:	And what’s that?



	M:	It’s the same as we consider our moving men. If you wanted to move someplace except they had wagons that sides came down on either side. And if you wanted to move your furniture and all that that was their job. They did go with their wagon and they take things from one place to the other. And they were called draymen. He was only 10—11 years old when he was working—

	D:	Joseph was?



	M:	Joseph was. Joseph Clark was working like that. And it was unusual for them to have the women—were never taught. I guess they figured if they were dumb they could really could handle them. [Laughter]

	C:	I know my mother went to third grade—and my father went to third grade, my mother went to sixth grade. Now my church educated me. We had the one room school behind it. I think I was in the fourth or fifth grade before the county took over. My people in my community educated us.

	M:	Isn’t that something?





	O:	And that was in Wakulla County? C:	Uh-huh

	M:	That’s fantastic. D:	It is. That is.

	C:	And everybody that lived there had to go to college. You might not finish, but you had to go. I tell the children a lot of the time when I left to go, my daddy gave me 50 cents. I had to go to town, get a job, and work and make my tuition. I did. It was $36 a semester. That was in 1951.

	M:	That was fantastic in [19]51.



	D:	Well, can you tell us about your life history a bit and growing up in Wakulla County? What was it like? What was your childhood like?

	C:	Fun. Me and my cousin always talk about, we really didn’t know we were poor until we got old. And I am the descendant of twin slaves. My daddy’s people were slaves, my mother people were not. I do have a piece of property from the 40 acres and a mule was given to my people. I had 1.9 acres, it [inaudible 47:22]. In my name, never been sold.

	M:	Oh, God bless you.



	O:	And that’s in Wakulla County? C:	Wakulla County. Yes.

	O:	And you say you were educated by the church— C:	In the beginning.

	O:	Which church did you go to out there?





	C:	Thessalonia Missionary Baptist Church in a little community called Hyde Park, Florida. My daddy was a commercial fisherman on a river near the Gulf in Wakulla Beach.

	O:	What was it like growing up on the beach? Was that?



	C:	Fun, it wasn’t a fancy beach like it is now. But we could walk down there, you know and did have shoes most of the time, and play. And then we could walk back home. We were close enough that we wouldn’t have to—we could walk, but far enough we wouldn’t have to evacuate if the storms or the hurricanes come.

There was five Whites that lived on the beach, and so they had to move when a storm was coming. We didn’t have a radio, so we wouldn’t know when it was coming. We just noticed the wind was picking up. I had a very good life. We didn’t have much money, but we—

	M:	Had each other. And love. I’ll tell ya—money doesn’t automatically bring the love.



That was something. That was in 1951.



	C:	We didn’t know we were poor, but somebody always has a little money or a little food. Something, and then we shared a lot and bartered a lot. You have this, I have this.

	O:	So were there lots of Blacks in that— C:	All Black community.

	O:	Okay, it was an all-Black community, okay.



	C:	Now the Whites lived on the outskirts. They didn’t want to live around near other—they worked for them, but they didn’t live in the community with us. They’d go to our church. You probably wouldn’t know anything about that now. There





some living in that community now, but they don’t go to that church. They’d buy another property. But my cousins sold their property next to mine. They inherited some of the 40 acres and mule.

	D:	And they sold it.



	C:	Whites live over there now.



	O:	So coming from that community and being so close to Florida A&M, is that one of the reasons why you kind of all were taught to go to college because of—from being so close to Florida A&M?

	C:	No because the old people that lived there, they weren’t allowed to get education. They couldn’t go to school. And we went to school because one man felt a need for a school, and he worked hard to get a school out there. A lot of times we walk to that school and the Whites were being educated, but we weren’t. And I had seen the time when we were walking to school and a 36 passenger bus would pass us. But we couldn’t ride on it. But one student.

	M:	That’s amazing.



	O:	And what was the man’s name that started the school for you all? C:	Edith … his father. He was a Hargrett.

	O:	And can you spell that for me? Can you spell that? You said he was a— D:	Hargrett

	C:	Hargett. He saw a need for a school out there. D:	Is that H-A-R-

	C:	H-A-R-G-R-E-T-T.



	O:	Okay, because if we could look online and try to find some records of—





	C:	Look up Amos Hargrett. I do have a little something—we didn’t keep much records back then. Whatever people told us, that’s what we had to go by.

	O:	So tell me a little bit about Club Eaton. We got some stories about Club Eaton last time, but what was Club Eaton like?

	C:	It was a lot of fun. When I first came here, I don’t remember the sheriff, the police that we had out here. But he sat at the door—you couldn’t come in unless you come by him. I think he was checking for guns, but nobody had a gun at those times—you didn’t have to worry about no guns. But I think you had to worry about knives. But, it was a fun place to go.

	O:	What kind of music? Anybody that you remember coming through?



	C:	Yeah, I think I saw one popular…I think I saw James Brown. I think B.B. King, I saw B.B. King, yeah I saw him in Tallahassee. Now the Rainbow, it was a different club.

	O:	Now what was Rainbow like? What was the difference between Club—



	C:	[inaudible 53:01] And they were closed. I think they made them—you had to close certain times so the place could be cleaned and opened up again.

	D:	How many days a week? Every night? Or closed on a Sunday?



	C:	I think they made them start closing on Sunday. But Friday and Saturday night, everybody would be there. And this one would close early and everybody would go down there.

	D:	Ah okay, so they just partied all night? If they could.



	C:	Ah yeah, everybody came. From miles away Sanford, Eckland County, came from [inaudible 53:41].





	M:	I was a little afraid to go out. I always come to Club Eaton. I didn’t go to



Rainbow.



	O:	Why were you afraid of Club Rainbow? M:	[Laughter] Just the talk of the town.

	D:	Just the rumors.



	M:	Yes.



	D:	I understand.



	O:	What were they saying, like what were the—Was it like a place of ill-repute? A place of ill-repute?

	M:	No girls, just a lot of drinking. Really like a juke joint. You know what those are.



And you go in there to have fun, drink and get up and dance all night. Go back to your table, and sit down and drink some more. So it was a fun place.

	D:	Sounds like a scene out of The Color Purple. The dancing juke joint with uh—I understand, all right.

	M:	That’s it.



	O:	So did you raise your family here in Eatonville? C:	Yeah.

	O:	You did, okay, okay.



	C:	That place there was torn down when they got old enough to go out and party. Club Eaton has closed and Rainbow. They can walk by it but they never had an interest in it. Cause integration had started.

	M:	Oh yeah, there was other places to go, they weren’t forced to go there. C:	So those places finally faded away and they can go other places.





	M:	So they saw Rainbow, but they never had interest in it. D:	Now did you sing at all? In the church or anywhere?

	C:	I was an usher.



	M:	I didn’t do too much, I had narcolepsy so you can’t depend on me [Laughter]. I had to sleep.

	D:	So you didn’t sing at all? Because we’d like to hear a few hymnals—



	M:	I can sing now. I was a kindergarten teach, I can sing to children now. We sing



	Mary Had a Little Lamb [Laughter]. [Side Conversation] D:	Do you want to hum a tune for us? Wanna sing a little bit? M:	You’re not recording this are you?

	D:	Oh yeah it’s recording. It’s just going to be something that if you want to leave us with some kind of happiness and, you know, jovial excitement.

	C:	I love to sing. And I used to teach my children a lot of things by singing. I was telling a girl the other day, some of the younger teacher asked me, “How would you teach a child to skip?” And I say, “Oh.” I had to think of an activity that I could do. So, have you ever heard of the game Little Liza Jane?

	M:	No.



	D:	No, teach me that. How it go?



	C:	Now you make a circle, everybody sit down. And even if you’re shy, this’ll bring a little child out. And so we would sit down in a circle, we would sing Little Liza Jane. And it goes like this, [Singing] “This young man ain’t got no wife Little Liza Jane. Can’t get a wife to save his life, Little Liza Jane.” Now if you have the little pick one, he’s the one that’s going to skip around and he’s got to pick his favorite





girl or guy. Little Liza Jane—now he might do the gallop. And then we’ll say, “Oh we’ll skip him today.” And he’ll gallop on out of there. Usually one child in the group can’t skip. And we sing the song and do the activity enough, he’s going to learn to do it. And if he’s shy, he’s gonna sit there and go, “No, I don’t like her, he likes her.” After a while he say, “Ok it’s your turn.” And then he’ll get up and he would be “it” as you call it. And then you’ll say, [Singing] “This young man ain’t got no wife Little Liza Jane. He can’t get a wife to save his life, Little Liza Jane.

Still an Eliza, Little Liza Jane. Still Eliza, Little Liza Jane.” And then he’ll skip about singing—[Singing] “Still an Eliza, Little Liza Jane. Still Eliza, Little Liza Jane.” And then they’ll sit down together [Laughter]. [Singing] “This young man ain’t got no wife Little Liza Jane.” It’s not the song, it’s the activity. Because you got to stop that galloping. He’s got to learn to skip. And they used to love that because they get chance to sit by their favorite lil girl or lil boy.

	D:	That song, was it in a movie? That song sounds so familiar to me.



	C:	It’s old, it’s old. It’s called Little Liza Jane. Little Liza L-I-Z-Z-I-E—Little Liza Jane. D:	Yeah, I’m familiar with that song. It kind of reminds me of—

	O:	Nina. That’s where I heard it. Nina Simone she sings that. She has a rendition of Little Liza Jane.

	D:	It reminds me of a song that goes like this. M:	Oh, we used to sing that in 1945.

	D:	Have you ever heard a song, “It’s a hole in a bucket oh [inaudible 59:33] Henry.



There’s a hole in a bucket.” Something by Harry Belafonte. I can’t think of the name of that song.





	C:	[inaudible 59:41] A long time ago we didn’t have Black music, you know. We could hear Nat King Cole on the radio and [inaudible 59:57]. But we had to listen to Western music. And so they used to sing a song about the bucket got a hole in it, don’t have no bail. But Momma didn’t allow us to sing that.

	D:	They can’t sing that song?



	C:	We couldn’t sing that in the house. I did a lot of teaching by just singing. D:	Sure, sure, sure, and that’s a lot of help in education.

	M:	That’s a lot of help in education, you’re right. That’s interesting.



	D:	So is there anything you guys would like to leave us with? And final words that you would like to share?

	M:	Oh I talk too much anyway. D:	No you’re not, no you’re not. O:	Best problem to have.

	C:	I’m not very talkative for the people like you. I talk with little people. D:	Oh no, we’re even not big people, we’re just—

	O:	We’re still in school.



	C:	We get my little group together when we have talk time in the morning about once or twice a week. We have to sit down, we have to give them the chance to talk. They be stumbling and things like I’m doing now. But we have to have talk time. So I haven’t learned to do public speaking yet.

	O:	Can we end on maybe for both of you—Ms. Olga and Ms. Hattie, just tell me what Eatonville means to you. And we can end with that question.





	C:	Eatonville really is my home. So that means just that much, and it’s really been a pleasure living here. And I always used to ask my family if they would want to move home to my hometown. They got used to that too. They like living near the Gulf and going to the [inaudible 1:01:48]. But I love Eatonville, I like it.

Sometimes we have our own problems just like any other city. But we manage. So I love Eatonville, it’s my home now.

	M:	Eatonville is my pride. My pride and just happiness. To me, I feel my history started when those Black people were put on the block after they made that trip from Africa. And how they adjusted, not knowing the language, not knowing the country, not even having any family. And then from there, my pride just have jumped out. And then to see the different things that have been accomplished over the years by these people who have just everything against the. And they couldn’t even hide and change their names because of their skin—they were out there anyway. I mean it was like a beacon. So when you come up to a place like Eatonville, representing so many people’s heart and efforts and love and care. I mean it’s just a beautiful thing—and the pride I feel as a Black women. I just feel the pride in my people that way. Because to show the human nature—how you can go against all odds. Cause let’s face it. How did we leave Africa? Our own so-called brothers there sold us. To what? We didn’t know? And look at what we came up and have done. I mean what—

	O:	And how it’s lasted.



	M:	Yes and how’s it’s lasted. And the different ones who have obtained. And so that’s why I cannot be jealous of anybody. I just can’t. I am too proud of any—





how do you say—things that they have accomplished. I’m proud when I hear someone has gotten there. And the Black race out there. I’m proud of them getting there, I’m proud of them getting there. I can’t say, “Who do they think they are, you know?” Because some Black people have to try to be there White. And I have no problems with White people. I mean I feel I like—to me I don’t see color. All I see is—I see people. Some people are horrible with White skin. I know some horrible people with Black skin. You know? Any skin you have doesn’t make say what you are. So I’m for what you are. And things like Eatonville shows me—and I love the love that’s shown and feeling for each other. And you know fellows? I’m glad to see—cause you young ones—and I’m glad to see you fellas coming up and taking a pride in history and somehow keeping it for the young ones. Keep them so they can be prideful that they don’t have to feel that they have to be somebody else. And make themselves somebody else in order to be something. They don’t have to be, just be themselves. There’s nothing to be ashamed of, you know? Sometimes we blow it, but doesn’t everybody else? You know, I mean nobody has a perfect record. So therefore, I would say pride. Pride in the accomplishments of these 27 men showing up instead of 29 all right. Only two dropped out. I mean—you’ve got to be pride—and look where there went. I mean have you been to the new Civil Rights museum in Atlanta?

	O:	No I haven’t yet.



	M:	Cause they have you at a table where you put your hand at [inaudible 1:06:02] so forth on everything. And when they were at that counter, and screaming at them





and all that—how did they take it? You know I mean, then they show you the Civil Rights march. And they show you all that—

	C:	Oh I was in that



	M:	Oh yeah you got there? I mean it’s just —they show you all these things. [Side conversation]

	C:	My granddaughter, I used to take her to church with me when she was little girl. She grew up there. But she went to daycare at a Christian church, a little one. And then she joined a non-denominational—she’s at Northland now. And then so every Mother’s Day, my children would always come and go back to church in Macedonia. Cause they were lazy. So then my granddaughter, the oldest one—I say, “You gonna come back and go to church with me?” She said, “Grandma, I like your church. But your pastor holla at me. I guess I don’t like preachers that holler at me.” I said, he’s not hollerin at you, it’s the way he preach. [Side conversation] Were you brought up in the church?

	O:	I was, I was actually. I was brought up in the Church of Christ.



	C:	My daddy’s people were [inaudible 1:08:35]. My mother’s people were Baptist so on the first and third, they went to the Sanctified Church and on the second and fourth, we went down to the Baptist Church. But back then you know, the Baptist didn’t believe in drums and tambourines and all of that. But in the Sanctified Church, they had those. So we goin to the Sanctified Church today [inaudible 1:08:56]

	M:	I didn’t realize that. That’s what the big difference is.





	C:	But anyways, we gonna all end up at the same gate. We all walkin down the same road. What I tell my grand now—my children grown—“If you don’t pray, you have a hard time.” I don’t know how they make it. I could even not have any money. But still somehow I make it. I never been broke. I didn’t have much though.

	D:	You had 50 cent. [Laughter]



	C:	Cause I’d say “Lord, I gotta have some money today. I talk to Him like I’m talking to you.” And then when I’m in trouble, I say “Lord [inaudible 1:09:51] you need to come see bout me.” [Laughter] But really it works. There is a God, there is a Devil too. That Devil is strong. There is a Devil, you can believe me. So if you’re ever in Eatonville—

	D:	Come by—what’s the name of the church again?



	C:	Macedonia in Eatonville. Did you read Zora Neale—You ever read any of Zora Neale’s book?

	D:	Their Eyes Were Watching God.



	C:	Yeah, that’s a good one. She tells a lot of jokes in that one. You don’t even know how [inaudible 1:10:26]

	D:	Who me?



	C:	Isn’t that how you got Black? [Side conversation] She said, “The master had made man just like he wanted. Eyes and nose—everything in place. So he put the word out and say, “On Thursday morning at 7:00, we’re going to give out the color. And you be here on time because it will last about an hour.” So sure enough everybody there, they thought they wanted color [inaudible 1:11:17] pick





out what they wanted was there. She say a multiple of people, laying around in Lake [inaudible 1:11:29] and everything. She’ll drag them around. So the master said, “Go down there and tell them they got 10 minutes to come and get the color, or they won’t get any.” They jumped up runnin and the master was sitting there on them waiting. They came in running and they pushed the throne and it spin around. And the master say, “Get back, get back!” The thought he said, “Get Black.” Everybody grabbed Black [Laughter]

	M:	And that’s supposed to be a historian? [Laughter] O:	That’s Zora.

	D:	All right, well we’re going to wrap it up. [End of interview]





	Transribed by:	Ebony Love, February 3, 2017 Audit edited by:	Chris Calton, October 9, 2018 Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 26, 2019