AAHP 675; Sunday; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 675 Georgia Sunday 7-6-2019 Interviewed by Ryan Morini on July 6, 2019 29 Pages

Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; Pensacola, Florida; environmental racism]



AAHP 675

Interviewee: Georgia Sunday Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: July 6, 2019



	M:		This is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. Today is July 6th, 2019, and I’m here at the Wedgewood Community Center in Pensacola with Mrs. Georgia Sunday. Thank you for joining me today.

	S:	You’re welcome.



	M:	So, can we begin with when and where you were born?



	S:	I was born in Selma, Alabama. My mother moved there when I was three months old and I have been here in Escambia County ever since. I’ve been here all my life. Most of it— but three months. [Laughter]

	M:	That’s a good stretch. S:	Right.

	M:	I’m guessing you don’t remember Selma much. Did you ever go back?



	S:	I went back occasionally. I had a grandmother and my daddy’s sisters that lived there, so sometimes in the Summer I did go back and visit them. But never to live. I’ve been here, attended all the public schools here and everything.

	M:	So where, when your mother moved here, where did you move to?



	S:	When we first came here, she lived on Cervantes and Sea Spring, I think it was. And then later we moved out in the development project, the Maris Courts, and then later, when I was eleven years old, her mother was buying a house on Ackinese Street, located between Rue and Jackson, and she had some type of surgery and she not recover well, so when I was eleven, my mother moved to





help her mother to keep the house, and so I stayed there until I got married on



Ackinese Street.



	M:	Okay. So, how would you describe the neighborhood where you grew up?



	S:	Where I grew up, it was a pretty nice neighborhood. Most of the young people there was going to the Catholic school, either St. Joseph or St. Anthony, and there was a few of us that went to the public schools. I started out at LA Cursey, and then we went to Gibson, and from Gibson we had a Washington Junior High at that time, and later they built the Washington High that is now the Holamo Center, that’s where I graduated in 1958 from Washington High School.

	M:	Do you have any favorite memories from school growing up? Where there any teachers who stood out for you?

	S:	Yes, I had several teachers. Mr. Edward, Mrs. Goode. I know Mrs. Goode is deceased now, but she was a home economics teacher, and she taught me sewing and a lot about keeping a house, so I kinda looked up to her. Mrs. Kirk, who was English teacher that I learned a lot from. Mostly the teachers at that time— we had people of color that was teaching us. What we learned, we really maintained, and it kinda carried me through everything I have accomplished today.

	M:	And can I ask, what did your mother do for a living?



S:  My mother worked as a maid for many years. My daddy, under the influence of alcohol, threatened to kill us. I was five years old at the time, and so she raised the three of us— I had to brothers— and she raised us, got us through school,





and worked up here. Finally I helped her to get a driver’s license then. She started for the school board, and I think it was the Chappie James Building when it was first built. She was hired there, even though she was a little up in age, and she worked there until she retired.

	M:	Can I ask what her name was?



	S:	Her name was Mary Pearl Rivers. M:	Pearl spelled like the…

	S:	P-E-A-R-L.



	M:	Thank you. Was she from Selma? S:	Yes, she was from Selma.

	M:	So the whole family was?



	S:	She and my father both was from Selma, but I haven’t seen him since I was five so I don’t really know. We’ve tried to track him down and get some information on him but we never have. My mother never remarried, she raised the three of us and my baby brother is deceased. King Rivers, who is my brother, we are both here, my mother’s deceased now, he owned the King’s Barbeque for many years, and he worked at the Railroad company and all that, Armstrong, and then he went in business for himself— over twenty-seven years he had King’s Barbecue shop there. So I guess it’s been about three years, he finally started having some medical problems, and he sold the property, so he’s just enjoying life. Having some illness, and sickness at the time, but still existing.





	M:	I can respect that. Are there any other kinda memories that stand out to you about your mother that you wanna share?

	S:	Well, she did everything she could to keep us involved, even though a lot of things she could not afford. We attended church, my brothers was in boy scouts, and I was in girl scouts. I sang in the chorus at Washington High School for four years, was part of the nursing club that they had at that time. She did what she could to keep us on the right track. I used to work some for fifty cents an hour after I got out of school, and sometimes on Saturdays at a grocery store. My brothers wanted to stop and try and help her, but she wouldn’t let them. She made them both stay in school and graduate. My brother, sometime we were talking, and he just say he’s glad that she did. But she worked real hard to take care of the three of us. She died about – I guess it’s been five years ago. I really miss her but she did everything to— even after we was gone she was a part of whatever she could do for us. But she finally left Ackinese Street after her mother died— no, that was before. And they bought a house over in Ebinore. It was hard for me to see them sell the old house, but they did, and they bought a home, and they have good subdivision. And that’s where she live up until she pass.

	M:	I see. And so you said you moved out when you got married? S:	Right.

	M:	So what happened there, how did you meet…





	S:	I had been to a movie— a girlfriend and I, we was going home, and it was two guys that was behind us, and my husband he told the other guy, “Ima talk to the one that side, and you—”[Laughter] And they kinda walked us home. During that time we would have cars and all of that. So we was leaving the movie. So after the boy found out that we lived a long ways, the other boy decided he didn’t want to walk that far. [laughter] But my husband, who I’ve been married to this past June sixty years, he walked me all the way home, and then he kept calling me until finally he asked my mother if he could come and see me, cause at that time it was not like girls do now. And so he got permission, and we courted for a while. I was in the process of working at Three Sister’s restaurant after I graduated from high school, and I was saving my money to go to Grace’s Memorial Nursing School, but he kept chasing me down until I got married. He promised he was gonna send me back to school, but I ended up going to school here in Pensacola rather than going anywhere out of town, because we started a family. We moved out when we got married, had to wait about a year to get an apartment out in the Alice Court, which is a government— you know. And we stayed there until— I came out of nursing school, it was your income, and they jumped up so high on the income, until we was buying some property out here, and so my husband purchased mobile home and moved it on the property. We came out here I think in [19]65 if I’m not mistaken.

	M:	Can I ask your husband’s name?



	S:	Jimmie. J-I-M-M-I-E. Jimmie Sunday.



	M:	Jimmie Sunday. And he’s from Pensacola?





	S:	He’s from Milton, he’s from Santa Rosa County. And his mother – his daddy lived in Milton, and his mother married someone from Milton, but they moved here in Pensacola. So he was sometimes back and forth with his daddy and with his mother. His daddy and grandmother did a lot of rearing him, getting him up. But he actually became a teenager, I think he was with his mother, and stepfather more.

	M:	And can I ask—nursing, how did you decide on nursing?



	S:	Well, I, who was living in Mary’s Court, there was Mrs. Cahome, that would go out and she would be all her in her white and her little cap. And I didn’t realize nursing was as hard as it really was. [Laughter] So seeing her I decided I wanted to be a nurse. And so that was my first aspiration from my childhood, I probably was— ‘cause we moved out of the Courts when I was eleven. I would see her everyday going and coming back from work, and that kinda inspired me to— I always like to do things to help people, so it was some way, maybe giving back and helping others who had helped us.

	M:	And what were your experiences in nursing school like?



	S:	Okay, well at that time, you know it was in the process of going into integration, so, at that time we had a Washington Junior College and Vocational School. And the nursing program was through the Professional School, and we took training down at the Naval Station. And so at that time, I was trying to decide— I had been offered a job at the Escambia General Hospital, which is Rosewood Manor now, it’s still in the same place, and I had to make a decision between whether I





should take the job or go to school. And so I decided to – my husband said “well, it’s up to you.” I decided to go on and have three babies about that time. So I took the entrance test, and I think it was about two hundred of us, and about twelve of us was selected from the group to attend the class. So we had a class of twelve, and eleven of us graduated, and a I guess most of them— are deceased, but most of them are probably retired by now. So I started out working at Baptist Hospital, and I had worked some Civil Service, so a friend of mine wanted me to come work over at the jail that they are building now, when it was first built. I worked at Baptist, I guess about fifteen or sixteen years, and while I was there I took— well, Baptist start sending me back to RN school, and was paying for me to go. But at the same time, they had a pharma college and class fair. So I had scored real high on our test, I was in the 95 percentile scoring for the state of Florida, so they called me to the office and told me they would like to see me go back to school, so I started then going back to PJC. And I went for a couple of years and took some academic courses, and then a took another class, a pharmacology class that they offered at Baptist, that was painful with darn Mrs. Wiggin, and I start working there as a drug tech. We had a IV team and a drug tech team, and when I first got there, I worked on the floor, and then after I took that class, I used too work in the pharmacy. It was two of us that took calls at night in the pharmacy, from twelve, when the pharmacy left, until 6, and we could pass out medications that would carry them through until the next morning. We could not do narcotics, anything like that. But that was part of what I did. I worked different floors, like Orthopedics, Labor and Delivery, Nursery, 3 was like





a Surgical floor. I worked just about everywhere but Pediatrics. I didn’t like sticking and working with the babies and children too much. But I worked just about everywhere. Orthopedics, a little bit of everywhere. But the main two floors that I worked was Orthopedics and the Surgical floor. And after I took the pharmacology class that they had, we just passed medications, and at night, the two of us would— she would check on half of the hall for medication errors, and we would write them up and could write them and turn them into the supervisors the next morning. And then this friend talked me to— I worked part time at the jail, when it was Civil Service, and I worked Civil Service, and the benefits and everything was much better at the jail than it was at Baptist. So I went over there, start working. I was the first Black nurse that was hired at the Escambia County Jail. And I worked there until I retired. It was more clinical, a big difference from regular nursing, and it’s not for everybody, but I felt like I served a purpose being there, and Jessie DeVito was the supervisor at that time, and she said they had – a lot of the inmates had been “Why don’t you have a Black nurse?” so they hired me, and I worked for quite a while there. Then they hired other, you know, people of color. And we worked the infirmary. Everyone that came in, we used to do a H and P, a history and physical on them, we would draw blood from them, check them for AIDS, and we’d have what you’d call sick call, and we would check them, and as they come in they did H and P, so if they had any medical problems, anything like that, we would put them on to see the doctor, and there was a psych patient, so we had area there that we kept the psych patients. We had a psychologist that came in. We had a dentist that came in so many days,





and treat the ones that needed treating. We had doctors that came in every day. We’d pass medications on the hall where the inmates were. I would have sick call like I said, and we would check them out and see what’s going in. In the mornings we would do labs and check blood sugars and draw blood for the lab. And then finally we kept patients that had illness that they need to be in the infirmary, we kept them there, so we could keep an eye on them. We had a lot of patients that would cut their wrists. Oh, and we had hangings. You know it was— p so we was always— we had the cells that was always there. We never went in the cells. I think I did it one time, and the lieutenant gave me a hard time, “I don’t care how sick they are, you’re not to go in the cell by yourself!” So, we always had an officer that assist us when we pass medicine and stuff like that.

They open the doors for us. We never was exposed. And when we had sick call there was always an officer sitting right there. We had a button if we had to let somebody know that something was going on. It was quite an experience. It was different. Oh my goodness, I can’t tell you some of the things we saw— you wouldn’t believe. And we saw people walk so I come through, a lot of the time they was being transferred to like a federal prison. They would come from somewhere, maybe spend the night there, a couple of days, then they move on. Then we had a lot of inmates that would go and just do something to get back in when they get cold. It was quite an experience, and I did enjoy it. A lot of times they would share things with the nurse that they wouldn’t share with the officers and things like that. And so you got an opportunity, a lot of times, to— I would refer them all the time to the psychologist if I felt like it was something where they





may need some counseling or something like that. And any time there was an emergency, somebody decide to do something stupid, we would have to go up and either check them out and send them to the hospital, or do first aid, or whatever we could do for them. It was quite an experience I just say. They had promised us that they would make all of us cell nurses, and that way we could get all the benefits that the COs was getting, and I think we had a couple people, about three, that they start doing it on, but then they stopped. They start letting the officers kinda come in and do a lot of things that I didn’t particularly like, and I didn’t feel safe with them. So I finally went on and retired. But I worked there I guess about eighteen years. And now they’re building a new jail. You probably heard about the explosion or something that went on a few years ago, and some had injuries and stuff like that, so they’re in the process now of building a new jail.

	M:	Can I ask, with all the things you were dealing with, I mean that’s a very special kinda situation I guess— was it hard not to take that home with you?

	S:	Well, you learn— right. And you know, we was taught that you didn’t get involved with the inmates and stuff like that. You wouldn’t let them call you or anything like that. You never gave out telephone numbers, because they are real manipulative. You wouldn’t believe. The attendance and I will tell you don’t believe this and that, and I’m turning you in with a list, and then later on, they told you one thing, and you find out something different. And a lot of— ask me to pray for them on different things, “I’m going to court today momma!” Lot of calling me momma. [Laughter] Officer say, “why do you?” And I say, “Well, if they feel like





that about me maybe they need a mother’s figure. So felt like I played a part in a lot of them life, and I would try to encourage them and think a lot of times when they came in, try to more or less— we could talk religion, I didn’t think like that. So you just basically, I used to take, say JC, it was Jesus Christ. Her ways of communicating inspired some of the things. But overall, there was some touchy situations that happened there. One time we had a guy that had two ball point pens in his eyes, and we got him, and he was hanging, but he survived. I don’t know if he was ever able to see, but he did survive. We went in and got him, and they said he did it himself but I don’t think he did. You know, we went through things like that, and lot of the psych patients— one guy had killed his father, and he would just be walking around in his cell. If it rained, it really turned him on.

And he wanted his daddy to make it stop raining. You know, you saw a lot things. I don’t know, you probably wasn’t around, but when this young man got cut up, the dog, and his grandmother and grandfather, and run off Sunday, upstate, you see stuff like that, but he had never seen anything down here like that. Just assuming the young man, you’d never think that he have done something like that. Oh yeah, I saw a lot of things. I could write a bestseller easily.

	M:	I believe it.



	S:	But I just feel like the lord put me there for a purpose, and I walk out sometimes out of a grocery store, and they come up to me, “You remember me?” And you know I say, I saw a thousand of them, so naturally I don’t remember half of them. And they say, “Oh you was my nurse when I was in jail.” I say, “Oh, oh, how you doing now?” “I’m on the right track now, I’m doing ok.” And some cases would





come in and burst into tears. One girl that I knew her mother real well, and I knew how hard she had worked with her children. She had been in the second time she came, and I could not believe it was her, and she said that later, when she got out, and I saw her, she told me, she said, “Sunday, when I came in and I saw tears come in your eyes, I knew you cared. That’s what helped me to straighten my life.” So you never know what you’re doing and how it helps. So I had a lot of them that I just see in the street and the grocery stores, somewhere, they come up and they remember me. I don’t always remember. Now some of them I do remember! [Laughter] And it’s not for everybody, we’ve had nurses that come in and work one day, and come in and you’re locked in, and a lot of them just couldn’t take it. They come in one day and that’s it, they decide no, it’s not for me. So it wasn’t for everybody, but I felt like I was placed there for a purpose.

And when I got to the place I wasn’t happy doing what I was doing, it was time to let it go, so I did. And I did do a little nursing. I worked out at the dog track in the first day, sometimes part time, just because I knew a lot of the officers, and they would be out there, and they needed someone to work first day, so I did that.

Part time sometime. I could sit and watch TV, and if someone fell, one guy, or swallowed some steak and I had to do the Heimlich, and the steak came out. He said, “Want me to buy you some steak?” I said, “No, look what the steak did to you!” But I worked out there as part of my nursing, and every year I had a Girl Scout troop, and I would take off part of my vacation and work as their first aid person, I worked with the girl scouts. And I would take a week of my vacation and volunteer with the girl scouts. I’ve done quite a bit with nursing and young people,





and the elderly. I still do what I can. Right now my husband and I both are. Having some medical problems, so I’m not quite as involved as I have been at one time.

	M:	That’s understandable, you’ve done a lot as it is. So you moved here to Wedgeood in…?

	S:	I don’t really live in Wedgewood. I live further down what they call the Bottom, and this area is really Olive Heights. And Wedgewood is a part of Olive Heights. So people assume that all of us live in Wedgewood, but Wedgewood was not here when I moved out here. The school was not here at that time. I think it came right afterwards. I came out here in the [19]60s. I have some friends that came out here in the [19]50s. We didn’t have payrolls, the bus couldn’t come down here, through like it does now. There was very few houses and things then, fifty- some years ago. But, like I said, the Wedgewood area, we have the Rolling Hill, which is more or less like a subdivision. And then we have the Bottom, is where people’s that— we had several our forefathers offer that sitting in the other room. Daddy sold property because we bought our property from him. And we moved from the Courts out here— a lot of other people in this area, the Atkins and the— I don’t remember the guy that owned Capitol Boulevard – them and the Fields, and the Apricots, they all had property. A lot of people’s from Alabama, they bought them here, but sell them a little piece of land, and they would build a house. So back past the ball field, down in that area, is called the Bottom, but we are all part of Olive Heights. And my children went to, which used to be Olive elementary, and then later the Lincoln Park Subdivision, so they named the





school Lincoln Park, and then later they built Longleaf and the other school. So they went to Wedgewood here, and then from Wedgewood they went to William until they built Fine Forest. So they had built up a lot over the period of fifty- something or sixty-something years. We’ve come a long way. County Commissioners worked with us for getting roads, and water, and everything, because when we first moved down here we used kerosene, because we had a mobile home, and then my water and a lot of peoples had outdoor bathrooms. We had lived in the Courts so we’ve always had running water and heat. So my husband didn’t want to go to the hotel room and all that stuff, so ended up bringing— I think we probably brought the first mobile home out here. [Laughter] And we used kerosene at that time for heating. But now, we have central air and all in one. I guess we’ve come a long ways. We’ve got roads and paved roads and things now. We’ve come a long ways out here.

	M:	It sounds that way. What did the Bottom look like when you moved in?



	S:	Very few houses. Lot of trees, a house here and house there, not very many. It was nice and quiet. Lot of people that came from Alabama was field farming.

Garden and pigs, some chickens, and you know things like that. Now Wedgewood, when they got the subdivision, I don’t think they could have that, be we could, down in our area. So we had pigs and sugarcane and greens and corn, a little bit of all of it, you know. A lot of those people are just more or less kinda died out, so you don’t see a lot. We have a few people that still have a few goats and a few chickens and a few hogs in those small gardens and stuff like that. But like I said most of them are more in the Bottom. You don’t see it too much—





maybe on Capitol, you may see a few people that still have a garden or something like that. But you can get things now just about everywhere, cheap. So most people are not farming and doing what they used to do years ago.

	M:	Did the community actually grow a lot of their own food back then? S:	Yes, they did.

	M:	So it was…



	S:	My husband is from Milton, so his daddy and his grandmother, oh my goodness, they had pigs, chickens, grapes, worms, fish, tomatoes, greens, corn, so we got a lot of vegetables and things because at that time, they enjoyed doing all of that. He was an only child so his daddy— we didn’t suffer anything too much if his daddy was there. Because like I said he just enjoyed – they used to go fishing, and they would catch fish, and then they raise just about anything, they didn’t have anything else do to. After he came out of the military, he worked at Pardon’s Field as a cook for a while. He enjoyed cooking so on weekends we would catch the Greyhound bus and go to Milton. [Laughter] And spend Saturday, Sunday with them, and then we would come back. My husband worked for the city. He worked for a long time, a few years, and then I think he stayed with the city about twenty-nine years and he retired. And then he worked a little bit with community transportation, just to have something to do after he retired. And he was real athletic, he worked with a lot of the youth and young men in the area with softball, and baseball, and he played ball, and umpire, and





coached. He was into sports a lot himself. I didn’t have much choice but to start enjoying it too. [laughter]

	M:	That’s how it is I guess sometimes.



	S:	Right. Like I said, I worked with Girl Scouts, and my first three children, went as far as they could go in Girl Scouts, and the last two was into 4H, and we still have a 4H group now, and they put things out at the fair. They meet and do different things at county events, and go down to State Leg, and do different things, so all my girls are active working in the community in Girl Scouts and 4H. We had the HCE club— it was a part of national for many years before Florida – and that stood the extension program in IFAS, out at the University. And I served as State Citizenship Chairman for about six years. And we put University of Florida first place in citizenship when they was restoring the Statue of Liberty. I used to go and do programs, and we had the state of Florida. I would go in and teach assistantship classes and different things, and have a state meeting. And then we decided to help in the restoring of the Statue of Liberty. So I turned in a book, all the state sends in books in different areas. It was an educational program, and it won first place, and then it was on the USD and Write-Up magazine, and I went there and received an award and everything. We put Florida on the map. We have a little label there I went. But after 9/11 at the time that I was there, but not yet to see it or anything because of security reasons and things. But we did, and this was way back I think the mid [19]80s, when we did the restoring. We did different programs and raised money, and we sent so much money there. And as a result of what we had done here, it turned out that our group won first place.





	M:	Wow.



	S:	And now I’ve had my children be a part of Girl Scouts. I had want to go to Barbados. And then I had a young man from Barbados that came here and stayed with me around a month. And I had wanted to go to Wyoming on a Wyoming trip, and I’ve had some grandchildren that has gone to Washington, and to the Phillips Center, I’ve gone there. I’ve been realized that with you, and I’ve had troops here at Wedgewood when we had the school. For many, many years we had girl scout troop, and they’ve been trying to get started again, but it’s kinda hard to get people, so it takes time to volunteer and get it started again. But like I said we still have the 4Hers, and some of them have received scholarships from the fair. You know, Pensacola State Fair gives scholarships and stuff like that. So some of my grandchildren have been able to, and I have one daughter that has received a scholarship from an we put something in and build three out it to Pensacola, in the state fair, the 4Hers do as well as the HCE club. That’s a group that’s sponsored by— I think we have five districts here in Florida, and through the extension program, the program has fallen down from what it used to be. It used to be a real international program. We would go on the local, the state, and the national level. But they cooled down and right now we just on the state level, we are not affiliated with the national program. They have a lot of programs that they would give us when we would go, and then we would come back and initiate them in our community and the other communities. So we learned a lot of skills, and we learned things like writing grants. We used to go to the University and take some of the courses and things that they offer. Clothing





and textile, and they would have writing grants, and telling your own kind of ways, or consumer information. We have a newsletter that we get on a state level, and one local that we get about every other month, now. It used to be every month, but since it’s not what it used to be. When I was president of the organization we had like three hundred and something members, and now we are down to like maybe a hundred or something. As people die, all this technology, so much going on, it’s not as strong as it used to be. But they still offer a lot of good information and classes and things that you go and maybe take a class and then you come back and share what you’ve learned with others. So I have worn myself out now through the years, and now I’m just trying to keep going. [Laughter]

	M:	That’s a lot! That really is. You were the first Black nurse at the jail, right? You were here in Pensacola for a quite a while, what did integration look like here in Pensacola? How would you describe that overall?

	S:	Well I could say the main things were…we had separate bathrooms and water fountains, and when I first started working at Baptist, most of the people of color was on first floor. And most of the nurses of those people was more or less of color. And we had a few of us that was spread around and about on the other floors, but not very many. And a lot of times, even though you came in, they didn’t wanna recognize you as being a nurse. Gone in and someone called for something for pain, and I go in to take him an injection, and they tell me they don’t want an N-Person giving them. But I worked with this old Navy nurse, and she goes in and she tell him that “This is Ms. Sunday, she is a nurse, and if





you’re hurting, she will be the one who’s giving you some medication. If you don’t want Ms. Sunday, then you don’t get medication, well you just lay up here and hurt.” [Laughter] She decided she would take it. And we’ve had people come in, I’ve seen doctors to go in, and this lady didn’t want us taking care of her, and her told her well she was from jail. He told her these are nurses and they work this floor, and when you get back from surgery they will be the ones who’s taking care of you, and if you don’t you can help that, then you don’t wanna take it in surgery. Overall it was kinda hard to be accepted. They wanna call you by your first name, so we found it to get recognized as, you know, George and that girl.

There are a lot of them petty things, you know, that you go through, and you learn to just look over it, and just go and do what you gotta do, and make it. I’ve gone to the back door, and I’ve taken care of people. I hang clothes and clean the house when I was in high school, and walked to the back door, and did what I had to do, and sometimes I caught the bus there, and sometimes they brought me home. I’ve had people go that treated me like a dog, or fed the dogs better than they would put food out for me, and I was leaving there. You kind walk through some things, but my grandchildren, I tell them these things sometimes. “Granny how did you— I just don’t think I could have taken it,” and I say “Well you just learn tolerate some things, and swallow it and just go on,” I said, “But we’ve come a long ways, and I wouldn’t want to see us go back.” And then there are some good things too. It wasn’t everybody that was negative and things like that. You had some good people. Work with some wonderful people, really all my life, I’ve had people to say, “Ms. Sunday, you have children? You take Christmas





off?” You do this and do that? And they’ll work so I can be off. I’ve had some good times, been able to tolerate it and make it this far. And most people find out who you are and what you stand for, they’re going to accept you. So it’s about— this day and time some young people with attitudes, and sometime I think we’d give them a little bit too much, and they’re just not appreciative enough. And during that time I guess we was worried for what we could give and everything.

So, times and changes come about. Last the pros and cons everywhere you go. Overall, I’ve had a pretty good life, and even through the integration. I worked downtown at Three Sisters. At that time you had to go to the back of the counter, and you could order something, but you couldn’t sit there and eat it or anything like that. My brother worked at Alabasters and I worked at Three sisters from when I first got out of high school, and Buddy, and most of the girls, they wouldn’t eat at the counters. We would go upstairs, she was, “come on Sonny we gotta go back and go upstairs.” And they did a lot of sit ins and stuff like that, but I went through all of that and visited quite well. [Laughter] But overall I’ve never had anybody to hurt me or anything like that. Maybe with words but not any other way. Like I say you want them to just look over some things that happen. You just take it in stride, cause I just wasn’t brought up that way. We had a lot of people when we came up that, my great-grandmother used to piece quilts, and then my mother, before she worked for the county, she had worked for Patricia’s Dress Shop. They owned the shop, so a lot of times I would get real nice clothes because those girls, they had two girls, and they would bring the clothes home, and half time they wear them one time, “Mary, take this to your daughter.”





[laughter] So really we was blesse in a lot of ways. And my grandmom used to piece quilts and sew them, and make a little money. Then I learned to sew, and make my clothes. And I would make that two dollars on Saturday, fifty cents an hour, and at that time, two dollars was a lot of money. I’d buy me a pretty blouse, and make me a skirt with a couple yards of material, and make me a dress or skirt or something. A lot of the peoples would be jealous even if my shirt was all at school I had. To fine girls I used to sew. And when one of my daughters was presented for a Debutante, I had made her dress, and she was the Belle of the ball. They had told me the announcement that their mother had made her outfit, and everybody just looking at the dress. Her dad presented her. And I used to make most of my children clothes. Some of what I learned was extension, and some of what I learned in school. I’ve even made my husband suits. Everything now they have thrift stores, and all this stuff, so you don’t have to do a lot of sewing. Occasionally, I don’t even find the time now, but during that time that you weren’t working, volunteering, and doing all of that, you still found time to sew and do some things to save money. At that time they enjoyed wearing the clothes and things that I made. And I usually make things for my supervisor – White nurse’s uniforms. I’ve done a lot from things I’ve learned. Laundry the right way, I learned that through extension, the program I was telling you. And I’ve sold by and large many slips and gowns, and the satin sheets and all that stuff. I used to sew so much stuff like that when I was younger. So everything that I learned, and then I was – one of these peoples that wanted to learn as much as I could, so I would do PJC until I closed my textile out there. I could sell pretty good, I’m not





patting myself on the back, but I did ok with sewing, and I like arts and crafts and stuff, and I like collecting antiques and things like that. I don’t do a lot now. I used to collect a lot of dolls. I’m trying to rid of some of them now. No longer doing that. I’ve tackled the few things in my life to have, so like I say, it has not been a bad life.

	M:	No, it sounds extraordinary.



	S:	And nursing like I said, is a service. I still do what I can to help. I’ve had people who I’ve gone by, they on this and that. And this volunteer they needed to help, just giving them the injections, check the bloodstream. Do whatever I can in that way. Once you’re a nurse— I went onto a little cruise one time, and there was dancing, and one lady fell out on the floor, and they asked if a medical person was there. I didn’t open my mouth, and I knew it was somebody on that boat that was a medical person. Somebody else. I thought, “Oh Lord, no.” [laughter] Whenever I have to go the rescue, I do, but I hate for people to really know somebody that I help. I am a nurse. But she was real grateful an all. A lot of the times you’re put on the spot when you don’t want to be. But I have enjoyed working as a nurse these fifty – well not quite fifty years. I’ve been out of nursing fifty-seven years now. I was telling my daughter, “I don’t think I’m gonna renew these license this year.” After I retired I still kept my license, and I’ve been fine, but I was just telling them I got this month to sign. I was just telling her today, she is a nurse, and she works over in Santa Rosa. I have another one, she’s a nurse’s age, she works at what used to be the old Escambia Hospital. It’s Rosewood Manor, which is a convalescent home. I have a daughter that works





there. Then I have one that works over in Milton at Pea Ridge. She’s in the storage department over in Milton. So we all enjoy what we do, and I think a lot of girls that was Girl Scouts that told me that they was inspired by me being a nurse, and this is what made them go into nursing. That’s pretty much. And you know naturally I’m nursing at home now with my husband. He’s had three back surgeries and carpal tunnel, three surgeries on his hands, so he’s not able to do a whole lot now, so I do a lot of nursing at home. But overall I’ve enjoyed when I went in to the career. A lot of people said I should have been a teacher, but I chose to go into nursing, and I have enjoyed serving as a nurse. We have a few other people that in this area that are nurses, we’ve had some that’s deceased now that lived in the Wedgewood area. A few. Mrs. Multree, she’s one now. And one that I know of that worked with my daughter at Rosewood Manor. But we have quite a few that’s going into the nursing field. I tried to talk my grandson into going into the field of nursing but he chose not to. But there are a lot of men taking up nursing now. A lot of the military men come out, they have already worked, but they still have to go to school. We have a lot of males now that’s in the…they seem to be enjoying it, pretty good nurses. [laughter] Was there anything else I can tell you?

	M:	I know one thing folks in Wedgewood have talked about is the landfills and some of the impact.

	S:	Well, when they had problems with the landfill, they was ‘gon bring it over this area, so Mr. Shuno and myself, homemakers. We talked to the County Commissioners, at that time, Marie Young, I think. I think she was serving at that





time. But we went, instead they took it somewhere else and they took care of that area. So later, Shumo was president, for some reason he had stepped down. I was the vice, so I ended up serving as president for weeks. And I took the petition down that we had to get it started here. I’ll never forget it. It was when they had that real bad storm, and I didn’t even know it was storming outside. We came out, and the water— I’d never prayed so hard in my life—but we was on the inside of downtown, and we didn’t’ realize it was as bad outside as it was. But anyway, we had got I guess over two hundred names of people sign up to petition, and we wanted them to close it up and not bring any more out here, because we have a large number. And we also needed lights and sidewalks, and so on the petition I had listed several things that we as homeowners an people living out in this area would like to see them do. And that’s how we got started, and we’re still working on it because it’s still kinda covering up and doing some things. We’ve had lawyers. We’re still in the process. It’s somewhat better; the smell is not as bad and everything. But we feel like in time it’s probably gonna damage the water. And they have pacified us to some extent, but it’s not really what we would like to see done, because we’ve had a lot of health problems, and we feel like it contributed to the health problems. And when we had that storm, a lot of the stuff from that land fill came out with the water. I’ll tell you we’ve gone through a lot and then the older and all of that was like from that times. And just wasn’t a lot we could do because we didn’t realize the danger, and they sneak these little landfills in and you don’t even more or less know they’re there. A lot of it are on people’s bought land, and they put what they want out there, and at the





time nobody really complained a whole about it. And we really, a lot of people, elderly people, say they don’t know the danger that some of the landfills are causing . And I’m not saying that to put anybody to have like eleven or thirteen in them, once around an area, it hurt s the environment. Pollution is just pollution anyway you look at it. And so that’s how we got it started. We’re working on it.

Jude Cook and myself go down and confront the county commissioner and presented each of them at that time with the petition. I do have that petition at home from when we first got started. And we got peoples interested. We did have one lawyer that came in, and they did pay the people a smaller amount of dollar. But we’re still working on that project. The lawyer that we are with we are working with the environmental resources. We’re working with some of them as well as we are still working with the county. The mission is trying to— they was here a few months ago telling us things that they have done to make things better out in this area. But we are going to still be working with them. For a while. [Laughter] But the homeowners. We try to do whatever we can to try to keep the community up, and it was so bad, that one year when we had someone camp here for the young peoples, we had to take the young people somewhere else, because the smell and everything was causing a lot of problems. It is, like I said, they’ve done a lot of work over there, just packing stuff on top of it. That’s not really to me solving the problem, but they are testing and doing this and that. But if you have any common sense, you know that’s not really taking care of the real problem. We’ve had different surveys, I think the University of Florida came out, and they’ve done some surveys and stuff like that. But it’s hard to prove health-





wise that that’s what’s causing a lot of the health, and a lot of the cancer, and death, and a lot of other problems that we’ve seen in the neighborhood. But we’re still working and hopefully we get better results than we’ve gotten, but it is somewhat better than it was at one time. Because you could come by here, you could smell it. But it’s much better now.

	M:	That is good. Good luck in the fight. I mean I’m sure I could come up with questions all day, but I appreciate your time. Do you have any final thoughts?

	S:	I don’t know, I had asked Lawford to come, because she had said something about hairdressers. Her mother has been a hairdresser for over sixty-seven years and had her own business. I didn’t know whether it was just a hair dressers industry, I didn’t know if you was interested in any other.

	M:	We’re open to all kinds of—



	S:	Oh you are? Well I don’t know. I go to church at Cedar Grove Baptist church, and it is one of the oldest churches that’s in the area. And I do attend there. Over on Catheder Boulevard, over in that area. And the four hundred club is a club that has been here since the [19]50s. And it’s a social club, night club, that people do go to. And like I say as far schools, I went to the Washington Vocational School, and I have attended Pensacola Junior college, but I did not graduate from there, just took some basic courses. We had a couple stores that were out here. The Walkers had a grocery store, the Aberhearts had a grocery store. And Olive heights really got started with a lot of our fathers and grandfathers. The Sows, the Fields, the Atkins, and Olive heights, and later Wedgewood, I don’t really





know the fellow that owns the land, started the subdivision out here, but the Shumos, Bernie and Ellen, were the first I think to get a home out here. And they are still living out here. And there are others that have built up over the years, and they’ve done a lot in the community to try to keep it as nice as possible. And then later we have— it’s not quite as large as the Wedgewood, the Rolling-Hills is a subdivision area that we do have out in this area. And don’t forget the Deer farmer. But we all a part of the Olive heights, and I think Latha Gabe, I told her to come and speak on her mother, she is in rehab right now. But she is one of the beauticians that have been out here for like sixty some years. So I thought she probably could give you some information. Then we have a couple of day cares, the Collins and the Fords had the first daycare that I can remember. And then later, Ms. Virginia Nott, she built a daycare, so we had those. And Mr.

Gollway, up on the capitol. Ms. Tyson, her husband was I think a bricklayer? What did she tell me he did… but he had his more or less own business. So we had several people who had their own business and stuff out here. And it has grown over the years. Some of them are deceased, but they did play a big part in helping in building the community and being a part of Olive Heights and Wedgewood. And we fought to get this building here for many years, like ten or twelve, or more years before it really came into play, but we finally got it. I think it was 2012, when we moved in. But we had been trying for years, maybe ten or twelve years before we got here, but we’re here and we’re grateful to the county commission and to the county, and to the Lord for our being here. That’s basically as much as I can share with you. I’m available if you wanna call me if





you think of something that may be of importance. I will be glad to check with someone. I’ll let you know.

	M:	I appreciate that.



	S:	I do have a daughter work for the extension program. She has been there for thirty-eight years. She worked with the ethnic program, which is eleventh in income program through the University of Florida in the extension service here in Pensacola, where she goes out to schools and recreational areas, like this summer she’s going to different recreation, teach proper nutrition. Then I have one that worked for FAM extension through extension program. There’s a lot that do go on and that they do do here in the area that people don’t know about.

We’re not just sitting back, being bad, and on drugs and all that. A lot of us are busy doing other great things to help the community, and I think they really need to know that. Cause sometime our young peoples do, make it look terrible. They haven’t been brought up properly, but they really have. They just sometime get out there and forget where they came from. Well it was nice talking to you!

	M:	It was nice talking to you as well.



	S:	And if you need to call me, you have a telephone number right? M:	I do.

	S:	Well thanks so much. M:	Well, thank you.

[End of Interview]





Transcribed by: Rachel Hujsa





Audit-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

December 7, 2020

Final-Edited by”

Sandra Romero

January 13, 2021