AAHP 448; Harvin; Page 10

Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu





The image part with relationship ID rId1 was not found in the file.



AAHP 448 Wade Harvin

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Vickie Oldham on August 18, 2015 1 hour, 7 minutes | 35 pages



Abstract: Mr. Wade Harvin reflects on his life experiences growing up in Delson’s Quarters in Overtown, Florida. After moving here in 1945 with his mom, he recalls with fondness the community in Delson’s Quarters. He discusses the three stores that operated in Overtown and how they sold things in halves knowing that the community was stricken with poverty. He shares stories of going to Pennsylvania very summer since the age of nine to work the fields and make money. He contrasted the integrated community in Pennsylvania with the segregated one in Florida. He shares his experiences with racial violence and the ways he participated in Civil Rights. Mr. Harvin also shares the ways the Black community socialized and created entertainment. He also shares his work career in sales and banking.



Keywords: [Newton, Florida; Overtown, Florida; Segregation; African American History]



Standards:

1. SS.912.A.7.5 Social activism



































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 448 (Newton Oral History Project) Interviewee: Wade Harvin

Interviewer: Vickie Oldham Date: August 18, 2015



	O:	Mr. Harvin, tell me about where you were born, what year you were born, who are your parents and sisters and brothers.

	H:	I was born in Crescent City, Florida, September 11, 1940, nine-eleven. My parents were Wade Harvin and Laurell Bell Smith. The oldest sibling was my sister, Bernice Harvin. My next oldest, brother, was Chester Harvin. Next brother was Earnest Lee Harvin. Youngest was Ramora M. Harvin and of course myself, Wade E. Harvin Junior.

	O:	All right, you’re a junior. H:	Yes.

	O:	Now, you did not stay in Crescent City for long, or did you?



	H:	I was five years when old when we left. My mother left my dad, they separated in June of 1945.

	O:	Wow! You remember that. Why? June of [19]45, why do you remember that month?

	H:	Not quite, I remember the event. Actually it was my mother finally making a decision that she had to either leave Crescent City, Florida and divorce my dad or she’d just quietly leave in the middle of the night, as we did. And we moved to Sarasota, Florida. June of 1945.

	O:	Was it a traumatic experience? H:	Yes.

	O:	Moving? Why?



	H:	For all of us. We were a very close family. We loved our dad, unlike some





families or some children they’ll choose one or the other, “We love mother, but we didn’t feel so great about dad.” Well, we loved them both. But the move to Sarasota was gonna be a new adventure for us. We had relatives here who had moved here in 1925, Joseph Carnegie and Isabel Carnegie. And they came along with their children and so we knew some folk before we arrived here. But as with most families, when there’s separation, even if you have some funds saved, they deplete very quickly. So we had that happen, so it became a struggle and we got use to struggling after a while. So we moved June of 1945 to Mother Jones’ Rooming House in what was called Black Bottom at the time. We stayed there two weeks and we moved to what was called Delson Quarters, 821 Grove Street. And that’s where my fondest memories of Sarasota occurred. So we stayed there, I began school. At the time Booker Elementary was not in Newtown, Booker Elementary was Overtown.

	O:	The fondest memories, that peaks my interest. Why Delson Quarters? I should say describe the fond memories that you had.

	H:	Fond memories for me was the fact that we had, actually, five rooms. So we had room to move around that we hadn’t had earlier. But the people in Delson Quarters were just charming, loving people; close people. And I was told the last count out of Delson Quarters, we had eleven preachers and one bishop; Bishop Paul Williams who lives in Kansas City—Kansas City, Missouri. But out of that— because myself and my brothers are ministers of gospel, 821 Grove Streets. And we had Ray Dorkin who was also a step across Twelfth Street which was close to Delson Quarters, who was also a minister. And of course both of the Mrs.





Poes’ sons, as well as being doctors, they were also–Cupid Reese Poe is a pastor of this church in Nashville, Tennessee. So the environment was just great and another group of family that lived on Grove Street was the Louis’. One possibly could have become a pro golfer but then they had a quiet brother in the family named Earnest Louis and he was co-valedictorian with Mrs. Poe’s son, Cupid Reese Poe. And when I speak of those two fellows, we’re talking about student’s students, students plus. We would go North in the summer and work in the fields.

	O:	What kind of fields?



	H:	Well it was excited and it’s another instance that proves that God made the world large, but he also made it small. We stopped in a place called Milton, Pennsylvania. We picked beans, we picked tomatoes, and we picked potatoes.

We came away with nice clothes for, clothing for school and so forth, that we bought. But interesting enough, and unlike Sarasota, it was a fully integrated town. So imagine the five brothers walking—well, the four brothers, walking to a drug store, liquor drug store at the time, and we walked in and of course we walked around looking at magazines and so forth and wondering, “Are they watching us?” And finally we looked over at the counter, the soda fountain counter, and said “What if?” Then finally the oldest brother, Jetson, went over, sat and the rest of us kind of stood, pretending to be looking around. And the clerks came over and said, “Okay, what are you guys gonna have?” And my brother said, “A strawberry sundae” and then the other three of us sat down quickly and he said, “What are you gonna have?” Strawberry sundae. And he





went back to fix the strawberry sundae and he came back and he came back and he said, “Okay, what are you two guys gonna have? Strawberry sundae’s, don’t tell me.” And we did and from that time on we had strawberry sundaes. We went to the hardware store to get BB’s for our BB guns and we went to the movie. No one did anything but smile. And I finally told my dad two weeks later, I said, “Dad, drop me off downtown at twelve o’clock.” He said, “Why?” I said, “I just want to walk around some.” He said, “You want to go by yourself?” I said, “Yes.” So I went out by myself and it was just nothing but smiles and just pleasant treatment, large world. At Coast Federal, my secretary was Grace Bergen and finally as we had a lull in the traffic one day I said to her, “Grace, where are you from?” She said, “You probably never heard of the place.” I said, “Where is it?” She said, “It’s in Pennsylvania.” I said, “Near the Susquehanna River?” She said, “Yes!” I said, “What’d you do there?” She said, “My grandfather had a hardware store.” I said, “Across the street from the movies?” She said, “Yeah, but how would you know?” I said, “I bought BB’s from your grandfather’s store.”

	O:	Wow.



	H:	Small world, small world. Now, how would God take me and put me Milton, Pennsylvania and send me a secretary who was born and raised in Milton, north of Pennsylvania, to Sarasota, Florida. I don’t try to explain it; I just know it happened.

	O:	Amazing.



	H:	I just felt great about it because they were loving, loving people and I really didn’t want to leave. My dad said, “Oh no, it snows up here in and we certainly can't





	stay in Milton when it snows.” So we came back to Sarasota. O:	You would go there, what, during the summers, did you say?

	H:	As soon as school was out, late May, we’d hop on the car and we’d head to Milton, Pennsylvania.

	O:	How old were you then? H:	Nine.

	O:	Nine?



	H:	Mh-hm.



	O:	Nine and you would go and work.



	H:	Yes, and plus when coming from a poverty stricken background is you learn to work, parents teach you to work with your hands. And a lot of folk didn’t believe the amount of bushels of beans that I could pick, bushels of tomatoes, bags of potatoes. The bags were always too heavy that we couldn’t lift them so once we filled a bag, we waived to our dad and he’d come over and he’d stand them up, because you had to stand them up in a row. But it worked and there’s nothing wrong with learning hard work. I have never been out of a job since I’ve been old enough to work. I didn’t ask Coast Federal for job, the president called me and offered the job to me. I didn’t become office manager at the Rent-it-All, the owner called me and asked me would I consider it. I’ve worked at Sara Bay Country Club and I had never cooked in my life, but my dad’s philosophy was, “If another human being can do it, you can do it, just tell him to show you what he wants done.” And I learned to do short orders, I learned how to do food decoration at the Sara Bay Country Club. And I didn’t know how good I had become at doing





that–I’m not being boastful–I’m just saying how good God has been to me work wise. Being manager of the Longboat Key Club, Black man, Longbow Key Club. They called me and he said, “I understand that you can do food decoration.” I said, “Well, some.” He said, “Well, we have a lady here who have two hams and two turkeys and she want them decorated and with a Christmas background, Christmas setting.” I said, “Okay, when would you like to have them done?” He said, “Well, when can you do them?” I said, “Wednesday.” I came by and it took me all of forty-five minutes and I’m embarrassed to tell you what he paid me [Laughter]. And I wish my daddy could have been there to see me receive that kind of money.

	O:	For decorating.



	H:	Forty-five minutes of having fun and I enjoyed that. The only reason I didn’t take the job, he offered me the job, the only reason I didn’t take it it’s a job that’s a split shift. You have to work during the day and then parties at night you have to work. I said no, I want to be with my kids.

	O:	Tell me about coming back from Pennsylvania. So you’d go there for the summer at age nine and then come back to Sarasota to go to school, where you lived.

And that was the Overtown area at Delson.



	H:	Delson’s Quarters.



	O:	Right, so yeah, how did you reconcile this experience in Pennsylvania— H:	With Sarasota?

	O:	With Sarasota, yeah.



	H:	It never met. I mean Pennsylvania was Pennsylvania. We knew it was totally





integrated, but we knew what to expect once we arrived back to Sarasota.



	O:	Share with me some descriptions of what segregation then was like when you were coming up.

	H:	I don’t any way to say this, but there’s one thing I remember I wet my pants in the post office in Sarasota.

	O:	Okay, because you could not go to the restroom.



	H:	Didn’t have anywhere to go. And to think about a place that I thought would be a strange place to be, they welcomed us with open arms. But what was almost forgivable was the environment of Overtown. Overtown was just a great place to live. Sure it was a wooden building; it was a tin roof. We had Mr. Delson who would come by and our rent, if you can believe this, our rent was seven dollars a week. Seven dollars a week and there was occasions when he came in to collect the rent and he would see mother, one female, with five children and he’d say, “Keep the rent, take care of those children.” And the Salvation Army was active during that time and the Salvation Army came by once. And you know, we were proud people, now the Salvation the came to our house and knocked on the door and asked my mother if we needed food, she said “No, the people on the street is in worse shape than we are.” But I remember the Salvation Army and you talking about some hate treatments in Newtown, when I brought the first Salvation Army kettle to ring at Osprey in front of Seventh, Bill Jackson didn’t like it [Laughter], Ed James didn’t like it [Laughter].

	O:	Really?



	H:	Jetson Grimes didn’t like it and Jetson was my best friend. They just couldn’t





understand me bell ringing. And what I knew that they didn’t know, that the bulk of what was being given out was given to us. But they said no, he stands out and it was cold and raining one year and I was out bell ringing. The first year we did it, we came in number two for Sarasota.

	O:	Contributions.



	H:	Now, I know everyone said, why in the world would you give that kind of money to—I said the children win. I’m trying to win; the children are gonna win. Now, I never beat them again. I never came in number two and I said to myself, well, that’s just great for the children that they’ve made certain that this little Black organization will never beat them out. I said, well that’s great for the children and that was my feeling with it.

	O:	Tell me more about Overtown and the business that were Overtown and did you shop in them and what was a Saturday or what was a day like? On a weekend, say?

	H:	We always shopped on Saturdays, where we shopped? Probably didn’t mention the fact that we had three stores. We had Mr. Cheney’s store, we had Mr.

Chapman’s store, we had Mr. Horn’s store. Now, business Overtown adjusted to the income of Overtown. You could buy a half a link of sausage, not the whole link, it was not mandatory that you do a whole link. There was no electric stoves, there was no gas stove, we had kerosene stove. Everyone had a gallon jug, but they afforded you the opportunity to buy half a gallon, if that’s what all you had. So they kind of came to us in that. And the other thing too, most of us shop because most families had jobs. If you were over town you had kind of a first pick





on that job.



	O:	What kind of jobs?



	H:	I like starting at the top with this one. Mr. John Henry Ringling, North butler and chauffeur was Donald T. Jones from Overtown. When they made the movie, “The Greatest Show On Earth,” Mr. John Ringling North said to Donald T. Jones, “This week don’t come to work for me. Go to work for—” His names gonna drop for a minute, I don't know if I—

	O:	The movie producer?



	H:	The movie producer of “The Greatest Show On Earth.” O:	Mh-hm.

	H:	He went to work that week, his name just popping in and popping out. O:	I’ll Google it.

	H:	Cecil B. DeMille. O:	Oh! [Laughter]

	H:	Cecil B. DeMille. It drops but it comes back. O:	We should’ve known that!

	H:	Cecil B. DeMille [Laughter]. Can you imagine a Black man in that environment? I mean, he and Mr. North had great conversation. But to be with Cecil B. DeMille for a whole week.

	O:	Wow.



	H:	To me he was the most interesting—second interesting man Overtown. O:	What did Mr. Jones—?

	H:	What did he do? Strange enough, he wasn’t that knowledgeable about things,





but I said next to education, traveling will do it for you. He traveled with Mr. North, he traveled. He loved him. He met Donald T. Jones in a drug store in Connecticut. And guess what he was doing that attracted him to him?

	O:	What?



	H:	It’s an attribute that young, Black men use to have and they don’t have anymore. He was whistling. To be attractive to a female years ago, Black men will whistle. They’d whistle like birds some times, they’d whistle songs that were popular and so forth. But I found out at Rent-It-All that they don’t whistle. And I came in one morning working, I was whistling a theme from “Cats,” with Barbara Streisand, I love music. And they said, “Did you hear what Wade’s whistling?” And the boss said, “Yeah, that’s the theme from ‘Cats.’” “But how does he know that?” You know, in other words, BB King is what I’m supposed to be whistling, Motown is what I’m supposed to be—but I love music.

	O:	Can you do that whistle now? Do you still remember? H:	Yeah. Yeah.

	O:	Can you try?



	H:	This is gonna hard now. Okay, it’s gonna be difficult now. [hums] I can’t whistle now, but I can whistle it, just probably the environment that won’t let me.

	O:	Okay.



	H:	But the thing that stunned them is, why would a Black man know that song? I know a theme from “Showboat,” I enjoyed that one and that was one other that was my favorite. It was Mary Lanza sang in it—I’m sorry.

	O:	I’m trying to figure, how did you develop this appreciation for music and the arts





and plays, theater?



H:  You know how many times my dad’s been asked that? “You sure he like’s that kind of music?” He’d say yeah. And you really want to be fluent, I love Country Westerns.

O:   Okay.



H:   And I learned that when I was nine years old too.



	O:	So yeah, how did you learn it? How did you develop a love for it?



	H:	I spent one summer in Winter Haven with my dad, he was working in the grove and I was home alone. But he had a combination record player, he could play the records and he could play the radio. And I sat there all day listening to the radio and for whatever reason it grows on you after a while. I mean it didn’t kind of, you just start liking certain ones. And so I started enjoying Country Western music.

And the neighbors would say, they called my dad Mr. Wade, not Mr. Harvin, “Mr. Wade, why does that boy of yours listen to that station?” My dad would simply say, “Because he likes the music.” “But he can’t like that music.” “Yes he can, he likes that music.” So Tennessee Ernie Ford and Little Jimmy Dickens, which you may or may not have heard of. I started listening to them, I just loved it. I just loved it. So as I grew up and after a while my dad would turn the radio in the car and he’d say, “Leave it on, Junior likes to listen to that.” But he made space for me.

	O:	To enjoy it.



	H:	Yeah, to enjoy.



	O:	Well, back to your life in Overtown. So where were we? We were at—





	H:	We were talking about groceries, grocery shopping and how did we move around there.

	O:	Yes.



	H:	The other thing too is someone mentioned about the fact that we had the film and movie. So Newtown had—and the project had to come Overtown to see the movie.

	O:	What movie theater was that? H:	The Ace Theater.

	O:	Why you say it like that? H:	The Ace Theater.

	O:	[Laughter]



	H:	Something happened to me then. O:	What?

	H:	Well, first kiss was the Ace Theater. It’s just some things happened to me at the Ace Theater. And you can say that Jetson and he’ll smile too [Laughter]. It was the Ace Theater, it was part of growing up. The other thing is there’s a drug store Overtown that was owned by a Mr. Manuel who was Cuban I believe and his son George Horrigonas took it after he retired. And George took an interest in us, little boys, kids growing up. And he’d watch you and he’d ask about certain things. He’d never ask you, how old are you? He’d ask about certain things and he say, sometimes he’d say, “Okay, well I’ll talk to you about that later.” But he took the responsibility on himself to talk to us and he knew some of us who came in and was never with a man. And he took it on himself—I just think that’s





wonderful.



	O:	Is that right.



	H:	We loved him and it’s another small world, his daughter was ahead of—what was it? Oh let me think, I think it was across the street from me. Anyway, her name was Eliana, but when I kept looking at her one day and I said she reminds me of someone and who does she remind me of? I said, “Do you have any relatives in town?” She said, “Well, my dad and mom and my brothers, but my dad has passed.” And I said, “What was your dad’s name?” She said, “George Horrigonas.” And some how when someone has done something for me when I couldn’t do for myself I find a way to pay it back; if it was nothing but a I’ll bring you a lunch today. But we became good friends and I kept trying to describe her to my wife and she’d say, “Well, when am I gonna met Eliana?” And I said—we were at a game, one of my son’s games at Riverview one night and I see this face across on the other side. She gets up at half time and comes over and say, “I thought that was you Mr. Harvin and this must be your wife.” But the attachment, I mean, I don’t think she was bothered then but I think George feeling for that community Overtown. And It wasn’t just my family, it was every family. Every family, he found some way to do something for you, but it was just weird. That was my second number one spot, but my first number one spot was a place that was called “The Smoke Shop” that Mr. Taylor said that his family wouldn’t let him go, he couldn’t go up there. They always had a little game going on in the back room or something. But the thing that I enjoyed most was that they always played great music. They played great music and I just stayed there and





four of the best singers Overtown– I’ll make a point that it’s normally females but it was not, that I believe. You had a kid named Sammy Hamilton, he could sing anything. You had a guy named Arthur Lee Washington, he could sing “You’ll Never Walk Alone” and stop the world from spinning. And then you had Johnny Cherry, Lawrence Cherry, Francis Cherry’s husband, one of those brothers.

Johnny could just sing. I mean, he could sing it all. The first song I heard him sing, I was in third grade, it was “South of the Border Down Mexico Way.” We didn’t sing that very often, but Johnny could sing it and everything just stood still. But these were people who you would see walking up and down Central Avenue and and Sammy was just free with his, he would sing it no matter where he was. I was told that when he was at Memorial Hospital and he would sing as he was cleaning rooms and someone complained about that, and it wasn’t a White person who was complaining. And my boss was administrative assistant and they came to him with the complaint. And he said, “Okay I’ll talk to him, I’ll talk to him.” He said, “By the way, send him into my office I just want to talk to him about this.” He came in and he said, “Now they’re complaining about your singing as you’re doing your job. I want you to do me a favor, just sing anything you want, sing “Mary Had a Little Lamb.” Sing, sing, I just want to hear you sing.” And when Sammy finished singing, he said, “Go get that person that came in with that complaint.” And he said to the person, “You ought to be paying him. Sammy can sing as long as he wants to, whenever he wants to as long as he’s not real loud with it.” But he was just that great a singer and at Christmas that smoke shop would set the tone for Overtown. It was just like they would start it, they would tell





you when it’s time to start celebrating Christmas. Not church, but the smoke shop. And they would always start with The Drifters “I’m Dreaming of a White Christmas.” They said that everybody loves Clyde McPhatter there’s a tenor part, that high tenor part, yeah, yeah, there’s nothing like that.

	O:	Because they would play this music and it would waft through the air, through the whole community.

	H:	The whole community said stop, it’s time for us to start celebrating Christmas. O:	How did you decorate?

	H:	Poorly. Because we didn’t have money to decorate. We had some, but nothing like we had in Newtown. Newtown had a lot of great decoration it just went over the past year. The project had little, but Overtown was the place to be for Christmas time. It was just great.

	O:	What was the fare, the cuisine? What were y’all eating throughout this period and what were people cooking.

	H:	During Christmas time? O:	Whenever. Anytime.

	H:	We didn’t have but three restaurants that would cook Southern style. I mean, every now and then we’d find one who do, as a special, some chitterlings.

	O:	That’s Southern.



	H:	I know, but wanted to clean them? [Laughter] That’s why. But smothered pork chops, oxtail, stew beef and the dinners always included lima beans and collard greens. And I found that I was in college in Jacksonville, one of the greatest restaurants on Esther Street, they always had collard greens and lima beans.





And I wondered about that but I remember my dad saying this story when he was a young kid working in Jacksonville, that you would get a bowl of beans for a quarter, a corn bread and a slice of ham hock. And he said, and believe me Junior, that’ll take you overnight. That’s when you’re just trying to get to the next day, it’s not we’re buying for the whole winter. But that was it. It was the pastors and so forth were great ones Overtown, they were great ones. Dr. Hughes is probably one of the greatest ones that came to the Overtown area.

	O:	What church?



	H:	That Bethlehem Baptist. Penn Chapel had Reverend Mac, loud, almost as loud as some Baptist preachers. But Methodist always kind of toned down. But it was a difficult thing for me to understand when I started school first grade as why was the Cherry’s going to a different church. I didn’t quite get that. I said, we’re all going to church aren’t we? Yeah, but they don’t go to Bethlehem, they go Payne Chapel and I really didn’t understand that one. I really didn’t because to me, church was just church.

	O:	The Baptist versus what? A.M.E.? H:	Yeah, A.M.E.

	O:	Okay. The discipline, the ritual, I suppose.



	H:	Well, my youngest brother’s daughter is a pastor with A.M.E. in Palm Beach and I went down and of course I went to her church. And she was a little bit concerned that if I were sit in the pulpit because we don’t usually do that. I said no, you know. I believe we are not what the Bible says, but then god expects you to treat everyone as you wish you’d been treated. So I sat in the pulpit with her,





now, she didn’t ask me to preach, because we know what we believe there is a little bit different. But some of the things, you have to use common sense with it, what would God do? What would Jesus do? And I try to steer on that trail but I haven’t had any say, oh that’s wrong the way you doing it.

O:  What were the major institutions, would you say, in the Black community of Overtown, Newtown. What were those major institutions? Maybe it was the church and the school, from what I’m gathering, maybe.

	H:	Newtown had a strong hold on the secret orders. I became an Elk when I came out of college and folk were asking me, “Well Wade Harvin how did you pick the Elk?” I said, “I went up those stairs and I saw the men dancing and having fun and they were bending their elbows.” And I said, “You know something, I think this is where I belong.” Now it may change after a while but right now I’m going with Elks. And of course, a lot of us young guys went in and Bill Jackson was an Elk. Ed James’ grandfather was an elk—Chapmans, Cliff. Did you know Clifton Chapman, Jr.?

	O:	That name sounds familiar.



	H:	Oh, thank God you didn’t meet him [Laughter]. O:	Why?

	H:	Now, I’m not telling tales behind his back, I would tell this if he was here.



Recalling the president sat me down and said, “Mr. Harvin.” I said, “Yes sir.” He said, “I understand you’re from Sarasota.” I said, “Yes I am.” He said, “We’re happy to have you here, but I feel I should say this to you.” He says, “This is your first day, if you came here to be in any form like Clifford Chapman, Jr. pack up





and go back to Sarasota now. Because I promise you, I’ll send you back.” What he did was so terrible that his mother and father offered to pay for the damage. They said, “No, we’ll pay the damage, It’s worth it to keep our sanity to get your son away from this college.” And that’s the kind of guy he was. Now, what he had was just a crazy zeal for life. Thing’s that the rest of us would say, oh, that was exciting enough, he’d take it another step. And the president said, “I just can’t have him here” [Laughter]. I can’t have him here. Now you’d have to know him to— anyone else who really knew him would say, the president was right, he’s gonna do something crazy.

	O:	Can you give us an example?



	H:	Crazy for him was to go into the short hand teacher, with you know the tapes and so forth, and he took some of the crazies blues music and put on it. Then the next day that she opened the class and said, “Be quiet we have a lot to cover today.” And she turn that on and there was Clifford Chapman singing. And I can’t tell you exactly the song he was singing but she couldn’t gain control over the class for the rest of the day.

	O:	[Laughter] I see.



	H:	He was one of those guys.



	O:	You were talking about clubs. There was the Elk’s Club, but name some of the others and what did the Elk’s do?

	H:	We had fun.



	O:	Okay [Laughter]. So it was basically— it was a social club.



	H:	It was a social club. Club Charmettes was probably the strongest ladies’ club





here. They had Tuberculosis clubs, so forth. But it was Club Charmettes and the Elk.

	O:	Would they just have parties every month? Would they travel?



	H:	Well strange enough, Bill Jackson, Flick, was the wishful master of the Elks. And he came and when he came and he said, we will visit a church every month.

Some church, we’re gonna how show that we’re not what other folk think we are but we’re sensitive we realize that there is a God and we did that. Went to Bradenton and Sarasota. So we did try to give the correct image, but we did and we helped some folk.

	O:	With contributions of money?



	H:	Contributions. You know, if we knew someone was in trouble, someone who maybe passed and couldn’t make the fee for funerals and so forth. We tried to help in that area. But we did some things, we helped the Little League baseball team, football team and so forth. We tried to be really very visible in the community. Club Charmettes I think just had their people that they would kind of social with. You had to be a certain position and so forth for them. But no, we tried to change that.

	O:	Talk about the Negro Baseball League. There was a team that came through here. Or tell me your experience with the Negro Baseball.

	H:	My grandaddy was the manger and he lived here he was manager of the Central Hotel in Overtown, Old Central. But what he did, he always loved baseball, and I think he probably tried in some other cities and it didn’t quite work for him so he landed in Sarasota. We had some guys who, if they had been of a different race,





they would have been playing. Mr. Suarez, different color he would’ve been in the majors. The “Ice Man” Martin, I think he’s a little bit older for you to know, but he was a great baseball player. He was like one of the guys who could clown with the ball and they’d throw a glove up and meet the ball and somehow trap it. He could do all those crazy things. I mean, he had a truck that he would pull into Grove Street and he’d put it in neutral, take the emergency brake off, get out of the truck and get on the back of the truck and take ice off as he was taking them to the houses and never hit nothing yet.

	O:	Okay.



	H:	But he was just that nutty on the baseball field too. So folk came to see him. I was told by a White gentleman that said in that day that we had those great players like that, if they did something and they were in jail on Sunday’s when they were supposed to be playing, Boss boy told him you gotta let Martin out, or you gotta let Suarez out because we got a baseball game. We got money on this game. So they let them out to play the game and then bring them back in afterward.

	O:	Was Buck O’Neil around at that time?



H:  God, yeah. I’m saying it this way because my aunt loved Buck. O:  Love like romantic love?

H:  No, but they had a crazy relationship because my aunt was kind of wild, wild. But everyone loved her and Buck O’Neil just loved her. And when he’d come to town he’d visit certain people, but she was the one that he always came to see.

O:   He was a handsome guy too.





	H:	Oh he—yeah [Laughter], accounting on where you looked. And that’s all the ladies just loved him, but he’s a very friendly man too. One of the things too I missed is that in the community Overtown, the men would take time in the community. If you’re a female with a son or a daughter, no male, they just made to step in and they’d come out there. If we were doing softball or racing, they’d come out and join. They took a part as if they said that there’s a need there and I’m going to address the need. There’s no man, but I’ll do it. And those are the kind of things to me just builds to help the environment. Just helping.

	O:	How did you meet your wife?



	H:	[Laughter] I don’t know if she wants me telling. Strangely my wife knew I loved dating other girls.

	O:	Besides her?



	H:	Well—Okay, I should back out of this while it’s still safe. But no, my mother had a philosophy that she believed that each of us boys ought to date more than one girl. Now her feelings were, and I accepted once I found out it was okay with her, she said because when they get married they won’t still be out there still be out there floating around, they will have dated other girls. So they should be quiet husbands, so to speak. But my wife talked to one of my girlfriends, because the other girl I was dating, she didn’t like and she kept telling this girl that if I could ever do anything for you let me know. Okay. And finally when this whole thing blew over and I found myself, I really do love my wife better than I do with the other one’s that I’m dating. And the last thing was, my mother loved my wife. I think she saw a thing with mother when she came over and asked her once, “If





Wade and I get married, what are some of his favorite foods?” Mother said, “A girl thinking like that, she’s gotta really be the right one for you.” And it went from there, it went from there.

	O:	What’s here name? H:	What was?

	O:	Your wife’s name, the woman you married?



	H:	Oh, Carlene. Carlene Jean. And her mother just thought that I was maybe not the right guy for her so she did the one thing that solved the problem for all of us, she sent my wife one summer to stay in Detroit with her daddy for the whole summer. And any doubt that I had about how I felt about that lady, when she got back to Sarasota, I said she’ll never send my wife anywhere else. Not my girlfriend [Laughter]. This is marrying material here. Never and she has never been back to Detroit like that, never for a whole summer away from me. No way, no way.

	O:	[Laughter]



	H:	And to have really let me know it was the right person, my best friend Jetson Grimes was my best man. So it was just soft as far as I was concerned and it’s been fifty-two years.

	O:	Now, how did you make a living to support this family? I mean, how did you get to Coast Bank? I know that there probably were some jobs.

	H:	Yes, in between I was also the first Black insurance salesman for Independent Life Insurance Company in this area. I didn’t ask them, they asked me. What I’m saying is things have just been as if God has set steps on a ladder, all I had to do was live it. And after I worked at Independent Life Insurance Company—





	O:	Door to doors?



	H:	Yeah.



	O:	You would go door to doors. Explain how that worked?



	H:	Okay, it was one of the superintendents who had been on the ground for years and years and we knew him, he knew us and he knew everyone Overtown. And he started telling folk that they were interested in me and some of the people called me. Said well, “I understand that Mr. Ford worked for Independent, he’s been out here for years, he’s a good man, it’s a good company. You ought to consider them.” And yeah and it didn’t bother me because I was working, I was doing fine. But he came back with one of his guys and sat down and talked to me and told me what they could do; you’re gonna be the first Black. And we thought about this a long time before and I just said to myself, okay, you want to talk to me about a job. The main thing you need to talk to me about it how much am I gonna make. And they told me what I can make and I said well that sounds pretty good against what I’m making now. But then when Bill Overton, the president of Coast Federal called me and offered me whatever my average sale had been for the last three years, he said, “I’ll start you at that.” And I was holding on to the chair just to keep from falling out of it, but I controlled myself long enough to say well, that sounds good, that sounds good. But I never make a decision without talking it over with my wife. And he said, “Okay, well talk to her and let me know. Can you let me know in the next couple days?” I’m saying, “Well I know now. But yeah a couple of days I’ll reach a decision.” So I left and I stood up and jumped and clicked my heels together I walked down Main Street. I walked all the way.





	O:	Were you the first African American bank manager? H:	Yes.

	O:	You said that. What was that like being the first? I mean did customers come or did they stop?

	H:	Yeah some looked at me a little strange. Because I had to go through the training, it made it look like all of this was legit. I went through the training. I went through teller training and I went through saving counselor training and finally they said, “Okay let’s try it.” And they threw me out in the office by myself. And I wasn't really nervous about it because the first office was not that large but when they put me in the fifth largest office out of thirty-seven, I said, “Lord this is for real. This is for real.” Because I knew all the big accounts were not the same color as I. But I had one White came to me and said, “You know they told me you were coming. Some folks had some thoughts about you coming over. You know what I told them Mr. Harvin? I said if they send him over to the fifth largest office of a billion-dollar corporation, he must know how to count” [Laughter]. And we laughed about that but it went from there and they told the staff that I had inherited. “If you ever say anything to make him feel in any way unease,” because some had voiced opinions that we rarely keep the one that we have.

And they said, “You don't have any choice in this matter.” That’s what the director of Coastal Federal had said, “Wade Harvin is gonna be your next branch manager.” And that was it.

	O:	That was it.



	H:	That was it.





	O:	Could you remember some of the prominent families who had holdings in the bank accounts?

	H:	Yeah but even at this late date– O:	Can’t remember.

	H:	No I can remember. O:	Oh okay shouldn’t say.

	H:	But let me tell you this. I had my office audited once. It was audited over break as scheduled but this particular time, when you finished the head of the auditing department always would come over in the office and sit down and talk to you about what–he said to me, he said, “Harvin you know I haven’t found a person that work for you that doesn't like you. I know that’s because if there’s opposing direction between the two of you, you better feel like you like him. But” he said, “I noticed something different and it’s in the middle summer.” He said, “You have withdrawal slips that’s signed that’s over $400,000.” I said, “Yes, I know.” He said, “But you understand that they’re signed?” I said, “Yes.” Because a number of my folk would go to Europe in the summer and they would be gone. So what happen if your CD drops while you’re there? Because if you don't tell me what to do with it, I assume that you want me to put it in a regular passbook until you come back. I can put it in a passbook without your authorization but I can't move it into a CD, not that sizeable money. So they had left those signed withdrawal slips with me. And he said, “Now we know you don't think that way but if you wanted to you could walk away with close to half a million dollars.” And when he said that I started laughing. He said, “Now I know you hadn’t thought about that.”





He said, “Now let’s tear those up. I trust you but let’s tear them up, so that if something happened your mind went a little awry, we know nothing could happen to them.” That’s the kind of trust that they had in me and Mr. Overton never told me no about anything. And he would take me to lunch every now and then so that folk would see, if he’s eating lunch with the president he must be all right.

But that’s kind of the relationship we had.



	O:	Let’s talk about, before we end, Janie Poe Goodwin. You mentioned what a wonderful mathematician she was.

	H:	She’s the best.



	O:	And then when you’d go over there, you would get lessons in math that I’m sure would translate to lessons in life.

	H:	That’s exactly. And I didn't really get the total picture of what she was doing until later but that’s exactly what she was doing, getting me prepared not for business college, not for four-year college, she was getting me prepared for life. What people expect of you. And once a person recommends you or give that word about you or something, try to live up to that. I had my little devilish moments, and most of the time I just tried to humor folk and some of that was a little bit not where it should have been. But she tried make me understand that everything is important. Now when folk put their trust in you. I felt good the first three or four loans for homes that I got at that time, maybe $70000 or $80000. But I look at some folk who’ve sat at my desk and I said, “You know I never would have guessed that they would have trusted me.” Because you have to tell me what your income is and so you have to tell me a lot of things you normally wouldn't





tell. But when I saw those people sitting at my desk, I said, “Lord they got my trust.” I didn't discuss, and a lot of them thought I would discuss it with Carlene, and she said, “Don't ask me anything because he don't tell me anything. Don’t tell me nothing.” So that’s where I was and I thank God for the people who he sent in my office and then even today we’re still friends.

	O:	Wow. You know you painted Overtown in such idyllic ways, it makes me wish I had spent some time.

	H:	It was a great place. I promise to stop after this one. There was a young man Overtown and my sister just loved him, his name was Anthony Williams. And I said, “Well sister he’s not that good looking. There’s some other guys that look better than Anthony.” And she would just sit at the kitchen window and Anthony would pass and she would just be in a world. Then almost thirty years later, Anthony moved to the North and he moved back to Sarasota and he walked into church one night that I was speaking. When he walked through the door I knew Anthony then and I knew why my sister was so crazy in love with him. I very seldom call a man handsome, not even Denzel Washington, but Anthony Williams was just something. He was just a tall, fair-skinned, hair just in place. I said, “Why would God make him look like that? He could have gave it to me” [Laughter]. But any rate that’s the kind of guy was walking around Overtown. It was Sammy Hamilton’s singing that didn't cost you anything. Drug store manager gave you advice and didn't know you from Adam. I mean we just had luxuries over there.

	O:	Did you go to the beach like what Robert Taylor was describing? Did you go to





Siesta?



	H:	I went to Lido.



	O:	Oh you could go to Lido?



	H:	And my present that day—well doing that you sit in a circle. I watch your back, you watch my back. And I don't know if you know Para Moore I wouldn't be sitting here if she hadn’t screamed.

	O:	What happened?



	H:	Kid had walked from here to that wall behind me and he had a rock about yey big and he threw it and she just said, “Look out.” After I turned to see what she was talking about. And she said, “Look out,” I just laid over her. The thing that startled me was not so much that he threw it but that he didn't run. I said, “Now I’m supposed to get up here and do something to this fella.” But the rule was you could not participate and meet violence with violence. And I wondered after that, I said, “How many times I’ve been at meetings in different areas of Sarasota and that kid was there. How many times.” And he didn’t it, he finally said, “You Ns go back to Newtown.” But that was it. He never run, he didn't look angry and he didn't look frightened and that kind of thing stayed with me still.

	O:	You participated in those marches and sit-ins? H:	Oh yes.

	O:	Oh we didn't talk about that part of your life, we have to. And who were the people involved? And it was through the NAACP?

	H:	NAACP, Neil Humphrey and of course friend Jetson, and my wife went with me one. She didn't go with me but she was with the other girls.





	O:	What happened? Where did you go? H:	Went to Lido.

	O:	In a car?



	H:	Oh yeah, went in a car. And that’s one of the reasons now I still don't go to Lido. O:	You don't go to Lido?

	H:	Just because of that memory. It’s because of that memory. I always think about it and I don't have to think about it if I don't go. If I don't go to Lido I don't have to think about one incident. It wasn't frightening other than the instructions that you were given, is that you can protect yourself only by ducking. You know it’s not, if you see him pick it up and get ready to throw and you have one close to you, you don't do that. It’s a non-violent movement and I’ll be perfectly frank with you, the first time I heard that thing, I said, “Not for me. Not for me.”

	O:	You know we always hear that you don't see Black people on the beach or you may not see them in restaurants in Sarasota in large number and all. And I’m beginning to wonder if it’s because of–

	H:	Some carry over.



	O:	Yes, some carry over from what happened in days of old. Because we know that many of the offspring of the folks who lived here and grew here, they left and didn't come back. And the remnant or people who are left remember those times like you. And you’re saying that you don't go to Lido anymore. Now there are new Blacks here that probably go out and about but they don't have that history like you do. And so those are the few that see probably around.

	H:	But something else will happen with them. I remember going out to St. Armands





Circle and there was a place over here on the right. When they first opened they had the go-go girls dance in the cage and so forth.

	O:	Dancing in the cage?



	H:	Well they were cages but these girls with the birthday suits on was shaking, doing the best they could. But we decided what if. So those of us–I know I’m not the greatest dancer in the world but I can dance pretty good–I started going. And I found they were happy to have us in there because we could show some new dances, we could show some new steps. And folk who really love dancing, when you see a guy can dance—This great dancer Fred Astaire, when he saw Michael Jackson do the slide, he said, “I don't care who he is, that’s a good dance.” You recognize that. So we weren't doing anything but dancing and maybe have a cocktail or something. But they welcomed us so I said, “Okay it’s changing.” Now I’m not gonna get on my knees and ask God to stop folk from killing me and he said no all they doing is watching you dance. So I went until after I was married. What I’m saying is it changed but I still don't go on the beach.

	O:	Still don't go on the beach. What about music groups that came through here? Did you go to any of the jukes where they performed? Do you remember any?

	H:	Yeah, I loved to dance.



	O:	That’s what brought that question up.



	H:	Now, James Brown used to date a girl in my class, Dorothy Moultrie. Do you know Smokey? You don't know Smokey, oh okay maybe a little bit older than you.

	O:	Smokey Robinson?





	H:	No, not Smokey Robinson. Smokey who was Dorothy Moultrie who James Brown loved in our class and he’d come every weekend and because he would be over Johnny Simpson. Johnny Simpson just had some famous people to stop by.

	O:	What’s Johnny Simpson? I heard that name throughout my young years.



	H:	Okay Johnny Simpson had the bar right across 301 over on the left side. Do you know Carnegie Edit? They call it Dock Tarrie. Okay well Johnny Simpson had it before then so Ike and Tina Turner used to play there. They’d come in and stay for a month. Jimmy Reed and the big guy—

	O:	B.B. King?



	H:	B.B. King. B.B. King he loved Johnny Simpson and these folk were like household names. The reason I know about it–I wasn't old enough but I was Johnny Simpson’s paperboy. So I get a chance to get all the scoop on that when I get to collect my paper route money. But yeah he was there and there was one other group that used to come. Oh no at the Palms, Palms of Bradenton, okay what’s the Black guy that used to sing “Hi de, hi de, hi de, ho?”

	O:	Cab Calloway.



	H:	Yeah. Okay you want to integrate a place? Bring good music. The Palms was for Black folk, we though Black folk owned that. But when Cab Calloway came to the Palms it was integrated. In fact, they were there first. You couldn't get a good seat when Cab Calloway was there. But anyone who played good music, they would come and sing. Music sometimes can solve your problems. Johnny Simpson also had the Baseball Park as you head down Twenty-seventh, Dr.





Martin Luther King Way. It was a junk yard for cars. Well all of that was a parking lot. So everybody came to there, anyone who loved to dance. Usually the places I’d hang out was the places I could dance.

O:  What kind of dances did you do? Did you remember the names of them? Lindy Hop? [Laughter]

H:  Mashed potatoes. Did you see the movie James Brown? Okay. My brother in Palm Beach was with his fiancé. She said, “See what he’s doing? My brother Wade Harvin can do that better than he’s doing it.” She said, “Oh he can't do that.” She said, “I’m telling you my brother can do that.”

O:   [Laughter] The mashed potatoes.



	H:	Yeah I mean it was a way you do it. If you do it like everybody else was doing it then you just doing the mashed potatoes.

	O:	Oh you had a special way you did it.



	H:	I didn't do nothing like nobody else, no. I didn't dress like nobody else. O:	How did you dress?

	H:	Whatever they weren't dressing in and I had a lot of my clothes tailored. O:	Was it colorful? Those suits that they tell us about.

	H:	I usually didn't wear suits. O:	What did you use?

	H:	I had a long sleeve with like three buttons on this way, the collar would be a larger and then I’d have some kind of ascot. So I wasn't looked like I dressed to dance, that’s what made folk watch me dance. I’m sure now.

	O:	[Laughter] Mr. Harvin.





	H:	Well that’s what I did.



O:  Mr. Harvin one more question. The celebration, talk about visioning for Newtown, what do you see? What does this community need to do to reinvent itself? To be self-sustaining?

	H:	Go back and get some of the things that we dropped. There are some folk in Galilee Cemetery would say, “But why did they drop this?” About thirty years ago, if I needed a step-ladder at ten o’clock on Saturday night, I could go to Chapman hardware and get a step-ladder. If I needed to touch up some paint.

	O:	They were open?



	H:	They were open. We gave up things that were really good for us. So now we have to drive out. We had three, four cleaners, dry cleaners. I have to drive to Main Street to put my clothes in the cleaners, my suits.

	O:	So there’s a need for more entrepreneurship?



	H:	Yes, and I can understand the reason why is because we haven’t told the children the story well enough. I said, I think Jetson in the last conversation. Jetson was raised in a house that his mom who’s raising him was a midwife. His dad made cigars, he was of Cuban descent. They lived, one side of the house was for delivering of babies, another is where he made cigars. Now they had a higher environment as any other Blacks, in most cases higher than. If we told our children that a man made an extra good living in Newtown doing that out of his house, they say, “Well what he do?” He made cigars and he had his clientele.

Now Cubans always make the best cigars is all what I’ve heard. But you’ve got to pick up something that was doing it then and just bring it back now. You know





how the cleaners survived? Because they came to your house and knocked on your door. They said, “Pearson Cleaners” and you would give him a suit, a couple pair of pants or whatever. He’d say, “When do you want them back?” Pick up and deliver. You got to do something that’s gonna make the person feel I’m getting more than I’m buying. And until you do that, until you go back to that. It ain’t gonna happen.

	O:	And patronizing one another.



	H:	We’ll do it if you make it convenient. Think about what happens when you go get groceries now. You go to the Publix you get a cart and roll out. You could go to Jenkins’ Market, shop. “Mr. Jenkins, I won't be home until three o’clock, I know it’s 1:30 now. But have mine at my house at three o’clock.” It was brought to your house. You got to give him something and you got to make him feel what you’re giving him and he’ll come. Until it happens I’ll be driving two and one-half miles down Main Street to put my–

	O:	Clothes in cleaners, right. Would you like to add anything Mr. Harvin? It’s been such a wonderful experience listening to you talk.

	H:	No I’m just excited about just the thought of what’s on the table to be birthed and I think you got the right people. So as long as you head us in the right direction, we’ll follow. Okay?

	O:	Okay.



	H:	All right my dear. O:	Thank you.

	H:	Thank you.





[End of Interview]





	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 4, 2020