AAHP 381; Marshall; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 381 Robert “Teddy Bear” Marshall African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Maria Fuentes and A.J. Donaldson on May 30, 2015 1 hour, 7 minutes | 43 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 381

Interviewee: Robert “Teddy Bear” Marshall Interviewers: A.J. Donaldson and Maria Fuentes Date: May 30, 2015



	D:	Today’s date?



	F:	Ooh.



	D:	It’s okay.



	M:	31st?



	F:	The 30th.



D:  May 30th, 2015, Saturday. I’m A. J. Donaldson, along with Maria Fuentes, interviewing:

M:  Robert Mack Floyd Marshall. D:  Robert Mack Floyd Marshall. M:  A.k.a., “Teddy Bear.”

D:   A.k.a., “Teddy Bear.”



	F:	How do you spell “Mack”? M:	M-A-C-K.

D:  Okay. Well, we just want to start off by, you know, by getting an idea of—where are you from? Where were you born, originally? And give us some background with your parents.

	M:	I was born right here, right five hundred feet from the north gate of the Stephen Foster Memorial, by the late—both late—Leroy and Louise Marshall. She was Louise Scippio, but she became my dad’ wife, a Marshall. Right at the north gate in a little house, delivered by my Grandma Ollie that lived to be a hundred two years old. She delivered seven hundred and some-odd babies in this community





and town. So, mostly Black and some of the White was born here by my grandma. She was the midwife of this town.

	F:	How do you spell your mother’s name? M:	Louise. L-O-U-I-S-E, I think.

	F:	And what was her last name?



	M:	She was a Sippio. S-I-P-P-I-O. And my daddy’ name was Leroy Marshall Sr. F:	And your grandmother was a midwife?

	M:	Midwife. You know what that mean, don’t you? A lot of people don’t know what midwife mean, because they born in hospitals. I was born at my momma’ house.

	D:	Mmhm, I see, I see.



	M:	Most all us was. Ain’t none of us was born in hospital. We was all born in the country by my grandma.

	F:	And do you know who taught your grandmother about midwifery?



	M:	The good Lord. She was a gift. One of my grandmoms—I had another grandma on my daddy’s side. God gave everybody gifts around here to help peoples. She was a midwife. I forgot who she helped along—she used to work with Dr. Barnett. He used to be here by this big store. Right across here, Dr. Barnett’ store. She used to work with him, because back there was a long time ago, slavery days, days like; she was born, I think, 1800-something.

	D:	Oh, wow. Dr. Barnett was really popular around here? M:	That was before my time.

	D:	Before your time, okay.



	M:	Like I say, we didn’t get many doctors. We had home remedies.





	D:	Home remedies. That was another thing—oh, wow! And you mentioned all your brothers and sisters were born in here.

	M:	Midwife.



	D:	How many brother and sisters? M:	Nineteen.

	D:	Nineteen brothers and sisters?



	M:	Through my mom and dad. [Laughter] D:	All from—all midwife?

	M:	All midwife. But it was five miscarried. Something like that. I think it were five miscarried.

	D:	Of the nineteen, how many were brothers and sisters? M:	It’s twelve of us now. It’s six boys and six girls.

	D:	Six boys and six—okay.



	M:	In fact, I can’t quite remember but, where used to live at out in the country right where we moved from the gate, I did remember Grandmomma’ house burned down one night. Like, and two of my brothers got burned up. We couldn’t get them out. And back then, it was a party line. Phones? Like, phones? One phone, everybody eavesdrop on everybody’ phone. There ain’t like, it wasn’t no such thing as cell phones or nothing. It was just a party line, you called. So, if somebody wanted the phone, sometimes I had to get on the phone, say, “Can y’all hang up a minute and let me make a phone call?” But when our house burned down, with our phone, it killed all the lines, so I had to—some kind of way that night, God just—I say how He bless things. I went to bed fully-dressed. I





came out with everything but one off sock. When I jumped out the window. And I had to run from there all the way back to the north gate here. From way out there in the country, a mile or so, to the north gate to get help. To call by the fire department. When I run, I could hear the gas tank and all burning, look back and see the fire burning. But I had to run all the way.

	D:	And you knew your family—knowing your family was still in there? M:	Two of them was.

	D:	Two of them.



	M:	Because I went there when he was trying to pull them, we was trying to get them out. We snatched one out; we got burned. But then we had to hold my daddy from trying to get back in there to try to get his boys. And then, my grandpa was living then. Next day, they found them in the closet, like, in the room they was.

	F:	Was he okay? Was he okay?



	M:	No. It was these two. These two got burned up. D:	No. These were one of the two. The two that died. F:	Oh, wow! That’s—

	D:	So, at the time—what’s the county, was this in—? M:	This here.

	D:	This is here.



	M:	Right down the road.



	D:	Right down the road. Was it covered in the newspapers? Was it a pretty big deal?

	M:	No, it wasn’t no newspaper here then. It still ain’t no newspaper here.





	D:	No newspaper?



	M:	Not really.



	D:	No. okay.



	M:	It just Jasper News.



	D:	Just Jasper, oh.



	M:	And they have a little write-up in it about White Springs, little bit, but no, ain’t no newspaper here. It might have been one long years but it died, but I don’t think it never been really no newspaper here. No more than Lake City, and then Jasper don’t come out but once a week.

	F:	Okay. Did you guys have land out in the country?



	M:	Yeah, right there where we living at. My Grandma had a—we was on about five acres.

	F:	Okay.



	M:	We was out there on five acres, something like that. My grandmother was [inaudible 5:37], and she deeded this acre to my momma for us to live on.

	F:	How was your childhood growing up out there?



	M:	Rough! Rough. And all them kids and my daddy out doing pulpwood and construction. He helped built 75 and 10 when they came through out there, and they used to go all the way down to Titusville when they got started. I had to stay a week or so, that’s why I ended up kind of in construction too. I loved construction until I got hurt. But just a struggle. Especially, you got ten kids. You could catch the devil raising one. And back then with little cars they had transportation in, and then we’d get in, we go pull the deertongue. We had to pick





out our own berries. We picked berries, blueberries, go in the woods and find blueberries and stuff. We’d go out and hunt. We loved to hunt. We’d get most of our own meat. We mostly ate off the land and, like, when Granddad out in the country, he had his own hog and cow and stuff. And they planted their own tobacco and stuff. So we sharecropped with them, and they paid my daddy and them. We didn’t get paid. So with us having money, I ain’t had no money until I done got up and started making my own. You know, you get a nickel, dime, something back then, that was—back then, that was a lot of money! Used to go out pick up soda water bottles; they were five cent. The big one were ten cent. We walked the road, dirt roads, hunting roads, somebody throw a bottle at you. You find you a nickel. Go buy you two for a penny cookie. Get you a bottle, make you ten cookies. You in good shape. If you can come to town. It was very restricted to stay home.

	D:	Explain that. It’s very restricted to stay home?



	M:	You get your ass whipped. If you leave and you ain’t where you supposed to be, you get your ass whipped. It ain’t like this child abuse. Oh no, it was child a- killing! [Laughter].

	D:	So was it like community surveillance? Kind of like, people would know if you were not where you were supposed to be?

	M:	Oh anybody would whip you then. If you go out town and do bad, this man whip you and go tell your momma. Then you going get a double-whipping. Yeah.

Everybody was good, yeah. And you “ma’am” and “yes sir” everybody. And don’t go—if they come and tell you, tell your daddy you did something, sometime you





be innocent. Sometime they picked the wrong person. You be innocent. And you go tell your momma and daddy you didn’t. They say, “Oh, you saying them grown folk lying?” You can’t say “Yeah,” because you going get your ass whipped anyway. Then you going get another whipping, because somebody, “Oh, grown folks don’t lie.”

	D:	Wow, so it’s like double jeopardy.



M:  Yeah, it’s something like that. But that’s why our age bracket is different than the way the kids is now. ‘Cause now, nobody give a damn. The kids cuss everybody out. I don’t care if it’s on there, what I’m saying.

D:   No, no say whatever you like. There’s no censor.



	M:	These kids now. Nobody don’t want nobody hitting their children. That’s when— when it really changed on big children. [Inaudible 8:34] children, when they integrated the school, they didn’t want—. They had the Black teachers and the White teachers there. They didn’t want the White teachers to beat the Black kids, and they didn’t want any Black teacher to lay hand on a White kid.

	D:	That is absolutely fascinating.



	M:	And then, when they started that, then if a kid go to schoolhouse with a little scratch from beating on, like Momma and them used to use switches and belts. Kid going say you whipped them, and show them. Then they going call the police, and now they all come on that child abuse. But look at all the kids going to prison for not being child abuse, and getting killed up in the street, and shot at, because they stopped this whipping and stuff. But if they’d have kept it up, the kids wouldn’t be bad. These little kids will cuss you out now in the street, and I





mean, don’t care nothing about you. Just like now they playing all the rap music, and cussing all in front of everybody. Don’t care nothing. You couldn’t do that when we came up! You couldn’t even say liar. You couldn’t even say “dern” until you got up to fifteen. They say that was grown folk’ words. You was supposed to say you stole it. You come up, “You lying,” oh, that’s an ass whooping! You just cursed! Them grown folk words. Them higher teenager words. You still—like these little kids now? Man they’ll, they don’t care. That little, they cuss you out.

And they mommas brag on ‘em. “Look at my little kids cussing and laughing!” That ain’t good.

	F:	And then, while you were living out there, were the other people nearby? Or were you just isolated out in the country?

	M	We were isolated in a way. We was in a dead end road. It ain’t far from here. F:	Okay.

	M:	You might, if y’all want, later on we ride and look at some of it, take pictures. I’m just saying, I can tour y’all around that, and I can even show you some great spots on tours. I show you there some of the deertongue. This year, I picked a lot of deertongue right down here from where my house was. Of course, and I picked the palmetto berries. That’s where we pick palmetto berry. They take the palmetto berries for prostate cancer, for the cancer, for the people.

	F:	Okay, what kind of berries? M:	Palmetto. Saw Palmettos. F:	Okay.





	M:	I call them palmetto berries. Because I’m just real fast when I talk. Palmetto berries. But it’s saw palmettos. And back in the day, they was picking them berries, they were buying them from us for ten cent a pound. One day, I made a hundred thirty dollars.

	F:	Wow. Who would buy them?



	M:	But, now ten cent a pound. This year they was buying them berries for a dollar eighty cent a pound. Now just think, if I made a hundred thirty dollars for ten cent a pound, how much I would’ve made for a dollar and eighty cent?

	D:	That’s a lot of money. And how many pounds did you sell at the time, at the time you were selling them at ten cents?

	M:	It had to be thirteen hundred pounds. D:	Thirteen hundred pounds.

	M:	To get me a hundred thirty dollars. D:	So, yeah.

M:  So, that’s thirteen times 180. I’m talking about thousands of dollars. I’m talking about thousands of dollars. Two thousand dollars, something like that. Way up there in the money.

D:  Yeah, it’s up there. It’s up there. M:  For one day picking.

F:   Who buys them?



	M:	It’s a place in Jasper up there, but back then the man’ name used to be Vasco Hesser [11:51]. He used to buy all our ‘coon hides. Me and my daddy, we used to catch ‘coons. We had to do what we can. Hang these ‘coons out like Daniel





Boone, and then we scrape and salt them down, sell them. We sell the coon hides and stuff. Whatever it take for us to make money. Pick deertongue. We used to have to pick deertongue, it wasn’t but twenty-seven cent a pound, after it dry. And you got to take it home, pick all the trash out it, lay it out there in the grass, in the sun, let it dry. If it going to rain, then boy you get it up before it rained on it, pack it in the barn, keep it rolled over where it won’t—if you let it wet, it’ll moss on you. You got to tray it back up, and wait for two weeks to get enough to cover two or three big sacks, doing enough for us to make money.

	F:	How did you get to school from where you lived? M:	The bus.

	F:	The bus?



M:  My uncle Robert [inaudible 12:42]. Robert. He [inaudible 12:44] in—he, it was him, and the lady’ name Ms. Annette Roberts. They was two bus drivers here. And—

F:   And they would pick up everyone for the Carver school?



	M:	Yeah. We had the two buses running, and they just split up and come pick up all the kids and bring them to Carver school here.

F:   Okay.



	D:	Couple questions. What age was this when you were going to the Carver school?



About what year or age?



M:   I started there.



	D:	About how old were you? That’s what I’m asking. About how old were you?





	M:	I think I had to start when I was six, because I was born in August. And that’s in your age bracket. You would, if you—when school started, school already started when I become six. You got to be six then. So school done started when I turned six. So I had to wait that.

	D:	What year, about what year was this? M:	I was born in 1955.

	D:	[19]55.



	M:	So it might have been [19]60, [19]61. D:	Okay, okay. Okay.

	M:	Because I had graduated. I graduated [19]74. Okay then, let’s see. I graduated [19]74, and I missed one year. So, it was [19]61. I didn’t start until [19]62 because I missed a year. So it was about 1962. So I was right at seven. Because the way the school—because I was a late in the year, because you had to start late. It ain’t like it is now, these kids here go to school now at two years old. They got preschool, day school, night school, this school. But we had to wait and then on the fifth grade year, they hold me back a year. So that’s what made me miss one whole term, and I didn’t appreciate it. But my momma was a—totally Christian, totally Christian. Believed in nothing but God, and nothing but the Truth, and nothing but right. Nothing but right. Teach me everything right. I never seen her smoke. I don’t know if I ever heard her cuss. And every Sunday, she would lull her children up in arms, and tote us to church every Sunday. We had to go to church somewhere, walking; we either walk to church or somebody pick us up ‘til we get a ride. But we had to be in church every Sunday. Somewhere.





	F:	What church did you go to?



	M:	Still, I stayed a member; it’s Zion Temple Holiness church out in the country. Zion Temple of Holiness number one.

	F:	Can you repeat that?



	M:	Zion Temple Holiness number one.



	F:	Okay. And then, do you still go there now?



	M:	Yes. Still do. I go and cook whenever they need me to do something, and I visit and all. But for me, it’s a real church, trying to let Momma know. I just tend to, when they call my sister, my sister-in-law there, they call me to go out there to cook for them all the time.

	D:	Are there—we’ll get back to the Carver school. Were there A.M.E. Zion church in the area? A.M.E. Zion, A.M.E.?

	M:	Yeah, there’s one right— D:	There’s one.

	M:	Right down the road there.



	D:	Okay. Okay. I’m just trying to see where the most Blacks attended church. Was it your church, or what’s the popular church?

	M:	It’s something that’s came up with the church situation. We had Sweet Home— see, we got the country churches, and they got the city churches. We got the— out in the country, you had the Sweet Home. My granddaddy donated this land for that church, Sweet Home. And he donated land for the Zion Temple. My granddaddy, he was kind of a prominent man back then. He had his own mules and stuff, out tending his own farm. And back then, they had to get lots to plant





tobacco. You couldn’t just sell no planted tobacco. You had to have lots. So, he donated, but there was Zion Temple, Sweet Home, New Jerusalem—that was in the country. And then they had around here the AME, the Bottom, and—AME, the Bottom; Bugle.

	D:	AME, and Bottom.



	M:	Bottom. We called it “Bottom,” it’s—it ain’t Bottom. But we called it “Bottom” because it down in the hole deep, and they call it the Bottom church. That’s why we just say “the Bottom church.” But that was—back then, they just to go church, I was there the third Sunday. Sweet Home was the fourth Sunday. New Jerusalem was the second Sunday. And one more thing. And they used to go to each church once a week. We’d go this church, we’d go that church. But then, the church got to be, some churches it came to be like a money thing. Just like, back in the days, everybody died, they used to bury them on Sunday. But now, because they buried them on Sunday, somebody couldn’t never attending they church that Sunday because they got to go to the funeral. And so, they can’t collect money, and what you do here? You can’t collect money because you had a funeral for your church.

	D:	Yeah. So they start having the funerals on— M:	Saturday.

	D:	Hm. Hm. Now—



	M:	You ever heard that? D:	No. I just—

	M:	You thought about it? You think about it?





	D:	A couple things you said—three things you said during this interview, I guess, I hadn’t heard, is starting to click. The child abuse thing stood out a lot with the, like the disciplining of the White teacher and the Black students, and how integration affects that—and now, this is interesting. Because I could see how, if someone’s dying every week, right? People are going to spend more time going to a funeral than they are—

	M:	Church service.



	D:	And they couldn’t compete. It makes sense. I never heard that.



	M:	Just like, since Christmas, in the summertime, we done had eighteen, about eighteen funerals, some of them twice a week. We had some death, you know, heap of death. Heap of death. Some members and our kinfolks, a heap of death.

	D:	How—I guess, how were the deaths—what, like, natural causes, or had there been, like, you know—

	M:	Natural causes— D:	Any deaths—

	M:	Gunshots, shootings—



	D:	Any deaths that stand out that shook the community that—



	M:	Yeah, the two little kids, two little kids over there in Lake City got shot. They were over there in the park. Looked like it was a gang thing. But he was from here, but he was in Lake City. His momma is one of the Udells. And then, there was that Viola Udell, she just come recently died. And Doris Newsome died. Isidore Udell died. That’s another Udell. We had four Udells to die some kind of way. One of them was killed, little kid was killed. And when death come, it was like the death





toll was on this city for a while. And I just thank God for me. But my time and your time coming, too. So, be prepared. It coming, I don’t care where it be. If He come at me, I told Him, “Don’t worry about it, I think I’ve done a good job in my life.” I’ve praised Him. I just got back from Mississippi last week. My first grandchild graduated from high school.

	D:	Congratulations! Congratulations.



	M:	At Biloxi, at the colosseum in Biloxi. And they had three hundred and forty-one students. That was a big one. I wish I had the paper that showed you—

	D:	In the class?



	M:	Yeah.



	D:	Wow.



	F:	That’s a lot.



	D:	A lot.



	M:	That’s a big town. Because it must be like—see, because Gulfport and Biloxi’s together. That Harrison, that’s what it is. Harrison County. And back to the school, like, you asked about how we get to school—you couldn’t do, back when I came up, like I say, you couldn’t do wrong. Like, Monday, we don’t mope and miss school. And you don’t mope and miss the bus. And sometime, we had some people just mean. Like, one time, our bus driver—now, we had to, I don’t care rain, shine, or snow, I had at least a quarter mile to walk to the road to meet the bus. It wouldn’t never go up in there and pick us up. We had to go out there, and we didn’t have no tent shelter like some people built. I’m talking about I don’t care how cold it was, we had to be out there, scrape down that road to meet that bus.





And sometime that man would see us coming, running. He would pull on out. Man, some people just mean! There some mean peoples in this world. And some people don’t care about helping other people. It’s all over the world.

	D:	Is the bus driver White? Black. M:	Black.

	D:	Black, okay.



	M:	He was one of those, I ain’t calling his name, but one that he was mean.



Sometimes he was mean, and [inaudible 21:54]. But, so be it.



	F:	What was your experience like at the Carver school?



	M:	Tremendous. I loved school. Like I say, I missed one year, but some teachers was very good. Did you ever hear that—you do Ms. Bryant?

	F:	We’re just starting, so I think Ryan’s getting all the older women and teachers.



He’s trying to—



	M:	Ms. Bryant was one of the best teachers. Not all the teachers was good. Some teachers was bad. Some teachers care about upper-class people than they do low-class. They won’t, they’ll give them something and then they’ll hold back when they don’t want. They don’t like some peoples. Some peoples just like that. Prejudice. Especially when they redbone and you blackbone. Back then, they was thinking they was like more White. But, some peoples like that.

	F:	And what was your favorite subject?



	M:	Mathematics. And my daddy told me if I could count his money, I could do anything. [Laughter] And I could count, I made straight-As in math. That’s the only thing I can really—and then I came into art, because a White teacher came,





Ms. Daniels. She lived right there, that house, right across the street there was her house. She was the first White teacher to come to our school to teach. And she came, I can’t quite remember when she came, but I remember I can [inaudible 23:36]. Year, she came the year or the year before our house burned down, because she really loveded my little brothers. One of them name Darnell, and the other was Glenn. But she loveded Glenn. She loveded Glenn. And she taught me how to draw. First thing I draw was a fish. She told me to draw a fish. And she gave me a paper, and told me to do latitude and longitude on it. Big square. And you do the same thing on a quarter-inch here, on this fish, and then you do another big paper twice a day, and make it an inch. Four times a day. So, whenever this line hit this line here on this fish, you transfer it to your line. This way you ain’t tracing. And wherever it hit this line too, on this line, you draw that same spot all the way around. And it’ll come out. I drawed it, and did all my scales. It came out perfect. I got my first A in art. And I loveded art. In high school, I was going in art and industrial art come up last. At school I stayed in art, industrial art, and making all kind of things. I loveded that. But I had done cut up all my grades, and I didn’t have nothing really but two or three subjects going.

And I had a job at the egg farm. So I could go to school, I catch the school bus over there, and then I went on to industrial art. Then I catch the Greyhound home every day. I buy the month ticket. Every day, I get out, catch the Greyhound here, come home, and then we go to work. But then, they me took me out of art, industrial art, and want to put me in agriculture because I was working on the farm, out at the farm—I don’t even want to be no more plow boy. I been a plow





boy all my life, on the farm. I wasn’t trying to get no scholarship for art. I wanted to get a job. So they took me out of that. And I ain’t interested in going to school, because I had all my credits. So, I got a full-time job out here.

	F:	Where were you working?



	M:	Hillandale Egg Farm. That what the name was. It was a chicken farm over here on the left. And then I called PCS. It was Occidental then. And I put in an application. In a couple weeks, I got a full-time job there. All I had to do was turn in my hours for my credits. I needed some amount of credit. And I got them, they put me on overtime, and I was making the most money stack for a young guy in school to ever make. I was on about my brand-new car. I ended up working there four years before they fired me. But I went from the bottom to the top. On heavy equipment, I went all the way up. I studied hard, I practiced hard, and worked hard. Wasn’t trying to get any poor work at the farm they were growing. I ain’t never poor. I worked hard all my life. [Inaudible 26:13], I was fast, main care is look out for people. Sometimes, people don’t want you look out for some people.

	D:	So you got fired just for looking out for someone?



	M:	In a way, that started that. Because they came up with a safety rule that—back then, we setting barges. That’s a thing they did where they dig in the ground, and you got to set a barge out there. And you go out hook a hose to it and pump the water, that way the tractor can keep digging. A pick, calling for a pick. Well, it got unsafe that some people couldn’t swim, and then everybody have to have a life jacket to go out there now. One day, they saw to Herman do one, and I couldn’t let my man go. I was like a labeling. They can’t go out there, because they ain’t





got the life jacket. They called me and gave me a poor work performance because I refused to perform duty. I did not refuse to perform duty; I refused to have a man do something unsafe. But they gave me the reprimand. They tell me it won’t hurt me; it always hurt you. Anytime you get something on you wrong, it hurts you.

	F:	Can we just stay at Carver School? Because I want to talk about your softball team for a little. Can you tell me about that?

	M:	That is all that was. F:	Yeah?

	M:	We always played softball there. We didn’t—man, there back behind the school, there was a little bit. That field over there, that was really the big baseball field. But we used to play right behind the school where the weeds at. But we thought we would knock a home run; man, that wasn’t nowhere back there. [Laughter] Just when you little kids, you knock one—oh, man! That wasn’t nothing but—we didn’t do that until way afterwards.

	F:	Afterwards?



	M:	Way after I was graduated and worked and all, we just— F:	How old were you?

	M:	At this time, about twenty-one, twenty-two. F:	Twenty-one?

	M:	And we sponsored our own team. We never had a sponsor. Just a few guys got together, because they had a baseball team, and we got together and started playing softball. And we didn’t know softball was seven innings. We always





thought it was nine innings like that. But we were good. But we went to Fargo— not Fargo. Adel, Georgia. Up there somewhere. Or Fargo, one of—that’s when we learned it’s seven innings, because they beat the devil out of us fast. And we thought we had a chance to catch up. They said the game was over; it was seven innings. Said, “No, we play nine.” They said, “No.” Then we went to check the rules, it said seven-inning softball. We thought it was nine. And first, we had the bases like baseball. Because we didn’t know. We running ninety-five feet.

Then we found out it was sixty-five feet. So, when they put it at sixty-five feet— we were fast. And I was one of the fastest ones turning a base. Sixty-five feet, wasn’t nothing for me to go to third base, fast! And I’d run halfway there, and they throw this way, and I’m just climbed on another one. [Laughter] We was a trip, man! I wish we’d have had it filmed. It’s one person in Jacksonville filmed it, because we went down to Jacksonville to a tournament for a hamburger thing.

They sponsored us for a hamburger thing. So we went there one time. But we went all around the world. But Carver, man, that was a great school, I’m tell you. And we hated for the—

	D:	You play sports there?



	M:	I didn’t play no sports in school. I didn’t have time, I’d come home, work, and dig it out without taking [inaudible 29:27].

	D:	Sure, sure.



	M:	I wish I could’ve. If I’d’ve played sports, I could have made football or baseball.



Made it all the way. I was that good. But I didn’t play no sports.



	D:	But in the neighborhood, you were known for being good. You could play.





	M:	Yes.



	D:	You compared yourself to others, and you knew you were better.



	M:	When I played—the second year I played, I think I played baseball twice in my year. This out here, I played baseball, I was the last person on the team to strike out. And I’m playing with—Perry, this White guy was a pitcher, he done played professional; and all these other guys been to college and everywhere else to play baseball. But I was the last guy on the team to strike out. So that mean I put myself way up here.

	F:	When you traveled, what kind of—were there any other people who were sponsored, or was it just kind of pick-up games? When you traveled?

	M:	It was some, most people were sponsored. Beside us. We sponsored ourselves, and we drove our ownself, our own cars. Sometimes we leave here, the whole town just about shut down.

	D:	So, but those peers coming up, who would you say was probably some of the most famous people playing sports coming out of this town, that you can think of, that made it to the professional level?

	M:	We had nobody.



	D:	No one? Okay.



	M:	Ellis Brown went to—Ellis, he from here and not here. Played for the Gators, went to Chicago. Ellis Brown. Yeah, he was a quarterback in Hamilton County. See, that’s one of my little nephews. From [19]74 to [197]9, that’s what, probably one here.

	D:	That’s one person you can—that shine.





	M:	Robert Thomas was bad. But they had some more guys, A.J. My daddy was a mean baseball pitcher. My dad, and Uncle Fred, and they all had a baseball team, you know? And they had it right there where that field at, there. But it was ten rounds, where you had a number to pay to come in there.

	D:	So your family’s very, the family, the baseball lineage is pretty strong. You’re pretty heavy in baseball.

	M:	Well, all of us like poor folk, we just, ain’t nothing we could do right here but play a little ball. But that on my daddy, but we couldn’t come to a lot of these games, because we was in the country. And that was the town then. And little kids around here had more privilege because they here and we out in the country. All we had to do was run back and forth, and grandfather do that. There in the woods. I was eight years old before I had lights. Now, here where I was living, I was eight years old before we put lights in the house. I was so glad to be able to pull the string! [Laughter] Now, you understand where I was “in the woods”? I had to cut my own wood, and use the can of kerosene, eight years old.

	D:	That’s interesting to put it.



	F:	Did you—when did you get telephone lines? Did you have them?



	M:	Yeah, that’s what I’m saying. After I was eight—we didn’t get a telephone until I was ten or twelve.

	F:	And A/C? Air conditioning?



	M:	What was that? [Laughter] You let out the bow window. And the wind blow in it. F:	Did your dad build your house?





	M:	Yeah. Family, community. They got together, and us. Together. And then we built after that one burned down, we moved down here where that little place in town, right from where I live at. It’s that boarding house there. We moved in that house for two or three years after ours burned down, and we stayed there, until we got a place out there that—did you been out and about Rooster, y’all been anywhere in the country? Where the boat ramp at? That’s where I was telling you all the time, that was the best place to go swimming. In Rooster, that where my daddy’ homestead at now. We moved the building, kept on, we built a house. We built a house out there.

	D:	Was there a home loan for building the house from the federal government? Did you get a home loan, you know? Or did y’all just build it from—you on the land.

	M:	No, they just, Daddy bought—there were five acres there. It was thirty-three acres we should have got, they were pretty cheap, but him and his brother got five acres. His brother got two, and he got three of them.

	D:	I wanted to go back to a point that you made that I thought was interesting. Your life and education run synonymous with you all getting lights. So it’s like you didn’t go to school until you’re six or seven, and you didn’t have lights in your house until you were about eight. So, it’s kind of interesting to see you “coming to the light” the same time you getting light—there and the light bulb goes off! [Laughter]

	M:	All I wanted to do was pull that thing. You know, they had them hanging there about here. There weren’t no switches and all, there was just string. So we were





short. Daddy had to take it and tie with it, that way we can just turn it. We just get the chance to get it to go on and off to see it. Say, “Let there be light!” [Laughter]

	D:	Let there be light! [Laughter] So, we coming out of Carver school, you— F:	You were on the egg farm? After you had finished—

	M:	I was in, I was in the senior year.



	F:	Okay. So you were working on an egg farm, and then where did you go? M:	Occidental. That’s the chemical plant, the phosphate plant.

	D:	Oh, Occidental.



	M:	It was Occidental, now it called “PCS.”



	F:	Yes, PCS. And then, they let you go. And then where did you go after that?



	M:	I went into construction. And I went to—let me see where I started at. We started construction for a local union, local 301 out of Jacksonville. It was a union. And that’s when they was building the new Occidental, the one up there by Swift Creek. So I got with the, had something when they had to repair stuff? I got with a company called Zamco Insulation. And we insulated all the pipes and everything. I helped with scaffold-building. And after that—

	F:	How old are you around this time? Like, how long did you stay in construction? M:	I started with Occidental, either I was seventeen or eighteen. Probably eighteen.

And I worked there four and a half years. So, that’d get me about twenty-two. Because right after, just before my momma died, that’s when I got crazy. I lost my momma, my momma died, and I was roughhousing and this was a toll on me about my momma. But, she called me and told me one time, she say—I had a car, and it was way behind, but I had a car and me and her name, back then you





could buy insurance for you and your parents’ name. And it was on the insurance, if something happen to me, it’ll pay for it for her. If something happen to her, it’ll pay for it for me. [Inaudible: 36:46]. And my momma told me—I had got two or three payment behind, and she came and told me that the money [inaudible 36:56] caught up with you, “and don’t you get behind no more, because soon it’ll be yours.” She said, “I’ll be gone soon, and it’ll be yours already paid for. And somebody got to be strong in this thing, and I need you to be strong.” So I chose to try to take care of family. Trying to do that, it’s hard work to do. And then I worked hard, but I try to look out for this family.

	F:	Are you one of the older ones, or the younger ones? M:	I’m the fifth.

	F:	You’re the fifth. Okay.



	M:	Mae Frances is the oldest. Mae Frances; Leroy, Jr.; Joyce; Mel; then me. F:	Okay. And then, are your brothers and sisters still around?

	M:	Yeah. Mae Frances is here. Leroy here. Joyce here, she’s retired out there in the country in front of the church. Mel is a veteran, he in Tallahassee, and a veteran working at the hospital, veterans’ hospital. Me. Shirley—you met Shirley. She in Lake City, here. Mel is a preacher, you might’ve met Mel; I’m not sure. Then Joseph, he in Coffeyville, Tennessee. He retired from the Army in Cochran, he staying there. Lolita, she in Lake Butler. Tansy in Jacksonville. She finished, she got her bachelor degree in accounting out in Jacksonville. And Ben, he work PCS contracting—Pooh Bear. And Beebee, she work at the correctional facility in Jasper. Most all of us here, ain’t but a few out.





	D:	So, now that you—when you leave Carver, you work construction, you worked at the chemical plant, a lot of these places. If you could, I guess—what were some of your own passions? Things that you did outside of just work, that you enjoyed?

	M:	Ball.



	D:	Just—



	M:	Playing ball and fishing. D:	Fishing, okay.

	M:	Fishing. But back to this here on working: after I went out there and workeded with them, and then a man Woody came. He asked me would I go work with him building bridges, with Fetch out of Mississippi, Fetch outcall. So I say yeah. And it was, back then, that was—shoot, they weren’t paying nothing. Back then, it wasn’t nothing but four, five dollars a hour. But I worked on there for about, from [19]83 to [19]87. I worked on that as a concrete finisher, and I got a certificate from the state of Florida that I am qualified, certified, to work anywhere on a bridge, on a highway road. I got my certificate concrete and carpenting. So I’m a carpenter and I can do any work. Until I got hurt again after that. He left that job and I stayed there and finished up. I did fifteen bridges, I got—we started the Anola ferry. And then we went, the one over there in Live Oak on 90, then I went all the way to Old Town, across Suwannee River there. We put three in in the Alapaha and Withlacoochee up in Georgia. I builded one in Jasper on the Alapaha. I build other in Cairo, by Moultrie. I put one in Waldo. And one in Jones Creek. And I think that—it was about fifteen bridges I did over four years and things. I had built about fifteen complete bridges. I loved that, pouring the





concrete. And then, Woody called me back out here to work with this company Watkins Engineering, and I went from making about four dollars to twelve dollars an hour. And that was a big check. And that’s when the thing happened—I worked out there, I went to work three or four nights, and boy, I made some money! Everything over eight hours was sixteen dollars an hour: time and a half. Or, eighteen dollars an hour. And I mean, from four dollars a hour to twelve, to eighteen, you making some jack. They call that jack-jack! [Laughter]

	F:	How old were you when you got hurt?



	M:	I been hurt—May 6, [20]02. Thirteen years. But, on August the 3rd, 1987, on my birthday, [inaudible 42:03] was twenty-seven, I had all my kids and all, my girlfriend, but then with my cake, she didn’t have no cake, so I took off to Jasper, and on the way there, I had a bad accident, hit a girl, and she got killed, and the other boy got hurt. They charged me with DUI Manslaughter, and then they broke it down to Vehicle Homicide. I had to do a year in jail. That was the term for it, and one of the baddest things in my life.

	D:	Thirteen years ago. M:	No.

	F:	That’s from [19]87. D:	[19]87. Okay.

	F:	Okay. What jail did you go to? What jail?



M:  Columbia County. The one I—I even half-built the jail. By the time I got through building the jail, I was the first one go ahead—I should have kept my key. But I was with this company here. Then they broke me down from twelve to seven





because the job we did was completed, but the man say if I want to stay he keep me as a laborer for seven dollars an hour. Seven dollars an hour more money than anybody else was paying. So, I stayed on with him, I worked with that company until I had this reclamation—out to my last job, this thing was April the 28th, [20]02. I worked for eighteen years, I went back to the head carpenter, I was one of the head carpenter. The labor from the [inaudible 43:23] the company. We worked all around the river. All around the river. North Carolina. Alabama.

Jacksonville, they were paper mills. Tampa. Gainesville—in the hospital and all. Working all the places there as carpenter and concrete. I was known as the head concrete man. Of the jobs I’m on. Somebody else come on, I was the head concrete finisher. And they send me from place to place, because they get in trouble with some concrete, and know I can bring it out the hole.

	D:	I’m just curious about some of the racial components of your life. You haven’t mentioned a lot of racial interactions, or confrontations. You have any of those that you experienced?

	M:	Yeah. I have that, but I just pray on it to let God handle it. And He say [inaudible 44:14] footstool. Came on the job we work, we ain’t going to pull that. They have all this stuff wrote on the wall about Whites and Black and that. And sometime they’ll call you that on the job, but you look at them and—. Yeah, just—.

	D:	How about growing up— M:	It was al—

	D:	It was always that?



	M:	It was here bad, even, like, right there. They had a big old street dance one time.





	D:	A Greek dance?



	M:	Street dance, street. It was a White street dance, and some Black guys came and, boy, it came a big rout. Big, big. I mean, they beat up some peoples, and people got hurt, and throwed them in jail, and all up and down the road, [inaudible 44:52] one time.

	F:	Were you in—



M:  But I wasn’t in that, because I couldn’t—I was in the house, now, you know what I’m saying, but I wasn’t allowed, and if you know something like that, don’t get in a part of it.

F:   Were you allowed to use the springs and everything?



	M:	Back then, no. Now that’s—you could use the springs, but they didn’t allow you to use that swimming pool right there. And they covered it up, because they didn’t want no Blacks in for a while. But—

	F:	And then, after integration, how did that affect the community? M:	Say again?

	F:	After integration, how did that affect the community? During that time, were there problems?

	M:	It’s helping—it’s ironing out. It’s ironing out. But, it’s always going be some of that there. Always, I don’t care what.

	D:	I’m always curious to learn on a local level, what was the defining, or what some of the turning points for integration. Some people think it’s just schools. But what was it that was integrated that let you know that there’s some progress that’s been made—when you’ve seen something, or a center, a institution, somewhere





integrated, and you were like, “You know what? Things are changing right now. Because I never thought I’d see this change!”

	M:	Yeah.



	D:	What are some things that stand out, that you first saw, that made you realize that changes really happened?

	M:	Didn’t that Martin Luther King said, “One day, my White children and Black children going walk together holding hands?”

	D:	Yeah, yeah.



	M:	It’s like that. It’s like that. And, lot of them old people that hated it and didn’t want that, they gone. And some of them still around that, they mind. The one that hate it, and around now? Ain’t nothing they can do about it. Like, they used to call us all them words. Now, if they ain’t careful, every one of them got one in they family. And it’s not coincidentally, it’s because of what they kid and who they want to be anyway.

	D:	Hm, okay. So, just in people, relationships and communities kind of show you that things are changing?

	M:	Yeah—



	D:	Just, so—



	M:	There been some bad peoples, and there been some good peoples here. We always had good peoples. Already good with Mr. L.A. Enfield and his children. We were raised as [inaudible 47:21] them. They was out there when my mom used to work. See, my mom used to work for a—Momma was a housewife.

Housekeeper. She’d go around, keep on ironing people’ clothes. And then,





sometime, we got to go. And if I got to go sit with her all day, and walk with her, I’m there. So, they had kids, we got to playing. We out there playing together. And—that ain’t scotch, is it?

	D:	No. No, no, no, no, no.



	M:	Didn’t look like it’d be no scotch. F:	It’s tea. [Laughter]

	D:	Maybe a little moonshine Hennesy, something like. I saw you had the cucumbers there. I thought that was some—

	M:	No, I bought—



	D:	I thought it was some Nar Water. M:	No, I brought—

	D:	[Laughter] From Tennessee. M:	—for y’all to take some.

	D:	I’m from Tennessee, we learned how to— M:	From where?

	D:	Mess around with the— M:	Oh, I—

	D:	—the apples—



	M:	I keep moonshine. I don’t like the apple kind. [Laughter] D:	You don’t like the apple moonshine?

	M:	No, I like it straight.



	D:	You like it straight. Okay, okay.



	M:	I mostly have some, too. I drunk it all last night.





	D:	The celery—have you had celery? M:	No.

	D:	Yeah, it’s interesting, celery—but anyway. [Laughter] We’ll talk. Did you want to add anything that you—you know, as far as your legacy and you being a very pivotal part of your family, because I can see that something is very important to you—

	M:	I want to be important to the whole community, and the life of anybody come here. And anybody come in this town, I want to welcome here. And I thank God for Ms. Miller. I don’t know what going happen now. I hope it be real successful. But since she been here, it’s a miracle. She have did wonderful—she did a whole lots. To me, she did more than—I ain’t going brag on nobody, but she stepped in here and tried to do a lot of things. So if she ain’t the mayor no more, I don’t know what’s going to happen.

	F:	She’ll be, she can come back. It’s four years. M:	But, I don’t know.

	F:	Or two years, yeah.



	M:	Who the guy is who beat her, that guy that supposed—I can’t just throw the towel away. But some people won’t get as much help as they was getting from certain people. I do my part, but I don’t know.

	F:	I want to ask you about—I don’t know how long, or you have been here, we don’t want to hold you for too long—

	M:	Get on, now! [Laughter]





F:  I wanted to ask you about the deertongue collecting, so you can just explain it more in detail for us. When did you start, and you still do it now, so what’s the process like?

	M:	It mostly start around this time of year. And if you want, just start gathering up, gathering up, to save, get your luck. But back then, I can’t remember. I guess mostly when we got out of school. Like, school’s out today. Last day. Now, it’s time for us to go to work. Like, back in the day, they had tobacco fields here. They already had they plants all right in the ground, so we got to go pull the plant, bed the plant, hold the barrel. So we all had to be, we had to get through that. On the way home, we would have to, I would cut through the woods and pick up a croker sack of deertongue to take back with you. Carry the sack and leave it ‘side the road, and get back by your sight, go through the woods, and come on through the woods. Like, we used to cut all through there. All this here [inaudible 50:43]. Ain’t nowhere, through them woods from here to 75, and some on the other side of 75, you could put your foot down, and one step in one of my footprints. I don’t care this way, that way, up and down there. Anyhow, nowhere you can go you won’t put your footprint. Out all through them woods. Because we went out there, and looked at every spot, pulled the deertongue and the blueberries. We picked our own blueberries, blackberries, whatever. And right now, they don’t [inaudible 51:14] species, the turtle, the gopher turtle? That was one of our main source of food. That was good, they good. They were good, I made delicious—they better than stew beef. It’s cooked like stew beef from my momma? My momma used to cook that for us, and we had it. We used to be





good. We got to where they couldn’t damn get away from us. We’d dig a hole in front of them. My dad taught me first thing we used to do, but we had to quit, because [inaudible 51:41], I don’t mess with them no more. But we used to take the string, we get a knot on a string, and put a loop over like that, and tie it to the root or stick it in the ground. He come by, it’d go around his head. And he can’t go back off unless he did pull the stick up. But then, if something happened and you can’t go back to get it, he’d suffer, choke to death. And if you wait until the [inaudible 52:04] day, you know, going dead today, if I go out there and I see where he just died, he still warm, he still good. Because if I would have kill him, shot his head off, he got to sit there for a few minute before I clean. He dead, he dead. But like you shoot a bull out in the field. You got to get time to get him up. He ain’t rotten. You got to get him, you got to clean him, you got to put him up— and back then, like I say, we ain’t had lights. So what we were doing with our meat? How were we keeping our meat good? I had to bury it. I’d set them out on blocks of ice. Sometimes I get blocks of ice for the refrigerator. But, then, after we do that, we started putting a bucket in front, that way he fall in the bucket. So he in the bucket, he ain’t going to die, ain’t going to choke himself. That’s what we got to do. And while we going through that, get my gun, shoot a little rabbit, shoot a little squirrel, bring some food back home.

	D:	Wow. Well, they don’t do that anymore! No, no, you do it. The way you process, and getting food and eating, and think—we’re like, “So, where’s the closest McDonald’s?”

	M:	No, no, no.





	D:	You were like, taking the whole, that’s like hunters and gathering and food, processing, that’s completely warped my mind! Oh, man!

	F:	He’s a city boy.



	D:	Yeah, ain’t no—



	M:	Ain’t no McDonald’s back then.



	D:	I wonder how we eat, we going order online. [Laughter] You going to get the food!

	F:	And then I wanted to ask you about—when we were at the barbecue, I wanted to ask you about how you got this role in the community that you make such good barbecue. Was it just word of mouth, or—like how did people find out how good you are? And how did they know that they can just stop by? Because you cook. They have you cook for funerals, don’t they?

	M:	I cook for every—about every funeral [inaudible 53:52] around here. If I know them, and if they call me or I can get there. I keep my own fish. I fry fish for the family on wake night. And I catch them, clean them, and supply everything out of my God’ will. And the faster I give it away, it’ll come back. Just like I go in there, go there and do that just like yesterday. I said—that’s why I told them both to cook fish for them today. Because—I mean, when y’all said that, I started jumping up and say, “Come on!” And I can be out there frying fish, we could’ve ate fish, because I told—whoever I talked to, who I talk to yesterday on the phone?

	F:	Ryan.



	D:	Ryan.





	M:	I told him, “If you want me, I’ll cook for you.” I did mention that. And after they did that yesterday—yesterday, after I talked to him, because—no, that was the day before, because I was barbecuing for this here. For all up here. And I was barbecuing for up here, and Ms. Miller went and bought a lot of stuff. But then, somebody called—when they called me, I told them I was in the midst of trying to get this here food done. So—

	F:	How long have you been doing that? D:	Cooking fish for people.

	F:	Mmhm.



	M:	We been—we always was in the community together, doing things. My family— like I said, my momma always helped. And we always go there, like I was saying about the church, we go to church and help. But since I been hurt and crippled and home, I had this last wreck. Because I worked on yonder [inaudible 55:42] and I had this wreck, and man, I got broke up. Man. On May 6th, I broke both of my hips, my collarbone, my right leg. And my head right there where I was cut up, because I was in a little jeep. Then when he hit a big old tree, it kicked me like this and twist me. And it broke all my half, and little guy was driving; my shoulder knocked him out the jeep. He didn’t even get hurt. Then, when my friend called, we had worked up there in Gaston, Gaston is south of Atlanta, working on a new power plant. So we finished that job, and they went to Texas, and I had to stay and finish the job because I was the head scaffold builder. Of all the jobs, I was the head scaffold, so I had to be there to check every scaffold.

Nobody couldn’t get on no scaffold no more until I check it and sign my name. I





was the competent person. I don’t care if I leave at night, nobody can knock hammer or be on that building until I sign my name and date on it. Every day. New tag every day. Because I supposed to be the competent person that make sure nobody get hurt. And that’s what I try to do. Because most of my crew, we works real safe. I thank God, and I pray. And when we came home, me and my dad were fixing to go fishing. I dug baits. And I was going to see my daddy, and I stopped there just sessing up, and there go these two guys, boys, Gary Creel, and they had the four-wheel. I asked them where they were going, they said, “We’re going to get some beer and go there.” “Me too!” We get some beer and go up in the 6th—where I built that bridge, on 6th and Left Hall. That’s the river that go dry. And we ride four-wheelers. So we went down there, and we roll in it, went up the river, and got the thing in water until it choked out the jeep and things. So we came back to town. We supposed to quit then, but we came to town, got some more, change the oil in the thing, got it cranked out, and said, “Well, let’s go down this way.” So we went all the way to 75 that way, and still to come up the jeep hill like that because—man, we were crazy, man! Crazy horse, country crazy! So we came around the curve, and we were coming up the dirt road, and this guy came around the curve too fast trying to keep up with that four-wheel. He holler, “Oh, shit!” When he did, he hit a tree.

	D:	In closing, in a sense—I’m just curious to ask you, you seem to have done a lot— like, you’re the most Renaissance man that I’ve, you know—it’s amazing. How do you say you coming from such humble beginnings, little education up to a twelve years—I mean, senior year of high school, right? No college, right? And you’ve





come and done all these phenomenal things. I would like to know, how would you categorize your life as far as just being fortunate? You know, would you say you transitioned from lower class to middle class? Or, would you say you were more proud, that you had your children, and you fulfilled your mom’s wishes?

How do you reflect on your life and seeing how your accomplishments have pretty much shaped who you are? What are your proudest—because—

	M:	Meeting friends. Like y’all. People that want to know things. And helping them. Like my momma wanted me to do. And I was saying this already: I was working for all them peoples, even up there I was cooking. Wherever I went, I always cooked. Because I don’t eat out, I don’t like restaurants. I like to eat my own food. And I kept me a hot plate, we made it in our motel, and if I had room in the motel, we out there a week, I kept my own cooking. And I’d buy me some, as I already said I done grill hamburgers, we going eat. Every now and then, I buy me some food, or buy me something quick, but everyone eating. Same thing here. Even when I had this wreck, I was working with everybody, everybody appreciate me in the towns I’m in, and having fun. I’m an old man, picture old peoples and things. I got here to this wreck, and then I say, “Lord this is the way you wanted me to come home and take care of my family, this is what I do. Whatever it take, I do it.” So, what my compliment is, Jesus got me going, my momma asked me to help them. After the wreck, I remember I got a right then, they said both I had got a hip transplants. I was, for five years, I walked with two crutches, and this knee here would lock right there. So, five years. I just got a hip replaced, not long ago. But during the time I was locked up, and I supposed to got the hip replaced, I had





a blood clot. So they couldn’t do it. And then, right after the blood clot, I went crabbing down in Perry, catching some crab—I love crabbing, fishing and crabbing—and I got in that water. [Inaudible 1:01:02]? And it ate this leg, you know. All the way up to my knee.

	F:	What kind of disease? M:	Nicotala sescialis.

	F:	Oh, wow. I’m sorry!



	M:	And then—see, they grabbed my skin from over here to put back around it, but it was gone. But it’s all right. [Pats leg]

	F:	It’s looks fine.



	M:	I growed it. I growed it back. But I went to two doctors, and they said, they thought—one doctor say he didn’t see nothing wrong. The next time, he sent me home. I went to another and they thought I wanted some drugs. But I had all my [inaudible 1:01:37] showing. So I called my doctor, they told me to Medicare there in Lake City. They immediately sent me to Gainesville, Shands, to the hospital. They put me in intensive care in the burn center. And before I could get there, all this leg here, all the skin was popping off. And you could see my bone, my muscles, all that—look like, if you see that fish—

	F:	Oooh!



	M:	None of that, I’m just saying, though.



	D:	He cuts animals open; that’s the problem! It don’t bother you! M:	Yeah. I have no fear.

	D:	We’re still ordering pizza! Still—





	F:	I have a couple questions just to, like, gather your life. Were you ever married? M:	Yes, I was married once. This girl here, I wasn’t married to the lady with my kids.

I got five kids, four girls and a boy. I got twenty-three grandchildren. But I married another woman, I had three kids. Her name was Elizabeth Marshall. She was a Marshall before I met her. That’s where I was going that night when I had that wreck with that girl, to see her on my birthday. But I was married, but she’s deceased and passed now. But, I’m a single bachelor now, I ain’t care no more. I do what I want to do, I ain’t got no shackles on my feet.

	F:	Are your children around here?



	M:	Yes. One of them in—I got one in Oklahoma, a girl, oldest daughter in Oklahoma, and one in Mississippi, and she went to—she was in the Air Force, and she working at the horsefield in Gulfport. In Biloxi. In Oklahoma, she was working at [inaudible 1:03:03] here in Lake City, but her husband in refrigeration somewhere, and he got a job—he was working at Gold Kist, but some kind of way he messed the job there, and his boss’ company got him a job in Oklahoma. So, he up in Oklahoma going to school and doing the job, so they were better than here, so I packed her car, truck up, a car and a truck, and her two kid. I put the kids on the back of the car on the trailer, and packed the whole four bedroom house, and a U-Haul, and I drove nineteen hours straight to Oklahoma, to carry my daughter and her husband. And then I flew back. Love my kids. Out of everything, I try to be a dad. I try to make a good dad or granddaddy, any time they call or come. In the schoolhouse here, anything in Lake City, I’m on the list that anything go wrong, I can go get the kids. And I love them dearly.





	F:	And then, I know you still do art. Can you tell me a little bit—is it just pastime? I know you still work with your hands. I know you do! The beer cans. You made the thing out of the—

	M:	Oh, oh, oh, that’s where that was, Mr. Green, I live there. Yeah, but I—my granddaughter into art and that. The one just graduated? She trying to go to school for art, but she say she going go to the Air Force or Navy first. And I’m proud of her. She can draw real good.

	F:	That’s good. Okay. And then I want to ask you, just so we can wrap up, about the May Day celebration. May Day?

	M:	Mmhm. I started with my trailer hooked up for that.



	F:	Weren’t you one of the founders? Could you tell me about that?



	M:	Yeah. It’s just like I was saying, we want to give that day. One day, what was it? What was it—fifteen? Seventeen? It’s a long time to remember that, but, what I could, it was end of the—one time after the softball, we said, “Let’s cook.” Because when we used to play softball, we always have a year party. End-of-the- year party, we always. So, now they just said, “Let’s start a day where you cook.” And you know, peoples came around and ate and ate. And then the next year, we did it. And now, it has—wow! It’s wild! And we mostly was at the school, because certain peoples, somebody, something happened, and they were talking about the school dangerous because all them kids there. And the boarded them, that’s why they put the fence up. And during that time, they would be all in front of the school, cooking. And people walking through there and all that. But they were worried about the kids, because they say that ballroom got that asbestos.





And the building look kind of dangerous, somebody might step on it, get someone hurt. So they put the fence up. So that’s why some of the guys now just want to come down there where I live at, and can they cook over there. And say, yeah. Now, it used to be down there, but I just stay home because everybody here and it’s crowded down there. Because it was—this your first time.

F&D: Mmhm.



	M:	The last two years should have been down there, because they had a music set up, little basketball court, and they was—you couldn’t, man, it would take you two hours to get from my house to the school house if you tried to drive a car. And they got all these loud music, car jacking up, you know. They done came, it’s big now. You didn’t make it, though. You would’ve been, you would’ve been so glad. You would’ve been laughing.

	D:	I’m thinking about it now.



	M:	Anything you want to eat, you walk up to another grill, or this grill, or this part, and say, “Get me something!”

	D:	How long has this been going? M:	Seventeen years, think it was. D:	Seventeen.

	F:	This is a community thing. It’s giving back? That’s awesome. M:	That’s what we was, just to give back.

	F:	That’s great! Well, I think we’re ready to wrap up now. Now we’re going to ask you if there’s anything you’d like to talk to us, anything you’d like to say?





	M:	I just appreciate y’all coming here and helping out White Springs. And I thank y’all for our little pretty building down there. I’m going be here. Any time y’all need, give me a call, and I’ll be ready to help cook.

	D:	I’ll take you up on that!



	M:	I really—what time y’all leaving? F:	I don’t know. Soon.

	D:	Headed back after—soon after this, yeah, soon after. We got to get back. F:	All right, well thank you, and—

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	AJ Donaldson and Ryan Morini, November 3, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, November 26, 2018

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019