AAHP 298; Rickman; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 298 Ray Rickman

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Justin Dunnavant on March 22, 2013 38 minutes | 17 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 298

Interviewee: Ray Rickman Interviewer: Justin Dunnavant Date: March 22, 2013



	D:	Good morning, my name is Justin Dunnavant and I’m here doing a phone interview with Mr. Ray Rickman, he is currently in Providence, Rhode Island and today’s date is March 22, 2013. The time is 9:30. Mr. Rickman, is it okay for you to be recorded?

	R:	Absolutely.



D:  Great, thank you. So the way I wanted to run this interview, I just want to get a little background history as to where you’re born, where you’re from and then I guess go into more of your civil rights activism.

	R:	Okay so I was born in Gallatin, Tennessee. That’s a little town in the northern border of Tennessee. Born there by accident. We lived in Detroit. My mother had gone there in 1946 and I was born in 1948. She went home for a two or three week visit and by “home” up to my father’s mother and father’s house. That’s where my grandfather and grandmother and my father’s son, James Bailee Rickman is my father and obviously his family. Anyway she went to visit and I was born in eight months. I was born a month early. That’s how I got born in Gallatin, Tennessee instead of a hospital in Detroit. So that’s where I was born and I lived in Detroit all my life. It’s always been awkward because I’m a real Detroiter but the birth certificate says “Gallatin, Tennessee.”

	D:	Okay and where are your parents from if you don’t mind me asking?



R:  Father’s from Gallatin, Tennessee and mother’s from Union Town, Alabama. My father was a truck driver and ten years older than my mother. She wasn’t old but a teenager and not a teenager by those standards in those days. She was





eighteen years old. My father was twenty-eight or twenty-nine and he used to deliver Coca-Cola and whatever else to the big grocery store and by “big” I mean little. [Laughter] Not that big but anyway, he delivered to the grocery store in a big truck; a huge truck because he would deliver Coca-Cola to all the small stores and his route was about seventy-five stores between wherever he came from in Tennessee to Union Town was his last stop. So that’s how my mother met him.

She met him in the store a couple times and she knew when he would come to the store and she’d be there and one thing led to another and they ended up getting married.

	D:	Oh wow okay and you were born in Tennessee but you were raised in Detroit is that correct?

	R:	Right.



	D:	Okay what was it—?



	R:	My father went to—father and mother got married in [19]46 and went to Detroit in [19]46.

	D:	Okay and what was it like growing up in Detroit?



	R:	Probably weirdly fabulous and awful and I think, you know it’s probably—I don’t know how much of America was like that. I keep thinking places like Philadelphia and New York and the like must have been just like Detroit. We had fabulous public schools and the reason we had those schools was because the automotive industry controlled Detroit and they wanted everybody educated.

Henry Ford said, “Everyone should be able to be able to be a big foreman in a factory.” And that was the Ford family philosophy and they had a lot of influence





on Detroit and I tell people, “We’re not honest about why our educational system is so bad.” In a place like Providence, Rhode Island where I live, they needed the majority of the White folks, Italians and Greeks and Polish folks and Irish, they needed them to work at the jewelry factory. That’s all they needed from them. So you didn’t needed a PhD, an MA or BA, and they didn’t want you to have one because how you gonna work in the factory with a BA? So, we lied about what the American educational system was for. It was for basic skills. Just reading and writing is all they wanted out of folks here. Well in Detroit, they wanted a little bit more. They wanted you to have a little math and that was the big difference between an automotive industry and say steel or coal or jewelry making. These undertakings take very little education. They’re kind of rote. They tell you what to do and you do and if you don’t, they push you down the line to do something else. It didn’t take a lot of logic or a lot of skill, and the automotive industry always took more, so I was lucky to be in Detroit where they taught the Black kids, the White kids and remember most of the White kids are quite ethnics. A lot of Eastern Europeans. It taught us better than they did in most places in America because they needed us to perform at a slightly higher level. I also always liked to point out to people again, America would tell us these blatant lies and people fall for them or have no memory. All of these schools, until the mid [19]60s were for elite White folks and there were virtually no community colleges. The classes at places like Brown University, the class of 1965 had eight Black male students in it, four of them athletes. That’s what these elite schools did. Dartmouth, Brown and all of them and so Blacks were excluded. You didn’t prepare yourself to go to





college because you weren’t gonna go, and again this is not just Black folks and Latinos and the like, this is most White folks can’t go to college either. There was no need to go and when somebody who was working class went to school, it probably was to be a schoolteacher and probably very little other reason because you weren’t going to be able to get a job in those other fields. They were closed industries. Closed to Black people in particular. So that’s the Detroit I grew up in. So you got a good education but I grew up in a Detroit where you could not go across certain streets after dark. The city was segregated. I grew up in a city where when I was a teenager, we had a mayor who—well I was probably eighteen to twenty-two. We have a mayor, a former sheriff, of Wayne County and he thought it was his job to hold the barrier to see that Blacks did not get elected mayor or get control of the city of Detroit even though we were sixty-five percent of the population. So that’s the kind of America I grew up in. The final fascinating thing about Detroit, back to the automotive industry, a lot of Black folks had good jobs. All my uncles were in the UAW and they all worked in the automotive industry and they all had good jobs and good pensions and owned their houses. My father died early and they took care of us. They bought us clothes from Sears and took us to picnics and UAW picnics. Now I tell people I’m Pro-UAW for life because I went to a picnic every year for fourteen years. It doesn’t take much to buy me but, so Detroit was a very interesting place which I think Black people did better than they did almost anyplace else and that’s why it’s so sad that Detroit’s in such bad shape now. You would not have expected it.





	D:	So you were different than a lot of your peers in the sense that you did eventually go to college is that correct?

	R:	Yeah but I’m on the cusp there. I’m the perfect age. If I’d been two or three years older I probably would not have gone to college. I’m just saying that, but you know, I live in an extraordinary house. My mother was an extraordinary woman. People say that about their mothers all the time, but in this case it’s true. When I was a kid in Detroit, my nickname was the “Civil Rights Kid” and the reason for that is every time the ACOU or somebody needed a plaintiff my mother would say, “Here, take Ray,” and I’m the lead plaintiff for about five cases, three of them federal, in Detroit and that’s my mother’s doing. I was a kid, I think I was seven the first time so it wasn’t my decision.

	D:	Oh wow.



	R:	So my mother was a community organizer in sports and block clubs. You name it and she organized it and I think that’s where we got that from. My mother also did things as a kid we hated. We always had a stranger at the table. Every Sunday my mother would bring someone to dinner that was a stranger and she met them in a nursing home or their parents were in the nursing home and they were lonely and whatever. So I have about twenty-five aunts and uncles. She’s made up people and I keep thinking one of them will be successful and they’d give me some money and die and leave me some money but all they do is die and I buy them flowers. So we had a lot of that in our household. A lot and I try—I tell people every day of my life we have an obligation in my household, in our household, all of my mother’s children. We have to do one good deed a day. I’ve





decided to make you my good deed and get this out of the way because if we haven’t at six o’clock we have to do something. So when were kids, we’d go next door and an old lady named Mrs. Rose, she was always old. I think she was born old. We used to go shovel her snow or rake her grass or do whatever every day at six o’clock before five of us kids go to her house, wash her windows. I mean her house was nicer than ours because we had done our good deed and I still live by that. We do that every day. My sister, my brother and I do that every day of our life and again, I come in the morning and I generally have some good deed lined up and I do it.

	D:	Well thank you definitely, I’m glad to be a good deed for today. What was it that led you eventually to Mississippi?

	R:	I had been an intern for Congressman Charles C. Davis Jr. and he was a congressman for Mississippi. [Laughter] Now, you should laugh at that because I tell you he was a congressman from Detroit.

	D:	Right.



	R:	But, the people in Mississippi, Black, couldn’t get any help from their members of Congress so when they would have a social security problem or something, the NAACP would direct them to a Northern congressman and I could try to run through the numbers but there was a congressman from Chicago, Los Angeles, at that point of course in New York, Diggs’s from Detroit and a little later, Conyers, John Conyers Jr. from Detroit. Those were the early members. So I think there were two from Gallatin. So there might have been five Black members, six Black members, and so again they kinda had the nation divided up.





Adam Clayton Powell took New England and Delaware and all that stuff all the way down. I think he had Georgia and Florida, North and South Carolina, Virginia. Now, sometimes especially in Florida—Pepper, a Congressman Pepper who was White of course and very famous and he would help Black folks out so I can remember discussions that they didn’t have to do much for Black folks in Florida. And you couldn’t go to them except when you had extreme problems because they didn’t have any extra staff or anything to do this, so it was a real burden on them. So when there was trouble in Mississippi, Diggs would often get involved. So, he offered to pay for me. Remember I’m in a very poor family. We don’t have any money and Diggs offered to pay for me to go to James Meredith’s second march. A Meredith had been shot of course in the first one, and so Diggs paid. It was fascinating and of course, you know, Diggs probably hoped to get lots of publicity and not go down there and worry getting his skull cracked. And he told me to not get my skull cracked neither and so that’s how I ended up going and probably was his idea and I had to beg and beg and beg my mother. I was seventeen years old. No I’m sorry, sixteen years old and that’s how I got to go.

Now, when the—that’s it in a nutshell.



	D:	Okay and what was it like when you came down to Mississippi? I’m guessing this was your first time in Mississippi?

	R:	Yes. I’ve been to Alabama. I knew how to act. D:	Okay.

	R:	We had been to Alabama every summer, I don’t know, from the time I was eight years old I think until I was seventeen. So, in Union Town it was classic apartheid





and Black folks could not vote. You got off the sidewalk if White people came along. Most Black people walked in the street so they wouldn’t have to be humiliated by getting off the sidewalk and you were in the store, you were in line to buy something, someone White came in you gave them cuts. I mean, they were all humiliating activities and we learned how to do it and when I was about ten, my mother got arrested in Loveman’s Department Store for trying on a hat. She had forgotten or didn’t know that Black people could not try on hats and what they did is you told them your hat size and they gave you a band and you put the band on to make sure it was your hat size and then you bought the hat without ever trying it on and if it didn’t fit, tough. You couldn’t return it and Loveman’s Department Store had a rule that Black people could not return clothing. So yeah, it was just all this humiliation and so we knew how to act and of course that’s one of the really many reasons I wanted to go in the first place because I spent all that time in Alabama. We would spend three weeks every summer at my grandfather’s and it really was bad. You’d go into town maybe once a week because you were afraid of an incident or something happening.

	D:	Okay.



	R:	So we went to—you go to Memphis and we flew into Memphis and it was the first time that I was ever on an airplane. I’m trying to remember if I’m telling the truth about that. [Laughter] I went to the United Nations the same year. Now my brain isn’t working. Which one I did first. Actually, that’s not true. I’m sorry. That was the first time I was ever on an airplane, so that was fascinating for me. I was a sixteen year old kid. Now we had taken a train to the United Nations about two





months earlier. I went to a peace meeting and then I took a plane to New York later that year probably a month after I got back from Mississippi. So I went on a plane twice that year. So it was big stuff.

	D:	Okay.



	R:	And Memphis was interesting and then we went of course to Cincinnati and then stepped off from Cincinnati. So we went to Sunflower. I’m trying to get my memory back here but we went to Sunflower County and then we—I’m trying to remember. We all gathered and we started walking and we had the National Press with us. We had New York Times, NBC News and four or five other UPS [Laughter] United Press, whatever it’s called, and so we felt halfway safe and during the beginning of the evening of the second night, a truck came along speeding on the road and there were about eighteen and nineteen of us and the truck came along and drove us all off the road down into a gully. We got all muddy and everything and then the sheriff and deputies came right along behind within minutes and arrested us for trespassing on some farmer’s land who was standing there complaining that we were on his land and we were arrested for trespassing, getting off the road onto private property. So the owner of the land was in cahoots with the truck driver and the sheriff and they had arranged it all in advance. It was clear as the nose on your face. And then they hauled us all into the little jail and they slapped me around. They decided I had on a stupid shirt, and I had on a cowboy shirt. Don’t ask why but it was one of those cowboy shirts. Kind of a phony silk. I’m sure it’s satin and I still have it. I have it in a box right here. I’m planning to give it to the new African American Museum but I’ve been





busy getting mailing it since last June. And it’s in my office on a shelf and I took it down last week to mail it and I didn’t feel all that good that day. I didn’t know I had the flu. I just thought I had a little cold and I said, “I can’t take this over to the American Express unless I feel good.” You know, when I give away my shirt I have to feel good. So I put it back on the shelf and the next day I woke up with the flu and so it’s ten days later and I still have my shirt and it’s the fifth or sixth time I have not sent it off. They ask me for it every six weeks. They ask me for it. I say, “Oh, I’ll put it right in the mail.” So, anyway I got a friend coming next Monday. He’s gonna photograph it and to my amazement I found out I can get in it, I can’t button but I can get in it [Laughter] so we decided we’re going to button it up and hold it up in front of me like a t-shirt and photograph me standing behind it and then I’m gonna give it away. I’m excited about that.

	D:	Yeah.



	R:	But that was their official reason for beating me up and I’m the only one they really beat up. Now James Roth, R-O-T-H, was a young student from New York whose father was a big shot and I can’t remember if he was president or executive president vice president of a New York bank. You know, big bank and I wanna tell you, because this is kind of official I’m not gonna tell you the name of the bank because I’m probably wrong. They change their name every six weeks now but I’ve been planning to try to find James Roth. I haven’t spoken to him in forty years and kind of thank him again and I can remember thanking him profusely at the time and writing him a letter when I got home and because his father sent down a private detective with a bribe, a real bribe. And they gave it to





the sheriff and they let us out and Roth bailed out the four of us that were all in the cell together. So it’s, you know, kind of crooked sheriff taking—and actually again, I have all these things in life I wanna do. One of them is I would just love to take a week and try to get the arrest records and look at who the sheriff was and I’d love to go to the FBI and see if I could get him indicted. You know, you have all these things. I’m not bitter or anything and I have a very strange view about all of this stuff. Their stupidity, their violence against civil rights activists is what really brought us the civil rights laws and I mean, Lyndon Johnson wanted to do it and Dr. King of course is leading the effort and I think it would have taken another twenty years if they hadn’t been so violent and so much incrimination and just unwavering, unwilling to compromise. If they had any sense they would’ve put a whole lot of things. They would have said, “Yes, yes, yes,” and do them or not do them. Except their answer was total defiance and total violence and if you think about this it’s really unbelievable to be able to get away with this in a democracy for ten to twelve years and they just got worse and worse and finally the majority of Americans said, “This is absurd. What are you doing?” So there is James Meredith turned into a national figure. First he’s the first admittee to the University of Mississippi so he’s already a national name and figure and then someone shoots him. You just have to think about this for a second and then when we go back, kind of a ceremonial “I didn’t die” march and they come and arrest him and brutalize us. You talk about ignorant, so I’m never quite angry with them. I mean I should be. You know, they killed people. They humiliated millions of people. You know I was telling you about how we had to act in Union





Town. You just think about that for a second and about people not being able to vote or serve on juries. It’s hard for people to imagine seventy-five, eighty percent of Black people have no rights. That it is an apartheid society. But the way they acted in Sunflower County, Mississippi in the like helped to change all that because Americans like to lie. They have good spirits and they like to pretend things are not as bad as they are, but no matter how they are they like to pretend they’re not. Well, sometimes you cannot pretend. It gets so out of hand and the national media is present and everybody sees it and instead of saying, “Oops I didn’t do that,” they go, “Yeah and I won’t do it again.” So, it was a fascinating time and will probably never be repeated again and the power of Dr. King’s teachings of nonviolence, it’s one of the successful crusades in the history of the world.

	D:	Yeah, you mentioned that you also went to the United Nations. I was wondering what was that about.

	R:	Well we were—I think the UN still does it. They just bring five thousand kids a year and sit around and say you’re interested in peace and you learn stuff and of course, I think the first time I went it was just Americans and the second time it was people from all over the world. So it’s more of rubbing shoulders than much else. This is for fourteen to seventeen year old kids and so we sat in the United Nations in the general assembly chamber. I mean it was a big, big, big stuff to a sixteen year old kid and the first time I went, we met Hubert Humphrey. It was interesting. It was educational. We weren’t changing the world. We were probably changing ourselves. I tell people, somebody asked me to do something





on gun control the other day and I said I didn’t have a lot of time and they got a little angry with me. I said, “No I’m doing all this social media stuff. You know, I get a thing a day.” I’m well-connected or too connected and I get a thing a day asking me to do this or do that and donate ten dollars and so I have done twenty- five to thirty things and they wanted me to drive about sixty miles to give a talk and I said I didn’t have time and they got angry with me. And I said to them, “Hold on a second,” and my assistant has put online all of my speaking engagements from age twenty nine to the present because I used to have old- fashioned date books and he took them and when he gets five free minutes he puts them on and by subject matter and what I talked about and I have given twenty-one speeches on gun control. So we sent it to him and told him, “I’m sure I’ll give another but just not today. Leave me alone.” I was telling you that because I really have been involved as a civil rights person all my life and it’s fascinating. It’s amazing what civil rights, but, all kinds of things are. Gay marriage being the newest civil rights and by the way, these are things you can’t even dream up. You know, I tell people when Patrick Kennedy asked me ten years ago if I thought he should take some leadership on gay marriage and I said, “No Patrick, you’ve done enough controversy. Gay marriage isn’t gonna come alive for another twenty years.” That’s what I said to him. [Laughter] I was as wrong as I’ve ever been on anything and to see the progress in the ten years is unbelievable and I think the Supreme Court next week may surprise us all and do the right thing and this will be the first civil rights movement that has advanced this fast in the history of America. It just—gay marriage actually got talked about





in some big way in about 1979 or [19]80 but was not a movement until the year 2000 basically and you know in California, San Francisco so, it’s just unbelievable to see the progress... just I don’t know and I tell people, I’m happy to be a big player and that’s what I think everyone needs to do. Everybody on the planet, anytime you see a cause, and now you can do it with social media and the like. You can donate your ten dollars and you can write to the entire United States Senate with a click, and that’s what I urge people to do now. Instead of ten or twelve thousand leaders, there ought to be one million on every single Civil rights matter. One million people giving five minutes a day can shape the world.

	D:	I know you mentioned you don’t have very much time. I know you’re on the clock.



So I have one follow up question for you. I know you mentioned a lot of things that you wanted to do and I was just trying to get a better idea of what some of those things were. If you had the free time to do it.

	R:	Oh yeah.



	D:	That sort of thing.



	R:	Someone will listen to this and send me a big check and I’ll take the summer off and I’ll do one of my projects. Not even a big check, ten thousand. The reason I need ten thousand is to give half of it away to someone that assisted me. Here’s an example of something, it doesn’t sound like a civil rights issue, but it’s part of the racial problem and divide in this country. I do lots of Black history and cultural awareness. We know that being a member of the Daughters of the American Revolution is a very prestigious thing and they have five or six Black members now and that’s only in the last seventeen or eighteen years. I think a woman from





Philadelphia fought her way in and they might have ten members, but in comparison to their thousands, I don’t want to state the number, but you know the tens of thousands of White members. So I have in my position, a list of ninety White slave owners and the names of their ninety slaves that they sent as substitutes to go to the American Revolution and fight for them so they didn’t have to go. And a third of the folks on there, their descendants, the White slave owners, their descendants are members of the Daughters of the American Revolution, illegally. You can’t be a member unless your ancestor fought, and they didn’t fight. They sent Black slaves in their place, and so you think how disgusting this is. It’s hypocrisy, it’s a lie. And in some of the cases, of course, the slaves got killed and you have the audacity to sign up for something when your ancestor didn’t serve and even sent a substitute who got killed. So the slave didn’t even get the freedom out of it because they got killed and this is the ultimate hypocrisy and of course, the Daughters know these women are lying but it’s okay. Now, do I want to publically challenge them and say, “Shame on you, you got to get out”? No, I want the opposite. I would like to create an argument and ask them to put up some money so that we can research the descendants of the slaves so that they can join. So that their descendants can join the Daughters of the American Revolution. Now that’s a lot of work. This is probably a three or four hundred thousand dollar project. Now I just need ten thousand bucks because I’ve been asked the National Endowment for the Arts to pay for such a study, but I would have to take six weeks or eight weeks to write the grant and I just don’t have the time to take to do that and then I have to hire—it costs that





much money because you gotta hire two or three really fabulous researchers to do the work. Finding Black folks two hundred twenty-five years later and their descendants is going to be work. I’ve identified four or five just over the years. Four or five families that exist. One in Connecticut and three in Rhode Island, so this is a national project by the way. What I do is just those ninety people. You know, there’re thousands of Black folks but you gotta have a limit and you also have to prove that you can do it and so, that’s what I would do. That would be my little civil rights undertaking if I just had free time I would do. So, you are making—this tape goes where?

	D:	This tape will be in our repository at the University of Florida along with a whole bunch of oral histories that we have. We have about three hundred we’ve done in the last three years and we have probably another hundred or so that have been done prior to us coming here.

	R:	And do you have anything related to Rhode Island other than me, semi? D:	I don’t believe we do. Most of our collection concentrates on Florida and

Mississippi. So you may be our first Rhode Island interview.



	R:	[Laughter]



	D:	But I will be in Boston this summer, so we might be able to get some more interviews in that area.

	R:	And most of your work needs to relate to the South?



	D:	No there’s actually—it’s the African American History Project. It’s just tended to relate in Florida and Mississippi because we’ve been trying to highlight Jim Crow Civil Rights Era in Florida specifically and then it kinda branched out from there.





	R:	Let me say goodbye and feel free to call me anytime. D:	Sounds good, thank you.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:  Sandra Romero, February 16, 2017 Audit-edited by: Cristina Rodriguez, March 26, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 23, 2019