AAHP 376; Williams; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 376 Bernard Williams African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Derick Gomez on April 25, 2015 2 hours, 14 minutes | 63 pages



Abstract: Mr. Bernard Williams is being interviewed by Derick Gomez in White Springs, Florida on 25 April 2015. The interview begins with tracing Mr. Williams’ family migration to White Springs. Mr. Williams then describes the race relations in White Springs as he was growing up. Mr. Williams was the first Black male to graduate from high school in White Springs; he notes that education for Blacks in White Springs only went through eighth grade until 1949. There is conversation about his ongoing mission to convert the disused Carver School into a community center for the town. Mr. Williams discusses segregation, various May Day celebrations in North Florida, the German prison camp in White Springs, his time in the military, and his career in education.



Keywords: [African American History; Hamilton County, Florida; May Day; Education; military]











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 376

Interviewee: Bernard Williams Interviewer: Derick Gomez Date: April 25, 2015



	G:	So, hello. It’s April 25th, 2015. I’m Derick Gomez from the Sam Proctor Oral History Project, and we’re here with—

	W:	Bernard L. Williams.



	G:	—in White Springs. So I’ll just go ahead and start. So, where were you born, and in what year?

	W:	I was born right here in White Springs, January 21st, 1933.



	G:	Okay. Can you tell me a little bit about your childhood? How White Springs was like when you were growing up?

	W:	[Laughter] Okay. Well, you had no integration in that time, you know? I grew up in the—almost the same neighborhood I’m living right now, just about where my grandparents were. Went to school here in White Springs. Well, that’s all I can say. It was just a typical small town, country town. We had—made our own fun. [inaudible 1:13] things we did after school, and school during the daytime. I think we had the best school around. All the teachers who teached us were really interested in what the kids did. I think I started school early. I hear that’s a lot of us, and some of the kids my age, because I had a first grade teachers who wanted to keep me along with my cousin, and he was a year older than me. So, I say I started school a little early. But she wanted to promote me along with my cousin, but my mother said no. My mother was a teacher also. You should know. I was not ready for second grade yet, so I went first grade again. And the teacher who taught me in first grade, she retired that year, and her daughter came in the next year and start teaching. I enjoyed it. They were very good folks.





	G:	All right, and can you tell me a little bit about your parents—what their names were, what they did?

	W:	My mother’ name was Mary Graham—Mary Williams, really. My dad was in Miami. I used to live with my grandparents most of the time, and she was there also. She was teaching over in Suwannee County, in a little area called Ruined Settlement, but I stayed with my grandparents. And she was there when she came home on the weekends, ‘til she got married.

	G:	Okay, and—go ahead, I’m sorry.



	W:	No, that’s about it. My grandparents were two of the leaders in the town, especially my granddaddy.

	G:	And you said that they were leaders in the town, what did they do?



	W:	No, I mean so far as, they were very well thought of by everybody. Black, White, Purple, Green, whatever you want to say about it. Especially my granddaddy, he’s—he, I don’t know how to say it… He didn’t take a whole bunch of trash. Off of anybody. White, Black. He treated everybody nice, and he expected that out of everybody else. He expected us to do the same thing. We didn’t do anything because the person’s White or whatever, we did it, because he say it was right to do. Like when you say “yes sir,” “no sir”; we had to say that to everybody. And if somebody came home and told him we did something—I did something—and I said, “No, I didn’t,” then I got a whooping. That’s a grown person you calling a liar. You don’t do that. So, kind of way we grew up.

	G:	Can you tell me a little bit more about your grandparents? What they did?





	W:	My granddaddy, he was a moonshiner. He got hurt. He came here much earlier. He migrated here to White Springs. My grandmother was born across the river over here, Springville settlement. When he came here, it was—he kind of moved from an area where some stuff happened. I’m not going to talk about what happened at that time. But, when he was a kid, it was his daddy moved over to Suwannee County, and that’s where they moved when they came, migrated to this area. In fact, my grandmother’s parents migrated to Florida also, in a wagon train.

	G:	Oh, okay. Where from?



	W:	Up in Georgia, somewhere. It was good family here. Built in Springville. They most of them settled in the Springville area, across from over here. The Grooms, the Taylors. It was quite a history.

	G:	Yeah, it sounds like it. Do you have any stories that your grandparents or parents would tell you growing up about just coming to White Springs? A little bit more about—?

	W:	No, he didn’t talk about that a whole lot. We used to sit around the fireplace at night, and he would tell me this, sort of what happened with his parents. My granddaddy was related to the Kings family somewhere down the line. His mother used to go catch the train to Atlanta, and go visit them. She was a very religious person, and that came from that background also. It’s a long story, I’m not going to tell that part of it. It was—well, you know what used to happen to a lot of Blacks in areas, they would do things and have to leave community and all





that stuff. And wind up, his daddy defending himself, and killed a guy. In fact,



two. A Black and a White guy. They left town that day. Never went back again.



G:  Do you want to share anything about that story? And if you don’t, that’s completely fine, too.

W:  Well, I tell you: I didn’t know my great-granddaddy. Because he was passed when I—. But, Daddy said he was a slave up in Georgia, and I think General Giles was—I know you’ve probably heard of that name.

G:   Yeah, I have heard of him.



	W:	John Giles up in Georgia. He was a good slave master. He had given us some land. And this guy wanted this land that he had. And he paid another Black guy to kill him. But another White man came and told him, “Watch out for him!” Well, on Sunday morning, for some reason he didn’t go to church with his momma, and they was just out there looking over the field—you know, farmers used to do that long time ago, go on and stand out there and see what they got to do the next week and plan out what they had to do. And he didn’t go, he was at the house. And his daddy’s out in the field, and he saw this guy that was supposed to kill him come across the field. And he shot at him. Well, he got on his knees and hollered for my granddaddy to bring him his gun. Well, he did. The guy didn’t know he had it. The guy came up and started shooting at him again, and he shot and killed him. Well, the White guy sitting on the horse over there. “Well, this— ain’t going shoot me.” He started firing from his horse. Great-granddaddy shot and killed him. And they left town that same evening. It was my granddaddy, his sister, and his momma. And he never went back again.





	G:	Okay. And that’s how the family ended up in—?



	W:	Well, he went up to Suwannee County, and that’s where he met my grandmother at. Over Suwannee County over here. Suwannee and Columbia County, back in that area back in there. It was pretty good—pretty large family. Migrated different places in Florida. Down in Cocoa, and Jacksonville, place like that.

	G:	Okay. And then coming back to White Springs. What was White Springs like when you were growing up?

	W:	White Springs was a small town. The spring house is out here. We couldn’t go in it, you know. [Laughter] But the German prisoners were able to go in there during the war. People, they talked about nothing to do about it. But they reserved a time, I think it was a Saturday or Sunday, for the German prisoners go in. There was a German prison camp here. Right down the street down here. In fact, they worked right down off of where we live now. [Inaudible 10:13]. But anyway, it was a typical—we used to come down here on Saturdays to the Adam Brothers’ Store down here. That’s where they used to shop at, right at the store there, on Saturdays. Right next to the store was—what’s the lady’ name? They had a little shop there, we used to go and get ice cream. Oh, shoot, I couldn’t think of the lady’ name. But we’d meet down there by the store down there, [inaudible 10:50] wrestle, and shoot marbles, stuff like that. And it was—we didn’t have a lot of—I’ll say, problems between Blacks and Whites at that time. They had, I mean, you have some that were prejudiced around. But there were a lot there weren’t that way. White Springs has always been a pretty good town. Lot of us—that stuff didn’t come out here, but it came out in other areas. I don’t know. But anyway,





that’s the way—it’s been a pretty good town. I’ve lived here all my life; except when I was in the Service and in college, I’ve been here.

	G:	What do you think made White Springs different than a lot of Florida, and a lot of the greater South, in terms of race relations?

	W:	I think it’s the way people treated each other. Background—I mean their families.



It was a lot of reliance on each other, too, for working and all that. It was some racial problems, racial, but there were no problems like this. We had—there were a lot of Blacks in this town that didn’t take a bunch of junk, regardless who you were. And it was a thing, I guess people say, “I want to live anyway, because they might kill me just as long as”—it was no lynching and all that stuff around here. Well, people got along pretty well. We’ve had fights. You know, the guys fighting in the hood, all, and that stuff, run-ins. But nothing real serious. White Springs always been a good town.

	G:	All right, can you think of any of the community centers, any places that you used to go to—?

	W:	We had nothing here to go to except church. There are a few beer taverns. But those kids couldn’t go in there. If you went in that door, word got out here. “You got no business in here!” That happened for years. We didn’t have young guys going to prison like they do now. If one of the adults saw you doing something, and they say something to you, you better listen to them. Because they went home and told your parents, you got butt-whooping. Wasn’t no ifs, ands, or buts about that. And you didn’t call adult a liar. That’s just one of the things. It was— you heard about ‘it takes community to raise community?’ Well, that community





raised the kids. All of them in White Springs. The Black community raised the Black kids in White Springs. They see them doing something, “Keep it up I’m going tell your momma,” or “tell your daddy.” I remember one day—you know, like, in school, a teacher’d beat your butt. If you didn’t have your spelling work done in spelling, you got a lick for every word you missed. So that made you study. I remember distinctly—see, my dad was principal of the school here in White Springs for years. He’s actually my stepfather, he’s my daddy because he raised me all my life.

	G:	And was that Carver, the school?



	W:	Mmhm, mmhm. It used to be a Rosenwald School. Now you remember what those Rosenwald Schools were, don’t you? Because you gone through the history, so you know Rosenwald.

	G:	Yes sir.



	W:	But it was Rosenwald School. It was… Well, the teachers had control of your school. And they would go and tell your parents what you did. That parent got on your butt. You were going respect that teacher, regardless what happened. And you’d go on. I remember Ms. Bennett was teaching music, and her sister was teaching home economics. And I was in music class one evening, and one of the guys did something—Walton Mose. Mose did it, now. A joke. Ms. Archer thought it was me; she cut me a couple of times with one of them long black gum switches. Boy, I am going to tell my momma. I got home later and said—they had to walk to my house going home, because, you know, they didn’t have no cars.

So I told grandmomma, and she said, “Okay, well I’ll see Ms. Bennett.” So when





they walked by the house, she stopped them. She said, “How y’all doing?” “Fine.” “Ms. Archer.” “Well, Bernard say y’all had some problems.” Say, “Yes ma’am, he was in the room there cutting up and I hit him a couple times with a switch.” She say, “I tell you what: evidently, you didn’t do enough. When you get back tomorrow, give it to him again.” And they left. “Go get me a switch.” You had to cut your own switches. [Laughter] So, that kind of cut things out for them.

Running home and tell momma what teachers did. But we had good teachers who were real Christianized people, who were real sincere in what they did. Our school for a long time went through eighth grade. We didn’t have a high school here. Like I said, my stepfather came here and [inaudible 17:34]. And he ran the school from that day until the school closed. He brought the school, I think, from the sixth grade to eighth grade, eighth grade to tenth grade. And after tenth grade, you had to leave and go to Lake City, Live Oak, Jasper. Of course, a lot of people went down south, like Miami, a lot of people finished high school. Some went to Jacksonville. We didn’t have a graduate here until 1949. One girl graduated. She would’ve been two with my cousin, but my aunt sent him to Hackensack, New Jersey to his uncle there, who that was the front way to finish. So, we finally got to twelfth grade here. Finished, and we only had one girl graduate that year. Girl named Mary Lee Rivers. She graduated. She went to A&M that next year. And the next year, there were three people graduated. There was Margaret McClellan, Doris Leshton, and myself. I was the first boy to graduate from White Springs, from the school here in White Springs. Yeah. And the next year, I think there was two people: Luddie Mae and Janet Udell. You





probably know Janet Udell, Lawrence Udell’ mother. Right down there. Well anyway, she was in that third graduating class. And the next year, I believe it was Howard McCleod. He graduated by himself, I believe. That’s the way it was at the school here. The school right down here, we couldn’t go to it. We’d get passed hand-me-down books. All the White kids’ names in them and all that, you know. But we used them. And I think we were better prepared than a lot of them were. I know that’s what happened in Union County when I worked down there; our kids—when I finished college, I did work at the beginning out in Chandler.

Wound up being [Inaudible 19:45] with law enforcement, because he needed me to do this for him. But that next semester, I went to Lake Butler to work. And our kids were very well prepared. When they integrated the schools, they had— during that time, we used to call it “Freedom of Choice Plan.” Eleventh and twelfth grade had to go to the high school. Below that, you can choose which one you want to go to first. But anyway, when our kids went there to Union County High School at that time, they were the top of the class. In the top ten percent of that class, when they were there.

	G:	That’s really amazing. W:	And we were proud of it.

	G:	Yeah, that’s something to be proud of.



	W:	Yeah, we, like I said, had a lot of people in the community who didn’t graduate from high school earlier, because they only went to tenth grade—just like we did here. There was a school right down the street, but they couldn’t go. But they only went to tenth grade. They all just bussed, I think. Or, some people went to





Alachua County. Over Alachua so they could finish high school. I came in, that was in 1960, and they just started a school about two years earlier I think it was. High school. And we had good teachers, good principal who was dedicated. The community was like, down there, like it was before it was here, about the same number of students, who supported the teachers. That’s, the community supported the teachers here. We didn’t have an adult education program around there. We had a lot of people who worked at the prison, but they just couldn’t get promotions, because they hadn’t finished high school. So in 1964, I took a little leave and went and got my Master’s. And Dave Jenkins and I started an adult education program in Union County and had great success with it. In fact, it is still going on there. Of course, the same school we started. Nobody down there know why that thing started. Now, we got a guy out of town—I’ll never forget his name: Jim Wright. Come in. Come on, John. That’s my brother there.

	G:	Hi, how’s it going?



	J:	Okay, how you doing? W:	Come and sit down, man.

	J:	I thought you were coming back.



	W:	So anyway, it was successful then. It’s kept on going.



	G:	Do you want to introduce yourself? Do you want you want to be part of this interview, too?

	J:	I—no, I don’t have to be. I’m his brother, but I never lived here. I just been coming here for years and years and years. I’m from Miami.

	G:	If there is anything at any time—





	J:	But I live in Albuquerque.



	G:	Okay. If at any point there’s something that you want to add, something that you have any recollection of, just feel free. Can you introduce yourself real quick for the recording?

	J:	Oh, yeah. John Goldsmith. I’m Bernard’s brother. One of his younger brothers. [Laughter]

	W:	There were five of us, wasn’t it? J:	Yeah.

	G:	All right. Do you remember any other teacher that you had growing up? Any teachers that had a big impact on you or on your upbringing?

	W:	Okay. My first grade teacher, Miss Bennett. Mamie Bennett. She retired after that for a year. And she was also a musical teacher. Her daughter came in and taught first grade then and music. Her name was Rosebud Bennett. And then, her other sister taught Home Economics. That was Miss Archie Bennett. That was her daughters. Ms. Folleen Anderson, who’s the third, fourth grade teacher. Fourth grade. And she was one that didn’t play anything. You missed a spelling word, you got a licking. You don’t see that pass. [Laughter]

	G:	It’s so different now.



	W:	Yeah. She used to have a long switch about like that. They tied them together.



All black, it wasn’t gray. And she used to put that switch. And they say, “I’m going tell momma!” She say, “Go tell your momma. I’ll just whip your momma, too.” But she did actually whip the mommas, too, and the mommas supported them. And we didn’t, I don’t remember a time where one of the young guys around here





went to prison. Now it’s coming up. Our school burned in 1946. [Inaudible 25:03] It was burning on January 1946. It was a Monday night. We were in [Inaudible 25:10] to play basketball. Came back and we saw the fire. We thought the grass was burning, but it was the building that burned. That was all left of it.

	G:	And how did it burn? Do you know? Was it natural?



	W:	Okay. We had wood heaters in that place. And somebody didn’t take the coal out of the heater or something. I think they put in a basket or something, and this was the thing happened. And it caught that way. And those wood buildings, it didn’t take long for them to burn if you didn’t notify the department, the fire department on that. But anyway, we had no school. My granddaddy had a couple of houses down off there, where some other people lived. And we went to school down there a couple of days. Then they got two army barracks, and moved them up to the school, where the old school is down there. And then they had another place, they called it KP Hall. Those two-story buildings. And that’s where the seventh through twelfth grade went. That’s where we went to school there for the whole time we were in high school. One big room.

	G:	And that was all the grades, seventh through high school was all in this one room?

	W:	Yeah. We only had three teachers up there, I think it was. Mr. Graham was the principal. He taught English. Then Ms. Burgess came, she was one of the teachers then. She taught science and social studies, I believe. And we had one male teacher. Who was that at that time? I can’t think of who that was. But anyway, that’s where we finished school. Seventh and eighth grade took the





same classes. Then the next year, the eighth and ninth grade took the same classes. See, that’s where—

	G:	That’s how they made it work.



	W:	They made it work that way. You would take some classes with one person, one groups of kids, and another one with another group of kids. It was like that. But they worked, they had it worked out. That’s the way your one-room schools worked for years in rural areas. We had a school out here in the country called Black Bay. My aunt taught out there. Then my mother taught in a one-room school over in Suwannee County called Ruined Settlement. She was the only teacher. And then she moved. She taught here at Swift Creek out here. Until they brought her to Carver. And Aunt Sadie came there, too. She—I’m trying to remember who it was there. They had different teachers come in from that time on. They were here a year, two years, some of the other teachers were. But we had some that stayed here for always. We never had a lot of teachers. We never had typing classes, because that was really given to the school down here. Well anyway, I’m trying to put it together. We had an African who came in, named Meko. He taught here. That’s one of the names that I think was in that book, in the paper. That name was in the book over there. Elijah Rhodes, John Green is some men. Granice Tucker, Live Oak. He was a mayor that taught. But I was gone from elementary school, so I wasn’t here when that happened. Most of those people here. Because when I left—let’s see, I graduated in 1950. Like I said, there were only three of us during that time. I don’t know. I don’t know. I can’t remember all that stuff happened during back—that’s been a long time.





	G:	No, but you remembered a lot. That was a pretty vast recollection. It’s really helpful.

	W:	But anyway, we went to K.P. Hall, and stay there until, I think it was [19]52. No. Here or there. The year they built the school out here, I think that was in the late [19]50s.

	G:	So that was after your time?



	W:	Early [19]60s. I’m not sure. When they built the Carver School. That’s when the



K.P. Hall kids left K.P. Hall. Everybody went and started down there. I guess I was in the Service during that time.

	G:	Do you have any idea where your educators went to school for their higher education? For their teaching degrees?

	W:	Where did they go? Okay. Most of the teachers here during that time, they didn’t have their full degree. They were going to colleges that weren’t certified at the time. But they had go back and get the certification, get their degrees from a certified school. Most of them went to Fam [FAMU] after they finished. Or like Florida Memorial in St. Augustine. That’s where I finished. I started at Fam, went to Sarasota, and went down to Florida Memorial. Then I was in EWC in Jacksonville. A lot of people went to EWC to finish high school. Because they had a high school there also. I think that’s where my mother finished high school, there, and went to college there also later on. We had a lot of teachers come from Fam. And there’s some from EWC. Like my wife, she came out of EWC. I know we had a couple came out of Alabama. They were ladies. South Carolina. They were coming in—there were some who wanted to go work, and they went





on to go to college, took college classes, in order to get their certification. So, it’s pretty rough on them. The only school that’s in this area here—the closest one is Fam, with their certification. Florida Memorial was in St. Augustine at that time, before it moved to Miami. It moved to Miami later on after I graduated. Ed Waters, Jacksonville. That was it.

	G:	Do you think that most of the educators that were in this area were from this area? That they went out to get their certification either at Fam or in Jacksonville and that they came back? Or were there a lot of people that were from outside of the area that came in?

	W:	There were a lot of people from outside the area. The ones that left and got their certification from this area came back and stayed. They made it home. Ms.

Reddick, Ms. Bryant, Ms. Jefferson, Ms. Roundtree. Who else is there? I said Reddick... We had one teacher died in the classroom. Heart Attack. Ms.—I can’t think of the name, and I’m looking at her right now!

	G:	Oh, you remembered a lot. It’s real impressive. W:	Meko went back to Africa.

	G:	Do you know from what country in Africa he was from? W:	What?

	G:	Do you know from what country from Africa he was from?



	W:	No, I don’t. He has some grandchildren in the county. I know one or two of them. G:	Do you know their names?

	W:	No. His daughter died a few years ago. She taught in the county. I think her mother’s still living. But I know the daughter died. In fact, if she hadn’t died, we





would’ve had the Carver School redone by now. Because she was our president, she was vice-president of the DW Grant Community Development Center Corporation. And that was our goal: to put that school back together as a community education and recreation center. But we had some people come in and decide they wanted to take it over. I won’t even talk about that.

	G:	You don’t want to talk about that? W:	Well, I’ll tell you happened.

	G:	I’d love to hear it.



	W:	After I retired, one of the guys had been working to PCS out here, and he went to Jacksonville to work with [Inaudible 36:24]. And he had tried to get up on the Bureau Club. He had had a deed on the school down there. But for so many years he had done things. But when he got relieved, he asked me and the other guy if we would do something with it. So I said, okay. We sat down, and we developed a plan. Organized, and got a 501(c)(3), and all this stuff for the—I’ll show you some of that stuff.

	G:	Okay, yeah.



	W:	But we had no monies. And I wasn’t aware then of some of the grant monies, how to get the grant monies. And this city manager here at the time wanted the property. He pretended—

	G:	The property where the Carver School—?



	W:	Where the Carver School at now. And they got it, built a Dollar General, had planned to put housing down there. They say no, so the city council turned him down. And at that meeting, after the meeting, the mayor at the time, Joseph





McKire, he told us, “Look, I met a guy down in South Florida at a legal city meeting, and he said he went to school here in first and second grade. And he will be glad to come up here if you want, help put some stuff together—grants, that’s what they did in South Florida.” I say, “Fine.” He said, “Now, I don’t have his phone number.” Well, we used to stop down to S&S down there, and let the guys sit down there, run their mouth. And so, one of the guys—“Hey, I know him! That’s my cousin. I got his phone number at home.” So he brought his phone number in that Thursday, and I called the guy that Thursday night. Tuesday evening, he was sitting in my living room. And I talked about what we planned to do. I gave him a copy of my 501(c)(3) and my nonprofit organization paperwork; we had everything done. We just had to get some grant monies. I say, “Now, I can’t see you tomorrow morning, because I have to head over to the school where she’s going to do some volunteer work with them at the school.” That was my friend’s daughter, who was killed in an accident. I say, “But I’ll see you after lunch. Go down to city hall and talk to the manager. Because they say they’re going help us.” Well, he went down there, but he never talked to me again. They came up with some faith-based organization—which not, wasn’t really a faith- based organization, because the people who we pushed with it probably never heard—I’m going say it—they probably they never heard of “faith-based” before. I’m going to be frank, honestly. They took over and start making up this and that. And the town manager made it a habit to be a part of it, this faith-based thing.

They all [Inaudible 39:28] the people here. I was surprised at some of them, some of my good friends. But nothing ever happened. So I met up with them a





couple times, say, “Look: I’m not going work against a group that’s trying to get the same thing done that we want. Long as we get this done the way we want to get it, I’ll work with it. But I’m not going to just try to tear it down, like they would—

	G:	Of course. Of course.



	W:	So, I told them one day, I say, “I talked to the guy in Tallahassee today over historic preservations. There is money there, but we got to do the things a certain way.” “No, no! Ain’t no money, ain’t no money!” Said, “Okay, fine.” They didn’t want to put it together. I’m saying that. But anyway, they kept meeting with the managers. The city managers kept meeting with the school board to get them to turn the property over. Well, we had a lease on it. I paid the lease on it. It was a dollar a year lease. I paid the lease on it until 2009. [19]99 to 2009. I brought my check to the school board and showed it to them. And so I just told myself, “Look, I don’t want to try to handle that kind of money, because I am not financially—”

	G:	Yeah. That’s not your thing.



	W:	But the city, it would be nice, with the city working with it. They had to find the people down here that can handle all this stuff. Get the lease and all that stuff. So I told them, I said, “I’ll give up the lease, provided we do get everything done.” He say, “Yeah, we going do this, we going do this.” It never happened. Because he didn’t intend to do it. We were offered—in fact I got some of the stuff here.

	G:	Show me some of the paperwork?



	W:	But anyway, they said we wanted a few black schools anywhere in the area, and nothing has been done to them. You probably know that yourself now.

	G:	Yeah. Yeah.





	W:	You see? And we were in a position that they were trying to give us fifty thousand dollars for planning. Have the engineers to come in and go through and see what needed to be done to bring it up to standards. And do it in stages. Also, to possibly work out what we plan to do with it after we get it together: like the Educational Planning gave us info; we had it all in the file [Inaudible 42:20]. But, the town say, “Well, okay. We’ll get that together. We’ll work it all together.” And never did anything with it. Never. So, that left us out there with that. And since the city got it, we’ve got people still don’t want to do a thing with it. Now, you know that. You’ve probably seen that or heard that.

	G:	Yeah, I’ve heard that.



	W:	Yeah. See, “Oh, it got asbestos in it.” Every school in the area got asbestos in it somewhere. The only place where they had asbestos was in the boiler room, and that was sealed completely off by the—anyway, that was sealed off when Herm and them still had the place over there. And as long as it’s sealed off, nothing can happen, because we cut out there. It could be removed. But anyway, they did nothing with it. Never tried to. I went to the city, I said, “Why don’t we seek other grant money?” “Well, we want to build a new building.” Well, they’re not going to give you money to build a new community center. The one in Springville was done by the county commissioners. The ones in Lake City was done by the county commission and the city working together with their monies into it. We will never get a community center built here—well, you know that yourself. We will never get one built, because there’s no money to get it for us to build it. But there is historic preservation money in Tallahassee. And we stand a chance of getting





it better than any other school anyplace, anywhere around. And I think you aware of that, too.

	G:	Yeah.



	W:	But, “We want a new—we don’t want this.” And the whole thing is, we have a couple people envious of the family. Mr. Graham was a principal. “Why you name it after Mr. Graham?” He’s the only principal the school ever had! Who should we name it after? I’m serious. Who would you name it after?

	G:	Oh, I don’t know. It makes perfect sense.



	W:	The E.W. Graham Community Recreational Center Cooperative. That’s what we named it. I wasn’t the one who named it. I think I have a copy of it here. Oh, shoot. Oh, but this part of it right here. Oh, shoot!

	G:	Those were the plans for it, and all of the paperwork?



	W:	This is some of it here. I got all of it. I thought I had it all in this same packet here. Here’s some of the stuff here. [Shuffling through papers and narrating contents:] Here’s the bylaws. I thought I had all that stuff in this packet, here. This start.

Construction date—45—that’s, which page is that?



	G:	This one is page two. Is this page one? I can keep them in order if you want for you.

	W:	Here’s page one. Page two. This might be some of the same stuff. I don’t know what it is. I got all of it.

	G:	These look similar.



	W:	I have all that stuff at home.





	G:	Anything you might be able to copy? Tell me a little bit more about the Carver School and what it represents for the Black community here in White Springs.

	W:	It’s the only educational building we had. And we had planned—this is the number. I will look for it.

	G:	It is amazing how much paperwork they require for these things.



	W:	I have it all together, because I am trying to crop it up with everything we’re going to do with it.

	G:	Yeah, we can do that after.



	W:	And get it for you and let you look at it. We had everything done. Really want to [Inaudible 47:57] because to get activities, we plan to have cultural and recreational activities, educational. We had planned—well, one of the school board members was on the board with us—we’d planned to work the school board in getting somebody down in the afternoon to help with the tutoring that kids needed. It would be an asset to the total system. The Hope Program they have here now, that Hope Program was began by my daughter in 2003.

	G:	And what’s her name? W:	Huh?

	G:	What’s her name?



	W:	Nicole Williams, my daughter. [Inaudible 48:40] She and another young lady ran it for two years. In fact, the second year, I wrote a grant for two thousand dollars to help them get through that year, buy some stuff, and all that stuff. And then some of those things happened. But anyway, we wanted to—GEDs, TABE testing, because guys had to take the TABE test in order to get some of the jobs,





you know. Get the score and all that. TABE testing. We wanted some cultural activities. At that school, they used to have, senior citizens used to meet out there. Then the senior citizens were sewing out there at night, ceramics out there at night. Right at the school out there. It was empty. We wanted to put all that back in there. We wanted to put things back in there for the senior citizens to meet again out there. We wanted to have one area or one room out there so that—the city and county commissioners couldn’t have one damn meeting instead of [Inaudible 49:52]. They can come down, have a meeting here in another place like they do at the school sometimes. School board and whatnot couldn’t have a meeting. We wanted to have a place where the Boy Scouts and organizations like that could meet. And the classroom, because that [Inaudible 50:08], we wanted to make sure that the first ones on the first row was completely done. The two back ones could be put back together for a daycare.

We don’t have a daycare in White Springs. That’s what my daughter really wants to run, but she’s in nursing school right now. Okay, I talked with PAL. You know what PAL is? Police Athletic League. They were willing to work with us. I talked with Reed, the sheriff at the time, about sponsoring the parent league. He said, “That would be good, do it.” Because that would keep the kids off the street, give them something to do, and get their minds occupied, and teach them how to get along with each other. Just general things we wanted to get to do.

	G:	Yeah, some really important things.



	W:	These were the kind of things we worked with in the system, in the school. I was a counselor for umpteen years. But this is what we want to do at the school down





there. I wanted something that we can have every day down there, not just something where somebody want to have an activity you have here once this month, maybe next two or three months. This is what the community centers in other areas are doing. We have a drug problem here. We can work on that problem on this. These kids say, the young boys say—say, “Why you all drink so much?” “We ain’t got nothing else to do.” So they sit around, drink beer, and smoke. But if you had something for them to do, some activities for them to participate in: job searches, how to do interviews, applications; this would help these kids. Young boys and girls, too. It would get them off the street. It would be the biggest asset this town could ever have to get that place put together and put these kind of activities in there. We even talked about Suwannee Vo-Tech School, having them come over with courses, classes, something like this. I worked at Suwannee Vo-Tech before I retired. When I retired, I was financial aid director over there for six years. I was at the high school for six years. I was counselor at the high school over there in Suwannee before I retired. Then I worked at the prison for four years, CCA, as a principal out there for four years. We had a good education program at that time. Our GED school percentage went from thirty-two to something around ninety-eight percent.

	G:	Wow, that’s really incredible.



	W:	Our teachers were set. I had good bosses. And we used to take the teachers to the different areas where they can get some special training. The teachers were interested in what they were doing. We had a couple of teachers that didn’t like the way I did things. But they didn’t work there long. [Laughter] I believe that if a





inmate wanted to talk to me, come in and talk to me. As long as you in the educational system, program say you have a right to come in and talk to me. If they don’t, I’ll be looking for them. But anyway, I’m just—I don’t know. But that school is what I feel we need to do. My daughter get on city council next week? I think she will, hope she will—

	G:	Okay, is there an election going on right now? W:	The election is on Tuesday.

	G:	Oh, okay.



	W:	In fact, she is probably out campaigning now, and this afternoon she is having a little cookout get-together down by the church down there. She’s going right back to working on this school out there. Because why—they say, “Oh, you can’t repair this!” Why can’t you repair it? It’s repairable. You could take any block building that there’s no sinkhole or things around, and you can do it, fix it. “We want new things out here.” Put this out there and utilize it. We plan to put a couple of basketball courts out there. One for just for the smaller kids—there’re a lot of kids. We talked about a tennis court out there, also in that area. We got one up here behind the cemetery back there. But who goes up there?

	G:	Yeah, might as well.



	W:	We have a guy here who lives here who teach tennis, who coaches over in Lake City. People pay him to do this. One of the guys from the community, went to school here.

	G:	Seems really ambitious. It would do a lot for the community.





	W:	It would mean a whole lot to fix this thing up. Put some little pavilions out there.



We have a guy right here who is teaching these kids how to play chess once in a while. Learn to play chess. I don’t know how to play chess! There’s just so many things, once you put it in your mind, that you can do out there that would help this community, total community. See a lot of people figure, “Well, just the Black kids on that dope.” That’s bull. You got a bunch of young White kids out there on dope, too. Where can they get better help than out there? You get some people that work here. It is some. I don’t know. I talked to the mayor about that, about the school. But nobody tends to want to get something done to it. They are saying about this little pavilion out there it’s going to suffice. It’s not. And before they tear it down, I will get a petition throughout this community to keep it from being tore down. Like I said, I was raised within throwing distance from the school down there. A vacant lot when you start down there. We had a [Inaudible 57:20] house down in front. You might’ve seen it, where a bunch of trees have been cut across in there?

	G:	I haven’t. We’re actually going to do a tour of the town right after. I haven’t seen that area.

	W:	Anyway, but it’s so much we can do for these kids around here. The kids want to do more than just read. Activities for them to participate in. We used to have the brain bowls for the kids, stuff like that. They don’t do them anymore! We had so much. We had drama festivals. Our kids, before they integrated schools, used to go to Tallahassee every year to drama festival throughout the Black areas.

Drama festivals. We one lived here who won a scholarship, but the daddy





couldn’t afford—he didn’t have no—he used to do crossties. There no crossties to be done during that time. But she won a scholarship, but he just didn’t have that money to help support her with. It’s just so much we can do if the people would sit up and say, okay, let’s do it. But we got that one little group, the faith- based supposedly, who say, “Mr. Graham didn’t done nothing for this community.” My god! He took care of that school for forty-some years! He brought it from a sixth grade center to a twelfth grade center. What else could he do?

	G:	Yeah, it’s a really big step. I don’t how they can say that.



	W:	They were so ignorant about this. Tell them to go to Tallahassee, look at every building in town in Tallahassee that’s named after somebody who has something in that area in education or a legislative area. That’s who it’s named after. So it’s called E.W. Graham Community Development Center Incorporated. That’s what we did. “Oh, why you name it after Mr. Graham?” Who else I’m going name it after? You know, this is just ridiculous.

	G:	Do you think there is a racial reason to the—?



	W:	It’s not the racism. It’s not the Whites. It’s a few Blacks. That is what it is. The faith-based group? That’s the main group right there that’s fighting it. That’s been from the very beginning. And the girl who has fought it more—in fact one of the city council members—won’t give her name… Years ago, once you got pregnant, you didn’t go back to school. Well, this young one lady got pregnant and had a kid. She had one more year in school. Her dad went to Mrs. Sanders, who was on the school board. Went to Sanders [Inaudible 1:00:30], she was on the school





board at the time. And when she spoke, it happened, you know? She was soft- spoken, but she was a good lady. They went to the board and got permission for her to come back to school. She was in that graduating class along with me. She graduated. “No, he never—” Well, my god, you fighting the system of a person who got your sister back in school in order to graduate! You didn’t come back to what they’d say was an adult education program somewhere during that time, back in the [19]40s and [19]50s. And this is what I was saying we fight against. I don’t know. Just like, it’s the same group that fought against the May Day activities we have. The same person that fought against that.

	G:	Can you tell me a little more about that May Day activity, and what it means for the community?

	W:	Okay, so slavery. The freeing of the slaves on May 20.. Each state had a different date, that they actually officially freed the slaves in that state. It was May 20th in Florida. Well years ago, the schools used to be able to have some activities. You couldn’t let everybody know what it was, because you know how racial activities come up. So we did it at the school. Had some activities for the May Day. That is all they called it: “May Day.” May Day activity. They didn’t tell the superintendent or the school board or the others what it was all about, but we knew what it was all about. We were taught in school what it was all about. We used to have it here, up in Jasper. Jasper come to White Springs one year. Belleville and Jennings would come up here. They didn’t have a Black school in Jennings at the time. The Black school was in Belleville. The next year we would go to a place like that. And had activities out there. Horseshoes, throwing horseshoes,





racing, basketball—shooting hoops. Those kind of activities. Three-legged race. You ever done three-legged race?

	G:	I have. Yes, sir.



	W:	Huh?



	G:	Mmhm. Yeah, those are fun.



	W:	Yeah. Three-legged race. Then the regular fifty-yard dash or something like that.



All kind of activity planned for that day. Wholesome activities. Braiding bows. We did that all the way through the school. And then a few years back, the guys and I are talking about having some kind of activity. A cookout. So, I don’t whether it was me or somebody said, “Well, look: May Day.” Some of them still didn’t know what May Day was. Some of the Black kids—all of them Black kids right now don’t know what May Day is. A lot of Black kids all over the state of Florida don’t know what Black May Day is. So, we told them. So they said, “Okay.” They got good old Mr. Udell, Jim Udell, [Inaudible 1:04:02] Udell. He know what it was all about. He would participate in it, and his wife. So the guys got together to start a cookout for May Day. Then what we do, we do it the 20th of May, or the closest Saturday to the 20th of May. Don’t charge anybody for anything; everything is free. There were no peddlers down there for anything.

Everything is donated by the people. The guys get together and do most of the meat cooking. The women cook pies and cakes. Then some of them will cook— like the Bullards, they usually cook a big thing of chicken and rice, like Johnny Bullard, and Lane, and other people, you know? And it’s beginning to spread even more. We have more Whites coming into it now than we had before.





Because they realize that, “Hey, this is for everybody.” And this is big day then to go out and play hoops, a ball game at night, that evening, at night at the ballpark out here. It’s just a big fun day. A celebration of the May 20th, of the freedom of the Blacks in the state of Florida, official freedom. In fact, I got to get up—it’s on the archives in Tallahassee, because the first year we had it back here again, the colonel got up and read the proclamation that freed the slaves. That morning, that day, on television. And I forgot what it was; now we want to get it again, if we can get that activity. And we started having activities down there. Apple-bobbing, racing, horseshoe contest, stuff like that. And then the bands come in from different—we got guys coming in from Miami with their rock group bands. Not the bands, DJs and all that stuff coming up. They wait for this day to come up here.

So that’s what May 20th is all about.



	G:	Okay. It’s coming up soon. I know that we actually got an invitation to come up for the May 20th event at the oral history center. Something that we’re really looking forward to.

	W:	It’s going to be on the 17th, I think it is. Because May 20th is that next week. The Monday, I think, or Tuesday. But anyway, they’re planning for it now. It’s just right around the corner. I got to get my grill ready. [Laughter]

	G:	You a big griller?



W:  Yeah, I have one of my nephews do my grilling now for me. He does it. And all the guys that live out in the area have grills and a couple type things they cook, fix them up down there. Somebody frying; ribs; different kinds of things like that.

G:   What’s your thing? What do you make?





W:   Greens. It’s just that a specialty.



G:   What’s your specialty? What’s your big thing?



W:  They celebrate that more than they celebrate 4th of July. [Laughter] But anyway, I’m going get a copy of this, my original thing on the Carver School. And maybe you boost a little up for it.

G:  Yeah, we have access to all the university’s resources. If we can get our hand—I can’t promise anything, but we can definitely look into the grants.

W:  I thought what we would do, I thought maybe the University of Florida would let their engineering department come in as a—

G:   As a project, for research?



	W:	To come in and do it as a project. Go through the whole building, go see what needs to be done, write up everything that need to be done in there, what you need to fix, and give an estimate cost of it. Then when you get ready to go up for the historic preservation, here is a write-up. They were going to give us fifty- thousand dollars to get that done, but they worked against it. So we get that done, and I told them I don’t want the city handling all of it. Telling what’s going to happen down there. The community people will. We got very educated people in this community who understand what we need. We got the teachers here. We have got attorneys, they from here. All that stuff. See? Get that group together, and let them determine what we’re going to do with the building. What we’re going to do so far as programs are concerned. And have your different committees together. We had different committees together to do certain things. And that’s what you—one or two people can’t handle it all. But that’s what I’d like





to see happen. My mother and them wanted it to happen. Because she and a couple few other people ran a summer program down there. After schools closed, see? Summer recreational programs. In fact, my mother, Jessie Mae—all these people are dead now, though. [Inaudible 1:09:33], her mother and Jessie Mae, Jacob Bradley. Jake was living in Suwannee County. He had moved over here—I mean Columbia County. He had moved over here. He’d married and moved over there during that time. But anyway, they hired him to come in and gave him a little stack, wasn’t much, to take care of the recreation department.

Because he was P.E, you understand? Basketball, football coach. But he moved over here later on, and he married a girl from over here. It’s just—the people in community will work together for what we get a plan of. The one thing they don’t want: they don’t want people dealing in and messing with the funds that’s put aside. That has happened. I’m not going to say anything about it. You might have heard about it.

	G:	Yeah, anything you don’t want to talk about, you don’t have to talk about.



	W:	In fact, the group that did it, they didn’t have a 501(c)(3). They were registered with the state. But that doesn’t give you the right to go out and collect monies for public use. Taxable monies. You got to have a 501(3)(c). Am I right?

	G:	Yeah, a nonprofit designation.



	W:	That’s right. And that didn’t happen. And I think somebody say there needs to be a collection, it’s about seventeen hundred dollars for that. Huh?

	J:	Leave it alone. Leave it alone. [Laughter]





	W:	I’m going leave it alone, leave it alone. [Laughter] But anyway, there’s just so much else I’d like to see done, and I like the people. And a lot of these people worked together to get this stuff done. You only have a handful of people who want to destroy it.

	G:	You’ve talked a lot about the community, you can definitely tell you are passionate about. Talk a little bit more about growing up here. You were one of the first few people to graduate in White Springs. Tell me a little bit about that if you can remember.

	W:	What now?



	G:	Can you tell me a little bit more about being one of the first few people, and the first Black man, I think you told me, to graduate from White Springs?

	W:	Well, to graduate right here in the school. But we had graduation before me, the different places. Graduated from high school, and they’ve done real well. They became principals and teachers. We have some who become lawyers. I asked support of the guys when I finished high school, to go on and, hey, get it done. I started teaching. I still have the support of those guys. And the guys I was working with, I got along well with the guys. Yeah, they might have some arguments there now. Some of the little touchier things, but not big problems.

Most of my real—guys I grew up with didn’t finish high school. A lot of them didn’t, you know? They had to go to jobs, because they didn’t have anybody to support them. Like my best friend. But they did well once they left here. Because there was nothing here for most of them to do until Occidental came out here.

	G:	Until who came out here?





	W:	They had to leave. Huh? G:	Until who came out here?

	W:	PCS. It was Occidental. Then, a lot of the guys were able come back home, and got pretty decent jobs where they can make a living for their families.

	G:	And are they still here?



	J:	Do you know about Occidental, what he’ss talking about? G:	I’m actually—

	W:	Phosphate.



	G:	Oh, phosphate? Okay.



	W:	A phosphate mine right out of town right here. And in this area, for the next fifty miles around, it has been a livelihood and a life-saver for Jasper, Live Oak, Lake City; Valdosta, Georgia, and that area. People coming in here working. It’s worked hundreds of people.

	J:	If you go north of here, you can follow 41 north like you going to Jasper, they on the right side.

	W:	They actually got the office buildings on the right side, but they still have the mine on both sides now.

	G:	And that’s one of the main employers here?



	W:	That was the main one they had. But Gold Kist—it’s not Gold Kist anymore. It’s Pilgrim’s Pride. This chicken plant right here? There’s a lot of work out there, but that wasn’t one of the major jobs. But PCS was the major area out here. You had black guys making supervisors and all that stuff. It was a lot of good for a lot of the people here. I worked out there one summer, what do they call it?





Turnaround. I worked out there. The guy tried to get me to stay out there. I said, “No, I can’t stay here.”

	G:	Not for you?



	W:	No, I wasn’t going to leave—see, I always liked security. I want to work in an area where I have some security. PCS, you didn’t really have security. They can close down something today and let so many people off. Some firings. Get rid of people. And they got the union. Once they got union out there, it helped a little bit. But it still didn’t take care of—like, especially supervisors. Their job could be gone tomorrow. But Leg Rose had the union. They finally got a union out there. It didn’t do anything for their retirement. I don’t know what their retirement is.

Their supervisors’ retirement pretty good, I think. I’m not that sure. Like I said, I just worked out there that summer after school. Worked out there on—

	G:	And how old were you then? W:	Huh?

	G:	How old were you when you went?



	W:	Oh, man. That was in 1976. The same year I built my house. So [19]76—



	J:	What did you tell him about the prison camp and everything else here? Did you tell him about the prison camp that was here? Did you know about that?

	G:	Yeah, I think you brought it up? I was actually going to bring that back up. Tell me a little bit more about the prison camp.

	W:	Okay, during the Second World War, we had prisoners come in from a different place. And a German prison camp was here in White Springs.

	G:	German?





	W:	German prisoners, from Germany, that they had captured in the war. They used to work in the pulpwoods. That’s logging in the [Inaudible 1:16:31]. In fact, right down on the railroad, they used to load up there. When they first came here, they had guys on Jeeps and half-tracks with fifty-caliber machine guns, you know?

When they left here, they had maybe one guy that [Inaudible 1:16:44]. Because they didn’t want to go nowhere. Some of them wanted to stay here. Didn’t go back to Germany! [Laughter] And it was right up here. You know where the library is now?

	G:	Yeah.



	W:	Right up back in that area was the German prisoner camp right down in here.



That’s where they stayed. Now, they can come in, and they had more privileges than we as Blacks did. They could go in the Spring House swimming. We couldn’t hardly go down to get water. [Laughter] That’s just one of those things happened during that time. Sulphur water was a big thing during that time.

	G:	Okay, what do you mean by “sulphur water?”



	W:	The water was sulphur, tastes like sulphur, and it was supposed to have curative powers for certain things, arthritis and stuff like that. And also, when you swimming, they help with arthritis. Different things like that.

	J:	Sulphur water is—like you heard of Sulphur Springs? The same type of thing. I live in Mexico, and they have a sulphur springs out there. But it’s supposed to be healthy water for you, for different ailments.

	W:	We used to go down there and get it and carry it home. Back up here was a hotel up here.





	G:	Do you remember the name of the hotel?



	W:	Phyllis Harris—not Phyllis Airstay. Oh, what’s the name of that doggone hotel?

	G:	If you can’t remember, it’s fine.



	W:	It was a Phyllis Harris was up here, then it’s, the other hotel that is over here.



This was the—not Telford. The Telford is the one over here. And she the one, the Fellows’ Terrace over here. And this was the—this I know. We used to go there to get water. Most [Inaudible 1:18:49].

	J:	Over here is, on 41, or on thirty— W:	41.

	J:	Okay, on 41. Highway 41.



	W:	Sam Bryant’ dad used to work there. Shannon, she used to work there. It was a big work for a lot of people in the area, especially a lot of Blacks in the cooking area, in the kitchen, waiting tables, stuff like that. Right here was a motel. That was a big motel there. Some of the people worked there in the evening. In fact, I think Sandra in the evening after school. Some of the guys worked in the evening after school there. I worked for a guy named Bob Housen sometime when he got ready to go off somewhere.

	G:	And were all these establishments segregated? Would they allow for there to be Black workers and Black labor but they wouldn’t—?

	W:	Yeah, Black workers worked in them.



	G:	But were Black individuals allowed to go into these hotels, these motels, as patrons?





	W:	No. No, no. It’s just like one of—most other areas. You know, you could go to most of the towns, Blacks didn’t live in most motels. I remember in Tallahassee when they first started to go in the Holiday Inn and, oh, what’s another, one of the major hotels?

	J:	Howard Johnson.



W:  Howard Johnson. I remember when they integrated those hotels. Or we used to go to the football games, and I start staying in the hotels like that. In these small towns, they wasn’t there.

	J:	Are you familiar with the partnership between Blacks and the Seminoles here? G:	No, I’m not. Want to talk about?

	W:	Okay. You can tell him, you know? J:	No, you tell! [Laughter]

	W:	During—if you ever get a chance to read the book, The Black Seminole.



	G:	The Black Seminole, okay.



	W:	A girl gave that book to me several years back. I [Inaudible 1:21:10]. Florida used to be a runaway place for slaves. Yeah, down in Florida. Andrew Jackson, president, was general. His mission was to capture these slaves. Come down to Florida, he started up out in West Florida. There was a Black lady and her children got away from up there and headed south. Well, she came down to warn the Indians and Blacks that Jackson was on his way down. Well, the Blacks were on this side of the river.

	J:	Which river?





	W:	Right there, Suwannee River. Right down when you go down the river bridge.



Not here. To the bridge, and head back up.



	J:	The old bridge is on 41.



	W:	Yeah, on 41. Yeah. Head back up. There’s something like a little bank on the left side there. That’s where the Indians were. The Blacks were on this side. And the Indians helped the Blacks cross. Andrew Jackson wasn’t about to attack the Indians over there. In fact, this is one the first starts of the First Seminole War.

The Blacks were on this side of the river back in there. And we lived with the Indians. That’s why they called it Black Seminoles. It’s an enjoyable book to read.

	G:	Yeah, that is a fascinating history of how these two groups resisted. W:	Find it, read it, you won’t want to put it down.

	G:	All right. The Black Seminole.



	W:	The Black Seminole. Black Seminole. And anyway, she helped get—when the Blacks get across the river right back here, and the Indians helped them get across. But before they all got across, everything was moved back. Johnson attacked it but wasn’t successful in what he did. Andrew Jackson rather. Yeah. I wanted to go up sometime and get on a boat and go on both sides. But you can’t dig for your artifacts up in there, I don’t think.

	G:	Yeah, it’s closed off for that.



	W:	Yeah, you’re not supposed to dig for artifacts up there anymore. But after you think about it—I had this guy, one of my principals when I was in Lake Butler; his hobby, for him and his son, was collecting Indian artifacts. Arrowheads and stuff like this. And he had thousands of them. He used to go in the fields, when they





plow the fields, and get them out of there, you know? Rake them out of there. You probably know how they do that. And one other thing about it, the Indians used to go out to different places, and they would bury arrows and things, the tips of the arrows and things, in certain areas. So when they got to that area, they wouldn’t have to try to chip them off to make an arrow to hunt with.

	G:	Okay. Yeah, that’s smart.



	W:	So, near the trees, they used to bury them near certain trees and certain rocks and stuff like that. Now, Walter wanted to go back up in there and try to find some of the caches they had up in there. But I never got the chance to do it, and I can’t do it now with my legs. I can’t get around like I used to.

	J:	Can I ask you a question? G:	Yeah, go ahead.

	J:	I’m the owner of a internet radio station. It is only a year old now, but we doing things.

	G:	All right. And is that in New Mexico?



	J:	Yeah, we based in New Mexico, but you know, it’s worldwide. And since I’m from Florida, a lot of the stuff that will be on there is coming from this side of the country. You are with the group down here for the building of the—

	G:	I’m here with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Project, which is an organization through the University of Florida that tries to collect different stories, different histories, how people experienced the big events of the last century. And we deal with a lot of issues. We have interviews from across the country, and a couple of international interviews. And we try to make them available for researchers,





community members, educators, anyone who this could help. And it creates a more complex and nuanced image of how people actually lived. And that’s what we try to do.

	J:	Mmhm. You have any information on it, or—?



	G:	Yeah. Once we’re finished here, we have cards outside, and I can definitely get you some information about that.

	J:	Yeah, okay. Because one of the reasons is, in addition to visiting him and family and everything, is on the eighteenth, I think, of this month—

	W:	Seventeenth. May festival.



	J:	Is a May Day event. That’s the Emancipation celebration here. You know about that?

	G:	Yeah, I know about that.



	J:	I’m going to be taping all of that. I’m going [Inaudible 1:26:30] on my tablet. And edit it, and put on our website. And I wanted other things to go in there as far as content is concerned on the website, too. That is why I was asking for the information that you [Inaudible 1:26:48].

	G:	I can get you information. We have hundreds, thousands of stories, and a lot of them would be well-fit for being on the radio and that type of thing.

	J:	Is it basically as far as Florida?



	G:	It’s through the University of Florida.



	J:	No, I am talking about the information about, the content of—



	G:	We focus on Florida, because that’s where we’re based out of. But we have projects in Virginia. We have a really landmark project in Mississippi, where we





interview civil rights veterans, people who were involved in Freedom Summer, with the Freedom Schools. So we have a lot of information. If you’re interested, I can get you that once we finish here.

	J:	Yeah, I’d like to get that. Because it was very important, because history books today don’t teach history.

	G:	Oh yeah, of course not. That’s one of the thing we look at. W:	History books yesterday didn’t teach history.

	J:	But I didn’t know if it was interrupting, but I— G:	No, not at all.

	J:	Before we finished, I wanted to ask you that and find out. Then two of them do some taping and pictures of the Stephen Foster Folk Festival.

	G:	The Florida Folk Festival coming up? Yeah, we’ll get you that information once we’re done here. So, tell me a little of what you did after you graduated from high school. That’s jumping back a little bit.

	W:	Okay, after I graduated high school, I went to FAM[U]. G:	What did you study up there?

	J:	Florida A&M.



	W:	Florida A&M University. Okay, I stayed a couple of years. I used to go to Tampa all the time with my uncle and stay down there. Missed a lot of school, and wound up not the getting the grades like I should. So I decided I wouldn’t go back. Momma say, “Yeah, you going back to school somewheres.” So, she took me to down to St. Augustine, Florida Memorial down there. And I was doing okay, but then I came home from Thanksgiving, I had a letter.





	G:	Was it a draft letter?



	W:	No, draft. [Laughter] So, I went in the Service. I was drafted, so I went into the Service, December. I went to Service in December, and then I—

	G:	Of what year was that? W:	That was in [19]53.

	G:	[19]53? So the Korea War time?



	W:	Mmhm. And you take your test in orders to decide, based on your test score, what you want to go into. So I saw this thing: “leadership school.” So, I signed up for leadership school. I didn’t know what leadership school was about. That is where you go in and go to a special school to get another rank as a NCO. They used to call it Cardboard City. So I decide I didn’t want to go there. So, I still had to take sixteen weeks of basic training. I said, “Heck with it.” And I was shipped to Fort Campbell, Kentucky. You know what Fort Campbell, Kentucky is?

	G:	I’m not familiar.



	W:	It was a paratrooper. It was paratrooper. Another guy, Lonnie, and I were at Fort Campbell. They just parked the train out there, and watched the guys jumping out of airplanes, just coming down, you know, blah, blah, blah. You know? I’m saying, “Mm-mm.” So this guy, [Inaudible 1:30:24]. And say, “You going be here, you may as well go in the Airborne.” Said they was three weeks. He say, “Because you get that extra fifty-five dollars a month. That mean a whole lot to you, you going to try with the gals. Them gals like to see them wings on you!” [Laughter] So [Inaudible 1:30:42], say, “We’ll start this quick.” And they shipped you off for—because I wanted to go to Europe. Freeman didn’t pay us the first





eight weeks—first week of training. And that wasn’t nothing, but Freeman just was a goof-off. And I said, so, “Next week, I want to jump next week. I’m a paratrooper.” So I became a paratrooper. And that’s what I did the rest of the time in the Service. Took a couple classes, night classes, college classes over at Vanderbilt when I was at Fort Campbell. Because they had classes for Colored. But other than that, I didn’t do anything else. I became a, what you called a “fire chief” in the last eight months over the boiler room where we kept the heat. I had people working for me in there. The heat, and the coal, and heater water and coal. You know, just heating. And I did that until I got out of the Service. I made nineteen jumps. I wanted to make twenty, and I was trying to decide whether I was going to re-up for another year, so extend it for another year and go to Germany with the group. But on that nineteenth jump, I had something called a “cigarette roll.” My parachute twisted.

	G:	What’s that mean?



	W:	You have of a cigarette rolls? G:	I don’t know, honestly.

	W:	Anyway, my lines were twisted, and I had a choice to make in a split second. Pull my reserve, or just to try to shake the cigarette roll. So I start shaking that cigarette roll, because if that parachute had enough air in it, and that reserve collapsed it, it was all over. So I came down twisted, and I got knocked out, hurt my knee. It’s same right now. Uncle Sam don’t feel like they want to give me nothing for it. But anyway, I got out of the service, went back to school, went back to FAM.





	G:	What were you studying at FAMU? W:	Huh?

	G:	What were you studying up there?



	W:	Elementary education. I was going teach. My mom and aunt taught. I wanted to follow in their footsteps. And anyway, I got back up there, and I got back with the same group I was in before. Doing the same thing, not going to class. So, I say, “I got to leave here.” So that next summer, I went on a drive down to St.

Augustine, and got enrolled there again. That’s where I stayed and finished school. Got my grade point average up pretty good. Pledged my fraternity that I wanted to do.

	G:	What fraternity were you part of?



	W:	Omega. Omega Psi Phi. And I graduated. Well, I could’ve graduated a semester earlier, but I stayed around, and used the GI Bill, and just messed around on this campus. I went to Tampa. My uncle had a beer and wine tavern. He needed something to work, because he couldn’t do it because of certain things. And I went down and ran that beer and wine tavern for him for, from May until December. And I came back, and I went to work in Lake Butler. Teach in Lake Butler. I taught fifth grade first, and also I had to coach the girls’ basketball team, which was all right. And I coached the baseball team, and helped out with the football team. So we all worked it all together. The next semester, I had to teach social studies. So, I had—I needed one class as a minor for social studies. So I want back to Tallahassee that summer, A&M. And I believe that’s when they brought in Americanism versus Communism in the schools. You had to teach





that in the schools. That was during the—what the, Castros, with the missiles, big invasion.

	G:	Yeah, 1960s.



	W:	So anyway, I think that’s when it was. So I went up, and took that Americanism versus Communism, and got certified in social studies. So I taught social studies, civics, psychology. I did that for three years. I decided I wanted to go to Master’s. So, I got an NDA grant and went up to Atlanta University, got my Master’s.

	G:	Where did you go get your Master’s? W:	Atlanta University.

	G:	Oh, Atlanta University. Okay.



	W:	For a year. I came back. That’s when I told you we started the adult education program. The year when I started for that. And integration: let’s see, how did it happen? The first thing I had to do, they had to have some Black teachers at some of the schools. I went down to the middle school, and I was the first Black to teach White kids in Union County.

	J:	Which middle school? W:	Huh?

	J:	Which middle school?



	W:	It wasn’t but one middle school in Lake Butler. J:	Okay, Lake Butler Middle School.

	W:	That’s right. I’m in Lake Butler. I taught there for a semester. G:	How did the students respond to having a Black teacher?

	W:	I had no problem.





	G:	No problem?



	W:	I had a couple of kids that didn’t want to do what I said do. And I tell you who two of them were. One of them was the president of the bank’s daughter. And one was a shirt manufacturer’s daughter. Maybeloosa, this is what you do. So when I went to the principal and say, “They feel that they don’t want I what I say.” So, they went across their legs. And, “They’re so great now!” So the superintendent told me—he went down there—if I have any problems, let him know. And so did the sheriff, Whitehead. So, the principal called them in. I said, “if they not doing this assignment, y’all can have it. I’m going home.” Come back, they had it done. That one girl there went and told her momma a lie. A little country White girl. Her momma found out she lied, and she come out there and whooped her butt in the classroom! Put her belt on her in the classroom. I had no problem whatsoever.

	G:	It’s really great that you got that respect from the—



	W:	I got that respect from them. Parents, the same way. That only one problem I had one time was Headstart. Headstart program. Y’all don’t know anything about Headstart programs now.

	G:	Yeah, I think they still have them around.



	W:	I went out to tell this lady about sending the kids back the next year. This guy told me, he say, “Don’t do it on my time. Do it on your own damn time.” I looked at him. I’m not going to tell him what I told him. [Laughter] But see, I kept my pistol in my car, all the time. So, I went back. I rode out to the superintendent’s office and told Superintendent Jimmy what happened. Jimmy Hedson. He called Whitehead in there, who was the sheriff. Whitehead say, “I take care of that.” I





had no more trouble out there. I was treated with respect, dignity, the whole time I was in Union County by Black and White. Because I treated them the same way.

	G:	That’s really great to hear.



	W:	And the parents there, you couldn’t beat them, Black or White, because they worked with that system. One of the things that I liked about Union County is at the middle school—I headed back to the middle school as a counselor in the middle school—you had teachers who wanted to kick kids out of school. Little things. Superintendent said, “No, we’re not doing that. We can’t teach them if they’re home. They’re in trouble if they home and not in school.” So for those three years, I was what you call a homeschool counselor. I would go to the home with the parents. See the parent by their kids. Keep kids in school. I would go on their job for lunchtime to talk with them. And if we can settle the problem, get those parents to work with us and solve the problems of those kids, those kids were back in school the next day. Different than what it was over here, with the kids up in Jasper up there. Whole lot different. Union County has one of the better school systems, all right? But anyway, that’s what I did. Then in [19]72- [19]73, I got a grant with the Auburn University for a year postsecondary in counseling student president service. I went there and got my six-year advanced degree from there. I enjoyed that year over there up at Auburn. In fact, that’s the year that Auburn beat Alabama. [Laughter]

	J:	We beat Alabama that year! I wasn’t there. I had gone over to Montgomery to see Florida A&M, and wasn’t at Alabama. I saw A&M play.





	W:	But that was the highlight of the year for Auburn. And I enjoyed it. I had no problem. Alabama was a lot different than I thought it was going to be.

	G:	Did you have a good experience in Alabama?



	W:	I had a good experience in Alabama, at Auburn. I had one teacher there that didn’t feel that a Black should make more than a C.

	G:	He had a rule, a specific rule?



	W:	That was his thing. But they got rid of him. Because, during that same time, Auburn was trying to recruit Blacks into the system. And that was against it. There was one girl in that class—he gave her a C, too—who had never made but maybe one B in her lifetime.

	G:	Guessing she raised hell?



	W:	They got their three women in guidance, and her professors, start raising sand about that. I did what you call a companionship period, where I took—I was getting certified as a school psychologist when I was there, also. I had to go out to Tuskegee, at the VA hospital out there, and do companionship therapy. And I was a pretty good writer. I did my research and all this stuff. I had a guy that I remembered seeing in Tampa who had brain damage from alcohol. Prior brain damage. When I wrote this researcher up and all this stuff, the guy at Tuskegee who was over us, they got people coming in from the school to work at the VA hospital. He told me, “Bernard, I know you got an A out that class, didn’t you?

Because he talk about your paper, you know, use your paper as an example.” I said, “No, that guy gave me a C.” [Laughter] He said, “Oh, hell no.” They went to Dr. Meadows. Dr. Meadows went to Dr. Schafer, head of the department. He





had to change that C. Here I write a paper that the man had used it as an example... [Laughter] But anyway, that’s the only bad experience I had. Other than that, I had a good experience up there. The professors was nice. Students had no qualms. It was just a good experience. I enjoyed it. While I was there, I got admitted to University of Florida on my doctoral program. I didn’t finish—I did all my coursework, but I didn’t do my dissertation and part of my qualifying exam.

	G:	You were done with education at that point? You weren’t really feeling it?



W:  Yeah, what had happened, I had built this disco. And I couldn’t do both of them. Had all that business I had, because I was losing too much time there, and take time to study for the exams. So, I just gave it up. I was working in Lake Butler at the time, at the high school. And I went to Live Oak. I just didn’t have the time to do all of it.

G:   Yeah, that’s a lot.



	W:	I just gave it up. I had all the coursework completed. I had my coursework completed in [19]78, I believe it was. Didn’t do it. I took my sub-specialization exam in student services: no problem. But I should have gone on back and finished it.

	G:	You regret it now? W:	Huh?

G:   You regret it now, not finishing it?



	W:	Yeah, I do. I do regret it. When they tell you as a kid, tell other people about this, they say why didn’t you go on and get through? I had that disco, I built it, and I sold the building—I almost gave it away, really; I should have done that first—in





[19]90. Daughter with me. “Okay, when you coming back? When you coming back?” My main professor. “When are you coming back? Let’s get this thing done.” I just never went back. Never went back. I enjoyed—we had one bad experience at University of Florida. The guy that taught statistics. Not only me, but he did a lot of people with C’s. But then we had a couple of guys in that class who we tutored with and studied with, knew more about statistics than he did. So what they did, the students wrote a letter to the head of the department. He was not supposed to teach that level of statistics. He was a graduate student. And so what we did, we had a chance to go back and take it, no fees, no nothing. Just had to go back and do a couple of papers. And I did it. That’s what I went back and did. He was the only bad apple in all my programs at the University of Florida.

	G:	And do you think it was because of racist reasons that he was— W:	Well, not that. The Whites were judged the same way.

	G:	Oh okay. He just wasn’t qualified.



	W:	Most of them—very, very few people in that class got a B, and nobody in the class got an A. We had a couple of guys in that class who used to have to correct him. I guess maybe that’s one of the reasons he did it. But other than that, I’ve enjoyed my time with it.

	G:	What did you do after you left the University of Florida? Where did you go? Did you go teach? And if so, where?

	W:	I was working already. I was there part-time. I went to Suwannee County. I went over to counsel the high school for about six years. I started the career fair in





Suwannee County. First year I was there, the managers at the junior college there for career fair, and some of the kids there left from Dade County, I think, during the lunchtime, and went to eat and have some beers and got kind of high, so they cut it out. So, I started a career fair the next year at Suwannee High School. I had some help from Dade County.

	G:	Dade County in Miami?



	W:	Yeah. See, I was pretty active in the guidance counseling area. They had a counseling partner from Dade County Schools. Some of the people saw what she did. She would send me things about it, help me put it together, newspaper and all that stuff. And the superintendent also gave me a lot. Matter of—five thousand dollars a year, for the career fair. And the first two years, we did it at the high school. At the gym, at Jasper. Then Branford. School for Branford. The counselor down there was a good friend of mine. He and I have been together for years. You know, counseling, all goes to the counseling. And then, the next year we took to the Coliseum, and we had a good career fair. I had people coming in from Dade County, all over; different schools, and different trades, and all that stuff. Sheriff’ department. The EP and all. Because if students know why they’re in school and there are some areas out here, they’re better likely to stay in school if they know what they can do. If you’ve made them familiar with the different careers out there, and they get to talk to people about it, hey: what they going to do? They going to do better. You had the largest enrollment since Jimmy Carter [Inaudible 1:50:37] during that time. But then, I had a couple people who didn’t like it. One of the counselors at the school, when I had the career fair right at the





school, she didn’t take time to walk from here outside the door to the career fair. She was doing something else. She was a principal’s pet, plus she was one of the other principal’s wife. She didn’t have a degree in counseling. Here I am.

Everything except the eighteen years of counseling.



	G:	Lots of education.



	W:	She wanted to run the program. The first day she came in, she come in trying—I say, “Well, wait a minute! Not this boy!” Finally, I went to the vo-tech school. As counselor for the tech school, because me and the principal of the high school we didn’t—the new principal came in. We didn’t get along. Because as a counselor, you supposed to work with kids and help them be the best they can do. I would review folders, and I would find that some of these kids had exceptionally good ability, but we had what we called the comp frozen [1:52:20], where you had to take this CTVS or the CAT. And then, based on your score, you get in a regular class or advanced class. You get in rehab class. So I would find these kids, and I would move them out. Get their parents to come in and sign for them to come out. They liked that. These kids had been tested. That’s why—I said, “Oh, wait a minute! That’s not what my job is.” And I’ve talked to principal, and I tell him just like that, too. “This is my job.” So, they needed somebody to hire at the vo-tech school, so I went to the vo-tech school. I went off, trained, became the financial aid director. Pell grants, work-study. In fact, I had to learn up to clean up stuff. One of the guys started on work-study, for the Perkins work- study program, that they didn’t qualify for. Didn’t do the testing, because all of it’s based on the testing and about needs. And so, I had to get that straight. We had





a meeting about financial aid, and so the principal, the director, he said, “Well, it’d be all right if you got this work done on time.” I said, “What are you talking about? Whenever they bring me their forms in, [Inaudible 1:54:01], I do that work right then. I don’t have a secretary, remember. I use a student as a secretary.” And I said, “This the way I was taught to do it when I went to training. I’m the only person that’s been to training. I’m the only person in contact with Washington

D.C. I’m the only person in contact with the State Department. If I can’t do it the way I been doing it, you can take it and give it to some-goddamn-body else. Because I have thirty-four years in there. Now, I can go home.” So there was a guy who had a son that wanted to come in there. And he wanted to give it to that boy. So he wrote me a letter that I wouldn’t be doing financial aid any more after that. So I say, “Fine. Fire me. I wish you’d try to!” [Laughter] Anyway, I had to go in and clean up everything. And the feds came in. They came in and did—

	G:	An audit?



	W:	An audit of the program. I had so many disappointed people it wasn’t funny. I didn’t get one, not one red mark on anything, because I did everything the way it’s supposed to been done. That disappointed him. So, I sat around for two years, didn’t do nothing. Can’t fire me!

	J:	Excuse me a minute, I don’t want to interrupt you. But his daughter’s running for political office here.

	W:	Oh yeah. We got to get out and see her. What time is it now?



	J:	But I don’t want to cut it short. I don’t know if you have all of the information.





G:  No, no. It’s been two hours. If you have to go, it’s fine. If you want to make some closing remarks before we go, it’s almost twelve-thirty. But if you have something else to do, that’s completely fine.

	W:	Yeah, I got to go down—like I say, I hope she be on the city council next year, next week.

	G:	Do you want to make one last remark? Perhaps about schools in the area? How they’ve changed?

	W:	I don’t know how much they’ve changed, because I been out of the system for fifteen or more years. I don’t know.

	G:	Perhaps how they changed from the time that you were a student to the time that—

	W:	Oh, since I was a student it’s just, it’s so much different, because they have so much assets now, and so much to work with now than they had when I was a student. You got the computers now. You got all kind of resources you can use.

	J:	There’s a basic change, man. Now they teach more to the test than they teach— W:	Yeah, that’s right. That’s how they do it. I taught—

	J:	That’s why kids are not learning, because there is no practicality involved.



	W:	They got to teach the kids to pass tests. They are not teaching the kids. They are teaching the test. That’s my thought. I did a tutoring class. I was over tutoring here in the county, and over in Suwannee County, for about four years. I had a tutoring program down to Palm Beach. I was surprised that some of the teachers just weren’t teaching. They were teaching what they thought was going to be on the test. They weren’t teaching kids how to conjugate a verb, stuff like this. They





didn’t teach them the commas, the exclamation points, and all that stuff. They weren’t teaching that. They were teaching to go and test, how fast this test. I’m proud to say one thing, though. The four years I did this, I had good teachers. I hired good teachers. Paid them thirty dollars an hour. Hired good teachers, and I only had one teacher that I wouldn’t look to come back to teach for me. And every one of the students these teachers taught were good students, they passed the CAT test.

	G:	What do you think that this high-stake testing—this will be the last question— what do you think that this high-stakes testing means for specifically Black youth and Black students?

	W:	What now?



	G:	What do you think that these high-stakes test mean for—? W:	High-state test?

	G:	Yeah like these FCAT, all these different tests, mean for specifically Black youth?



	W:	I think that it’s going to cause a lot of Black students to go back over some of the things they’re doing, and having to take a certain look at it. Because they’re being left, I think, behind in some of the basics they need to be taught. Not only just the Black students. I think it depends on the households of some the White students the same way. A lot of the Black parents aren’t going back and try to teach their kids some of what they need to be doing, because they themselves can’t do some of it. That’s the same with a lot of Whites. I think if we went back and did education with the parents, I think if the counselors got more involved with the students and teaching them how to study, run programs in the classroom, that’s





going to help your students. I don’t know. But it’s going affect some of them, because some of the parents aren’t going to go ahead and—they’re working two jobs and all this, and trying to get things done. They just don’t have the time.

	J:	It goes back to the thing also, is the simplicity of what you learning. Just as an observation, what’s the difference between a bucket and a pail? One ethnic group might refer to it as a bucket. The next one might refer to it as a pail. And the third might be something else. Which is the right answer? The new math. When it first started out, I mean, it comes to the same answer. The ‘x’ means times. What is it now? A dot or something like that? And there are grandparents and great-grandparents, they don’t know anything about the change of the symbols of mathematics. We used to have to learn our times tables. I don’t know if they still do that.

	W:	Yeah, they have to, because I made sure [inaudible 2:01:57], but they don’t teach, they wait so late. I think they need to start earlier with some of things they need to do. I think they need to analyze their learning skills. They need to look back and teach kids how, instead—they have a—

	J:	Technique.



	W:	They have a book, [inaudible 2:02:22]. “Where there’s a will, there’s an A,” I used to use with my kids. You probably seen it, probably heard of it: where there’s a will—it’s those tates. The first reader and all that. The parents go through it and talk with them about it, and tell them how get the kids home, sit down and study. Cut the darn TV off. I got [inaudible 2:02:42] sometime. “How you expect Leland





to do this you got the goddarn TV on?” Cut it off until he finishes or put him in his room to the desk with a light and his paper, and everything he needs there.

	J:	But see, then too, the Sunshine turn is one thing. The parent or a grandparent not being knowledgeable of how to do the math that they doing, they used to the old way. The tests that we took during our time—I’m about ten years younger than him, twelve years younger than him, okay? The tests that we took was like our classroom test. Then you would have a big test, couple of big tests that you need to pass. But to flunk a kid in elementary school should be an individual thing with an instructor, not determined by the state. Because they didn’t pass this particular test, which is biased.

	W:	It is.



	J:	A lot of them are biased. So, you know, that’s why, should I say—you might say kids are falling behind, and they’re dropping out, et cetera, et cetera, because of certain things. Every kids can’t take a test. And I’m not taking this over, but I do want to say— [Laughter]

	W:	It’s the same thing we have talked about. We’ve sit and talked about these kind of thing.

	J:	But right here in White Springs, there is a lacking of vocational things. We talk about this all the time. You got a school here, that at night it should be something going on for those that can’t go to school, those that have dropped out, GED programs, vocational classes, computers, et cetera, et cetera. Because one thing here, one of the main means of transportation around here is the bicycle. Now it’s





beginning to be the golf cart. Okay? But the closest thing for them to go someplace and learn something vocational-wise is were in Jasper.

	W:	Mm-mm, Live Oak. J:	Live Oak.

	W:	This is what I was saying about this school, putting this thing together at the school out there. A lot of vocational things that you can bring in there from Live Oak, or from the junior college. They can bring in certain programs. I remember brick masonry. Just basic typing classes at night. Computer classes at night. One of the things I wanted to have down there is room for computers. Where people can come in and learn how to deal with computers, instead of just doing the basics. Learn the different computer programs. They can get jobs right from at the house once they get those learned. Internets and all that stuff. Most of them, they just text and do this, but most of them don’t know how to handle a computer, what to do with it. See? I’m computer ignorant. [Laughter] Some of the stuff that they can do, like my brother John and them can do, they can never do with it.

Because when I was in the system, I had secretaries to do it. A lot of the things I bypassed, because I had somebody else to do it. But now, I wish had done it. But I sit down with it sometimes now, I get my little program and go through it.

	G:	Yeah, just practice a little bit?



	W:	What’s this video programs you get? And put it in and type it? It’s just a lot of little things. But parents need to get more involved. We need to get the parents more involved in the education of kids. Like I said, about all the tests and all they’re taking now, I can’t see studying the test. One of the things that I remember we





had to do in these educational programs for the test, they had to get the test from the teacher, Black kids. And we had to build up our program for that particular individual kid, based on his needs from that test, and keep involving, [inaudible 2:07:40] you see there. That’s why our kids did so well. That’s why we had kids here, down here at the school down there, were able to do it; because they could get to talk with their teacher. Some of them were the kids’ teachers. These were teachers who wanted to do it. Not just for the money, but they wanted to see the kids be successful.

	G:	Yeah, as it should be.



	J:	And another thing, too: I don’t like the way some of the kids are selected for the classes, for the test, for the remedial work. I don’t know. And another thing: you got to get more teachers that know how to deal with kids. Not there for that dollar, but because they love it. I know they’ve had some teachers right here in White Springs that would love the kids. The kids loved them, because they worked with them. Black and White teachers. But their principal—it all starts in one place: their principal. It all starts with the principal. When I was at the prison, there wasn’t a day went by that I didn’t go to a classroom and sit and see what’s going on. It wasn’t a week that I didn’t look at their lesson plans, “Let me see your plans.” When I go in that classroom, I expected to see that being put together for the people in there. Not sitting in my office. As a guidance counselor, the guidance counselor can’t sit there in her office, his office all the time. You got to get in those classes. You got to get out and see what these kids are doing.

Encourage them. Get them in small groups. I used to have groups of





underachievers. Met with them once a week. Encourage them, push them with the teachers and all this stuff. That’s what makes a difference.

	J:	The thing, too, is, a teacher being able to really communicate with students. Let’s just say, I graduated from high school in [19]62, but I had an instructor that worked with one of the guys in our class. He would be the first one in. Well, his daddy, and no, his mother graduated from high school, but the thing was is that he made his money, his little side money and everything, gambling. Shooting craps in the alley and on the sidewalk. And this not to get off the subject. But, we had this teacher that was so interested in him, he took dice, and showed him how to do math.

	G:	Probability?



	J:	Yeah. And I mean, that’s just—that was the involvement as far the teacher was concerned. Bernard is involved with this and everything. It’s at a level that, it’s not like when you leave the classroom, you leave all your interest. It’s when you leave the classroom, you don’t have to take the classroom out of the classroom, but you start dealing with those kids on an individual basis.

	W:	Real-life things to teach.



	G:	I think that’s a good ending point.



	W:	One of the best things you can do with the young boys out there: take the measurements of the football field. How long is it?

	G:	It’s a hundred yards? W:	No!

	G:	How long is it?





W:  From one end to the next? G:  Oh okay, yeah.

W:  The goal and all stuff there. How many yards? How many feet is in those yards? Okay, how many yards right here? You draw it up for me. We used to have to do that in the classroom.

G:   That is a good way to teach. A good way to make an education relevant.



	W:	Like I say, I taught social studies and civics, and psychology. I used to do hypnosis. But I quit when I hypnotized one of my cousins in Tampa one time, and I was so ignorant about it—I just thought I knew something about it—and she got up, went in the bed, and slept for about four, five hours. But I didn’t know that’s because she was already tired. She was resting, that was relaxation. My main professor at the University of Florida, Joe Whitman, the guy, he was a hypnotist.

	G:	Okay.



	W:	Yeah, he was a hypnotist.



	J:	And you know, one of the other things, one of the major things—and these some the things that we talk about—the lack of discipline in schools now. You can’t discipline a child. You can’t even discipline them at home.

	W:	There is a way you can discipline a kid at school. G:	Yeah, thank you so much.

	W:	It depends on how much respect that kids has for you, and then your contact with his parents. We used to have to contact our parents every nine weeks, both the parents, afterschool.

	G:	Just to let them know how their kids are doing.





W:  We had to contact them, and once a year, you had to visit their home. G:  Oh wow, that’s very different.

W:  We had to go out in their community. That’s what the governor required here. I remember that’s what my dad used to require here. That’s what we did in Lake Butler. So, I enjoyed talking about—

G:   Yeah, yeah! Thank you so much.



W:   I’m going get a copy of this thing for you.



G:  Yeah, yeah. We’d really like that. If there’s anything we can do—no promises, because we’re really busy—but we would love to look into it and see if there’s anything we can do.

W:   You’ll be back here, when?



	G:	We’re thinking of coming back in a couple of weeks to conduct more interviews.



Talk to more community members.



	W:	If I find these—you’ll be here most of the day, right?



	G:	We’ll be here ‘til—I think we have another two, three hours that we’re planning on being here.

	W:	If I can get you copy of the form before y’all leave, I’ll bring you a copy right over to you.

	G:	All right, yeah. Thank you again. This was a great interview. [End of recording]





	Transcribed by:	Derick Gomez, May 15, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, April 3, 2017





	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019