AAHP 377; Young; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 377 Martine Young

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Ryan Morini on April 25, 2015 1 hour, 37 minutes | 38 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 377

Interviewee: Martine Young Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: April 25, 2015



	Y:	[In prayer] Joy come in the morning. As we gather together here once again, the Good Lord has truly been our friend. As He wake us each morning to start our day, we should also give thanks and pray. Although the Good Lord want us all to get along, He know himself, things will go wrong. In this big world that He made for all of us, some people just can’t get enough. So I say to us, one and all, we all need help from the Good Lord as time go on in life. Some things will fade away, but the Good Lord is here to stay. The day is coming. It seems so far away. It’s here every day, it’s called Judgment Day. Don’t let your day come all at once.

Love thy neighbor as you love thyself. Amen. Continue to look onto the hills from whence come your help. Amen, and amen again. May peace, love, and joy full your heart, and every day and every way, joy come in the morning.

	M:	Wow, that’s beautiful. I have to introduce it first, and then I’ll—so, this is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. I’m sitting here today in White Springs with Martine Young. It is April 25th, 2015. So, thanks for joining me today.

	Y:	Yeah.



	M:	So your full name is Martine Young, is that correct? Y:	Martine Young. My nickname is “Pokey.”

	M:	Pokey?



	Y:	Pokey, yeah.



	M:	How did you get that nickname?



	Y:	It came, really, from a babysitter that I had. I was being babysitted, and I got caught with her daughter. I was about five years old, doing the wrong thing. And





she whooped me and then told me, “Don’t bring that pokey back over here again for me to babysit!” And it began from there. Yeah.

	M:	Wow. Can I ask when you were born? Y:	Say again?

	M:	When you were born?



	Y:	I was born in 1958. January 28th, 1958. M:	1958.

	Y:	Yeah.



	M:	And you were born here in White Springs, then?



	Y:	White Springs, Florida on curve 99 out on Route 66. It’s on 41, curve on 41.



Right now, they got an S&S sitting off right from the curve. When I was born as a kid, it was store right on the curve on the corner on 99. It also was a tobacco field. After the store, there was a cornfield after the store. Right now, it’s a storage house built on curve 99 where the store used to be, and tobacco field, and corn and everything else used to be.

	M:	So you were born there? Your family lived there? Were you born at that store? Y:	I was born about not even a quarter mile back up in the woods from the curve.

During that time, Black peoples couldn’t afford hospital rates so much. So when I was born, I was born by the midwife, Ms. Scippio. Ms. Alice Scippio. After that, as far back as I can remember, we had a lot of cold winters. And back in them days, it’s—we called them “piss-buckets.” Use them at night, and take them out and dump them in the morning. Then they had outdoor toilets. It’s the way of life back then. When I was born, my mother had three sons older than me. One of





them was James. And the other ones were Winnie and Cabo. And I was the fourth, and the nickname was Pokey. She saw my oldest brother—when Momma used to work, he would always do the cooking. And then he got off and went to work himself. It falled down like a chain, linkeded up: when one have to go and go to work, the other take over the cooking at the house, the cleaning, and whatever chores there may be. My momma didn’t stop having kids, though, once it got to me; she had my brother that’s one year behind me after that. Me and him kind of came up together. Our babysitter used to take us fishing a lot. I remember one morning when we went fishing down at the truss road. It was always plenty good fishing holes back in them days. But we went fishing early that morning, and I was trying to get ahead of her, because she caught the most fish the day before, and I was trying to get to her spot. And as I did, I got to the spot, and before I can even throw it in the water or get ready to throw it in the water, she swung her fishing pole, and struck ‘side me two times right almost downside my face. I looked around, and I was about to jump in the water, because I thought she was angry at me for me getting her spot. But instead, there was two big moccasins right down by my feet where I had stepped at, and she was fending them off. And I was glad to give her spot back after that. [Laughter] Yeah. But it was a lot of cold mornings and a lot of babysitters all over the place back in them days. Main meal seemed like it was fish and grits, and then some chicken.

Chicken was a Black man’s steak back there and then. As I growed, I got old enough to start working myself. I start off with cucumbers, cutting cucumbers, cutting squash. But when I was about five years old, I went to pick some cotton





with the rest of my brothers. And that was the hottest day I think I had in my life, working in that midday sun. We would pick the cotton all day long. And a penny a pound didn’t amount to much. But four boys picking, we would get seven dollars a week and all. But then, we had to turn around and give it all to Momma. [Laughter] That’s the way of life back then. The thing I remember the most about my momma was always church and Sunday school. White shirt, black pants, black shoes, bowtie or tie. And I don’t care if you was sick or whatever, you had to be in Sunday school and church. That’s a way of life.

	M:	Which church did you go to? Can I ask?



	Y:	Beulah Baptist Church. Been a member there basically all my life. As I got older, my mother changed gears with that church. She started going to the Sanctified Church. That’s another church altogether seemed like to me, as I sat around.

We’d go to church, and we speak about that church. I was in twelfth grade in high school, and I was going to church with her at eight o’clock at night. We’d get out of there three o’clock, four o’clock, sometime in the morning. And I had problems going to school, staying awoke. So my teacher, she asked me what my problem with my staying awoke in her class in the afternoon. So I told her, “I’m going to church, trying to stay up all night.” She passed me with an E for effort when it came to graduating from that class. But one thing about the power of the Lord at the Holy Ghost Church if it were described to me, sitting on the bench and watching it from my perspective: I watched a lot of people shout, and run into the wall, and hit the benches, and nothing seem to bother them when they under the power of the Holy Ghost. After the Holy Ghost release them, they come back to





theyself, and they be normal. Ain’t shouting or running into nothing. It seemed to be it never happened. I don’t know if it’s an energy that draws them into a stage of certain frenzy or how it go, but I know the Lord is all power. And He can do things beyond us. And time has raising up back from [19]58 to 2015, it seem like the world done—I know the world turn around, but seem like it’s just turning around so fast with technology and people. Seems like we lost a generation somewhere along the line. And with all the crisis that we have overseas and everywhere, the Lord is still doing his job. It’s like Moses led the peoples out of Egypt. We not in bondage ourselves. If we give ourself over to Him, things will be better. But back when I was coming along, there was a lot racism. Racism wasn’t inherent by the generation of peoples that didn’t quite know where they fit in at.

The peoples that were so racist back then in my life, that we couldn’t get along with when schools integrated, now some of them is my best friends. But the school I went to, I started school when I was about five years old. And most peoples, they was putting them in at six. But due to the babysitting situation with peoples around in this area, they allowed in schools students who was big enough and could comprehend to come in a little earlier. And I just happened to be one of them. And Carver was a great school. And I remember they used to have May Day. We’d plait the maypole. We would square dance. We would sing songs. Then we’d go to the Stephen Foster and plait the maypole out there at the Stephen Foster [inaudible 13:22]. All our teachers at Carver knowed that what they went through, and they tried to apply it to us as students to be more in the education field. Get your education, because you going need it. I had a teacher





named Ms. Mary Grimm. Her husband was the principal, Mr. Grimm. And I had Ms. Sadie Turner. You had Ms. Sally Mae Reddicks. You had Ms. Jefferson. All these was great teachers. They applied. You had Ms. Bryant, too. Man, Ms.

Bryant was something else. She was a great teacher, became the principal of White Springs School, the elementary school out there today. She retired as a principal. She was one of my teachers. Like I say, all our teachers wanted us to gain the best education that we gain. And that they know what we was headed up against. I remember watching the news as a child, Walter Contract or whatever. He would bring the news to us every afternoon, and they would talk about the soldiers in Vietnam, and the Ho Chi Minh trail, how so many was killed today on the Ho Chi Minh Trail. “Fifteen hundred soldiers killed on the Ho Chi Minh Trail.” There was a fire broke out, and all kinds of things that happened. I remember when we got in about the sixth grade or whatever, when President Kennedy, he was assassinated. We all had to go to the lunch room and watch the funeral. And then turn around next, Martin Luther King. Was it that way?

Martin Luther King was assassinated, then Kennedy was assassinated first, right?

	M:	Yes.



	Y:	Yeah. Martin Luther King was assassinated, then Kennedy—. We took a break and saluted the peoples who was assassinated during that time. There was a lot of moving. The riots that broke out down in Miami, all over. All across land in America, the riots broke out, you know? The Black Panthers, and you had Malcolm X, he was on the rise. Back in the movement, we knew how to,





[pantomimes giving dap] “Right on, brother,” and dap a Black man’s hand, you considered as his brother, his best friend. No matter where you at. They integrated schools when I was in seventh grade. We got up to the school the first day, everybody was calling one another names. It was either “nigger” or “cracker.” “Nigger,” “cracker.” Every day we come to school, it was “nigger,” “the cracker this—.” A fight here, a fight there. It’s like, why was we fighting? What was we fighting for? Back in the days, in the evening time, you weren’t allowed uptown. You’d have to use the back streets in White Springs. And my daddy was a full-grown man with four, five kids in the car. He ran up to the store of Mr.

Zandergal, and Mr. Zandergal called him a boy. It was all right by me, but I didn’t know that you don’t have to be a boy to be a boy. Being labeled as a boy, because you were Black. And there was all kind of names for Black peoples. I remember when hotels opened over here, and the springhouse curve had a swimming pool. And my uncle used to work at the Miami Hotel, that’s what it’ name. My uncle used to work there. My momma used to work there. And we always would come to the back door of the hotel. We never could swim in a White’s people swimming pool. And they had a posted sign up there, Whites could only drink from the fountain only. I remember going to the clinic—it was a clinic here in town, and they had a White and Black side. And the Blacks, they had the old, hard chairs, and the Whites had the comfortable lounge chairs. All of that was good, but I didn’t know that we was being discriminated on. Because discrimination as a child, a child don’t see colors. All he know is what you tell him. A child, he come in this world, and he don’t know the Black man from the





yellow man, you know what I’m saying? It’s what you teach him. But as life go on—I went into the Service. Been overseas. I been with so many different nationalities and peoples. I took a sociology class when I was in the Army. And sociology is the changing of society. And my instructor said sociology had no meaning, because society is always changing. But in that class, it broadened my thinking, because the class sociology touched on everything. It touched on norm, spirit of the corps. It touches on groups, individuals. It touch on religion. It touch on ethic, cultural, White, Black; It don’t matter. It touch on slavery.

	M:	And who taught that course? Y:	Say that again?

	M:	Who taught that course?



	Y:	A professor in Germany. I can’t quite remember his name, but I took the course. I was in the military during that time, and I went to school. I went to school. I told them, “If I can improve me, y’all’ll have a better soldier.” [Laughter] So that’s why I got them to put me in school for a little while. But life, man, has its moments, man. Growing up here has been fulfilling, man. I wouldn’t want to go nowhere else in the world. Despite how I live, I can live better now, because I have been through so much. You know? I been through all the racism that they had to offer. They had a street sign right over from this building, over this street right here.

That night, this guy knocked over the sign. Was it was, the Black start dancing with some of the White womens, and then somebody got a little hot. So this guy pull out the shotgun and shot it a couple of times, everybody start booking. And they trying to get away from up in this area. It’s a lot of things that has went on. I





hope it don’t go on no more. I worked with the Forest Service when I got out of the Service back in [19]82. I tried to get into the National Guard in Lake City, but they wouldn’t allow me in the National Guard in Lake City. I say, “I done served four years in the Army, and y’all won’t let me in the National Guard? This a joke!” And I went down to Gainesville. Gainesville told me they’d place me in another unit. They wanted to look into it, why they won’t me in the National Guard. But there was the 153rd, the engineer unit, and my MOS was communication, 36th Charlie. Switchboard operator, telephone man, wiring, stuff like that. But they placed me down in Starke. So they didn’t had nothing for me down there. So what I did was, I crossed over. Cross-trained into air-conditioning and refrigeration. I got in the unit, 631 or whatever that was, for the air-conditioning unit. I became an air-conditioning repair man down there. I stayed down there for three years. Then somebody from Gainesville contact me and told me to go back to Lake City now. They had the opening, a spot over there, 36 Charlie, for communication. I became part of the Lake City unit. I served in the National Guard for six years after I got out of the Service, then I called it quits. I’m still with the Forestry now. I have work, a accident, right here on the springhouse curve.

Florida Rock truck, they turn over, and then banked on the side of the curve. And me and my partner came along, and we had the dozer on the back. We hooked our equipment up to it, and turned it away from the hill, because, see, it’s at a slant. Slide down the hill. So we tried to, like, kept him stable there for a moment. They brought in two large cranes in from Occidental to upright the truck. So I hooked up all the cables on the crane and dug around the embedded truck, the





Florida Rock truck, to link the chains up. The man was dead that we tried to help, but we pulled him the truck before then, they took him away. But anyway, we’re uprighting the truck, the sheriff of Hamilton County wrote me a letter. He wrote, “On behalf of Martine Young, he made a great recovery.” And DOT, they wrote me a letter on the same wavelength. And the divisional coordinator wrote me a pretty good letter for that. Fighting fire, it ain’t no joke, man. I fought fire for fifteen years. I been all out in California, up in the mountains, Montana, and had five thousand five hundred acres of wildfire there. That was about eighteen hundred feet up in the mountain. Sucking air, man. I’m drinking two gallons of water: a gallon before lunch and a gallon after lunch for water. And it get cool up in the mountains at night. We’d get down to about thirty, man, but the daytime is scorching. Had gold up in the mountains. Had all kind of marijuana in the mountain. You see it, take flags there. “Don’t go this way!” And it’s gold everywhere down this stream. They tell them to abandon their area. They had them shooting out there when you come across their land, because they don’t want you panhandling they gold. They said, “So let’s don’t mess with that” while we’re there. But we was out there protecting them. The Diamonds’ dude ranch in Montana, the woman was a senator. She’s a mother of a senator. And so, you know a senator going make sure his mom’s going be [inaudible 27:33] way out there in the mountain. But anyway, we did the best we could, and we saved the ranch. Had quarter horses out there. I was so high up in the mountain, I got on my butt. I went sliding down there—I’m serious, man! I was walking at a slant.

And I had this guy from Tennessee, he part Mongol. He was taking me places





that I couldn’t really go, but with his help, I was getting there. But he left me and went ahead. And I looked back down. [Laughter] And I rode ahead, I said, “I can’t go ahead, because he ain’t there to help me.” So I had to go back down.

	M:	And when was that? Y:	Huh?

	M:	When was that?



	Y:	Back in [19]9—probably [19]95, [19]96, somewhere. When they had the big fire in California. On the Pacific Valley Coastline where they had the mudslides on Route 66. Yeah, Route 66 next to the ocean. We used to come down off the mountains and sit, watch the [inaudible 28:44], the sun go down. Oh man, it’s such a beautiful—the sun going down in the afternoon after a long work day. But I tell you, that water is icy cold, man. I went and jumped in the lake. I see everybody else down there dipping at the lake. Why should I stop that? And then they screamed just dipping in it. I got my shorts on. I said, “Why are you all there?” I went and jumped in the lake. It feel like needles stuck me. That water’s so cold, I almost ran out. Everybody was laughing at me, man! [Laughter] And you see me going out there, with my shorts on, and everybody looking at me. I wondered why they looking at me so strange, you know? I went and jumped in that water, I found out.

	M:	Did you go swimming much around here growing up? Did you ever go swimming around here growing up?

	Y:	Oh, yeah. Man, we stayed in the Suwannee River. Yeah, that’s my swimming hole right down in there. Growing up as a kid, my uncle, he moved to South





Florida. Down there in Clewiston, a town called Clewiston. He made sure as a kid growing up, he said, “Now, Black peoples don’t know how to swim. We need to get swimming more.” He took me down there, and he learned me how to swim.

That’s just his way, he was telling me he want me to learn how to swim. Because up here, peoples were drowning in the Suwannee River, and they almost drowning in the bathtub! [Laughter] Because hey, the water, man? Water fright peoples that can’t swim. He was making sure that didn’t happen to me. I became a lifeguard when I was in the Service. I saved a few peoples when I was in the Army. We went on activities for the Service, and peoples fell off the boat. I helped them. They got a place called Jerry Barnett Pond. That’s the place all the Blacks in the Black quarters used to go swimming in. You know, Black Jerry Barnett Pond. You’d go out there, and you’d be trying to swim, and the fishes nibbled on you a little bit! [Laughter] Oh, we used to go out there all the time, though. Jerry Barnett Pond. Down there in the hood, growing up, when the White people crossed the railroad tracks in the Black section, Black peoples was kind of hostile by them coming into the hood. They liable to throw a bottle or brick, something like that. Certain White peoples go down there, the badasses coming out there, and they all go, “Shit!” They might run for the house. It’s strange how times done changed. It used to be a club—yeah, about three, four clubs down in the Black neighborhood. They had Dewdrop Inn. One thing about the Dewdrop Inn: when I was growing up as a kid, you couldn’t be where the adults be. Kids had to be where kids be, and adults had their own privacy. If I wanted to see my daddy at the club when I was a child, they would stop me way before I get to the club, and





they ask me who I’m looking for. Then they’ll go find him and bring him to me. I wasn’t allowed in the area where it was. There was so much respect back then. My granddaddy always say, your word is your bond. So if you tell a person you going do something, you best do it. I don’t know what it was back then. It’s so many rules back then, and the regulations. Even my granddaddy, when they used to work the logging, like chipping the trees. He used to chip the trees. When I was a kid, man, this area was famous for its turpentine. They had these slash pines. It was the trees they would grow on. And rattlesnakes were bad, and moccasins were bad here, too. They used to have bears. Used to have panthers up in this area. Back in them days, my granddaddy out there at a camp. It’s on One Mile Still. They used to have a camp out there, and my granddaddy used to stay out there at that camp all the time. He didn’t come home. Back in his time, it was a camp. And peoples had to live at the camp and stay at the camp. He wasn’t allowed to leave the camp. But I don’t understand that.

	M:	Do you remember who owned that camp?



	Y:	It’s right out here on 25A. I am trying to think of what the camp is. I know the man ought to know. I used to pile firewood around and burn it for him. I had a stroke back in 2004. I was live-flighted to north end of the county. And they sent me from there to Gainesville. And I was in a coma, they say. Then they called the family in twice for me not to make it. And I caught pneumonia while I was in the hospital. And they said I had a disease called meningitis, which I didn’t have. I’m here today, because the doctors predict me to go the other way. That’s why I love the Lord so. The Lord has been good to me, man. This is a poem I wrote. I





had to learn how to walk again. I had to learn how to talk again. I had to learn how to think again. They wanted to put me into a home, and my mother say, “I got a home for him. Let him out here, I got a home for him.” So they went to working with me. They had me to start walking during the day. They had me give me different things would make me think. One was, “Go past the nurses’ desk.

Stop at the first room, open the door, go in that icebox, and get a milk.” So, I did according to what the paper said, but the door was locked. I say, “How could I get in the door that you got locked?” He said, “Go try it again.” So I went and got the milk and drunk it, and I left the carton there. “Oh, so you do know.” She let me come home after that. After something small like that, she let me come home. But I was supposed to stay home for a couple weeks and go back to the hospital. I been home ever since [20]05. Home. My mother, she had cancer and ended up going home. When I was in that coma, I was with the Lord. I seen my momma. I seen a lot of stuff in the coma, that if I’m going to Heaven, I’m ready today. But I told my momma, when I got out the hospital, I said, “Momma, go in the hospital and have yourself checked out.” She say, “Son, what you talking about? I’m all right.” I said, “Momma, I seen where you were hurting, somewhere around your ribs, when I was in my coma. You got hurt around your ribs somewhere. You need to go have that checked out.” Find out—Momma let a year go by, and my uncle made her go to the hospital, and she had cancer in her breast. And it had spread. She wanted to leave the hospital that night to come home when the doctors say they’d confine her. I said, “No.” I told them, “You all keep her for observation, and run some tests on her, and then let her come home.” That’s the





only way they found the cancer, when I told them to run the test. So, way before that, she’d have did what I say. You don’t really visualize something. It come to you in a different way, you know what I’m saying? It came to me with the rib being broken. It took her almost a year later before the conclusion hit her that she supposed to been somewhere. I was trying to get her up on something that needed to be looked into before it got looked into. I guess that ain’t the way it’s supposed to end up. I had a great momma, it happens. She worked. Oh, she worked. I had a great Momma, man. She worked one job. She worked another job. Then she turned around. Peoples used to bring her clothes to wash, to iron. Stuff like that. That was extra change, you know? She worked her own job, and then she go out and work a restaurant job in the afternoon on 75. Matter of fact, she helped me about my first job out there on 75 as a dishwasher. I used to leave school early and go to work. I used to get out at two o’clock, go to work.

Two to ten on 75. In the eleventh grade, I started that, and twelfth grade. I used to work three jobs myself. I used to work at an egg farm, I used to work cooking, then I had another job also. We did a lot of things, man. But these are some of the poems I got. What do you want to ask me? You got something you want to ask me?

	M:	Sure, I mean, I got all kinds of things. Y:	Go ahead.

	M:	Okay, can I ask, what was your mother’s name? Y:	Mary Louise McKire, her maiden name.

	M:	McCall.





	Y:	McKire. M-C-K-I-R-E.



	M:	Okay, and was she from White Springs?



	Y:	From White Springs. She born on twenty-five, eight. About seven miles from here, out of town. My momma’ momma’ name was Mary Newsom. We started from the Newsom. My granddaddy was John McKire, my granddaddy. He had three kids. He had two boys and a girl. His oldest son was Joseph McKire, which was the mayor here for about seven years. She had one—Howard McKire. My mother’ name is Mary Louise McKire. She married a Young, which, Martine Young, she married Martine Young. Then she married again. She married George Brown, which she became a Brown. She had two kids from George Brown. My mother was a strong Black woman. She was very religious. She was blessed with the gift. She liked to give peoples. She liked to help peoples. A lot of peoples helpeded her, too. I can’t say enough about her. She was a mother that raised her kids pretty much by herself. See, help was there, but the help wasn’t really there like she needed. But she raised her kids. She made it happen. That’s what a mother do. She make it happen.

	M:	That’s true.



	Y:	Anything else?



	M:	Sure. Was most of the work she did domestic work? You said she did laundry and stuff for people.

	Y:	Yeah, but she had a job, too.



	M:	We shouldn’t have the cell phone too close to the recorder.





	Y:	Oh, sorry. She had a job that she retired from. She worked there for thirty years at Occidental, PCS. At PCS. She retired from PCS after thirty years. That was her job. She was a custodian for thirty years. She helped a lot of peoples. She worked in the administration part of the plant, so she helped a lot of peoples got hired. Because she was dropping some good names in the hat when they were searching for some good peoples. My mother, she had embedded in all us to have our own, and to grow up to respect other people’s ways as theirs, you know what I’m saying? When my mother was growing up, my granddaddy used to stay with us. By me growing up with my grandma and granddaddy, it’s like having an edge a little bit on my momma and daddy. Because I’m watching my grandma and granddaddy, they taught them. They got more strict discipline than we did.

It’s like the ways of the world. For them, it’s almost do or die. We inherited love. We inherited genes. We had the blessing of just being who they are. But me—I can’t speak for the whole town, man. I can speak for myself.

M:   Sure.



	Y:	It’s just, life has its moments. I feel like this is my moment of all my life. I got the opportunity to express where I came from and how I came about. It give me great honor to sit before you and speak of these things, that somebody may realize that it ain’t easy here. It hasn’t been easy, but you can make it easy. Your choice, it ain’t where you at or where you come from, it’s where you headed, and where you want to be. I never been the one to let the label that’s being placed on me stick to me. You got options to be overcome, but you got to endure. You might have to endure a whole lot before you overcome. If you don’t have no faith, you’ll





never overcome. It ain’t so much about overcoming. It’s about just being where you want to be at the time you want to be.

	M:	That’s still a little close to the recorder. Y:	Oh, I’m sorry.

	M:	Oh, it’s cool.



	Y:	I want to get some of my poems in there, man. M:	Then do it, please.

	Y:	I’m going to pull some of them on this Facebook. I got them.



	M:	Yeah, let’s. And I do have some more questions, but they can wait. Y:	Go ahead. Go ahead.

	M:	No, the poems first.



	Y:	Ask the question while I’m pulling this up.



	M:	Okay. So which grandfather—was it John McKire, who was the one who working turpentine?

	Y:	Yes. Yeah.



	M:	Okay. Did you know your grandparents pretty well then? You said you grew up with them.

	Y:	I know my granddaddy on my mom’s side. I know my grandma on my daddy’s side. My granddaddy, he wasn’t nothing to play with, man, as far as him getting his point across. Papa beat, back in our day. What you call child abuse today, was just a good beating back in the old days, man. My granddaddy say he want you to get up and rake the yard? You don’t move on your time. You move when you is told to do it. Other than that, you getting that switch put on you right away.





But that made sense, you know? To do something when you told, instead of waiting ‘til you wanted to do it. We had prayer in school. We used to go to school every morning and pray, “Our Father,” and then turn around and say, “Pledge allegiance to the flag,” representing America. Back when I was growing up, we was frightened to death of the country from being blowed up by a nuclear weapon. Because back in them days, even Ronald Reagan, he started the Star War program. We was more thinking in terms of Castro in Cuba trying to set up some way that the Russians will come in and blow us up or whatever. It’s a lot of world issues that we played on or played on us. I watched the movie about Eisenhower and the wars and stuff, and some of the decisions he had to make. When it come to making the decision, you can’t waver your thoughts. You got to be positive in what you trying to portray. If you don’t, you waver, it’s going come back on you. Like I say about my granddaddy, my granddaddy was born on Lake Jefferey Road, over about twelve miles from here in a town called Lake City. My granddaddy, my uncle, when we go to a family reunion, we trace our roots back. My granddaddy is one of the only peoples in Florida to ever grow rice in this area of White Springs. He growed his own rice. He had a ox named Bully. He planted his own food. He planted vegetables, peas, the rice, the corn, cabbage; whatever have it, come out the field, my granddaddy could grow it. As a child, my granddaddy would sometimes hook me up with some straps on me and had me pulling his little—what’s that is? They tilling the ground with? Have me pulling this little tiller. What do they call it by name?

	M:	Not the plow, but the—I know what you mean, yeah.





	Y:	Little tiller, like. He had me with straps on there pulling it for him. But I did what he wanted me to do. When my uncle was in Vietnam, he wanted my granddaddy to clean a lot up for him that had palmettos on it. We had to use grubbing hoe, and all kind of old tools. There wasn’t nothing modern about what was going on like the world today. We made our own swimming pool. We dug a hole, pumped water out of the pump, and poured it in the tub. We splashed around in a swimming pool that we made for ourselves that was nothing but a hole that we dug. And it was hot that summer. We was a bunch of muddy boys, that’s what that was. But we did that. When I was a kid, all kinds of peoples used to come to the Stephen Foster Memorial. So my dad, we was about six, seven years old, he bought me a harmonica; my brother Winnie, a drum; and my brother Cabo, a guitar; and my brother Taylor, he had a tambourine. We all get down to the end of the road, at the park entrance, and we would be playing our instruments. And the people come out and put money in the hat for us. And we thought it was fun as kids. We had the little group. Before the Jackson Five come out, we was the Young Four. [Laughter] We had a little groove, man. We got down. It was fun back then.

	M:	What did your dad do? Y:	Say that again.

	M:	What did your dad do for a living?



	Y:	Basically, back then, most Blacks did pulp. I call it pulp work, log working. Go out all day, man, he got a knot on his shoulder where he’d put a log about that size





on his shoulder, and walk and throw it on truck, man. You know them pulpwood trucks?

	M:	Oh yeah.



	Y:	Yeah. After that, he retired from Occidental. He was a dozer operator. One of them big boys. Twelve or whatever. A dozer operator. I used to tell him about my little dozer that I had from forestry. He had one of them big boys that walked out through the woods and pushed the whole thing over and keep going. I’m talking about this whole house here. Push it over and keep going. He had a dozer about like that. They had him working on big old dikes out there. PCS, they go in, clear out a bunch of land, and that’s what he did. He’s been retired now for about ten years now or better. But that’s what he did. The dozer work. Him and my mom worked at the same place. She worked in the administration as a custodian, he worked in the field as a dozer operator. And my brother, Johnny, he teach tennis over there in Lake City.

	M:	Oh yeah?



	Y:	He works at the country club. He’s the manager of the country club. He’s been doing that about ten years now, teaching tennis. He was number one in the state at one time in tennis.

	M:	That at Carver?



	Y:	No, that’s the Lake City Community College team. He went to college. He went to Carver, but Carver had changed over. Yeah, he went to Carver, too. But one thing about Carver, the peoples before me went to Carver—my auntie, she went to Carver. And my auntie, she got a son my same age. My Aunt Vera, she used





to play basketball at Carver. They used to have a women’s team. You had a guys’ team. And Carver was a school. Carver was a high school at one point. It was Carver High. Now, they done changed it to an elementary school. And now, it ain’t nothing at all, man, but some bricks sitting out there that could have been turned into something. I don’t know why they take these building and put all this money into them, and then just let them go to waste after so long. Boy, now ask your questions. I still ain’t got to where I’m going.

	M:	Okay, okay. So, you said your grandfather was from Lake City, is that right? Y:	Right.

	M:	And then, did he move here to work turpentine?



	Y:	Yes sir. He was the crossties, that’s what he died. He worked with crossties. He sort of like went where they went, cutting crossties. Matter of fact, one of his arms, something happened to it from the crossties, and he had one good arm. Because he stretched it out some kind of way, and it messed it up, messing with them crossties.

	M:	That’s some tough work. Y:	Say again?

	M:	That’s tough work.



	Y:	Yeah, I didn’t know it was finished then. But I remember my grandma had about five or six sisters. My grandma’ name was Cleo Newsom. She had one sister—Aunt Vera, Aunt Margaret, Aunt Bernice; and man, she had one in New York. But my grandma like big momma. Like the movie Big Momma? My grandma had to hold things together. She kept the family together. When





everything seem like it was hitting the fan, my grandmother would be right there straightening things up. She keep my daddy perked up, make him do what he got to do. Keep all the sons perked up. You had [inaudible 59:47], Aunt Josephine, Uncle Jimmy Jay, Uncle Arnett, and my dad Martine. She had five kids. And she ruled with an iron fist. Whatever she said went. I don’t care how grown they was, my grandma was the boss, you know what I’m saying? That’s just the way it goes. Back then, the elder peoples, they commanded something. Just like God talking to you: it got to be done. That’s a way of life. My grandma, she kept us alive. She made sure everything was going smooth. My momma and daddy wanted to buy me a car after she bought the two other sons a car. My grandma said, “He got to have a car, too.” So my grandma, she went out and bought my first car. And that meant a lot to me. My grandma took me to Wes Haney over in Live Oak. Mr. Wes Haney was at the lot. I looked at the car, it’s one of the souped-up cars that had the big tires on it. I ran over to that first. I say, “Bring me the keys to that.” I couldn’t wait to get the keys to it. I hopped in it. My grandmother got in the passenger side. Mr. Wes Haney sat in the back. The first thing I did when I got the car, I wait until I got up to the road, I mashed down and hit it real hard, spin out with it. And Mr. Wes Haney in the back seat, we go around and, “Call him back!” [Laughter] And I kept hearing him down the road, get up to the pass, bring the car on back. And then Mr. Wes Haney look at me, and then look at my grandma. My grandma got a smile from ear to ear. And Mr.

Wes Haney, he say, “What you think?” And the car got all kind of fluid pouring out up under it. And Mr. Wes Haney say, “Ms. Cleo, I don’t got nothing on the lot





for him right now. You just give me a little while.” And grandma say, “I’ll give you a little while, Mr. Haney. You know kids; they want what they want right then,” and stuff like that. We give Mr. Wes Haney a month, and I went back over there, he gave me a [19]69 Buick. An old woman had had the car, so you know the car was in good shape. So I bought a car, fifteen hundred dollars. I drove the car; I could never get it over fifty-five miles an hour. One day, I got mad at the car. Mr. Wes Haney had already sell it to me, now. So I mashed it down to the floor and held it, and the car went pop-pop-pop-pop, pop-pop-thunk-thunk. It kept popping and thunking. And finally, a gust of dust came out the exhaust pipe. That’s the carbon had done built up in the car. And when that carbon came out the tailpipe, that thing started increasing speed finally, I was so happy. I got to about a hundred miles an hour, then I let off. After that, I didn’t have no problem with speed. That’s the best car I ever had in my life. I messed around—ten years later, I sold it when I went to the Army to a guy that see me drove it to Georgia. I sold it for fifteen hundred dollars. Same thing I bought it for. Ten years later—he took it to New York, got it stolen, and had to leave it. I never heard no more about that.

	M:	So your grandmother, where was she from? Y:	Where was she from?

	M:	Your grandmother, you said her name was Cleo Newsom, right? Y:	Right.

	M:	Where was she from?





	Y:	From White Springs. I have to believe she’s from White Springs, because she had all her sisters living in White Springs. She had a sister in the country. And all her sisters, they were close. My grandmother leave, go to one of sister’s house. We go over to her sister’ house, and we was eating like at my grandma’s house. They killed hogs, and they would all get together and split the meat and stuff like that. Back then, that was a way of life, to raise your own food, to raise your own plants in the field, eat off the farm. My momma went and bought a whole cow.

Put it in the box.



	M:	And you kept chickens, you were saying, too?



	Y:	Yeah, kept chickens. One time, she must have bought the wrong chickens. Them little bantam chickens?

	M:	Oh yeah.



	Y:	They so small! Mom cooked them things up, leave it on the plate—throw that thing away soon as she get gone, man! [Laughter] That’s a tough meat. We liked ‘coon. That’s a good meat.

	M:	Did you do a lot of hunting?



	Y:	I did a lot of trying to hunt. I hunt with, with God’s name. But Oliver Dye, now he was a great hunter. And a trapper, too. To me, because I was a kid. I was going through stuff like that right there, and it stick so bad I had him tote me on his back. I was just that small then. I could go right on his back, piggyback, he would put me down. They had ‘coon traps. They had traps, otter traps. He’d be trapping everything. So when he trap, I go with him, and he get his catch. All right. There we go.





	M:	Okay, so we got a poem now. Y:	This is one here:

1:45, Wednesday after midnight, 8/13/2014

Called him up.



Oh, Holy Ghost power. Come thee, Lord Almighty. He will settle in my soul.

This will comfort me.



This will carry me on beyond my power Of my state of mind.

This allow me to surpass my own thoughts, What I’m thinking.

	M:	Having trouble finding the—? Y:	Yeah, having trouble getting in.

	M:	I see. So, when did you start writing poems?



	Y:	I never thought of poem in the world until I went in the hospital. I come out the hospital, I’m writing poems. I’m writing songs. What is this? I’m going tell you what happened, man: I used to smoke drugs, whatever. Crack cocaine. When I was smoking, I didn’t have no problem with it. The people with me, they always wanted me to share. Man, you can’t share that little drug, because it ain’t enough of it. But the thing is, I always did. The Lord, he got to be with me, because a man came all the way from Portland, Oregon. He travelled three days and three





nights, he told me. This got to be true. I paint all over town. As a matter of fact, that house—you can’t see it, but it’s on the curve back over this way?

	M:	Okay.



	Y:	I painted that house. I painted all the houses on this front street. I used to paint. I contracted myself up. But the thing is, as I was painting that house that day, right across from the hardware store—five thousand dollar house, that is what I was painting it for. The man came riding through town. He was looking up at me on the roof. I was looking at him. I say, “This is another paint job.” He turned around and went on across the river and came back. He looked at me, and he walked up in the yard. I came on off the roof. I said, “How you doing today?” He said, “Have I gone through Florida yet? Because I just crossed a bridge, am I in another state?” I said, “Man, you ain’t went through Florida yet; you just getting in Florida.” I said, “You won’t be at the end of Florida until about five hundred miles, about.” He said, “Man, I been travelling for three days and nights.” He said, “The Lord sent me to Florida to pray for a man.” I said, “He did?” [Laughter] He grabbed me. He said, “It’s you.” He hugged me, and he told me, “The Lord got something He want you to do. He sent me to let you know that he is with you. No matter what you going through”—because I was going through some stuff. And he let me know. It’s like the Lord sent him to tell me it’s time to put that behind you. So I had some of that stuff in my pocket after that. He gave me a Bible. He rode on back. He done did his job, now. The Lord done sent him. He kept in touch with me. He contacted me when I was in the hospital as well. He say, “I’m praying for you. You going get through this.” He was on my team. I had





something in my pocket. I said, “Well, I’ll smoke this up and I’ll be done with it.” I didn’t like he was talking about. I live-flight to the hospital. Then after, that then my house burnt down. I said, “Man, it’s time to get on the right track.” No—first, my house burned down. A week past that, my house burnt down. Then after that, about a month later, I live-flight to the hospital. Then I began to take heed to what he talking about. So I’m at the state today to where it’s been, like, maybe six or seven years since that. I don’t have the desire for nothing but the Lord no more. But he had to travel three days and three nights to let me know that the Lord would allow me to do this. You don’t think so? Only He could’ve fixed this up.

Only he can do this. I’m going get into this phone, man. Ask me some more questions. I’m going get into some of these poems that I wanted you to read.

	M:	Okay. Okay. You said the “Dewdrop Inn.” Y:	Yeah.

	M:	That’s D-O… “Do-Drop,” or is it like—? Y:	D-E-W.

	M:	Okay. “Dewdrop.” Like the Dewdrop Inn.



	Y:	Dew, dew. Dewdrop Inn. A lot of good times went on in there. In my teenage years, they turned it into a teenage club. I had a chance to get in there. Only main club I was allowed in was the Red Rooster, man. That was a nice club. But the Dewdrop Inn, when they got new ownership, teenagers used to disco around there a lot.

	M:	So, who owned the Red Rooster?





	Y:	A guy named Frank. That’s way back in the day. That baby is torn down now, man. All these places but that Carver. Carver’s the only thing standing around here, except for the Dewdrop Inn. It’s a hole in the wall now because ain’t nothing in there. It’s stripped.

	M:	So who owned the Dewdrop Inn back—? Y:	They called him, a man named “Ace.”

	M:	Ace.



	Y:	Yeah, Vera Brown’s husband.



	M:	Were there any other Black businesses in White Springs back then? Did people have stores, or restaurants, or anything like that?

	Y:	No. None of them to my knowledge. But my momma could’ve been a vendor. My momma used to sell fish, and hamburger, and chicken, and she did that for years. Everybody from all over, she would go all night, through the night, some weekends. Sometimes, she would do it on Sunday. So, the whole weekend. She would sell from that afternoon ‘til about nine o’clock. Always slept through five o’clock in the morning, she have to—somebody’d be ordering something. My momma used to do that. Sell fish, and chicken, and hamburger. Sometimes hotdog. She did that for maybe about seven years or better. But later in the late [19]80s, she selled hot plates from the house. Home-cooked food. Mary Scippio. But my momma was the only person I know that sold food every weekend, except for peoples that’s coming to set up for the weekend for a hotspot, trying to make a little hustle. She sold hers every weekend.





	M:	Do you remember who the barbers were, or the hairdressers, or anything like that?

	Y:	My barber was my dad, Martine Young. [Laughter] M:	All right.

	Y:	Hey, he was a few people’s barber, too, in this town. Abe Pender, he was another barber. Yeah. And then Unc Levy. Unc Levy, he was another barber that a lot of peoples used.

	M:	I see. You mentioned you ate raccoon. What other kinds of stuff did you eat?



	Y:	Some people eat opossum. They eat ‘coon. Hey, take a moment and check some of this out. You ready to read through that? Pull another screen up.

	M:	Okay. So you want me to read this out loud?



	Y:	Yeah, it’s up to you. I want you to see it. Same thing, I’m going to use the restroom right quick. Anything [inaudible 1:17:55] what we got going here.

[Break in recording]



	M:	All right. So we’ll just start this back up. You said they used to do May Day even when you were a kid.

	Y:	Yeah.



	M:	And these days, they’re still doing an Emancipation Day celebration in May.



	Y:	On Emancipation Day, they celebration by cooking out. They have vendors come by wanting to sell different clothes and items that they have. It’s mostly cooking. Everything is free. Just fellowshipping with one another. People from all over. I think last May Day, we had over a thousand peoples come. And they had music playing. They had some spiritual gospel singers. And they had a DJ come and do





his thing, and play some live music. It’s just a joyful day to get out and greet, and meet peoples from all over. That’s what the May Day is about now. There’s no gains or nothing involved, just good barbecue, good eating, and good fellowship with peoples. There’s some music, there’s some gospel entertainment. That’s about it for May Day. It’s just a bunch of people getting together and enjoying some good eating from some great chefs. And everybody bring out they best recipe on May Day, because they want to show their best that day.

	M:	So, it’s changed over the years?



	Y:	It’s changed over the years. It’s changed according to the times, you know? Time changes things. As times change, peoples change. You do what come natural according to the times.

	M:	Makes sense. When you were growing up, on May Day, did they talk much about Emancipation or anything like that?

	Y:	Emancipation, man—everything about slavery or have anything to do with hardship was pretty much kept quiet and on the down low. Nothing was advertised about how we were being treated as a people. I couldn’t come home and tell my momma somebody called me a nigger. That wasn’t questionable.

You know what I’m saying? But the thing is, even my parents kept their hardship or what they was even doing, kept it away from me as a child. We experienced it when we would run into it, we was confronted with it head-up. That’s the only way we experienced. We wasn’t taught to stray from it. We weren’t taught to run into it. But as we come across it, then we’d have to endure the moment of it. It





wasn’t something to be proud of. Being who you is, don’t take away from being who you want to be. That’s the way I see it.

	M:	That’s well said. Okay, so that’s kind of how you made it through, I guess? Or, how the community made it through, I guess?

	Y:	As a child have been blinded to realities of race that we inherit, you can’t let race destroy who you are as a person or individual. I can’t go back into 1958 and make it 2014. I wouldn’t want to go back into 1958. Because in 1958, that’s a crucial time for Black peoples to even want to be Black. To now to think about where I come from, it is just a blessing that I’m not where I come from. I’m where I am at now. It’s a blessing to be here, and to look back and think back in history. That’s what it is, history. [Laughter] That’s where I’m going leave it, in history.

You have to be strapped back in them days when you didn’t have to be strapped. And to be strapped, you be in prison somewhere. Don’t imprison yourself because somebody else trying to imprison you. Always be free, no matter where you at. If you in prison, be free in your prison. Be free. Let yourself be free in mind. I always travel in my mind. When the situation get too bad, I let my mind take me somewhere else where it’s better at. And then I let it keep me there until the situation blow over. I remember when I was in the National Guard down in Starke. I used to like to hang out with my White friends. And I’d go over there and hang out deep back in the woods with nobody but me and them, a bunch of White friends. And it’d be seven or eight of them and just one of me. We were sitting back there just drinking and having a good time. One day, I was drinking and having a good time with them, and one of the guys stepped up to me and





say, “Why aren’t you hanging out with your own color?” I said, “Man, why I got to hang out with own color when I can hang out with y’all and have twice as much fun?” So, he started pushing on me, so I thought to throw him around. The big guy of the crew, with the party I was with, was named Red. Red say, “That’s enough.” I kept on throwing him around. So pretty soon, Red walked up to me and grabbed me. And before you know it, I had flipped Red over, and Red flipped back on top of me and had a big bowie knife around my neck, pressing up against my throat. And I told Red, “Go ahead and do it, if you man enough.” I mean, go ahead and cut my throat. But the guys all pulling on Red. Four guys grab—two grabbed Red up on the one arm, two or three grabbed Red up on the other arm. Said, “Red, don’t do it! Don’t do it!” But I got up from under Red. I got moving. [Laughter] I wouldn’t worry about hanging with the crowd no more, so I started hanging out with my brothers. And that’s where I have been hanging ever since. It wasn’t a lesson of Red trying to kill me, and I got away. It’s just the fact that I was outnumbered, and I still was standing up for myself. And Red just happened to be there to be the biggest obstacle in my way. But I didn’t hold nothing against Red, and I don’t hold nothing against the crowd I was with. They was my brothers just like all my other brothers. And in Christ, we all family. So, I learned to live with that.

	M:	One more thing I thought I’d ask about: the sticks. When did you start carving these sticks?

	Y:	My granddaddy, he used to make walking sticks. He used to make rocking chair handles. My granddaddy was a master carpenter, and it took its own form.





Peoples from all over would have something break, and they would bring it to my granddaddy, and my granddaddy would put it back together again for them. My granddaddy was selling more sticks than a hardware store at that time, because he was making his sticks out of hickory. And he’d soak them in a barrel, and he’ll dress them down, and then peel them off with a splicer that he put in both hands. It just keep splicing until he form it and shape it like he wanted. He’d soak them and bend them with a piece of wire to the form he wanted them at. He was good at what he did. He even build room onto my house. After I went to the hospital, it seemed like I started seeing things in sticks. I began to work with the sticks and make what I see. It’s all a part of tradition that runs in the family from granddaddy, what he used to do. I’m the only one in the family that took after him on the making of walking sticks and doing different things. But my uncle, he’s a great carpenter. He reads the blueprints. He built my momma’ house, a two-story [inaudible 1:29:16] house we living in today. My uncle told me, “I don’t want you to be lack of skills when it comes to work.” So as he built, he come and got me in, and showed me how to read the tape measure, and showed me how to put shingles on the house, and how to measure the roof to put shingles on, how to read a blueprint on a house, how to do the plumbing, how to do the electrical work. He showed the wiring of a house is simple, but always let the electrician hook it to the box. I pretty much know how to do the basic things when it come to carpentry and plumbing, painting. The stuff that’ll get you by and help you make a dollar, and it keep you going. We was never that family. We learned trades to keep us working, you know? Whatever trade it is that take us to get to job, we





went on to learn that trade to get the job. Because the workforce, you got to know how to work in order to keep a job. You just can’t have a job. To keep a job, you got to know what you doing. And that’s the part where my family came in, to make sure that we got a job, but we could keep the job according to our ability to perform.

	M:	Do you know where your grandfather learned to do all that woodworking and carpentry?

	Y:	At the house. Right there at the house, they have a place, like, put away in the backyard. He had his own little place, his little area, where he keep his tools and everything. It wasn’t like today where you have your own little workroom. You had workspace, where you keep your tools and keep everything. If it was anything of value, you have a tarp around it. A tarp they put around it, keep it out the weather. Black people back then, there wasn’t stealing going on like they do now. It’s so much respect in the old days. Everybody was neighborly. “Yes sir.” “No sir.” “Good morning.” “Good evening.” Stuff like that. That goes a long ways when you treat. My granddaddy had one saying he taught me to live by. And his saying was, “Do unto others as you wish to be done on to you.” That was his. My grandma had one. My grandma’s saying was, “Love everybody. Son, you got to love everybody. The Lord love everybody, you got to love everybody, too.” That was her way. I try to pattern myself from where I came from to where I’m at now. This is another one of my poems. It’s called “My Future.”

In my future



I see my past





There I was



Like a little kid looking Through a hourglass

Wondering what my future would be. Wanting to grow up fast

So I could see



What a little kid like me Would turn out to be.

Wanting to be the best. Wanting to be better Than the rest.

In my future state of mind,



I know it was nothing but time



Time to watch the seasons change. Time to watch winters turn into fall, Fall turn into spring.

Here comes summer;



Wow, year done rolled about. In my future state of mind,

I know it was nothing but time. In the past,

What considered was child abuse,



In today’s world was just a good whooping





Back in the past. In today’s world,

It’s considered a child abuse. Always, “Yes sir,”

“Yes ma’am,”



“No ma’am,” “How you doing?” “Good morning,” “Good evening.”

The thing I always remember the most Was always church and Sunday school. White shirt, bow tie,

Black pants, black shoes. Every Sunday morning.

I didn’t know then Like I know now. In my past,

Yesterday, today, and tomorrow, Lord, Jesus Christ.

Is the son of Jehovah. My future: eternal life.

That’s “My Future.” That’s the poem. [Laughter] That’s “My Future.” If the Lord comes with eternal life, I want a part of that future that he promised, you know?





But the thing is, I’m glad I had the chance to express myself to you and to history. And I’ll tell anybody from [19]58 forward and [19]58 back to never be ashamed of where you come from. That conditions that you facing, the Lord made a way through it, and he got you where you at now. So, run home for a year and prosper and in Jesus’ name. And if you look back, try not to look back long enough to where it’ll draw you back where you won’t—where you get stuck back there. It’s time to keep on moving on. It’s good use looking back as a tool, as a foundation to know, because you ain’t going to go back that way no more and be that which you used to be. And don’t let nobody put a label on you, because the Lord died for everybody. And when you cut one of us, we all bleed some red blood. You know what I’m saying? And that’s what count. The blood of Jesus Christ bled for all us. That’s why we should get along with one another and to love one another. And let peace be on earth with one another. That’s about it for me, my brother.

	M:	Yeah. Thank you very much.



	Y:	Yeah, I thank you, man. I thank you for having me, and let me know how it all come out.

	M:	Oh, I will certainly do that. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Derick Gomez, June 2, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, June 25, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019