AAHP 198; Jones; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 198 Isaac Jones

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Angela Thorpe on October 21, 2011 45 minutes | 17 pages



Abstract: Isaac Jones (b. 1943) grew up in Gainesville, Florida. He talks about his experiences growing up with Jim Crow segregation, and also talks about what the 5th Avenue area of Gainesville was like during segregation—the community ethics, the Black-owned businesses, some memories of the Civil Rights Movement, and so on. He is a veteran of the US Air Force, and he describes attending Howard University and then later the University of Florida. He suggests that he was the second Black student to be in the College of Physical Education and Health at UF, and describes being able to clearly see that the instructors were trying to make Black students fail in their classes. Mr. Jones joined the UF football team as a walk-on. He shares some thoughts toward the end of the interview about his vision for revitalizing the economy in the 5th Avenue neighborhood.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; US Military Veterans]













































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 198

Interviewee: Isaac Jones Interviewer: Angela Thorpe Date: October 21, 2011



	T:	Hello. Today is October 21st, 2011. It is 2:54 p.m. I am Angela Thorpe and I am here with Dr. Isaac Jones. So, when were you born and where were you born?

	J:	I was born in 1943—April of 1943—and I was born in Gainesville, Florida. T:	Growing up, where did you live in Gainesville?

	J:	I lived on the east side of town, the northeast and the southeast. Lived in and was brought up pretty much in the projects and stuff like that.

	T:	So is it close to this area or is it kinda further away?



	J:	Yeah, this is northwest here; I was born completely over on the other side, the northeastern side.

	T:	So what was it like for you growing up as a Black child in Gainesville?



	J:	Okay, I was born in an area which, you know, the Blacks were on one side of the street and the Whites were on the other side of the street. It was a very segregated society in terms of schools, in terms of eating establishments, in terms of drinking fountains; there was the colored fountain and the Black fountain. In restaurants we had to go to the back of the restaurant to be served hamburgers or meals, or something like that. So that was the kind of environment that I was raised in. Very prejudice society at that particular time.

	T:	Really quickly—the signal from my phone might mess this up, so I’m gonna turn it off very quickly. I apologize. So when would you say that you became aware of segregation? Was there a certain age, or a certain event that made you realize that, hey, I’m different, or what was it?





	J:	I think it was probably around the age of—oh, nine or ten when I really realized what was going on. Because prior to that time, one of my best friends was a White boy that lived across the street by the name of Randy, and, you know, he and I never had any problems at an early age. But when I became older I began to see the differences in the establishments that I couldn’t enter or, you know, having to sit on the back of the bus, or to drinking out of separate fountains, and being called names and stuff like that. I really realized that, hey, something is different.

T:  So did your parents sort of raise you to understand the do’s and don’ts when it came to segregation, or was there any sort of protocol that they had y’all follow or…

	J:	You know, my parents, both of them, I never heard them react in terms of a hateful kind of attitude. Neither my mom or my father—they were very independent people; and at that particular time they kind of accepted the status quo, and they never raised me to hate anybody or dislike anybody, even though we lived in that period of time. My parents didn’t bring me up to—I guess you call it to hate back, that kinda thing.

	T:	And would you say that generally people—Blacks in the community had the same attitude? Or did anyone react to it? How did people sort of deal with the hate?

	J:	I think my parents were pretty much different than most parents. There were a lot of negative attitudes on the part of Black families in a society—. They retaliated with words; with—as we were called certain names like niggers, there were





retaliational terms of crackers, and not trusting them at all, and really having a negative attitude against them. Very prejudice on outside of the color.

	T:	So was there anywhere that was sort of safe or comforting for Blacks to go in Gainesville where you all didn’t have to deal with the negativity? Where did you all gather, find comfort?

	J:	Okay. Fifth Avenue was the business district that we knew that extended from, I would say, Sixth Street all the way to Thirteenth Street. There were viable businesses along Fifth Avenue: there were restaurants; there were barber and beauty salons; there was a little drug store; there was a cleaner’s, which is the building that we’re in; there was a nightclub next door where the playground is; there was a movie theater, the Rose Theater; so this was our area, the Fifth Avenue area. So we kind of—we were okay.

	T:	Right.



	J:	Yeah. I mean we didn’t have to go downtown, we didn’t have to go to their theater; we were happy pretty much coming over and visiting Fifth Avenue.

	T:	And when you were, I guess I can say a child and a young man growing up in Gainesville, what did Fifth Avenue mean to you as a young person?

	J:	It really was kind of like our Manhattan, you know, New York, Manhattan. I mean this is all we had, and, basically, if you were a young Black male or female raised in this area, you were going to know about northwest Gainesville and Fifth Avenue because that’s where everything was, it pretty much was like that.

	T:	So when you—





	J:	Type of things that are obviously over in this ave—Fifth Avenue—this is pretty much all we knew.

	T:	So when you were growing up was Fifth Avenue only used for business purposes, or did other activities take place inside the walls of Fifth Avenue?

	J:	You went along Fifth Avenue, the south was—facing Fifth Avenue was the businesses—but it’s always been a mixed-use residential and business for Fifth Avenue. And it is still that today, except that many of the businesses—many of the landowners have gone, and the houses have been removed.

	T:	So I know you’ve got churches near here; there’s this sort-of business district, as well. Did anyone ever use these spaces as places to meet to discuss things, discuss projects, discuss activism, just as a place to talk…?

	J:	Mom’s Kitchen was in the area across the street. Plumber’s Barber Shop and some of the churches on Fifth Avenue—Mt. Caramel all the way across Sixth Street on the end of—right in front of Ruby’s Restaurant—places like that, and churches. Churches has always been a place for Black people to meet, and to discuss issues, and to develop strategies and stuff like that.

	T:	So were you aware of any of the issues that were discussed and any of the strategies that were discussed?

	J:	I was, as a young man, and what I remember most was the days of Martin Luther King, the Civil Rights Movement, and I know that there were sit-ins. There were coffee shops up on University Avenue whereby Albert Daniels and several other Black men tried to sit in at the bar; and hot coffee was thrown on them. There were incidents of, I guess, light rioting, and stuff like that. And there were also the





churches coming together talking about Civil Rights and supporting Dr. King in his efforts through contributions, activism, and that kind of thing.

	T:	So when and why did you leave Gainesville?



	J:	I came from a family that could not afford to send me to college, and I knew that I—I just knew of a high standard of living and that kinda thing. And so a lot of my friends were able to go off to Black institutions instead of going out of school.

One thing I did know was that I had the desire to compete, and I knew that I wanted to go to college, and that was the level of competition I saw. The only way that I figured that I could go was to join the military, and I joined the military—the Air Force. I did have a invite to join the Army Band cause they came and recruited me from Lincoln, but I chose to go to the Air Force. And I knew once I got there and got out of basic training what I was gonna do. So my first station was in Washington, D.C. There was Howard University, so I immediately found a way for the Air Force to pay my tuition to absolve the school. So went that route at Howard University and completed about two years there. Then I came back to Gainesville and I was able to get the G. I. Bill, and that’s what allowed me to continue my education.

	T:	Wow, awesome. So do you think that you had a different perspective of Gainesville as a student?

	J:	Like I said, I never developed those really, really negative feelings, as I felt that I needed to move ahead to get beyond it. I realized that staying focused on things I couldn’t control, or the past, wouldn’t get me anywhere. So my perspective of Gainesville, even though I knew what it was, I didn’t linger on those kinds of





things. I still had feelings of the injustice, of the students that graduated from high school here couldn’t go to University of Florida, had to go to the more expensive FAMU or Bethune-Cookman, et cetera. I never did like that perspective. And I never liked the perspective of having to use the books that were fifteen and twenty years old that they passed on to us. And the other thing was that there used to be a—you know like they have the FCAT now; the University of Florida used to administer tests to all the eleventh and twelfth graders in this county.

And, for the longest, none of us could just pass that test. So the perspective was internalized that we must be dumb; we must be stupid because we can’t pass it. Well, later on I found out that what the problem was, was that they took the test and they gave it to all the White high schools in the county. But what they did— they prepped them for it. You know, it’s like they do something that’s going to help them. They prepped them, okay? We never heard anything about prepping. So that bothered me from that perspective, the books and making us feel that we were stupid, that kinda thing.

	T:	So what was it like for you being Black at UF? Do you have memories, like what were some triumphs, challenges; just, what was the student experience like?

	J:	I think I was the second person to be in the College of Physical Education and Health at that time. The instructors for the most part tried to make sure we didn’t pass. It was clear that that was a case. It was almost like, I told you so, but they could not flunk me. I really did not give you the fair grade, but they couldn’t justify flunking me because, you know, I was doing my work. The other perspective was—I walked on the University of Florida football team in 1969. I went out for





the team; it was a very serious prejudiced environment. They did not want a Black on the team. And ever since I was a little boy I used to listen at the Gator games. I always said that I was gonna be on that field one day, and that was like eight or nine years old. So when I got the opportunity, I tried out for the team.

The head coach at that time for the players said very little to me. I never even— the head coach never even communicated with me, which was Ray Graves at the time. I developed one friend from the football team, and we’re still friends today. He’s on the school board now, Gunnar Paulson. And so those were the things that hurt me the most was the attitude that they had towards Black players at that time, they offered nothing to us at all. So I remember that, I remember that till this day. That’s why I’m an FSU fan today! [Laughter] I have not been able to get over that, but I don’t show it.

T:  So who did you all turn to for support? Because you know the sort of academic support systems that we have now clearly weren’t around back then, so where did Black students go for support? Who did you talk to?

J:   You talking about myself personally?



T:   Yes. And just the Black community that was there in general.



	J:	Okay. For myself, I guess God blessed me, there was a young PhD from Akron, Ohio my first semester. He was a young guy, name was Harold Lewis.

Somehow, I don’t know what it was, we just hit it. I guess he was familiar with the prejudice and stuff like that. And he was a person that sort of mentored me through all of that, and that was how it worked. As far as the other students, there was Roy Mitchell was here at the time, and that was the—he was the vice





president of, what was it called? Don’t tell me. It was—the Black Student Advisory Board, or something like that. So a lot of students used that, that venue to go and talk to counselors there. There was also the Upward Bound program and the Student Support Services program. Yeah.

	T:	So would you all say that you turned to the community at all for support?



	J:	It was either that, or some mentor, or your parents. Yeah, it wasn’t a whole lot of the help within the system at that time.

	T:	So as young, you know, college students—would you say that you all were motivated to be active in the Civil Rights Movement to make change, or were you all just really focused on getting in and getting out of school?

	J:	Yeah there were a lot of students that were active and they were in the Black Student Union. We had had other students that were active and challenged the system. And then Roy Mitchell, who was, what was his title? He was a venue for Black students to go and get help and that kind of thing. He was a very active, and almost militant, individual in terms of the way that students were treated and the lack of support for students at the university at that time, yeah.

	T:	So these students who were active, where did they organize and what did they do?

	J:	They organized in groups and many of them through the office that I was telling you about. Roy was kind of a person that pointed out the ills of the university in terms of lack of support, not really being sensitive to the needs of Black students. They organized in homes, meeting places that Roy suggested. And them some





of the—they had a few fraternities at that time—not many, but a few of us they got together and talked about things.

	T:	Do you remember which ones, or—?



	J:	I can’t remember, I wanna say they Ques was one.



	T:	Okay. So did Fifth Avenue play any role in this student activism, or were students and the community sort of separate in their efforts toward this?

	J:	They were sort of separate in their efforts. T:	Okay.

	J:	I mean the truth is students were probably more active in the community at that time; however, as I mentioned, people like Al Daniels and a group of sympathetic Whites were very active in terms of pointing out the ills in the community.

And…let’s see…yeah, I would say that Albert Daniels—it’s been a long time ago—and several White people from the university believed in new justice and stuff like that.

	T:	So what was taking place on Fifth Avenue when you were a college student in terms of activism? Was it different from the things that had been taking place when you were a young boy?

	J:	As far as activism was concerned, I think the [inaudible] but not a whole lot in terms of being activists. Talk—you know how people talk?

	T:	Uh-huh, right.



J:   Most of it was people from the university and some older African-Americans like Al Daniels and the Reverend T. J. Wright; he was big. Ellis Henry who was—he worked for the school system—who was instrumental when they closed Lincoln





High School, which was the only Black school. He was active in many marches in terms of recommending to parents that the kids not go to school and that kind of thing, which was a big step back then.

	T:	So can you give me a snapshot of Fifth Avenue when you were a college student? What was it like and how had it changed and things like that?

	J:	It changed, it was really very active—the businesses, they made money. They actually made money, and they were able to support themselves and their families. Business was good, it was thriving. As it’s changed now, there are people that will come on Fifth Avenue, but you see a trend now where, just they took the houses—the different apartments over here—and got more and more people to come over here, but in order for them to stay and spend money, you have to have businesses, you can’t just throw up a hot dog stand; you gotta have something that people want. And back then they had things that people want.

And the other thing was, not only did they want it, but it wasn’t too many other places to go because it was kinda segregated. And now you’ve got the opportunity—you can go anywhere you want, which hurt Black business to some degree.

	T:	So business was sort of booming when you were a student. Did you still patronize Fifth Avenue, or did Black students patronize Fifth Avenue?

	J:	Yeah.



	T:	Yeah?



	J:	Yes. Used to be—Reverend Cato used to have a…it was like a little sundae that he had, you know? You come and get milkshakes and cherry coke and stuff like





that, and everybody really enjoyed going there, you know, having a cherry coke at lunchtime, yeah.

	T:	And what was the place called again? J:	Cato’s.

	T:	So when did you graduate from the University of Florida? I know you received your master’s from there too, so when did you receive your bachelor’s and then your master’s?

	J:	I received a master’s from the university, it was in 1973. And I received my master’s and specialist’s from the university. Yeah.

T:  And I know you did work with federally-funded programs. So how did your work with those programs impact your interactions with the Black community? Or did they not have any bearings on one another, or they did?

	J:	They did because the whole focus behind what we referred to as the Trio Program, Trio because initially there was only three of them. And these programs were designed specifically to help prepare kids for college and insure that we provide the skills for them to graduate. So the Upward Bound program was for students that had potential, and they would come to college on Saturday so we could give them and their parents and that kind of thing. And the parents were very, very active in that, and that program had probably eighty percent Black, twenty percent White. Then there was the…Student Support Service program which worked with college students and a lot of their parents who were Black; it’s more of an equal distribution of the students. It was probably fifty-five percent White, forty-five percent Black, low income, first generation students. You can





imagine the families are, they’re probably the first person that ever entered college and that kinda thing. Then we were other programs and [inaudible] I would go and speak about the Trio Program and stuff like that to the public schools, so we had that kind of rhetoric. Then we’d have the national Trio days throughout the United States and pretty good with various community colleges and stuff like that and schools like that with Trio Program.

	T:	So when did businesses on Fifth start to fold? I know you mentioned that it had something to do with integration, things of that nature, people could go anywhere, but can you pinpoint the change at all?

	J:	Let’s just say, probably twenty-five years ago. Yeah. Twenty-five years ago and people did not have to move away because now you could go to the mall; you could eat in Applebee’s, you could eat at these other places, you know? And you look at the environment, you know, going to Red’ Two-Spot or Mom’s Kitchen, and that resonated with people: “Hey, this is a nice cozy place and nice décor,” and all of that. I mean, a lot of it has to do with the fact that, as a people, we don’t keep our businesses up to standard and all of that. A big part of the exodus in terms of properties not being kept up; some cases they get behind on their taxes. An opportunity for an entrepreneur who, in this case, putting up a business renowned by Whites and because [inaudible 33:00] with the speculation that, hey, [inaudible 33:02]. It didn’t add very much to the area because we had an environment in which young men were doing things to make a fast buck on the street corners, so it probably ran some people away. They bought Mom’s Kitchen so now they’re gonna tear this down and I think the plan is to revive University





housing in this area. The way they operate is they’ll do all of this, then they’ll step back until tensions die down. Time tends to heal everything if you wait long enough. Everybody’s forgotten about it and come back and they will begin to build apartments and it will become very still for them and they might try and purchase a lot of these properties.

	T:	So, what that part of your motivation for purchasing this building?



	J:	Well, we first purchased it thirty years ago, pretty much just to do business. Since we’ve become older, the idea is to stop with the onslaught of people from the outside, accumulating all the property, history, and unite with the businessmen that I’ve already spoken to. I mean, I have—they’ve been very receptive in terms of getting together and talking about business issues that affect the Black community. How to make 5th Avenue viable again. How to make it such that for the young—elementary kids, middle school, who knows nothing about their history—to make this a model, if you will. A tour and narration inputs to explain to kids that even though the buildings aren’t here they could certainly clear it up and put monumental signs so that they can see a little people history of what was and things they ought to be proud of.

	T:	And, in order to accomplish this, what do you think you need—community support or support from businesses, or what has to happen to actually get that started?

	J:	I think you have to form a organization with similar purposes. [Inaudible 36:56] what I call “brown folk-fulfilled businesses.” I think that’s where the emphasis





comes from. The ideas of, you have to sell the idea. And to some degree, sometimes you have to let Black folks feel a little guilty about that kind of thing.

	T:	Well, Dr. Jones, that’s all I have. J:	Is that all? [Laughter]

	T:	Did you want to add anything else? You answered everything for me.



	J:	Oh, okay. Good, good. You know, I just want the unity and roots. It doesn’t take a lot of time to get things done. It kinds just takes the ideas and people willing to do things. I would love to organize a group at the university and sell them the idea of, when you make the Black community better, you make the whole community better. But, look at these kinds of things and since you all are young and active and you still got plenty of energy and stuff like that to help us make these things happen. I’m on the board of the [inaudible 38:38] Development Corporation and some things that we’re looking at too, so we have some thoughts but the university and the Black community just have not, in my opinion—the university just has not fixed any of this stuff. We haven’t asked enough from the university to help the community. There’s about seven major football games where people, 100,000 people, come in the businesses on 13th Street, on University Avenue, and old Sonny’s out here and, where does Black businesses fall in? They probably receive very, very, very little from those kinds of activities. The [inaudible 39:54], which this a national gym, just haven’t taken and we haven’t, frankly I don’t think we’ve pushed. And, so, hopefully with this group, we can begin to look at things like that and see how we can fit in and make these businesses viable to these businesses hire other Black folk. I am a firm believer





that if you don’t help your own, then you can’t really expect them to do any more than we do. That’s just common sense.

	T:	Well, I pose the question to you: I’m very involved in the Black community on campus. I’m in a sorority, Delta Sigma Theta; I’m also a member of the Black Student Union, done things with them. What would you like to see us do like, the NPHC, the Black Student Union, Black organizations. How can I rally people and what would you like to see us do here? We can start by doing things small, but what is it that you need from us?

	J:	I guess a number of things. First of all, in the southeast, in some of the neighborhoods the lawns are unkempt; the streets haven’t been very well maintained. Kind of count in, how many students will rally themselves together. You say, “Hey, we’re going to ask, we’re going to get them to clean up the neighborhoods.” I even thought of a title: Neighbors Helping Neighbors. In my neighborhood, there was a person and their yard was just growing, we took money and bought a lawnmower and I asked them if I could mow their yard. It wasn’t gonna cost, they didn’t have the money to do it but we can help one another. Our thing is to help people get organized—I wish they’d get organized, because if we sustained ourselves. As far as 5th Avenue, I think we’ll get tremendous help if the business union got together. Just for them to know there are organizations on campus. You may have to tell them, or your group or whoever, may have to tell them. What you could do is [inaudible 42:50]. What do you think of this idea? So it would be a cooperative effort, many just don’t know who the soldiers are on the ground.





	T:	What I’m gonna try to do—align sisters and NPHC President—so I’m going to talk to her about doing this Neighbors Helping Neighbors thing if we could get some people together, I’d love to have us come sit down and sort of organize something. As far as other businesses and stuff like that go, I’m going to see whose ear I could get in to maybe get some guys out there, start getting their hair cut out here, get some people out here to start, you know, enjoying your dinner and things like that. I want to help.

	J:	Okay, and I can get the businesses together and just introduce them to your organization and other organizations. You can explain what you do on campus and they might get ideas of, “would you be willing to,” that kind of thing.

	T:	And I’ll talk to people, see who’s willing to do what and I’ll get back at you. But I’d love to have presidents meet with your businessmen and things of that nature.

We are here, we just—not everyone knows how they can help. We need a liaison. I hope to be able to do that.

	J:	We gotta ask, right? We don’t ask.



	T:	That sounds fair. And I’m really, really excited and so excited about this project.



Thank you very much for your time.



	J:	I am too. Thank you. T:	Appreciate it.

	J:	You’re very welcome. [End of interview]





Partially Transcribed by: Joanna Joseph, October 2012





	Audit-edited by:	Joanna Joseph, October, 2012



	Juanita Duque, December 7, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019