AAHP 046B; Mickle; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 046B Evelyn Marie Moore Mickle African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Ryan Morini and Justin Dunnavant on January 13, 2015 1 hour, 17 minutes | 36 pages



Abstract: Evelyn Marie Moore Mickle describes growing up in Live Oak, Florida in the mid-20th century. Building on her previous interview, she elaborates on her parents, her family life and its dynamics, and her memories of the Black community in Live Oak, including her schooling there. Also among the memories are the murder of her cousin, Harry T. Moore, and how her father became NAACP president in Live Oak after his predecessor had been driven out of town by White supremacists. She relates what she was able to understand of her father’s organizing activities when she was still too young to be invited into the conversations. She also describes her mother’s garden, and her mother and father’s parenting approaches and philosophies.





Keywords: [African American History; Suwannee County; Alachua County; Education; National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP)]











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 046B

Interviewee: Evelyn Marie Moore Mickle Interviewer: Ryan Morini and Justin Dunnavant Date: January 13, 2015



	RM:	This is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. It’s January 13, 2015. I am here with my colleague—

	D:	Justin Dunnavant.



	RM:	—and we’re interviewing— EM:	Evelyn Moore Mickle.

	RM:	At her home in Gainesville. Okay. So, usually we’d talk about—well, can you state when you were born?

	EM:	I was born September 18, 1945. RM:	And where were you born?

	EM:	I was born in Wellborn, Florida. W-E-L-L-B-O-R-N. Wellborn, Florida. Out in a little community called Lake Butler.

	RM:	Okay. Were you born at home?



	EM:	I was delivered by a midwife. Her name was Ruth Butler. RM:	You know her name. Do you know much about her?

	EM:	I know a lot about her. Well, she delivered—I am number eleven of fifteen children. And of the fifteen children, she delivered twelve of us. I have one of my cousins who was her daughter-in-law’s son, and one of my sisters who were born the same day. So she was between two houses.

	D:	That’s busy!



	EM:	Matter of fact, we called her cousin Ruth, because they are our cousins. So not only was she the midwife, but she was kind of like the doctor in the community,





or the nurse in the community. She pulled teeth, and whatever was wrong with us, she tried to help out.

	RM:	Wow. Did she know herbal remedies and that kind of thing? EM:	Oh, yeah. Mmhm. My mother did too.

	D:	Do you know where she got her training? Was her mother a midwife as well?



	EM:	I don’t know that cousin Ruth’s mother was a midwife. I just think that it was something that she—maybe Aunt Emily might have influenced her. That’s my father’s aunt. Because Aunt Emily delivered the first three babies.

	RM:	Okay. And so, you said it was the Lake Butler community. What’s the relationship between her last name and the—? Is there any?

	EM:	There probably is, but you might want to interview some of the Butlers. There’s a Blondell Butler who works at the VA who’s a nurse, who could probably give you a little bit more history. I just don’t remember a whole lot. But I think the Butlers were pretty progressive people, and they settled in that area. And so I’d have to tell you that. And Paulette probably could give some information. These are some of her grandchildren, and they still live on the place. Mmhm, they still live on the place. Her husband’s name was Charlie Butler. And there’s two living descendants, and one lives in the house. Charles, Jr. lives in the house. And these are his children that I’m talking about. But we spent plenty of time. They were our playmates, they were our cousins, we went to school together. We shared everything.

	RM:	Well, and so, how big was this community that you were—?





	EM:	Well, when I was growing up—I think the population has kind of started to dwindle, because most people couldn’t get jobs. And so, they left to get jobs, which would be the situation with my older brother and sisters. But there was a school, and there were two churches in the community: a Baptist church, and a Methodist church, and a school. Lake Butler Community School. So, all of my brothers and sisters went to school except for—even Veronica, because during that time, if a child was able to handle the social skills that were required to be in school, the teachers would take them early. And so, that was the situation with my younger sisters, my younger siblings. Including me.

	RM:	So you went to school a little ahead of the curve?



	EM:	Early. Yes, but I still came out on the top. I just was in school.



	RM:	Were the teachers members of the community or did they come in from outside?



	EM:	They came in from—well, one teacher, Tyson—Henry Tyson’s son. Now, what was his first name? I can’t remember what his first name is. Veronica probably could remember. But he is the nephew of Harry T. Moore. Not the nephew. He is the nephew of Harry T. Moore’s mother. His father, Henry Tyson, and Miss Rosa Tyson Moore were brothers and sisters. And they lived in the community. Not Rosa Moore, but Tysons lived in the community. So the Tysons, the Brookins, the Williams, the Butlers, cousin Charlie’s sister, Dunbars, Hosleys. By the time I went to school, there was probably only about fifteen to twenty-five children in school there. But prior to that, they were a lot more.

	RM:	So it had been a larger community at one time?





	EM:	Yes, mmhm. The Zows, the Smiths. So you see, I’m naming an awful lot of families.

	RM:	Mmhm. And was this an entirely Black community there at Lake Butler?



	EM:	No, you had some sprinklings of Whites, but they were kind of on the fringes. Or you know, they had their little space and we had our little space.

	RM:	Okay. Okay, so why did it shrink? Is that just the job situation you were mentioning before?

	EM:	I think that education brought about changes, in that job availabilities for Blacks were just were not available in Suwannee County. So if you wanted a job, you needed to go elsewhere to get a job. For instance, my oldest brother left home probably when he was a teenager. I think he just got tired of—he went on the, what they call the seasons, to do migrant type work. Picking up potatoes and what have you. So some of the families, including my father, they went to Hastings to pick up potatoes, okay? Cut cabbage and pick potatoes. And so, from there, the family that was—the Hosley family—that those families, you know, kind of found workers. So he went with them to New Jersey. So when he went to New Jersey as a teenager—fourteen, fifteen, sixteen years old—he just did not return. My second oldest brother went away to the Service. And he lives there on the place now. He has his own property and his own place, but he takes care of the rest of the property for us. My third brother went to Miami. Now, he followed my oldest sister to Miami. So, families were—as they got grown and were finding that they were not going to able to work and earn a decent living, they migrated elsewhere. I don’t think that’s any different than any other state,





especially Southerners migrated to the North. Or they went where they could find jobs. And so, depending on what state it was, and who led the exodus—and it wasn’t, you know, an exodus where everybody got up and left at one time. It just is, they became graduates of high school, or they got to a point where they were tired of working in the field, and they weren’t going to be treated right. They left.

	RM:	And so, you’ve mentioned education. What was the highest grade that was available in the community? Did they go all the way through high school?

	EM:	You could go through twelfth grade. RM:	Okay. So they had that.

	EM:	Now, you have to define what period you’re talking about. RM:	When you were growing up.

	EM:	When I was growing up, yes. When I was growing up, the elementary through eighth grade, we could go to school where we lived in Lake Butler community. Those that were ninth through twelfth grade went to Live Oak to school or that was the end. But by this time, they were providing transportation for the students to go to Live Oak. So, when I was in fifth grade, all of the community schools were combined, and all the children in the county—Black children—went to either O’Brien from kindergarten through twelfth grade, or to Live Oak Douglas, kindergarten through twelfth grade. The white kids went to Branford or Live Oak. And so, we were zoned to O’Brien. My father was a school bus driver, and we were zoned to O’Brien. But, because we knew that Douglas had a better program than O’Brien for high school students, my parents made provision for my sister Ethel and my sister Eloise. And I believe, at one point—well, no, James started at





the same time I did. But for those two, they made provisions for them to continue to Live Oak.

	RM:	Okay, what was the relationship between the community and Live Oak? Did people actually go there often when you were growing up? Was that were you did your shopping?

	EM:	Oh, yeah. When you had to go to town. You know about going to town, don’t you?

	D:	I know town.



	EM:	Yeah, you had to go to town. So when you go to town, you go to town to take care of business. You were going to grocery shop. You went to pay taxes. You went to go to the courthouse. You went to shop for anything that you needed. Whatever you needed was in town. It was not out there where we were. Now, they could go to Wellborn and get gas and buy grocery, because there were three or four grocery stores, or the general stores, in Wellborn. But if you wanted to take care of business, you had to go to Live Oak. That’s where the utilities, all of that came out of Live Oak. All Live Oak. Okay?

	RM:	Okay. How often do you think your family went into Live Oak?



	EM:	Well, they probably went at least once a week, because my father was also a pastor. And he pastored two churches. Two little country churches out beyond Live Oak, which about was maybe about fifteen miles from where we lived. So we went another additional five miles beyond Live Oak. So, at least once a week we went to Live Oak. So, when he became a bus driver, he was driving to O’Brien. By the time I got to seventh or eighth grade, we did what a lot of parents





did. If they were not satisfied where their children were, they found a way to send them to whatever was available. So, we walked across the field, across the swamp, across the creek, to catch a bus at least two and a half miles away. Five of us. Two brothers that was older than me, Charles C. Well, it started with Ethel. Eloise stayed in Live Oak with Ms. Jones and graduated. We would walk, oh, across the creek—me and my sister Ethel--until she could finish that last year of high school. The children, my brothers and sisters, we would walk and meet her so that she didn’t have to come across the swamp by herself. And there was a family that was sharecropping with the family where the bus came into to pick them up. They would walk her to the fence, and then we would be there to meet her. So, by the time my parents made the decision for us to go Live Oak, and we could go across the creek, there was five of us. There was Charles C., Frazier, Lemue, Calvin, Evelyn, and Joseph. Joseph and Ronnie were still going to O’Brien. They were in elementary school. But those of us who were in middle and high school, we were going across the creek.

	D:	Were you the only family in your area that actually did that, to go to the—?



	EM:	Yes, the other ones in our community continued to go to O’Brien. And that’s where they graduated from, was O’Brien. Now, at some point after I graduated— before I graduated, provisions were made for us to catch a bus on a different direction going west. So, my dad would drive us to the highway, and we would get off and take a bus that had to go a little bit out of the way to come and get us. But the reason why they did that is because we were determined to go to Live Oak. My brother Charles and James would drive for us to get to Live Oak. But if





the car was not available, or the transportation for us was not available because it was just not in service—remember, it’s fifteen of us, now—it was not in service, there were… I’m just amazed at the persistence. I’m amazed at the persistence. We would take my dad’s bus, and get off at Highway 49. Stephan knows what I’m talking about. Somebody would come by and pick us up, and take us to Live Oak to school.

	D:	All five of you and all? [Laughter]



	EM:	However many you want. We filed in the car. You know, didn’t have no seatbelts and all of this and stuff y’all got. And so, that’s how education was gained. When it became an issue for Mr. Floyd to come and pick us up, we just figured out how else we were going to try to get to school. Teachers understood what we were trying to do. We were good students. Teachers helped kids. I mean, that’s what they did. That’s why they were teaching. So eventually, Mr. Floyd was allowed to bring his bus down to pick us up. So, we didn’t have to that for three or four years. It was probably like a year or so that we did that. And then this bus would come down and get us.

	RM:	You just alluded to it, I think, but what was your experience going to school in Live Oak, for all that work? Did you—okay.

	EM:	You can just let that go.



	RM:	Okay, started again. What was the experience like going to school there? Was it a big change for you?

	EM:	Going to Live Oak? RM:	Yeah.





	EM:	Oh, I was happier about going to Live Oak. You have to understand this: that many of the children who went to O’Brien, when they finished high school, if they finished high school, some of them weren’t going to go any further. And so, we wanted to be in an environment where we could go to college. It’s true my parents did not have a college education, but the reason why my father did not continue in school was because his father died, his oldest brother died, and somebody needed to help take care of the family. And at that time, Florida Memorial—it was Florida Normal then—had been established, and that was a college in Live Oak. It’s now Florida Memorial, and they pushed it to Miami.

	D:	Right.



	EM:	Now that’s Evangeline. That’s Harry T. Moore’s daughter calling me to chat. We haven’t talked this year. So that’s her voice that’s on that phone now. So anyway, Live Oak had a football team, they had a band, they had a bask—well, O’Brien had a basketball team, had a baseball team, and I think the girls did play softball. But there were more resources in Live Oak.

	RM:	That makes sense. The other issue I guess in the community was the lack of jobs for people. What did people do? The people living there, what did they do? Were they farmers?

	EM:	They were farmers. They did maid’s work. There was some barbers there. There were a couple of restaurants. There’re some teachers. But it’s a farming community. They plant tobacco, corn, cotton, truck crops like cucumbers, tomatoes, peas, buttergreens. Live Oak, Suwannee County’s a farming community.





	RM:	So did your family have a farm, or keep a garden, or any kind of—?



	EM:	Sun up to sun down. Mmhm. My parents owned—by the time I was in the picture, they owned a hundred and twenty acres of land. So yeah, we were farmers.

Definite farmers. We got up and went to the field, milked the cows, fed the pigs, gathered the eggs. Whatever had to be done before we got ready to go to school. So that mean, before daybreak, we were up. Some of the girls were in the kitchen cooking. The boys were out doing what they had to do. And the little ones were being dressed and taken care of by some of the older ones. So, my mother was a manager. She didn’t work outside the home, but I would have to tell you that she could manage very well. Matter of fact, I always thought she had two eyes in the back of her head, because she could see what we were doing at any given place. So, the girls would cook breakfast. By the time we got home from school, my mother would have dinner ready. So when came in from school, we knew what our job was. What she did? I had nine brothers, and there were six girls. Not all of us were home at the same time. There about thirteen of us home at the same time. But she assigned Eloise and Ethel, they were close in age, so they had their responsibilities together. And I was assigned to my oldest sister.

But then, the boys, more or less, you know, each one of them—I have to tell you this: that to have that many people in one house, you have to know how to handle things or you will have chaos. There was never chaos, because we always had something to do. And when we got a chance to play, we were happy to play.

	RM:	I can imagine.





	EM:	But you know, I’m sure there was some play times, too, while we were working. RM:	What did you do to play? What did you do for fun growing up?

	EM:	For growing up? We visited the Butlers, because there were children our age.



We had to walk about a mile—yeah, it’s about a mile, a mile and a half there. So, we sang. We didn’t have a TV. They were the first ones to get a TV. So we went there to watch TV. And so finally, we did get a television. On the weekends, on Sundays, we could go someplace. A lot of our socialization occurred because my daddy was pastoring two churches, and you know, we had always had families and someone to be with and to play with. We had bicycles. They might not have been new, but the boys knew how to work on everything from the tractors, the mule, the car, the wagon, whatever it was. They learned what to do. The bottom line is, I think, that I believe is truly and sorely missed, is that you can have fun doing almost anything. No matter what it is. You can have fun doing it. So, we had to learn to get along with one another, because if we didn’t get a certain amount of things done, well somebody’s number was going be up on the big board. Yeah, it’s going be up on the big board. So the older ones took responsibility for the younger ones.

	D:	Did you have any time to get involved in any extra school activities?



	EM:	I was in the student government. I was in the drama club. Now, Momma wouldn’t let me be in the the band.

	D:	Hmm, why not? Did she say why?



	EM:	Well, number one, you had to have an instrument, so that was not—but I was definitely not going be a majorette, nor a cheerleader, because that wasn’t—my





daddy was a preacher. We were not going to wear those little skimpy uniforms. [Laughter]

	EM:	But I sang in the glee club. I sang in the high school chorus. Anything that I could do that would require my intellect and my abilities and my skills, I did. Public speaking.

	D:	Do you remember any of the plays or anything that you all performed? EM:	The one that I remember, Paul Laurence Dunbar.

'Lias! 'Lias! Bless de Lawd!



Don' you know de day's erbroad? Ef you don' git up, you scamp, Tet'll be trouble in dis camp.

I dun told you boy once before,



Don’ let me have to tell you that no mo’!



And then, another play, one of the first ones that was in out in the community where we grew up, I remember this: this was the closing. It says:

If I don’t get my money’s worth a jump, I’m going to get my—oh, what is he going to get his money’s worth? Something.

He said, This hand my dollar bill And this hand my dollar bill.

And one and one makes eleven, don’t they? [Laughter]



So, there were opportunities, and our teachers were always looking for ways to help us to develop to our capacity. To our full capacity.

	D:	And most of your teachers, were they educated—?





	EM:	At FAMU, or either Bethune-Cookman. Columbia University, that they were going to get advanced degrees. Very, very proud of who they were and what they were trying to do for their children. And they took great pride in nurturing us. All of the kids had to take home economics if you were a girl, and all the boys had to take agriculture or shop if you were a boy. So there was no way for us to come out of school and not know how to balance a checkbook, or how to make a dress, how to cook a meal, how to manage a home, or what have you. Or if you were going to be a farmer—even if you weren’t going to be a farmer, you knew how to do the basics in plumbing, you knew how to do the basics in shop, and these kind of things. And the teachers made home visits during that time. They came out to see where you lived and what you were struggling with, and they tried to help the boys and the girls to make home life better for their parents. It wasn’t just us coming to school and getting an education. It was more about helping us to become productive, contributing citizens.

	D:	So did the discussion of integration come up at all when you were going to high school?

	EM:	Oh yeah, we passed the white school bus all the time. And they would spit out the window at us, and we would do the same thing for them, and what have you. But now, remember, I graduated in 1963. No high schools in Florida were integrated at that time. Veronica, my sister, integrated the schools in Live Oak.

And she was a middle school student, early middle school. I’m not sure why there wasn’t problems. There certainly, when you cross certain boundaries, there were going to be problems. But I never even thought about going to school over





at Suwanee High. It wasn’t anything I desired to do. I just wanted to be treated the way everybody else is treated. So you really looking out for me to go into how the family got involved. Well, Harry T. Moore was involved. And even though we only saw him and his family when they came to visits the Tysons up on the hill in the white house, we knew about that because the day that he was—that Christmas, they were at the house with Rhonda on Christmas night. It was on their twenty-fifth anniversary. So a couple of days later, we knew that he had been killed. So two of my brothers, one just recently deceased, Charles and James, which is Frazier, were in the field with my dad, and my dad said to them, “They have killed your cousin.” Well, at about the same time—now, I can remember this had to be mid-[19]50s. mid-[19]50s. I was ten, eleven, twelve, maybe thirteen, late-[19]50s. And Reverend Montgomery was the NAACP president. And I’m certain that Harry T. Moore had a hand in organizing the NAACP in Niagara and getting persons to register to vote, because that’s what he did all over the state. And so, after they bombed his house, and we went by and saw where they burned a cross in his front yard. He was the pastor at Springfield, and so once that happened, he and his family moved to Fort Lauderdale. So that left the NAACP without a president. Now I’m almost certain in my mind that my dad and mother were already members of the NAACP. And so, he was selected president. No, Mayhew was elected president. And then my father became president. But he continued to work with—what would I say?

When my dad would go to NAACP meetings, we didn’t always know he was going to NAACP meetings. He would take my mother and whichever children





were with him to another family’s home, and we would stay there until he finished whatever he had to do. They met in a little shanty that had dirt floors, and at one time didn’t even have an electric light. One light. They may have had a flambeau. You know what a flambeau is?

	RM:	It’s like a kerosene thing, right?



	EM:	Yeah, yeah. With a wick. Sometimes they met by that light, way out in the woods.



Now, I have been there. I’ve been there for what they call lodge meetings. But I didn’t got to the NAACP meetings, because they were not going to have the children tell what was going on. So, we didn’t get to go to NAACP meetings. We knew what was going on, because we heard some of the conversations. But children in that day did not talk, and they didn’t dip into grown folks’ conversation. You heard that before?

	RM:	Oh, yeah.



	EM:	So, if you heard something, your number would come up if you repeated it. So we learned not to share what we had heard. I think the thing that they worked on the most was a plan for integration. My father also had a mentor in Columbia County, Reverend Jeffries. I don’t know what Reverend Jefferies name was. But Reverend Jeffries an elected—he was a commissioner for Columbia County, or for the city of Lake City. And he was also a Mason. So, my parents went to Lake City, and a lot times we would go by Reverend Jeffries’ home. Now, did I know what their conversation was? No, they weren’t talking in front of us. But we knew why. We could have thought it was lodge meeting business, but to us it was lodge meeting business. But now that I’m older and grown, I happen know that





they were talking more about how to get things started. Their lodge meeting. I would imagine that he found out about Earl Johnson, who was an attorney over in Jacksonville who helped choreograph the orders, or the whatever they called—what do they call it, when you file for integration? The papers for integration? And that’s why I was telling you, Veronica wrote many of those letters. What you had happening in our family, and many families, is that if the parents were not able to perform up to society’s standards, the children helped them. The children helped them. And you will see this in many of the documentations of many successful people. That they were successful, but they also helped their families to come up. Another thing about my parents: both of parents, in that day—my daddy only went through sixth grade. But my daddy obviously was very smart. And my mother only went to fifth grade, but they had night school out in the community. So, they went to night school after that. Adult night school. And then, when he was driving the school bus, and it was cold and he was not coming back home to work on the farm, he would sit in. One teacher in particular. And she had been the night teacher, and she was from the community over, a distance over. The next organized Black community from us. And so, he would sit in those classes, and she would give him the same work that she gave the rest of her students. He did not detract from them. He just did his work. If he needed a little help, you know, at the end of the day, she would help him. But here again, he has older children and we could help him with what he was doing. And they continued this throughout their life. My mother got her





high school diploma in the 1990s. She went back to school after my father died and got her high school diploma.

	RM:	How old was she then?



	EM:	She was in her eighties when she finished. RM:	That’s impressive.

	EM:	Mmhm. Stephan’s grandmother did the same thing, up in South Carolina. So, what I’m saying to you, this is history, but this is how families helped each other. And this is the determination and the mindset of our ancestors to do better, and to make the best for their children and for their offspring. When my father and the NAACP filed for the lawsuits for the schools in Suwanee County to be integrated, Veronica was the child that was put forth. There were a few others who went.

And I’m not sure how many stayed. I know our brother Joseph did not stay. He went, but he did not stay. So, he had transportation. So, he drove to Lake City to school. I know that the other children in the community, my cousins, they would not go. They would not go. They would not go.

	RM:	If I could ask quickly, can I ask your parents’ names?



	EM:	Yes, my father’s name was Frazier Moore, F-R-A-Z-I-E-R. And my mother’s name was Grethel, G-R-E-T-H-E-L, Whittington Moore.

	RM:	Okay. Were they both from the area you grew up in?



EM: Mmhm. My father was actually born probably right in the house where he grew up, and my mother was born in the Lake Butler community, but later moved to Houston, which is about five miles northwest.

RM:  Okay. So they spent their whole lives growing up in that area, then.





	EM:	Yes.



	RM:	Do you know where the extended family came from? Or their parents, where’d they come from?

	EM:	Now, the Whittingtons and the Stocktons, which my mother was, and the Griffins, came from Columbia County. The next county over. My father’s mother’s family came from Columbia County. They were Greens. Amanda Moore Green.

Amanda Green Moore, his mother was. And then, his father, the Moores came from either Madison, Florida or Macon, Georgia. That’s what he’s always told us. Now, I’ve not done a lot of research. I’ve been trying to encourage some of my other family to do some research, but that’s what my dad always told me.

	RM:	And so, he had gotten a sixth grade education, you said—and that was also—I guess they went to different schools, then. These were community schools, or what?

	EM:	These were community. Momma went to school in Houston. And actually, Harry



T. Moore was one of her teachers. He had gone to Jacksonville to school at the Florida Normal Industrial School. And so, his mom was alone, but she had three sisters in Jacksonville, so it was easy for him to go there to be educated. And Momma often shared with us about the fact that Harry T. Moore was much smarter and much better prepared than the teacher that they had. Because even though they didn’t have books, he would make up the problems and what have you for the kids. Yeah, all the schools were community schools. They had to walk to school, of course. And of course, during that time, Black children would go to school maybe three, four years out of the year at the most. Some years none.





Whereas white children would have gone five, six, seven months out of the year. None of them went as long as we’d go to school now.

	RM:	‘Cause, at least if it’s like other places, you could get called out to need to work in the fields and things like that, right?

	EM:	Absolutely. Absolutely.



	D:	Now, you mentioned that your father was Mason. Were the women in the community organized as well? Euston Star or…?

	EM:	My mother was not. If I would have to categorize my mother, I would say that she was a minister’s wife, a pastor’s wife, and that she was a missionary. And she helped everybody who needed help. So, I’d have to tag my mother as a missionary.

	D:	And were there—did you have any encounters with agriculture extension agents?



	EM:	Yes, mmhm. I don’t know who the agriculture extension agent was in Live Oak because he was White. And so, he wasn’t interested in helping Blacks do farming. But here’s the catcher: the agriculture teachers were interested in helping those boys, and those boys would take what they had learned, and that teacher would go out to their homes. That’s what happened in my family. I remember Mr. Floyd. He was the first agriculture teacher that I can remember. They left Live Oak and went to Orlando, but I can remember many visits that he made out to the house, and helped my older brothers with planting and teaching them, showing them what to do. Mmhm. Now, I know an agricultural extension agent here in Gainesville, in this county, was Black: Mr. Green. But I don’t think the agent was Black in Live Oak. But there was some farmers, the Washingtons





and the Lees, they were big truck farmers. I don’t know if they’re still truck farmers. They lived on the other side in Suwannee County. They were connected with the church that my father pastored up Highway 90. And so, it’s not that many people to get to know. You knew—in the community, in the county, in the area where we were in Live Oak, you knew who was doing well in farming and who wasn’t, because you would see who brought the crops to sell. Yeah.

	D:	Did you have to sell crops? Did you ever have to sell any?



	EM:	Tobacco. Everything I just told you. Corn, whatever. We went to the gristmill with corn. We had to grade the corn. And my uncle’s the one to showed us how to grade the corn. And you’d pick out the best corn for grits and meal, because that’s what you going eat the next week. The other corn, you use it for feed. You used the rest of the corn for feed. And you had to prepare—when it was time to harvest, you had to prepare, because you got to go through the winter. And that included hay.

	RM:	Did you do a lot of canning? Did your mother do a lot of canning?



	EM:	Yes, my mother, we worked all summer long. Whatever was in season, we canned: peas, okra, corn, syrup. Oh Lord, what else? Whatever was out there on the bushes. We didn’t can greens, because you can grow greens all year long.

Either one kind or another. But, tomatoes. Oh, Lord! Jars of tomatoes! [Laughter] One of the rooms of our house was what we in the modern day, what people call a “pantry.” And it would just be from wall to wall, wall to wall, because that was going to last you all year long. So when the peas or the beans or whatever dried





on the vine, you take those, and you know the black-eyed peas that we go up to the line and order?

	D:	Mmhm.



	EM:	Well, we had our own black-eyed peas. You didn’t shell them, you beat them in a burlap bag, and you take them out and wet them. You didn’t throw away anything. And fabric or anything that was left over after you finished sewing— when she made our clothes? She made quilts. My grandmother was a great quilter.

	RM:	So you did know some of your grandparents too?



	EM:	I only met one of my grandparents and that was my father’s mother. Her name was Amanda Green Moore. She died when I was ten.

	RM:	What do you remember about her?



	EM:	I remember that she was a little lady that was feisty. She had four sons, and my father was the second oldest. I remember that she had long hair, and I used to love combing her hair. I remember that she had a big grape arbor.

Scuppernongs, muscadines. And we would get into all kind of trouble if went on there before it was time, but I knew that when the time came, that we were going to get fruit. And she had lots of peach trees, and they were just—oh, the peaches would be just… I loved going down there with my grandmother, because she had pecan trees. We had pecan trees too, but we didn’t have grape arbors like she had, and we didn’t have peaches like she had. We went to stay with her, because by the time, my age, she died when I was ten, and she died at age eighty-three. Medical care was not as prevalent as it is now. And so, she was





already a little old lady, but I remember being in the kitchen with her, and cooking, and eating, and what she would buy when she would go to the store. Sometimes she would take us with her, but she would never take more than one. She would never take more than one. [Laughter] I remember she had a dog named Doll Baby: a little white, it looked like a little spitz. Called him Doll Baby, and Doll Baby went everywhere my grandmother went. Isn’t that amazing what you remember as children?

	RM:	It is, at that. You mentioned that your father pastored two churches. Can I ask the name of the churches?

	EM:	Rockhut. RM:	Rockhut.

	EM:	Rockhut Missionary Baptist Church, which later became Mount Moriah. While he was pastor, it was Rockhut Baptist Church. Then there was Rocky Sink Baptist Church. They were in close proximity to one another, but because transportation might have been an issue. A little bit far for them to drive.

	RM:	And he—



	EM:	Those are not the only churches that he pastored, but those are the ones that I can remember that he pastored when I was growing up.

	RM:	So he had been at others as well?



	EM:	I kind of think that was the beginning of his—he started to preach in the [19]40s. So no, those were the churches that he was pastoring. He was a missionary for the association, so we went a lot of different places, because the missionary went to churches where they didn’t have a pastor.





	RM:	Do you know what made him start pastoring? How that came about?



	EM:	No, I don’t know how that came about, because I wasn’t born. But I just remember that my momma said that she prayed to the Lord and ask Him to change him or kill him, because she wasn’t going be married to a drunkard, and she wasn’t going to have anybody wasting her children’ food all over the field on their way home. [Laughter] My momma would pray some tough prayers! I wouldn’t want to fool with her.

	RM:	Wouldn’t guess so.



	EM:	But no, he was a deacon before he became a pastor. I’m sure his pastor, Reverend Jones, Norman Jones, who lived in Springhill—and he married my cousin, our cousin. He was a pastor long time out where we lived, at the church, Mount Olive Baptist Church. And he married my cousin after his first wife died. And it was actually his wife who named me. And they’re a big family that grew up out in Springville. Springville, which is right out of Columbia County. So I am sure that he had a great influence on him.

	RM:	Did he found the churches you mentioned, or did he—had they been there?



	EM:	The Reverend Jones? I don’t think that Reverend Jones founded the church. You mean the churches that my daddy pastored?

	RM:	Yeah, your father?



	EM:	Oh no, he didn’t found those churches. RM:	Okay, those were older churches.

	EM:	Those were older churches, established churches. RM:	Do you know how old they were?





	EM:	No, I was a little girl. I wasn’t interested in that. I just wanted to go. [Laughter] Yeah.

	RM:	I understand.



	EM:	Rocky Sink is no more. That community is completely dissolved. They moved to Live Oak, and so did Rockhut. They moved into town. They moved into town.

And I think the members from Rocky Sink moved to Sweet Hope, which is still there. And the ones from Rocky Sink, they changed the name and built another church—another building. But they are very, very supportive and loving of us as a family, even to this day. If something happens in our family, they right there for us. They have always taken good care of us.

	RM:	That’s, so he—so from my understanding, he was farming. He was also pastoring. And then he—

	EM:	And he was a school bus driver. RM:	And a school bus driver.

	EM:	All at the same time.



	RM:	And he was in the Masons. EM:	Yes.

	RM:	And he was— EM:	NAACP president.

	RM:	That’s a lot! Was there more to that? That already sounds like too much. [Laughter]

	EM:	I think that’s enough. And well, you know, he was kind of the person in our community, out there where we lived, because sometimes, some of those





families didn’t have. So when they would plant, they planted enough for— And I used to differ from my mom: why did we have to pick peas, and pick greens, and pick up the sweet potatoes, and pick up pecans, and all this, and then you go and give them to other folks, who got somebody as strong and able as I am that can come and help? Well, it didn’t go too well with my momma! [Laughter] She say you—

	D:	Pray for you.



	EM:	No, she didn’t pray for me. She had a long switch, and if it wasn’t as suitable, she would send you to the tree and you could get your own switch. If you didn’t bring back what she wanted, she’d send you back and she’d double it. Mmhm. There was no such thing as no child abuse.

	RM:	I don’t suppose so.



	EM:	No, I don’t think so. Now, she believed in discipline. She believed in discipline. But at the same time, she had a lot of fun with her children, because she could outwork us, outrun us. And she played ball with her sons. So, it wasn’t an abusive issue. You just did what she asked you to do, and you’d be all right. But if you didn’t do what she asked you to do, and she had to keep talking to you, it was, she said, “The next time I have to say this, you’re not going to—if you don’t hear me, you’re going to feel me.” [Laughter]

	RM:	At least she was fair.



	EM:	She was fair. She warned you. She wasn’t going keep warning you. She didn’t have time. Too much to get done.

	RM:	So was she the disciplinarian in the family?





	EM:	She definitely was the disciplinarian. But here’s the clicker: you went to my dad. My father would say, “What did your momma say?” If you went to your momma, she would say, “I have to talk with your dad, and we’ll make a decision.” If you went back to my daddy again, he would say, “What did your momma say?” So you know, that’s how it was. If there was a decision that had to be made and there was some kind of discrepancy—you’d know if there was a discrepancy, because they would get in the truck and go down the road. And they were going to talk. And you were not about to come down there asking them about anything while they were down the road in the truck, because that was private time, and they were going to make a decision. And whatever decision they made, they came out together as one. Didn’t matter who agreed and who disagreed. We would never know who agreed or disagreed. We may figure it out, or think we’ve figured it out, but it was not going come from them. And my daddy was going to be the one to announce it. “Your mother and I have decided that such and such, and such and such.”

	D:	Were there any particular incidences that you remember specifically? Any decisions that they made?

	EM:	[Laughter] Oh, I wanted to go to the prom, and I knew that there had been problems with my sisters going to the prom—my oldest sister. But I wanted to go to the prom. And so, yes. They had a long, long talk about it. Remember though, all we had gone through to get to go to school in Live Oak. And one of the things that was the highlight of a eleventh and the twelfth grader, going to the prom— got me going to school was to be able to go to the prom. So they made a





decision for me to go to the prom. But now, I didn’t go with no boy. I was taken by one of the teachers. My senior year I figured out how to get my date. My sister was teaching there, so she agreed that she and her husband would be chaperones, and they allowed me to have a date. [Laughter] And you know what? I really think my mother knew. My daddy probably knew too. But I think, for certain, that my mother knew. You don’t fool too many moms. You might be able to pull the wool over your daddy’s eyes, but you don’t fool too many moms.

	RM:	Especially not your mom, from the sounds of it!



	EM:	Not my mom. I don’t know how she knew about stuff before we could even get home—and we did not have a telephone. That is one thing I’ll share with you about our struggle living out in the country: during the time we were growing up, the phones were party lines. And so, you could have up to eight people on the party line. But we couldn’t even get a party line, because my daddy was NAACP president. It wasn’t until my husband graduated from law school—we were in Washington, in 1970—that he wrote a letter to the telephone company on government stationery, because he worked for the Office of Economic Opportunity, that the telephone company came out and put a phone there. They came out the next day as soon as they got that letter. Now everybody in the community had a phone except us. They had applied year after year after year, time and time and time again, but we could not get a telephone. They did not want my daddy to have a telephone. Now, I’m just amazed—they did burn one cross in the yard. I was not at home. Veronica was still at home. But you know, the slow trucks that we drove and the cars that we drove, they could have wiped





us out at any time. But I just didn’t find that happening in Live Oak. Now, the thing that they would lynch you for in Live Oak was if they thought that one of our boys wanted one of their girls. And so, you did find that happening. In that Harry

T. Moore documentary, you’ll see that. You’ll see that.



	RM:	Do you remember—I mean, did your parents have to consciously explain avoiding that kind of thing or was that something everybody just understood?

	EM:	Oh, that was a conversation at our house. You were going over there to So-and- so’s to work. That’s all you were supposed to be over there doing. Do not be talking to Hettie Anne and all them other girls, because momma already knew which ones were a little bit on the assertive side. I would say she would say “fresh” side. She just told you just like it was. And she said, “They don’t mean you any good. And don’t”—you know. So, my dad would not allow my mother to work. The girls could go, and the boys could go, but most times he was going to be there too. He said he didn’t want to have to die for anything that might have been misconstrued or misinterpreted about something that they would say to my mother. He was just not going to have that. He knew that would be something that would trigger his temper and he was not going to have that. And so, they counseled. We knew our place, if you want to say that. We knew our place. We might’ve had a few words that we had to say to somebody, but we were supposed to come home and tell them if we were having a problem. So there was certain families that we just didn’t work for unless my dad could go with us. If it was a family that may have a problem with how they were going to treat these





Black boys and girls of his, we just didn’t work there. And we always had plenty of places to go and work.

	RM:	What did they pay? Do you remember?



	EM:	I remember when I first started working, I might’ve made two dollars and fifty cent a day. I was probably about ten or eleven. By the time I finished high school—I even worked in tobacco after my first year of college. I think I was paid six or seven dollars a day. Now that was [19]63, [19]64, [19]65; I might’ve been making five, six, or seven dollars a day, stringing tobacco. But I knew it was a means to an end. I wasn’t planning to be out there forever.

	RM:	What’d the money go toward? Did that just go to the household or did that go—?



	EM:	Well, when we were in school, they would allow us to keep half of it, and half of it went to the household.

	RM:	Okay. Did you have a favorite crop you liked to work with or was it just kind of the same thing to you?

	EM:	I didn’t like to work with none of it. It was a way of life, I wasn’t unhappy. I just knew that was not what I was going continue to do the rest of my life. Tobacco working was hard work. But here again, I say this: whatever we had to do, we made fun. We had fun doing it. Because, one, we were with our cousins and others. That was our social activity. We would share what we had to eat. All these people that’s unhappy now, I don’t get it. I just don’t get it. We had very little in terms of what kids have now, what families have now. And they just so unhappy. People just so unhappy! I’m not unhappy, I wasn’t unhappy. What would made me unhappy was if I didn’t get to do what I wanted to do and I had a





really strong opinion about it. Now, that would make me unhappy, especially if I done worked hard. But, we just made—I mean, it was what it was. And so, we made the best of the situation and we had fun doing it. We had a lot of fun.

	RM:	To backtrack a bit, you mentioned that they burned a cross in your yard. Is that correct?

	EM:	You have to ask Veronica about that. RM:	Okay.

	EM:	But we were told about that. We were in Washington at the time. RM:	So, that was in the [19]60s then?

	EM:	No, that was early [19]70s.



	RM:	Early [19]70s. Oh okay. Even later then I thought. Growing up, were you aware of the Klan and that kind of thing being in Live Oak or was that…?

	EM:	Were we aware of the Klan? Did I ever get to see the Klan? We knew about the Klan. Yes, we knew about the Klan. I can’t tell you that we didn’t know about the Klan. That would a lie if I would say that. We knew about the Klan. Did I ever really see the Klan dress up? No. We witnessed enough in person without the suits on. I am going to share this with you, and I think I shared this with the other individual that we interviewed, and then I think we probably are going to have to kind of bring this to a close in the next ten minutes. I think I was going into my senior year, and I was with my cousins, the Butler girls. And of the Butler girls, one is along with me and there are two or three. There were more girls in that family, and more boys in my family. So, the girls always went with my momma and me. I went with them. So, this particular Saturday, we had finished working





all week long in tobacco. So we had a little bit of money, and we went shopping. I don’t know where my daddy was. He probably was—I don’t know where he was, but they were in town. Momma was in town. They were all doing what they had to do, and they allowed us to go walk in the streets. Now, that’s what kids did back in the day. They didn’t go to mall. We walked the streets. And so, we wanted to go to the movie, but we didn’t dare go to movie, because my parents didn’t allow us to go to the movie. And they certainly didn’t want us going upstairs to the movie while the other kids were downstairs. So we went down there. We looked around. Now my cousins could go to the movie, but we weren’t. So they didn’t do anything that I was not going to do. So wanted some ice cream, so we went to the sundry at the drugstore on the corner. I was the leader of the group. We went in the front door when we were supposed to go in the side door, and we ordered ice cream cones. So the little waitress said to me, “We don’t serve you down here.” And I said, “We would like ice cream cones the same way you just gave this person an ice cream cone, and we want it right here, because our money is green just like theirs.” She looked at me. She looked at the girls with me, and she looked around to see who was looking. So she went and talked to somebody, and they obviously told her that we were no threat, give us the ice cream. But you know, our number could have been on the big board that day. Did I tell my parents about that? No, I didn’t tell them about it. I’m not sure whether those children told their parents about it or not. But that’s enough to let you know that I knew that my daddy was the NAACP president. He might not have gone around talking about it. There was not a whole lot of discussion about what was going on





with the NAACP. Did I know who Earl Johnson was? Yes, I had seen Earl Johnson, but the way that they communicated was by letter, or my dad would send him a letter and would tell him that he was going to call him at a certain time, and he would go to payphone and call him. He did not call him from a party line phone. He went to a payphone And they would meet in Lake City most times. And that’s why I said Reverend Jeffries, I have a feeling, had something to do with mentoring him. I really do believe that. Because he was the visible figure in Columbia County for the NAACP.

	RM:	You said they met in a shanty. Was that in Lake City? EM:	No.

	RM:	Or that was in Live Oak?



	EM:	That’s in Live Oak. Right outside of Live Oak, in the Sugarhill Community. RM:	Is it still standing?

	EM:	I don’t know! [Laughter] I don’t know. I don’t know if I could find it if I went that direction. I know if I went down Sugarhill Road, I could kind of say it’s about right about here, over there near the—what was those people’s name—the Henrys.

The Henrys.



D:  I have one final question, too. You mentioned that voter registration was big, as well as the integration came up. Do you know any other programs or incidences that the NAACP was working on when your father was president?

	EM:	Elected officials. Voters’ rights. My mom and dad, during the time of his being the NAACP president, and even before that, they would get the ballots, and we would see cars coming to our house. And they were coming for my parents to





help them with who to vote for, because they didn’t know. But they would come and find out who to vote for, or how to vote. Or strategies for voting and getting the voters out. And they were instrumental in the first Blacks being elected to the commission. And others who were elected. So, you would see some of the people wanting their support. Mmhm. Yeah. Voter registration and voter drives. Absolutely.

	RM:	So, your parents voted as early as you can remember?



	EM:	When do I remember my momma and poppa voting? Seem like to me I can remember my grandmother going to the polls. And I remember where they voted in Wellborn. Mmhm, I can remember that. So I would have to say [19]45, [19]55 as early as the [19]50s, that, yeah, they were voting.

	RM:	Was that widespread in the community, or was that later after your father worked on it?

	EM:	Was it widespread? I can’t say—I’d have to say Harry T. Moore working with each county, somebody who was key in each county, to get people registered to vote, and then, yeah. You take up the mantle. You take it where you find it, and you continue with it.

	D:	Did your father’s actions change after Harry T. Moore was killed?



	EM:	He did not become the NAACP president until after that, and after Reverend Montgomery’s house was—I think they threw what you call a Molotov cocktail, and then they burned the cross. And so, they left Live Oak. They were not originally from Live Oak anyway. He came there to pastor. And so, that was too much of a threat for him. So he left. I think the truth of the matter is, the





Underground Railroad has provided strategies for us and freedom. So you don’t put your business out there if you don’t want it known. And you got to figure out how to get things done without a lot of publicity.

RM:  Well, I know you have to go. I do have one final question if you don’t mind. So you didn’t have a phone back in the time. How did you get the news? How did you get news? Did your parents subscribe to—?

	EM:	We subscribed to the Pittsburgh Courier. Do you know about the Pittsburgh Courier? We subscribed to Ebony. And every now and then we got a Jet. But Ebony and Pittsburgh Courier was next to the Bible. If we couldn’t figure out how to pay for nothing else, we were going to get the Pittsburgh Courier and the Ebony and that was it.

	D:	Would you all read it collectively, or just—?



	EM:	No, not collectively. Yeah. And then, of course, you listened to the radio. If something was important, if one of those NAACP members knew that something was important, they may call the Tysons, and the Tysons may come and tell us to give So-and-so a call. Or when you go to town, So-and-so want to see you.

But that was not generally what happened. Remember, my daddy was a school bus driver. So when he drove the bus, he could get information, because he didn’t always drive to O’Brien. By the time he was really in the thick of the NAACP work, he would drive into Live Oak. Even if it was information he needed when it was in O’Brien, there were people coming back and forth from Live Oak to O’Brien teaching every day. And there was school bus drivers who knew what my daddy was doing, who could be trusted to bring a message. I don’t know who





they were, but I’m just telling you that the messages came. And then, every now and then, we would see a car that would come out to the house, and my daddy would have a conversation with that person. And we knew that they were NAACP members, or we knew they came by there was something that was mighty important, because you didn’t drive fifteen miles for nothing that wasn’t important. My mother’s motto was “Where there’s a will, there’s a way.” Now, that’s what my momma taught us. Don’t see the obstacles; see the possibilities.

	RM:	Although I guess this is kind of contradictory to what you just said, but I was wondering if it was difficult to get the Pittsburgh Courier into town. Did people have to find ways?

	EM:	No, they mailed it to you. You subscribed to the Pittsburgh Courier, it come through the mail.

	RM:	So, the post office didn’t interfere or anything.



	EM:	Oh, no. People are basically respectful in little small communities. That’s your mail. You don’t bother with the mail. I’m trying to remember if the Pittsburgh Courier came wrapped. I don’t remember whether it had a sleeve. It probably did have a sleeve on it.

	RM:	Okay.



	EM:	And Ebony just came like Ebony. Ebony always come like Ebony. Yeah. RM:	I think we probably had better—.

	EM:	Yeah, Ebony has always come like Ebony. It might’ve had a sleeve on it. But I think basically, that’s all they had. If they wanted to tamper with the mail, that’s a federal crime. Who want to bring the attention to themselves? Those people





need their jobs. There’s not that many jobs in Live Oak and in Wellborn, you know? [Laughter]

RM:  That’s a good point. I guess we’d better bring this to a close at this point. Thank you very much for joining us. I’ll look forward to speaking with you again if that’s all right.

EM: That’s fine. RM:  Okay.

	EM:	That’s fine. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Derick Gomez, January 21, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, January 18, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019