AAHP 403; Lake; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 403 Luresa Lake

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Katie Gresham on March 11, 2016 30 minutes | 16 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 403

Interviewee: Luresa Lake Interviewer: Katie Gresham Date: March 11, 2016



G:  Okay, so I’m Katie Gresham, and I’m here with Ms. Luresa Lake. It is March 11, 2016, and we are at the Ocala Public Library. So, Ms. Lake, we’re going to start with when and where were you born?

L:  I was born in Ocala, Florida on November 9, 1929. I am now eighty-six years young, not old. [Laughter]

G:   What did your parents do?



	L:	My father was a farmer. My mother was a seamstress, and she used to play the piano for the Shady Grove Baptist Church, which I was a member of all of my life more or less.

	G:	Where did you go to school?



	L:	Evergreen Elementary School, and it later became elementary, junior, and senior school, because it was in the country of Shady Grove. That was the community that I lived in, and after then we went to Howard High School. And I, being the only girl in the family, also went to New York and went to school in New York for a number of years, a couple of years. And I’m trying to think of what my life was all about—

	R:	Jacksonville, you went to school.



	L:	Yes, I did. That’s true, even in Jacksonville. And I can’t remember the school name at this time, but I went there. Because me being an only girl in my family, all of my aunts wanted me to stay with them. And many times I stayed with them, and cared for a baby or something like that. And I was a delight to my whole family. All of my family thought that I was something very special.





	G:	Well I’m sure you are. You are something special. L:	Oh, why, thank you.

	G:	So when did you first visit Paradise Park? Or had you been to the springs before Paradise Park was open?

	L:	Well, see, Paradise Park was opened purposely for Black people. And in as much as one side was used for White people. You know there was a segregation problem years ago when I was a younger girl, and that segregation is the reason why Paradise Park opened up, because it was purposely put there for Black people only. And the White people were on one side of Silver Spring, and Black people were on another side of Silver Spring, and it’s all down the river. The river belongs to everyone. But during years in the time of my life there was a separation always, and they even wanted to separate the waters as though the water would turn one white, or black, whichever the case may be. But that was one of the things that we learned to live with, and accept, and appreciate it because Paradise Parks was fixed up very nice, and it was a lovely scenery, and all of that was available to Black people. And people from everywhere in the United State visited, and the Blacks were still separated on their side and the Whites on the other side. Right down the river you might say of Silver Springs waters.

	G:	So how did you become the model for the Paradise Park brochures?



	L:	Well, years ago people sort of picked attractive Black women and made them stand out. And this was always done by people with money. People with money could afford to ask for special things. I was a special girl simply because I was an





attractive Black girl. And for that reason they asked for pictures for Paradise Park, and in as much as the people that were over Paradise Park knew the community of people, they asked me to be a model. Well, when they asked, I thought that was an honor, and I still do, because at the time there were many beautiful Black women, but for some reason I was picked to be one of those women. And I think it was more or less because of my size, because you have to be sort of like, kind of like came with not too much meat on you when you’re a model, and that’s what happened with me. And all down through the years that has lingered with me, and people still kind of like recognize me as being Miss Paradise Park. And I just adore it, because I suck in everything that they say I do, for me.

	G:	Was that before or after you went to New York? After?



	L:	That was after I went to New York. Let’s see, years ago I went to New York and even went to the schools up there. And that too gave me that natural accent of New Yorkers, and I could speak well, and, of course, my people sort of like—my mother was a seamstress, and in as much as she was a seamstress she made my clothes, and I was one of the best dressed girls in Ocala, because my mother could walk down the street, see an outfit on someone else, and go home and make it for me. And when I went to school and everyone turned their head [Laughter].

	G:	That’s great. So what was the role of Paradise Park within the community?



Especially the Black community?





	L:	Oh, it was one of the best things that could happen, because we had two places, more or less, in Ocala that we could go swimming. And that was down in East Lake, which was a great big pond of water, and Silver Springs. Well, when they separated us there was no problem with us getting in because they gave us a decent place, and decent roads, and even candy—people where we can buy candies, and all of that type of stuff. They made it perfect for us. It was not a cheap given place. It was a very nice place for Black people to attend. And we did attend it, and people from everywhere, over the states, would come to that very spot. And if you were Black you knew you would separate, and you accepted that. If you were White you went to the White side. And we never mixed or had problems with that. We accepted what we were given in those days and time with our argument of voices.

	G:	So there was never any violence, or any issues with the separation?



	L:	No, none at all. In fact of the matter, we actually felt as though we were blessed people.

	G:	There wasn’t very many places for African Americans to visit as tourist destinations.

L:  That’s right. That’s very true. Very true. And Silver Springs was always such an ideal place, because the waters were so good. Water was nice and comfortable to be in. Now down, further down in Florida East Lake the waters would be cold in the cold weather, and that’s the way it was. But Silver Springs was always an ideal place for swimming.

R:   It still is.





	G:	It still is, yeah.



	L:	It still is. Only now you see an upgrade, you can go anywhere you want to.



	G:	When that happened, how did you feel? Were you sad to lose Paradise Park, or was it exciting to be able to go to the—

	L:	We were as happy as a lark. You know, years ago—



	R:	When it closed, how did you all feel about it being closed? L:	What, the—

	R:	Paradise Park.



	L:	Paradise Park? Well, we felt like we was cheated, because why close it when nobody’s arguing about it in the first place. Why close it? It’s a place that anybody could have gone. Now, with it being integrated, White or Black could go. So why close it up? No need for it.

	G:	What—oh, sorry. L:	Go ahead.

	G:	I was just going to ask you what was your fondest memory from Paradise Park? L:	Taking that picture on that tree.

	G:	Taking the picture on the tree. It’s a beautiful picture. L:	It is, yes. I thought I was in heaven.

	G:	Did Bruce Mozert take that picture?



	L:	I can’t remember who it was, really. When I knew anything I was on this picture, and being sent all over the world, and I’m serious. And there was a postcard from that picture. A match of postcard which you—I don’t know whether you paid a penny, or years back I can’t remember, but well whether you had to pay five





cents for the postcard. But the postcards themselves went all over the world. Me being the person on the postcard, can you imagine what it made me feel like?

And the recognition that I got, because after that postcard people, “oh, there goes Luresa Lake! There goes Luresa Lake." And I really, you can’t [Laughter]. My head got bigger than the football [Laughter].

	R:	There was a Black man that took her, she had told me years ago, that had—it was a Black photographer here in Ocala, Marion County that took the picture.

	G:	Okay.



	R:	I guess he had worked for Silver Springs, but she doesn’t remember the name of the guy who took.

	L:	Some of the guys that took the pictures of some of those men, were people that were workers at Silver Springs. And they were drivers of Silver Springs. But all of the drivers at Silver Spring were Black men. That was an unusual. But they were drivers and they were Black men. And I thought that was quite an honor too.

	R:	There were Black men on both sides? L:	All sides.

	R:	On the White and the Black sides?



	L:	Absolutely, and they were the ones that drove those boats up and down the river for people to see. And finally they got so that every color could get on the boat, and ride up and down the river to see the different parts of Silver Spring.

	R:	Well, if they sold enough tickets on the Black side, then they would send a boat over to Paradise Park to pick up the Blacks to take them on the glass-bottom





boat. But they had to have enough tickets sold before they would send a boat over. That’s the way that worked.

	G:	So they were the same boats, and you got to see all the same things when you went on?

	L:	Oh yes. Oh yes they did, because it was Silver Spring, the whole thing; they would let you see it. And the glass-bottom boats, you would look down and see all the fish of all different types. Silver Spring is still an ideal place to visit, and it is scenic—everybody and the things that you see is exciting, right on. It hasn’t changed, and that’s God given.

	G:	It’s beautiful. I was just there. Last semester I went and visited. I hadn’t been in a very long time.

	L:	Alright.



	G:	Yes.



	L:	And were you on the glass-bottom boat? G:	I was.

	L:	Okay, alright.



	G:	I think Roosevelt Faison was my boat driver. L:	And he was Black, right?

	G:	Yeah, he was Black. L:	That’s true.

	G:	And I think he’s been there for sixty years.



	L:	So many years, that’s true. See, and that’s the most—





	R:	See, now that’s somebody that you can really talk to about the history, because he would know so much.

	L:	Yes, indeed. That’s history, but it’s so amazing that things have changed so intensely as far as White and Black. The White and Black nowadays sit together, live together, marry each other now, and that’s amazing, because years ago your head might have been blown off. Black man marrying a White woman? You had to be mighty careful.

	G:	Was there issues in Ocala as a whole because of races?



	L:	All over the south, and years ago there was issues about Black men marrying White women. And in as much as it was years ago there is a little bit of it every now and then yet.

	G:	Wow. What was I going to ask? So did having Paradise Park make you feel special?

	L:	Yes. I didn’t just feel special about Paradise Park, I was an only sister of my three brothers.

	G:	Oh, so you were always special.



	L:	Yes. And not only that, but I had several aunts. One lived in New York City. One lived in Jacksonville, and others in Ocala, and places like that. And each of those aunts that I had wanted me to come and spend some time in their houses, and I did. My mother would allow me. We lived, my mother, my father and I, we lived on a farm in Shady Grove Woods, you might say. And when my aunts wanted me to come and live with them, nine times out of ten it was because they had a baby and I was available to help them take care of that baby. And I did that. I





took care of my little cousins, and things like that. I was a bit older at the time, and as I grew older they would come to get me to help them with their children. And I did it. Even though my life has been quite exciting, all of my life, and not only the fact that I went to New York. I stayed with my aunt up there, went to Jacksonville, stayed with her, and oh man, the places.

	R:	But, as far as the community concerned about racism in Ocala, was it a lot of racism here, or was it times where the communities were at odds or anything like that?

	L:	It seemed to me in the, from around my teen years more or less I would say, racism wasn’t really such a major issue in the long run. It seems as though people accepted you for different reasons, whatever they were. And it was a let up on things like racists. I was picked as a radio announcer and when I became an announcer over radio I played music on Sunday afternoon, and my name got put out, "Luresa Lake, listen to her music on Sunday afternoon." And all of the music of different nationalities and different bands and whatnot, I mixed it and played it. And that by itself made me more, I guess, noticeable or known by more or less White and Black. And when White people learn that you have any kind of talent they will push you forward, and I actually had a great voice for running my mouth. It was the joy of my life. I would talk on TV and I said, "And listen to Luresa Lake; she’s coming to you with music from [mumbled words].” I mean I could go on and on and on, and I practiced it at home. And I made myself pretty noticeable, and see, people all over Ocala and on up the road would hear me. “And tune in to Luresa, she plays Lionel Hampton’ music.” These were big name





brands, and I had the right. And people from all over Ocala, if they had a good record they saw to it that I got that record to play on the Sunday afternoon listening pleasure. And I used to come home, “This is Luresa Lake for your listening pleasure. Now, I would love for you to stay with me throughout the afternoon and blah blah blah.” [Laughter] And I would just talk, and it was most interesting. I got to be very real known in Ocala and over Ocala and Florida, more or less.

	G:	How did you end up on the radio? L:	Through White people.

	G:	Oh, they recognized your talents?



	L:	Uh-huh. And they were the ones with the stations. G:	Oh, so you were playing on a White radio station? L:	Yes, ma’am. I was over Ocala, I don’t remember. R:	WZ?

	L:	MOP for one thing; that was a Black station.



	R:	It wasn’t MOP. It was WZ something, I forget now exactly what she told me years ago. But it wasn’t WMOP. It was another station that she got the job with. But it wasn’t WMOP.

	L:	Your name seem to go a long ways before you were here, you know? And that’s what happened with me. I started out sort of—

	R:	Well, during that time I think basically they needed to have something for the Black community, and that’s when they started playing the—they set aside a station that would play the Black music, because the Black music was so popular





in not only Black culture, but also White and all kind of cultures. So they wanted to give an opportunity for people to hear it, and she just got lucky to be asked to try out for it. She went and got a broadcasting license, and got the job.

	G:	Wow, sounds like you had a great job. L:	I did.

	G:	What kind of events went on at Paradise Park while it was open? L:	Oh nothing, so ordinary, just swimming.

	R:	Church. Baptisms.



	L:	Oh yeah, they did. There were baptized in the waters there. R:	They had Easter egg hunts out there for churches.

	L:	Yeah, that’s true. It was most interesting, and people from everywhere came there, because it was set aside for Black people. It’s like this, if you enjoy wherever you are, you make the best of it. We were given an area to enjoy at Silver Springs, and it didn’t bother us, because we were used to being separated, Black from White. And we felt like it was an honor to have the area, even though Silver Springs itself should be for everyone. It’s a matter of accepting whatever is inevitable for people at the time.

	R:	Even when you all were separated and you all were accepting of it, you still did not like the fact that you were separated, right?

	L:	Well, we liked it, because it was during the time. See, it was during that time when to have an area right there, it was a great thing to us. Yeah, that’s the way it was.

	R:	So you all were conditioned after a certain amount of time to be separated?





	L:	No, that was the way of life. And during my time it was the way of life. Black people do not integrate with White people. And it’s just beginning to lift in your day and time, and this is what it’s all about. And a Black man used to be hung if he married into problems with a White woman. There was times I can remember back in the day when it has been said that different Black men were hung up by trees for courting a White woman. And that’s the reason why the separation didn’t really bother us.

	G:	Because you felt like it was for you, like your own safety kind of? L	Yes, it was a part of what life was all about.

	G:	So there was a pretty strong, like separate Black community here in Ocala, right?



What was that like?



	L:	No, not just in Ocala, baby. The United States of America had areas especially for White people, and had areas especially for Black people. And if you happened to be caught, a Black man with a White woman, in a corner somewhere where you’re having no business, White men would take you and hang you up to a tree, and being in public places where everybody can see you hanging there. That was the way life has been in my day and time. And when it begun to lift, all that kind of thing, then things have changed to such a tremendous amount, tell that really you say, "thank you God." That’s all you can say; "thank you God." But that’s what segregation was all about.

	G:	Is there anything else you want to add, or something that you maybe haven’t told other people that you could tell me?

	L:	Oh, let me see what is there—





	R:	Regarding Paradise Park?



	G:	Anything, Paradise Park, your exciting life.



	L:	Oh, my exciting life is just an ordinary life, I think, because right now I’m eighty- six years old, and the fact that I have good health and strength and a pretty good mind. I don’t remember a lot of stuff, but I think with me being as healthy as I am, that is great. And the fact that I was a mother of, how many children? [Laughter]

	R:	Nine.



	L:	And still alive.



	G:	You said nine children? L:	Yes.

	G:	How many girls and how many boys?



	L:	One girl—well, it was two girls but one of them children died; one of the girls. And this is the only girl that is living, and I have now, how many boys living?

	R:	You have six boys now. G:	Wow.

	L:	And that by itself is pretty good. G:	Yeah, that’s great.

	L:	And the thing that is most important is that I have no pain. G:	That is great. That’s fantastic.

	L:	It is, uh-huh. And I get up, and I attend to myself. Get up and do things. And she and I take walks each day, and—

	R:	She has a really healthy life. She has activities at the—well, she participates in church activities. So she gets extracurricular activity there and at home with her





family. She’s still a special lady, and all of her family want to make sure that they get a chance for her to come and stay with them still yet today.

	G:	That’s wonderful. Are they relatively nearby, or do you have to travel a bit? L:	Sometimes I do.

	R:	Most of them are right here in Florida.



	L:	Sometimes I go Miami, down there, I go down there. R:	You have family all over the place, like most families.

	L:	And there is so much joy in just giving them some of the history of family members, because I, at this time, I’m the oldest of—

	R:	She’s the monarch of our family right now. L:	And I had three brothers.

	R:	All are deceased.



	L:	Yeah.



	R:	All her family’s deceased, her immediate family. She’s the only one left. G:	So you’re in charge.

L:  And I let them know I’m in charge. [Laughter] I really do enjoy my life though, because every now and then someone will come and they visit. They visit me quite often. Who was that all about yesterday, Rose?

	R:	That was your nephew and his family from Gainesville. But anything else you want to say about Paradise Park that you think would be nice to do with it now that it’s changed over so many times? Anything that you would wish that they could incorporate in the new Silver Springs, now that the government owns it? Or the county, or whatever. Anything that you’d like to see happen at Silver Springs?





	L:	Not really. I think actually—



	R:	Maybe a plaque put up where Paradise Park used to be? L:	Well, that’s something that's possible.

	R:	Something so that generations from now can remember that—not just being segregated beach, but that it actually was a—

	L:	An area?



	R:	An area there, that people and family—



L:  Well, maybe that would be nice, note that. The big thing that I would really like to emphasize is that segregation is no longer an important part of America, and that in this day and time man has the opportunity to go and to be wherever it is that—

R:   They want to be.



	L:	A public place. And we are not, actually, what you call segregated from each other. And I think those are the big things that I would like to emphasize.

Segregation is no longer a part of the life of American people. And that’s enough right there, just that.

	G:	Well thank you very much. Unless you have anything else to add I think I got some good stuff.

	L:	And I’m glad to talk to you. You’re a pretty young lady. G:	Thank you very much.

	R:	Katie, thanks so very much for having me. [End of interview]





Transcribed by:   Jennifer Romero, January 10, 2017





	Audit edited by:	Patrick Daglaris, February 10, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 26, 2019