AAHP 040; Brigety; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 040 Reuben Brigety African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on February 7, 2009 10 minutes | 5 pages



Abstract: In this interview at the Celebrate the Firsts Weekend Gala, Dr. Reuben E. Brigety discusses his experience of being one of the first African American students at the University of Florida. He grew up hearing about Virgil Hawkins, who was denied admittance into the UF law school many times throughout the 1940s and 1950s, which made Dr. Brigety want to attend UF. He remembers the entire Black community in Gainesville rallying for him and the other Black students to persevere and graduate.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; Celebrate the Firsts; Integration]



Standards

	SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws

	SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.



































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 040

Interviewer: Marna Weston Interviewee: Reuben Brigety Date: February 7, 2009



W:  This is Marna Weston, on February 7th, 2009 at Emerson Hall at the University of Florida Celebrating the Firsts weekend gala, and having a conversation with one of our pioneering foot soldiers at the University of Florida, Dr. Reuben E. Brigety. [said with a soft “g”]

B:  Brigety. [said with hard “g”] W:  Brigety, sir?

B:   Yes, mmhm.



	W:	Thank you very much, Dr. Brigety, for this opportunity to talk with you.



Considering where you started—and everybody talks about the struggle—but considering where you started, and where you are now, did you ever think there’d be a night like this at the University of Florida? This type of celebration?

B:   No.



	W:	What would have led you to come to that conclusion?



	B:	Well… It wasn’t so much anything about the university, it was just the time and everything that I came to the university. Also, under some of the circumstances; I knew Virgil Hawkins, who tried to get into the university law school back in the late [19]40’s and early 1950’s. And that’s the first time that I heard of the University of Florida. Of a note is that I used to have a bad stammer, and Virgil Hawkins talked very, very fast. I used to complain to my grandmomma, “Well grandmomma, I can’t talk!” My grandmomma used to say, “Well Virgil Hawkins can’t talk, and he’s trying to get into the University of Florida.” So that was an imprint on my mind, even as a little boy: the University of Florida. It was





something special to me, and something that—I guess that I wanted the challenge, and wanted to be a part of it. I was always a Gator. Used to follow the football team back in the 1950’s in the newspaper. It was just mystified that I couldn’t come here. To have come here and now to be a part of something that this night represent is just beyond my imagination.

	W:	Could you describe the climate of Florida at that time in the 1950’s that led to people of color not coming to the University of Florida—in your words?

	B:	Well, I think it was lack of socialization. Fortunately, I had gone to Morehouse College before coming to medical school. When I got here in 1965, I think it was approximately forty-eight Black students in all of the colleges in the university.

And we didn’t know each other. So it took us almost a year just to find out who’s here, and who’s here, and who’s here, and put two and two together and come up with some type of social ambiance. And I think that—early on, that was the biggest part about Blacks not coming to the University of Florida; there was no social interaction and life that they could be a part of. Just to watch those young kids out on the dance floor now and all, it’s just that they’re part, that they can be alive and communicate with each other.

	W:	What was your foundation? Did you have community members? Were there churches? What was it that kept you sane, gave you a place of home when you were here in the community at those times when it wasn’t integrated on campus?

	B:	I think that just living in the Black community for one thing. Even the janitors down at the hospital: everybody was just pulling for you, just pulling for you. And





that you’d know that you just had to stick it out no matter what. So, I think that people just gave me a sense to keep going.

	W:	What was a high point and a low point of your University of Florida experience?



	B:	[Long pause] The low point was going to a cleaners close to the campus, with the sign “Welcome, Gator.” So I thought I had arrived. And I had maybe ten white shirts and four colored shirts. And I walked in and say, “Light starch on the hangers.” And the lady told me that “We don’t do colored laundry.” And I was young and naïve to the point that I said, “Well, just do the white shirts, and I’ll do the colored shirts at home.” You know, because—. And she, her look I’ll never forget, because it wasn’t one that she thought I was being uppity. It was one that she genuinely could see that I was being sincere. And her answer was, “Well, I mean that we don’t do colored people’ laundry.” And I think that was probably the lowest point, because it kind of, she jarred me back into some reality. So, maybe at that point, you may look for racism in everything, that, even when it wasn’t there. My high point was that when Dr. Cotman and I finished the University of Florida Medical School, our picture was on the front page of most of the newspapers in Florida. And that was a big highlight in my life here at the University of Florida.

	W:	When you think back on that, is that kind of incredible to you, that two men graduating from the University of Florida was such a huge deal? Or do you place it in the perspective of the times, and your life now?

	B:	I think that it was a big deal. It think that it was a big deal, because not only finishing from the University of Florida, but finishing from a professional school at





the University of Florida; I think that that was a big deal at the time. Not just for me, and for Dr. Cotman, but for the whole state. And that we had done this basically without the rancor that we saw at some of the other states in the South. I think that that was a big deal.

	W:	UF is celebrating fifty years of integration with Celebrating the Firsts. What do you predict for the next fifty years?

	B:	Well gee, you got a Black president? Anything possible! [Laughter] W:	Wishes for the students, advice for the next fifty years?

	B:	For the students, it’s very simple: do the very best that you can. It’s no excuses. And that you’re here to become the best whatever you are to become. Do not get so involved in what you perceive as not being fair. Study hard. Have fun, but study hard.

	W:	This year, the Gator Nation has a slogan, “When did you first become a Gator?” I’m sure you’ve probably heard that on television and the commercials. Have you reflected on that? And if so, when did you first know that you were a Gator?

	B:	I knew I was a Gator—I wanted to be a Gator back in the 1950’s. Even when I was in elementary school with my grandmomma telling me about Virgil Hawkins. I knew I was a Gator from the Gator Club in Alexandria, Virginia. That’s where my son live, and we go back and forth up there for various things: wedding, and for the birth of my grandkids, and for their baptism. Invariably a place that I stayed, Embassy Suite, is right next door to the Joe Theismann Restaurant, where the Gator Club meet for all of the football games and all. And I saw all these Gator people, and I said, “What’s going on?” They said, “We’re the Gator





Club, we’re going watch football.” I said “Well, I’m a Gator!” They say, “Well, you come on in!” [Laughter] And just the way the young alumni treated me, I knew I had arrived. That I was a part of something greater than I had ever perceived to be. That I was part of the Gator Nation. I’m proud to be part of it.

	W:	Is there something perhaps we have not covered, or a point that you would like to leave the interview on? And at the conclusion of those remarks, that’ll conclude the interview.

	B:	Go Gators.



	W:	Go Gators. Thank you very, much sir. B:	Thank you, sir.

	W:	Much appreciated. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Andre Everette, date unknown Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 21, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019