AAHP 613; Brooks; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 613 Gwendolyn Brooks 7-12-2018 Interviewed by Julian Valdivia on July 12, 2018 41 minutes | 21 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Julian Valdivia talks with Gwendolyn Brooks, who grew up in Fort Meyers, Florida. Although Brooks traveled throughout the United States for her education and school, she frequently returned to Fort Meyers to visit family members.

Brooks remembers attending business school in Nashville, Tennessee, before transferring and finishing her higher education in Baltimore, Maryland. Brooks worked for the Department of Defense, retiring as a management analyst in southern Virginia. After her mother’s death, she retired to the Fort Meyers area to be closer to her roots.



Keywords: [Fort Meyers, Florida, Black community, education, business, Department of Defense, segregation, integration, Syracuse, Baltimore]



AAHP 613

Interviewee: Gwendolyn Brooks Interviewer: Julia Valdivia

Date: July 12, 2018

	V:	This is Julian Valdivia with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. I’m here today in Roberto Clemente Park at the Lee County Black History Society interviewing—

	B:	Gwendolyn J. Brooks.



	V:	Gwendolyn J. Brooks. Alright, and Gwen, could you tell me how to spell your name?

	B:	G-W-E-N-D-O-L-Y-N.



	V:	Okay.



	B:	The “J” is for Josephine. V:	Okay.

	B:	Do you want that or just the J? V:	Just the J should be fine.

	B:	Okay, Brooks, B-R-O-O-K-S.



	V:	Okay, and Gwen, where were you born? B:	I was born here, in Fort Meyers.

	V:	Okay, in what year? B:	July 4th, 1937.

	V:	July 4th, 1947.



	B:	[19]37.



	V:	Oh, [19]37, sorry. Independence Day. And you just recently celebrated a birthday then.

	B:	Right, eighty-one.



	V:	Wow. Okay, who were your parents? B:	Cora Jones and Toby Ervin.







V:

Okay, and could you spell their names please?

B:

C-O-R-A, “B,” for Bivens, and Jones, J-O-N-E-S.

V:

All right.

B:

And T-O-B-Y, Toby, Ervin, E-R-V-I-N.

V:

Ervin. Okay. And were they also from Fort Meyers originally?

B:

No, my mother was from Georgia, I can’t think of the name of the place. And my



dad was from, I think, South Carolina, I’m not sure.

V:

Okay, and so did they ever tell you why they moved to Florida originally?

B:

Basically, to get away from home, my mother did. And I guess the working



opportunity for my dad.

V:

Okay, what did your father do for work?

B:

Farm work.

V:

Okay.

B:

Yeah, both of them did.

V:

Did you know where in particular they worked farming?

B:

Well, I know my mother worked for the A&W Farm, yeah.

V:

What was the A&W Farm?

B:

Vegetables.

V:

Okay.

B:

And flowers, Gladiolus.

V:

Oh, they worked in Gladious. Okay, and when you were growing up, did you



have any siblings?

B:

Yes, I had four.





	V:	Just in case we get on a topic of them, what were their names?



	B:	My oldest sister’s name is Lillie May, L-I-L-L-I-E, M-A-E. My other sister, the second one is Willie, W-I-L-L-I-E, Lee, L-E-E. Then Roberta, she didn’t have a middle name. And then my brother, Willie Julius J-U-L-I-US, and I was the fifth one.

	V:	And you were the baby of the family? Okay, and so where did you go to elementary school here?

	B:	Dunbar, it was Dunbar Elementary and then I went to Williams, what is now the Black History Museum—

	V:	Yeah, Williams Academy.



	B:	It was called something else then, I forgot. It wasn’t called Williams Academy but anyway—

	V:	Did it have another name, Jared?



	E:	Yes ma’am, it was Williams Academy and then they also called it Williams Primary.

	B:	Williams Primary, yes.



	V:	Oh, I should mention too Jared Edy is listening in so if there is like a specific point I’ll ask him. All right, so then do you remember who your teachers were or were there any teachers that stood out to you there?

	B:	I had Mrs. Sessions, Mrs. Stollsburg, Mrs. Douse, my homeroom teacher was Mrs. Mann, Elizabeth Mann. I had Mrs. Butler.

	E:	Aretha Butler.



	B:	And Mrs. Edwards, her sister.





	E:	Clara Sessions. Elizabeth Stollburg, Bernice Douse.



	B:	And I had Mr. Primase, as my science teacher.



	V:	Do you remember any that had a particularly large impact on you?



	B:	Oh, I forgot Mrs. Hughes, she did because we were in the business program in high school, it was a group of us was in the business program, she was our business teacher. Laurene P. Hughes.

	V:	In what way did that business class impact you, then?



	B:	Because that was what I went to school for, I went to Business College in Nashville, Tennessee and it’s because of the business program here at Dunbar.

	V:	All right, so what was it about business that drew you to the field?



	B:	Because I like typing and shorthand and during that time, you had to pick what you wanted to be when you grow up and I decided I wanted to be a secretary. So that’s why I was into business.

	V:	And so, when you went to the business program with Laurene P. Hughes, that was at Dunbar High School then?

	B:	Yeah, that was the ninth through the twelfth.



	V:	Okay, and you were—I think I remember hearing you say you were class of [19]55, correct?

	B:	Yes.



	V:	Okay, so—I’m trying to frame the question. What was it like going to school back then that makes it different from now? What’s the important, stand-out things then that you’d point out?





	B:	Well, it was segregated for one thing and we had the middle school and the high school all in the Dunbar building, and I didn’t go to middle school here. I left in the fifth grade and came back in the ninth, so I went to middle school in Syracuse, New York. And I came back to Dunbar. But, you know, during that time it was segregated here and integrated there.

	V:	So why did your family go to Syracuse?



	B:	Well, my mother didn’t go. My dad was living there and my stepmother, so he came down here and got me to go up there and live with them and go to school.

	V:	Okay, why did your father go to Syracuse to live up there then?



	B:	For better job opportunity. He was a truckdriver. He drove in different states, but he moved up there because of the better opportunities for housing, jobs.

	V:	Okay. Was education a factor, did your siblings come with you to get a better education?

	B:	No, they stayed here with my mother.



	V:	Okay, so why did you go up then, alone?



	B:	Because that was my father, that wasn’t theirs’s.



	V:	Oh, I see. Leaving to middle school then, what experience was that like then going to an integrated—how did you interpret it as a kid going to an integrated school coming from growing up in a segregated environment here in Fort Meyers?

	B:	I guess because of my age— my youth, it didn’t seem that different. It didn’t bother me, it was just other kids, you know? Some Black and some White and





some Spanish, it was a mixture. I went to Madison Junior High in Syracuse and I didn’t have any incidents where it really affected me one way or the other.

	V:	Coming back then, and then going to Dunbar High in a segregated high school, then did that have any kind of impact on you?

	B:	No, I came back to people I knew, that I grew up with. It was just that four-year period that I wasn’t here. So the kids that I came back to were kids that I had gone to elementary school with. So I just rejoined them. Before I left, I had a different teacher because we’d been in elementary school and I came back, I met the new teachers. That was the only difference.

	V:	Could I ask, what kind of extracurriculars did you do in high school while you were in school?

	B:	Except for being in the business program, I was on National Honor Society for four years, ninth through twelfth. I was in the home economics program—

	E:	Future Homemakers of America?



	B:	Yeah. And I wasn’t sports inclined so I always just sat down on the benches when they played basketball and all that. I got a “B” because I dressed in my gym suit every day in my tennis shoes. But I’m an inside person.

	V:	All right, so then graduating from high school in 1955, what did you—I know you said you had gone to business school?

	B:	Yeah, the National School of Business in Nashville, Tennessee. A recruiter came and talked to us, talked to the people that was in the business program. And it was supposed to be three of us to go, but of the three of us, I was the only one. Both girls decided not to go. So in my class, I was the only one that went. People





have gone after me, I found out that a couple of girls that was ten years after I went.

	V:	Were the other two girls your friends?



	B:	Yeah, the three of us, they used to call us the “Three Musketeers”. We were best friends. One of them has passed since then but the other one lives at Holly Heights. But we all graduated in [19]55, they just decided not to go.

	V:	Can I ask you their names? B:	Hazel McGriff.

	V:	Hazel McGill?



	B:	Hazel McGriff, G-R-I-F-F. V:	Oh, McGriff. G-R-I-F-F.

	B:	Yes. And Rozella, R-O-Z-E-L-L-A.



	V:	R-O-Z-E-L-L-A.



	B:	Right, and that’s the one that’s past. Wright, W-R-I-G-H-T.



	V:	W-R-I-G-H-T. Okay and so why did Hazel and Rozella decide against going to the National School of Business with you?

	B:	I think Hazel just changed her mind, maybe because she had never been away from home, I don’t know. But Rozella got pregnant. [Laughter]

	V:	So could I ask, because Tennessee, was the business school up there also a segregated school or no?

	B:	Yes, it was.



	V:	Okay. I just asked because I know Tennessee is along the border states so I didn’t know myself. And so you said it was in Nashville, correct?





	B:	Mmhm, yeah.



	V:	Okay, how is Nashville different from Fort Meyers? Because I know Fort Meyers at the time was really like small town America then?

	B:	Yeah, well Nashville was larger. I didn’t really experience too much of going around Nashville, I was just in the area where the school was. I think we went on a couple of fields trips but other than that I didn’t venture too much. I didn’t do too much sightseeing or anything like that. I only stayed there one semester and then I went to Baltimore, Maryland, to Cortez W. Peters Business School, and that’s where I finished.

	V:	Okay, what was that school called?



	B:	Cortez, C-O-R-T-E-Z, Cortez W. Peters Business School. Yeah, and I had an older sister that lived in Baltimore.

	V:	Which older sister was that? B:	Lillie Mae.

	V:	Okay.



	B:	She has passed, too.



	V:	And so did you have any family or what of your family was still in Fort Meyers then, your mother?

	B:	My mother, all my other siblings.



	V:	Okay, and so moving from Nashville to Baltimore, Maryland, why did you decide to switch after your first semester?





	B:	Because I was lonely, I guess, and I decided I didn’t like it. And I had my sister and brother and all in Baltimore. So I went to school in the daytime and worked in the evening at Johns Hopkins Hospital.

	V:	Oh, wow. What did you work there as? B:	A business assistant.

	V:	Okay.



	B:	But I wasn’t trying to go into the nursing program. I just had a job. I wouldn’t have made a nurse, so I stayed in the business program but I was working at Hopkins for the job, three to eleven.

	V:	And so how long did you stay in Maryland then?



	B:	Well, in the area I stayed thirty-something years. I stayed in Baltimore thirteen years and when I finished business school I got a job at Fort Meade, Maryland.

	V:	And why did you decide to stay in Maryland then? Did you like get more established and make more friends?

	B:	Yeah, and the job opportunities, because I went into the government, yeah. So, I worked at Fort Meade for five years, in the meantime I had gotten married and had my daughters. Then when I got back, I went to Andrews at Fort Baine in

D.C. Worked there, I think I worked there for maybe about thirteen years, too.



	V:	And—



	B:	Then I went to Defense Fuel Supply in Southern Virginia, and that’s where I retired.

	V:	Oh wow, okay.



	B:	In 1992.











	V:	In 1992, okay. So you worked with the government most of your life? B:	Yeah, Department of Defense.

	V:	What drew you to the Defense Department? Was it just, again, the opportunities?



	B:	Yeah, the job opportunities and it was in my field. I started as a clerk practice when I went to Fort Mead, and when I retired I was a management analyst in Virginia.

	V:	So after all this time in Maryland and Virginia, why come back to Fort Meyers?



	B:	Because this is my hometown and I’m retired. I’m retired thirty-three years. The reason why I decided to come back here was because my mother was living, so in 1992 after I had put in my papers to retire, she passed in January and I was officially retired in July. So I retired in November of [19]92.

	V:	Was your father still going around for work?



	B:	He was still living in Syracuse, New York. He passed when I had moved back down here and I think my daughter was about five. Yeah, I moved back down here, he passed when I was down here. And she was a baby, because I don’t really remember the exact year—she was born in 1965 and I think he must have passed in 1966.

	V:	Okay. So just so I know, your father then, so he lived up in Syracuse the whole time, did your parents split?

	B:	Yeah. His wife that he had, and my mother, he was not married. So my mother was married to my siblings’ father, Jones. I didn’t mention him, but his name was Willie Jones.





	V:	That’s fine. Coming back to Fort Meyers, you have family. You decided to come back because your mother had lived down here and it was home to you.

	B:	You mean when I was a child?



	V:	I mean coming back to Fort Meyers— B:	After I retired?

	V:	Yeah, after you retired. Had you ever made trips back here in between to visit family or things like that?

	B:	When I was working you mean? Every year, on my vacation. V:	Okay.

	B:	Because my mother and everybody was here, so I came back every year.



	V:	Was there a typical time of the year whenever you’d come, like the holidays or anything like that?

	B:	Usually, a couple weeks in the summertime. Sometimes I came twice because I would come at Christmastime.

V:  So I guess having seen everything then—Did it ever startle you the differences between living up in Virginia versus here in Fort Meyers where things were still segregated up until like the [19]70s?

	B:	I guess the segregation, it never affected me when I was here as a child, all my friends were raised in the Dunbar area. My mother moved from Lime Street to Harlem Heights when I was three years old and I stayed there until I was eighteen, when I finished school and went to Tennessee. So all of my classmates and everything I rode the school bus with, we did things together and I went to football games and socials and stuff after that. And when I was going to school in





Syracuse, New York, in middle school, whatever the school was having, you know, activities, I went to that. I don’t think the fact that some of the kids were White and some of the kids were Black mattered to me. I don’t think it made an impact on me one way or another. Then when I came back here in high school, everybody that I was associating with was Black again. I don’t think that bothered me either, because they were the kids that I was going to school with so they were the ones I saw socially and stuff like that. I don’t think that the fact about the segregation and the integration made an impact on me one way or another.

	V:	That’s fair to say.



	B:	I’ve never had any unpleasant events where you know—I never boycotted, nobody never bombed my school and stuff like they’re doing now. Shooting and stuff like that. So it never bothered me.

	V:	So can I ask then, what were some of the big differences then that at least stood out in your mind when you came back to Fort Meyers in 1992 comparing it to your childhood?

	B:	Well, when I came back then it was integrated. So everybody wasn’t living in the Dunbar area like I remember. So, when I was growing up here, everybody either lived in the Dunbar area or in Harlem Heights, or a different town like Immokalee or something. They would come and be in school bus from Naples, Punta Gorda, Immokalee—they were all coming to Dunbar to come to school. But when I came back, it wasn’t like that because they had the schools—everybody was living all over so they went to different schools, the kids. But I was out of school then.





Except, you know, when I came back in high school it was still segregated. I think they integrated in the [19]60s.

	V:	[19]69 is when they started.



	B:	See, I graduated in [19]55. So then I had nieces and nephews that were going to integrated schools.

	V:	And so going off that, when you retired, where did you end up moving here in Fort Meyers.

	B:	To Lehigh Acres.



	V:	Okay, to Lehigh Acres. And so Lehigh Acres even now isn’t really that developed, what drew you to Lehigh?

	B:	Because when I decided to retire I went house hunting. I went to Cape Coral and Lehigh and Fort Meyers and I just found the place that I liked in Lehigh. Because by that time, my mother had passed. So I didn’t necessarily need to live in Fort Meyers, which is where she lived.

	V:	Okay. And with the—I’m trying to collect my thoughts here. I want to ask then, what were—once you had come back here, what were some of the recreational things to do around here?

	B:	Well, I joined Mount Sherman Church and basically my activities centered around things that the church would have, banquets, we used to have a little feast every year, a form of the fair. And the Dunbar reunion that they have every other year. Just social events that still center around the Dunbar area. I can’t think of anything except for having picnics at Lake Spar and stuff like that. It’s not too much social stuff that I do that’s not centered around the church.





	V:	Talking about the Dunbar reunions, how big are those even now?



	B:	Ever since the first class to graduate up until—I think like sixty-five classes. But even people that didn’t graduate from Dunbar attend once they have lived in Dunbar. When the schools were integrated, then a lot of the classes they just pick a year and they go. Like the class of [19]70-something, they just go. It’s just a big, every year it’s a big social event and it lasts four days.

	V:	For the whole community. Which is interesting too. It’s nice knowing that people that went to school together, before, with school choice and things like that, most people were neighbors.

	B:	A lot of them were, yeah.



	V:	Do you still have a lot of friends that you catch up with at the socials and everything?

	B:	Well, now I don’t because we are falling off so much. I think it’s our class started out being like fifty-two and it’s only about four or five that even attend now. But I see other people from other classes, because the class that was several years behind me and several years before me, I still know them. So yeah, I look forward to seeing them.

	V:	And so why do you think attendance has fallen off? Just age and things like that?



	B:	Yeah, age and health reasons. You know, some moved away. They had been just recently, three of my really close friends passed and they were attending. Danny Redman, Nathaniel Salters, and Odis Harris. Within the last two years, all three of them passed. You know, that’s the reason why.

	V:	Okay. Could I ask, what kind of activities do you do at Mount Armon?





	B:	I’m in the Royal Ambassadors, it’s a senior group for fifty years and older, so I participate in that. We are having a social media class for the Royal Ambassador group because we don’t know a lot about the cell phones and tablets and all that, so that started last night. I’m attending that. You know, whatever they offer. Every year, whatever social events they offer, I participate.

	V:	Well, I guess I don’t really have much to ask about anymore. I’ve kind of exhausted my repertoire of things. Jared, did you have anything that you wanted to touch on?

	E:	So Mrs. Williams said you currently attend Mount Armon? B:	Yes.

	E:	Was that something when Pastor Daniel was there?



	B:	Mmhm, Pastor Daniel was my pastor for five years before he passed.



	E:	And so growing up in the community, did your family also attend or did you go to church out in Harlem?

	B:	I went to church out in Harlem, Mount Pleasant. But for a short while, when I went on Maternity leave, I thought that I wasn’t gonna go back to work for the government so I came down here. I stayed down here for about nine months and I joined Saint John and I worked at Dunbar, the new Dunbar over there on Anderson.

	E:	Oh, Anderson. The transition.



	B:	Yeah, but then I decided to go back. And I had to be back before a year to keep from losing my status, so I went back.





	E:	So, growing up out with A&W and that’s out where the Gladeolei was out, did you notice a difference between the community in Harlem and the community in Dunbar or was it pretty much the same?

	B:	It was different, because Dunbar was larger and the housing was better. Harlem, now it’s beautiful but then they had those little wooden huts. So there was a difference. People over here in the Dunbar area seemed to be more well-off.

E:  So, when the family shopped, do you recall ever shopping in downtown Fort Meyers, like on the Fern Davis and Sidney Davis Dress Shop and Diana’s Shop?

	B:	Yeah, I remember shopping at Diana’s. They had a belt—they used to call it Belt Lindsay, I think. And a Penny’s. they used to have that Floxie Heels, but that was more expensive. I never saw her there, but Diana was the main place I used to go.

	E:	And when you recall going there, do you recall if the African American ladies were allowed to try on the clothes? Could you go in the dressing room and try it, or you had to buy off the rack? Do you remember what those days were like?

	B:	I think we used to try on clothes. I don’t really remember anybody turning us away.

	E:	I’m really curious then I’ll be quiet, living and working in the Department of Defense, when you started working and you started your career up on the eastern coast, there were still some elements of segregation still around. Did you feel any of that working with the defense department or did you feel things were moving towards integration in your professional work?





	B:	I never felt the segregation, because everybody was already living the same place and working together. I think the only segregation was the people had segregated themselves, like when you made friends you usually made friends with somebody that’s similar to you. So when people went out to lunch together, it was usually, you know, the Black people going with them and the White people going together and that was because they knew each other and was friends. But I had two or three of the girls that we used to go to lunch together. It was an integrated group, because we had made friends with each other by working in the same section.

	E:	Attending high school at Dunbar, was Mr. Barker your principal? B:	Yes.

	E:	Okay, so do you have any memories of what school was like at Dunbar? You mentioned Mrs. Hughes and a lot of other teachers. Do you have any recollection of what the day was like, of how the day felt as a student at Dunbar?

	B:	Well, I knew everybody was scared of Mr. Barker. He had that loud voice, you’d be so small, you’d hear him down the hall asking somebody why they in the hall instead of being in class and stuff like that. And during that time, you could be sent to the principal and he could hit ya in the hand with that belt, which I didn’t ever have to go because I always did exactly what I was told. But yeah, I remember Mr. Barker and Mrs. Barker.

	E:	She was the Glee Club, music, right? B:	Yeah.





	E:	In recreation, you mentioned coming out from Harlem and hanging out all the time, did you ever attend the drive-in that was in the community? The movie theater?

	B:	The theater that used to be up there in the corner, we used to go there on Saturday s and catch the bus. The last bus, I think, was about eleven o’clock so we had to make sure we caught that bus going back home. But they used to have that drug store down on the corner, I think it was then Anderson Avenue and so we would walk back and forth from the movie theater to that drug store, all night until time to go home.

	E:	So out in Harlem, it was very close to Bunche Beach. Did you and your family ever take a trip over to attend the beach?

	B:	Yeah, but I’m not a water person.



	E:	You’re not a water person, okay. Like me.



	B:	So when I went to the beach I maybe would wade a little bit. And sometimes we used to have little picnics and stuff like that. But I’ve never been really a water person, still not. But at least once a year I remember they used to have something big, like the community would go there.

	V:	You mean just like a big family trip or?



	B:	Something was happening where everybody was going to the beach and taking a picnic basket or something like that. I don’t remember it being any specific time, it seemed like maybe Fourth of July or something. Might have been a holiday, I was young. I think when they used to have something for when the seniors was graduating, they used to have something on the beach. Something happened, a





girl—somebody went out and got lost. I don’t remember whether somebody got drowned or they had some kind of problem but then they stopped, they didn’t allow you to do that before graduation anymore.

	V:	Interesting, do you know what year that was, the drowning?



	B:	It was before my class. I think that was maybe about eight or ten years before my time, I would have to ask somebody but they used to be allowed to go to the beach and they said that some kind of accident happened. The ones that would remember are the ones that have passed, Daniel, Odis, and May.

	E:	I remember Mr. Daniel, he used to get his hair cut at my folk’s barber shop. So as a boy, he would tell the story because I remember them talking about they went to prom and Michael Cor had borrowed my great grandfather’s car and drove out to Bunche Beach. But something happened with the car, and they took water from the beach and poured it in the car and the saltwater messed up the car. I remember them talking, Mr. Daniel Redman, I remember those stories.

	B:	Yeah, he was my class president. V:	Why would they pour it in the car?

	E:	They were teenagers. The car was running hot, so they poured some water down in there, and they were stranded out on Bunche Beach and my great grandfather had to go get them. So, do you remember— I know, hearing the stories, graduation was a big deal, do you remember the lead-up to graduating in [19]55, graduation day?

	B:	Well, except for people getting prepared, you know, just a bunch of bustle and excitement,. In my class, I was the third, and Mrs. Mann wanted me to challenge





because Peggie Houston and May Farrer were both in Mrs. Butler’s class and I was in her homeroom. So, she wanted me to challenge them, wanted them to do the figures over. But I didn’t want to because I didn’t want to have to make a speech, so I was happy just being third.

	V:	The thing about other big events too, I completely forgot to ask about the Dunbar Easter Parade, was that a big event when you were growing up?

	B:	Yeah. It was a big event, but I never was in it. I was always a spectator but I think it was a bigger event then when Sam was over it than it is now. You know, everybody looked forward to it and they had a lot of floats. Now I think they only have basically people riding in cars. So yeah, that was really a big event back in the day.

	V:	Where did people normally prepare the floats? Was it an in-school thing or was it a bunch of friends getting together to make the floats at home?

	B:	I think it was basically people making floats at home. Because I think even Dunbar used to have one so they probably made that over on the Dunbar campus. Yeah, different organizations had them and they made them different places, because I used to see floats, different places, being prepared when we’d go on the school bus and stuff.

	V:	So I want to ask, too, during the Easter Parade, because I’ve never seen the Easter Parade now but looking at it back then, was it a big festival of sorts? Did they have vendors and things like that?





	B:	I don’t know whether they had vendors. The only thing I remember was them having candy that they would throw out to the kids. But I think they had a party at the Stars after the parade was over.

	V:	Okay, and who were the organizers? I know there was the one—Who was the woman who stated it?

	E:	Evelyn Sims Kennedy.



	V:	Evelyn Sims Kennedy, okay. Who ran the parade after her? E:	So—well, we can talk after, I’ll take over the interview.

	V:	All right, that’s just something I was curious about. I think that’s pretty much it, I don’t have anything else with mine so I guess I’ll cut it off there.





[End of interview]





Transcribed by: Abby Lovett



Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, July 2, 2021 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, July 6, 2021