AAHP 009; Jones; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 009 Oliver Jones

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Anne Smith on January 28, 2010 1 hour, 44 minutes | 41 pages



Abstract: Oliver Hugh Jones was born in Pensacola, Florida in 1920. His family moved to Gainesville when he was a toddler because high father accepted the position of Principal to Union Academy, the precursor to Lincoln High School. His father served in education for 42 years and the whole nuclear family worked as educators. Jones reflects on his childhood and the introduction of electricity, sewer lines, and indoor plumbing. Due to segregation, he never was at the University of Florida, but attended Florida A&M College. He discusses teacher’s wages, transportation, and economic pricing.



Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Education; Lincoln High School]

















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 009

Interviewee: Oliver Jones Interviewer: Anna Smith Date: January 28, 2010



	S:	My Name is Ann Smith and I am at the home of Oliver Jones in Gainesville, Florida. We are here to do an oral history for the Matheson Museum, Matheson Historical Museum. How about I give the date as January 28, 2010 and ask you your full name to begin with.

	J:	Oliver Hugh Jones. S:	Hugh is H-U-G-H.

	J:	H-U-G-H.



	S:	All right, and tell me where you were born. J:	I was born Pensacola, Florida.

	S:	In Pensacola, and tell me when, please. J:	I was born there December the 20th, 1920. S:	In 1920. That makes you how old today? J:	Eighty nine years old.

	S:	Oh, that is wonderful.



	J:	Next time I tell people about my birthday, I’ll be ninety.



	S:	That’s wonderful. That’s wonderful. And you look in wonderful health. J:	Well, thank you.

	S:	And let me ask now, in Pensacola in 1920, were you born in a hospital or were you born at home?

	J:	Now, really I really don’t know— S:	You don’t know?

	J:	That, that part. And also I was there only for one year.







	S:	Uh-huh. And then where did you go? J:	To Gainesville, Florida.

	S:	What caused your family to move down to Gainesville?



	J:	Well, both my father and mother were educators. My father was a principal of the Washington High school in Pensacola. And he accepted an offer to come to Gainesville to become principal of Union Academy. Lincoln High School was not built at that time, with the understanding that there would be a new school that would be Lincoln High school two years later. So, in 1921 we came to Gainesville. The family moved to Gainesville. Where my mother’s home is Pensacola

	S:	Oh, I see. I was going to ask about where her roots were. J:	My father’s home is Quincy.

	S:	Uh-huh. Gotcha. And where you the first born in your family?



	J:	No, I wasn’t. I had a brother who was born two years ahead of me. S:	I see. I see.

	J:	In fact, I was born December 20, 1920; he was born December the 24th 1918. S:	My God!

	J:	We would have been exactly two years apart.



	S:	Just about. Just about. Well now, I know that you probably don’t remember the one year that you lived in Pensacola but let me ask what is your earliest remembrance as a child growing up in Gainesville?







	J:	Well I imagine I was about three years old, I remember when we moved to Gainesville and he was renting. He had not built his own house until about five years later.

	S:	Uh-huh. And what do you remember about the house that you were renting?



	J:	Well, Dad really rented several houses before we moved to the house right across from the A. Quinn Jones Center, now.

	S:	Uh-huh.



	J:	I remember, I really remember about all three—a few little things.



	S:	It’s interesting how, how we remember like a floor plan or we remember a hallway or a bedroom or something from that far back.

	J:	Well definitely I remember the second house that he lived in or that we lived in and it was two stories. All of the houses were two story; this was two story and there was a porch upstairs, a railing; I was playing on the railing up there. And before they could move me, I fell down from the second floor up there. So I remember that.

	S:	Well, did you hurt yourself?



	J:	Not enough to go to the doctor or anything like that. I have good reason to remember that one.

	S:	Well, you remember the railing very well. Well, your father was an educator. So he came here as a principal is that right?

	J:	Yes, that’s right and the school was Union Academy because that was before what they call “Old Lincoln,” called “New Lincoln” then.







	S:	So how was he about you and your brother and homework and emphasis on education? Was he stern with you or was he helpful?

	J:	Well, Dad was quite a disciplinarian in connection with school and in connection with home also. We respected him and he was very helpful. In fact, he even taught me and my brother. He was certified in a number of areas including especially in science and mathematics, but social studies, also. Not just taught, but he was certified in all those areas and in Latin also. He was certified to teach that and he taught me two years of Latin and taught my brother two years of Latin.

	S:	And was that after school? J:	No no, I mean, in his class.

	S:	Well, how was that? I mean were the other students aware of that?



	J:	Yes, they were. They knew that I was his son and they used to tease me about that. I don’t why to this day, but I used to like foreign languages and what have you. I was a former math teacher myself and things like that and enjoyed it. But I raised my hand like I liked Latin and what have you. The other students, they would tease me because he would call another student like Mary or somebody else. And every time he would call me, he would say “you” and they would tease me about that.

	S:	He’d call someone else by name, “But you know who you are.” Well, obviously there was a high value on education in your home. What are the other values







that you remember? Was religion a strong emphasis when you where growing up?

	J:	Yes! My father was not only principal of Union Academy, the ‘old’ Lincoln High school, he also served in teaching for forty-two years and educator leader most of the time, all of the time he served as principal, principal-teacher, as principal all of that time. But he spent thirty years as superintendent of the Sunday school. So he really went to Sunday school and church and Sunday school. We were required to go to Sunday school, but it was left up to us if we wanted to remain for church services.

	S:	And did you say grace at home?



	J:	Yes, and in fact, so later I finally became associate superintendent of Sunday school.

	S:	Did you? You became active just like he was?



	J:	We always—we were trained that way. We would always say grace before each meal whether he was home or not home, and to this day I still do that. You know, the things that I saw.

	S:	Yes, those early influences when we are raised.



	J:	And that is a very important tool for parents, even for today. The first teaching really is the parent anyway, so that they do have responsibility to get their children started in right direction early to help them develop their interests and their attitude, because when they are five, six, and seven years old, their fundamental attitudes have been formed.







	S:	What other things do you remember about your early childhood? What did the family do for fun?

	J:	Well, I don’t want to be too critical about this; I think it is a good idea to have recreational center for the children to have a place to play after school hours and on the weekend and what have you. In many cases parents, even today, we need another recreation center—which is fine. But when we were growing up we didn’t have recreation centers, at least not for the Negro children anyway, even though we didn’t have it, we still knew how to behave. We didn’t put it on we didn’t know how to behave because we didn’t have a recreation center. The parents have a responsibility that they do not accept in many cases in training and rearing their children. And they put everything on the school, but don’t put everything on the schooling. They have a responsibility also.

	S:	It’s really changed in our culture has in it? It really has. J:	That is right.

	S:	What games do you remember playing? J:	That a good question.

	S:	Well, when I think of how many years you have been here, and I keep thinking you know what was available and when children made their own fun.

	J:	Yes, because I think of—well, I finished, not that I’m bragging about that—I finished high school when I was sixteen years old. So, I was young and small and many of the others had a tendency to be older than the students are now in







the high school. So they liked football. They were grown children, like grown people playing football. I certainly didn’t play any football. [Laughter]

	S:	That wasn’t your sport!



	J:	So, I decided I would try for basketball and even then the other boys were older.



Even the boys and the girls had a tendency to be older in the high school and graduating from high school. So I tried to play basketball but I didn’t do too much good then because the others were a lot older and more experienced. So I didn’t do too much in connection with sports.

	S:	Did you play like in the neighborhood, where you lived? Did you play with neighbor kids? Did you play hide and seek games or anything like that?

	J:	No. I was, I don’t want to brag about this, but anyway, I was kind of studious and I spent a lot of time reading and things of that sort. Well since you mention it, my mother passed away at an early age in 1928 and I wasn’t even seven years old then. Dad married again and he made a poor choice. He got a divorce a few years later. And then we were left alone and my two sisters moved to Jacksonville to live with my aunt, one of my aunts in Jacksonville. And that left me and my brother at home with Dad. So you talk about playing, while most of the children were playing and what have you, I was the cook. I was doing the cooking. My brother did it first and he went to college two years ahead of me and then I did all of the cooking, the washing the dishes, the cleaning the house. We had a wood stove—we are talking way back when—and get the wood and get ready and prepared for the next day—you name it. I had quite a bit to do but I







enjoyed it. And then I had a person Thornton Roberts, who was well known. He was a teacher at ‘old’ Lincoln and then he became a principal at Stanton Vocational School in Jacksonville. He lived right next door. So, when I grew up I learned how to use my hands—not so much from dad but from Thornton Roberts.

	S:	What’s his first name? What was her name? J:	His name?

	S:	Yes.



	J:	Thornton.



	S:	Thornton.



	J:	Roberts.



	S:	Thornton, okay. Thank you.



	J:	A lot of the things I learned how to do around the house, even here, I learned from Thornton Roberts. I learned how to splice wires and repair light fixtures and this and that.

	S:	You take those lessons with you don’t you?



	J:	Yes right. So, I had plenty to do even though I didn’t do a lot of playing.



	S:	Well, you mentioned your sisters. So, you had two younger sisters is that right? J:	Two girls are younger than the boys.

	S:	Are they still living?



	J.	No. Well, My younger sister is still living. In fact today is her birthday. She’s eighty-six years old today.







	S:	And is she in Jacksonville still?



	J:	Still living in Jacksonville. We were all educators—a former teacher, an elementary teacher. We were all educators. She retired there from the elementary department. And my oldest sister passed away five years ago in Maryland. She lived in Ocala. She did all of her teaching in Marion County. Two years in Dunnellon and the rest of the years, right here in Ocala at Howard Academy and elementary school and Central Florida Junior College.

	S:	What a family of educators.



	J:	She taught English and Spanish. She passed away. S:	Lydia was the one in Ocala. Is that right?

	J:	That’s right.



	S:	Vera was your sister in Jacksonville.



	J:	That’s right. And of course, my brother was a teacher and a principal, too. So, we all worked in the field of education.

	S:	That’s wonderful. You were influenced a lot by your father. Do you remember your mother before she passed away?

	J:	Yes. She was an educator, also.



	S:	And she was an educator. Did she teach while you were little?



	J:	Yes, she was a teacher right in Pensacola, as well as, being on Lincoln’s Faculty. They were all teachers. My first step mother was a teacher and my second step mother. They all taught at Lincoln.







	S:	Well that’s wonderful! What a marvelous influence. You couldn’t avoid it! You couldn’t get out of it! You liked the language. Do you like Math?

	J:	Yes. I really wanted to be a medical doctor. I liked mathematics. That’s why I became a mathematics teacher. Because I did like mathematics.

	S:	Let me ask you about, in your early life and when you were going to school, you said you had a wood stove. That was for heating as well as cooking?

	J:	We used wood and some coal—we used some coal in the fireplace. But for cooking, it was always the wood stove.

	S:	So, do you remember when you got electricity?



	J:	Let me see now. I had graduated from college. It was sometime after that. And I had taught one year in Alachua County and several other counties including Winter Haven, Clearwater, and Williston. Then I went back to Gainesville for the ten years I was away from Gainesville. While I was away they changed over from a wood stove. Lights were always electric.

	S:	That would have been about what year, do you imagine?



	J:	Well, I finished college in [19]41. So, it was a little after that time was the change- over.

	S:	What about indoor plumbing? When you were little, did you have indoor plumbing?

J  Not at Dad’s house, but at the rental house we had indoor plumbing. Dad’s first house was across from A. Quinn Jones Center. We started out a few years with outside toilets.







	S:	Did you have a pump in the kitchen for water? J:	No. We had city water.

	S:	You had city water. I see.



	J:	Now, when you talk about this, it was all of Gainesville.



	S:	I know and that’s what I wanna know about. I wanna know about life in Gainesville.

	J:	The reason we didn’t have indoor plumbing and what have you back then—I hate to say this but it was true—is because we didn’t have sewer lines like the White neighborhoods. They didn’t have sewer lines in the Negro neighborhoods. So, they had a man, hired by the city, of course, to come and get the waste from the outhouses and what have you, each week, including the A. Quinn Jones Center. I remember when they didn’t have the sewer line. They didn’t have the paved roads nor the sewer lines until later. Mr. Charles Chestnut Sr., the funeral director, was very helpful in helping Negroes get sewer lines and have the city provide sewer lines. However, Dad hooked on because the school was there and the school had the sewer line. But everywhere else, there were no sewer lines.

	S:	So maybe your family was one of the first?



	J:	Yes, and then some others got sewer lines—there was probably some type of fee to pay, I don’t know the details about that—and indoor plumbing and bathrooms. Once we got sewer lines, Negroes were happy to hook on to them. This also goes for paved roads. Now, that was a trend, not only in Gainesville, but in Florida. If we went to a town or city, “Where does so-and-so live?” The first







thing we would do is note right off. We could tell we were approaching the house or whatever it was because the roads were paved and all of a sudden, the roads were not paved and they had the dirt roads.

S:   Really? That was almost like a landmark.



	J:	Yes right. Later on they started paving roads in the Negro neighborhoods. I was young but I remember, Northwest 7th Avenue, which used to be called “Columbia Street,” right there where the school was, it wasn’t paved at all. There was no pavement there at all, no pavement whatever—right on up to where the funeral home was and the churches. No pavement.

S:   It was just dirt roads.



	J:	If you went to any town in Florida, you always knew were the Negroes lived because the roads wouldn’t be dirt roads.

	S:	That’s a landmark. You can find that. Goodness. Well I imagine it got muddy when it rained, didn’t it?

	J:	Yes, it did. Not only then, but in Florida, in general. No paving. When I went to college at Florida A&M in Tallahassee, they didn’t have paved roads either.

That’s the way it used to be. So when I was a student, the main building and what have you, they were all on dirt roads.

	S:	Sure, sure.



	J:	Then you go to Florida A&M College there [inaudible at 22:16]. S:	Just like you say, that’s the way it was.







	J:	Incidentally if you talk about that other question and what have you, where the A. Quinn. Jones Center, that was right off the street from it. That’s where daddy’s house was. But I don’t want to sound awful, but anyway, that was true. As close as they were to the campus of the University of Florida, we could not attend the University of Florida. [Inaudible at 22:47] There was Negroes who lived west of 13th street. I used to go even closer to the campus playing with some of my friends but still could not go to the University of Florida. But things have changed. There are better opportunities now. And that’s what is so sad as I see it. So many of the Negro children have better and better opportunities now and they don’t know how it used to be. And in so many cases, they do not take full opportunities of a better chance to get a better education. Well, some do and some don’t. But they don’t know about those kinds of things. It’s kind of awful about that. The same way with school buses. Of course, I lived right across the street. I’m gonna to sound awful again but the White children had the buses and Negro children had no buses. Even when I started teaching, Negroes didn’t have a bus to get to school. They would get there the best way they could. That’s the way it was. We talked about how it use to be and how it is now. White children went to school nine months and Negro children went eight months. I never went to school nine months. But the White children went nine months.

	S:	I wonder what the rationale for that was.



	J:	But then I taught for four years including Polk County, Winter Haven, and all down in there, eight months when the Whites had nine. Later, in 1947 when the







Minimum Foundation Program came into effect and that was then all children, Nero, White, were required to go to school for nine months. I never went to school for nine months even in teaching a full six years, I even taught eight months while my other faculty taught for nine months. Got that extra month of salary.

	S:	Isn’t that something?



	J:	That’s the way it was. The reason I mention that—not to cause any problems, but because I think about the Negro children—that they don’t know that they have better opportunities now. So many of them still do not take advantage of the opportunities that they do have. They need to stop putting everything on racism. They don’t even know about racism like we did. They need to blame themselves, too, for not taking better advantage of the opportunity. They need to take some responsibilities and take advantage of the opportunities that they have. Not only that and not just because I am talking to you, the Negroes and the Whites, they should stop saying “I don’t like the Whites because they did this, this, and this.” “I don’t like the Blacks.” Some of my best friends are White people. And some of the biggest devils I know are Negro people.

	S:	I can believe that.



J:   And be objective about it. And stop blaming. There are better chances now and we are not taking advantage of our better opportunities. We are still just living in the past.







	S:	One of my hopes is that when you hear stories of like you and everyone in your generation and the challenges that you faced, if that doesn’t ring a bell with someone who is a younger person, in a younger generation, and make them appreciate what is available to them. I think you are making an important point. We talked about the school busses and that reminds me of what kind of transportation did you have? Do you remember having a car or when you first were living in Gainesville did you have—what kind of transportation?

	J:	Let me comment on that. Now for the Negroes, they got around the best way they could. I had a classmate who walked from the old airport, the Gainesville airport, all the way to old Lincoln to school every day and walked back. However, there were few Negroes who had cars. I remember also, Dad was the principal and he didn’t have a car either. He rode a bicycle.

	S:	Oh did he? So if he wanted to go someplace, he would ride his bicycle?



	J:	That’s right and in the summertime when school was cut back during the depression to seven months. So in the summer, he would be principal, teacher out in the Aradondo area. That school was in session during the summer when Lincoln was closed. But he rode his bicycle all the way out there; he didn’t have any car to go out there. He rode his bicycle and one time he got hurt a little bit. Somebody hit him and he fell off while he was riding his bicycle. It wasn’t serious.

	S:	Oh, my goodness; when you think of those distances now.



	J:	So, I remember the bicycle. It was around let’s see, it was around 1929 when he got his first car. It was a used Pontiac.







	S:	Was that an exciting family event?



	J:	Well, we were young. I am sure he was glad to stop riding that bicycle. It was a used Pontiac. So, in 1930, he got a new car. I remember that car. It was a maroon Chevrolet.

	S:	Do you remember going for rides in the car?



	J:	Oh, yes. Others who didn’t have a bicycle, they walked. I thought nothing of walking from where I lived to town. People walked everywhere. They didn’t think anything of it.

	S:	And we were probably a healthier nation then. To walk.



	J:	And then there were football games—we walked from A. Quinn Jones Center to Citizen’s Field; it was Harris field years ago and what have you. I thought nothing of it. In the football games, you walk from there to the football game and walk back after the game was- the others were walking around-

	S:	I was gonna say, and everybody else was too.



	J:	Everybody walked. We laughing and talking and what have you. It wasn’t just the children walking.

	S:	No, no not at all.



	J:	There were about five or six Negroes who had cars during that time. S:	That was a rarity.

	J:	There were those who worked at the post office—mail carriers and what have you. And they had cars before my father had a car.

	S:	I would imagine.







	J:	Salaries were better. I think of when I was in Winter Haven, in particular, and the salaries were very low. I had to tell them about this. Some of the orange pickers would be talking. I told them to stop and told them, “You know who is making the money. Do you know you are making more money than we’re making? We can go to school and work where it is clean but as far as making the money, you are making the money.” They just laughed about it.

	S:	I don’t think they realized.



	J:	And as orange-pickers, they were making the money. S:	I bet they were; that was big industry.

	J:	The thing that was really amusing was as a teacher, and if you saved any money at all, you saved it only to live during the summer because you only worked eight months. So, down in Cypress Gardens, they had regular waiters who worked in Cypress Garden. But just on Sundays, which was one of their main days on a Sunday they needed a little extra help. So, I would go there and I would wait tables—just on Sundays while I was teaching. I was telling them “I just go out there just on a Sunday, four Sundays in a month” and I didn’t know that much about making tips but the others out there knew all about tips. I made half of what I made teaching for a whole month—and extra half of that. And any experienced waiter for four Sundays. It seems like everybody made more money than teachers. I started off with a bachelor’s degree, and the annual salary before anything was taken out for retirement, which was very few—maybe $2—the annual salary was $600, for the whole year. Those who didn’t have that







bachelor’s degree made less. But, do you know, some of my best days, I could do more with that, then that I could do with a higher degree later. Things were cheaper then. And I know about the depression. I was a boy. I was looking right at grown people wanting to work—they just couldn’t get a job. They didn’t have the money. The price of everything came down—food, cars, and land. People could get an acre of land for $2. New cars they had in the newspapers: brand new Fords and Chevrolets were $395, which was brand new price. But it was still hard to buy that stuff but everything was cheap. So, if you did get $600, you could do more with that then with all the big amounts now.

	S:	When you lived with your Dad and brother, did you guys have a garden? Did you grow your own food?

	J:	When my mother was living, she had a garden. She had a garden in the back yard, a little small back yard. And later, a change of times, just across the street from the A. Quinn Jones Center,—we lived across the street from the center—it really was on the campus in front of the house, she had a little garden. It was a little larger than the one n the back yard. Nobody bothered a thing.

	S:	If you didn’t have a garden, where did you go for groceries?



	J:	Not far from the library on the main street, there was a grocery store right before you get to 8th Avenue.

	S:	When you bought clothes, where did you go? What stores do you remember downtown? What did downtown look like?







J:  There was Woolworth, two ten cent stores, McCrory’s, and Wilson’s Department store. And there was the post office. And the A & P Store so, when people went to town, they would buy their groceries, clothes—everything was there for them.

S:   Was the Gainesville Sun newspaper down there near the post office?



	J:	Yes. It was downtown near the post office, not way out like it is now. And a Chevrolet garage directly across from the post office, on the east side on the corner.

	S:	What about the theatre? Was there a theatre for you?



	J:	No. There was a Florida Theater, right near where Silverman’s was. But in Gainesville, the Negroes couldn’t go to that theatre. Finally, there was a Metts Theater that Negroes could go to but it was rough. Later, they built the Rose theatre; that was better. We could go there.

	S:	Do you remember seeing your first movie?



	J:	Back then, we didn’t have a lot of money to go to the movies. But I remember seeing “Gone with the Wind”. We saw that at the Rose Theatre. We couldn’t go to the Florida Theatre, not even upstairs. But in High Springs, Negroes would go to High Springs to the theatre because they could easily go up and sit in the balcony upstairs and see a real movie. But not in Gainesville. In some ways, High Springs was more liberal than Gainesville. Even towns in west Florida, like Quincy, where my father was born, so we would go to Quincy on a number of summers when he was working on masters degrees and we would go to the theater quite a bit. And you think West Florida? We could go upstairs in the







balcony. In Gainesville, we couldn’t go to the movies even in the balcony. So, some other places were far more liberal. So, Gainesville has grown quite a bit. Other places were far more liberal than Gainesville.

	S:	Do you remember movies that were silent?



	J:	I remember one or two of those. You would see the picture and then see the writing down below the picture.

	S:	So, when you started going to the movies, they had talking pictures?



	J:	Yes, later. But I can remember a little bit of the silent movies. But you talk about the theaters, in Gainesville we couldn’t go up in the balconies to watch those movies. Then, in connection with dad, he came to Gainesville because it was more liberal. I guess in some respects maybe they were. I also remember when Dad was working on his masters degree—he was living here, but he couldn’t go to the University of Florida. Not so much as a student here but he was working on his thesis—he used to talk about that quite a bit, his master’s thesis. And he needed some material from the library. I was a boy and I remember this when I was in high school. He could not go to the University of Florida to check a book out and some other materials and bring it home and read it. He was told that he was not able check a book out and carry it to your home and read it. But there again, Dad had some really nice White friends. One was a Dr. Mead and he would tell me, when I was in high school, “Now, here are some books here. And there is going to be a White man, and he is going to leave some, and these are the books you are to give him.” And he would bring some books to him. So, this







White professor would check out the books and bring them to Dad to work on his thesis. So Negroes shouldn’t put all Whites in the same category. And they helped Dad as much as they could. And then talking about how Gainesville has changed, back then Negroes couldn’t go onto the University of Florida unless they worked there. They hired Negroes for yard work and some other things. But if they didn’t work there, you didn’t go on campus. Sometimes Dad would park on the side of the streets during commencement ceremonies and look over to watch the graduates and professors. But even if you were an educator, he could not go over there. But later when they used to have the Gator Growls, and it was free then, Negroes were allowed to go there on campus. There are a lot of things about that campus that I still don’t know about because you just couldn’t go out there. That’s the way it used to be, but things are different now. Sometimes I think people put too much emphasis, “When there was slavery”; “When there was slavery, Negroes couldn’t do that or couldn’t do this.” Things are better now, and there are so many more opportunities.

	S:	Sometimes people get in a habit of concentrating on the negative or concentrating on the past when they could be emphasizing what opportunities are out there.

	J:	There should be more of a positive attitude.



	S:	Do you remember your father having a telephone at home?



	J:	I’m glad you mentioned that. Let me see now. I think there was one person—Mr.



Childs. He was a mail carrier. He had a telephone. And the funeral home,







Hughes and Chestnut—now it’s called Chestnut—they had a telephone. Well, I don’t know. Just off the top of my head. I don’t know if there were anymore Negroes who had telephones. But we didn’t have a telephone, and the school didn’t have a phone either. And when I worked one year in Alachua—it was called Alachua County Training School which is called A.L. Mebane School. They didn’t have a telephone, but when I left, at the end of the year—I worked in Winter Haven. They had a telephone.

	S:	Do you remember down town at night when they didn’t have electric street lights and they had gas streetlight?

	J:	I don’t remember that. I remember the electric street lights.



	S:	Do you remember having a fire station in downtown Gainesville?



	J:	The fire station was about a block and a half from the old post office.



S:  Do you remember them having horses for the wagons or do you remember them having the engines?

J:   Oh no! I remember the engines. But I do remember in the delivery of fresh milk, the trucks used to go through the neighborhood and deliver fresh milk. We went to the store and got ours, but there one or two Negro families—not that many— that received that service.

S:   When you went to the store and got your milk, did you have an ice box?



	J:	Yes. We had a real ice box and not a refrigerator. I had an aunt who was a teacher in Quincy and she had an ice box to and not a refrigerator.

S:   Did the ice truck come by to bring ice?







	J:	Dad would go and get our ice but there were other cases where the truck would come by for others.

	S:	But probably that cost more. We were talking about the citrus industry and some of the people who worked there. What other agricultural industries do you remember?

	J:	Well, I remember the citrus industry when I was working in Winter Haven. But there were still some citrus trees around Island Grove and up in that area. There it was different from Alachua County. The groves were all over the place. That was one case, the groves were all over—you could even dig up some orange trees before you could build your house. And the other, Winter Haven, the city of one hundred lakes, it is was segregated, but going to Winter Haven, there were lakes all over the place.

	S:	Do you remember knowing people in the Black community who worked in farming? Classmates in school? Do you remember any of the farms?

	J:	No. I remember a teacher whose home was in Hawthorne on a farm. We were talking and asking her question. And I said that I didn’t know anything about farming. She knew me but she was a little older. She said, “He was a city boy.” I didn’t know too much about the farming people.

	S:	What occupations did the fathers of your classmates have? What did they do?



Do you remember?



	J:	Yes. Yes. I remember. They worked in furniture stores, delivering furniture. Most of the furniture was delivered to the Whites but still, they were delivering







furniture. Others who were cooks, many of them worked at the university as cooks, at fraternity houses. They made far more money than teachers. Some of my school mates went into cooking—cooked in the frat houses. They didn’t have a degree but they were making the money.

	S:	Do you remember any kind community racial issues when you where growing up in school, are when you where in high school do you remember difficulties with either downtown or interacting at the theaters or anything?

	J:	Well, no. I don’t know, but I do know of one incident that where I was involved. I was going to town one afternoon, since you mentioned about race, I was walking—you know I was walking, cbeause I couldn’t ride anyway—and this White boy was just kicking me. I walked a little faster. He just kicked me and he said, “You want to fight?” I was afraid of Dad and I never did fight. And he said, “You want to fight?” and I never said anything at all. So, then there was a White lady driving a car; she looked and stopped. She said, “Stop it.” Then he kept on and kicked again. And he said “You want to fight?” and kicked again. She looked again and it kind of tickled her. Then she left and he kind of settled down. I didn’t know anything about fighting. Then he stopped. That was right on University Ave not far from Gainesville High School, used to be on University Avenue—right in that area, right in the area of NW 6th Street and University Avenue. I don’t know anything else like that.







	S:	Do you remember your father or mother telling you anything about how to behave when you were around the White folks in Alachua County or did you just have to learn by example?

	J:	You just noted how things were and what have you. S:	He didn’t give you any lessons about being careful?

J:  No, we just knew; we didn’t have any problems like that. And being out in the out lining areas late at night or—we just didn’t do that. We were at home. So, we just didn’t have that problem at all.

S:  When you where growing up or in the neighborhood, did you have a feeling you had a father who was special and was highly regarded by your community? Did you just think he was your dad and he worked as a teacher?

	J:	Well, we were fully aware that people respected him in terms of the school and also in religion and church activities. They had full respect for and we were aware of that too. So knowing that he was a principal of the school we made sure we didn’t get in any trouble or anything like that, but not only that, when I came back to Alachua County he hired me as a teacher at old Lincoln. And I made sure that, if a teacher did anything out of line, or anything like that I wasn’t a part of anything like that. And I just made sure not to ‘cause it would reflect and he didn’t ever tell me not to do anything like that; I just knew not to.

	S:	Because that was how you where raised and he was a role model of that kind of behavior.







	J:	And then, too, he was, in particular, respected because when he came to Gainesville, Negroes didn’t go further that the tenth grade. They didn’t receive a diploma; they just got a certificate of attendance and he was the one who carried the high school right on though to the 12th grade and the students received a diploma. Also many people from surrounding areas, some other counties, came into Gainesville in order to get a diploma. The Whites got a diploma but the Negroes got a certificate of attendance that they had completed the tenth grade. He was recognized for that in particular and also old Lincoln was the 2nd Negro school in the State of Florida that was accredited by the State Department of Education. He was very proud of that. He used to talk about how proud he was of that. But then, again they would say Gainesville was second. He would always say that Gainesville was 2nd—it wasn’t Jacksonville, Miami, West Palm Beach or Tampa—it was Gainesville. It was the 2nd one in the State of Florida but even the first wasn’t in a larger place; it was Palatka Central Academy was the first. It was a Professor Walker. He used to come by and help dad in getting ready to meet the accreditation standards for them. So in 1926, old Lincoln became an accredited school for Negroes by the State Department. So he was proud of that. And the people were proud of that too. They could go off to college and not take a special examination and in some cases not be accepted in some of the Negro colleges because the school was not accredited. So they respected him for that. That is why they respected him.







	S:	When I was asking you about racial inequalities, I also think back about the gender inequality in those days and what women were allowed to do. Do you remember any examples of women not being able to get certain jobs or were the girls in your school—?

	J:	Well, in Alachua County and many other counties in the State of Florida, in the teaching profession the principal was a man, then later they made a woman a principal even in the elementary school. Later they became principal and things like that. But they should have known better than that, that men might not have been the best leaders or the best administrators or had the best minds. A person as a female but didn’t mean that she didn’t have a good enough of a mind and couldn't think as well as a man because a man could think better because he was a man, so I do remember that part.

	S:	Well, now either with school or anything else, did you have special occasions or did you have dances, student dances?

	J:	Yes, junior and senior prom, twelfth grade involved and then later, for Lincoln anyway, they brought down to the tenth grade. Then they finally brought down to the ninth grade. The ninth grade had school dance—tenth graders had a part in it—the junior and senior prom. And it was on 5th Avenue—5th Avenue used to be called Seminary Street—it was in the Wabash Hall. That building is on Fifth Avenue very close to the intersection of Fifth Avenue and Tenth Street. Glover and Gill owned it. And upstairs—they had two stories—they would have their dances. And then downstairs was the grocery store and the sundry store.







	S:	Do you remember those occasions and was that a lot of fun?



	J:	Yes, because I was there, and I was a teenager; I attend the Junior and Senior prom.

	S:	Music?



	J:	Yes, an orchestra would come in from somewhere. Different men came in who knew how to blow a trumpet or a saxophone or what have you. When I worked at Alachua County Training School for one year—it’s now Mebane Middle School— they had what you called a piccolo. They had this for dances and after football games or for the holiday season or something like that.

	S.	I must ask now. Were you a good dancer?



	J.	Well… [Laughter] I guess I could make out. Anyway, my cousins and my sister who lived in Jacksonville, they taught us about dancing. They were younger, but they taught us boys about dancing. So, we learned how to dance from them. [Laughter]

	S:	Did you have a girlfriend in high school?



	J.	Well, yes. I had a girlfriend. Her name was Elizabeth Taylor. Well—I guess you can call her a good friend or a girlfriend, because back then we didn’t kiss or anything.

	S:	I know religion was important to your father, and he was respected in the church community. Did you go more often than on Sundays? Were there church activities anytime during the week?







	J:	My father was a steward and trustee and an officer in the church, so he might have attended meetings. But, later I also served as associate superintendent steward and an officer in the church, right here in Gainesville. I am not now but I was.

	S:	When you were in high school did you or anyone in your family have an accident or did you need go to the hospital—when women were ready to deliver a baby, did they have a midwife come in?

	J:	I can answer that. When my daughter Sheryle was born—she was born in 1955, there were segregation in the hospitals. Negroes would go to a separate building. That's were Sheryle was born. There was a separate building, an annex.

	S:	Do you remember how long your wife was in the hospital when she delivered your daughter?

	J:	About two days. Yes, about two days.



	S:	Do you remember while growing up if somebody needed a doctor, what they would do?

	J:	I was never very sickly. I just remember catching a cold. I remember having a cold and going to Dr. Ayers. Many people remember Dr. Banks, but then, the doctor was Dr. Ayers. He gave me medicine for that. However, we still could go to the White doctor. But, we patronized the Negro doctor more. Not during Dr. Banks time, but during Dr. Ayers time. Those doctors would visit the homes.

	S:	Do you remember any of your friends or family being patients in Alachua General Hospital?







	J:	My mother passed away, but not in Alachua General. It was a small so-called “Negro hospital.” I can't think of the name now. She passed away there, but she was served by a White doctor there. It was a big shock to the town because she passed away because of a technical error of anesthesia.No one sued or anything. It was one of the students, interns, or practicing doctors—an error. That was just one of those things.

	S:	How did you find out?



	J:	My father never told me. My uncle told me this. It was so shocking because she wasn’t in the bed sick or anything. She went to have something done. I don't know to this day what it was.

	S:	Then, it was sudden and unexpected.



	J:	It was like a person going in for a checkup and then you need to have this done and this happened.

	S:	Did you say you were seven? J:	Yes. I was seven.

	S:	That must have been awful.



	J:	My brother was nine and Vera was four.



	S:	Do you remember what you were told or how you dealt with it?



	J:	No. Nobody told us too much. I was grown when I found this out. It was just one of those things.







	S:	I think Alachua General opened with just a few beds in 1927, but the African American Community, for a long time, had wonderful midwives who would come to your home.

	J:	Yes. They had a lot of midwives back then. Three of Dad’s children were delivered by a midwife in Pensacola. Vera was the only one born in Gainesville. Again, they had a lot of midwives serving—having a mid-wife was a common thing.

	S:	What year did you graduate from high school? J:	1937. From Lincoln High School.

S:   What did you do right after graduation? J:   I went to Florida A and M for four years. S:  What was the experience like?

	J:	Well,I had the responsibility of having to learn how to cook. But also, my father’s home was in Quincy. I had an aunt there. She was a teacher, also. She would come go to summer school which was a common thing there during the summers to go to school and work on her teaching degree. It was common for teachers to come during the summers and work on their degrees. Many of the students from around Florida—not just from Gainesville—had not been to Tallahassee; they had not seen Tallahassee came to FAMU, and they didn't know much about the campus. When I went there, I knew as much about the campus, if not more, than any upperclassman because when I was around eleven years old, I was going to campus. My aunt was going to summer school. We would be in Quincy when my







Dad would go to summer school. That was a place for us to stay when he would go to summer school. I just knew all about the campus. I knew about the campus when they just had three brick buildings on the campus. I knew about it. I also knew before they had any pavement on the Florida A&M campus. I knew all about the campus from when I was a little boy. I had a great advantage. I just knew all about the campus.

	S:	Did you like College? Did you like more learning?



	J:	Yes. I enjoyed it. There, again, I was the youngest in the class. I was the youngest in the class in high school and the youngest in the class in college. They had a tendency to be a little older when they finish high school and now.

	S:	Did you meet your wife in college?



	J:	No. I had several wives. I met my first wife in Winter Haven. She was a practical nurse. I guess, like Dad, I didn't make a good choice. We got a divorce, the first wife. My second wife was a librarian at Buchholz High School. Then she taught at Duval. Then she retired as a librarian at Buchholz. She was very smart, and the department head for the library. She passed away in 2002 of Alzheimer’s [Disease]. She was very smart. She had Alzheimer’s for eleven years. I helped her for eleven years, and I was glad to do it. In 2004, I married Katie. It was kind of amusing in Katie’s case. My first job was in the Alachua County Training School. That was my first teaching job. Katie was in twelfth grade. I taught Katie and her sister, in seventh grade and I taught her brother in twelfth grade. Then, I went to Winter Haven Clearwater, and Williston. I left Alachua County for ten







years and then came back to Gainesville. I became a principal at Mebane High School. It was named after Professor Mebane; Professor Mebane was the principal when I was a teacher. And I went back to Alachua where I was a principal and Katie was on the faculty. She was married then and was a Williams. She got a divorce a short time later. I think she got a second divorce. At that time, I had no idea she would finally become Mrs. Jones.

	S:	When did you marry her?



	J:	I married her in 2004, two years later. I knew her and her sisters and brothers for a very long time.

	S:	How many children do you have?



	J:	I really have two. I have one and a stepson. S:	Do they live close by?

	J:	No. Leon lives in Ft. Lauderdale. And Cheryl lives in Philadelphia for the past two years; she lived in New York for a long, long time. She followed in her mother's footsteps and became a librarian. She was a librarian at the University of Missouri at St. Louis. Then she said she was tired of the books, and wanted to do something different. So, she went to New York and did so many different things. Neither one had any children. And neither one has been married.

	S:	I want to ask you about taking care of your wife for those eleven years. How difficult was it? I must have been sad for you.

	J:	Especially, in Alzheimer’s, where you can see her deteriorate. She had a problem but many did not know it for a while because at certain times she would







act all right then other times then she would be more forgetful. I would have to watch her and she wouldn’t clean herself. As time went on, I had to wash and bathe her. I would cook. We couldn’t go out to eat later on. She had a member of her sorority who helped us quite a bit and every Thursday, at 5:00, for a good two years, Dr. Mildred Hill-Lubin would bring dinner for me and her. She was a professor at the University of Florida. That would free me from cooking it. So, I didn't have to cook. I remember this well. Mildred and I go to the same church.

She's a very good friend. During this time, we found out who our real, genuine friends were. I could count them on my hand. There were about three of them and this included relatives. Some of them didn’t even call. And she had a number of half brothers and sisters and some even that lived in Alachua. But anyway, if she only knew who her real friends were. Mildred Hill was one—because she called or did anything she could help with. I found out a lot of things. If someone would just sit with her so I could just stretch out and sleep and rest a little bit— that kind of thing. Not anything laborious. I wouldn’t comment about it. She wouldn’t have known.

	S:	Did your wife die at home?



	J:	No. By then, she was in the hospital and passed away. She was in nursing homes two or three times for three or four days. The rest of the time, I kept her when I wasn’t satisfied with the nursing home meals and cleaning her up. Juanita was on the eighth floor at Shands. She didn't stay there that long. She didn’t live too much longer. I would go there in the mornings for breakfast. Then come







back. I would go home for lunch and dinner. And then come back. If she wasn't cleaned properly, I would clean her myself. They didn’t have anybody to clean her up or to help her eat. Now, they knew better than that. They looked surprised when I did this. I came in there one time and that is when I started coming in. I would help her to eat. No one was there to encourage her. So, I would go before each meal time. Her food was just on the table there. Nobody was there to get her going. Eventually, I told them that I would continue to take care of her at home. The main thing was keeping her clean. And feeding her. I enjoyed it. I watched her for eleven and on-half years to see her gradually decline. At first, you couldn't tell that something was wrong with her. And then other people— when she was way down before they could tell that she wasn’t talking all right and acting all right. And later on, and you are right there to see. That was quite an experience. The hard thing was watching it.

	S:	Did she have a doctor who followed her? J:	Yes. Dr. Goldblatt.

	S:	What was your favorite job? What part of being an educator did you like best?



	J:	It's hard to say. I liked teaching and being a principal. I retired as a supervisor of research and evaluation. I enjoyed working with statistics and research and things like that. I also enjoyed being an administrator but a lot of people don’t understand. Of course I understood it once I got into it. Now, it was a promotion from being a teacher to a principal. They thought that since I didn't have a class, I didn't have much to do, but I had more to do when I became a principal. I had







more responsibility. I was responsible for a lot of things. As a teacher, you could see certain students developing and could see certain ones—for me, anyway— many students, the smarter students would go to predominantly Negro schools and had high IQ and high ability. But I enjoyed seeing the average student or slightly above average and helping them get over little weakness and work out problems and what have you. These students just needed a little bit of help. If you could help them get over that hump, you could watch them grow. But if you have a teacher and the teacher doesn’t have the patience to give just little bit of help could affect a person his whole life. That extra help helped a lot of my students, anyway. Because even if they didn't become honor students, they would at least become average and improved because they could do better.

Some students who were slightly failing, you might say.



	S:	Tell me what you are currently interested in? Are you just enjoying retirement?



	J:	Yes, yard work. I do my own mowing the lawn, and edging and what have you. I taking a break right now, but in spring time and the fall and the rest of year, the grass is growing and what have you, but the other part is, I still like math and I participate even now with the tutorial program at the church in mathematics.

Yesterday, from six to seven, I was at the church working with some children and working on their Algebra and what have you. And taking the time, I could see a little snag or something they didn’t quit understand could hold them up or what have you—explain that to them and take the time to explain the details to them. Take the time. They would get over that and say, “Oh I understand that now,”







and they move on up until they run into another little snag, and if they do, I’m right there to help them to go on. This is just a little thing and they say that, oh, that’s just what that is and they move on up and go on. And that is what I enjoy, so I work with the tutorial program at the church. That’s the other part I do other than the house too. Sometimes the men folks think “I’m the man, so I shouldn’t do this and do that.” Well, I wash the dishes, and I believe in helping as part of my helping. She’ll do the cooking and I’ll wash the dishes, clean the carpet, and I’ll make the bed and put the clothes in the washing machine and I’ll iron the clothes too. Anyway that I can help, I think I should. I don’t believe, I’m the man so I shouldn’t do this. No, I should or we should work together and I do and I believe in that too.

		S:	Did you have anyone in your family, or where you involved in the military at all? J:		Oh, now that you mention that part, no, I never served in the Army, but I got two calls. Not when I was in college; I had finished college. I was too young to

register. I was a teacher when I registered. I got two calls. The first call I was surprised the second one I wasn’t. And the first call I went to Camp Blanding and the physical was a very thorough and all men had all their clothes off and the physical was fine—no problem. And then he got to the commanding chief and he was talking to someone else and he would hand the phone to him and he would give it quick glance and he stamped, “Accepted.” I was looking at them as I was approaching and when he got to me the official handed him my papers, he was talking to somebody and he wasn’t paying attention and he had his hand up and







he looked at me then looked back down at the papers and looked back at me. He said “Aw boy, you too little; you go home and grow some more. You see I wasn’t weighing a hundred pounds when I finished college. I weigh more now than I’ve ever weighed right now, but anyway they never told me how much I had to weigh. But I know the fellas they were talking about the packs on their back and this and that, they had to carry, and they weighed fifty pounds and I wasn’t even weighing a hundred. And if I get a call, I don’t even know if I can carry all of that I don’t even weigh a hundred, the commander in chief would say, “Aw, shucks, boy, you too little. You go home grow and grow some more.” And two years later they decide I grew a lot and they sent for me again. But the next time, the doctors wrote all over the papers, “Under minimum weight.” “Under minimum weight” was underscored; that is what I think it was. And so, the second time—it wasn’t a surprise the first time.

	S:	Where you disappointed or were you happy?



	J:	Well, the first time, I was ready to be accepted and what have you and the second go round, I just knew right off. I said since they turned me down before, sure enough they had it all over the papers “Under minimum weight.” Then so I was turned down. So by the way the second time the sergeant said, “Come over and get your clothes.” And he had nothing—and he was a Negro, of course, and “You know we can’t work together,” joking! He showed me where my clothes were located. He had nothing to whatever to do with it, and he looked at me and said, “Why in the hell don’t you eat?” The other part in the first go round, we had







these classification cards you had to carry with you at all times so that they know that you had your exams and whatever. So I had a category of 4F and I thought about when I was turned down. All of those who were turned down were all in a little group—and before that time, go over here and meet with this doctor. Well, there would be a certain group of them that were in the 4F. So, we waited and we waited. And finally a sergeant came in, and I have thought about how he said it: “All of you rejectees, come over here.” I remember I carried the 4F card but the reason was that friends—female friends would ask why I wasn’t in the Army. Why are you in 4F? Well, the 4F group that I was in—many of them couldn’t read, you know. And then, some of them had some health problems. And that is why they were not accepted. So, they were thinking about the health. “Oh, you are 4F.” I would say, “Now, wait here just one minute. This is why I am 4F.” I remember that one. “This is why I am in 4F.”

	S:	Was your father a small man? J:	No.

	S:	Was your brother larger than you are?



	J:	About two inches taller than I am. He was heavier but not fat



	S:	You’ve lived your whole life as the small one in the group, haven’t you?



	J:	Vera was smaller, but she’s picked up a little extra weight, and Lydia picked up little but I think I was the smallest in the group.

	S:	Tell me if there are stories that you would like to include that I haven’t asked you?







	J:	No, well I couldn’t think of anything anyway. Well, I do have this one thing. This is my philosophy on this. Well, these football coaches and players and what have you, some of them are smart, but not all of them—even when I was at Florida A&M. But they can really play football. They are not really college material. But they can really play football. And they get in all kinds of trouble. They just happen to be good in football, and they form all kinds of habits. And what have you. And even when they get a job their habits follow them. I remember this one fella—he has passed away now. I used to be a principal at Howard High in Ocala. And I had to get him straight. He thought he could do anything because he said one or two things and turned to his assistant and said, “Come on.” I said, “Wait a minute.” He knew. I said, “You just jump up and do like that. I don’t know what you used to do but you can’t do that here.” He sat down. Coaches, it is good that they have influence, but sometimes they have bad habits, and they are going to run things, and they are going to do this and that. So, I just had to get him straight. So now, I think of—I might be saying the wrong thing—when I think about coaches like Urban Meyers. And he’s a good coach which is fine. But I believe sometimes they have more influence and even bigger salaries than the president. And many times I see Florida playing, I hope Florida will win. But when the team gets home, sometimes people carry it entirely too far. When I see things, when Spurrier was here, cars—you explain it to me, not what Spurrier thinks about the car. What about other games? Or as soon as they lose a game, there is so much carrying on. They carry on too much about football. And then,







they think they can run your school. As a principal, I was not the coach. When I was in Winter Haven, a coach would come in late and that was a regular thing. We talked to him—I was an assistant principal—and the next day he came late. They have the wrong attitude. I just wish that they made all football players— Black or White, it doesn’t make any difference—meet all the standard requirements. The thing is these coaches are in a good position to encourage good habits. Well, I just happened to think about this.

	S:	Well, thank you so very much for all of your time. [End of interview]





	Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, July 26, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 16, 2019