AAHP 297; Welch, Harris, and Welch; Page 100





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 297 J.W. Welch, Matthis Harris, Arago Welch African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Justin Dunnavant, Ryan Morini, Marna Weston on March 19, 2013 3 hours, 5 minutes | 107 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 297

Interviewee: J.W. Welch, Matthis Harris, Arago Welch Interviewers: Justin Dunnavant, Ryan Morini, Marna Weston Date: March 19, 2013



	W:	And the theory is that public servants are not allowed to strike. So, we staged the first walk-out in the nation right here in Alachua County.

	H:	What act was that? What act, that forbid public—



	W:	Oh, oh. Well, to equalize the salary. You see, because they had two salary schedules.

	H:	Oh, no, I know that. I’m saying what was the name of the federal legislation that prevented it?

	W:	I don’t know.



	H:	I don’t know it. Don’t worry. I’ll look up what it is.



	MW:	Did you work with people from other parts of the state?



	W:	Yes. What had happened was this: we would do things to improve civil rights and whatnot, equality for Blacks. And we would go to other communities to organize them.

	MW:	I meant particular teachers, because my principal, I don’t know if you might know him from elementary school; U.B. Kinsey, in Palm Beach County.

	W:	In what county?



	MW:	Palm Beach County. W:	No, no, no.

	MW:	C. Spencer Pompeii?



	W:	I knew the people down at Campbell in Daytona, and the school in Ocala. MW:	Fessenden?

	W:	Fessenden, you know it. Oh, yeah.





	D:	Did you know Harry T. Moore by any chance? W:	Who was that?

	D:	Harry T. Moore?



	W:	Yeah, yeah, yeah. I knew Moore. Yeah.



	H:	Now, Harry T. Moore is one of my relatives. D:	Oh really?

	H:	Yeah. The Moores come out of Live Oak, and my father is from Live Oak.



Mickle’s wife is from Live Oak. My father and Mickle’s father are cousins. So, that’s the association with the Moores. When my father died, he lived Mims. He lived about four or five blocks from where that house was blown up. Because I didn’t know the connection, I actually thought it was my father’s wife’s family because they lived there. But it wasn’t. Harry is my father’s family. And that goes back to what you were talking about, the salaries and the double scale? Because that’s what Harry was fighting for.

	MW:	He was the Executive Teacher’s Union Secretary, I think. H:	Yeah he had been the head of the NAAC—yeah.

	MW:	He was in NAACP. H:	Yeah he had been.

	MW:	But the teacher’s union too, wasn’t he?



	H:	Yeah he was both of them. But at the time when he was killed, I think he was out of the NAACP and he was doing the thing for the union, or the other way around, I’m not sure. J, when did they do that thing down in Mims, compared to Alachua County?





	W:	Mims?



	H:	Because they filed a lawsuit. [Interruption in interview]

	W:	What was the guy’ name who was the attorney for the NAACP in Jacksonville?



He was the sharpest—. Well, he was sharp.



	H:	Do you know who the NAACP attorney was from Jacksonville? MW:	During what time period?

	W:	About [19]60.



	H:	Oh, so he was in the middle of the Civil Rights? W:	Anyway—

	MW:	I’ve got a book on Jacksonville Civil Rights in the drawer right over there. Ah, the internet, that magical place. [Laughter] I want to say John Duke. [Laughter]

	H:	I know John Duke. But I was trying to think— [Telephone rings]

	D:	It’s not Parker, is it? W:	What was his name? D:	Richard Parker?

	W:	No. His last name was Johnson, wasn’t it? It’s either Harry or Henry. The reason I mentioned this guy is because of the fact that we had a judge here, a White judge, and he was a very prejudiced type of guy. We had a group of youngsters who was charged for invasion of private property, because we went to a restaurant that they didn’t want to serve us, and they were arrested. And then they appeared before Judge MacDonald after they were booked. We went to the





court and this Black lawyer, he represented the kids, so he got up and began to give his defense. When he did, MacDonald said, “I’m not going to prosecute those kids.” He said, “But attorney So-and-so-and-so, I admire your ability and the sharpness in your intellect.” Because the guy was smart, he was really sharp! He was the smartest Black lawyer I ever seen in my life.

	D:	Was it Earl Johnson?



	W:	That’s him! That’s him, that’s him! [Laughter] Boy, he was smart. When MacDonald complimented a Black? Now, that’s something. [Laughter] Yeah, that’s him, that’s him.

	M:	And MacDonald was a judge from where, was that Alachua County? W:	Alachua County.

	M:	Okay, so he was right here. W:	Yeah. [Laughter]

	D:	So did most of the lawyers come from bigger cities like Jacksonville? W:	Mhmm.

	D:	And they would come to Gainesville to work on cases?



	W:	Well the NAACP, they’d take an assigned lawyer to different areas. And so Earl was our lawyer here. But that guy was really sharp, really sharp. I just liked to hear him talk.

	AW:	I think he was sharper than Johnnie Cochran. [Laughter] W:	Cochran?

	AW:	Yeah.





	W:	Well I’ll tell you what was Cochran’s claim to fame: he would always inject the race issue into things where it didn’t even fly. Because take the O.J. Simpson case. I mean, that didn’t have any place, the O.J. Simpson case. But, he injected that, and as a result he won the case. Had I been a member of the American Bar, I wouldn’t have recognized Cochran.

	AW:	Wasn’t the detective the one who initiated it, though?



	W:	Yes. No, no, no, no. Because you find Johnnie Cochran, he represented all types of criminals. Blacks, when they wanted to make sure that they were going to win their case, they got Cochran. If they could afford him. And so, he announced, after the O.J. Simpson case, that he wasn’t going to practice criminal defense anymore. He was going to only do civil. And I can speak for myself. Had I successfully graduated from law school, there are cases that I would not have accepted. I would just turn them down.

	AW:	Why?



	W:	Because of the nature of the case. I wouldn’t have took the O.J. Simpson case as a lawyer. I’d tell him, “No.”

	AW:	You know up here, a lot of lawyer knows that they clients is really lying. And they are there to defend them to the best of their ability, and this is what they were doing.

	W:	Yeah. Whether they right or wrong.



	AW:	Yeah, right. I mean, I feel like O.J. Simpson had something to do with it. He’s not going to go and tell the jury that he feel like that. He going do all he can to get him off the hook.





	D:	A lot of people did. That’s why Johnnie Cochran became so popular after the case! [Laughter]

	AW:	Yeah. We got a lawyer here now, Robert Rush. You got the money, he’ll help you walk. [Laughter] I haven’t seen him yet lose a case.

	M:	So, you went to law school, didn’t you? You did tell me that. Indiana University, is that right?

	W:	Yeah.



	M:	Were you intending to be a lawyer? How’d that happen where you end up teaching?

	W:	Yeah, yeah, yeah. My intention was to be a teacher. I became a teacher as a sort of backup. I’ll tell you why: because, you see, I went to school at the expense of the government, Public Law 346—the G.I. Bill. I didn’t have enough time in to completely go through law school, so I took up teaching as a thing to be on the side here. I’d come out and teach for a period of time, then I’d go back to law school. But I got into teaching, and it became so fascinating to me until I just forgot about the law. [Laughter] And remained in teaching. And begun then preparing kids for college. This is my main thing now. Because you take, for example, I had a White boy, his name was David Givens, when I was teaching down at Newberry High School. He came in one day, he said, “Mr. Welch, I want to talk with you.” I said, “Come on back to my office.” So he came back. He said, “I’m David Givens, and I’m in Mr. Tom Maple’s class.” Tom Maple was a White teacher. And Tom Maple, in terms of degrees in high education, he was much more educated than I because he had two master’s. But he was the guy that





didn’t teach anything. He would take his kids every day, every period, to the library with him. Nothing to do, just go to the library to kill time. And he was giving the librarian a hard time—who was Black. And I told him, “You go to the principal on him.” And so, sure enough, when they—and by the way, the principal had been bragging about this guy. I’ll tell you why: because every time he got a spare moment, he’d be in the principle’s face, kissing it. [Laughter] You see? And of course, because me, I never was a kisser, not even in the Service, or in [inaudible 11:56]. Never! [Laughter] Unh-uh!

	AW:	Well, I guess that’s where I get it from you. Because I don’t care what job I have, I don’t play that. [Laughter] Even when I was working in the university, I never did play that. Back in the days when I was working here, they wanted to unionize the campus. And management don’t support or have no part of it, anticipating anything to try to encourage people to be unionized. And I did it. Because I could jeopardize the job; I didn’t care. The director, he called me in the office and told me he was going to reprimand me. I still didn’t stop. Yeah.

	W:	Well that seems like what’s happened in the Alachua County schools when they organized the kindergarten program? And they organized it on a segregated basis. And so, we met with CORE. And I suggested to them there, I said, “Well, let’s go down and picket, and demonstrate against the school board.” And sure enough, when I went down there—Tiny Talbot was the superintendent, and two other people standing out on the front porch—and I was carrying a sign, “Tiny Too Tiny For the Job.” And I’m a teacher! I’m carrying a sign, “Tiny Too Tiny for the Job.” [Laughter] And I didn’t care; I didn’t have no fear of him. None





whatsoever. And so they, what they did, they cancelled the program, and then finally reorganized it on an integrated basis as a result of that.

	D:	Did the thought ever cross your mind to leave Florida and go somewhere else?



You ever get tired of it?



	W:	No. No. But because you see, that would’ve been evading. [Laughter] D:	It’s called going AWOL. [Laughter]

	AW:	You know, back in the time where we did participate in the Civil Rights, Black men, the year that we really got heated up when we started going in the restaurants and things, and picket them. And the biggest one we had was the Humpty Dumpty. That was one hard one to break. And all of a sudden, we got together and organized different groups.

	W:	Hey, let me tell about the Humpty Dumpty: it was a drive-in restaurant. And so, they would refuse to serve us on the curb. So, I organized a convoy of automobiles, about maybe ten or twelve or more. I send three in. Soon as the proprietor come out and ask you to leave, those three, well, then they left. And then I sent three more. [Laughter] You see? So not to violate the law. And then, this guy, we got him so upset that he broke down and boo-hoo cried. [Laughter] He said, “Why don’t y’all just leave me alone?” And we broke him down though; he finally opened up.

	AW:	Yeah, you left something out there, though: when we did that, we had a whole group to go in and sit in.

	W:	Yeah, yeah, yeah.



	AW:	Boy that really hurt him! [Laughter]





	W:	We had him in both places. AW:	Yep.

	W:	We had them sitting in and knocked on the thing there.



	D:	Did you call in media, too? Or was it just the students? Would you call on media as well, to report and all that?

	AW:	Yeah, and it was at noontime when the business time was at the height.



	W:	Well, I was Chairman of Direct Action for both CORE and NAACP, simultaneous.



Same time for both organizations. I worked in both of them.



	AW:	Now, the difference in the CORE and NAACP: NAACP, you had to go to the national office to let them know and get you prepared for making a move. For CORE, we can get a committee right then, and go and do action. Let the organization know later.

	W:	Yeah, well I suggested to them about the kindergarten school—I suggest to them, let’s go and picket. So later, we left our meeting at CORE and went over to NAACP, and told them about it, and then we went on down. And one of the more fascinating followers I had was a lady, her husband was a dentist.

	AW:	Cosby.



	W:	No, not Cosby. He was older than Cosby—but Cosby was us too. M:	Parker? Is it Parker, or was he—?

	W:	What was her name? She was about fifty years of age. See now, most of my followers were youngsters; but with this woman, she was way up in her fifties. And she got a thrill out of being with us too, carrying picket signs, and all kind of—and that just tickled the devil out of me; she would do that at her age.





[Laughter] And as far as teachers were concerned, as far as that time, Black teachers—have I mentioned doing the settlement of membership?

	AW:	Unh-uh.



	W:	That’s a no-no! “No, I don’t want a membership, I don’t want to join; I can’t join.



But I’ll tell you what: I’ll give you a contribution—but don’t put my name on nothing!” [Laughter]

	AW:	But you know, back in my time when we did participate in Civil Rights demonstration, it got to the point, I didn’t care about dying. I feel like I was fighting for a good cause. And the time when they arrested Dr. King over there in St. Augustine, we was on our way over there. And they turned us around. And I didn’t care. And then we went to Madison, one of our guys, he got caught in there; they shot his car with buckshot. [Laughter]

	W:	That’s Mike Gyser. Are you familiar with him, Mike Gyser? AW:	You haven’t met him yet?

	D:	Unh-uh.



	W:	Oh well, Mike Gyser, he came to all of the city and county commission meetings, and he’s a pretty radical guy. And I like the guy except for one thing, now: he advocates the legalization of drugs, and I’m opposed to that. But other than that, I like him. And he was trying to get me to go with him down to Madison, Florida, one of the most racist areas there was in the nation! I said, “Nope! I’m not going down there!” [Laughter] So, he went down there anyway. And boy, they shot more bullet holes in his car! [Laughter] And I told him, I said, “Boy, you crazy! [Laughter] I’m not going to no Madison!”





	AW:	They didn’t hit him, though, did they? Hit the car.



	W:	No, but they made a sieve out of his car! [Laughter] M:	What year was that, do you know?

	AW:	Oh, this was back in the [19]60s. W:	Yeah.

	AW:	This was when Civil Right demonstrations, race started to get going. M:	Okay.

	D:	Was there a lot of action in Perry, Florida, as well? AW:	Yes. Yeah.

	W:	Now, when they mention about the desegregation of public schools in Alachua County, they usually just mention—what the boy’ name? Joel Buchanan, and Reverend Wright’s daughter, and there’s another girl, her last name’s Williams; I can’t think of her first name. But actually—

	AW:	Rosa?



	W:	Huh? No. No, no, no, no, not Rosa. Actually, when the court handed down the decision ordering the school to desegregate, there were four students. It was all three peoples I mentioned, and there was my boy who was a kindergarten kid. And he was the very first Black student to attend Kirby Smith. And for a period of time, he was the only Black student there. And he’s now fifty-four years of age, soon fifty-five.

	M:	What’s his name?



	W:	Rodney. Rodney Renee Welch. M:	What was that like for you?





	W:	Well, it was all right except for one thing: now, he ran into one teacher that gave him a hard time. And I went out to come talk with that teacher. [Laughter] Because then, this new math, newborn math came into being—modern math.

And so, I didn’t know the procedure of modern math, but I could always arrive at the answers and things, or to follow them. And so I went to see her, and I said, “Look here: now, I’m a teacher myself. I don’t know the techniques or nothing of modern math, but I can always teach my boy the answer things.” So she told me finally, “Mr. Welch, don’t you bother me. You let us handle that.” And so my boy, he graduated from P.K. Yonge with honors. He never earned a C in a class in his life.

	H:	And you all have diverted to what area here? [Laughter]



	M:	Talking about his son integrating Kirby Smith Elementary. Were you worried about his safety or anything going to school?

	W:	No, no, no. I didn’t worry about nobody bothering him.



	M:	Did you do anything about making sure he was accompanied on his way to school or anything like that? Or he just kind of went. and it was okay?

	W:	No. we took him to school each day. M:	Okay.

	W:	Yeah.



	H:	Yeah, what you’ve got to remember though, when the schools were integrated— like in the case like the school where his child was, there might be custodians, there might be people take care of the yard; but there were people around who saw what was going on. So, if something was going on that he needed to be





contacted, he didn’t have to depend on administration; there were other people— because he was a well-known person in the community—that they would know how to get ahold of him and let them know that there’s a problem. So, most people around Gainesville, if you talked to them during that time, they were not worried about things that might happen. Because we had some good guns, too. [Laughter]

	W:	You mention about guns, I was involved in a lawsuit and the jury wanted to find out what my holdings were. [Laughter] They wanted to know, did I have a lot of money in my bank account? Did I own property? Do I have a gun collection? You know what I told them? I said, “I have a private arsenal.” [Laughter] I said, “I own a private arsenal.” And I do, even today. [Laughter] Yeah. Yeah.

	D:	I don’t want to incriminate anybody, but how did you come about getting these weapons? I’m guessing the White guns sellers weren’t selling guns to you all.

	H:	Oh, no, you could buy guns. All you needed was the money. W:	No, that’s not it.

H:  All you needed was the money, man. There was no problem. No, no, no. What’s that, a carrier license? Oh, okay. I need one of those, J. I need to talk to the man that you talked to there.

	D:	We’re going to have y’all check them at the door before you come in next time. [Laughter]

	W:	If you’ve ever been arrested for anything other than a traffic violation, you will never get one of these.





	H:	Oh, I have gun permits in California, all up the yahoo. But I don’t have one for Florida, I need one for Florida so I can legally go down to see—what that guy’s name, that trial down there?

	D:	Oh, Trayvon.



	H:	Yeah, Trayvon. I need to be able to go down there, but I need to be right when I go down there. You know? I don’t want to go down there shaky, you know? [Laughter] His fate might be my fate if I go down there like that! Those good ol’ boys in that county, they don’t know how to act. So you got to go down there right! But no, there was no problem getting guns. My grandparents, they had all kinds of guns. But see, they were farmers. So they had guns. But around Gainesville, all kind of people had guns; that was no big deal. The problem is, after you shoot somebody, what happen next? You see? That would be the problem. Now you might end up in Starke; and the White man, after he shoot you, he just got rid of one of they problems in the community. So, that’s the difference; what came afterwards. But it wasn’t no problem having guns—and getting guns. Because people wanted to sell they guns, just like now.

	W:	Oh, they sell them now, boy, like— H:	Oh hotcakes, hotcakes.

	AW:	Well, there is another thing too. Back in the days, the Black policemen did not get any kind of recognition. And there are some that I was thinking about seeking out, and bring up some of the things from them. Because when you go down to the sheriff’s office, you don’t see anything about any of the Black police. I know





the police department was the same thing: one of them, they got a building named after him, and that’s all.

H:   That Sergeant Lewis?



AW: Yeah. That’s the old library. H:  Yeah, I saw it the other day. W:  He didn’t deserve that.

AW:  I know why you say that. [Laughter]



W:  He didn’t deserve that. See, they only made him a police officer because of the fact that he was a military police officer from Camp Blanding, and he worked in this area. And so they named him to the police force.

H:   Okay, what about Coleman?



	W:	Because he and I almost had a confrontation one time, and it was about my wife. H:	Oh, y’all liked the same woman?

	W:	No, I wanted to go down to Tampa to visit my grandparents, and my wife didn’t want to go. And so, we was sitting on Fifth Avenue, and we got into an argument about this. And someone hollered, “Here come Sergeant Lewis.” I said, “Damn Sergeant Lewis!” So he wanted my card, and said, “Now, I don’t play.” I think he knew I didn’t play, because I carried a gun, too! [Laughter]

	AW:	Yeah, but the rest of them, like Walter Coleman, Bre Kinder; those guys didn’t get any kind of recognition. Walter Coleman, he was a detective.

	W:	He was good.



	AW:	Yeah. He was one of the best in solving crimes and doing investigation. But you don’t see anything about him.





	M:	Was he respected in the community? AW:	Yeah.

	H:	All those guys were respected in the community. The White police couldn’t go into the community and find out anything.

	W:	Oh, nothing! [Laughter] Yeah.



	H:	They couldn’t even go in there, as a matter of fact!



	W:	Look here, look here: you take, there’s a lot of areas, that were all-Black areas? If you the police, a White police officer, dare you to take your face in there after dark. They wouldn’t go. They wouldn’t go in the Reds Quarters.

	AW:	Porters Quarters.



	W:	They didn’t go into Porters, but they didn’t go into—it’s out there off the—. Well anyway, it was several there they wouldn’t go into.

	H:	Now just the other day, J, I was over there by the school board, and I was two blocks down—you know where you took me to somebody’s house back there? In that little thing where the car was, we went back there to get a car out of there, start a car one day?

	W:	I forgot.



H:  Arago, Arago; go down University Avenue, go past the school board. Two blocks down, two blocks over towards Sugar Hill: we went over there to do something to somebody’s car. Start the car, pull the car out, or something or the other.

Anyway, right there, I was in there the other day, by dusk-dark; seven police cars. Seven. I’m looking, I’m saying, “What the hell is going on here? There must be a serious crime in progress here!” Just a bunch of police cars there. And the





whole community was out. Your cousin or somebody lives in that little development in there. It’s a little development up in there; it’s a horseshoe, it’s got a fence around it. But I’m looking at this, and I’m saying—up in there where my sister’s ex-husband’ family live, close to that.

	W:	Oh, I know what you talking about now.



	H:	Yeah! But anyway, why do you send seven—now, let me explain something to you: in the old days, like we talking about Sgt. Lewis, or we talking about Skeet Coleman, Officer Coleman? One cop go out there by hisself. One! Probably walking, or on a damn bicycle, believe it or not! Okay? But they had the respect of the community. “I want to know what happened here. What’s going on here?” And I’m sure he’d have to think about things, how he’d want to report them.

Because he didn’t want to incriminate a whole bunch of people, but he wanted to get to the bud of what the nexus of what the problem was. Because they would love to have a whole bunch of people down there in the jail. But they didn’t work like that. Now, there’s another guy we talk about that was an officer, but he wasn’t a police officer, he was a truancy officer. His name was Skeet Coleman. This is another guy that needs to be recognized, okay? This guy was a truancy officer. He looked for kids who were not going to school, and he was damn good.

	AW:	Yes, he was.



	H:	If they heard that he was on the street, they were like a bunch of cockroaches when you turned the light on in a room. [Laughter] Okay? The kids and the damn parents. Because the parents knew they were doing the wrong thing. So this guy, he did his job. He did his job. That’s another guy that needs to be recognized. He





worked with the schools, and he worked with the police. Because you needed both of them in order to make something happen there.

	AW:	Back in the days when Coleman and Kinder—



	H:	By the way, it’s two different Colemans we talking about: Skeet Coleman is not the same as Officer Coleman with Alachua County School District, Board of Education.

	D:	Okay.



	AW:	I had the privilege of working with those guys, because I was planning to be a Deputy Sheriff myself. And on the weekend, I worked very close with them. And I was very familiar with a lot of the things that they’d done. And Walter Coleman, he’s the one really inspired me. Because when school got out, he would allow me to get out there and direct the traffic, and help people, doing the school zone.

The first time I’d ever seen a Black officer stop a White person coming through the school zone, he went and stopped them. He said, “Arago, come on. Get in the car, let’s go.” And we went and stopped them. And the White man, first thing he said: “Nigger, what you doing stopping me?” And the next thing you know, he got on the radio and called another White cop named Walt. And then he told Walt to write him a ticket. He didn’t like that.

	W:	For example, there was the area called Red’s Quarters; this quarters, this was out on North Main Street, beginning at Sixteenth Avenue, northeast. Red’s Quarters.





	M:	Well we got a—this is an old master’s thesis, this is from the [19]30s. So, it’s got Red’s Quarters—yeah, okay, so right up here on Main. So, this is Main coming up here.

	W:	Okay, you know what? White officer wouldn’t dare stick his face in Red’s Quarters after dark. And there was another area called Black Bottom. It went out to Kincaid Road, back in there; the White police officer wouldn’t dare stick his face in there after dark. Yeah. Then another place, further down North Main, along where the Cadillac and [inaudible 33:45] company is now, in that area, that was called the “Pistol.” White police officer didn’t dare to stick his face in that area after dark. [Laughter] And another thing, they had a policy that if a Black guy were to take and disarm a White police officer and whip him, they wouldn’t arrest him. A guy named Johnny Johnson, he took the officer’s pistol, and whipped him. And they didn’t arrest him. [Laughter] Unh-uh!

	H:	J, tell them about the—because this is something that’s interesting, I don’t know if you all know anything about this—the policy involving White police and Black police. There were different sets of rules and things, and the Black officers were very limited in terms of what they could actually do. Because I was too young, I don’t all of the what do you call it—J would know all the things surrounding that. J would know. But they also, until World War II, J, they didn’t have any Black policemen in Gainesville. After World War II, these guys had been military police. And had some experience with guns, firearms, and stuff in the military. So when they came out—because people became more affluent, and Gainesville as a city started to develop then. They had people here, but the city probably wasn’t that





well-developed. But after World War II, a lot started going on. It’s hard to focus on this, but Fifth Avenue was the focus of the Black community.

	W:	Yes.



	H:	And all the way down to I think it was Pleasant Street, and then down to Thirteenth, Black people lived on those streets. Now, University was kind of like the White street, but it was a spillover. Like, the social life was on Fifth Avenue; the business stuff, you had to go to University, okay? So, let’s say you had to go to the utility company, or you had to go shopping at a major grocery store or something? You had Winn Dixie down there, so that was the way things were kind of set up. Now you had small businesses, but they didn’t rival the White businesses at all.

	W:	Another thing you should take down: in the all-Black school, Lincoln High School, we used to produce high school football teams would’ve given the Gators hell.

	M:	Really?



	W:	Yeah. Yeah. Because you take, for example, in our conferences, we would win the state championship and hold it for five or six years. Nobody defeated us.

	AW:	Back in those days, Lincoln High School was very recognized in the White community. Even the band; they were very outstanding. When they had their Homecoming parade, you’d see Whites cheering just as much as the Black was.

	W:	Well, if you take Chestnut the First; he was one of the first coaches at Lincoln High School football team. He was a mortician here. Well, he’s Chestnut the Third’s grandfather. He used to lead the Lincoln High School parade beginning on Thirteenth Street, coming up University Avenue, it would go all the way out to





Eastside, and he’d be riding a White horse with his big cowboy hat on, old man Chestnut. He was really something, really recognized.

	D:	Were many of these people football players in the past that then became coaches, or were they coaches before then and moved to Gainesville?

	W:	Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Well, you take, now, T.B. MacPherson, one of the best coaches ever in the state of Florida: he wasn’t a PE man. He was a Social Studies teacher. But he was a good football player, actually, himself. And so then, he produced good teams as a result. But a lot of people thought that he was a PE man. Because in high school, I never had a course in Physical Education. We didn’t have a PE department. I’m going to tell you about the difference in Gainesville High School and Lincoln High School—the original Lincoln High School, and the original Gainesville High School. They both opened in 1923. Lincoln High School didn’t have a library, didn’t have a cafeteria, and in the science department they had one microscope for examining specimens.

Gainesville High School had a lunch room, had a library, microscope for every student in any science class. So, the schools, they were separate, but not— [Laughter]

	D:	Plessy, Plessy Schools. [Laughter]



	AW:	Now, Lincoln High School, where you know it is now, that’s not the original Lincoln. The original Lincoln is old A. Quinn Jones. That’s where the school is now.





	H:	But J, how did Lincoln come into existence? Because I read something somewhere—and it might be wrong—that Lincoln was the first Black high school in the state of Florida to go to twelfth grade?

	W:	First twelfth grade. Mm-mm, no.



	H:	No? I saw that somewhere, and that was shocking to me. Because as big as it was—we know south Florida wasn’t that developed, though.

	W:	It was one of the most powerful, though. I mean, you take for example, I was just telling about the football team; we used to have football teams that would hold the championship for—

	H:	That would beat professional teams; I know about that. W:	And they would’ve given Gators hell! [Laughter]

	H:	No, not only that; I saw something where it said that the teams at Lincoln High School, they would beat college teams regularly.

	W:	Yeah!



	H:	Yeah, that was amazing when I read that.



	AW:	I read some time ago where Lincoln High School was the first Black high school in the county.

	H:	Oh, okay.



	AW:	There was none around, so everyone had to be bussed in.



	H:	No, the catch was this: they’d graduate students from the twelfth grade. But you got to think about something: Florida was not developed in the South until after World War II. So, if you’d look at the Black schools, we talking about north Florida. And so, the biggest school would be Jacksonville, probably.





	W:	Yeah, Stanton.



	H:	Yeah. And so, we didn’t have any real competition other than that, you know?



And given that we were in Alachua County with the University of Florida here, I’m sure there was a lot of knowledge about education in this environment here. So, they knew what to do; it was a question of whether they wanted to do it, or were going to do it, for the Black people here in the county.

	W:	And of course, Matthis, there’s another thing you forgot to mention, and that is this: as far as the school board was concerned, for a long period of time, the school had no concern about the quality of education that was going on in the Black schools. But fortunately, you had a few highly dedicated teachers.

	H:	Yes, yes.



	W:	Because you could take right now, for example, T.B. Macpherson; boy, he made a big impression on my life.

	AW:	Me too.



	W:	Daphne Duval, she made a big impression on my life. Franklin Jones, even though he was science department and whatnot was limited, big impression. They did the best with what they had.

	H:	I even saw Rayfield McGhee, how hard he worked with what he had, the limited resources that we had.

	W:	Let me say about McGhee, now I have the utmost respect for McGhee as a PhD. I’ll tell you why: he wasn’t the smartest guy in the world. McGhee wasn’t. But he had persistence. He earned his doctorate out here at the University of Florida,





while the others earned those from Nova. And I had no respect for Nova for a long time. [Laughter] For a long time. No respect for Nova at all.

	H:	You know, we had physics on TV that Rayfield taught for the University of Florida. All the kids, when I graduated from high school, they taught physics and chemistry on TV; all the schools. And they had a manual that was produced by the University of Florida, and I think each one of us had a manual. And then they had a teacher in the classroom, and Dr. McGhee was the person that was in the classroom there, and I forgot what the guy’s name was who was teaching the course. But then what would happen is that they would have a certain amount of time we would look at the TV, and then that would go off, and then the classroom teacher would take up the discussion after that. So, Rayfield was—like I say, we were doing things like—he was teaching us about propulsion, and rockets.

Because Kennedy was coming into its own at that time, you know? So, we had a kid that blew up the damn classroom with a rocket. [Laughter]

	W:	Oh yeah, that was my cousin. [Laughter]



	H:	The rocket was igniting in the classroom! Burned up the whole damn classroom! [Laughter]

	W:	I’m trying to think of what his name is. But I’m going to tell you something: now,



J.C. Rawls, y’all mentioned about him. But J.C. Rawls at one time was associated, was known as an instructor. And among White students, Black students, if they were teasing one another, they feared J.C. [Laughter]

	H:	I don’t even know how to record this! I didn’t know about this! [Laughter] W:	Before, J.C. stand there, looking tough.





	H:	Yeah! Yeah, yeah! I told you! You need to interview this guy on that kind of stuff, okay? [Laughter] If you went to see Dr. Rawls, he’s a very modest man in his appearance, and in his demeanor of himself. Okay? But in that classroom, you in trouble. You come across this here? [Laughter] I’m telling you, your life changes every day!

	AW:	You know now, I was a school bus driver. And all of my years of driving, I always had White students to pick up in the west end. This particular year, during the summer, they put me in an all-Black community. The White kids, I would say, “One of y’all, sit down in your seat,” and that was it. They sat down. But the first summer day of picking up the Black kids, I did the same technique. Them kids looked at me like I didn’t say nothing to them! So one day, I was around in the community, and I heard the type of language that they parents use. So, that Monday I did the same thing. I told them, I say, “Y’all sit your goddamn asses down!” And then you can hear a pin fall. [Laughter] You aren’t supposed to use that kind of language to kids. And so I told Dr. Rawls, I said, “Dr. Rawls, I made a boo-boo this morning.” He said, “Mr. Welch, what you did?” I say, “The kids was very rowdy, and I asked them to sit down, and I just told them, ‘Will you sit your goddamn asses down?’” He throw his arm around me, he say, “Mr. Welch, that’s the only language they understand.” [Laughter] He said, “I’ll take care of it, don’t worry about it.” Didn’t hear no more about it, either.

	H:	That was in his capacity as principal at what school was he in at that time? AW:	Idlewild.





	H:	He was principle at Idlewild, also. So, teaching at Nova, Idlewild, then assistant principal, I think, over at the new Lincoln. But he had a number of different positions and things. Oh, and classroom teaching. Even when he was assistant principal, I think it was he taught a class.

	AW:	Yeah. I had that class, too.



	H:	Yeah. Which was very unusual, because most principals did not teach classes in those days. But he taught a class. And I want to think that John Dukes, when he was principal, taught a class also.

	AW:	Mhmm. Yeah.



	H:	Yeah. I know Daphne Duval taught a class when she was dean of students. So, that was something that was very unusual. But these people were extremely qualified, and the classes they were teaching were advanced students, and college-bound, and advanced courses like maybe calculus or the equivalent of an AP course for seniors or something. And another thing I’ve got to tell you, these teachers did not just teach content. These teachers taught decorum. They taught the affective domain.

	W:	Matthis, excuse me for interrupting, but many people have a misconception when you use the term “social studies.” When you use that term, they think you talking about history. They think that’s all. Social studies involves nine subject areas! All the courses involving the interaction of human beings fall under the category of social studies. Yeah.

	H:	Also, you didn’t talk about the –isms courses that we had in those days. We don’t have them now. See, the Soviet Union was our competition as a country. So we





had some courses called—I think they were called, “The –isms,” if I’m not mistaken. Americanism, Communism, Socialism, I think those three things.

	W:	P.A.D. Problems in American Democracy.



	H:	Yeah, Problems in American Democracy. Those courses—I don’t know what these kids get now. I’ve taught some of the classes, but the level to which—well let me put it this way: they don’t seem to understand what the hell is going on with government. Forget the different levels, forget the local, the state, the federal. But they don’t even know that there’s three branches of government, you know? They’re lost!

	AW:	General Civics, that we used to take, started leading up to that. H:	Yeah, Civics too.

	W:	Well let me say this: I have a firm conviction and belief that P.A.D. ought to be a required course in every high school. Because that is the last opportunity that you have of touching this kid before he cross the threshold out there in the real life. It ought to be required. And very few schools require it. Now, when I was at Newberry, we was required to have it.

	H:	J, something you haven’t talked to him about: Mr. Welch worked in the rural districts. And the rural schools were quite different from the schools in the city. They were teaching the same courses, but the problems that they had to deal with were quite different. Because you’ve got kids—well, I don’t think Alachua County had it, but you had districts where the kids didn’t go to school continuously for nine months. The kids were on split.





	W:	Matthis, did you attend school at any time in Alachua County for nine months in a school year?

	H:	Yeah, yeah. All the time.



	W:	Not me! [Laughter] No, no, no! H:	That was before my day.

	W:	We would attend only eight months. In other words, the White kids, they went from September until June; we went from September until May. And May was the harvest season, and we were expected to go out there and harvest them crops. And then we’d be out of school when the White kids still in school.

	AW:	Now see, this is where on Wednesday, all these schools used to get out on Wednesday, because of the harvest crop. I think the high school and the middle school would get out, but now they have phased that out.

	H:	That was the union though, Arago. That wasn’t because of that. See, there was actually school districts around the state that they didn’t—like what J was talking about: they didn’t have nine months of school. They had a split session. You would go to school, then you would stop, and then you’d go back.

	W:	Yeah, that’s right. Some had it split.



	AW:	Well I got to go, I forgot I have to go pick up that baby before school. H:	Oh, okay. Well, I’ll stay with J.

	D:	I can take you down. AW:	I can find my way.

	D:	All right. [Laughter]





	AW:	You lead my nose in one time, I’ll lead my nose back out. [Laughter] I got to go pick up my baby; that’s what she keeps calling me about.

	D:	All right, good meeting you. AW:	Nice meeting you.

	D:	Nice seeing you again, I hope we’ll meet again. AW:	We’ll see you again.

	H:	It was nice seeing you, Mr. Welch. [Laughter] I’m not going to let them keep you too long in one setting today, J.

	W:	Okay.



	M:	We’ll come back. You can come back any time, just let us know. H:	No, you let him know when you want him.

	M:	All right, easy. Easy, yeah. Yeah and we would like to maybe look at that master’s thesis from the [19]30s with you sometime, because that was—where is it?

	D:	Did he take it with him?



	M:	Well, if he did, that’s fine. But anyway, it was just a sociology student here, a White guy, but he got some help. A couple people led him around in [19]32 and [19]37, and he was doing surveys of the houses to look at the Black quality of life, I guess, was sort of what it was supposed to be. And so he talked to a lot of people, talks about some of the people in the communities, drew up maps of where the neighborhoods were where he thought that there—

	H:	Oh, this was the document that you all had? D;	Mhmm.





	M:	Yeah.



	H:	I saw it floating around.



	M:	Oh, we can probably print off another copy.



	H:	Okay. That sounds like it was a take-off on the Swedish— D:	Oh, Gunther?

	H:	Gunnar, yeah. Myrdal. That sound like he may have gotten the idea. Like if you look at the dates on there and then look at Myrdal’s—because Myrdal’s was the most complete study. You remember that one don’t you? The Swede that did, Gunnar Myrdal.

	M:	American Dilemma I think it was.



	H:	Yeah, America Dilemma, yeah. Now of course, I learned about that in school. Dr.



Rawls made sure we knew that. [Laughter]



	M:	So, that raises a question: what did you have to do as a teacher when you had textbooks that weren’t covering some of those topics? How did you—

	W:	Well, as I said, many people have a misconception about the teaching of social studies. They think that it is just one course. And so, I really don’t want to just, say, teach from a textbook. I taught life, in general, in every area that I could think of. I wasn’t confined to a textbook. I never was the type of teacher that sat behind a desk teaching the class. I’m walking around, circling around my students. In fact, I have a thing that they gave me, and it says, “To him, who teaches the classroom,” and so on. But, I had policies that were different from many other teachers. We could not enforce so-called Blackism, and they had such behaviors I called “Blackisms,” that I would not tolerate. Like for example,





your probably see this in the classroom today. You wouldn’t walk in my door with your pants hanging off your butt. You just wouldn’t walk in my classroom. Unh- uh. That’d be a no-no. And just like, for example, there was a period of time where it was popular among Black kids, boys especially, would walk or sit in the classroom with a hat on their head. Now, when you walked in my classroom, you took your hat off. And so, many of them went to the principal to complain about my restrictions on them. And they say, “Well, if that’s Mr. Welch’s policy, that’s his policy.” And so, that’s it. And again, I’m saying that my instruction was geared toward preparation for college. I’m here teaching kids. And I guess I probably did more lecturing and demonstration in front of a class than anything else. That’s why I couldn’t sit behind a desk.

	H:	We had a guy named—what was Jones’ name? Bear Jones, what was his real name? I forgot.

	W:	Oh yeah, Robert. H:	Robert Jones?

	W:	Mhmm.



	H:	Okay. This guy’s name was Jones, and he would stand—you’d have to be inside Lincoln to see this. The Lincoln that’s over there, the middle school, it was big.

And students could go and get lost and do things, right? But this guy stood at the crossroads of one of the hallways. That was his permanent duty, his classroom was close to it. Speaking of what he’s talking about, like pants hanging off and stuff, students liked to—because we had sunlight coming in through these things in the school, students liked to put on they shades in the school. He had a rule,





there was no shades in the school, and no hats in the school. This guy would be standing there, and you come bebopping—because we had these lockers that went down the center, so traffic be going down this way, and traffic would come this way. Right? This guy would reach over and snatch the shades off your face. And the hat off your face. [Laughter] Now, you got to know this guy; this guy was a football coach. This guy had to be about two and change, so you weren’t going to reach over there, talk about giving them back, okay? [Laughter] Then, this other guy, T.B. MacPherson that was the gym teacher, okay? He was the head of the PE Department. T.B. MacPherson would stand right here, and you were coming out of the locker room, and he had a rule. You had to have your towel, your washcloth, and your soap. And you had to take a bath when you got through with PE. So if you come out too fast, or if you come out and he wanted to inspect you, he would grab you up in the collar like this right here, take a sniff, and then he would say some unkind words to you about going back in there. [Laughter] And you would be going in there to take that shower. And then, the guys that would come out like sweating, you could still see the sweat popping off of them? Prime candidates for going back in there. [Laughter] And he would basically say, “I’m going put my foot in your ass if you don’t get back in there and take a shower.” But that was the rules. And I look at it today—because I’ve taught all over the country. I’ve taught in California, New York, Maryland, Ohio, down here in Florida, what else? Some other places—up in Massachusetts. And I look at students come off of the PE field, and they just go to class like that, sweat popping off them; no rules about sanitation and stuff. And then you look at the





young people and their attitudes about just health in general, and hygiene, it leaves a lot to be desired. But they don’t seem to have firm rules and stuff today like they had then. But kids would be groomed properly in that school. See, and that was another thing: a lot of these kids come from homes that were not the most stable homes. So the teachers that I ran into in Lincoln High School, they had a tradition of trying to be the best of the schools in the county. But all of the schools that were in competition: A.L. Mebane out in Newberry, down in Archer— all the schools were in competition, but everyone wanted to be Lincoln. But Lincoln had a team of people that really were concerned about the kids doing something with their life. By the way, they had a big cooperative education program. It wasn’t just academic. They had automotive, they had bricklaying, they had an agriculture program, they had a sewing program. What’s the teacher’ name that taught those kids how to make suits and stuff? Mr. Mickle.

	W:	Mhmm.



	H:	Mr. Mickle, the judge’s father, he was a teacher also. By the way, he’s in his eighties now I think also.

	W:	No, he’s older than that.



	H:	He’s older? He might be in his nineties. That man still makes suits, I understand. Okay? But he taught students. He had a student that became very well financially as a result of his abilities. His name was Timothy Waters, he was from Gainesville. But that young man went down to Tampa—I think he’s dead now— but that man went down to St. Petersburg or Tampa or something, and he a bunch of damn businesses, and he was very successful. But he could make a





suit in no time flat. But he studied under the tutelage of Mr. Mickle. Now, there were others, but he was just one of the ones I remember because he was in my class.

	W:	Matthis, one of my claims to fame when I was at Lincoln High School as a student, I was the best-dressed student on the campus. By the time I fourteen years of age until I reached the age of forty-four, you saw me with a suit on. It was tailored for me, until I was forty-four. I just begun buying suits out of the store at age forty-four. And I believed in, if you were going to be a teacher, look like a teacher. And I had a briefcase and all those kinds of thing, every day. So one day I was at Newberry, and I was standing out at the edge of the sidewalk. And a little White boy came from a middle school down from us, and the principal and I were standing there together. And he walked up to us, and didn’t ask him, he said, “Sir, are you the principal of this school?” [Laughter] And Jim Pritchett was the principal, so I asked Jim, I said, “Did you hear what he just asked me?” [Laughter]

	H:	Now, that’s the family that was into trucking and stuff, wasn’t it? W:	Mhmm.

	H:	Yeah. We had some families around here, some of them were big contributors, and probably still are. That Pritchett name that he mentioned, I just remembered seeing it on trucks and things. That was one of those prominent families. There’s another family out there in Newberry that was involved with the construction of roads around Gainesville. Do you know who that is, J?

	W:	What?





	H:	The family that was building roads around Gainesville. W:	Oh, yeah.

	H:	They were very involved with the football team and stuff.



	W:	Okay, yes. Woman that owned Dell’s Quarters? That was her adopted son.



	H:	Okay. You could tell these people had some money because, do you know anything about asphalt?

	D:	Not too much.



	H:	Asphalt costs—it’s by the foot. But if you do a road or something, and you don’t have to do it too far, it’s going to be a million dollars. But these people—I’ve seen their place out in Newberry there—they had an asphalt road on their farm. Yeah. This was years ago.

	W:	I know what you talking about.



	H:	With that Ben Hill stadium over there, I know they made a lot of good contributions to that doggone thing. Yeah.

	W:	Matthis, when I was assigned to go to Newberry, I was very reluctant about going, because that used to be one of the most racist places there was.

	H:	Where was that? W:	Newberry.

	H:	Oh, yeah.



	W:	And in fact, there is an area there they call Lynch Hammock, in Newberry. But you know what? After working there and getting involved, I loved the place. And I was one of the most prominently known teachers on faculty staff, because I was the only Black male that taught courses there for twelve years in high school. The





only Black. And so, they knew me when they didn’t know the principal, even. [Laughter]

	D:	I had a question about that. So, you came out of Lincoln University. Where did your teachers come from at Lincoln? Where did they get their education?

	W:	Oh, the vast majority of the teachers at Lincoln held doctorate degrees, and they graduated from the New England schools.

	D:	They weren’t from Gainesville originally? W:	No.

	H:	No, no, no, you mixing it up now. We talking about Lincoln University. D:	Oh, okay. You’re talking about Lincoln University.

	H:	Was that your question?



	D:	No, your professors at Lincoln High School.



	H:	Yeah, he wanted to know Lincoln High School.



W:  Oh, they was just local people. A lot of them came from Quincy because that’s where Prof Jones came from, that Quincy area. And that’s a terrible area, too!

H:   Oh that’s a very terrible area! [Laughter] I’ve been up there. The Dues came out of there. Those people that we were talking about, the Dues? They came out of Quincy.

W:  Now, there were some real dedicated people like Thomas MacPherson and whatnot. Now, he was born right here in Gainesville. And Ms. Duval and the Duval family, they were right here in Gainesville.

H:  But, I think your question is like—something that you don’t know about, there was Florida Normal, there was Bethune-Cookman, there was Florida A&M, and there





was Ed Waters College. Those were the places that turned out a lot of local people. But like Mr. Welch, he went to Indiana and studied, in addition to—now, he never went to school here. You went up to Lincoln, right, J?

	W:	Mhmm.



	H:	But we had people like that also. Then we had a lot of other people that came from other places to Gainesville because they knew that there was work here. Like for instance, my godmother was a lady named Ms. Fanny Thomas. She had what was called a boarding house or rooming house. And a lot of the teachers lived there, at her house. Like for instance, there was a lady there, Ernestine Banks. Ms. Banks was from Hawthorne, I think, but she didn’t go home every day. She lived at Fanny Thomas’s house. And there were a number of teachers that lived there at that house. It was on 6th Avenue, one block off of 5th Avenue. J knows more about that than I do.

	W:	Now, I may be prejudiced about this, but I always felt, for example, that most of our Black colleges were mediocre. And that includes Florida A&M, because they emphasized two things: band and football team. The academic excellence, they didn’t emphasize that to my estimation at all; that’s the reason why I didn’t want to go to school nowhere in Florida.

	H:	That was what they had. That’s what I was speaking about. Now, like when I was at Florida A&M, they had Dr. Eton. They had—a lot of my teachers were PhDs when I was there, but that changed over the years. Because it was FAMC, originally; Florida A&M College. But it became Florida A&M University.

	W:	Under Gray.





	H:	Gray, yeah.



	W:	Matthis, you aware of the fact that Gray came to FAMU from Florida Normal in St. Augustine.

	H:	Uhn-uh, I didn’t know that.



	W:	Yes, he was president there, and then he went to A&M. And he really elevated A&M, there is no doubt about that; I mean, Gray did.

	H:	He wasn’t there when I was, but I do know of him because I think his son, I know his son.

	W:	Oh yeah, his son was a congressman. H:	Right, Congressman Gray.

	W:	And this guy rose in ranks to the extent that he was the chairman of the most powerful committee there is in the Congress. And I could never understand why they would reach the highest level in the House of Representatives and none of them would seek office in the Senate. Because Gray should have gone to the Senate.

	H:	Well the problem is, you couldn’t get elected to the Senate. That’s a statewide office, J.

	W:	No, I’m only saying that we have got two senators in all.



	H:	Right, but that’s a statewide office. They would be elected from districts; the district is different.

	W:	Yes, but see, now if a person is very prominent, and you reach this level—getting on something else; excuse me, I’m rambling maybe.

	H:	No, that’s okay.





	W:	Well, just this for example: you find a lot of Blacks who went to the military service, and they are allowed to reach the rank maybe of lieutenant colonel or major, and then for some reason or another, the military tends to get rid of them.

	H:	Yeah, you got to go back again.



	W:	Because, you take for example, now, my sister’s boy, Little J—we call him “Little J.” Now, he was lieutenant colonel in the Air Force Reserve. And the last thing he told me, he said, “Uncle J,” he said, “I’m going make general.” And I believed him, because he was innately smart. And I believed him, but then he got killed by his own nephew.

	H:	Yeah. But going back to your question, though, let’s go to whatshisname in Massachusetts, what was that guy’s name? Brook. Senator Brook.

	W:	Yeah Brook.



	H:	Senator Brook was from a state that’s very liberal, and his wife was Italian and she spoke Italian. So, she could work with the Italian community. The Black community—because I lived in Massachusetts, I went to school in Harvard—was less than three percent of the population of the state. I think it was 0.3 percent of the state, probably. So, he was not elected by Black people. If you look at where these districts are—going to what he’s talking about, these states—these guys didn’t have a hope and a prayer. Because these guys weren’t going to roll over and let you become—even today, how many Black senators have you had? You had one from Chicago, if I’m not mistaken, I think that was a woman. You had the one from Massachusetts, you had the guy in Virginia there that I think became governor; but a statewide office is completely different. You got to have a





community that is really not a racist community in order to get a senator. So I think that’s why—

	W:	Matthis, you take for example like Cynthia Chestnut. I have utmost respect for her, I think she one of the smartest I ever known in my life. And she’s been on the city commission, the county commission, and the state legislature. And the guy that defeated her when she sought reelection in the state—he was defeated here recently—but I was expecting Cynthia, was hoping one day, that she was thinking about the U.S. Senate. And I still got utmost respect for her; she a smart gal.

	H:	But you got to have more than that, though. Let me give you an example, this girl that’s the congresswoman from our district over in Jacksonville?

	W:	Oh, yeah.



	H:	What’s her name?



	W:	Yeah I know her, but now, she doesn’t approach the—



	H:	No, no, no. What I’m going to tell you, though, is that this girl, she didn’t strike me as the kind of person that would do well in that position. She had the access to money though, because I thought seriously about running for that district.

	D:	Corrine Brown?



	H:	Yeah, Brown. She was my classmate. I know her very well. In terms of people that I know that I would say could handle the job? We had a lot of them, because I was in the political science department. So I knew people. I had another one down in south Florida, Meeks was my classmate also. Not the son; the mother.

But this girl, she had access to the money, I don’t know why or how.





	W:	I can tell you why.



	H:	Well, let me tell you something else before we go there. [Laughter] And then, we going go there. But the lieutenant governor who’s a Republican, she came out the other day. You know she’s gone, right?

	W:	Oh yeah, that’s right.



	H:	Yeah, and it had something to do with money. But go ahead J; I didn’t want to cut you off. But I just wanted to drop that one in there to sweeten the pot. [Laughter]

	W:	When Whites put you in office, and they can use you, they will protect and keep you there in office. And that’s Brown.

	H:	Okay, Corrine Brown?



	W:	Yeah. And they will keep this district where she will have and keep her in there. It would be just like if—well, you take Tom Coward, my good brother and friend.

But now, Tom Coward not the smartest guy in the world, but he has persistence. [Laughter] You see? And he would try things. Now, he was the county commissioner seventeen years. White people kept him in the county commission. Until you take, like, Chuck now, is the county commissioner right now. Now, Chuck isn’t all that smart. [Laughter] No, no. Unh-uh. But we got a group of people now—

	H:	We have this instrument right here, we don’t want to get sued. [Laughter] D:	We can black that part out. [Laughter]

	W:	Well, you got a lot of controversial issues going on in Alachua County right now. H:	Oh I know, I know.

	W:	And if you cater to those special interests, then you can stay here.





	D:	I got an interview with a man, Ray Rickman, who said he was chief of staff with John Conyers back in the [19]70s. And he mentioned the fact that because there weren’t many Black representatives throughout the country, each Black representative had a certain portion of the country they would take. So he said Conyers would take, I believe, Florida and a couple other states. And then, they had a congressman from California that would take the west coast. And so, if you had a problem in those states close to his district, he would take on your cases. Did that ever come up in any of the work that you all did? That you all would have to contact a congressman from another state?

	H:	Well, we had one congressman for years, and his name was Adam Clayton Powell. And we had another one out in Chicago, and I can’t think of his name, J.

	W:	Old Powell, that’s my boy. [Laughter]



	H:	What was the first congressman? Because he was from Chicago. W:	Diggs.

	H:	Diggs?



	W:	Diggs.



	H:	Okay. So, we had Powell, and we had Diggs, and that was it for the whole country. So all the Black people, if they needed some help, those are the people they contacted. So, that probably was a system that they instituted later on that kind of spread it out. But we had no people in Washington we could go to. It wasn’t until after the Civil Rights Acts, where we got the apportionment and stuff, where we started getting Black congressmen. And I forgot, I think its twenty-five or something now, it might be thirty-five.





	W:	But Matthis, Powell was a very arrogant person. Oh that boy, he was very arrogant. But now, he had Black political power to just perpetuate and keep him in office. Yeah.

	H:	Yeah. But I’ve seen him a number of times.



	MW:	Y’all are truly Black. [Laughter] Are we still talking? I’m thinking, oh my gosh!



Where are we now? [Laughter]



	H:	Powell was a fascinating person. His power came from— W:	His father.

	H:	Right, and that church. But he had all of Harlem, and it was zoned just for him.



And I think the new guy, they’ve thrown in some of the Bronx now with his district, so they’ve weakened that district now. What’s his name? Rangel. This is Charlie Rangel’s last—

	W:	Yeah he’s in trouble now too.



	H:	Oh, Charlie is not a problem, he’ll come out of that. Because all of them are dirty there in Congress. [Laughter] So they ain’t going let too much happen to him, okay? Other than they took him out of the head of committee, they made him beg forgiveness and stuff. But he’s going to retire and be a man with money. He ain’t got to do nothing, he been there thirty years, hasn’t he?

	W:	Well now, Powell, they already recalled him from office. But he ended up—Black politics, put him right back there anyway, after they recalled him.

	H:	Yeah, yeah, yeah. Because what happened was that—it was really a lynching. It was a bunch of White congressmen that—because Powell was doing the same





thing they were doing. And they felt what he just said: that he was arrogant and so forth. But his constituents loved him!

	W:	Oh, yeah.



	H:	Because I lived in New York during that time. And they put him right back in! I knew he was going back in, there was no question about that. You know? And he looked out for his people, he really did. You go to his church on a Sunday, there was standing room only. And there were people outside of the church. Did you know about the thing where some woman was trying to have him served with a subpoena? And in New York, you couldn’t serve subpoenas on Sunday. So Powell could go to New York on Sundays, but by twelve o’clock that night he had to be out of New York. [Laughter] So this man didn’t even have to show up in his district but once a week to keep his job, okay? [Laughter] That’s a fact; you go back and you look. Because I forgot what it was; some White boys put somebody up to some kind of trick, and they wanted to get him in court. And they could never get him in court. So, this was part of a whatdoyoucallit, to get him. And never good, never good.

	W:	But Matthis, what do you thing about this, now? You remember, now, this this girl now that just resigned the other day. She was selected to run against Corrine Brown because they wanted to get Corrine Brown out.

	H:	Oh, I didn’t know about all that.



	W:	Yeah, she ran, but Corrine defeated her. H:	Yeah, I didn’t know that.

	W:	But she was specially chosen by Republicans to get Corrine out.





	H:	Mhmm, yeah. Well speaking of that, have you been following the Republican Party today? Because it is like a shambles. I’m half-informed though, I hope they keep on fighting! [Laughter] I’ve never seen such crazy people in all my life.

	W:	But Matthis, they trying to cater to you, boy. [Laughter]



	H:	You know, I was thinking about they got five million dollars, ten million, they going to spend the—. I was thinking about going out there and trying to get one of them jobs, J. See if I could be the one to spread a little money around and tell them what they need to be doing. I was thinking seriously about that.

	D:	I was wondering, what was your level of awareness of international politics that were going on around—I guess for you, even before the [19]50s and [19]60s. Where did you kind of get that information that you heard about international issues?

	H:	You got to realize you talking to a veteran. D;	Right.

	H:	So he was overseas. D:	Oh, okay.

	W:	Now hear me out, I have to say something else: when I was in college—this was in Arkansas—and I had an instructor, he was from Haiti. And his father was the

U.N. representative from Haiti. And as a result, this guy was very much interested in international affairs. And I was one of the oldest students in the class, because I’d been in the Army and all that sort of thing. And the kids in the class would always ask me, “Mr. Welch, what are you going talk about today?” [Inaudible 1:20:17] away from teachers. [Laughter] And the thing about it was, his





native language was French. And I had a conversational knowledge of French myself, because I had spent quite a bit of time in France. I said, “Now, Dr.

Beaugard is not going to teach part of that today.” [Laughter] “So you better be thankful for what this man is going be teaching tomorrow!” [Laughter] Because he thought that there was one definition for anything that he explained to you, and when he asked you a question, like on a test, he wants you to get it back to him just like it was.

	D:	Verbatim?



W:  Yeah. I memorized a course one summer, and was one of the first students to make an A out that class. He forced me to memorize it. Because he wanted it back there like he gave it to you! [Laughter]

H:  And when I was in school, we had—Dr. Rawls, I know, initiated this—but you had current events on Mondays.

W:   I had it on Friday.



	H:	Oh, yeah. So you had to come in with something, and sometimes you might be told that it had to be an international article. But you could never pick up what was called “local trash.” So it would be a article with national or international implications. That was Dr. Rawls’s class. Now I should tell you, the first school I went to was not Florida A&M. I went to school at the City College in New York. And we had all kinds of international students there. But my mother’s building was this building right over here, the next building which was the student union. We had lots of guests, people that would come to our house, that were internationals. So I was exposed to internationals as a very young kid; many,





many countries that the university had students from, because those people didn’t have any place to go when the Christmas holidays came and the university was closed down.

	W:	Matthis, excuse me, I need to interrupt you for one minute. H:	Go ahead.

	W:	Now, you mentioned about the City College in New York. H:	Mhmm.

	W:	Now that’s a part of the actual public school system, and it’s free.



	H:	No, it wasn’t free when I was there. But at some point I think it was free.



	W:	Free. And I could never understand why students, instead of staying there and pursuing two years free, they would prefer coming down here to go to Bethune- Cookman, or Florida A&M, or Florida Normal.

	H:	I think it had to do with the—there’s a connection.



	W:	It demonstrates to me that they [inaudible 1:23:09] a quality education.



	H:	No, let me share something else: when I went to school there, there were very few Black students at the City College, even at that time, and I was there in the [19]60s.

	W:	Yeah, because they coming down here. [Laughter]



	H:	Yeah, I think it was that, I think it was that. But the City College, even though it was in Harlem technically, it catered to Jewish students. Most of the students I went to school with. And the night school was bigger than the day school at City College. So, those students were working during the day, and then they would go to school in the evening. It was an unbelievable environment in terms of difficulty





and stuff, and toughness of the courses. A lot of teachers had European backgrounds. But there was also Brooklyn College, which was not as highly rated as City College.

	D:	Yeah, my grandma was from Brooklyn.



	H:	Then there was Hunter College that was further downtown, that was primarily for women in the early days. But the Black students from New York City could not get into many of those schools in the city, believe it or not, because of the academics. The level was very, very high. I was going to tell you about something else, but I forgot where I was going. I forgot what I was going tell you.

	M:	It happens.



	D:	International—



	H:	Oh, when I went to school at Florida A&M, one of my teachers was Dr. Howard.



Now, I forgot where Dr. Howard came from. But Dr. Howard had been with USAID. At that time they didn’t let the Blacks into the State Department. Blacks could only serve in aid, USAID. USAID was United States Information Agency I, think. And they were a sister agency to the State Department.

	D:	The U.S. Agency for International Development or something like that, yeah. H:	Right. He had worked in Africa. So, he—

	D:	Were you calling me?



	MW:	No, but I’ve been to two full other meetings! [Laughter] W:	You better check it, now. [Laughter]

	H:	I told him that they had their hands full when this man came in. [Laughter] But yeah, he had had that international experience. So in our political science





classes, we got it. We had a lot of that. And I was really interested in going to work at the—as a matter of fact, I was interviewed by the state department before I graduated from Florida A&M. And I had offers to go either to AID or to go either to the State Department. But I was really more interested in the Civil Rights stuff that was going on than I was in international at the time. Because it was such a small group. And I knew how some of those people had been treated, too. So I wasn’t that interested in going at the time. Later on, interestingly enough, I was interviewed by the CIA, also. [Laughter] So I had a lot of interesting offers.

	MW:	Are you COINTELPRO? [Laughter]



	H:	But we had a lot to do with international stuff when I was in high school, because of our veterans. A lot of our veterans knew a lot about—like for instance, when I was in high school, Gene Brown. He was a cook at one of these frat houses on campus. But he had served in Korea. So he would talk to us during the summer when we were working with him about his experiences in Korea. But I had a number of veterans that I talked to over the years. My primary mentor was a teacher here at the University of Florida. He had been a lieutenant commander on a submarine in the Pacific. And so, I grew up under his tutelage. We’d sit and talk about the world. One of the things he did is that he brought refugees out of these various countries with that submarine. But we had long talks about other places in the world.

	W:	Matthis, now who do you think should have been the logical successor to Dr. Martin Luther King after he was assassinated? They made Shuttlesworth. But Shuttlesworth wasn’t the person. I’m going tell you—





	H:	I don’t think Abernathy was man enough to do it.



	W:	That’s right. Well I’m going tell you who it should have been! H:	Who?

	W:	But you interrupted me. That Jesse. H:	Oh yeah.

	W:	Jesse Jackson. H:	Yeah.

	W:	I saw him at the Rainbow Coalition. But now, Jesse Jackson should have succeeded Martin Luther King as our national leader. I will say that any time.

	H:	But it was a fight, wasn’t it J? Between the guy who became mayor of Atlanta, Jesse, and Abernathy?

	MW:	Julian Bond?



	H:	Yeah, Julian Bond. W:	Yeah, Bond, yeah.

	H:	I think the organization was in crisis after Dr. King died, too. So, there were a lot of other things going on. But I was involved with SNCC. One of my contemporaries was Stokely Carmichael. And I actually knew him personally. We had him come to my university. The guy who was mayor of Washington D.C., he was also one of my contemporaries and I knew him very well because I spent time at Howard.

	MW:	Marion Barry?



	H:	Yeah, Marion Barry. I spent time at Howard. So I knew all of these guys, and I knew all of the organizations from the inside out, because I was involved with





CORE and SNCC, primarily. But I went to Atlanta and talked to James Farmer. I also grew up listening to Malcolm X in New York, because I lived in New York and went to City College. And Malcolm X every Saturday would give a lecture out there on a ladder at the corner of Lenox and 125th Street. So I spent many a day down there listening to him, too. But a lot of these people I knew of, and their philosophies and things, firsthand.

	MW:	Did you have times with a lot of the CORE people that were here in Florida? H:	Oh, yeah.

	W:	CORE?



	MW:	Yes, sir.



	H:	Yeah. He did too.



	W:	In Gainesville, yes. Here, Dr. Jones, he was a member of the faculty at the University of Florida. In fact, he was fired from his job because of his participation in the Civil Rights Movement—by Dr. Tigert. Tigert was the president here then.

	MW:	What was his first name? H:	Marshall.

	W:	Marshall.



	MW:	Oh, Marshall Jones. Okay, yeah, we know Dr. Jones. So, he was in CORE. H:	You know Judy Brown?

	MW:	Judy Benninger Brown. Dan Harmeling.



	W:	Yeah, Harmelings, yeah. The Harmeling brothers? Yes. H:	The White—

	D:	Mr. Welch was in CORE and in NAACP at the same time.





	MW:	Okay, so you were involved with a double ticket.



	W:	I was the chairman of direct action for both organizations.



	MW:	Really? So, the Dunnellon and the Ocala movements in the early [19]60s? W:	Right, right, right, right.

	MW:	Well, you the man we been looking for! [Laughter] W:	We went down to organize and help.

	MW:	Okay. So, how did CORE end up in Ocala?



	W:	Now I don’t know about CORE, because I’ll tell you this: here, Dr. Thomas A. Wright came to us in Gainesville from St. Augustine. His wife Affie was an active member of the Civil Rights Movement there, and lost her job as a result of it. So when she came here, she was a silent member. She would attend all our meetings, but she never participated in any way, anything. And as far as an active teacher is concerned, you looking at him.

	MW:	Do you mind if I take a few pictures while you talk?



	W:	Okay. And so, I was the only active teacher involved with the Civil Rights Movement.

	MW:	So, what were you teaching people? I don’t mean just in the classroom, but I’m assuming you were teaching the Movement as well.

	W:	Well, constitutional rights and all those kinds of things.



	MW:	Okay, take us through a constitutional rights class for CORE; how did that work? W:	What’s that?





	MW:	Could you explain to us what you would tell people about their constitutional rights relative to a CORE activity or something? If you were going to go out and do a protest, would you talk to them ahead of time about their rights?

	W:	Well, let me see, I’ll think a minute. Because I’m thinking about some of my experiences about things. I was telling him the other day about, I attended Indiana University. I took Constitutional Law under an instructor who came from Mississippi. And on May 17, 1954, when they decided the Brown decision, he came that day and he explained the ramifications of it. And he stretched it out to the extent, he said, “Now, this may mean that a Black man would have access to and be able to marry White women,” and things of that sort. And that hurt him so bad that he broke down and started crying, and dismissed the class for that day. Another time at Indiana, they were discussing—what’s the thing when you have certain things attached to a contract to sell a house which prohibit—

	MW:	Counsel? Race Counsel? H:	No, not a counsel.

	W:	A legal term.



	H:	It’s like a contract.



	MW:	Mhmm, but you can’t sell it to a Black person, is what you’re saying.



	H:	Mhmm. New York was like that, by the way. New York and Los Angeles had those.

	W:	Yeah, that’s how Harlem came into being. [Laughter] And so, they were discussing this racial business, because we were talking about Oakland Housing and all that sort of thing. And one of the White students in class made the





comment, “Who in the hell would want to build a fifty-thousand dollar house and have a—” he wouldn’t say ‘a nigger.’ [Laughter] –“just to build a shack?” Well, my presence prevented him from—. [Laughter] See because, when I went there as a law student, I was the only Black freshman in the class. [Laughter] And another thing about me is this: never would I go in anybody’s class and look for the rear and sit back there; I’m going to sit in front down here, down front.

	D:	Were you the first Black student at the law school at Indiana University? W:	Indiana? There were some that came after.

	H:	I don’t think he was the first, though.



	W:	I was the first one in that law class of 1953. I was the only Black. H:	The word is “convent,” and I can’t think of what—

	W:	I’m trying to think of it, too! [Laughter] H:	Yeah, what comes before that?

	MW:	Convent?



	H:	Yeah, some kind of convent. Basically what it was is like a gentleman’s agreement. And that’s where that redline is.

	W:	It wasn’t a gentleman’s agreement; this was actually a part— H:	No, it was a law.

	W:	This became a part of the contract, and was enforceable to the code. H:	No, I know. It was in law.

	W:	Because I’m going tell you what happened: there was a Black fellow who worked in the postal service, and his wife was a domestic maid. And they saw a house, and she called and inquired about it, and the woman made an appointment for





her to go out and to look at the house, thing of that sort. But she didn’t have any money; now, this was a Black woman she was talking to. So, when she went out to look at the house, the house was no longer up for sale. Racial covenant.

MW:  Racial covenant?



	W:	Yeah, racial covenant. It was no longer up for sale. H:	“Closed covenant” is what it was called, I think.

	W:	So guess what? This woman went back and told her boss. Her White boss. The White boss went and bought the house. And sold it to him. And so then, that resulted in the case being taken to the court, and the court ruled that this covenant was unconstitutional, and anybody can buy a house anyplace that they are willing and able to pay for.

	MW:	This is a promise in a written contract or a deed of written property. W:	Yeah.

	MW:	So, like you said, that makes everything an unofficial agreement, or unspoken, a gentleman’s agreement.

	W:	Yeah. Well, you take property to the court, the court ruling on that thing, that thing was part of the contract, and it was enforceable by law. And you take—like, right now for example: I have a license to carry a concealed weapon. And my concealed weapon, it says “a gun or other weapon,” so long as I carry it concealed. And so, I carry a concealed weapon. Many times, I’ve carried a .45, it was on a shoulder scabbard. I’m all dressed up in a suit, you can’t tell whether I have a gun there. Because I have a scabbard over here with a [inaudible





1:38:29] that I carry a lot of the time. And it’s not because of the fact that I want to be bad or claim to be bad, or anything of that sort, but I just—

MW: Be prepared, like the Boy Scouts say. [Laughter] It’s going to remain concealed unless someone does something to have it be unconcealed. [Laughter] You not planning on pulling it out.

	W:	But now, my interpretation of the Second Amendment is different from the NRA. And now, they sent me a membership card and things, and I said, “How in the hell did they get my name?” Because somehow or another, they had some way of going through the State Department and getting my name.

	H:	Oh, you mean for the permit? W:	Yeah.

	H:	Oh, everything like that is public. It’s just like your house. People don’t realize, you can go down there and find out anything you want to find out about the ownership of property and stuff. In any state, that’s public.

	W:	[Laughter]



	H:	Yeah.



	MW:	A concealed weapon permit is—I mean, people can look and see if you have one. Or if you own a gun. They can check and see that. They don’t know where it is, but they’ll know if you own one, if one is registered to you.

	W:	Yeah, I had people tell me, “Do you own a gun collection?” And I said, “I have a private arsenal.” And boy, that [inaudible 1:39:45]! [Laughter]

	MW:	Do you recall the names of any of the people in Dunnellon who were in CORE? W:	No, I never did get down to that area, unh-uh.





	MW:	Would Betty Wright be a name you’d recall?



	W:	Let me see here. I know a guy’s name, he used to be very popular. I can’t think of his name. But he was something else! [Laughter] We talking about peaceful and nonviolent; this guy say violence sometimes focus emphasis or attention on things that would be neglected otherwise, you know?

	H:	Most of the people that were involved, though—



	W:	And I can’t think of his name, but this guy, he was something else. He advocated using violence wide open.

	H:	Later on, it was the Black ministers that sucked up all the oxygen in the room. So the Black ministers, through the NAACP, were involved later on.

	W:	Malcolm originally emphasized violence, Malcolm X. H:	Oh, of course! Of course.

	W:	Because he was in an argument with Martin Luther King for a long time. H:	Oh yeah, I know about that.

	W:	And then finally, later along down the line, he changed. I’m like you; I stood on 125th Street and listened to him stand up on a ladder at Lincoln.

	MW:	Were you involved in Ocala or Dunnellon at all with CORE as well? H:	Who, me?

	MW:	Yes, sir.



H:  No, see I didn’t live here other than doing the time that I would go North in the summertime, from the time I was about in the ninth grade. So I’d only be here during the school year, until I graduated. Then once I graduated, I left. I wasn’t around. But I was involved because three years after I graduated from high





school, I came back to Florida A&M. So then, I would come here on the weekends. And so, all these people that were involved were my friends.

	W:	And your mother was my classmate, you know.



	H:	Yeah, I know. So, one of the reasons why I went to New York was because of his sister.

	MW:	Okay.



	H:	Yeah, because the young man that was sitting there, his sister—this man’s sister, that’s his mother—lived in New York. So, when I went to New York, I didn’t have to look for an apartment or anything. I had a place to stay.

	MW:	But you knew Judy, and you knew Dan. Did you know— H:	Nigel Hollinger?

	MW:	Well, no but I know that name. I was going to say Buddy Wright? H:	Probably, but not by name.

	W:	Who?



	MW:	Buddy? It was Betty Wright’s brother. “Buddy” is what they called him. H:	Mhmm. This is the one who knew everybody by name.

	MW:	Okay.



	H:	The gentleman that was sitting over there, he knew all of them by name. I knew a lot of them by sight. Because the weekdays, I would be up at Florida A&M, and on the weekends I would come down here.

	MW:	Okay.



	H:	Yeah.



	MW:	So what was Gainesville like in 1962, [19]63, on a weekend?





	H:	For us, it was not a problem. But I mean, there were problems in the community. But we were so busy planning activities, and trying to figure out what we going to do next, and strategizing, that we weren’t really paying that much attention to what was going on. Like, this gentleman, he had to teach his classes and stuff.

	W:	Certain people like Judy Benninger Brown, and the Harmeling brothers, and Dr. Jones, and all them people. Now, they sacrificed a lot in favor of our interests. And I was very skeptical of them at first. I said, “Now, why are they so interested in me?” And during that time, people were talking about they were accusing us of being communist. And I said, “No, I’m not a communist. And have no interest in communism.” But now, those people, they sacrificed a whole lot in our interest.

And I will never forget Dr. Jones, and Judy. Judy, she was something. Yeah. And she was brave and bold, which I liked.

	MW:	Could you give an example of something that she did that you thought was particularly brave or bold?

	W:	To talk to some of the White people here who were exercising policies that were against Blacks. She would debate and argue with them in a minute.

	H:	Yeah, but not just that. Things like: why we don’t have Black students at the University of Florida; why is it that the theater is not integrated? And then formulating a strategy, formulating a strategy to try to integrate it.

Demonstrations; not just one thing. She was like—and it wasn’t just her. It was a group of them that knew each other, but then they would talk to someone like J, who knew the community, and say, “How do we go about doing this?” “Well, we need cars. We need people that are willing to march. Whatever resources we





need, can we get Reverend Wright?” Because Reverend Wright was very instrumental also later on.

	W:	Mhmm.



	H:	Can we get other ministers to work with us? You know? You can’t imagine the amount of time that was spent on these activities, because everything was very carefully planned. It wasn’t where you just run out there and do something. And those were the head people, the ones that we talked about? But we had a lot of other students that would come out and support us, the White students.

	W:	Mhmm.



	H:	If you looked at our demonstrations, our demonstrations were a few Blacks and a whole bunch of Whites!

	W:	Yeah.



	H:	Yeah.



	W:	And imagine you take, now, my cousin Reverend Alexander; now, he was the president of the NAACP in name only, not in action. And he stood as a barrier to us. We had to take and wrest control from him to put Wright in. You see?

	H:	Mhmm.



	W:	And he really wanted to hold it for the recognition. Now, I’d never do anything just for the recognition. I’m doing things to achieve a result.

	H:	For the community. W:	Yeah, I want a result.

	MW:	While you were here for these Gainesville activities, what was still going on over in Tallahassee, though? Was the FAMU CORE still active with the theaters, and





the downtown, and those things? And why did you choose to come over here instead of staying there?

	H:	I had a girlfriend over here. MW:	Oh, okay. [Laughter] That’s real.

	H:	But no, I did things up there also. Matter of fact, I’m named in a Supreme Court case up there, where we were put in jail. And it was like six hundred and some of us put in jail. And the NAACP eventually got us out of jail. But we were trying to integrate the theater downtown. And so they had put a whole bunch of our students in jail. So, we had a sympathy march on the county jail. So they said, “Just come right on in!” And we were on the property of jail, so they arrested us. And so, we got charged with trespassing on public property.

	MW:	At the jail.



	H:	Yeah, at the jail. [Laughter] I’ll dig this case up for you, because I got it somewhere. But Leon County vs. something else. But these were all Florida A&M students. And this was not one demonstration for the theater, but several. Also Morrison’s. So, what had happened is we started having a season. When school started, that was the demonstration season. Because once the students were in town, it’s time to start raising hell. And so, the freshman students would get caught up in this, because they didn’t know that much about how things worked. [Laughter] So, those were the students who were usually the easiest to get involved in the demonstrations and things. And a lot of people didn’t realize it, but we also had the football team with us. They didn’t demonstrate, but that was our security at Florida A&M. The football team was usually up on the sidewalks





and things, walking. So, we weren’t worried about—because Tallahassee was a racist community. We had Georgia just a few miles away, and that’s a crazy place. And then we got places like Quincy and all these little small towns—

	MW:	Havana. H:	Oh, yes.

	MW:	Thomasville, Bellamy Road.



	H:	Yeah, we got all these little hick towns around here. And we had the Dues out of Quincy. So we had plenty going on; our plate was full up there.

	MW:	What are your recollections of the Dues?



	H:	They’re very good people, just lovely people. They put up a lot of students up there when they would have demonstrations and things. They would actually come down to Tallahassee also, and do things with us down there. But I can’t say enough good about them, because they were just that good. And I’m trying to think—the wife may have been a student at Florida A&M, I’m not sure.

	MW:	The wife and her sister, Priscilla. And— H:	Oh, okay.

	MW:	In fact, I don’t know if you noticed, but this is John Due right up here. H:	I haven’t seen him in years, so I wouldn’t know. [Laughter]

	MW:	Well, that’s what he looks like.



	H:	Yeah, yeah. But the wife was something else, now. Don’t let nobody fool you. It wasn’t a one-man show. The wife was very much involved, also. Very much involved.

	MW:	People describe them as Mr. and Mrs. Florida Civil Rights.





	H:	Mmhm, mmhm.



	MW:	If you heard that, how would you respond to that?



	H:	I can’t. But all I can tell you is, like I say: if it was something that needed to be done—and so they were religious people, so they approached it from a totally different angle from a lot of us. A lot of us looked at it from a rights point of view, but they looked at it as it was something that God would want them to do. You know? So, the approach was different, but the net result was the same in terms of what they were after. Because a lot of our young people were not religious people. But they saw a wrong and they wanted it righted. But these people looked at it that God would want us to do this. So, there was always prayer and stuff.

	MW:	How was the administration at FAMU about this? Dr. Gore, and the president, teachers, what kind of support do you feel that you had or did not have from them?

	H:	Oh, they were assholes. I knew all of them personally. Reverend Miles, who was the dean of the students, and Gore, both of them are Alphas. They had no interest at all. But once we got Morrison’s opened up, they were the first once in there grazing on the chicken and stuff in there. Once the law had changed— because they had money, and they had no place to go there in Tallahassee. So they wanted to go down there and enjoy whatever the White folk were enjoying down there. But it was amazing how fast they got they butts into those restaurants and things. Now see, I lived in New York, so all these things were things that we did all the time. So I wasn’t interested in going to that—even





though I demonstrated, theaters and whatdoyoucallit, it was no interest to me. And you see, a member of my family was on the faculty at Florida A&M. So, we had a lovely house, and a place to have some great meals and things, and we did it very often because we had quite a family there in the city. But like I say, I was involved in all of the demonstrations and things. But I don’t think I ever went into Morrison’s to eat. And I don’t think I ever went to the theater there to look at a movie there, interestingly enough. But we wanted things for the young people and things that happened there. And that was a harder nut to crack than Gainesville, by the way, because of Florida State.

	W:	Wait a minute, Matthis. You’re talking about Morrison’s Cafeteria? H:	Yeah.

	W:	We never had any problems at Morrison’s Cafeteria here in Gainesville. H:	Yeah, they folded right away. Opened up.

	W:	You’re right.



	H:	Yeah. But up there? It was a different story up there.



	W:	And you take, like, the University Inn that was down on 13th? H:	Yeah.

	W:	Oh, I can’t think of the guy’ name who owned it, but now, we didn’t have any problems with them at all. Because I’ll tell you something: I tried to desegregate churches, public accommodations for private businesses and things of this sort, and even for example I came to White churches. I would call a pastor and say, “Look, now we have a delegation that’s coming to worship with you.” [Laughter] And then I’d give my name and things, and they’d, “Oh, yeah, Mr. Welch, come





on. We’d be glad to have you.” Because I sent Mickle, I sent Mickle with the delegation to worship at the Presbyterian Church there on 2nd.

	H:	Mmhm.



	W:	When he was in school.



	H:	Let me go back to Tallahassee a minute, because Tallahassee was a different situation for a couple of reasons. If you look at where Morrison’s was located, the state capitol is right over there. So you had the Porkchop Gang, these racists from north Florida that were running the state legislature. So you could see how that would be much more difficult, because they were eating in Morrison’s.

	MW:	Where was Morrison’s at? Was it on Monroe? H:	Yeah.

	MW:	Okay, so the capital, and it was on Monroe? H:	About two streets back.

	MW:	Heading toward FAMU, or heading toward Lake Ella?



	H:	It was on the right hand side, heading toward FAMU. That mall and stuff was built I think while I was actually at A&M.

	MW:	The Tallahassee Mall, or the Governor’s Mall?



	H:	No, the mall that’s down the street from the capitol. If you’re standing up here, you can look down and see it. I don’t remember the name of it.

	MW:	Okay, its down from 27th, the Governor’s square?



	H:	Yeah, yeah. Yeah. But it was just a small country town, and everything that you had to contend with—let me tell you what they did to us up there, because when





we went to the county jail, the county jail couldn’t hold no six hundred people. They took us out to the fairgrounds, and put us in there where they put the cattle.

	MW:	Where Tallahassee Community College is now? H:	I don’t even know what the hell is out there.

	MW:	That appleyard?



	H:	Yeah. But I know it was cattle pens that we were in, because I was out there for about a week. And Tallahassee was a hard nut to crack, man.

	MW:	How did you end up going out to the jail out of the county? What were you involved in, and what was the process? Can you take us through that?

	H:	Well, it was demonstrating at the theater. But we didn’t go to the theater. They had put a bunch of our students in the county jail. So we’d go on down to say, “Put us in jail with them.” So, it was a sympathy demonstration. And again, we’d have all kinds of demonstrations, because we didn’t want our students in jail to think that we had forgotten about them, those of us who were back at the university, enjoying going to class and had our freedom. So the other purpose was to put pressure on the county officials there to do something—not to put us in jail, but to do something in terms of realizing that this is a cascading situation, this is not going to be where you put a couple people in jail, and you hold them, and they going be in there. You know?

	W:	Matthis, you must remember now that Tallahassee is near Quincy and Madison. [Laughter]

	H:	Oh, yes! I used to drive up there. And I would drive very slowly through it.



Because we didn’t have these expressways like we have now.





	MW:	Yeah. You had to take 90, or you had to take 26.



	H:	I took 26 most of the time. So I went through these little small towns where they had these bad sheriffs and stuff. So I drove very slow, and I had a very ugly little foreign car. [Laughter] And it was banged up nicely, so they knew that it was some poor people in that vehicle. [Laughter] And I’d drive at night, I would leave here maybe eleven o’clock at night and get there, have coffee, and eat something, and go to my first class in the morning. So the sheriff and them, they’d usually go to sleep by that time. They didn’t want to be bothered with me out there on the road.

	MW:	What year were you in the Leon County Jail? H:	Probably around [19]64.

	MW:	[19]64, okay. For a student today, going to jail is not an easy thing, but some of them are like, “Well, I went to jail.” It’s something to talk about. But that happened to you. A student going to jail might mean that you might never get a job, or—

	H:	Oh, no. Oh, no, no, no. MW:	It wasn’t like that?

	H:	No, no, no. The White folk are embarrassed about this case. Because you got to go back. See, I got two years of law, also. And in addition, I was a political science major. This case says that—if you going look at my record, you won’t find this nowhere. Because like I told you, they were embarrassed about this.

Trespassing on public property? The case actually was upheld by the Supreme Court. The purpose was civil rights, so they know it was civil rights. So when they look at it, they say, “Oh, this is bullshit.”





	MW:	So by 1964, you could have a civil rights arrest that wouldn’t be the same thing as like in 1959, 1960?

	H:	No, no, no. They wanted to make it stick. But you got to look at the whole panoply of the situation. Now let me go to something else different, and it’ll deal with this: I worked for Nixon, I was a political appointee in the Nixon administration. So, when they were doing the background check for the F.B.I., I told them about this. Basically they said, “That’s bullshit. We know what that was.” [Brief interruption] They said, “That will not hold you from anything. Matter of fact, that’s a star.” [Laughter] That’s the Nixon administration, now; we not talking about the Kennedy administration. Okay?

	MW:	Not Nixon in California, but Nixon as president?



	H:	Nixon as president, yeah. [Laughter] So, I worked in that administration. Now going back, I used to put it down. And they told me, “Stop putting that down on your record.” And I got the perception that it was embarrassing to the Whites, that they had put people in jail for civil rights stuff. They say, “Civil rights stuff, we not going hold that against you. We know what was going on at that time.” So I never had a problem with that.

	MW:	Okay.



	H:	Yeah.



	MW:	That might have been different for—for example, I talked to Patricia Stephens Due, and Priscilla Stephens, and what they talked about was how they weren’t afraid, but their parents were afraid that the board of control was telling the





president, “These students are suspended, they can’t come back to the university.” So, [inaudible 1:59:10] graduate.

	H:	No, all the students came back that wanted to come back.



	MW:	Okay, that would have been 1959 and 1960, though. That was their experience. H:	Yeah, that was earlier. That was earlier, yeah.

	MW:	So what you’re relating, if I can be accurate, is that by 1964 the environment had changed where you weren’t even worried about that. You were just an activist.

	H:	Well now, you got to understand something about me: like I said, my mother worked on this building over here. My mother knew every governor, at least about six governors, of the state of Florida. So the environment was not one that I was frightened of, in terms of what I did. Also, I didn’t live in the state of Florida. I never had a real job in the state of Florida. I lived in New York.

	MW:	You just went to college in Florida.



	H:	Right, I just went to high school and college here. And so. I quit a job on the New York Stock Exchange to come back to Florida to get a B.A. So my perception of the world was just totally different from what was going on here. Like one of the things they tried to get me to do was live in a dormitory, because they had a rule where you had to live in a dorm when you were a freshman. I said, “This is bullshit; I’ve lived in an apartment, in my own house, and you think I’m going to live in a fucking dormitory with a bunch of kids?” [Laughter] I said, “You out of your fucking mind! You just crazy.” You know? I was talking about Gore and the dean of students, Roberts Miles?

	M:	Yeah.





	H:	I used to park in their parking space when I was up at Florida A&M. MW:	Well, for spite?

	H:	Well, just for the hell of it. Like, I’d be late for class, and there would be no parking spaces. That’s how much respect I had for them. Let me tell you about me, because you don’t know. You playing with the wrong person, you start playing around with me. See, I was supposed to go to school here. But, like I said, this place didn’t excite me, because I didn’t want to be talking to people about how liberal they were. So I wasn’t coming here. I started school up there, and I enjoyed my first two years. The second and the third year, the sophomore year, I realized that these schools’ curriculums didn’t match up. So I had to spend an extra year probably just getting my courses straightened out to transfer. So I said, “I’m not going to do that. A BA, a BS from any damn school with the stamp of the state of Florida, that’s all I need.”

	W:	In New York, it’s the same thing. From FAU, FSU, Florida; you went to Florida.



	H:	Yeah, most people didn’t even know what the hell it was, or what the difference was. I concentrated on thinking about graduate school, and making me some money, because I had to pay for this myself. So that was my concern when it got to that point. Those Negroes that I’m telling you about, that had no interest in civil rights? You know what they said to us when we came back to the university after we had been arrested? “You all shouldn’t have been down there in the White folk’ jail anyway.” And they [inaudible 2:02:17]. Say, “You shouldn’t have been doing that.” The people that got us out of jail was the NAACP, the New York office. And they had people down there in Florida, because so much was going on down





here in Florida. Endicott Peabody’s mother was arrested over here in St. Augustine. So, the various civil rights organizations had they eye on Florida, because they knew Florida was a lot of crazy stuff going on. So things were happening here.

W:  Well, Matthis, excuse me for interrupting. Now, there were times when many of our Black elder people, they felt that, “You don’t talk to White folks!” [Laughter] “Don’t you go talk to White folks!”

	H:	Like in family, I’m the only one that was like an activist. My sister wasn’t involved in anything. She was like one year younger than me. That was commonplace that people were not involved. There was a small group that was everywhere.

Like if they had something in Williston, and we knew about it, and they needed some help, we’d be there.

	MW:	Now, Williston, Florida, in Levy County?



	H:	No, wherever it was, we would go. We weren’t frightened of these people. MW:	You participated in civil rights demonstration, some kind of activity, in Williston,

Florida?



	H:	No, not me. Not me. But I’m saying our organization, I’m saying our organization was not afraid to go to places. We would go. If they needed help, we would go.

	W:	Like were you thinking about Ocala? Or Williston? MW:	Ocala, okay.

	W:	We could go.



	MW:	Ocala is big, though, compared to Williston. W:	Yeah, I know that.





	MW:	Williston in 1963 must have been about as big as this building. [Laughter] W:	Some of us weren’t afraid at bad thing happening.

	MW:	Why weren’t you afraid? W:	Huh?

	MW:	Why were you not afraid?



	W:	If I get knocked off or something, it is just for the purposing of improving things.



It’s just like, for example, take an experience I had when I was in the Armed Forces overseas during World War II. Now, I was in a place called Liege, Belgium. We was right on the—I can’t think of the name—the river.

	H:	Rhine?



	W:	And the Germans had the V-1 and V-2 rocket bombs. Now the V-2, you could recognize, because it had a long flame shooting out from it, and it made a lot of noise. But the 1, when they improved it, you could hear it, but you couldn’t see where it was.

	H:	It had a whistling sound.



	W:	So whenever they sound the emergency signal—I was living in an old museum building—I would run downstairs and get down beside the river, the riverbed.

Well, on one occasion, they didn’t sound the emergency. And I started down that stairway. And man, those guys were scared, and they started a stampede! And I had to hold with every ounce of strength I had to keep them from knocking me down. And they would just trample me to death! So from that point on, know what I said? I’m not going to run anymore from the emergency. See, if I get killed, I won’t be the only one. That’s the attitude that I assumed. And so, when it came





to fighting for the school desegregation, I reached the point, I said, “Now, if they fire me, okay. I was a cook by trade. I’ll go back to cooking.” [Laughter]

	H:	To answer your question though, I think a lot of people were fed up. Because I know the people that I was involved with intimately, they were fed up with the system, and they just weren’t going to take it anymore. It was just that simple. Because that was my attitude. And my attitude is very similar to his: if it’s the day for me to die, it’s a good day to die. My attitude goes to the motto of New Hampshire: live free or die. That was my attitude. That’s pretty much been my attitude. But you got to go back and look at my father. He knows my father. My father is the kind of man that didn’t take no foolishness. He didn’t care what color you were. And he raised me with that philosophy. That you are going to treat me with respect, or you not going treat me any kind of way. I threatened the sheriffs and policemen all up and down 95—it was 301 at the time. It was combination of 301 and 95 a lot of that time. I had a cop that stopped me in Georgia somewhere. I don’t even know where the hell I was. Another cop had already stopped us, me and my brother; we were on the way back to A&M. He already made us pay some kind of fine. Supposedly speeding—I don’t think we were speeding. But this one said that we were speeding, again. It was over the county line. I said, “No, no. There was no speeding. We know you got a call from your friend. I know you got a call from your friend in the other county.” I said, “What I really will do if you don’t let us go”—and this guy was about two hundred and change, too. Big, old, red, burly cop. “I’ll take the gun off you and whip your ass right here. I might even decide to kill you.” But, that was my attitude throughout. An attitude of





determination about what our goals and destinies were. I wasn’t going to just take foolishness. I was willing to die for my beliefs. So, that was my attitude. And I didn’t carry a gun or anything, even though I knew how to use them. Because I’d been trained how to use weapons and things, you know? I meant what I told that cop. I was serious about that. And eventually, he let us go. I don’t know what kind of deal my brother and I made with him, but we got out of that one. I confronted policemen all up and down, North and South, over the years. In New York, I would walk up and ask, “What’s the problem? What’s going on here?” When I see cops stop people and do stuff to them. But I have never been the kind that’s going to back off and be afraid of them.

[Phone call interruption]



	W:	The highest rank that I achieved in the service overseas was PFC. And the reason for it was, that even in the service, I’d be taking up causes for those people who could not express themselves, or who were too afraid. I’d speak up for them. My company commander one time, he and I got into a confrontation. He’d say one thing, and I’d say another. And finally, he told me, “Shut up!” Said [inaudible 2:09:57], but I’ll give you five minutes to go to the barrack and change into your—”

	H:	Civvies.



	W:	—“your clothes and report to my office!” I went, and then I hurried up and got there. “Private First Class Welch reporting as ordered, sir.” He said, “Rest.” And I rest. “Private First Class Welsh, you a damn good soldier. There only one thing





wrong with you: you got too goddamn much mouth.” And he said it, because I’d take up causes that wasn’t—. [Laughter]

	H:	Yeah. One of the things I noticed involving the civil rights, though—and this is the reason I went into government, by the way—is I noticed that people didn’t know they rights. They didn’t know what could be done to them or what couldn’t be done to them. People walk around like—this became very obvious when we worked Benninger and that crew, that people didn’t know the law. They didn’t know that people made the laws. They didn’t know about voting and stuff. There lot of things that people are just out in the dark on. So, a lot of it was taking up the cause of those people who were just ignorant to things. And they didn’t take the time, didn’t know that people were putting game on them. I think a lot of it went back to that. Now, I got to tell you about another situation up in Tallahassee: one of my best friends from college was killed, a guy named George Best. George was involved in the Mississippi Freedom Project. And George would go up to Mississippi and come back to school. He was like a real civil rights person. I mean, like, he was serious. He lived it. And to go up there?

Eventually he got killed up there.



	MW:	Was he in Bolivar County when that happened? Or where was he? H:	I don’t know the county.

	MW:	Cleveland? Ruleville?



	H:	I don’t know. I could find it. I can go dig it up, because he was a guy from Tallahassee. He had a TR3, and they found the TR3 turned over in the river. He’d been run off the road. He was very conspicuous. A TR3?





	MW:	A Triumph? Fiat?



	H:	Yeah. No, not the Fiat. The three. The three was the one that was long and looked kind of like the Jaguar, but it wasn’t the Jaguar. It was a TR3. It was a green. I had a TR4 later on. But this guy was murdered. No question about it. He was a SNCC worker, but he was up there with the Mississippi Freedom Project. But we had other people that I’m sure that got killed during the work and stuff.

But that didn’t frighten us or anything. We all continued on.



	MW:	Did you know anybody else personally from Mississippi besides your friend?



	H:	He wasn’t from Mississippi. He was from Tallahassee, but he was involved with the project up there. He was in Sunflower County, I believe.

	MW:	Sunflower County?



	H:	I think that is where he was, yeah.



	MW:	That actually sounds like somebody that Margaret Block talked about. That’s why I was trying to remember.

	D:	Yeah, the name sounds familiar.



	MW:	Yeah, that’s what I want to see, is this the same person that Margaret knows?



	H:	Yeah, local people in Tallahassee would know him, and people in Mississippi would know him. Because he was a real hero. Like I say, he wasn’t scared of nothing. He didn’t carry a gun or anything like that. That wasn’t his nature. But see, I wouldn’t get caught on roads like that. Like in Mississippi? I made it my business to stay the hell out of Mississippi, Alabama—I didn’t even like coming through to Georgia. You all are probably not familiar with this, but there was a





captain in the military, didn’t have anything to do with civil rights, that was killed in Georgia. Probably in the late [19]50s.

	MW:	Blinded coming back through in his uniform? H:	Yes. Yes.

	MW:	I know the story. I can’t think of the man’s name, but I know the story.



	H:	There were things like that. Then you got other things. Do you all know anything about the Oakland Arsenal, where these soldiers were loading ships to go for the Pacific?

	MW:	They were all court-marshaled, and it really wasn’t their fault? H:	The thing blew up.

	MW:	Yeah.



	H:	And then the only people who worked on loading the stuff—this was stuff, I think the big old things that they put down in them. And it was very unstable, plus the weather was very hot there. And it may have been nitroglycerine, I’m not sure.

But these guys lost their lives, and there is very little known about the situation. There’s another situation, in Kansas I think it was, where something happened to a bunch of Black soldiers. But they always got the worst of every goddamn thing, in terms of treatment, in terms of assignments. Often the commanding officer would be some damn racist from the South someplace that would be in charge of the whatdoyoucallit. There are a lot of stories, I forgot what they were called, but they came out of New York. It was the National Guard or something. They came out of one of those armories in Harlem that went to Europe. It’s a big story about that. I think they had a White commander, if I’m not mistaken. But their units, they





were Black units that came out of the National Guard or something, but they were federalized. These units were eventually federalized. What I’m talking about is mostly World War II, but there are things that go back to World War I also. So there’s a long history. What is the guy’s name? Andy? The guy who was the head of the Urban League? Whitney Young. Whitney Young was a military man. Go back and look at his history. That’s how he was able to bring that organization—because people knew him. And he was doing things like we’re talking about, standing up for soldiers in the military. He developed a concern about jobs for not just military people, but jobs when the war was over. So, that was a lot of his training for initially being involved with civil rights.

	W:	Now, didn’t Clinton appoint him to an office? And something simple happened, and he had to let him go?

	H:	I don’t know.



	W:	I think so.



	MW:	Whitney Young? W:	Huh?

	MW:	Whitney Young. W:	Yeah.

	H:	I think he was dead by that time, wasn’t he?



	MW:	No, I think Whitney Young might have served. There was some kind of controversy.

	W:	Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.



	MW:	I’m not quite sure. I may be mixing up with Vernon Jordan.





	W:	Mmhm.



	H:	Vernon Jordan was a lawyer, but he made out okay though.



	M:	Well, we talked a little before about Harry T. Moore. I mean, that was another example of pretty extreme violence, and that was in Florida. Did people talk much about him?

	W:	Moore?



	M:	Later? After the fact? H:	Moore. Harry T. Moore. W:	No, I don’t think so. No.

	H:	I remember it when he was a kid. People talked about the explosion. The bombing of the whatdoyoucallit. But I don’t remember a lot of detail. Because I think the teachers would have been concerned, because that would’ve had something to do with their economic situation. So outside of that circle, I don’t think that most other people had that kind of community interest.

	MW:	We know it was covered in the Black newspapers, and it was covered in the international newspapers. You know, the Russians; it was in Pravda, it was in all these—

	H:	The Courier. The Pittsburgh Courier would have been in there. That was a primary paper.

	MW:	Did you read those papers?



	W:	Of course they mentioned that. H:	I did, yes.





	W:	I often wonder why did our major newspapers disappear all of the sudden. Like the Pittsburgh Courier, the Chicago—

D:   Defender.



	W:	There were at least three of them. MW:	The Defender, the African American—

	W:	And they sort of kept up apprised of everything that was going on. And as soon as we began to integrate a little bit, they just totally disappeared. I think there’s a need for them even today.

	H:	They didn’t have the whatdoyoucallit, J. They couldn’t afford to compete with the White papers.

	D:	Distribution.



	MW:	Advertisement.



H:  Because that’s what the newspapers ran off of, was the advertisement and stuff. But so they couldn’t afford to—I don’t even know like guys like, what was the guy that started the first Black paper up in—?

	MW:	Frederick Douglass, the North Star?



H:  Yeah, yeah. I don’t even know how—I read about it. But he was able to get funds, I think, from White folk.

MW:  Abolitionists helped the newspaper.



H:  The Liberator. It’s always been hard to put out journals and things like that. So I wasn’t surprised. It is just like what happened—and this is a classic example: at Florida A&M, we had an excellent football team, as long as it was segregated.





The minute it became integrated, our team—and I was there so I saw it go like that. Okay?

	D:	Like the Negro Leagues did in baseball? Yep.



	H:	It went straight down. Because the coaches encouraged the boys. They said, “Go where there’s money. You need to be on TV. If nobody knows you, you not going to have a career.” So a lot of times, you had to do the thing that was expedient to do, and it would be working against you. Like one of the things they wanted to do is close down Florida A&M. We raised so much hell that they said, “We don’t want them people over here at Florida State!” [Laughter] Yeah, the law school’ back, you know that, right?

	W:	Now Matthis, I don’t know whether you agree with this or not— MW:	They are building one in Orlando.

	H:	Yeah, but I mean Florida A&M has a law school, don’t they?



	MW:	Yes, they do in Orlando. The only law school is the FSU law school now.



	W:	Why did they give them that school in Orlando? Because they originally had it on the campus at A&M. It never did warrant, so they closed it down.

	H:	It was very small.



	W:	So when they got a president who wanted to open up another Black university or something, they said, “Okay, we’ll give you a law school down—”

	MW:	In Orlando. They built the FIU law school, and they built the Miami law school.



	W:	I have a cousin who graduated from there. And I been expecting big things. You don’t never hear anything about it, though. [Laughter] And he graduated from the law school. Now, he’s a lawyer. [Inaudible 2:21:04].





	H:	We had one graduate that I know. A guy named Elbert Hatchet from Pontiac, Michigan. He did very well for himself. He is an alum. I am trying to think. No, he’s the one that I know very well. There are others, but I don’t know them that well. He was a bail bondsman when he was in college. So he’d always buy him a brand new car, like a Jaguar or something or another. So, he was doing very good economically.

	W:	Now, that, like around here, I’m a Cadillac man. I’ve driven Cadillacs for many, many years. In fact, I brought brand-new Cadillacs when the local Cadillac dealer wouldn’t sell a Black a brand new Cadillac. A Black go there talking about buying a new Cadillac, he take you to the used car lot. He say, “You ain’t supposed to have that.” And so, the way that I got all of my first new Cadillacs here is that we had a used car dealer who had access to getting cars brand-new from other places. In fact, Arlen Strikes. Now, he went to Lake City, and he bought a

brand-new Cadillac, brought it back for me.



	H:	I didn’t even know that story. That’s one that’s beyond me. Money wasn’t good enough for him!

	W:	Huey Dixon—not Huey Dixon… H:	Dixon had some money.

	W:	No, I’m not talking. [Inaudible 2:22:37]. But now, this man worked on the train, Dixon. From Sugarhill. He was the first Black to buy a new Cadillac in Gainesville, but his came from a company in Ocala. A company down there sold Pontiacs and Cadillacs, and he bought his there. I was the second person to own a new Cadillac, and I got mine through Strikes in Lake City.





	H:	I do remember when I was a kid, people would go away to buy these luxury cars.



Because a lot of teachers had nice cars in Gainesville. But they would go to Miami,or Jacksonville, or other cities. But I always thought it was because the prices were better or something.

	W:	Mm-mm. They wouldn’t sell it to you. [Laughter]



	H:	Yeah, maybe the finances or something. I didn’t realize that’s what it was. Yeah.



	W:	During the early days, the sister to the Cadillac was the LaSalle. They don’t make that anymore.

	H:	That was a Chrysler product, wasn’t it?



	W:	No, no. General Motors. That was sister to the Cadillac. And they would sell you a LaSalle, but not Cadillac. I mean, in Gainesville.

	H:	I didn’t even know about this part with the cars. W:	McKnight bought a new LaSalle.

	H:	A lot of gamesmanship went on here.



	MW:	What did you think of Jake Gaither? I know you mentioned that he encouraged the players to go somewhere else if they had the opportunity.

	W:	May I ask you a question, please? MW:	Yes, sir.

	W:	Who was the coach before Gaither? MW:	No idea.

	W:	Because he was very prominent. I remember here well. He went to the Service.



And after the Service, he was supposed to come back to resume his job. And Gaither was one of his assistants.





	MW:	I don’t remember his name, sir. H:	I don’t know either.

	W:	And the guy was great. Yeah. H:	I don’t know who it was.

	W:	He was a great coach. But he went to the Service, and soon they moved Gaither in his position. Then, you take for example, this fast cadence of marching that they do at A&M and all the Black schools now. But now, Foster was the band director at A&M, and he copied that from Michigan State. Michigan State was the only school in the nation that had that type of marching and things of that sort.

And now, it exists in all our schools. Southern is the top school now above A&M now. The team is up there in band.

	H:	But that’s because they still don’t have a band. We don’t have a band! [Laughter] But that’ll change soon! That’s another interesting situation to look at, and then I’ll come back to Gaither for you: but more shenanigans went on right here involving pledging and stuff. They used to take these boys out here and make them cross Payne’s Prairie between 75 and that other road out there. You know? I mean, I can’t even start to talk about what they done here. They just got caught with they pants down. They didn’t have a good management. Because I look back at it, and you should’ve had a manager on every one of them buses, okay? So that would get rid of all the nonsense. Management at the university was weak, obviously. I don’t know where they got this guy from, Edmunds. I didn’t even like Dr. Humphries. Dr. Humphries was one of my teachers, and I didn’t even care for him when he was president. I don’t think we have had a true advocate for Black





students up there over the years. I just met with the president that they have there now, the active president? I met with him about a week ago. Because in my family, we have a problem where they are holding one of the students back for one course. So I been riding their ass, so to speak.

	D:	Negotiating. [Laughter]



	H:	To try to get this situation straightened out. Because this young lady has done all the required work and stuff. And they’re still running around—and the thing that got me interested in it when I talked to her, is that they tried that game with me. Because I was really going to graduate in three and a half years, so I had to spend another semester there or something for one course.

	W:	I got caught in that, too.



	H:	And what happened at these small universities, very often the course is not even offered. This course was offered. But they brought in a teacher, I don’t know where this lady came from—what was her name? I can’t even think of her name. That is how significant she was in my life—for that one course. But we have another tradition dealing with that one course dealing with women that I won’t even talk about, because this thing is on.

	MW:	We can turn it off any time you all want.



	H:	Oh, no. No, no, no. There was a lot of BS that went on around this one course thing. You’d be surprised, but I wouldn’t be surprised, the number of people that got hung up. So anytime I find a student that’s being hung up for one course, this place here, they’ve given away five or six courses to get your ass out of here. But up there, they hang you up for one course? And that’s one of the things that I





talked to the president about, is, “This is just nonsense.” And then when I looked at it, the girl had appealed, and the committee that’s supposed to handle appeal, they hadn’t even done they damn job! I wasn’t even aware of that when I looked at it initially. The university was the first one to pick up on it, that they hadn’t done their job. Seemed like the stumbling point was that this girl made a remark to her teacher that I don’t even care about. She was an architecture major, and good student apparently. She said, “I don’t even care about this, because I’m going to work in my family’s bakery.” The teacher got pissed off, because she said, “What the hell are you doing here?” Well, this girl is a senior in architecture. She done done all of her work. And this is the last course that she needs. But I don’t think she realized that you can’t always speak your mind. So, she got hung up. I think this teacher was a foreigner also. I’m not sure. But I’m still getting to the bottom of this. But let’s go back to Gaither. I didn’t know that much about Gaither, but what I did know of him, he was very well liked and loved at the university, in particular by the football players. Bob Hayes was one of my classmates. Do you know who Bob Hayes was?

	D:	Mmhm.



	H:	The world’s fastest man? He was one of my classmates, and one of my contemporaries there. So I know of him, and a lot of the young men that were around him, of the feelings for Coach Gaither, and they loved him.

	MW:	Were you there when they did the statue that’s there? They have a memorial statue for Coach Gaither where he’s—it’s a bronze statue on campus where he’s kind of kneeling, and there are these heads sticking out of the ground. Those are





the heads of all his players. And he’s got his hand on their heads, bringing them—you know, giving them guidance.

	H:	I never participated in a lot of the social stuff there, because I looked at it as— okay, I lived in New York. And this was this little school on the hill in Tallahassee. So it never got my interest that much in terms of the social cells. It was like a business.

	MW:	Ironically, there are so many students that go to FAMU just for the social! [Laughter]

	H:	Oh, no. Never participated in it. Never participated. Had no interest. Because I had a very good social life here. Like I say, my girlfriend was a student at the University of Florida. So, I had a good life. That would be below my standard there.

	MW:	Is she someone that you could mention? Your girlfriend at the time? H:	Yeah, I mentioned her name already, Hellinger. Nadia.

	MW:	Nadia Hellinger. H:	Yeah.

	MW:	Okay. I’m writing this down.



	H:	But anyway, I think the man was very well-liked. Also, the band director was very well-liked also. You got to go back and look at these people. Look at the coaches that got their degrees and went to schools around the state of Florida. Schools are loaded with—I don’t know about now, but they were loaded with people.

	MW:	Gaither—





	H:	Gaither and Dr. Foster. And you look at the bands. When they had a parade in small town around here—

	MW:	The high schools all had orange and green. H:	Yeah, yeah!

	MW:	You get little mini FAMUs.



	H:	Yeah. Not just that, but if you were to talk to the directors and things, you would find out where they got it from. But if you went up to Florida A&M, you could go up there anytime, day or evening, and if you saw the band room that we had in the old days, it wasn’t hitting on nothing. Okay? It was kind of like here at Lincoln. We had a band room across the street from Lincoln. But you walk in there, those students are in there practicing, man. You could hear music all the time. And that’s the way the football team was. The same thing. Because they didn’t have all these NCAA rules that we have now. See, that school, in terms of the athletics and music? Practice, practice, practice. That’s what it was about.

	W:	Gray made a great improvement on the physical plant at Florida A&M when he went there. Prior to his going there, all they had was old, dilapidated frame buildings.

	H:	A lot of them were there when I was there. Because the music building was something that came out of World War II from Camp Blanding. Those old military barracks? Yeah. Where else did we have them? We had them around here in Gainesville.

	W:	Oh, yeah. Just north of NE 8th Avenue? H:	Yeah.





	W:	Yeah, little sixteen-feet-square perimeter barracks.



	H:	But we also had them on the campuses though. We had some converted buildings like on some of these campuses around here that were those barracks, because I saw them drag them in from Camp Blanding.

	MW:	In the Flavet Field?



	H:	Yes, Flavet Field was one of them, yeah.



	MW:	Except they kind of closed it down a little bit, but it’s still there a little bit. H:	Yeah, yeah. We had plenty of that around here.

	MW:	I used to wonder who “Flavet” was. That whole Florida veterans.



	H:	[Laughter] Oh, I didn’t even—you finally told me! I didn’t know what it was.



	W:	Let me just go back down and talk about Tom Coward and our experiences back at Lincoln University. Now, when we went to Lincoln University, I ran upon things that I never had even heard of before. That is, for example, doing a research paper and documenting it. I didn’t know nothing about no bibliographies and all this kind of thing.

	H:	Hibbit. [Laughter]



	W:	Nobody never taught me that kind of thing. And so actually, we were struggling for that first year. I mean, really struggling. Because after my first year at Lincoln, I left there and came home. And I tell you why: that was a foolish idea. I had pledged a fraternity. And we had a Fred Moore, big brother, he had a brand new Mercury car. And he was a man about the campus as a result of owning this car. So that prompted me to come home and buy a new car. And so I left school, came home, bought a car, and paid for it in two years. And my GI Bill was about





to expire. So I had to get back, real right quick. And of course, once I got back, I went back for real business. See, I didn’t do a lot of socializing. That first year, we’d go to the club drinking liquor and things like that until four or five o’clock in the morning. Finally, I took a course in English literature, and it required us to read an English book. So I read the book, A Picture of Dorian Gray. Then she asked just general questions about the book that you had read. She wanted to know whether Dorian was liberal or radical or whatnot. And so, I said he was a very liberal individual. And she disagreed with me, and as a result, she gave me a grade of a C+ I believe it was. And then wrote on my test booklet, “No!” [Laughter] With an exclamation mark there. And s,o we had a radical teacher named Dr. Blue. He was a Harvard man. And I went to him. I said, “Dr. Blue, look at this.” I said, “Now, my teacher asked me was he radical or liberal or anything. So I said liberal.” He said, “You damn right, he was a liberal. Who said he wasn’t?” [Laughter] And so then, in addition to that, they wanted to put me on probation. [Laughter]

	H:	That’s a big thing!



	W:	And had not told me anything about it. And so, I then was ready to take that and sue the university. Yeah. Now I mean, I got an adage as well, here: they put you on reprimand, don’t go back. So, I said no. And guess what? The guy I was going to hire as lawyer to sue Lincoln University was the former governor of the state of Missouri! So they got scared. So that’s why they transferred me down to Arkansas. [Laughter] So, I went down to Arkansas. The dean at Lincoln formerly taught at Arkansas. And so, when they sent me down there, I went to report





directly to the president of the school to get me lunch money, get a place to stay, and all that kind of thing. And then, I’m in a fraternity. And we went to the Lincoln capital to complain about the school; we wanted them to put more individual colleges in at Arkansas. And they told us, they say, “Hell, no. You come on over here and go school.” And so now, they have a unitary system there in Arkansas now. The school I graduated from is no longer Arkansas A&M; it’s Arkansas University at Pine Bluff. I know you all mentioned something about A&M. One time, I was one of those persons who favored freedom at A&M, and instead of being unitary and combined of FSU and A&M.

	H:	The mission is different.



	W:	I see it in front of FAMU, and boy, FAMU—



	H:	Oh, no, no, no. It don’t bother me. [Laughter] It never bothered me. Let me tell you what makes up your mind: when you go and you work, let’s say, in the New York City School System like I did. Or you work in Los Angeles. And you start looking at the teachers and things they have there. Now, you deal with like the City College of New York. A lot of teachers were Jewish. They favored the Jewish students. So, I started learning at a very young age that a lot of education is about politics. So my thinking about a lot of these educational institutions has to do with who’s got power there. Now, if we had Black president over Florida State? Close it up. But that’s not coming no time soon. I’m about the reality that we have to deal with. The reality is that we have all these Black people around the country in small towns, in these big cities, and they need a place where they can get credentials. They need to earn a living just like the White guy does. If





everything was all equal? Yeah. But I know that it’s not. But you got to go back and look at my background: I’ve been a university professor at three universities in the United States. I know the politics of education. I lived at Swarthmore College, but I taught at Temple University. I was on the faculty at Temple there in Philadelphia. I know that geographic area he’s talking about really well. I used to visit Lincoln. I used to go out to see the Wyeths, those painters out of Bucks County, I think it is, up there in Pennsylvania. I went down to—where did Lincoln give that famous speech at?

	D:	Gettysburg.



	H:	I’ve been to Gettysburg many times. I was just at the whatdoyoucallit, in Philadelphia. Where the Liberty Bell is?

	MW:	Constitution Hall.



	H:	I was just there. I was down in Savannah. Is that the one on the water? MW:	School of Arts, Savannah School of Design.

	H:	Yeah, yeah. I was down there very recently. Like I say, I taught history for a long time. The United States, the way things work—like, go back and look at New York City’s School Board. Most of those guys were Jewish that were the head of the school board. Most of the kids that go to school in New York City are Hispanic or Black if you start looking at the numbers that are in New York. I think they had one Black chancellor over the years, a guy that came from the Rand Corporation. And I knew him personally, I forgot his name now. Los Angeles, the same kind of thing is going on. Education is political in the United States. If you look at these big cities, they’re not doing a good job. You start looking at a lot of





these small communities, the school system is still segregated. There’s a huge amount of real work that needs to be done. And I’m talking about serious work. I’m talking about things that deal with economics. I’m talking about jobs and opportunity. So we talk about equality, but if you really know and you move around the country as I’ve moved around—see, I was an organizer also at one time, for the government interestingly enough. I moved in and out of all these big cities, and I knew the communities very well. Because I was down at the community level doing work. Then living in a place like China, you start comparing things. And you can call it whatever you want to call it. You can call it dog a pig if you want to. So you can call it “democratic” if you want to, but if you start looking at what’s really going on, you got to deal with it from the heart, what is really happening there in terms of opportunities for the people.

	W:	Well, Matthis, in order to achieve real racial equality, we as a people—and I say we, us Blacks—we’ve got to get control over a certain amount of the economic base!

	H:	No question.



	W:	If we don’t want a part of the economic base, well then unh-uh!



	H:	Go back and look at what just transpired. I have a minor in economics also. You look at what just transpired. I forgot how much wealth was lost in the Black community.

	D:	Over the housing crisis?



	H:	Oh, yeah. It’s unbelievable! Whites lost also, but the percentage of their loss is



very different from the percentage of—. So you talking about people who are





middle class people, we talking about people with college education and stuff. They lost big time. Because a lot of those people were hoodwinked into these crazy mortgages and stuff. And a lot of people just trying to move up. A lot of the kids of these people are not going to college, because the money is just not there. So you got just goo-gobs of problems on the economic thing that he’s talking about here.

	W:	We built a Black shopping center here, and we had a feasibility study done, as to whether or not it would succeed. There was nothing like that shopping center anywhere around the area where it’s located. We had to depend upon it—like, it was a predominantly White area here, but they had no grocery store or anything of that sort out there. And then, here’s the Black areas. It was Lincoln Estate here. My nephew Arago, here, got into some serious difficulties that really frightened the devil out me. I had quite a little nest egg accumulated at that time. But I had to use my nest egg to defend him. I hired a law firm of three lawyers.

And they took turns in arguing and defending him. He was given an indeterminate sentence. Not definite, but indeterminate. These lawyers that I had to defend him, they were going to work to get him out of the thing as soon as they gave him the sentence! [Laughter]

	H:	Do you know where the shopping center that he’s talking about? D:	Uhn-uh.

	H:	Out there Waldo Road. It’s a church now. There’s one business in there.



	W:	But the thing I want to say about that thing: now, I tried to get them—I said, “Look here: now, if you want White people to patronize your business, your Black-





owned business, you got to hire some White people here to work in this business. You got to have—like at a big old store. You need some White clerks on the cash register. You need some Whites on the [inaudible 2:45:26] and things of this sort. Otherwise, they’ll boycott you. They had everything in the big old store. They had a big store, too. It was just as nice as any of those stores. But now, everything in it was Black except the butcher. The only reason why he wasn’t Black is because they couldn’t find a Black butcher. [Laughter] But now, had they integrated the whole staff, the thing would’ve probably still been in existence.

	H:	No, I think it was lost from the beginning, though. W:	No, I don’t think so.

	H:	I think the location.



	W:	No, no, no, Matthis. We had a feasibility study made. We had a feasibility study made. And they assured us that the possibility to succeed was real. And I believe it, too.

	H:	Look here: how you going to deal with something like Wal-Mart today? W:	Wal-Mart? Look here. Now you—

	H:	You got to have loyal customers.



	W:	Wal-Mart started in a small country town in Arkansas. H:	Oh, I know. Bentonville, Arkansas. I know it.

	W:	They strictly believe in exploiting labor. Wal-Mart does.





	H:	Oh, yeah. They still do it. I just heard a story the other day that I couldn’t believe.



Did you know that when you go to Wal-Mart and you get meat, they don’t have no butchers in their stores? Everything comes in frozen.

	MW:	I don’t shop for food at Wal-Mart. I try to go as little as possible.



	H:	What happened is that some guy was able to unionize one of their stores, and the company, they said, “That’s it.” So what you do is you have your butchers independent of the store. So the stuff is already cut up and brought in.

	D:	You got a third-party manufacturer.



	H:	That dealt with the butchers. The reason I mention what I did is that we have Wal-Mart in China. They are all over China, but so are these British stores, these French stores.

	D:	Carrefour.



	H:	Yeah. And German, by the way, too. But if you look at a company like Wal-Mart that can dictate the price that they going to pay for a product, tell you how to package it, tell you what time it has to be at their store; how the hell you going to compete with a company like that? They not the only one. Costco. I shop at Costco. Costco is only second to Wal-Mart in terms of the amount of money that it makes every year. They do the same thing! They the ones that started that junk, I think, in terms of dictating about the commodity, and how much you can charge them for it. But when you dealing with something like that, and you talking about opening up a corner store? You got to be out of your damn mind.

	W:	I feel that we ought to take them boycotts to Wal-Mart.



	H:	I think that would be a good idea, but I don’t think a damn thing would happen.







W:

Huh?

H:

I don’t think a damn thing would happen.

W:

Because they outsourcing jobs and all this kind of thing. You pay the people who



work here in the store two dollars an hour—

H:

J, you are dealing with a company like that that is one of the top ten companies



in the country—

W:

In the world.

H:

That’s like a gnat on a damn elephant, there.

W:

It’s world, Matthis, now. It’s the largest in the world.

H:

Oh, I know. I know.

W:

You know Webb’s City used to be largest in America.

H:

I remember that. I remember that.

W:

In St. Petersburg.

H:

But that company is out of this world. The things that they can do.

D:

I have a question.

W:

If they outsourced our jobs, I think we ought to boycott them and don’t buy their



products.

H:

What do you mean about that?

D:

I heard they used to have a Black bookstore in Gainesville.

W:

Huh?

D:

I heard they used to have a Black bookstore in Gainesville.

W:

Bookstore?

D:

Yeah. I heard there was one in the [19]90s called Third Eye, something like that.





	W:	Don’t know, but I went to Books-a-Million one time, tell you about an experience when I went out there. I went out there to buy a book one time. Let’s see, what was the book? They didn’t have the book there in the store on the shelf. They would order it for you. So I wanted to read My Father, in pre-paid. Cash for the book. They wouldn’t accept my money. They wanted me to give them a credit card number for that book. And I didn’t have a credit card. Didn’t want a credit card. But they wanted a credit card. That’s the only way I could’ve gotten that book, is with a credit card.

	H:	I don’t know much about Books-a-Million, but you know that it’s a Miami millionaire that owns Book-a-Million.

	W:	Oh, yeah?



	H:	This guy’s a billionaire or millionaire.



	W:	You can find a lot of businesses like that now, Matthis. H:	That’s the old Barnes and Noble.

	W:	They want you to pay with a credit card. Then they’ll take the payment on installment.

	H:	I have them. I have them. Anything I don’t have, my wife has it. We don’t have no problem. I’m going get six tires for my car, I got cash in my pocket to pay for it; but we going be paying for it with a credit card. I’m going put that on Costco. My wife has an American Express Costco. That’s what they going to pay for it with.

	D:	Build the credit.



	H:	Yeah. Because I want to have a good record of my transaction. I don’t want it to get lost. Because I’m going to go back there three years later and say, “These





maypops.” [Laughter] But when you go to Costco, they give you a whole book. They got tires right here cheaper than the ones that I go to Costco and get, but the warranty, or the guarantee, or whatever they give you, it’s really good. Like a fool, I threw away one of the tires that I had on there. I was up North during the Christmas holidays and forgot that those tires were heavily warranted. So, I took the tire and threw it away like a fool. But I’m going to go and put all new tires on my truck. Well, Mr. Welsh, have you exhausted yourself now?

	W:	Yeah, I guess I am getting there.



	MW:	This has been very thorough. [Laughter] I know he’s exhausted. We would love to have him back again, and get a review of what we’ve talked about, and ask you further questions. Your knowledge is expansive, and we appreciate it so much. We hope to spend more time with you.

	H:	Did you get a chance to look at any of the—because Mr. Welsh brought articles and things, also.

	MW:	I have not seen any of them. We got photo. We got to copy them.



	H:	Yeah, you need to scan some of these articles. He’s got one particular one there. W:	I didn’t have one there.

	H:	You remember one, J?



	MW:	We’d love to hold on to them for a little bit, if you’d trust us to do that. And also, while we’re scanning them, in order to use this discussion, we have a release that we need to ask you to sign for us. It’s called a deed of gift. And that other gentlemen, he left before he signed it, too, didn’t he? So until we get it from him, we can’t use it anyhow, because it’s all of us together.





	M:	I mean, this is not the last interview here. So.



	MW:	I’m just saying we need to make sure we got all of those, or we can’t use them. D:	I’m going to get them for you. Sorry.

	M:	Now, this is the one you showed me before, isn’t it? W:	Yeah.

	M:	Yeah, it’s got— W:	His mortar.

	MW:	Yeah, Deborah said we can go through—? D:	Scanner?

	M:	Well, she just locked up her office. So. D:	Is Tamarra in?

	MW:	They’re encased in plastic. So, we have to use the other scanner. D:	The blacklight scanner?

	MW:	We have to use Deborah’s scanner. You don’t use the other scanner for that. M:	Oh, right!

	MW:	We use the other scanner. M:	I forgot about that.

	D:	I can scan them if you want. M:	Yeah. Here, I can set this up. D:	I will be right back.

	MW:	These are two-sided forms.



	H:	How did you know about Carrefour, man? D:	I spent some time in Dubai.





	H:	Oh, okay. Okay, yeah. What’s the German company? And then, there’s a French one. Carrefour is French. But the English one is the largest one in the world.

	D:	Which one is that?



	H:	I can’t think of the name of it. I’ll look it up.



	MW:	On the very top line, sir, if you would print your name? H:	Okay.

	M:	Oh, I thought we were—that’s going to be the form, then? MW:	Yeah, we use two.

	M:	Oh, okay. We’re going to use two for the same interview.



	MW:	We will sign all of them, but one for each of the different gentlemen. Then we’ll sign on each of them. The three of us.

	H:	The next line? Which one? Do you want the signature on the next line? MW:	What does it say? Does it say “interviewee”?

	H:	Mmhm.



	M:	Would you like me to? You have to print your name in here? Did you want me to write that for you? Or do you want to do it? On that side.

	H:	Do you want this thing dated?



	MW:	Yes, please. Let’s see. The nineteenth. Which is important, because today is fifty-three years since Patricia Stevens Due was sitting in the Leon County Jail.

Martin Luther King sent her a telegram that said, “Stay in jail.” That was fifty-three years ago today. So after you get those two lines, if you go to the bottom and print out your mailing address where we can send something to you, and you know you’ll receive it.





	W:	Address?



	M:	Yeah, your address right there.



	H:	Oh, that’s what that was. Just make sure you don’t include any of my cursing in there, because I’m an upstanding citizen in my community. [Laughter]

	W:	I can only think my zip code is 33024.



	M:	Okay, I had a different address for you. Is that your preferred mailing, or—? W:	Don’t need to print this, too?

	M:	Oh, you don’t have to put Gainesville. If you have your zip code, though, we can. H:	The address that he’s giving you, that’s his mailing address.

	MW:	Just a place where we can send something, and he will receive it. H:	Either one of them, he’ll get it.

	M:	Would you like to put a phone number on there? Oh, wait. A phone number’s good if you can put that right there.

	MW:	Then if you do email, if you will list that, too.



	M:	Oh, there’s one more line. It’s that top line there. If you can sign that. H:	You want something up here?

	M:	Yeah, you can just print your name right there. And I will have to—thank you.



Let’s see. The nineteenth, right?



	MW:	It is the nineteenth, yes.



	M:	Thank you. You also got to get the top line.



	H:	I hope you send me a copy of this here, because this is unbelievable. M:	Yeah.

	MW:	We can make a copy of it for it, you know?





	H:	I need to get my lawyer to lay eyes on this here. You know that I have two attorneys in my family, right?

	M:	Oh, yeah?



	H:	So, we love lawsuits. One of them graduated from the University of Florida, as a matter of fact.

	M:	Oh, yeah?



	H:	My nephew.



	MW:	We have an incredible general counsel’s office— H:	Matt.

	W:	I heard it on TV, where a person went to a doughnut shop and bought some doughnuts, and then took and crushed up some razor blades, put them in the donuts, ate the razor blades in the donuts, and then attempted to sue the people. I say, now isn’t that something? [Laughter]

	H:	There’s all kind of fools in the world. W:	Boy, that’s something!

	H:	Finding Florida. I like that title.



	M:	Yeah, that is a new one. Paul, our director, showed that to me. Written by a journalist from somewhere, I forget where.

	H:	I have the story of—what’s his name? But I had to threaten the president of the university. I won’t give you the long version, I’ll give you the short one. But the president of Florida A&M and the dean of students—it was mostly the dean of students, because he was in control of the jobs, the patronage—he wouldn’t give me a job. So, we had a nice discussion with him, and then I had three jobs, every





term I was at the university. My most interesting job was I worked in the vice- president’s office. I think the vice-president was Gray at the time. So that turned out to be real interesting, because I dealt with financial stuff. Student loan money. So I ended up being one of the most popular people on the campus, because I didn’t even know about this. Students wanted to know if their money came in. So if I remembered, I could tell them. “Come to my office, and I’ll make sure you get that money.” Because you had to sign for it in order for it to be released. So that was one my jobs as an undergraduate at Florida A&M, dealing with the student money. Another one was the theater. And another one was the cafeteria. Now, all those places were very popular places at the university, because I could I look at you and decide that I might want to let you come in the movie free. And you don’t have no money, and you got your girlfriend, and you all dressed up. You might have another problem where you starving. And I was a lowly dishwasher, but I had access to plates coming out of there. [Laughter] So, I helped a lot of student that were hungry in the days that I was there! So I became very popular on the campus, because of the jobs that I had.

	MW:	You had the hook up.



	H:	Oh, yes. Oh, yes. So, I had a lot of fun there at Florida. W:	Matthis, you remember Red Frank? He was a judge.

	H:	I know the name. I didn’t know him. I know Atkins. Both of the Atkins.



	W:	When I was fourteen years of age, I was in charge of the kitchen at College Inn at night. I was a short-order cook. But I was in charge of the whole thing, and he





worked under my auspices. So when I went to his office one time about a matter, he would tell the cooks, “This here is my boss.” I was.

	H:	A lot of the governors were Mother’s students. They worked under her. So that’s why when I went to Florida A&M, and they started acting up, I never had any real trouble. Because I told them that we would have them visit one of the distinguished offices on that other hill over there, and they got the picture. So, they stopped messing with me.

	D:	Can I get a picture of y’all before you head out? H:	Mmhm.

	D:	I think I got my camera in my backpack, wherever that is. Big old buddy.



	MW:	Okay, someone else can snap it for us. If Scott Kraff is here, we should be okay, or anybody else that you trust.

	H:	So what do you do here? MW:	Like I’m doing now. [Laughter]

	H:	Are you one of the people on the faculty?



	MW:	I do teach. I am an adjunct instructor at the College of Business. I coach with the UF Debate Team. And also, the three of us work together. I am titled the coordinator of this program. It’s mostly a shared burden.

	M:	We work specifically on African American History Project. You know how that works. The funding is separate, so we are our entity.

	H:	But everybody collaborates.



	M:	Yeah. Well, everybody kind of collaborates, but over there, they get paid to do other stuff.





MW: Basically, these guys are active graduate students, where I am a staff position. In between a graduate assignment.

	H:	Yeah, that’s what I thought. He told us all about himself.



MW:  They don’t let me hold on to a title, I think, because I did it for two years for free. If they can do a job for free, people are like, “Oh, he did for free, let him just hold onto it.”

	H:	I tell him I have no free work these days. Matter of fact, the job I was just negotiating in Saudi Arabia, that job is seven thousand dollars a month.

	MW:	I learned about that. I used to think, do what you do and give it away for free, and it will make you happy. But you are not going to be happy.

	H:	I have never had any free jobs. One free job I had was, I was a VISTA volunteer when I graduated from college. And that was one of the wisest decisions I made. That’s when I first started working as an organizer. Got some expert experience out in Detroit. That’s why when I look at Detroit now, I want to cry. Because I saw Detroit from the bottom up. I was there when they had the riots in Detroit.

	MW:	It was someplace different. If we going outside. We are going to do outside, Scott.

	W:	Matt, you know Tom Coward’s bigger brother? He was in the Service. He had a particular job in the service. After he got out of the Service, the government hired him to do see over a job as a civilian overseas.

	H:	I got a guy a right now who has a job like that that I’m dealing with over in Japan. W:	Oh, yeah?

	H:	Yeah.





	MW:	All right.



H: This is somebody’ coffee cup here. MW: You can leave that, sir. We’ll get it. M:  We’ll deal with that.

	MW:	I’ll do the date. March 19th, 2013. D:	Justin Dunnavant, Marna Weston. MW:	Ryan—

	D:	Morini. MW:	Morini.

	D:	With Professor Welsh.



	MW:	And two other awesome guys. We will get you the information later. Peace out. [Laughter]

	SK:	And Scott!



	MW:	And Scott. [Laughter] [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Derick Gomez, June 22, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, April 9, 2018

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 23, 2019