AAHP 223; Williams; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 223 Byran Williams African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Emily Nyren on November 28, 2011



Abstract: Byran Williams reflects on his experience attending Douglass Elementary and Middle School in High Springs, Florida. He remembers the jobs his parents and grandparents worked in the town. The interviewee explains his path to becoming a minster and eventually being the preacher for the church he grew up attending in High Springs. After seeing the discrimination coming from the town commission, Williams was inspired to get involved as an advocate for African Americans in the community, and eventually became mayor. He expresses the hope that Barack Obama’s election gave him although he acknowledges the anger and backlash that has come from an African American man being serving as president. He discusses his desire for the people of High Springs to vote and to oppose the still-present racism in High Springs.

He comments on how in his eighth grade year, schools integrated and he experienced much discrimination, although by the end of senior year everyone generally got along.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Local Government, Integration]





































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 223

Interviewee: Reverend Byran Williams Interviewer: Emily Nyren

Date: November 28, 2011



	N:	Hello, this is Emily Nyren on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program.



I’m with Reverend Byran Williams from High Springs, Florida, and today is Monday, November 28, 2011, and we’re conducting the interview on the University of Florida campus. So, before we begin, I just want to say thanks again for meeting with me.

	W:	You’re welcome.



	N:	And I guess the first question I want to ask you is, I know that Marna told me that you went to Douglass High School, so just kind of what that was like. Maybe like classes you took or since you lived your whole life in High Springs, kind of how has that affected your life and especially Douglass High School.

	W:	Okay, yes. Well at that time it was called Douglass Elementary and Middle School when I started going there. It was an African American school, and it mostly it had mostly African American teachers at that time. They were very personal with you, because most of the teachers you knew from the community also. So they were very close to us. And as far as the school, I remember the principal Mr. Effie Welch, who is still living at this time, had at that time took young men as myself and kind of mentored us. One of the things I remember him teaching us was you could never hit a girl. In spite if the girl hit us first, we couldn’t hit young ladies. And another thing I remember about that school was how we used to do prayer in school. Even on some days we used to have assembly before we had class. We had prayer and a lot of teachers would have us to memorize bible scriptures in the class. And one of the main things I





remember about during those days was even a substitute teacher by the name of Ms. Taylor—she used to have us to read the newspaper on the weekends. And when we come back to school on that Monday we wouldn’t know what questions she was gonna ask us about the newspaper, but we had to know an article in the newspaper; whatever she may come up with. No matter what she came up with we had to know something about the newspaper. So we would have to read the entire newspaper, because we didn’t know what she might ask us to answer about; answer questions on. And mostly I remember best about Douglass was, back in those days, the plays we used to do, how we used to come together on weekends and we used to have plays; different plays. And to see our parents in the auditorium was an awesome experience, very awesome experience.

	N:	Very cool. So you definitely think like the current events that Ms. Taylor—that was her name?

	W:	Yes.



	N:	You think that helped play a role in the community involvement because you knew what was going on in High Springs because you had to read the newspaper?

	W:	Yes, yes. And to be quite honest with you she wrote an article in the High Spring Herald.

	N:	Oh okay. At that time? W:	Yes.

	N:	Very cool. So, did your parents and grandparents grow up in High Springs? W:	Yes.





	N:	And did they also go to Douglass?



	W:	No. My mother may have went there maybe a few years, but no. At that time Douglass wasn’t built when they were—when my parents were going to school. I’m trying to think of the name of the school that they went to, because they used to live, we didn’t live in High Springs, but they lived in a little area called—well I can’t remember the community they used to live in, but they had their own school out there.

	N:	So do you think your parents and grandparents living in High Springs that’s why you continue to live there? Because of the, you have such a family history of being there so you didn’t want to move away.

	W:	Yes, yes. I was born and raised there. Born by a midwife. N:	Oh, okay.

	W:	Yes, the house that I was born in is still standing. N:	Do you still live there?

	W:	No, no. [Laughter] Somebody bought it and they remodeled it now. N:	And do you have any siblings?

	W:	Yes, two sisters.



	N:	And do they live in High Springs as well?



	W:	One in High Springs and one here in Gainesville. N:	Oh okay, so it’s very close-knit.

	W:	Yes.





	N:	Very nice. And about your parents and grandparents, whichever you want to talk about first, what did they do for a living? Did it have like any effect on what you do now with being a Reverend and involved in politics?

	W:	Well I’ll talk about my grandmother first. Well my grandfather died years ago. He used to be a farmer. My grandmother, I can remember when I was a kid, she used to work at a restaurant, she was a cook. And the very restaurant that she used to work in, we couldn’t go inside.

	N:	Okay.



	W:	We couldn’t go inside. We had to go to the back door to receive food. And that had a big impact on my life because I can remember very well when I was a kid there used to be a grocery store downtown and we was taught as kids to respect our elders. “Yes, ma’am.” “Ms. so and so.” And I’ll never forget one Saturday we had went to town and this young White female spoke to my grandmother and she called her “Lucille.” And then my grandmother answered her, “Miss” whatever her name was during that time. So my question was to my grandmother, why she disrespect you like that? You called her “Miss” but she called you “Lucille.” She didn’t explain it to me at that time in the store, but she just rushed me out of the store at that time. But when I got home she kind of explained to me the reason why that was taking place.

	N:	With experiences like that, was that typical for, did she explain it to you later on or did they kind of not talk about kind of the discrepancy in the way that, the treatment? Was, say, segregation or if you were to go to the restaurant where





she worked, was it something that you knew outright from them talking to you about it?

	W:	Yes. They explained to us what was going on. They even as far as some of the Caucasian males in the community we were—they would inform us to kind of stay away from them, because they knew they were very racist. So they kind of trained us who to stay away from.

	N:	In order to protect you. W:	Yes.

	N:	Because you’re still talking about your grandmother, because she, this restaurant that she worked at, was that in High Springs as well?

	W:	Yes.



	N:	Marna wanted to know if you know of any local business owners still or from that time that like particularly stood out to you. Whether it was just in the African American community or because it was a smaller, close-knit community. As far as local businesses that you remember.

	W:	Mr. Clyde Watkins. N:	What did he do?

	W:	He owned the grocery store. N:	Okay.

	W:	Yes. Well it was the African American store that was there. You know he sold cookies, candies. I can remember the big cookies for two for a penny. Days are long gone.

	N:	Yeah.





W:  Mr. Clyde’s store and basically the thing I can remember about Mr. Clyde was he didn’t have a cash register. He had a newspaper sitting on the table and any time he’d want to make change he went up under the newspaper to make change and he’d put a paper, the money up under the newspaper.

N:  That’s very cool. Was there any sort of credit system? Or was it mostly just cash? W:  Cash. Now the other store that was right in front of my home it was Ms. Wiggins.

She was a White lady. And she gave credit to the community.



	N:	And was that store open to everyone?



	W:	Yes. It was in the African American community. N:	Okay.

	W:	Yes.



	N:	And that was across the street from his store or—?



	W:	No that was down on the other side of town down from my home—where I lived at.

	N:	And, back to your parents, what did they do?



	W:	My grandmother, like I said, she was a cook at Barber’s restaurant. And my mother, she worked, at a young age, she worked at the chicken house back in those days. And then she finally got the job at—back in those days it was called Sunland, but now I think it’s called Tacachale with the mentally challenged kids be at. Yeah, she worked there for I believe thirty-five or forty years until the time she retired.

	N:	So was that more like a school or where they lived?



	W:	Where they lived. A residence for mentally challenged people.





	N:	And did they, your family, have any like specific stories that you remember growing up that you heard all the time? I know my grandmother tells the same stories all the time.

	W:	Yeah, like one about my grandfather and my uncle. My grandfather’s mother was a Cherokee Indian. So his sisters was light-skinned. They were very attractive young ladies. And one Saturday my aunt had went downtown and there was a Caucasian male putting his hands on her. Touched her inappropriately. So she went back and told my grandfather and my uncle. So they went back downtown and beat up the Caucasian males that had touched her inappropriately—in an inappropriate way. I mean, they said they put a whooping on them. I always tell that story to my grandkids these days. The other Caucasian males in town found out they had beat up these White mens then they went out to the farm to try to get them—to try to kill ‘em. But the man that my grandfather was farming with, I can’t remember I think his last name was Summers if I’m not mistaken, they wouldn’t allow them to mess with them

	N:	That’s good. Now since you are a Reverend, were there any growing up either within your family or outside of your family any specific people that maybe influenced you to go into the ministry or get involved in politics?

	W:	No not really, none of my family members. When I was a kid we didn’t have a choice about going to church. Sunday school and church that was a must. So it was instilled in me to go to church. As far as any of my mother or father I’m the first—let’s see—am I the first? Yes. I’m the first minister in my family.





	N:	Very nice. And do you think maybe one of the reasons was because of living in High Springs for so long and you know the closeness of the community obviously being involved with the church so closely you’re going to get to know like the broadest amount of people?

	W:	Yeah, well before I started ministering in High Springs I was here in Gainesville. I didn’t have intentions of going back to High Springs but I lived in Gainesville for a little while. But it was on my heart to go back to High Springs, because a young man that used to live in the community, played in the park with me, he went off to play NFL football and he became a millionaire. And my thing was he never did take any, bring anything back to High Springs. And so I used to fuss about that and then something came across my mind, “Well, you never took anything back to High Springs and you have something much greater.” What I mean by that is my Christianity and my teaching I had with the Bible. So that’s actually how I ended up going back to High Springs; to get involved in the community of High Springs.

	N:	Very nice. And since you are a Reverend at Mt. Carmel, could you tell me a little bit more about what that entails as your role as a Reverend?

	W:	Well Mt. Carmel, that’s my home church. That’s the church I went to when I was a kid.

	N:	Okay.



	W:	So I ended up going back over just to visit and ended up being a part of it. And when I first got there I was just going. And the Reverend, the pastor there at that time, kind of pushed me along to say come on get involved. I guess he seen





something in me, my leadership abilities or whatever. But he kind of pushed me along, which we had to be in that church for two years, active member for two years before you could become a minister, but he wanted to rush me through fast but I wouldn’t let him. So that prove to him how I got involved once he seen me and he started working with me also. That’s how I got involved with it and just started from there. And I been there for fourteen years now.

	N:	Were you involved there before you decided to get involved with politics?



	W:	Yes, at the church. Yeah and that’s how I got involved because once I became the pastor in the community, I always believed being a pastor in the community you need to be involved in the community. Because that’s your community. Even if you don’t live in that community I think you should be involved in the community activities. And at that time there wasn’t an African American serving on the Commission in High Springs.

	N:	Okay.



	W:	And I started going to the meetings, and I just couldn’t believe how they conducted them self at that time. It seemed like I was still in the [19]50s and the [19]60s and this was in the—I guess that would be in the [19]90s when I started going up to the City Commission meetings. I mean they actually treated African Americans like they were just second-class citizens.

	N:	Right.



	W:	I mean I actually seen some Commissioner sitting on the dais when African Americans used to ask for things they would actually laugh at them. And so that’s what how I pretty much started getting involved with the meetings. I started going





to the meetings and in the issues that deal with the African American community, I kind of started speaking up for the African American community. And then we decided ‘cause the last commissioner that served was Ms. Essie Gassett who was my kindergarten teacher she died. And then after she died no one served there for many, many years until I started serving. I think I was the third African American to ever serve on the City Commissioner meetings; the City Commission. So that got me involved. So I started going through the community asking other people to run! But nobody would do it. So, since no one else would do it, I decided to do it. Because it wasn’t my desire to but couldn’t get anyone else to do it.

	N:	You wanted to have their voices be heard.



	W:	Yes, yes. I believe that there should be diversity sitting up there. I think the Commission should look like the community

	N:	Right. So that was the reason you decided to get involved in the local elections and my understanding is you were recently Vice Mayor of High Springs.

	W:	Vice Mayor, yeah.



	N:	So before that you were—you started out on the Commission—the City Commission. And then you worked your way up to mayor and then vice mayor?

	W:	Well what they do is they they rotate it. They give basically everybody a chance to serve as the mayor and vice mayor.

	N:	Oh, okay.



	W:	It depends on the Commissioners.





	N:	And being an elected leader in the community and then also a minister how has that kind of shaped your broader understanding or perceptions about the community or in general?

	W:	In general—well from, from serving from both aspects from a politician and a community I got a broad look at the community. I mean I actually seen what was going on in the community on both ends. I always told people when I was serving on the Commission that it was part of my ministry. Because I’m a person that always like to help. And a lot of the judges want to help people make sure they get, be treated fair, be just to ‘em and give them what’s right to them. And by sitting on that Commission it made me see things a lot, lot more clear to what’s best for the citizens of High Springs. And let me say this: while I was sitting up there I didn’t just serve the African American community. I always told people I served the community of High Springs, because I feel like the African community is a part of the city of High Springs. It’s a whole city. It’s not broken down into different sides of town.

	N:	And do you think that since you’ve gotten involved in politics that you’ve seen a change in the way that, say the City Commission meetings are run?

	W:	Oh, yes. Yes, because definitely at that time well that’s why I think it’s always so important for someone to be sitting there to represent the African American community. Then that way you have your eyes on what’s going on in the city.

And the grants coming through there and anything that’s dealing with the city to make sure they get their fair part of what’s coming through the city. Yes.





	N:	And in my class we’ve talked a lot about different perceptions on the fact that President Obama was elected. What are your thoughts on that? I know that in 2012 there will be another election, but did you think that that was—just kind of what your thoughts were on the fact that he was elected?

	W	Oh that was, well that night was a grand thing for us that night to see an African American male, because to be honest with you I never thought in my lifetime I would see anything like that. Yes, to see an African American and send such a— such a positive message, especially to African American males that you can be president. You can be someone. Because a lot of times what happens was African American males they always hear the negative instead of seeing the positive. Because I’m a firm believer you have more good people in your community than bad people. And these good people need to see the positive, and the bad people need to see the positive. And that was a grand night for me to see that. Knowing that I came here on the last part of the [19]60s movement to see him in office was wonderful. I think at this time after he did get elected; it brought out a lot of anger. I can kind of still see that now with some of the things that be said and done with him. It seem like the country is angry now for some reason. That’s just my perspective.

	N:	Mmhm, yeah.



	W:	It’s like just angry.



	N:	More so than just to do with politics but maybe the fact that he’s African American.

	W:	That he’s African American.





N:   Yeah.



	W:	Yes; an intelligent African American. N:	Right.

	W:	Yes.



	N:	And that was not the perception for so long. W:	Yes.

	N:	Interesting. Now, what are your plans for the future? Do you want to continue being involved in politics or just primarily with Mount Carmel or—?

	W:	Well they say once you in politics you in politics. You never do get out, even if you not sitting at the dais you still involved in politics. Yes I’m going to continue being involved in the community. In the political arena and also in the faith-based community.

	N:	By mentoring at the elementary school, was that because you were mentored in elementary school and you wanted to continue that?

	W:	Yes.



N:   Because that was positive for you?



W:  Yes, because that’s—it’s so important. I was raised by a single mother. So there was some mens in the community that took me and mentored me, although they didn’t call it mentoring back in those days, but that was what they was doing.

N:   Right.



	W:	A man by the name of Mr. Moes Johnson worked on the railroad and used to live right across the street from me. He mentored me. He took me in his house, he used to take me around with him different places cause he’s considered as rich,





because he worked for the railroad. He had the new cars and the nice homes. My uncle, he worked for the railroad. He pretty much took me under. One of the things I remember best ‘bout him best was he was a military man. I could never walk in his house with my shirt hanging out my pants. I had to have my shirt in my pants and if I had a belt on, I’d have to have it lined up. I mean, that’s the way it was, but he instilled that in me. He taught me how to use a wrench, he taught me how to change oil in the car, he taught me how to clean cars. He took me and mentored me as a young man. And so I just want—I want to do the same thing with young people in the community at this time to mentor them.

	N:	So the community involvement you definitely think is important in maintaining more cohesive values in High Springs and making sure everyone is on the same page?

	W:	Yes. Yes and they used to have a saying years ago when I was coming up, ‘it take a village to raise a child’ and I still want that village to be there to raise our kids.

	N:	Right. Well let me see and make sure I have everything—I guess I remember earlier you said that you have grandchildren. So my question, I guess, is do your children and grandchildren also live in High Springs?

	W:	No. I would say some here in Gainesville and my oldest son and his children live in Tennessee.

	N:	Okay. And you’ve been involved in—the ones that live in Gainesville do you see them a lot, or have they, I don’t know how old they are, but do they have any aspirations relating to the church or politics or anything yet?





	W:	I don’t know. I don’t know. [Laughter] N:	With time?

	W:	Yes, with time you can tell that one. That’s a hard one. I know my son—nah!



Neither one of them. My daughter, I don’t think so. Who knows?



	N:	When you were raising them, were there specific things that, like your story that you said about your Uncle’s sister the one about beating up the White man that inappropriate, was that something that you continued to tell? Were there other things that you passed along to them?

W:  Yes, yes. Tell ‘em. Tell them where we came from, what kind of family we had, and most of all they love the story about being a Seminole Indian. Yeah, I even have the pictures of my—that would be my great-great grandmother, yeah.

Especially my son he loved to hear the old stories. Especially about my grandfather, he liked to hear that one. You know the tales—stories I’d tell ‘em about their family, about how we used to be such a close-knit family. I try to instill into them my cousins we was more like sisters and brothers than we was cousins. Because pretty much like I had cousins that used to come from the Tampa area, they used to stay with us and I mean it was just that close-knit.

	N:	Right.



	W:	I tried to explain to them after my grandmother died, and then her sisters started dying off, and then my mother passed away. It felt like we started losing that family unity. So I’ve been trying to explain to them how important that.

	N:	Bring it back.



	W:	Bring it back, yes.





	N:	I guess one last question would be are there any changes that you see, I know you’re going to continue to be involved in the church and politics, that you hope to affect change in? That you want, whether it be in High Springs, or just in general? The misconception, let’s say, about Barack Obama and how there’s an underlying problem with—whether just because of the fact that he’s African American. Is there certain things that you see problems with and want to change?

	W:	Yes. To be quite honest with you, I’ve been going to different churches in the community the last couple of weeks. After the holidays is over with, we’re going to meet as a community where we can kind of start discussing things on that level; about Mr. Obama, about the election coming up in 2012, even the High Springs election next year ‘cause right now no one’s serving as an African American on the city of High Springs. ‘Cause what happened this last election was, I’m just gonna be honest with you, I’m gonna start being open with you, the Tea Party came together in High Springs.

	N:	Okay.



	W:	And worked against me to be sitting up there, and it worked. Because this election we had I think at least eight hundred people show out—show up. And that’s who it was that showed up. The Tea Party showed up. Out of, I think we have thirty-two hundred resident voters, only eight hundred showed up.

	N:	And they were mostly Tea Party? W:	Yes.





N:  So do you think as the various churches coming together, you’d hope that by discussing hopes for the future, and especially the upcoming election, maybe you’ll work together to get out the fact that you need to vote?

W:  Yes. And that’s, that’s what I’ve been trying to tell ‘em. What we need to do is we need to organize, energize, and mobilize.

N:  That’s good. Did you come up with that? W:  Yes.

	N:	That’s good!



	W:	Yes, that’s what we’re trying to do, because we want, especially young people, it’s just so important, because I try to explain to them that people gave their life for them to have the right to vote. People gave their life for them to have the right to speak. People gave their life for them to have a good education. So don’t throw all that away. And I think it’s our responsibility, people my age now, to pass that on, because it was passed on to us. So I think we done kind of laid the ball down, but it’s time to pick the ball up again, and pass that on to our younger generation.

	N:	Especially at such a critical time. W:	Yes.

	N:	When it could shift drastically.



	W:	Yes, because it bothers me when I look at statistics. You have more African American males in prison than you do in college.

	N:	Right.



	W:	And all of them aren’t dumb kids.





	N:	Right.



	W:	Just—



	N:	Various different things, whether it be, you know as you said, not knowing as many positive things.

	W:	Yes.



	N:	Knowing more the negative. W:	Yes, yes.

	N:	So, I guess, is there anything else that you’d like to add? This interview is going into the archives at UF, but anything else that when people are listening to it, I don’t know how long, fifty years from now or tomorrow, anything that you would specifically like to add as far as certain things that you want to be remembered forever or your plans, specific plans, for the future or hopes or anything like that?

	W:	My hopes are, because it’s a wonderful country. I love America. I love it; love this country. It’s a wonderful country. All I just want to see is people just come together, work together and do what’s best for all people as a whole. I think this would be even a greater country if that was to happen.

	N:	Right.



	W:	Will it ever happen? N:	Hopefully.

	W:	I hope so. It’s possible. It’s possible. And I’m quite sure with you when you went to high school you probably went to school with African American kids, even elementary. You see, I didn’t have that opportunity.

	N:	Right.





	W:	And when I even first went to high school we did more fighting the first year than we did learning, because we had that, I don’t know, that hatred. It had been put into people, and so we had to fight. But by my senior year we had came together such in a way that we worked together. And we still friends today. Caucasians, African Americans, still friends today.

	N:	So you went to an integrated high school? W:	Yes.

	N:	And the elementary and middle schools were not.



	W:	Well middle school my first eighth grade year. Yeah my eighth grade year I went to Spring Hill. That was the new school they had built. It was one of the worst times of my life. And the reason I say that was, because here they had took me out of this environment and put me in another environment where some of these teachers actually told me that I could not learn as the White kids could learn.

They told me I wasn’t as smart as them and my thing was if I was smart over here, why can’t I be smart over here? So I had—my goal was to prove to them that I was just as smart as them.

	N:	And you did.



	W:	Yes. Yes I did.



	N:	Were there any African American teachers in this school?



	W:	The principal that used to be at Douglass, they made him the Vice Principal. N:	Okay.

	W:	Did any African American teachers go along with—? I can’t remember one teaching me, no.





	N:	And is that something that, I forgot to touch on this earlier so I’m glad you brought it up, but when your children were going to school did they experience similar things to that? I know they went to school after you but was there still some sort of—

	W:	No, no that was gone by the time. That was—.we tore that down. Like I said by my senior year we started—

	N:	Getting together. W:	Yeah.

	N:	And even the teachers as well, was there kind of a change in sentiment?



	W:	Yeah. Mostly I think they found out that we were just people just like anyone else.



And they seen good in us also, so yeah a lot of teachers.



	N:	So you think a lot of it was, the behavior, was based on the fact of ignorance towards similarities?

	W:	Let’s be for real, people was told that. N:	Right.

	W:	They was told that, so yes.



	N:	So that’s another way the community as wanting to reach out to all of High Springs, not just the African American community, informed of how alike everyone really is instead of focusing on the negative.

	W:	Is there racism still in High Springs? Yes. Yes, it’s still there. Yes I see it all the time, yeah.

	N:	Just to a lesser extent? W:	Uh-huh—well.





	N:	Maybe not?



	W:	Maybe not. You actually still see it there because we still have some of the people, I ain’t gonna call any names, but they’re still there.

	N:	Right.



	W:	I can remember when I first got elected, one of the Sunday school teachers at one of the local churches, Caucasian church, made the statement that I need to be put back in my place. What place that is, I don’t know. [Laughter] Yes, yes he’s still living. He still have that bigotry attitude. Yes.

	N:	Well, I guess that’s it, and if Marna has any more questions for you I’m sure he’ll be in contact with you.

	W:	Oh yes he will.



	N:	Since you guys are good friends. W:	Yes.

	N:	But thank you again for doing this. W:	Oh, you’re welcome.

[End of Interview]





	Audit-Edited by:	Jennifer Romero, February 21, 2018 Final Edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 21, 2019