AAAHP-484C; Nelson; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 484C John Nelson Interviewed by Paul Ortiz on December 1, 2017

1hour 25 minutes | 37 pages



Abstract: In this interview John Nelson talks about his experiences living in Monticello, Florida after living in Orlando Florida. He became heavily involved with the Veterans of Foreign Wars and the American Legion. At that time there were two separate VFWs and American Legions based on race. Nelson worked to merge the two. He was also a fire chief and a Chief Deputy for the office of the fire marshal.

Keywords: [African American History; Monticello, Florida; Maddison, Florida; Veterans of Foreign Wars; American Legeion; Desegregate;]



AAHP-484C

Interviewee: John Nelson Interviewer: Paul Ortiz Date: December 1, 2017



	O:	We’re here at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Laura Dixie. My name is Paul Ortiz. I’m with Mr. John Nelson, and Mr. Nelson, thank you so much for agreeing to do another interview--

	N:	[Laughter].



	O:	For the oral history program. N:	Yeah, good to see you again.

	O:	Wonderful. Well, we have—just working on the mic levels here. I think we’ve got a good mic level. Basically, I also want to start with the date, or my technical coordinator, Deborah Hendrix, will give me a good lecture. So it is Friday, December 1st. It’s 4:00p.m., and again, we’re here with Mr. John Nelson. We’re at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Laura Dixie, in Tallahassee, Florida. Mr. Nelson, last time we spoke, we spoke in depth about your time during the Vietnam War, in combat, and peace before and after, some of your experiences growing up.

There’s always so much to tell, but I wonder in the short time we have today, if you wouldn’t mind talking about this amazing work you did as a military veteran in integrating and equalizing, if you will, the Veterans of Foreign Wars.

	N:	Yes, and that’s a good topic primarily, and something that really hasn’t been a long time actually happening. In the year 2000--seeing that I actually returned from Vietnam in 1968 and having worked, never even thought about the coming a part of the Veteran of Foreign Wars or any post-military organization. But what happened after living in Monticello and residing there after returning from





Orlando, I was asked by a guy by the name of Eugene Lashores from Central Florida, from the St. Pete area, who was the In-State Commander for the VFW— he was visiting in the big gun area, and he was a friend of another guy who was a close friend of my brother-in-law’s, and so he had told him about me, and I didn’t know anything about Eugene Lashore, but they gave him my address, and he looked me up, and I’m wondering who this guy is after he had came to the house and identified himself. He said, “Well, your brother-in-law told me that you’re ex-military personnel.” I said, “Yes.” And he’s a good friend of another good friend of mine, who is also in the VFW that lives in Tampa. And so he said, “Well, I want to talk with you about post military organizations.” I say, “Well, what about them?” He said, “Are you a member of any of them?” I said, “Uhm, not really.” I said, “Only one. We have two organizations here, the American Legion. There are two, because they are separate organizations. There’s a White American Legion, and there’s a Black American Legion.” And I said, “There’s also VFW here, but there’s a White VFW—they don’t accept Black VFW members or Black people who are eligible for the VFW.” And he said, “Well, I happen to be the State Commander, and you tell me that they won’t accept.” He said, “That’s contrary to our constitutional bylaws, and those are the national constitutional bylaws. It also governed each state, because we are all affiliates of the national organization.” I said, “Oh. I didn’t know that.” “So that’s one reason I’m here. Because we have researched the area. There are over 300 African American veterans in this county, and you’re telling me that none have ever been?” I said, “Well, no. Not to my knowledge. But there are many of them that





are members of the Black American Legion, post 239. But no, VFW doesn’t accept.” And he said, “Well, let’s talk about that.” So we did. And he said, “Well, I’ll tell you what I’m going to do. I’m going to come back in about a week, and I’m going to bring my friend from Tampa who is very active in the VFW at the state level, who actually knows your brother-in-law. And so that’ll give you time to maybe set up a meeting,” and I said, “Okay. Alright.” And what I did was I met with the pastor of Bethel AME Church. They’re on York Street and Monticello.

And some of the old timers who was a Vietnam veteran, like I was, and to me, allowed me to set up a breakfast. So we had a nice breakfast that next Saturday there, and in the meantime, I had talked with about probably seventy-five veterans and told them, and a lot of these were already members of American Legion, and I said, “Well, we’re going to have this State Commander from the VFW.” And by the way, Gene Lashores, the first African American Commander of the VFW. And this was the year 2000. And so he came back, and he brought his other friend from Tampa with him, and so they came to this breakfast—oh man, it was a very nice thing. Grits, eggs, ham, sausage, good old country breakfast, biscuits and all of that. Toast. And we had a great meeting that morning, and I’m trying to remember the other name of the guy cause he went on to become State Commander a little later on. But what he did was he talked about can two organizations coexist in Jefferson County, and the subject matter was, yes they can, because two organizations or two posts of the same organization, the American Legion, had coexisted. And it was ironic that they had never merged.

And so at that meeting, after we finished talking about that—but most of these





guys in there were members of American Legion. The question is whether or not they would also join the American Legion—which were already members of American Legion. Would they be interested in joining the VFW, cause they were eligible, and the difference is, in the two organizations, was that to be a member of the VFW, you must have been a person who had been in an area on the hostel fire, or you must have been a member of a organization of the military, whether you’re Army, Navy, Marine, whatever. You must have also been involved in war or combat, and that made that VFW, which was the Veterans of Foreign Wars, a very unique organization. And so a number of the guys, “Yeah, they don’t have any problem with being a member of American Legion and VFW”, and so at that time, Gene Lashore said, “Okay, yeah. Tell you what. I’ve got some applications here. Why don’t we go ahead, and let’s get these guys to fill these applications out, and then you apply for a charter. And lo and behold, fifty guys signed up. We only needed twenty-five, but fifty guys signed up, and Lashore gave me the application for charter. We filled that out and, in the process, he said, “Well, in doing so, you have to elect a Commander, and, well, there are basic offices that you have to have in the organization.” And so what they ended up doing, they said, “Well, why don’t you do this? Let Nelson be the Commander. You have a problem with that?” [I said], “No, I guess not, if that’s your choice.” I said, “I don’t mind taking the lead as your brother.” And I was elected the Commander, and we had others, the senior-vice, junior-vice, quarter- master, which is the treasurer person, and so we got that together, and of course, we already had the organization part of it put together. And we filled out





all the paperwork and just sent it up, so a month later, we had our charter. So we became a separate organization from the other, which was a historic name.

Boots Thomas was one of the guys in Monticello that helped raised the flag on Hiroshima, in Japan. Well, the Boots Thomas is memorialized name in Jefferson County, Monticello. And there’s a statue on Highway 90, going west from Monticello. It’s the Boots Thomas Memorial. And so we established VFW post 251, and that was my beginning there, and I actually led them for five years, and of course, what happened in those five years is that we grew, but from two years, we had over almost a hundred members. And about the third year of my leadership, we had one hundred twenty-six members, with thirty of those being World War ll veterans that I had personally recruited, and we were just talking about Eddie Barring. Eddie Barring was one of those that I signed. And the guy that just received the Congressional Gold Medal from President Obama, Ernie Sneed who was a ninety-seven year-old Montford Point Marine that, you know the story of the Montford Point Marines. President Roosevelt had to sign an executive order to integrate the Marine Corps back in 1942. Ernie Sneeve was one of those young guys, about in his twenties, that became a group of those members who were involved with the—it was twenty thousand of those that were trained in Camp Muntford, which, Parris Island was, at that time, a segregated Marine base that they didn’t allow, even when they created the Marine Corps that integrated Marines, they wouldn’t allow them to go on Parris Island. So about thirty-some, forty miles down the road, it was Camp Muntford Point, and that’s where they trained those twenty thousand Black Marines. But I was instrumental





in getting those World War ll guys together, and I took a real liking to the World War ll fellows, because lot of those guys almost had been forgotten in the community, nobody cared for them. But I once reform VFW post 251, I basically made certain that those World War ll veterans were really cared for. I made my point. Once a month, I made sure I made at least one visit. Just as we’re sitting and talking now, that’s what I did with the World War II veterans, and even the few that we have now, I do the same thing. I visit Mr. Sneed and Dennis Gallum, which was a neighbor from World War II that was with me. There was a big Navy event that happened in World War II. It was called the—scrutiny, I’m trying to think of the name of it. It was where these aminations exploded. It was out in California, killed ports. Anyway, Gallum was involved in that because he was part of that ammo and one of the survivors. Of course, he is ninety-three years old today. After about five years leading 251, I noticed that when we met in District two, covers nine counties, from Liberty County to include Leon, and by the way, Leon only had one VFW, but no Black members at all. And I knew that there were hundreds of Black veterans here. Matter of fact, Bethel AME Church alone had over eighty Black veterans. Several of them were Colonels, officers, very distinguished people. But I started to notice that we just didn’t have that many Black veterans in the district, and when we would meet for our quarterly meetings, we would be the only group that then—you know, our guys, we were kind of spitting polish. We just shined them under. And so that first two years, we were winning all of the awards for events and the district became a little jealous, and so I told our guys, I said, “Well, listen. We just doing what we normally do.”









You know, we grew and everything. That’s why we were qualified for all



American and all that, and that’s the top of it you can get. But anyway—

O:

Excuse me, a couple of questions. So this is an early 19[70]s?

N:

Uh, no in 2000.

O:

This is—okay, so in 2000. So, in 2000, there’s still two different—

N:

Oh, yes.

O:

There’s a Black VFW--

N:

Yes.

O:

In Jefferson County, and a White VFW in Jefferson County.

N:

That’s exactly.

O:

Even though the national bylaws of the VFW say that it needs to be integrated.

N:

That’s correct. It shouldn’t be separate. It’s just one organization.

O:

But in order to have a VFW that would encompass and service African American



veterans, you had to have a separate—

N:

That’s correct.

O:

Because the White veterans would not—

N:

They would not accept—

O:

They would not accept you. Did you feel at that time, you know this is 2000.

N:

Oh, yes.





	O:	And did part of you feel like, you know, why should we have to have a separate organization, cause it sounds like you really turned that deficit into, like, a strength. It turns out that—

	N:	Yes.



	O:	What were your thoughts on that at the time? Did you think of like, “Well, maybe we can force them to accept us”? Or was that just never—

	N:	Well, when we would meet quarterly in the district, as I said, there were nine counties in District Two that stretches from Liberty County up in Bristol, all the way down to Hamilton County in Jasper. And when you look at this area, even Gaston didn’t have a VFW. And that’s the thing that caught my attention.

	O:	Gaston’s a Black majority county.



	N:	It’s a Black majority county. Now, what I found out they used to, but then it somewhat died out and the same concept, the White VFW lost its charter, but they had no Black members. And so these are the things I started noticing. What color county. Taylor County, up in Perry. And you got a very substantial African American population, but none of these folk were members of the VFW, and that’s why, when we would meet, we would be a predominantly Black. And although I recruited some White members—we had a White guy that I recruited, World War II veteran. And I started recruiting a few of those in the post of Jefferson County. But the others—even Leon had over five hundred or so members and no Blacks. And so that’s what prompted me to start taking a closer look at the structure. Knowing that constitutional bylaws, by that time I became





very into it. I had learned the constitutional bylaws very well. Because having to be a Post Commander, you got to know what you’re legal status is in the organization, how to run an organization. And it’s called “manual procedures,” is the second part of it that governs how you conduct business for the VFW. So, what happened was, in 2005—so you talking about 2001, we received our charter, up until 2005, that five years, and we became a real cracker organization. We won many awards and everything, and so I began to look at running for District Commander, which was the next level up in the state organization. And there was a guy by the name of Oni Groney. Oni was a World War II veteran, he in Tallahassee was a member of Post 3308, which had a large number of members. So it was the largest post in the Big Ben area. And I started talking with Oni that I had a desire to be on the district level. And he said, “Well, why don’t you consider maybe taking on one of the volunteer positions in the district?” I said, “Well, to be truthful, I think I’d be better in a higher level of that.” So Oni said, “Well, I’ll tell you what. I’m going to run one more year, and you think you can run a district?” I said, “Sure.” I said, “I don’t see why that would be a problem.” But I know to be elected, I wouldn’t probably get the votes. That’s the thing. I said, “If you can support me and kind of spread the word around since you’re the leader for the district, that I have a desire and you support me—given that opportunity, I think I can do well.” And so Oni said, “Yeah, I don’t have a problem with that.” And so in 2005, I ran for the District Commander position for District two, which had never had an African American in the history of the VFW, and I was elected. [Laughter]. I was elected.”





	O:	Did you have to campaign, or did you--? N:	Yes.

	O:	Can you describe that?



	N:	Yeah, it was a very awkward situation because one of the strange scenes was when I went to Hamilton County in Jasper, which was an all-White post, and they had no dealing whatsoever—as a matter of fact, the Commander up there told me, said, “We have an agreement in this county that Black members would be members of the Black American Legion, and they don’t connect with the VFW.” And so, even to this day, they still don’t. That’s something that I guess they agreed upon. And I can remember at that meeting, the Commander told me a campaign. He said, “Well, Nelson, I’m gonna let you go ahead and say what you need to say. Then you can leave.” I looked at him, so I didn’t say anything at that time. And I campaigned, and then I left. But when I was elected, one of the requirements is that a District Commander has to make reports to the State Office for visitation of the Post in those particular districts. And so when I went back to Hamilton, to make my official visit as a District Commander, the same guy was a commander and they were all White in the meeting and said, “Commander Nelson, I know you’re here to visit. But what we gonna do, we was gonna let you speak, and then you can leave.” I said, “Uh Commander, will you repeat that again?” He said, “Yes. You can go ahead and hold your official visit. Then you can leave.” I said, “Commander, let me ask you a question. Do you have a constitutional bylaw?” And he said, “Yes.” I said, “Well, good.” And I quoted a paragraph. I said, “Read me what that paragraph says, and I want you





to tell me when it is in a meeting as a District Commander addresses post.” And he kinda—cause he knew I had him. Because in the manual procedure, the District Commander doesn’t address the post until the good of the order, which is close to the ending of the meeting. And so he hesitated, and I just sat there with my arms folded. And he said, “You asked me to answer.” “Yes, I want you to tell me the section of the manual procedures where the District Commander addresses the post, and tell me where that is and where are you in your meeting at that time.” He said, “Well, Commander, I’m gonna be honest with you.” I said, “I’ll tell you what, Commander. You and I will be the last two people that will leave this room tonight. So no, I’m not going to allow you to usurp the manual procedures, which is the national bylaws and manual procedures that’s adopted by the Veteran of Foreign Wars in the United States, and you have no authority to change that. Nor can the State Commander change that. So we are going to follow the process as printed. And you and I will be the last two people to leave this post tonight.” And he was very uncomfortable the whole while, cause he knew that I had him. Not only that. Under that, if he violated the constitutional bylaws, I could have him removed as this District Commander. And so I didn’t get way out of line, and then I tried to keep it very diplomatic. And knowing that where I really can really put him on the block is when we had that final meeting I said just between the two of us. And after that, that night, I put him on the [inaudible 24:12] “Commander, don’t you ever disrespect this hat. It’s because when you wear that hat, you can earn it. I took an oath, under oath, that I would uphold the constitutional bylaws, and you did too, when you were sworn in as a





Post Commander just as I was sworn in as a District Commander. And you affirm to that oath that you would uphold the constitution bylaws of the Veteran of Foreign Wars in the United States. I was never going to lie, you know would I actually violate that by trying to alter, because neither of us would have the authority to alter. Only time that could be changed is in a national convention.” I said, “Don’t you ever, as long as I’m this District Commander, disrespect the constitution bylaws.”

	O:	So when he told you, initially, when he said, you know, you can make your remarks, and then leave, was that in public in front of other members?

N:  In front of the entire— O:  So it was very public? N:  That’s correct.

O:   Okay.



	N:	And as I said, I handled it very diplomatically, without really--. In military terms, normally a superior officer, if you disrespect that superior officer, he will chew you out. I could’ve totally had him stand front and center in front of that entire--and ripped him up and down. But I didn’t do that. I waited until we met separately, but I did call him on the carpet to remind him that he was obligated to honor the manual procedure, and a lot of his members probably didn’t realize and understand where I was going with that. But I put him on the spot, because he knew what the constitutional bylaws said and what the manual procedures said. And that’s why I asked him that question. He wasn’t going to tell me to come up,





and he didn’t have the power and authority to tell me when I could speak and when I couldn’t speak.

O:  Cause that’s already laid out and… N:  No, no, that I’m the superior officer. O:  Right.

	N:	It’s my meeting, and he doesn’t dictate that, and so that was one of the first experiences that we had. And the other thing that was unique that first year—I called it retreat in Madison, Florida, of all commanders, because we had to do our strategic planning for that year, and the reason and the rational why District two had been a low-performing district is that they had never had a retreat to get their leadership in line to talk about their goals, and objectives, and all of those kind of things. So what I brought to the organization was my experience that I had had as a state official in leadership, and having been a Fire Chief, and a Chief Deputy for the Fire Marshall’s office, so I brought leadership skills to the table. To know that the only way that you’re going to achieve goals and objectives, you have to have a planning session, and you want your leadership, the team, to buy in. You want them to be point players of that team, to say “We actually created the dialogue and the leadership process that we’re going to really implement as a team by each post.” And then we needed them to get that same thing, taking it back to their team. And ironically, that first year, I made All- State and All-American. Well the next year, 2006-2007, District Two was the number two district in the world, in the National Office, because we performed





just that well. But it took that moment, and getting that leadership team together in Madison to set the tone to make sure that we would have the team and their leadership team working on one page. And that’s what we implemented. And then we turned right around, that next year, 2007-2008, that was the year—as a matter of fact, I met Barack Obama in Kansas City, Missouri, cause he was campaigning along with Hillary Clinton. Those were the two that spoke that year at the National Convention, and because we were an All-American post—All- American has very few. We only had two in the state of Florida: District Six out of Jacksonville and ourselves. We were the only two that made All-American that year, and if you’re an All-American, you get the opportunity to sit down front with all of the dignitaries that come in to a state convention. You’re at the front seat.

And so my wife and I had a chance to meet President Obama and Hillary Clinton that year. And so then the second year, [20]07-[20]08, the National Convention was in Orlando, and again we had a better year; we were one of the top in the world that year, and of course, that was the year that President Obama actually came to Orlando and spoke as the person who was going to run for President at that time. He had separated himself from Hillary Clinton; that’s when he became the candidate that year. And so from those eight years, from 2001 to 2008, we made some monumental changes here in District Two. Walcola County was another area that had never had any Black. And so I started challenging all of these posts who had no Black numbers, and the Commander here in Tallahassee decided that he was not going to allow other Blacks to come in. So I said, “Well, Commander, I’m going to give you a choice. If you continue to violate





the constitution bylaws, then I have no other choice but to recommend to the State Commander that you be removed.” And so that year, I think he allowed about two or three to become members. But since he would not really—knowing that we had all of these members here, what I did was I made my decision, and I saw that we had areas that we could grow. And we grew. Really, oh my goodness, we must have grew about five or six hundred members between 2005 to 2008 when I was District Commander. Because that’s when I started a separate post on the South side, in the same area, the Jake Gaither Park Area. I started recruiting Black members, and I created a charter. It was VFW Post 12066. It was called the South Side Tallahassee VFW, Post 12066. And my first person that I assigned was over here, in this area. A guy by the name of Martin. No, it was William Lawrence. Lawrence was educated—he was a former Principal of the Old Lincoln High School, which was a predominantly Black school back then. He was a World War II veteran. I never met him. I heard about him, and I came over here, and I went to the house, and I knocked on the door. His wife came to the door, and I identified myself that I was a District Commander for the VFW and I understand that Mr. Lawrence was a World War II veteran. And Ms. Lawrence—it’s almost as if she had known me all the while.

She said, “Well, come on in. Sit down and talk with us.” And, oh, it was one of the greatest conversations that I ever had. And Mr. Lawrence signed up that day, and they became very, very dedicated VFW members. He did, at least. And there were a number of World War II veterans over here I signed up, and one was at FAMU campus. He was a Colonel. I’m trying to think of his name. He was one of





the officers of this post, and so that post became a very functional post to the dislike of the Tallahassee Post 3308 guy. And also, I started a new post in Gaston County, cause I had learned that they used to have an American Legion post over there, but they wouldn’t allow them to become members of the VFW. So I got with some ministers over there, and as a matter of fact, one of the pastors was from Jefferson County that was in the high school band with me.

And we had a meeting at his church, and I met with the Sheriff over there, and the Sheriff allowed me to use his conference room and support me in creating that post.

O:   Who was the Sheriff then?



	N:	Uh, same Sheriff they got now. Oh, I’m trying to think of his name. O:	Oh yeah, he’s very progressive. John really likes him.

	N:	Yeah, and anyway but, he invited me in and said, “Yes, you can use my conference room for the meeting.” And all of that, and we became extremely good friends, and so we started a post. And that post is still very active over there; it’s Gaston Post 12055. And they’re still functioning and still going very well. And so those were some of the things, and of course, after that, I stopped. I was appointed by the State Commander as a Deputy Chief of Staff for the state of Florida, and then later on the National Commander and Chief appoint me as a Aid Beaucamp, which was very similar to a Chief of Staff. And you actually represent your state to the National, so but even today, I still continue to recruit. Matter of fact, I was at the VA yesterday, and I signed up a guy at the VA as a





Black member. And that’s my thing about the VFW. We do a lot of things. I just agreed to—there was a young lady in Monticello that’s really, her two sons were involved in a situation at school. She’s a single parent, and because of my involvement with the same organization that [inaudible 48:44] Johnson, the [inaudible 48:40] committee, The Action Agency, as I told you, that’s who I brought in as the new director after I had to fire Bill McGill. And what I ended up doing overall was the VFW is I got the VFW involved with the Capital Area Community Action Agency to support a program in Jefferson County, which is called the ‘Getting Started.’ It’s a program that focuses on community people who have just totally burned out, no desire; they’ve just lost all confidence in themselves and everything. And that’s why they called it the ‘Getting Ahead’ program. And so the VFW decided that… what I serve in Jefferson County now as a judge advocate, which is more like a legal mind of the VFW. And part of what we do over there, through the VFW now, is that we adopt these programs to support community youth, and all of these kind of things. But through the ‘Getting Ahead’ program, these people—these are adults who will go through, and they would actually talk about their phase in life, what they would desire to do. And they basically would develop a plan to bring themselves or pick themselves up by their bootstraps to start getting a second chance in life. And so through that program, we run into people who’ve had some serious phase in life, and this young lady that we happen to run into, she has four children, she’s a single parent. She wanted to commit suicide because her life got just that bad. But the VFW told Capital Community Area Action Agency that we would support some of





those folk, and this young lady wanted to start her own cleaning business. And so the VFW decided, with my backing, that we would buy her all of her startup stuff. Our vacuum cleaners, mops, buckets, and all of that stuff. And so she completed the program, graduated, and so I just got a text from her just last week that she needs some help as she’s coming up to Christmas. Business has not taken off like it should, but she’s still doing some things. And so what we agreed to do--and I just text her back yesterday--that uh I intend, through the VFW, to see if we can raise about five or six hundred dollars to help with her Christmas, children, all of that. And once we do that, we would have been successful, and likewise, we’re going to do some things in Greenville through the VFW. On Pearl Harbor day, we’re going to donate a flag, which I have in the car. It’s a post flag. It’s eight feet by twelve. Huge flag. And I just met with the principal yesterday, and they’re going to raise that flag in a ceremony, give out flags to all of the students, and a flag etiquette flag card to all of the students in the schools. So they can learn all of the rules of the flag and flag code. So that’s my, at this moment, history of the VFW, and I’m still very active.

	O:	So what year do you see maybe some changes in terms of the possibility of getting those organizations together, or getting them separate?

	N:	Uh, right now, it’s somewhat regressed back to that, cause right now, even in Leon County, you don’t have that VFW post that I had here. They combined with Gaston County, because 3308 has gone back to that separatism. They still have a large unit over here, but they don’t have that.





	O:	What do you think accounts for that, Mr. Nelson? So there’s still—is it an older generation of White veterans holding on?

	N:	That’s what it is.



	O:	You think—



	N:	That’s what it is, uh—



	O:	So these would be Vietnam era veterans by this point, or—



	N:	When I started, it was World War II veterans, and since a lot of those have died out and now the predominantly membership in the VFW is similar to when it was at the WWII. It’s Vietnam veterans now, cause most Korean War veterans are dying out. And yeah, the Vietnam veterans that are there now have kind of somewhat regressed back to the same kind of attitude and mindset, and it’s prominent throughout the VFW. I know this when I was campaigning for—I think I may have told you I’m in for State Surgeon’s position. Uh, in 2010, I ran for the State Surgeon’s position, which is the first chair before you get to State Commander, and I lost by twenty-seven votes. The mindset of Vietnam veterans, which is not quite as dominant as it was with the World War II veterans, but you still have that same kinda mentality that most of these VFW posts, they are still predominantly White. And even in the center of Florida, and South Florida, on that coast. When you run for the state position, like State Surgeon, you have to campaign throughout the whole state of Florida, and that’s when I found that even in Central and South Florida, you have very few integrated coasts. Very few.





	O:	Yeah, that’s—



	N:	It’s still predominantly White.



	O:	Do you think that there’s—it seems to me, as a historian, there’s a very important point of educating Americans about Black military service.

	N:	Mhmm.



	O:	Cause you have, I remember reading—I mean, even after American Civil War soldiers or veterans would remind people, you know, this isn’t the first war we’ve fought in. We fought in the War of 1812. We fought in the Mexican War, we fought in the Revolution. And yet it seems every generation tries to pretend that this is the first war Black people have fought in. [Laughter]. I mean, I remember either watching—I don’t know if you’ve seen this Spike Lee film, Miracle St.

Mary’s, I think of it.



	N:	I don’t—no, I don’t think seen that.



	O:	So it’s about the Black combat experience in the Italian front. The ninety-second division. And there’s a statement made early in the film about—uh, and you have these White commanders, and they realized that the ninety-second division is coming to Eisenhower. I think he wants to make sure, you know, that the ninety- second goes into combat. Well, ninety-second had this story history of World War

I. It was one of the most highly decorated units in the history of the U.S. military.



Not just in World War I. But there’s a premise in this, and apologies for the long windup, but there’s a premise in the film which I find very disturbing, which the commanders are saying, “Well this is an experiment with the Negro soldier. We





don’t know how they’re going to do in combat.” I was watching this film, and I thought, even today—the film hasn’t been out that long—there’s this myth that continues to perpetuate itself about, well, you know, Black people never fought before, and we’re going to give them the chance, right? Even though they might die. Wow, what a great chance that is. But it seems like there is a connection here to denying Black, equal citizenship.

	N:	It is. And ironically, as I was coming up, I was listening to—93.3 has a station in Tallahassee, and in the afternoon, there’s a guy called Savage Nation, I don’t know if you’ve ever heard of that.

	O:	Oh, yes.



	N:	Uh, anyway, that was the discussion. I think its Tom Savage, his name. I believe he’s out of San Francisco. I listen to him because he’s a pro-Trump guy, and he was in an outrage this afternoon because of what happened with this Gasire, Mexican guy, that was just not exonerated, but basically that supposedly killed this lady. And he was extremely kind of upset with it, and he was calling for President Trump to send in the federal troops for San Francisco. [Laughter]. That they gotta [inaudible 46:05]. And he was comparing that to the 1960s, when President Eisenhower had to send troops into Arkansas and to Alabama, and I said, “My goodness. This is 2017.” But it is a situation where, and if you notice now under our current administration, it seems that we’re regressing back to some of the same kind of rhetoric and processes. And that’s what’s happening at the national level now. And it has created innocent—this same kind of idea that we are just not coming up to where we should be, and I think that that same





ideology is creeping over to also into the education thing. Now that we are not really prepared to be competitive enough because of our nationality, to compete with other students. And I don’t know whether that’s a good idea because, in this day and time, it’s not good for the country to have that kind of mentality. That weakens the nation, and when we’re not caring for America, we could really lose our—not only we are losing our credibility among other nations as the lead nation in the world, but when you start putting that kind of ideology out there, to say that, “Yeah, we’re a diverse nation.” But yet, we are not able to compete, and that’s an old thing because we’re proven that we can. Same thing I’ve had experienced coming up. I can rub elbows with just the best of them, and it’s the willing desire that you need to be successful. And the same thing that happened with the Tuskegee admin. People said “Give me the opportunity, and I’ll show you that I can compete, or I can be just as good.” And so [if] we go back to that kind of ideology, it will hurt us as a nation. That’s my…

O:  Well, you had Trump at the ceremony, just a couple, a few days ago. Uh, to honor the Navajo code [inaudible 36:25]. He made a racial slur about Native Americans. This is astonishing to me.

	N:	Well, not only that. I think it was noted, and the thing that really makes it more noticeable is that the whole setting was the wrong thing. You had it under the picture of Andrew Jackson, which was Florida’s first territory governor, and the things that he did, the devastation that he did for the Indian Nation as Native Americans—that whole scene, it was bad. And then to use that terminology about Pocahontas about a lady that’s a very honorable member of our national





leadership and all that, was just totally uncalled for. And that’s the kind of thing that can create that kind of, what I call a rebirth of that kind of ideology among our people, and we don’t need that. That’s just not good. Especially the national leader. You just don’t do that. And so I think that’s why you have that regressive move back towards that kind of thing, now and you seen more of that thing come up as the Charlottesville, Virginia, and some other areas. Even, I noticed that Prime Minister May made a statement about when our leader made the statement about what’s happening with the neo-Nazi type of thing in England.

That didn’t set too well with her at all, and as a matter of fact, they don’t even welcome him to their country because of that. And that’s, you know, England is one of our closest allies. You don’t wanna alienate that kind of thing. So, and now’s not the time to move toward that as a progressive nation with what we face with other nations that don’t care too much about us and supposedly our military powers, like North Korea, puts us in a real bad position. And so what I think about that and my work with the VFW and what we were able to do, it was to try to get everybody to think we are citizens of America. Yeah, we may be different ethnicity, but we are citizens of this great country. And one of the things that I’m trying to advocate now, among people, is that in order to continue to be a great nation, is that we need to realize that America became a great nation, and that’s why when President Trump talks about making America great again, America’s always been a—it’s no need to make, it’s already a great nation. It was the men and women who wore the uniform in the military: the Marines, the Air Force, the Army, the Navy, and even to talk about the Coast Guard, which is the fifth unit of





our defensive system. It’s those ladies and men that wear those uniforms. That’s the reason why this nation is a great nation today. And if anybody thinks that anyone can make a nation great by signing a piece of paper and everything, without shedding blood and fighting and giving lives, it won’t happen. And that’s why I advocate so much that those veterans, who are wearing the uniform, and those who are still unborn that will wear this uniform, is the reason that a nation will continue to be great. Because when our enemies decide that they want to really challenge and try to change our way of lives, the only way we can maintain the freedom and democracies that we have today is that we have to defend what we believe in, and that’s what I call the blessings of liberty and all of those things that we enjoy on a daily basis. I try to let people know that, uh, you earn that on the back of someone that gave their lives, made the ultimate sacrifice, and those of us who wore that uniform, that still have the battle scars, to this day, that’s the reason why this country is a great nation. And so that’s just the way I see it.

	O:	What impact did the Vietnam War have on African American communities in Florida?

	N:	That’s a good question, because I just listened to a comment last night on CNN. A lady was apologizing. The way that she—the mockery, in a sense, that she did toward Vietnam veterans when they returned to America. We were called baby killers, LBJ hired gunners and all of that kinda thing. Uh, I think that first of all, let me share some personal experiences in Vietnam. A lot of Black folk were killed in Vietnam, not by the enemy. They were killed by their own soldiers. I had an experience that’s talked about in the newspaper, where in Da Nang, where I was





stationed, where White Marine actually, after we had got hit one night, I was guarding the rear. Our unit, which we were a Marine and Army unit at the same base, and we had actually were hit by 122 millimeter rockets. My back was turned toward the area I was guarding, and the Marine guy was turned and I heard this snapping sound. And I happened to turn out, and his weapon was pointed at me, and evidently I guess he was going to kill me. And it didn’t fire. And so immediately I reacted, and I actually was pulling the trigger on my M16 to shoot and kill him, because he was going to kill me. Well, that’s the mentality that you have in war. You’re trained. You know for a fact somebody’s going to be killed when you go to war, and when you’re actually out in combat, the enemy— you either kill him, if he doesn’t then he’s going to kill you. So you have to develop that mentality. That’s the ideology to live. And so that particular incident, I reacted based on that same ideology. “Well, he didn’t get a chance to kill me.

Well, I better get him before he does pull the trigger and shoot and kill me.” Well, I didn’t realize that I had my M16 safety on, so I couldn’t fire. His didn’t go off, nor did mine go off. And there was a sergeant from North Carolina by the name of Moore that was there, and he intervened between the both of us. And ironically, that situation got resolved. But a lot of things happened with that same kind of scene, where a lot of Blacks, because of the race situation—it also happened in Germany. There was a group called the Black Baptists against others who had kind of joined with that neo-Nazis type of thing. And there were some people that were killed like that. And so the Vietnam War itself, because the way it played out, it created some unity, and then you had that situation where you still had that





sparse type of situation of racism, so it didn’t resolve all of it. But it helped, kind of, bring about some bonding. And that’s why now, when we think about the VFW, you think that those in leadership positions now, like Vietnam veterans, you will have a different ideology that you will be practicing. And, of course, when I look at my national magazine, the current national leader of the VFW now is a Vietnam veteran, and that’s one of the things he’s pushing. Not only that. Among females, we, within the next two years, will be the first time in the history of the VFW will have a female as a leader of the national VFW. And so there’ve been some change, and even Florida two years ago had its first female VFW commander. And she and I have talked about a lot of things. We talked about actual things that we can do in Florida to make change and try to bring about a change, but if the ideology that’s being promoted now among the international leadership, if it continues, you may have a continued—

	O:	Regression.



	N:	Yeah. Yes, it would be a regressing situation. It would be, and, moving forward, we’ll be going back.

	O:	Mr. Nelson, what do you see the kind of civic role of the VFW playing in Florida?



And has that changed over time?



	N:	It has changed a slight bit, specifically as I talked about the female who became the VFW commander. I know that that was a monumental task for a male- dominated situation for so many, many years. Never having a female to be a leader. And yet, a female was elected as the leader of the VFW. So it made





some change, and hopefully what has happened—and this is something I advocated. I have a letter that I sent to the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans Association when I was running for State Surgeon, because had I won, then I would have eventually became the State Commander. And so, the first thing I did was, I made contact with those younger veterans, which had formed its separate organization because they were in that situation where, as you experience now, younger veterans who are Iraq and Afghanistan veterans, they got the same feeling among Vietnam veterans that we had among WWII veterans. They don’t feel comfortable. They are not accepted. And so now that that process, or that ice, had been broken with a female, in a few years from now, will be the national leader. So, it’s gradually—that pendulum is kind of sliding on the other side a little bit. And hopefully, with the leadership we have now, with the Vietnam veteran that’s [an] international leader who is calling for solidarity, that you have some change. But if you have the regressive move at your national and your political level that’s going on, it’s going to be a hard balance. But you would hope that, with society and where we’re going in the future, that we will really start seeing a little bit more of coming together. And one of the things that I really don’t like that could really impact them, is the same thing that’s talking about with the corporate America becoming highly involved in the educational area. They versus public education. And that’s another area that, when you have young minds that’s supposed to be your future, that’s gonna be your future leaders, and you have that kinda thing coming to a fruition here, that could be another impact that it





could have, where it could impede the progress of change in our society. So that’s, again, the way I see some things that are going on.

	O:	Well, and typically in charter schools, there’s much less emphasis in subjects such as history.

	N:	Mhmm.



	O:	Mhmm. Within a larger public school, the system, unfortunately, there is an emphasis on testing and, which means you can’t really test—the historical knowledge that really matters is not the events or the dates. You know, it’s your analysis of history. Like you were saying earlier, what is it that makes the nation great? Well, if people don’t know their history, and they don’t know that everyone sacrificed to make the nation, then they’re prone to believe someone who can step in front of them and says, “I’m going to make it great, because I’m a great man.”

	N:	Oh, yes.



	O:	And then everyone is like, “Well.” It’s funny. If you allow me to digress, I’ve had this question asked to me many times. People have said, “Well, what is it going to take for White people to respect, you know, either Latino or African American history?” And my response is, “First of all, they’ve got to respect their own history”, because they don’t even know—I’ve been in an awkward situation. One time, I was in Mississippi. You’ll appreciate this. [Laughter] I was with a group of younger individuals most of them were Caucasians. And they were asking me questions. Young, White men, maybe late teens, early twenties. And there was a





name that came up: General Barksdale. He was a commander during the Battle of Gettysburg who led a Mississippi regiment into battle. He was killed at day two of the Battle of Gettysburg. They didn’t even know [who] this individual was. And they asked me these questions, and I’m telling them who he was, and they’re just amazed. And I’m thinking, cause one of them had a Confederate flag on their bumper, and I engaged them about that. I said, “Do you really know what this stands for?” And they started asking me these questions, and I realized they don’t even know their own history, and if you don’t know your own history, how can you respect someone else’s history? And I think that’s the problem among so many Caucasians in this country, to this day. That somebody can get up there and tell them, “I’m going to make you great again.” They don’t even…yeah, it’s such a bizarre thing. But it reminds you, again, about how important this is.

	N:	Oh, yes. Oh, yes. Well, I’ll tell you what. It’s unfortunate that, and I think that’s what you have in the educational system now, still in the immediate South. And I think there’s no cliché. If you forget your history, then you’re prone to fail, because you have to remember where you came from. I had an old high school principal, Eddie Simkin, there’s a WWII veteran, and he was one of those people I would go visit all the time, and I’d always talk to him, but I said, “Mr. Simkins, do you remember what you used to tell us when we would have the Black school, when it was predominantly Black?” And that’s when I came up with at a Black school in Monticello. It was separate but equal doctrine being practiced, and I couldn’t go to Jefferson County High School, and actually, in Jefferson County, we didn’t integrate schools until 1970. Although the Brown v. Board of Education





was 1955. So you’re talking about several more years before integration came in. But in the all-Black school, Eddie Simkins would always emphasize at our chapel meetings on Monday morning—we always had chapel, that was the first thing, for the first hour. You had assembly of all the students in an auditorium, and it’s almost like a pep thing, where the teachers would be there. You’d get that hoopla, but Mr. Simkins’ thing was, he would always say, “Boys and girls, if you don’t remember where you came from, you sure won’t remember where you’re goin.” He said, “That’s an old lady told me that. It was used in the old dialect of slavery back then. But if you don’t know where you came from, you sure won’t know where you’re goin.” We thought it was very humorous when he would say that, but that said, if you don’t know your history, you really won’t have an appreciation of how you got to where you’re really going. And I think that’s very important.

	O:	In the schools now, in Jefferson County, well, unfortunately, we have this terrible situation with the charter schools. Did you see any difference—we had an event last night in Gainesville, and Lincoln High School was Gainesville’s Black high school. It was very popular, and really kind of iconic, and Albert White, who is the President of the Lincoln High alumni just published a book on the history of that institution. And towards the end of the evening, he said, “We want Lincoln High back.” Because it had all of these great elements to it. One of the things he said, “I apologize to English teachers here, but the teachers back then, they teached and preached, and we had a certain kinda pride in the school that is not there now. And the school shut down in the middle of the year, January 1970. It closed,





never opened again. He said, “They threw away all of our trophies. We have this stored history. Where did it go? Papers, documents were thrown out.” And so his book is an attempt to try to recapture that. Is there a similar history here, with Black schools?

	N:	Oh, yes. Matter of fact, ironically, I have, in my little—what I call My Recaptured, My History, myself, I put it together. It’s about a twenty page document. I kept a lot of things and pictures, because I take a lot of pictures. And I kind of put that together as a simulation to show—a lot of folk don’t really like to read a book with just a lot of words. But the old thing, the added thing that a picture is worth a thousand words, that’s true, and that’s why I use that. Because people can relate to actually following history, and it’s much easier for them to recollect what they find by looking at pictures. And ironically, I gave it to Dr. Pettifoot at Green Bell Elevator yesterday. I just told her, “Browse through my little booklet. See, cause I like to give you a couple of these for the library, and tell me what you think.” And these are elementary school students, so more than likely, they’re not going to take the time, and ninety percent of those students are Black students in that school. And I said, “I’d like to give you a couple of these booklets that you can put in your library, and more than likely, these students will probably flip the pages, and there’s some written work in there. They will read that, but then they would probably get more recollection of what they see in the pictures rather than reading overall. So, what happened was, I met with Senator Bill Montford, who is the Executive Director, CEO, of the Florida School Superintendent’s Association for the State of Florida. And Montford and I had about a two hour discussion on





what I called the restoration of African American educational institutions in Florida, and he was very saddened, because here, in Leon County, when he was the Superintendent, they lost almost all of the Black identity. And the only school that he saved as a Superintendent was the Lincoln High School on Macomb Street, and that’s the only one. And he told me in this meeting. He said, “You know what, Nelson? I really kicked myself, because I allowed all of that history to be destroyed.” And he was working with me to save what we had in Jefferson County. As a matter of fact, I just met with a pastor who just realized that they have a very old building on their church grounds that was the educational building, and I just got the paperwork so she can file with the National Historical Association Society to get that recognized as a landmark. Because when you go through the recommendation here in the state of Florida, they recommend that you work with the State Historical Preservation Board, under the Secretary of State, by actually applying to get that on the national register and created. So I’ve got the paperwork in my—and I’m gonna probably see her this weekend, so I can apply to get that registered. And they said maintain some of its originality, and so I was gonna go out to visit that facility. And there, I had also worked to kinda save the old [inaudible 1:13:12] Academy over on Cypress Street and Monticello, and that’s when the School Board didn’t work with me. They decided to go in another direction with that, and, well, it’s still there, but the building is deteriorating fast. At the time, we could have probably got it restored for pretty close to about $2 million, cause I was on the County Commissioner at the time, but the buildings and properties had been donated to the School Board by a





Black lady that owned it. But then after integration came in, the last people in there was the old Boys and Girls Club. And they stop using it, and so it would take about $5 million now to try to restore it. And ironically, the retired educators just called me about a month ago to meet with them, because we had put together all of the presentation material. And as a matter of fact, the lady that gave me the idea of what I needed to do was a lady by the name of Roberta Lopez out of Archer.

	O:	I know her.



	N:	Roberta, on Highway 121, she has an old gymnasium that she work with the Historical Preservation people, and they pump them right out three quarters of $1 million. And they had some citizens from Archer that put in another almost $1.5 million. And I was there for the dedication of that building. It’s a beautiful building. It was an old gymnasium, right on Highway 129, and Roberta Lopez was instrumental. She serves on the Divvying Board for the Historical Preservation people, but yeah. We just have lost a lot of history, and that’s something that— and by the way, CP Miller told me to tell you hello, and yeah, he was over here today, and he wanted to just stop by, but he had to get on cause he is working on another situation out in Monticello. After we had the talk last night with the Advancement Project and the other [inaudible 1:15:40] from the NAACP State Conference. They are really concerned about this House Bill 7069 and the impact it’s going to have on the state of Florida. And so it was about a two-hour conference call, and that could change the whole process of Florida. If the





privatization and charter school situation continues, the statistics shows it just has not worked. And that’s what the concern is.

	O:	Well, but it’s such a great investment opportunity for people, you know, too, because as we’ve seen here in Florida, states that are run by right-wing governors are open to this. And I think you know what the tax bill that’s going through now the federal level. There’s such a de-emphasis on education. There’s a hostility towards education, which I kind of started sensing several years ago. It was before Trump. You can’t blame him for everything, but now, it’s almost like, you try to get an education, you try in school, you go to college, you know. It seems like now you’re made to feel, “What’s wrong with you? You’re an elitist.” You mentioned the savage [inaudible 1:17:16]. And so the whole thing about education now, it’s backwards. I mean, even when I was a kid, I was the first generation to go to college, and that was something that, even if your elders didn’t quite understand exactly what you’re doing, there’s a sense of, you know, pride and dignity in doing that. But now, I just think that society’s upside down, where you hear all this stuff about education, and well, they think you’re better because you get an education. So it just seems that education is not the priority that it used to be. And it’s more like it’s a gaming kind of thing. “Well, let’s see how much money we can get out of these kids.”

	N:	Well, let me just give you my view of what I see, and coming up in the segregated system, graduating from a separate but equal school, Howard Academy, that really produced almost fifty-some PhD’s, M.D.’s, and some of those folks are very prominent in America today are my classmates, Joe





Webster; he’s a medical doctor here in Tallahassee. The Webster family—their father was a carpenter, but one of the best. This man had a mind that he didn’t have the drafting skills, but he can draw something in the sand and build it, because that’s just the retention level he had. But his children, three of those are medical doctors, two are PhDs, and the one that died already had a Master’s.

The one that is a PHD is an engineer for NASA. And that’s the oldest, Lori Webster. He’s in Houston, Texas, at NASA’s headquarters there, and he was in the band when I was in the band. He was a little older than me, but they’re an amazing family. There’s another. The Bird family, is a group of about sixteen children. Almost all of them are either PhD’s or Master’s. Dr. Flossy Bird was the—let me think what her position was—at Prairie View A&M University, something like the [inaudible 1:20:04] of her department. But she was one of the first females from Jefferson County to earn a PhD degree, and she’s about almost ninety years old. She is back in Monticello. And so, but that Bird family, of the sixteen, only one didn’t get a college education, and most of them graduated from FAMU. Dr. Bird have a undergraduate degree from Florida A&M, and then she went on out to Texas; that’s where she earned her PhD. That almost all of those from Jefferson in that list I was talking about, I made a list of them. They either [inaudible 4:16] or Florida A&M. That’s where they earned their PhD’s, so…But what happened back in those early ages, the educators and the post- secondary schools back then, they gave you the guidance and the motivation that you should feel good about who you are, although people wanted to make you feel that you were second class. They said, “Listen. You’re not second class.





You’re just as good. You’re still flesh and blood like everybody else. But if people can get in your head to make you think that you are less than they are, then you will be like that.” That always have that mindset. My mathematics teacher, Rolly Cox, they would go beyond what it took when I was coming up. And the reason that I was offered a scholarship in music to Alabama State was because my band director graduated from Alabama State. Taught college level courses in high school. Now, he couldn’t let the superintendent know that he was doing this. I learned how to do transposition as an eleventh grader. I can take a music score and do all of the transposition for all of the instruments, because I was taught how to do that while in high school. And that’s why a group of us like Dr.

Webster, Louis Barrington, myself—there was a saxophone section, in the high school band. We were just advancers. Anybody you could find in our class of 1966. And because we had been picked out because of our level of intellect that the band director felt very comfortable in giving us these, although he knew that he would be jeopardizing himself, because it was beyond the curriculum that he should not have been teaching. But he felt that we were at that level, that he could do that. And so the difference today is this, and I know this about the charter schools, when I went out to visit. There were teachers I’d never seen before. Even just a few months ago, when I went out for Veterans Day, and I didn’t even know they were there. Because they’d never [been there] before, in the community.

	O:	They’re only from out of state, or?





	N:	Well, that’s the thing. Most of them came up from Miami, because basically, they are Hispanic, and a lot of them are Cubans. It’s the Rodriguez’s. The CEO of Summer Set, which I understand, Summer Set is a large charter program in the state of Florida and in the United States. And so they’ve got rid of the teachers that were in Monticello. Yeah, I think they only retained about five. Everybody out there. Even the elementary school principle, which was a very good person, they didn’t retain him. So these were people who knew nothing, come from an urban background, had been operating in urban areas like Miami and Dade County, but when they got to Jefferson, that was different. Yeah, and that was a different environment.

O: That’s incredible.



N: Oh, yeah. And so that’s not good for the system, that’s the thing.



O: Well, Mr. Nelson, I know you got an engagement tonight, so thank you for your time, and we will to be continued.

[End of Interview]











Transcribed by:

Rhiana Suarez,

February 2019

Audit-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

May 28, 2019