AAHP 466; Vinson; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 466A Jancie Vinson African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Ryan Morini on July 23, 2012 24 minutes | 14 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 466

Interviewee: Jancie Vinson Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: July 23, 2012



M:  This is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. It is July 23, 2012 and I’m here with Jancie Vinson in our offices in Pugh Hall. Could you please state your full name?

V:  Yes, good afternoon Ryan. My name is Jancie Ardeen Vinson. V-I-N-S-O-N, Vinson.

	M:	Thank you. And your maiden name is? V:	Is still the same.

	M:	Okay. Just checking. Always got to check. What is your date and place of birth? V:	My date of birth is 8/9. You want the year as well?

	M:	Yes, please.



	V:	1958 in Gainesville, Florida. I was born and raised here. M:	Okay. Whereabouts in Gainesville?

	V:	Old subdivision called Arredondo. It’s Southwest Gainesville off Archer Road between Archer Road and Williston Road.

	M:	Okay, what was it like to grow up there?



	V:	In Gainesville? It was wonderful, my experience was very wonderful. Peaceful community, a good close-tied community that everybody looked out for each other. My neighbor’s—matter of fact she was the midwife that delivered me—

	M:	Oh, yeah?



	V:	With my mom, I’m the tenth child of eleven. I was raised on a farm with animals, cows, hogs, chickens, and everything like that. It was a very nice life. Peaceful and everybody got along.





	M:	So you raised a lot of your own food or you grew it?



	V:	Yes, my parents grew their own food. They milked the cows. They was self- sufficient.

	M:	What was the name of the midwife?



	V:	Her name was Mrs. Mims, Rosa Mims. M:	Rosa Mims. Okay so I guess—

	V:	Yes, she was the midwife in Arredondo that delivered all of us pretty much expect the last one.

	M:	And so you were delivered at home?



	V:	Yes, she came to my mom and at that time it was a three bedroom wood frame home and I was delivered there.

	M:	Wow. So, what was your experience like with schooling growing up there?



	V:	My experience with schooling, first of all I was bussed over to Duval Elementary School. Then I went to Idylwild and then I went to Littlewood and finished. It was wonderful, you didn’t see any difference. Everybody got along and being in a child’s eyes I guess you expect that way. I didn’t see no cruelty or anything like that. The teachers was fine. You got some teachers harder than others that want to push you to succeed in life, but other than that it was a good experience especially the education. Now one thing about my parents, they believe in education. Education is the tool to success. So, with all of us out of eleven kids, ten of us went to college and one owns his own business plastering company. So they pushed education. My oldest sisters and brothers had the opportunity to go out of state to Tuskegee and went to school. And my parents didn’t mind paying





for private school because that was important to their kids and making sure we are successful on our own.

	M:	And was running the farm the full time business of your parents or did they—



	V:	Running the farm? No. My mom was the engineer for that, my dad worked, he was the one that went and made the money and everything else. My mom was a housewife I guess with so many kids it was kind of hard to go anywhere else, but stay home. And she was the one active with us, with the school participation and stuff because I was very involved with school activities. The programs, the track, or basketball, or volleyball. She was the one that was the person driving us back and forth.

	M:	And what was it that your father did?



V:   My father was in construction. He was a foreman in construction sites and stuff. At that time, construction was a big thing up north. So, he traveled a lot up north and earned all his money from doing construction.

M:   Where about up north?



	V:	Ohio and in Florida too, he did a lot of programs in Florida. He worked for a big building construction firm. So, he had the connections with that so he had some good jobs. Matter of fact he even helped build the VA hospital.

	M:	Oh, wow. So, how did you first start getting interested in politics? V:	How I first start getting into politics?

	M:	Yeah.



V:  First of all, it was no choice. My parents was Democrat so voting was very important to us. One era of a civil rights child when you saw and experienced—I





was born in [19]58—so the movement of civil rights was really at its height and peak at the time I was born. So, when I got older and everything else I could see my parents traveling to different things to support the movement and everything else. And at that time I even remember going to Tuskegee a lot because the dominant Black schools you see more events. I saw Cassius Clay before he became Muhammad Ali, you know, different things you saw back then as a child. So, politics and seeing the way of life and for change, that was something that always interested me as a child. And later on, like I said, raising in the summer time I was fortunate to stay in Tuskegee in the summer time. My sister was married and had some kids. One thing about my family structure is we all support each other. You got to take care of each other, so as a child nine and ten, I had to go away to help my sister in the summertime to take care of the kids. So, you see things in Tuskegee, like I said, movements and social change, and interests.

	M:	And sometimes I’ve spoken with people who say their parents kind of kept them from hearing about politics that was the time like okay go outside and play or something. Is that how your parents were or did they want to include you all in the discussions as well as taking you over to the places and things like that?

	V:	Now my parents took a different approach— M:	Okay.

	V:	They were more supportive of the movement and did whatever they had to, but at the time they were really out there marching or anything like that? No. What they did was, they didn’t shy me away, they wanted me to understand to educate myself too and make that decision too. One thing they really stress is that you got





to treat people right. I don’t care who you are, you got to be the Christian that you are. You love your neighbors like yourself. So that was the golden rule that they always taught us. And again, when it came down to—at that time the Martin Luther King era and everything else during that time. They admired him for what he stood for and for a person to sacrifice their life for others that was a great achievement for them. To look at him and aspire to and make sure that we’re doing what we have to do to keep his memory alive.

	M:	Okay. Well, and so in some ways you’ve already kind of answered this and maybe you’ve always sort of knew, but can you please describe how you became a Democrat?

	V:	Again, it was no choice— M:	Maybe more officially.

	V:	It was no choice. When I turned my voting, it was important because the Voting Rights Act of all the African American people and Whites suffered during that time to get it approved. All the different beating down and all the marching which they sprayed with hoses and stuff, you see those things as a kid. And those are the things you don’t want to repeat itself and you want to keep people abreast that history can repeat itself and we need to go forward. I’ve seen the women’s suffrage movement, I’m a sorority person I joined my sorority here at the University of Florida, Delta Sigma Theta, and Delta Sigma Theta was a part of the women’s suffrage march in Washington, D.C. So, you see things that you want change and make sure people’s rights are not violated. And again Democrats was the way of life for my parents and I saw that. I respected, I loved





my parents, and those are reasons not to be anything else, but what they are ‘cause you striving to be like them.

	M:	So, you basically turned eighteen and that was it. V:	I voted yes, I was voting. Yes, I was voting.

	M:	What is it that you love about being a Democrat?



	V:	Certain things. So, I’m more of a conservative Democrat. I like the social programs for the elderly and for people disabled. I think it’s very important for us to take care of our elderly and our disabled. Especially because again, of giving back and our moral responsibility. Another thing about being a Democrat is I like the fact that we can empowerment through education. Education is always the tool again for knowledge and those have knowledge of visions and stuff. And I think we can do it more so with educating through vocational and also employment training, those are the key things. Another thing I like about being a Democrat is because of caring for everybody. I’m not saying other parties don’t do the same, but one thing I particularly like about being a Democrat is that it’s a wide spectrum where you as an induvial look out for your fellow man. Again, being raised in a Christian family, you want to do that, you want to give back because that’s the ultimate supreme goal is to do that. You can’t be selfish, because when you’re being selfish it suffers in the end.

	M:	Well said. So, please share what you remember from the first time you voted for a Democratic presidential candidate.

	V:	All right, my first vote for president. Oh let’s see, who was it? Man, in [19]58, well, in [19]58 I was eighteen. I was in 1976, who was running at that time? I don’t





even remember. It was exciting because my mom went with me voting and she showed me how to vote. So, that was one of the things and then of course she picked out the ones to vote for because I wasn’t on top of who to vote for with the issues and stuff. So, she was the person who helped me through the mainstream. I liked it too because like I said, my dad he dropped out of school in the third grade because back then—and there was like eighteen in his family— when you turn a certain age the family make you go work and do everything else. He was one of those people that in third grade he had to drop out, but he taught himself how to read and write. He read newspapers he did everything, he educated himself. So he made sure voting that’s something he voted all the time that was true to his heart and my mom too. So my mom was the one that took me to the polls and helped me make the right choice and voting.

	M:	Wow. Do you remember what it meant to you when you first heard that Barack Obama had been elected president of the United States of America?

	V:	Oh, what it meant to me in hearing President Obama was the first elected president. I was very thrilled and I was very pleased to know that America is the country that is a Democratic, that means that it’s opportunities of land for everybody. So, being a first African American man meaning that in my lifespan I can see and was a part of it. I also went to the inauguration. The same thing, because when you see that we’re going in the right direction, where we recognize everybody as an individual, the Bill of Rights and everything, now you see things happen in motion. It took a long time for it, but I’m glad it happened during my life span. For I can see it and be a part of it. It’s wonderful to know that





everybody is equal, that everybody can serve, and could be the president of the United States.

	M:	Do you have any memories of the campaign? Whether you were directly involved or not.

	V:	Yes, we were all directly involved to get out to vote and make sure that everybody’s vote was counted and was a part of. We motivated people, most people was very skeptical. They didn’t believe that—they couldn’t imagine that a first Black president of the United States. So, they didn’t feel that their vote really counted either, but at the same time encouraging people that it takes one to vote in order to cast a vote and make sure that he get that nomination for president.

But, at the same time people were very leery because they didn’t think that this could actually happen. We made sure that they understood that not participating at all mean it won’t happen for sure, but being a part of it will make a dream a reality.

	M:	Can you please share a memorable moment, even a small one, in the way a specific family member or friend reacted when you first shared the new of Obama’s election victory win?

	V:	Again, everybody was surprised. You know, Florida had a problem with votes and everything else and when we had a recount and all that stuff, people lost hope that this could be. And when it happened, it shows again that we restored the faith in our country that everything is possible. A lot of people was shocked, crying, and it was emotionally happy because they could see that there’s changes coming about. As you could see, there’s justice in the system, finally.





And they were very happy and very thrilled that they too was a part and witness the wonderful of a first Black American president in their lifetime.

	M:	And that’s how the reaction was in your family as well?



	V:	My reaction was the same. Again, it was very—people pray a lot because they hope that change will come about and they felt that their prayers was answered too. They really felt that now you could see that we have hope. The faith is moving, now you can really hold onto the faith ‘cause knowing that the first Black president, President Obama, was reality, something they could see a part of.

	M:	What’re you doing right now to ensure President Obama’s 2012 reelection?



	V:	We making sure that everybody is getting ready to vote early. Make sure that everything—because of new laws of voting where your signature must match everything, you know, all these new laws and stuff—we’re making sure that everybody understands that and don’t be discouraged at the polls and stuff, but still go and vote and cast your vote. Because people are so skeptical about the new ruling and it’s fearful to them and with the change and stuff. With that in mind that’s why we give even more of a right to go vote to make sure that your vote is counted.

	M:	I see. Is there a specific policy or law or issue that President Obama supports that you really like and you believe he will deliver if awarded a second term?

	V:	Well, first of all I like the health plan. I know everything in the health plan is not the best, especially women the right to have preexisting conditions and get the medical treatment that is needed, much needed. Any time that you have a precondition—and most of the times insurances want to shy away from you—but





that way it’s valuable for women too because they get cancer as well. Preexisting any condition now is affordable to everybody. I like to fight that now parents can keep their kids on longer and then provide insurance for them, especially students because it’s much needed. Our health is so important to us and it’s good that we can have good insurance to take care of us for that way we will live a life of healthy and all that prosperous. Now, the unemployment rate I understand that it is still down, but you got to understand too that when he resumed that office things was not the best. And most of all, I admire him because he never made a mockery of it. He did what he can to make sure it got better. He didn’t fault nobody or point fingers or anything. He did what a president is supposed to do, assume the responsibilities and go forward with it. And that’s what, in my opinion, he did. One thing I do like, again, he care for people. It’s bigger than himself. He loved the American people and any president that you have that’s not so selfish, but for the American people, that’s who you want. We don’t need to go back, we need to go forward. We need to correct our economy. We had in the black when it was President Clinton when he left office, we could do it again. Giving him that opportunity to address the issues that he didn’t have the opportunity to address in the short period of time. Understanding that also he had people voting against him. One man can’t do it all by themselves, so it’s important that we vote people in and that’s another thing we’re doing. Is making sure that you vote candidates in that would help him on his mission and not fight him. That’s the bad when you have a president standing alone and you don’t have that many people on your side because we are the minority or the majority





or when at that time we were the minority. But, if you having good people selected to do the will of other people and not selfish reasons it would make our country more greater than what it should be. Right now, we at a point that gridlock and all that other stuff, it shouldn’t be that way. You should work with the president and give him that opportunity. Don’t try to make him look bad, but give him the opportunity to make our country great.

	M:	What are some of the biggest challenges to get people motivated, not just for the presidential elections, but for those other elections that feed into who is working with the president or who is receiving those—?

	V:	The big challenge I see is to again, educating people is important even look at your judges and still just say yes, retain them. Look at their records, it’s what they voting for. You can say no people don’t look at that, but its other things on the ballot too with the president that we could do to change things or how the process is. One of the things again, it’s like I said, is encouraging people. If you want change, you must be a part of it. How can you complain about something when you’re not actively participating in it? Voting is always the answer. I know sometimes you feel that the voting don’t count or it rigged or taken away from you and stuff. And maybe that’s the cases sometimes, but overall things will work out. But you can’t discourage or stop just because of that. And that’s one of the things we will be encouraging people and again to vote early. That way you won’t have so many obstacles hopefully and at the same time, making sure that we have rides to the polls for the ones who don’t have the rides, but also to canvas the community and make sure they understand this election is very important.





We must even more so because all the different trickery of voting and everything that’s came up with these laws that will tell you it’s very important and we need to make the difference by voting.

	M:	So what do you fear most about this election?



	V:	I don’t fear too much because I believe in God. One thing is, if you’re not—if anything I fear him for not doing his real. And I think people are gonna try a lot of ways of doing things to make sure that he probably won’t get it, however, faith works in so many ways. And because of that I feel he’ll be all right. Even though you try to tear him down with whatever he says or whatever he still overcome that because he’s a smart man and he thinks quick. And you can’t trickery, you can’t do that for him, and you see a president like that, you know that he’s in grace and that he’s a good man. We should all get behind him and make sure that he gets in because it’s important to us because like I said, he do the well of the people, not for himself, but for others.

	M:	How confident are you that Obama will be reelected?



	V:	I’m very confident. As you noticed it was talking about the high prices of gas prices and stuff, they dropped. Prayers answer many things and a lot of people are praying to make sure our president is safe and do the will for the people and do his agenda. I think too unemployment you’ll probably see go down a little bit too. It’s funny how things work out, but when you’re a good person, it’s hard to harm a good person, I don’t care what you do. And I believe that he’s a person of faith and I believe that, like again, he’s not for himself, but for others. And that’s the best deed you can do for anybody. When you could not take away from





yourself, but do for others. That’s why I said I have faith that he will be our president.

M:  Actually, I think that finishes our questions because the one at the bottom is out of place. Is there anything else you’d like to add about Obama or about being a Democrat?

	V:	Again, President Obama has shown to the world what he said he tried to deliver it. All the things of course not, because again, gridlock you can’t do it by yourself okay. But, at the same time if you look at his actions and everything, it’s about others, not about him. And he’s the type of president that given the opportunity to serve a second time, you’ll see the change. And knowing that respect of the other countries. That’s the first time around the team you see all the different countries participating with him. Even Venezuela, because they believe in him as a president too because he listens, he listens to everybody. Even though we a great nation, we don’t look and frown upon others or condemn them. He does things diplomatic and that’s what you want as a president. A person that can get along with everybody and not say that’s a Mickey Mouse president. I went to Savanah and I was at the Marbury stand and I’m not gonna say the president which they said about, but it was some people from England and they called him the Mickey Mouse president. You want that people can respect, and he has the authority to do things and they respect that. You want a strong commander in charge. You want a person that thinks on his own. Of course he has advisors and everything else, but he gonna do the will of the people. It’s not about making money for the big industries, it about embettering America and we can do that





through our president elect, President Obama. And I know people have their own agenda what they say about him, but if you look at the whole thing, what did he assume in that role when he became the first president and how did he conduct himself throughout the whole process. Very manly and in a manly way. And he didn’t put fingers on nobody or excuses on anybody, but tried to change the situation and surely you would want somebody to be your president like that.

	M:	Well, thank you very much. V:	You’re quite welcome. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Lisa Mueller, October 2, 2017



	Audit Edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, December 4, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 28, 2019