AAHP 515; Williams; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 515 Mary Williams Interviewed by Ryan Morini on August 17, 2017

2 hours 1 minutes | 41 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Mary Williams describes her life growing up in segregation within Ocala. Her mother taught cosmetology at the Florida School for girls and her father a high school teacher close to New York University. Williams gives an account of her experience with the Civil Rights Movement and how she was trained. Around fifteen, Williams was arrested.

Fearing for her safety, her parents sent her to live in Iran with her aunt, uncle, cousins. She talks about her experiences in Iran as a Black girl. She eventually returned to the United States where she has been a resident of Ocala Florida. She has one daughter who is in law school in Savannah, Georgia.



Keywords: [African American History; Ocala, Florida; Civil Rights Movement; Iran]



AAHP 515

Interviewee: Mary Caroline Williams Interviewer: Ryan Morini and Aliya Miranda Date: August 17, 2017



	RM:	This is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. It’s August 17th, 2017. And I am sitting here with…

	AM:	Aliya Miranda. RM:	And--?

	W:	Mary Williams.



	RM:	And it’s Mary Caroline Calhoun Williams, if I remember right. W:	No! It’s, Mary Caroline Williams.

	RM:	Calverin Williams.



	W:	Carol-in Caroline Williams. AM:	Caroline.

	W:	Caroline.



	RM:	Caroline Williams. W:	Uh-huh.

	RM:	What was your maiden name? W:	My maiden name is Finley RM:	Finley. Okay. Okay.

	W:	So, Mary Finley Williams.



	RM:	Where did I get Calhoun from? I am pretty sure I heard that somewhere. Maybe I heard Caroline wrong. That’s—

	W:	Oh! Okay.



	RM:	But, but okay so--



	W:	So, Mary Caroline Finley Williams. [Laughter]







RM:

Okay. And so, where were you born?

W:

I was born in Ocala.

RM:

Okay. And when were you born?

W:

March 27, 1948

RM:

Okay. So just a little after the war, I guess.

W:

Uh-hm.

RM:

Yeah.

W:

One of those.

RM:

And you grew up in Ocala?

W:

Yes.

RM:

Okay. Can I ask your parent’s names?

W:

Oh, yes. Benjamin—

RM:

Okay.

W:

And Mary Finley. Mary McRae Finley. M-C-R-A-E- is her maiden name. Finley.

RM:

Okay. And were they also from Ocala? Or?

W:

Yes.

RM:

Okay, so they both grew up there.

W:

Yes.

RM:

Okay. Its deep Ocala roots. So did you have a lot of family there in Ocala,



growing up?

W:

My daddy was the youngest of sixteen.

AM:

Wow.

RM:

Wow.





	W:	They lived in a farm right outside of town and a place called—yes, you didn’t know that?!

	U1:	I didn’t say anything.



	W:	Oh okay. Oh, I’m sorry. I’m— [Laughter] RM:	Hm.

	W:	He’s looking—[Laughter], he was the baby of fifteen. And they lived right outside of Ocala in a place called Shady Grove. Beautiful country out there. But he was the baby. Yeah, and when he graduated from college he could not go to the University of Florida. But he attempted. But what he did was when ahead and applied to NYU, which welcomed him with open arms. And what he would do was go during the summer months because he worked at Howard High school. And he was a teacher there. And so, during the summers he would go to NYU.

	RM:	Wow.



	W:	Um-hm. And he did get his degree. One of my brothers has his— AM:	Diploma.

	W:	Yeah, so we didn’t know what was going on, and the only thing I knew was I got a chance to go ride the train to New York. And my mother and I would ride back with him in the car. So, holiday. Holiday. I did not realize until I actually read what had happened because the only thing my mother would say and because she would say it this way, she would say “Oh, Mary Caroline,” because everyone called—she’s Mary and I’m—Mary Caroline. And anybody who calls me Mary Caroline, I start looking because they’re from Ocala. [Laughter] “I’m hearing what?” My mother would only say, “Oh, Mary Caroline, I was just afraid when





your daddy applied to the University of Florida.” Okay! I’m a kid, I’m like, “What’s so scary about that?! It’s right up the street.” But all of that was basically—the underbelly of it was kept from us. We were not told, “Oh, you better watch out for this, oh you better what out for that.” “These people don’t like you.” My mother, never! My parents, never, said that to us. But we knew that segregation existed. We knew that there were no White schools at my elementary school. There were no White students at my middle school. It wasn’t called that then. They called them junior highs’, I think. And there were none in my high school class. I think the year after I graduated, integration began to move forward, which was a good thing because my baby brother—all of them went to integrated schools. And I was grateful that I had the teachers that I had because I was well equipped to move to the next level, and the next level: college and then, graduate school. I am a graduate of Washington University in Saint Louis. And I took care of business and came back and started working. So, I do not hold any anger or animosity because that wasn’t just the way it was for me and my family. That was the way for everybody. And there were a lot of people who were very angry. I don’t even want to get into the movement. I was involved in the movement because my mother allowed us to do that. Because it was a nonviolent movement. We could not talk. Everyone was very well trained. You do not talk with anybody on the street. You have something to say? Get the attention of the observer and I loved it. So, I did it as long as I was in Ocala. And then I went to— I think I told you. Everybody thought—they said “Your parents sent you to Iran to get out of Ocala?! I said “Are you kidding?! My aunt and uncle live in Iran, in





Tiran. I’m going for the experience.” “Oh!” That was funny to us. But I said, “I am going for the experience, when am I going to be able to go to Tiran?” My family is going and they want me to go because they had an older daughter and they did not want her to be alone, that’s what I’m thinking. I am always thinking some stuff, but it was a wonderful experience. What did they want me to do? “Tell us about America”. And of course they were White teachers, Irani teachers, teachers from all over the world in my school. But one of the ministers there, asked me “Have you ever been involved in the Civil Rights Movement?” I said, “Everyday”. And his eyes got like that! “Well, what did you do?” And then I started talking. And then when I mentioned jail, he said, “You’ve been in jail?!” I said, “Me and two of my brothers, at the same time”. I was very happy to have the opportunity to explain to people, children from countries, I think it was thirty or forty different countries attending my school. So, I got a chance to talk about that. And they knew from me that there was no hate, there was no, you know— because the people facing us, we knew who like what we were doing. They weren’t going to be waving and stuff because they were afraid of the other White people in town. But I made eye contact with everybody that faced me. And I had a nice smile. And I knew who was okay. And I loved that. And that’s why I tell people, “You can’t just put people in a cup and say ‘These people are like this.’” It doesn’t exist. And even the ones who were a little bit afraid, they would drop their heads and smile. Anyway. It was a great experience for me. People used to talk about hate so much. I can say for sure that if I saw some facing me…I wanted to make eye contact with everyone that I saw so that they would know, I’m just me.





I am doing what I think I need to do right now. And so, anyway that’s my story. And that’s the enough of that!

	RM:	No, that a good story. Well, so you said your mom allowed you in the movement, like did your parents talk much about equality or about segregation, to you? Or anything like that?

	W:	Well, because it was in our faces, because my daddy was having to go all the way to New York because he couldn’t go thirty-six miles up the highway and we were didn’t think about it as, “Oh! These terrible people.” Because of the way they explained it to us, and they told us the truth, White and Black people were not allowed to use the same the public services. That’s why they have these. And there are people who still believe that that is the way it should go. It’s not going to be that way always, but right now, that’s the way it is. Okay. I went straight through a segregated school, first through twelfth. I graduated. I got my bachelor’s degree at Bethune Cookman. I loved Bethune Cookman. And I got my master’s degree, and I told you this before I think. I don’t know we’ve talked so many times, I got my graduate degree from Washington University in Saint Louis. I tell people that I am not going to hate. Now, I might get pissed off. Oh oh! That’s a—

	RM:	Yeah. Oh, that’s fine. Yeah. W:	Oh! [Laughter]

	RM:	Yeah.



	W:	Snap! What I said? I mean, I do because I see people doing and saying things.



And I believe in standing up in safety. I don’t believe in trouble. I was never





mean to anyone. I never called people names because I knew what it felt like. I wasn’t doing that! Plus, the fact that if anybody that knew my mother said that I said something disrespectful, my—is in trouble. I’m in trouble. I can’t do that. I never did. We never did. She had boys, four boys from six-two to six-seven. She would broke this. And I be saying, “Ah! That’s my statute don’t do that!” but she wanted them to understand, “I’m the rule here.” My dad was gone, she was the momma and the daddy and the warden, and whatever. She’s gone. I’m so happy that we had the parents that we did. I really am. I thank God all the time because we had great parents. Now, what was I talking about and I hopped all over getting beatings?! [Laughter]

	RM:	Segregation, I think.



	W:	Okay. As a child, I noticed things. I noticed one of them was that my mother could not try on shoes. She liked very nice stuff. I guess that’s where I got that from.

	RM:	[Laughter]



	W:	No, because I have skinny feet. I got to pay a fortune. But my mother liked nice things and she would go into some of the nicest stores in Ocala. Now, some stores would allow my mother to try on things. I guess they must have known this when she was a girl because they have old home week and they’d start talking and, “What you looking for? Here and take these in the back, see if this fits you.” Then, if you want anything like that. But most stores would not allow Blacks to try on. Okay, that was like…you need to know your size, your shoe size, your dress





size, whatever. But, there was a store in Ocala called Rylons. I think that was the name of it. It was owned by a Jewish family.

	RM:	Hmm.



	W:	You know what? I probably got this all mixed up. I need another brain but I just know that that was a store with exclusive clothing and shoes. And my momma and her twin sister, Martha, knew they loved that store. And they were always able to go in. They were treated with dignity. And if I’m not mistaken, I don’t know if my mother worked for somebody in that group when she was girl. I got to get that story before all of the older ones go. I’m going to ask my cousin. I’m glad that we are talking about this. And I know you didn’t ask me about all this mess I’m talking about.

	RM:	No, this is all good.



	W:	But, I didn’t know what was going on but when I learned I’m like, “These people were brave.” They were loving. They were kind. They would come to our house. And, I didn’t know who they were other than my mom might mention, “When I was a girl, I worked for Miss—whatever, it was another name, too. There were some deep relationships formed during the time there was so much hate, and worse thing what I experienced. I’m talking about my mother was born in 1920. She and her twin, Mary and Martha. And, I just remember that there were people on the other side of town that were really good people, really good. And they would have the chauffer bring them in front of the house, and open the door and they’d get out and go on in and laugh and talk with my mother. And, what is the youngest boys’ name? But, you know that’s life and that’s everywhere. And I am





grateful to God that my parents never taught us to hate. Oh, no! We didn’t hate. We did not hate. Now, did my younger brothers, when integration occurred in their middle school, did they fight? Yes. But they got in trouble if my mother found out about it. That’s just the way she felt. And her parents were that way and I’m that way. I don’t like that. People are people, they really are. People are people. And there are some people that are not good, and we have to accept that. I don’t mean to say “You all kept on being bad”. But you know, you have to just do what you can and move on. Take care of who you can, move on. Help who you can, move on. I don’t care if they are looking at me meanly, I always made it my point when I was picketing—I made eye contact with everybody that passed me. And it was with a smile because I didn’t want them to think that we were mad with them. They might not feel the way young people feel. I wanted them to know we are human beings who care about others, and that’s it! I wasn’t mad with those people. I really wasn’t. I was not angry, that was the way of the world. And I wanted to be a part of helping to change it. And, I’ll go on the picket line today if you want me to. [Laughter]

	RM:	They need to, the way things are going.



	W:	Oh! My daughter would have a fit, “Mommy, you need to stay at home.” I bet you! She’s in law school in Savannah. I bet you anything comes up, I know she is out there. But see, I have no way of knowing that. And I know she’s going to be careful. I believe in people helping each other. It’s enough bad going around.

Help somebody if you can. That’s when I went to Iran after I got out of jail. People thought I was going to Iran, I was going out of the country because I’d been put





in jail. I thought about it, I did not realize it until years later. They said, “You went to Iran with your aunt and uncle so you can get out of jail?” By then, you know I’m about sixteen, seventeen, and I’m cussing. And I say, “What the fuck are you talking about?” Don’t put that, I do not say those words! I said “What the fuck you talking about, I was with my aunt!” I was with my aunt and uncle. My uncle works for USAID, and their daughter, older than I am and then they got young sons; so they wanted company for Beverly. And she was happy to have me because she’s a few years older than me, but we could do the same things. She had already graduated from grad school. I was a year away from graduating from high school but we were like in the same group, and we laughed and talked together. But I’ll never forget that. I said, “Really?! You think we got that type of money? We can pop up and say, oh, we got to get her out of town?!” We’re alright, but we ain’t that rich! No. But, that was kind of funny. Funny, funny. But the people over there, like I’m talking now, love talking. They said, “Were you involved in the Civil Rights Movement over the summer month?” The bible teacher at the school said, “Were you involved in the Civil Rights Movement?” I said, “Oh, yeah!” And he looked at me and he says, “You were?” I said, “Yeah. Everyday!” He said, “Well what did you do?” And I told him what we did, “You know it was a nonviolent movement and we had our places to be.” I just told him a little bit of stuff. He said, “I think I would like to interview you on one of our programs at school.” I’m sixteen, I don’t care! I can tell you exactly what goes on. And what we did and what we didn’t do, and what were weren’t allowed to do because the rules were strict, as I mentioned earlier. You don’t talk to anybody! I didn’t say this part, if





you pass me on the street, and I saw you while I was picketing, and you said “Hello”, I would smile. Because I would sure couldn’t say “Hey! Ryan! What’s up!” Because you’d like…the observer would come and snatch your butt. That you could rest—help you understand the significance of you being here and acting in the manner in which you must act. A lot of people thought you just get a group together and we go out. Unh-uh. It was strictly business. Anyway, I loved it. I don’t even know what I was talking about when you asked me.

	RM:	All good stuff! All good stuff. How did you get started in the movement? Where does that begin? Do you remember?

	W:	Yes. The center of the movement was at Covenant Baptist Church. The fiery son of the pastor whose name was Frank Pinkston, he was the leader of the Civil Rights Movement. We had mass meetings at his fathers’ church. People would be outside in the window trying to see what was going on because the church would be packed. The people in the community were eager to help in any way they could. Everybody didn’t picket, everybody couldn’t do that because they didn’t want to lose their jobs. We had none. My father was already deceased, but my mother worked for Florida School for Girls. Ms. McPherson, you know that name? McPherson. A very powerful woman, tiny woman, but when she spoke the clouds separated. She was a very nice person. She was in charge of the Florida School for Girls. It used to be called Forest Hill or now it’s the prison but there was a school for girls. I am trying to think what it was called, it was called Florida School for Girls but it was a school for girls who had gotten into trouble.

Something like Mary Anna, anyway, all those things I think are closed now. But,





this was a school for girls who had gotten in trouble, like back then you skipped school too much, you’re in trouble. Some of them for little shop lifting, little things. They had broken the law in some ways. And they lived in cottages. Ms.

McPherson was a wonderful woman. She was something else. She was tough but she was a good woman. She believed in taking care of young people, children. My mother worked there. She taught the girls cosmetology because the idea was to prepare them for their lives away from the institution, to give them something to look forward to. So they offered a lot of things out there for them, in addition to their education. They had graduations. If they graduated there, they graduated. Ms. McPherson loved people and she believed in helping those children. She did whatever she could do to expose them, and I am going to use their term, “To the free world”. She would let my mother bring girls to her house. She and my mother were like two peas in a pod. Ms. McPherson—they were also sending food so they girl had something to eat but they had to eat free world food at our house. They loved coming there. So, my mother—there was nothing wrong with the food, but she wanted them to experience being a part of our family. So, we ate, laughed, and talked. That was really a good thing that happened out there. Ms. McPherson was responsible for that because she let my mother bring those girls to our house. They were a part of our family for those few hours that they were there. Ms. McPherson understood the importance of doing something like that. Couldn’t do all of them like that because some of them girls really had serious problems. Anyways, talk to me! Tell me what you want!

	RM:	All that! All that’s good.





	W:	I’m just talking because that’s way back in my life. I’m an old lady now.



	RM:	But these are all important stories. Did she have cosmetology training, or where did that come from?

	W:	Yeah. She had to go all the way to Philadelphia because of segregation. She was training in Philadelphia. And no, I’m not mad. I’m not! I mean that’s the way it was! Thank God for Philadelphia. And thank God my aunt that lived there, so my mom could just go and right and stay with her, be trained, open her own beauty salon, sent to college. Thank you, Lord. My mother was not angry. This was what was going on at that time. Now, I tell you this, I was little bit more angry than my mother, about her, when I learned. Because I’m older when I learned. I’m like, “Oh! I’m not going to say any bad word”, to myself. I said, “You did what?! You had to do what?! Okay!” She was very low key, she was a tough mom. She had boys from six-seven to six-three. She would try to throw anything at them. And the whole neighborhood would run. She was a sweetheart, though. She really was, with her boys. When she said move, you better move, go outside or whatever, don’t do that, don’t throw things like that in the house. I said “What else you”—[laughter], and you know what she never hurt anybody because they were all—[laughter].They were these long legged jokers and she would just throw, but she was a sweetheart. She sent five children to college. We were not of great means but my mother can put two nickel’s together and make a dollar because she could save money, she knew how to use it. She had her goals and you may as well get with it because it’s all you’re going to get, what she’s talking about. And she was very sweet about it, except when she was throwing things at





them. I stood back. But she was a sweetheart. I thank God for my father because he always wanted to make sure—both of them wanted to make sure that we experienced different places, had different experiences, going to activities that showed stuff that we were not familiar with. My older brother and I were in high school during segregation. My mother made sure that we traveled, our family, my mom and dad, we traveled all over everywhere. We’d go up to New York, North Carolina, South Carolina—just over the country to be exposed. She told me that the reason she wanted to do that is because she had to prepare us to take the test that we would be taking in school. It was not until I was older, I realized what she was saying. If you haven’t seen it, if you haven’t read it, if you haven’t experienced some part of it, how would you know to respond to something about that? You won’t. We made sure our little girl went everywhere, everywhere she could. I’m grateful to God for my family, my extended family, my husband, and our daughter who likes to correct me about stuff. It might have been said one way in ancient times when I was growing up, “Mommy, people don’t say that anymore.” I said, “You know what I’m talking about though, don’t you? It’s not a foreign language.” I can’t even think of one of those words. She’s a sweetheart. I’m going to hush.

	RM:	Did your mom work? She opened a beauty salon in Ocala? Or what was—? W:	She worked. Ms. McPherson was her boss. She worked at the school for girls. RM:	So that was where she used her degree?

	W:	That’s where she taught them how to be beauticians. She wanted to make sure they got their license on the first try, so she prepared them for that while she was





there at school. So that they could go out into the world, they were old enough, and they could get jobs and not fall back into what had existed when they had to come there. I remember most of the girls there were no different than me. I had fun out there with those kids. They just needed some guidance, I guess. They are not what would be put in something like that—Now what kids would we put in a…I don’t think—do they have detention? Who are the kids who are there?

	U1:	Do you want me to name each one?



	W:	No, what do they do? What kind of crimes do they commit? That’s okay. U1:	Class one and class two crimes.

	W:	I don’t know what that means. I knew he was going to get into that police thing.



Thank you, I appreciate your help.



	U1:	I’m going to leave.



	W:	[Laughter] He knew exactly what I was talking about. You a bad boy. Oh, goodness I messed up. What was I supposed to be telling you?

	RM:	I was just asking what your mother did with the cosmetology, she was teaching—



	W:	She taught cosmetology. Because of segregation, she had to go to Philadelphia to be trained for her license, but you know what? I thank God for my parents. We were never, ever, ever taught to hate. Never. We would talk a whole bunch of trash when I’d be with my brother. He said, “These people are crazy. What are they talking about? These same people, they don’t want to come by in the stores, are taking care of their babies”—because we had aunts. We would just laugh because we couldn’t get it. They’re taking care of babies, can’t try on clothes. But it’s okay, thank God I was never taught to hate. My mother was never taught to





hate. Her parents were from North Carolina. She and her twin were born in Ocala, right on Broadway. We never had hate, and very much involved in Civil Rights Movement. My older brother, me, and the brother under me, not the babies, not the younger ones—they wanted to go but they didn’t know what they were talking about. My mother wasn’t letting her babies out of the house with her other children. Our parents, our families, were very much involved in the movement and attended the mass meeting that were held at Covenant Baptist Church. Reverend Frank Pinkston was the leader of the movement in Ocala. I can tell- I think I might have mentioned it to you before Ryan, but maybe not but I’m gonna say it again, I can tell you that in picketing we had rules. We couldn’t— “What’s up!” we could just move, make our turn and come back. One of the things I always did is that I made eye contact with everybody. I could tell most of them would look at me and eyes do smile. And some of them would look down with a smile but I made sure—because I don’t want anyone to think I am hating them, that’s why I’m out here walking. I’m walking to help me and my people. So, if I get a smile from you that’s a pat on the back. I didn’t say all that, this is what I’m thinking. That’s not what I did. I was never mean. I smiled. I made eye contact, some of them were, and they looked up again thinking I was gone but no I was still picketing. I am so grateful to God for my parents. We were never, ever taught, never, to hate. I don’t care who it was, what they had done. Move out of the way and pray for them. I didn’t do that all the time, because I’d be mad. I grew up with that and I taught my daughter that. She knows. I’m a late bloomer baby boomer, so I have a twenty-something year old daughter. I’m just grateful to





have grown up when I grew up. I’m grateful for the forbearance that I had. I’m grateful for the many people that have been so gracious and trying to do everything they can to help in a positive manner. I was seeing the other part all the time, but it was good for me to see other people who didn’t look like me, and know. And, I knew that before, because Ms. McPherson. I love Ms. McPherson, out there at Forest Hill School for Girls. She was a good person. She cared about all those girls, White, Black, whatever. They came in there. She was going to make sure they had good education. They learned things they had not learned before. Setting tables, cooking, they had some of everything out there. She was really a good lady. Anyway, I don’t know what I was talking about but I believe that people are taught to hate. I don’t think babies just wake up—you looking at them they’re smiling. “Hi, baby”. Eye contact. Smiling. So all of that rolling the eyes and spitting at people, where does that come from? We are taught that. My mother didn’t play that. You don’t do that kind of stuff, period. We never did that to anyone because if she had found out she would’ve [sound]. She was a strong arm because my father was gone. My father had died. What was I supposed to be talking about, Ryan? What’s going on?

	RM:	We were talking about picketing and all of that, but can I ask you what could you tell us, we who never who never got to meet him, about Frank Pinkston?

	W:	Frank Pinkston was a man of God. He had a way of expressing himself that would just draw one in, and we are going to be listening to him as long as he wants to talk to you. He was a brilliant man, a very loving and kind man. He taught at my high school, he taught at Howard. I don’t know what Frank taught,





but anyway he taught at Howard at one point, not all the time because he didn’t always live in Ocala. He was a kind man. He could preach the top off the church. People would be standing out trying to look in the windows at night when we’d have mass meetings because he was, as they say, throw down. And it was no evil. It was all good. People would be falling out shouting, clapping and hollering. And it was all about what was going on, mixed with the bible, okay. He was just a talented preacher. I really enjoyed having had the opportunity to sit in Covenant Missionary Baptist Church and listen to him. I’m telling you, people were in the windows because you couldn’t get into the church. And that was a nice sized church. They were in the windows. That’s when we could do that because everybody didn’t have air conditioning in the churches. And the windows would be open and people would be in the windows. A good man. I had felt really bad about his demise. But he was a good man, and he was a great leader. He pulled people together like syrup and flies, they would just come to him because they knew he wasn’t coming up some foolishness, saying crazy stuff. Whatever he said was straight from the bible or straight from the law, or straight from something he had experienced. He was a loving and kind man. He was a teacher at Howard High when I was there, I think. Now, I’m old. But anyway I know he was there at one point. He was at Howard. And then I was old and leaving. I appreciate having known him and experienced his words, his ideas. I appreciate that.

	RM:	I know there were training for demonstrators, sometimes they’d train in the basement—





	W:	Oh, yeah. We trained in the basement. RM:	Did he run that? Or was that—

	W:	No, no he didn’t run that. RM:	Okay.

	W:	He was on the upper tier. He was not on the training tier. He was a leader, there were people who were assigned to teach us how far to stand. They didn’t want anyone to be in jail for being too close. Even though, I got my turn. Somebody went and told my momma, “All three of your children in jail.” But you know what? We were singing, spirituals. They marched our behinds right up into the jail. It was strictly business. If you came to play, don’t stay. These are the rules, we have to be so far apart. You are not to speak with anyone but the person who has been assigned as your observer. If you need to say something, if you have some needs that need to be taken care of? None of that. You get their attention when they come near you, then you talk. When they begin to talk, you talk otherwise…we all knew it because we all were trained. One of things I think was helpful for us during the movement is that we followed the rules, because some people would want to park their cars and get on the picket line. It couldn’t happen. That’s why we had observers who could talk to people and say, “I’m sorry, we are not allowed to let you in this time. But you’re welcome to meet us at the church sometimes if you’re interested in being involved.” They didn’t just push people away. You really couldn’t do that because you could get the whole line in trouble if somebody start doing something they not supposed to do. We were trying to stay out of it if we could. The older I get the more I appreciate the





organization of the movement because it wasn’t a fly by night. I think a lot of times when violence occurs, somebody has done something to bother somebody else or something has happened because people don’t just start fighting unless they’re attacking. And that’s when we cover our heads and try to get out of the way. They always told us to use our cards the best we can, if somebody is coming toward you to fight. But thank you Lord, I didn’t have that experience of somebody trying to attack me or any group I was in. But I know that they can become kind of messy. I worry about my daughter, but I know she’s going to be okay. She’s in school in Savannah. She’s okay but I think she’s kind of like me. I don’t know, it’s not bad but I don’t want my baby—you know what I’m saying?

Because people are different now, I’m looking at TV at night, and my God. It was pure frightening. Evil. It just made me sad. This is the United States of America, and this is going on? That young lady was murdered and her mother took the high road. She spoke beautifully. And I was praying for her, and her family. But it can happen. And I hate this—I’m not gonna say anything. I’m gonna leave that alone. I’ll leave that alone.

	RM:	Okay. If I remember right, you did get death threat phone calls and things back when you were in the movement. Is that about right?

	W:	No. Not directly to me, but they would call a number that they knew was a number. But they would get calls from people saying bad things. We had protection. I’m going to leave it—[Laughter].

	AM:	What was the number people were calling to? W:	You mean people who were having problems?





	AM:	Yeah, who were they calling?



	W:	Oh, no. We didn’t have numbers calling. What we had was observers. There was somebody always somebody watching us. We might not see them, other people might not see them.

	AM:	Oh, no. I meant the phone calls. Who were people making those phone calls to?



You said you weren’t getting them directly to yourself. Your organization had a number, or?

	W:	The organization had a number down at the church were headquarters was. But what was a part of our protection was there was always an observer and they knew what to do as soon as something happened. They knew how to make contact. That was a good thing. Sometimes we could see the person because we’d always look around because we’d be looking around for crazy people, too. See, that wasn’t a nice term was it? You know what I’m saying, people who are anti what we were doing. But there were a lot of people who cared. And those are the people that I appreciated. There were people who did not want to be known as helping but would do anything to help us. We left it like that, it was okay. And they were protected, like we were protected. It was like “Don’t mess with it.” “You better stay away because we are the Hunting and Fishing Club.” These guys, they protect us and they were all hunters and fishers. They were!

They still do hunting and fishing, many of them are gone now. I got to call somebody and see about the Hunting and Fishing Club but I bet they still got some boys out there. They were, and they were serious. When they were at the church, if they needed to be they were at pacing’s, they were wherever they





needed to be because it was thought that they couldn’t be protected by the people who are supposed to be protecting. So you have to do what you have to do, when have to do it. And I appreciated them. They were great men of honor to do that, to stay all night long. And they had big weapons; Hunting and Fishing Club, that’s the reason they have it, because they were the Hunting and Fishing Club. But they were, they all—oh, God. I think about these things and how far that we have come. And now we are going backwards. I shouldn’t say that, but I feel that because of what I am listening to and seeing on TV. These groups coming together openly saying what they’re saying. I ask our daughter, just be careful. Don’t go near crowds. Stay away from places you are not familiar with. “Go home.” She calls me all the time, she’s twenty-five I think. I say, “Take your—home.” And that’s what I say. We debate, “Ugh. Mommy, please!” But things have gotten worse since…and there are a lot of followers. I don’t know.

	RM:	Do you remember who the observers were? Like who were they, do you remember any of the names?

	W:	I could probably call somebody. Oh my goodness, who could I call? All those guys they were strictly business. We loved them. They would be there before the crowd started getting in. And we all new them by name, “Hi, Mr. James!” I remember him very well, “Hey baby, you all go on in there, now.” Because when he start shooting, he don’t want to shoot you. But that’s what they would say, “Alright baby, now you all go on in there, now.” “Okay.” Oh! I’m going to have to call somebody and find out, because some of those guys of course are gone. I remember Mr. James because he worked at Howard.





	RM:	I think you said Miriam Hampton was an observer, was that right?



	W:	No, let me tell you. She wasn’t an observer assigned to a specific place but she was an observer because she was concerned. And she would ride around and look at children. And see what was going on with the children, all around the square. She just cared about people. She would tell us, “Yeah Mary, I saw all of your children all up there on the square, but they’re okay.” In whatever manner she was asked to help, she would help. Her children were younger than me but she would ride through, and everybody would be hollering. We not supposed to talk, right. “Mrs. Hampton”. But everybody knew, she was coming through, checking to see what was going on. She was a sweetheart. A lot of people were watching and praying for us, they were. I believe people had weapons, more than the Hunting and Fishing Club. I just felt that way because they were like lone wolves. They would say in meetings, “I like to ride by and look at the children, the participants, I want to make sure that they’re okay, I don’t want anyone looking sad, I don’t want anybody who might be sick.” And so, people would ride by.

They didn’t have weapons or whatever but they were a part of the community of people who were concerned about what was going on in Ocala. There were people on the other side of town who care. They were good people, they cared. And I know that. I know one of them real well. She’s gone. There’s so many good people but it’s the bad people that stand out because the good people aren’t trying to say “I’m over here honey, and I’m trying to help these kids”. They don’t do that. They do their thing, and that’s it. God is good and his mercy is everlasting because a lot of us wouldn’t be here. I’m just grateful to have had the





family, my family, my immediate family, and my extended family; all of my teachers from Belleview Santos. I went to Belleview Santos for one year because my aunt taught there and so she drove me out, from first— Second grade I came back to town, I was in school at Madison Street. All my teachers from Belleview Santos to Madison Street to Howard Elementary to Howard High, were jewels.

They said the right things that children need to hear. They need to be told to be kind to others, somewhere other than at Sunday school and at the house. These are other people that they respect. They taught us a lot of the things that I learned in school were a part of what I was learning on the picket line. Keeping me shut up, plain old shut up! Keep your mouth shut! Raise your hand, and one of the observers will come to you. That was the rule really, but I learned it in first grade. “Shut up”, they didn’t say it like that. Ms. Gary was my first grade teacher. If you raise your hand or look toward them, they were coming. We’re not supposed to talk because they could say we were inciting a riot, or whatever. So we could not talk, but we sure did mumble to each other. But I am grateful to have experienced that part of the Civil Rights Movement. I’m grateful there were a number of people I would’ve never met had I’d not been involved. I am truly, truly, truly grateful for that experience. And I share it with my daughter because I want her to know that we have come from a mighty long way and that we will not be turning back. I tell her it’s her turn now. It doesn’t mean going out picketing. It doesn’t mean going to jail. It means helping another child to read, help another family to get what they need. If they need food, we find a way to get food for them. Doing everything we can to help others. Somebody helped us through





something. She’s kind of in that spirit. I said, “Oh, Lord help my child out here in the streets”. See, I knew my mom was scared because she had three children in jail at the same time. I don’t want to think of it again. I could see her, she’s just like her momma because she loves helping other people. But anyway, that’s who she is. I don’t know who she got that from. She’s a good kid but she’s concerned about how people are treated. I’m sure there’s not a picket line she hasn’t wanted to go gotten on. I bet there’s not a picket line that has something to do with her and her school, or her city, that she hadn’t been on. I want to know because things are different now. People are more angry now and they seem to have a leader that likes that. And what can we do, but try to protect each other? That’s all we can do because were not running anything. And that is a major reason why I fear for my child and all of the young people now. Because they see things going on wrong, and they want to do something about it. It’s the same way I felt. I was serious about my business, so I understand that. There’s a lot more evil now. There’s a lot more evil going on. I think the best thing I can do is pray for all of us, ask God to direct our path, ask God to intervene and direct their path because, we don’t need that. We don’t need it. We can be at a good place without them. So I keep praying, I keep praying, and I’m going to keep praying; because, this is our country. And it’s a great country, but we have people who feel differently about different things. Help us, Lord. Only you can save us. Did I miss something? Here I am having church. I had to get that in because I’m afraid.

	RM:	Yeah.





	W:	I’m afraid. My baby is in Savannah, in law school. I can see her now. She’s just like her momma. I can see her, “No, they didn’t do that, did they?” And somebody say, “Yeah, they did it!” But I think we’re going to have to have a talk. No, I’m going to let her daddy have the talk with her. I think that would be better because all she could say to me, “Well, momma. How are you going to tell me not to do this? You’ve been all in jail and stuff, this my time.” I’m sitting up here, I’m so glad that you’re here because I’m talking about things I had forgotten about. Little things during that time. And a couple of people that I had forgotten, that they were out there too. I considered it a blessing and a great honor to have been able to participate in the movement. I’m just thankful that my mother allowed us. She knew that what she did was not involved. But she knew that what we were doing was right, and so she allowed it. And I know she was afraid, but she had a good boss. Ms. McPherson. “Mary, go and see about your children”, she would tell her to leave work. Were out there picketing and going to jail and stuff. But when you see that name McPherson… that was a powerful lady. She was a good person. She cared about people, she cared about kids, and she ran those schools out there. It was segregated at the time. Now it’s all one. I don’t know if it still exists, what am I talking about? There was one for Black kids and the other for White kids. She was in charge for both of them. She was a wonderful woman. She believed in taking care of children. She wanted them to have the best of whatever they had, the freshest of food. She was a good woman but she did not play the radio. You understand what I’m saying? She was tough. I loved her. She was a good person, she was. And I appreciate her. She’s gone but she’s always





going to be in my mind, about things she did. She would tell me momma when all the stuff was breaking the rules. She would call my mom and say, “Mary, go home and see about your children.” She figured we were all in jail. “Out of here, you need to go home.” That’s how she was. Yes, Ms. McPherson. Yes. Good person, good person. Loved people, loved children. Tough. As they say, didn’t play the radio. But she was a good person. Kind person, who understood the needs of people. And did what she could. That’s the way she was. Now, how did we get on Ms. McPherson? Because I just think she’s a good lady, she really was—about kids, I guess that what it was about.

	RM:	Yeah. And I guess how she worked with your mother.



	W:	Yes, at the school. She was my mother’s boss. She was everybody’s boss. She ran the whole show, both schools during segregation and afterwards. The school for White kids and the school for Black kids. Each one had a principal but she was the, boss. Good person. Tough. And you wouldn’t think she was a diminutive lady, didn’t play the radio. I liked her.

	RM:	So you were in high school while you were also in the movement? W:	Unh-uh.

	RM:	Oh, you were not? W:	Unh-uh.

	RM:	Oh, this is after the movement?



	W:	Wait a minute, wait a minute—I can tell you no. I know I wasn’t in the movement during high school because my momma would have killed me.

	RM:	Ah, okay.





	W:	“You got to go to college! You going to be in jail, and the people accept you in college?” No, she wouldn’t have said that. She would have come right on down there and have done whatever the people told her to do. “Don’t go down there!” They going to let them out because it’s too many of them to feed, just let them stay long enough until it’s time to eat. Sure enough, we were walking out of jail. They don’t want to feed all those kids. We hadn’t done anything. They were showing force because we knew the rules about picketing. How far apart, you know we were all trained. You couldn’t just come off the street and say “I’m going in line,” because every group had an observer, and that observer would say “Excuse me, with which group are you?” “I want to be in this one.” “Oh, I’m sorry. We can’t allow that.” You know because it would cause problems, person might have never experienced it and might start hollering back at people and stuff. And we could only talk with one person. And that’s that observer that came to us, nobody else. That was some experience. That was a great experience. Every now and then I’d be talking to my daughter about it. She’s a mess. She’s a good kid but I could see her now on the first line that she could get in. Oh! No. She’s a good kid but I just know her. I just pray. That’s all I can do is pray. But she’ll be fine. Is this all on the thing?

	RM:	Yeah.



	W:	Well, okay. Cut whatever you want to but I’m telling the truth. As I think about it, how afraid was my mother? Three children, same time, everybody in jail. The only reason the other two were in jail was because they were babies. They were little kids. They probably would have been out there. But you know what, I am





grateful to God for life, for my family, my husband, our daughter, all of my family, my friends, my experiencing a lot, being able to travel, a lot. I just feel blessed.

I’m just so grateful, so grateful for my life experiences. And I’m hoping that others will come along that can stay there, you know, because there’s a lot of stuff still going on, it’s going to continue. And the situation we are in now, I can see it getting worse in some spots. We can’t stop fighting for what is right. That’s what we have to do. Would I go on the picket line again? Probably. You’d have to be in another country. “You go.” “No.” I can see him now, “You told me what, huh?” “Oh, no. Huh.” No. But he’s a good guy, was telling me “I’m not going in, and you’re not either, go to bed, whatever.” He would say it like I’m saying it, because you could tell he is a little low key. He just said and go on about his business.

That’s my baby though, that’s my sweetheart. I love him. He is a blessing to me and I adore him. He’s a good guy. He’s going to say, “Now, why did you have to talk so long? You know these people have somewhere else to go.”

	RM:	We’re happy to hear you. What about O.V. Pinkston, do you remember much about him?

	W:	He was the senior pastor of that church. He could preach the top off the church, too when he was going strong. He was very kind in general yet strong man, he really was. Other than mass meetings I would go to that church if they were having a special activity or something there. He could preach. His son could preach, oh my goodness. They could preach. I could just sit there. I’m a United Methodist, so you know we go to church at eleven o’clock and by eleven-thirty, eleven-fifty, we got to be out. Not there. And I didn’t care because I was into





whatever they were saying, the message. They didn’t have quick service. They were getting out one-thirty, two. There’s nothing wrong with that, the messages were great. So every now and then my mother would let us go because hadn’t been my father’s church. He was Baptist, my mother was United Methodist. So we went with our mother, so every now and then she would allow us to go to that church and I loved going there because I’d see a lot of my friends, my aunts, my uncles. My daddy’s family were all Baptist and my mother’s family were Methodist at the time, which became United Methodist. But I loved going there because it was different from my church. My church was more laid back and quiet. Closer to, but not quite the catholic churches. I loved going to church because that’s were all my friends where. All of this in on this?!

	RM:	Yeah. It’s all in there.



	AM:	I wanted to know if it’s okay to take pictures of the interview. W:	Of me?

	AM:	Yeah. Well, just while you’re talking.



	W:	Oh! I don’t care. I don’t know what I look like. RM:	You look great.

	AM:	You look lovely.



	W:	I have to ask Sam. Look here, is my hair straight? AM:	You look lovely.

	W:	Well, yeah. I don’t know what it’s going to look like. I am the point, right now, I’m not as persnickety about it. I might get up in the morning and I might put on anything, it’ll be matching, I’ll be decent, I’ll be covered.





	RM:	That’s all you need.



	W:	I just want to be comfortable. I got to have stockings, and shoes. That’s why I retired. Wow. A long time ago. This has been really good for me, just bring back these memories. It’s not often, unless I’m at a class reunion or something, and that’s the upper class, and what we did in high school. But it’s not often that I get to sit down and go way back like that. I have cousin in Williston who I believe is my oldest cousin. We talk and she has told me a lot of stories because she’s quite a bit older than I am. We laugh and talk, and I said oh, my goodness I wish that I had been recording some of that stuff that Earnstein would say because I had never heard it before, talking about one of my cousins that’s really older than me. And she knows stuff about my father’s family that I don’t know, because she’s quite a bit older. Back in the day when grown folks were together in the living room… “Get out of here.” “You do not sit here and listen to grown folks conversations,” but now that I’m old I ask my older cousins about everything.

They tell me all kind of stuff, and now I‘m enjoying it because now I’m old. Because I want to know, what’s the secret? You say bad words, we heard all the bad words; because, they’ll get mad and we could hear them. But anyway. Get out of here! And we would all get in the back and [Imitate laughter], but I’m grateful to God that we’ve had a good life. We’ve had ups and downs, like anybody else. But I am truly grateful for my life, my family, my husband, a wonderful man, our beautiful daughter, my siblings that I have left. I’ve had a good life and we were not people of tremendous means but we had everything we needed. You couldn’t tell me that I was missing anything because I thought I





had everything I needed, and I did. And I think about it. When we were in college, I think I had a little job at the desk in the freshman dorm. I was at Bethune Cookman and my brother Craig was at Morehouse in Atlanta. My mother had those two at the same time. And for one year, she had three kids in college. I don’t know how that happened. But my mother could take a dime and make a dollar. She knew how to handle her business. Both my parent’s made sure that we got to see as much as the United States as we could. And she would say later on when I was older, “We have to make sure that you’re able to pass the tests that are being given.” And she was doing that before we started taking tests. They would just take us all over. All through North Carolina see her family, South Carolina, granddaddy’s family, all up to New York, taking us to see everything that we read about. I thought about that. She didn’t say it to me but one time, “You need to pass the test that you’re going to be given in school. I don’t know when they give those tests but I want you to see our country. And I want you to see what your reading about in those books because it’ll help you to really remember it, because you say, ‘Oh, we were over there.’” And I thought about it, and my momma is a widow with five children, and here we are in the station wagon with a whole bunch of junk food and everything else, traveling America. We never went on the west coast. We’d been on the west coast but not as a family. But she made sure of that. And the older I become the more I appreciate my parents because they did things, and they didn’t have to tell us what they were doing, why they were doing it. We hopping in the station wagon, four boys, and me. We’d hop in the station wagon and be happy to go. My daddy





would get us off of my momma’s mind by taking us to Paradise Park, I think I mentioned that to you. We’d go to Paradise Park, we’d have our swim suits on, we’d run to the cold water. But I’m just grateful to God for my life, for my family, for my friends, for all the people like you that I have met. And I have said things that I have never talked about. I’ve talked to you about stuff I’d never talk about to people. Not because I didn’t think anything of it. As you ask me questions, I say, “Oh, that part is still working too.” I’m telling you, I would have not been talking about this, even the first time I talked with you I’m like “This is fun.” It lifts my heart and soul to talk about these things that I enjoyed. And anybody that asks me about certain things, I would talk about it. You can tell, I’m a talker. I can talk. I would never be talking about this, I wouldn’t. I keep my books and stuff and I reminisce with my older cousin. We were in Iran, together. She was in both Ethiopia and Iran. In fact, she got her undergraduate diploma from Halie Selassie, we got pictures. They were in Ethiopia, but I went with them to Iran. I didn’t know how I was going to do because I was going to have to be away from my family for a year, going with my aunt. But they wanted, some company for Beverly. Beverly wanted company. I was the company. I so happy to have gone. I really did. I was trying to speak Farsi the first day. All I knew was, “Hello, how is your health?” Eventually, as time went on, I was an old lady. And then back in Ocala I would hear people in Ocala speaking Farsi. And I would say “Excuse me, what language are you speaking?” And they say, “Persian.” I said, “I knew that was Farsi. Uh-huh!” They say, “What do you know about Farsi?” I said, “I lived in Tiran for a year.” They said, “You did?” I said, “Yeah, I lived right down the street





from Aryamehr Stadium, the soccer stadium.” “Where are you from?” I said, “Ocala. Do you live in Ocala?” They said, “Yes”. I say, “You live in Ocala?” Then I began to meet them. And so, I am happy to see them whenever I see them because they just smile. I say, “I’m your home girl from Tiran.” And they just laugh. But it’s amazing, Ocala. I’m running into people from Tiran in Ocala. Isn’t that something? I love seeing that, and I love seeing them. I always address them in Farsi. I love that. Oh, Lord. These are my homefolks. I enjoy seeing them and I’m glad they are doing well. I’m glad that they’re happy in Ocala; which, was strange to me, how did they find Ocala? I wouldn’t ask them, “How in the world did you get to Ocala?” I could see them being in Gainesville, you know somewhere near the university. I got several homefolks in Ocala. That was another great experience that I had. I’m glad I got to do that.

	RM:	How old were you when you went to Iran? W:	I had my sixteenth birthday there.

	RM:	Okay. Okay. Wow.



	W:	Yeah. I came back and graduated from Howard High. I had to graduate from Howard High. That was my momma’s, my daddy’s, everybody graduated from Howard High. That was when it was a high school. When I returned I was sixteen. I left at fifteen. I got the opportunity. I have been on every continent except Australia and Antarctica. That’s why I have to thank God because we were not a family of great wealth but we were alright. My mother knew how to put two nickels together and make a dollar. I’m grateful because she could have said, “Unh-uh! No! To who?!” I can hear her telling her older son, “Who?! To





Tiran? To Iran? Taking my only baby girl, who is now fifteen, to Tiran? No.” She said it would be a good experience for me. “Take her, she can go”. I went and got a passport, everything. I was young enough to begin to learn to speak Farsi.

Enough to get around. My aunt, if she knew that I’d be all over Tiran. I would get a taxi, tell them where to go. Once I got the language, I would go. The people were very nice. They would see me and they would say [Speaking Farsi]. My aunt and her son, very fair skinned. I said, “They’re pointing at the car.” And they would say, “They’re pointing at you.” I said, “Well, why are they pointing to me?” And they were smiling. And they were just saying “Black! Black! Very Beautiful.” I was right out of jail because I was in the movement. I’m being bad, I’m telling you all my stuff. But you know what, I feel very comfortable doing this. I said, “Why are they pointing and smiling at me? What did I say? What happened?!” “You’re Black! Black is very beautiful”. And I said, “Whoa!” But I didn’t do that because my aunt would have said, “You get out of here with that.” Then, I learned when I began to speak a little bit more Farsi, the guys, the people I attended in school, it was a Presbyterian school in Muslim country. It was run by the Presbyterian mission. Shah Reza Pahlavi of Iran’s niece and nephew were at my school.

Anyone could pay to go, so I went to the private school. There was an American school there because there were military. This was before things went south for Iran and America. They had American school there but I went to the school where my aunt was teaching and it was a Presbyterian school. I thoroughly enjoyed it. I stayed there a year. Before I learned to speak Farsi, I noticed whenever we were out and my aunt whose fair skinned, both her sons are fair





skinned, and here I am in the car. And the Iranians would look and start smiling. And they would say [Speaking Farsi]. I said, “Aunt B, something is wrong with the car.” And she said, “There’s nothing wrong with the car, they are smiling at you.” I said, “Really?! What might they be saying?” And she told me, “They are saying Black! Black! Very beautiful. Africanis! Africanis!” Oh! When I learned me a few words—my mother would have had a fit. But my aunt would let me walk down the street and into the shops downtown, alone. I would get a taxi, down to what was called Bazaar. I loved those people. They were all smiling. I just got out of jail!

But you know, God works in mysterious ways. This was all planned before going to jail. I knew I was going to Tiran. I had all my shots, I had my passports, everything. And here I am in Iran. I’m like, “Oh, my God!” I couldn’t wait to write my friends at home. I said “Do you know these people think I’m beautiful because I’m Black?” They said, “Well, you are Black and beautiful!” I said, “Yeah, but I just came from America!” But it was amazing. I don’t know what the relationship is now because there’s been a lot of stuff, but I’m just saying this was during it was during the Shah Reza Pahlavi’s era, when there was a relationship with the United States. And it was United States Agency for International Development that my uncle was working for. And I know I couldn’t tell my momma I was walking in Iran by myself. She would have wanted to choke my aunt. But I didn’t think anything of it because people were just very protective of me. They didn’t play. The guy scared me, it sounded like he had cracked the boys back because I did this, and he knew the child had try to pinch me, being fresh. And I reacted and the man came over the child back, you could hear it. And the little boy kept





running because he was afraid to get hit again. I guess that was their play thing that they do. If they don’t get killed. That’s when I learned that people were looking after me. And, what can I say? It was a blessing. I didn’t have sense enough not to know I was not supposed to be by myself because that wasn’t the rule. No rule was given to me like that. There was no rule. I would catch the taxi and I learned enough how to tell them where I wanted to go, and I would go. And the people see me and they would smile. It was like I was a part of the family. I’m right out of jail because of segregation. I’m right out of jail from my own country because of segregation and these people have just— me. I didn’t think about it then, like I’m thinking now. See, when you get old, you start thinking about things. Now wait a minute, I’m American girl, I’m just out of jail, I’m over there and these people are all trying to say nice things to me. Isn’t that something? But I’m a proud American. I don’t like everything about us, but I’m proud. That was really something for me. God, is good. I think he does things in ways we don’t know what he’s doing anyway. But he does them. I had just left hell’s hole and people thought my mother sent me to Iran with my aunt. I ain’t nuts! No! That was in the plan! I had been getting ready for Iran and getting my visas and stuff for a longtime. I was picketing because I wanted to picket because that was the right thing to do. And my mother accepted it and allowed us to do it, but it was the funniest thing. They said, “Mary Caroline, are you going out of the country because you go put in jail?” I said, “Well, you get put in jail, are you going out of the country?” Because you know those people didn’t want us to be bothered with us down at the jail. They had to show force. I just think of so many things. I think





of the people in Iran. I was so sad when it all tumbled and they killed Reza Pahlavi. I was in school with his niece and nephew, we were all at the same school. It was a Presbyterian mission school. People were nice, and the people in the street protected me. I knew they did because they knew their people, like we protect each other. We see something going on, we like do something or say something. That was another of my blessings, to have had that experience. So whenever I hear Farsi being spoken, I say, “What language are you speaking?” They say, “Iranian.” I said, “I knew that was Farsi.” They say, “What do you know about Farsi?” I said, “I lived in Iran near Aryamehr Stadium for a year”. “What?!” It was just a blessing for me. I was in the right place at the right time. My mother allowed me to go. I’m blessed. I’m thankful to God for all my experiences. You know that spiritual, I won’t complain? We all have ups and downs but I can’t complain. That’s weird isn’t? Somebody be over in Tiran from Ocala. No, no. A lot of people travel but not to Tiran. I wish I had been with my family when they were in Ethiopia when Halie Selassie was there. In fact, she graduated from the university there, my cousin. And so, she has a picture with Halie Selassie. I said, “Oh, my God.” Yeah.

	RM:	Can I ask your uncle’s name? The one who was in Tiran, or the one who you traveled with?

	W:	Oh, now he’s deceased. But his name is Lawrence Walker, Senior. Junior is in Atlanta.

	RM:	I see. And your aunt then, his wife, what was her name?





	W:	Her name was Beatrice McRae, M-C-R-A-E, Walker. That was my mother’s big sister. Aunt Martha even went over there, my mother’s twin went to Ethiopia when one of Aunt B’s babies was born. That was a good thing. She’s not with us anymore. We have lots of pictures with her, with Halie Selassie, a lot of good pictures. I want one of our smart young people to put everything together for us so we can have one big or two big or whatever we need. But we do have some good pictures.

	RM:	Sounds that way.



	W:	Uh-huh. Yeah. Yeah.



	RM:	This has been a great interview. Did you have anything you kind of wanted to add? Or any last thoughts?

	W:	[Laughs].



	RM:	Nope!



	W:	I can’t think of anything! I’m sitting up here, you ask me one question and I answered two hundred!

	RM:	That’s what we came for.



	W:	You know what? Your being here with me has been good for me because little things are popping up in my mind that I am sharing with you that I had forgotten about that. Until you mentioned the picture, I had forgotten about Beverly being given her degree by Halie Selassie. That’s a big deal! I hope she knows where that picture is. I’m looking around here. I know it’s not here because I never had it. I’m calling her today. One of her brother tried to salvage everything her could when my aunt, their mother, both their parents died. We have it somewhere. We





need to find those things. I got some ugly pictures of me. No, really, this has been a blessing to me. Really, really a blessing because as you did before, you asked a million questions about things that I remember that, but I’d never thought about that, because I was just moving right along. Everything was fine. It continued to be fine. This has been, can I say cathartic? To have gone this deeply into something that happened long ago. Thank goodness long term memory last. This has been really good for me, so thank you for following it up because we didn’t get a chance to talk about a lot of this stuff that we talked about.

	RM:	That’s true. Thank you for taking the time, and letting visit to you home and all of that. We appreciate it.

	W:	You know by now I like to talk. Especially something good like this. I’m telling you, who would have dreamed I’m going to Tiran, Iran. Huh? Who would’ve dreamed that my cousin would go to Ethiopia and be granted her degree by Halie Selassie? Things happen. God is in control of all things. Things happen because he happens, our being here together, talking. This is quite cathartic for me. So I need to be paying you.

	RM:	[Laughs]. No.



W:  Because it has brought back such happy memories of my youth. I’m still youthful, ha, ha, ha, in a certain way. I’m youthful because I’m still talking, still on this side. I’m grateful for being here. You hadn’t seen my grey hair, had you?

	RM:	No.



	W:	Oh, I love it!





	RM:	Yeah.



	W:	Oh, and the young girls, “Did you dye your hair like that?” I said, “Come on, you kidding. You know I’m old!” “No! Is that your hair?” And I’m like, “Yeah, I’m a hundred years old!”—and everything, did I dye it?! Oh, no! “We don’t dye!” We want to dye it black. I am very happy this stage of my life. I have a wonderful loving, caring husband, Sam. We have a beautiful, twenty-five year old daughter. God is good, and I am truly grateful. I’m glad that you guys came over.

	RM:	And were glad to be here, glad to have come. I guess I’ll stop the recording if that works for you.

	W:	That’s fine.



	RM:	Thank you very much.





[End of recording]









Transcribed by:

Juliette Barbera,

August 28, 2017

Audit-edited by:

Sandra Romero

July 24, 2019

Final edit by: