AAHP 139; Goodrich; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 139 Stephen Goodrich and Sikita Goodrich African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Stephen and Sikita Goodrich on September 4, 2010 23 minutes | 13 pages



Abstract: This interview was conducted at the 2010 Black Alumni Weekend at the University of Florida. The Goodriches interview each other after facilitation by Anna Brodrecht. Stephen Goodrich is interviewed first, describing his upbringing and family history before describing how he ended up going to UF in 1977. He also describes some of his activities on and off campus, and his strategies for success as a student, and asserts that he had to work too hard to party or have too much fun. He then interviews Sikita Goodrich, who also matriculated in 1977. She describes having a difficult time adjusting to Gainesville having come from city life. She also talks about experiences on campus and memories of her time at UF. Both also mention some of the off-campus landmarks in the Black community that they recall going to, such as Mom’s Kitchen or Red’s Two-Spot.



[Keywords: African American History; University of Florida]











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 139

Interviewee: Steven Goodrich and Sikita Goodrich

Interviewer: Steven Goodrich, Sikita Goodrich, and Anna Brodrecht Date: September 4, 2010



	B:	First of all I’ll introduce myself. I’m Anna Brodrecht with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. I’m here with—

	ST:	Steven Goodrich. SI:	And Sikita Goodrich.

	B:	We’re going to let the Goodriches interview each other. Is that all right or would you rather me sit here?

	ST:	Oh that’s fine.



	B:	It might be fun. There was a mother-daughter team. We had a boyfriend and girlfriend interview each other and they were like we didn’t know this stuff about each other because we’ve never thought to ask these questions. I’ll just stand around and if you have any questions or anything.

	ST:	Is it on now?



	B:	Yes, it’s recording. It’s just a voice recording, so there’s no image involved. What you could do is just start by asking the questions on the list.

	ST:	What is your birth date? SI:	October 12, 1959.

	ST:	Wow. Where were you born? SI:	Fort Lauderdale, Florida.

	B:	Feel free to expound on anything. In Fort Lauderdale, in this area and then I moved here. You can expand on anything. It’s all about telling stories. So tell as many stories as you like. Don’t forget it’s not just pro-UF stuff, it can be whatever. Do you want me to check in on you in like fifteen minutes?





	ST:	That’s good. Alright it’s my turn. SI:	So what is your birth date?

	ST:	I was born in 1956, November 3. Boy that sounds like a long time. SI:	Where?

	ST:	In Englewood, New Jersey. SI:	Where did you grow up?

	ST:	I grew up partially in Atlanta, Georgia actually, Decatur and New Smyrna Beach, Florida. I went to high school there, New Smyrna Beach Senior High.

	SI:	Who was in your family? ST:	Mother, father.

	SI:	How many sisters and brothers?



	ST:	I had one sister, she’s the oldest, and two brothers. SI:	What did your parents do for a living?

	ST:	My father worked for the Social Security Administration and my mother worked for the City of New Smyrna Beach as a bookkeeper.

	SI:	Where did you go to school?



	ST:	I went to New Smyrna Beach High School. Elementary I went in Georgia. Did I always plan to go on to college? No, and I think that’s a good question for me. I didn’t have any idea what I was going to do after school. I even had a scholarship to college but I didn’t use it though, to the University of South Florida. I didn’t know anything about it. We never talked about it in my family.

	SI:	How did you get to UF?





	St:	My family decided that working in construction, I was a carpenter, learned from my grandfather, and that was hard work. I decided that I didn’t want to work in that type of industry for the rest of my life. I decided to go on and take some classes at the junior college in Daytona: Daytona Beach Community College. That’s where I went, took some accounting classes, and some other courses, and decided to go into Business Administration. The accounting instructor there at the college told me I should go to the University of Florida because I did so well in his class. University of what, I had never even heard of it.

	SI:	Did your friends go to college? What schools did they go to? ST:	I don’t know where they went.

	SI:	What was your first impression of Gainesville?



	ST:	I loved it, it’s a beautiful town. I loved the trees, I loved the weather, I loved the clay dirt. Partial clay dirt, anyway. It reminded me a lot of coming from up north. Hills. I really loved it. I came here in September of 1977.

	SI:	What did you expect when you got here?



	ST:	I didn’t have any expectations. Like I said, I really did not know anything about the University of Florida. I knew about Bethune Cookman College that was in Daytona Beach and I knew about FAMU which is in Tallahassee. I had never been to Tallahassee in my life. Those were the only two colleges I knew about.

	SI:	Where did you live? ST:	I lived off-campus. SI:	With whom?

	ST:	I was in a rooming house about three blocks from campus.





	SI:	How did you find that? How much did it cost?



	ST:	How much did it cost? That’s been over a quarter of a century ago, how can I remember that? Probably about three dollars a day, something like that. Probably a little more than that, maybe thirty dollars a week, something like that. I’m just guessing, I have no idea.

	SI:	How did you pay for school and your living expenses?



	ST:	I had loans, a work study job, college work-study and some other financial aid. There were some kind of grants I can’t remember the names. If you want me to pull out my paperwork I’ll have to go and do some more work.

	SI:	No that’s okay. What did you do when you got sick, did you go home?



	ST:	I never got sick. I couldn’t afford to get sick. I had to finish this mission. It costs money to stay around here. I didn’t have time for that kind of foolishness. Getting sick wasn’t an option. You get sick, you go to class, that’s it.

	SI:	Where did you get your food from?



	ST:	I went to, what was the name of the little discount? Pantry Pride. Some dent can store and I had food stamps. I had everything you could get. You get to the end of the semester and you’re running cans of pork and beans. That’s about it.

	SI:	Where did you go for fun?



ST:  Everywhere. I used to love to go to the local springs, Ichetucknee. I went over to the St. Augustine Beach. Around town it was up and down University Boulevard. Few campus things, tried to stay away from the campus because I didn’t want to mix business and pleasure too much on the campus.

SI:   Where did you get your hair cut?





	ST:	That is a good question. It was probably down the street from over where I lived on Fifth Street, Fifth Avenue near Red’s Two Spot. I don’t know if you all know where that is, probably gone by now.

	SI:	Where did you get your news?



ST:  I did read the newspaper here. I read the Gainesville Sun newspaper. Television news basically was Jacksonville so it really wasn’t much local stuff other than the campus newspaper.

SI:   Now to campus life, who was your mentor?



	ST:	I didn’t have one. When I came here I was actually a solo artist. Everything that I did to get here I did completely on my own except for that bit of encouragement and motivation from the accounting instructor at the community college. When I got here I didn’t know anyone, no one knew me. I didn’t even have an advisor for picking and selecting classes or instructors. It was all trial and error, live and learn.

	SI:	Who did you feel most comfortable talking to?



	ST:	Didn’t have much in the way of mentoring, again. People I had to talk to were the people I had to do business with, whether it be the financial aid office, or Tigert Hall, instructors I had. I was in the school of accounting so that’s where I spent most of my life, there and the libraries. That was it.

	SI:	Were you in any organizations?



	ST:	Yes, Minority Business Society and then also the accounting society, I forget the name of it. We’re doing great. She’s asking me a whole lot of questions, she doesn’t want me to ask her any.





	B:	It’s 11:08.



	SI:	What was your major? ST:	Accounting.

	SI:	Did you ever change majors? ST:	No, I couldn’t afford to.

	SI:	How many other Black people were in your department or major? ST:	One.

	SI:	Wow.



	ST:	No actually there were probably three including me.



	SI:	Who were your friends? How did you meet each other?



	ST:	We met each other in the school between Matherly Hall, Bryant Hall, library and organizations I was in, which was limited. But that was about it. I don’t want to name any names because it might not be a good idea.

	SI:	Where did you go and what did you do for fun?



	ST:	Where did I go? I didn’t have much fun, we had to study. I don’t know what these people are talking about a party university. We had to take six hour exams, we didn’t have time for that foolishness. People were jumping out of the windows because they made bad grades in the school of accounting, shootin’ themselves. We didn’t have time for fun.

	SI:	Did you go to Gator Growl, Homecoming, football games, any of that?



	ST:	Yes, did all of that. Not as many football games because I didn’t have enough money for all that kind of excess. But I could watch the game from the





racquetball courts. They tore them down now, but I used to be able to watch the game right from the end of the field.

	SI:	Were you involved in any protests on campus? ST:	No, I was very compliant.

	SI:	Who was UF’s president when you were here? ST:	Wow. I only remember Dean Lanzilotti.

	SI:	Who signed our diploma?



	ST:	I’ll have to look at it. I got one here. Keep going, what’s another question? SI:	Off-campus life, where did you go to church?

	ST:	I didn’t. I didn’t have time, I had to study.



	SI:	Did you engage in any local Black community or feel welcome in areas like Fifth Avenue or Porters Quarters, like Mom’s Kitchen?

	ST:	I lived over there that’s where I got my food, Mom’s Kitchen.



	SI:	I remember Mom’s Kitchen. Did you go home on the weekends? ST:	Every now and then, not too much. I had to study.

	SI:	Back to the president, did you find it?



	ST:	Yes, Bob Graham signed it. I see that. I can’t read his signature, it’s horrible. He was the same president.

	SI:	Robert somebody.



	ST:	Anyway, Dean Lanzilotti, I remember him. SI:	Did you watch TV? What programs?

	ST:	No, we had to study I didn’t have time for that.



	SI:	What is it like to come back now to UF? How has the campus changed?





	ST:	It’s amazing actually, it’s a lot more impressive than I can remember when we were here. Of course my circumstances have changed now. I’m able to enjoy some of the other features. Whereas before it was very limited as to what I could do. It’s a much larger campus, much more- it’s bright and sparkly. I like it.

	SI:	What’s it like to meet different alumni from different years?



	ST:	I’m glad to see them. I’m happy to see that the chain is still in place. It’s a strong chain it seems. People that have come behind us and there’s ones before us, it seems like it’s really caught hold.

	SI:	Do you feel a sense of community or a sense of achievement being here now?



	ST:	Yes, the fact that we are here and have come down two years in a row. I think it does say something. Our commitment is strong and it’s growing.

	SI:	Overall do you have good or bad memories of your time here?



	ST:	I have excellent memories, except for the six hour exams and you couldn’t use calculators, couldn’t eat, couldn’t sleep. You had to study, that’s the name of the game here. I talked to other people and they had a lot of fun, I don’t know how they did it though.

	SI:	Do you have any regrets?



	ST:	Maybe not taking it as serious as I could have or should have, listening to some of the words from the speaker this morning. Getting involved a little bit more, I could have, I think. Again, I did my best I think at that time, based on what I knew that needed to be done. To get in and get out. It cost me money to come here. I had to pay back loans. I had to get a job. Get out of here, get a job.

	SI:	Are you proud to be a Florida Gator?





		ST:	I’m so proud to be a Florida Gator. Go Gators. SI:		Go Gators.

	ST:	Now it’s my turn to ask you some questions. How come I never saw you when I got here Sikita? That’s not one of the questions. What years did you attend UF?

	SI:	I attended UF from 1977-1981.



	ST:	What other colleges were you interested in?



	SI:	I was interested in going to Black colleges. Hampton University in Virginia was one that I had my mind on. But I got the money to go to University of Florida and I had family members that lived in Gainesville. So everybody was all excited about University of Florida. That was what we could afford, so that’s how I ended up here.

	ST:	What were your first impressions of Gainesville?



	SI:	I had been visiting for summers because I had a grandmother and great- grandmothers and aunts and cousins. We would visit off and on throughout the years. My impression of Gainesville was like coming to the country. Leaving the city and going to the country. That’s one of the reasons why I didn’t want to go here. I wanted to stay with the city life. It was kind of hard adjusting to having, I think, one mall, one grocery store and you couldn’t get to ‘em like you needed to. I didn’t have a car.

	ST:	Just a horrible life, like green acres.



	B:	Just wanted to let you know its 11:17. Are you all doing the shuttle thing?



	ST:	I don’t think we will. We’ll probably just drive over there. Yeah, we’re having so much fun here.





	B:	Cool. Enjoy. I’ll leave y’all to it. ST:	Where did you live?

	SI:	I lived, well it’s across from the O’Connell Center now, it was East Hall. I lived in there my first year and then I moved to Tolbert Hall. I stayed in the dorm my whole time here.

	ST:	Your whole time here. Wow.



	SI:	I had the same roommate. We met in our freshman year and we remained roommates that entire time.

	ST:	Did you stay in the same room?



	SI:	No, I think we might have changed rooms a few times. ST:	How did you pay for school and your living expenses?

	SI:	Basically with grants and scholarships. I didn’t get any loans. I was pretty excited about that, be able to come and not have to worry about money. I still needed money for expenses, so parents sent that.

	ST:	Did you work any?



	SI:	I had work study, it was a part of my financial aid package. ST:	Where did you get your food from?

	SI:	The first year I was on the meal plan. After that we bought groceries and did our cooking in the dorm. My roommate was a good cook and I was a pretty good cook. We did our own thing. We’d catch rides to the grocery store with people in the dorms that had cars and buy our groceries or we’d catch the bus to the grocery store and catch a ride back.

	ST:	Where did you go for fun?





	SI:	Campus parties. We went to the Rathskeller. Remember the Rathskeller? ST:	Oh yeah, that’s what I was just thinking of. We used to eat and drink at the

Rathskeller.



	SI:	The fraternities and the sororities, when they would have things. We would get rides to different parties off campus.

	ST:	As far as the campus, you did come here to get an education. Did you appreciate having a mentor? Did you have one?

	SI:	I had Betty Stewart, she was a big help. I got involved in the University Gospel Choir. We met a lot of people through that. And she helped a lot.

	ST:	She’s helped a lot of people, that’s what I’ve heard. Where did you go to church?



	SI:	I didn’t go to church really. Only time we went to church was when we had a concert with the gospel choir. Other than that I didn’t go.

	ST:	‘Cause you lived on campus you probably stayed. SI:	I didn’t have a car. I just stayed on campus.

	ST:	So you didn’t know about Mom’s Kitchen?



SI:  I did know about Mom’s Kitchen. We had a few people that had cars. Sometimes when we could get a little extra money, want to treat ourselves, we’d go to Mom’s and get a meal.

ST:  That was big-timing it, high flying.



	SI:	We had a few spots we knew about. We’d go venture into the city, off campus. ST:	Did you ever go to Red Two-Spot?

	SI:	I never went to Red Two-Spot, it was a scary looking place. [Laughter] ST:	Did you watch TV?





		SI:		Not too much. I had a little TV. Do you remember that little TV I had? ST:	Yeah. I remember that little flip-top TV.

	SI:	It was like one of the first invented easy convenient TVs. I didn’t have time. ST:	Did you remember Mork & Mindy? Every decade has its TV shows.

	SI:	One of the things I used to watch was General Hospital. That was big then. We had our little soaps. At night usually, I didn’t watch TV because we did have a study schedule. We would go to the library to study because it’s hard to study when you live in the dorms, so you had to get out of there.

	ST:	Like I said, we had to get an education, didn’t we? Today how was it that you decided to come back here? I know we did this together but I’m just asking you.

	SI:	I wanted to see some people that I hadn’t seen in a long time. Because we come to football games a few times out of the year, but you don’t really get to see friends that you knew, people that you dealt with back then, so I wanted to do that.

	ST:	Looking at the campus today compared to 1981, how do you sum it up?



	SI:	It’s huge. I remember when I was here I walked the campus. I walked everywhere or rode my bicycle. Now it’s like I’m here and you basically get lost. You need a car.

	ST:	You need a GPS.



	SI:	Like you said, it’s impressive. It’s growing and it’s still here. I like that. ST:	Well I’m glad we came, aren’t you?

	SI:	I’m glad. It was nice. It’s good. ST:	Well I have no more questions.





	SI:	It’s great to be a Florida Gator.



	ST:	It’s great to be a Florida Gator. Let’s go to the game. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Andre Everette Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019