AAHP 724; Whitfield; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 724 Vi Whitfield 8-12-2019 Interviewed by Charles Swanson on August 12, 2019

50 minutes | 19 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Ms. Vi Whitfield discusses her experiences with racial inequality, discrimination, and violence as well as how such themes have been prevalent for many generations. Whitfield recounts her life as a young woman in Newberry, Florida and explains how she and others organized to fight for civil rights and social justice. As an activist, Whitfield asserts the importance of sharing the truth, even when it’s as painful as the killing of six African American individuals, known as the Newberry six lynching. Ms. Whitfield delves into the issues of racism and violence that the country has faced throughout history and relates it to her hopes for truth and justice.





Keywords: [Newberry, racism, violence, lynching, history]



AAHP 724

Interviewee: Vi Whitfield Interviewer: Charles Swanson Date: August 12, 2019



S:  Hi! This is Charles Swanson with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. It’s August 12, 2019 and I’m on the phone here with Ms. Vi Whitfield. Thank you for joining me today!

W:   Oh, thank you, you’re quite welcome!



	S:	So, Ms. Whitfield, may you tell me how old you are? W:	Seventy-one.

	S:	And when were you born? W:	March 4, 1948.

	S:	Were you born in Newberry? W:	Newberry.

	S:	And did you grow up in Newberry as well? W:	Yes.

S:  So, can you tell me a little bit about what your parents did when you were younger?

W:  Well, my parents—my mom was a, somewhat domestic and she did work some for…I would say the assistant—what do you call it—I guess I would say she did some household work, but she was mostly, you know, somewhat domestic.

S:   Uh-huh, and—



W:   And my dad was a butcher.



S:  Yeah, okay. He was a butcher in Newberry? W:  Archer.

S:   Archer. Where did you go to school?





	W:	Newberry Elementary, first through the eighth grade, and I moved on to— Alachua, we was transported to A. L. Mebane and Alachua High School, ninth through twelfth grade. I graduated there.

	S:	Uh-huh, and did you go to college?



	W:	Yes, I have. Santa Fe, two years there, and I have—I went to, also, I moved to New York in the, I think, [19]70s and I went to school through the Manpower Program and I received my certificate of completion for secretaria and they guaranteed me a job and—it was a program where they, once you completed the program business class successfully, they also have jobs waiting for you. So, I was hired by the City of Recreation; secretary.

	S:	How long did you do that for?



	W:	Oh, I guess I would say something like about five years there, as—I stayed in New York about seven. My mom, she had leukemia, so I came back on this end, I came back home.

	S:	So, in our email together, you mentioned something that you wanted to talk about, growing up in Newberry and the segregation and also the integration—

	W:	Growing up in Newberry, the segregation—I really didn’t get a part of it, was not involved with it, but because I moved to New York and New York was integrated when I moved there, but when I came back home, I thought that it was somewhat changed. You didn’t have to feel uncomfortable of being discriminated—there’s still a lot of discrimination. I worked at the University of Florida and I had a hard time because I was discriminated. And I had lived those years in New York and





not having to worry about going to work and feeling uncomfortable, but when I came back to Florida? Oh my goodness, it was bad.

	S:	Can you sort of describe—



	W:	Well, I worked at the University of Florida in the Department of Agronomy and I was asked to make coffee for one of the professors there, and he had an attitude, he was very nasty, and told me that when I came in, that I would make coffee for him every morning. I told him that was not in my job description. So then there was, you know, it was a situation where there was one other young lady and she didn’t know, she was not supported, she did not want to train me with the work that I was doing, and I ended up getting an exploit transfer into another department, not knowing that it was still the same department. So, it was just not a happy time, having experienced discrimination.

	S:	And what years were you working at UF?



	W:	Let me see, I think it was around [19]70—I think I moved back here at [19]76, so it was somewhere like [19]77 or [19]78, around in that time that I worked for UF.

	S:	And then also community work. Can you tell me a bit about the sort of work that you did in your community?

	W:	I organized and directed, for twenty-seven years, a festival. We started out with the name New Improvements Organization. Actually, a cousin, Judy [inaudible 7:40] she passed in March, and we worked the community, we would advocate for the citizens, go to city hall and, \ fight for the people such as having strikes and things like we needed light, the light bill was too high, and we just did a lot of things as a spokesman, an advocate for the community wherever the need came





up, we took it from the citizens and we worked it, worked out a way to—we would always be involved at city commission meetings to get things done and to know what was going on. So, yeah, it’s been a large part of my history, of my life as standing for the community and for the peoples in the community, helping peoples to assist them with voting, getting the paperwork, and getting them prepared to register to vote.

	S:	And you would say that had a big meaning, a big impact on your life?



	W:	Very much an impact on my life, because I love people and I felt that it was an appointment that a God had given me, because I stayed with it for a great time of my life and then we—going back to the festival—put together packages that consist of vendors, they would come out selling senior citizens little ice-creams or what have you, we had people selling chicken, hamburgers, and it was a back-up to help them with their income, to pay their bills. So I was real happy about that, and also, put a little children there was a program that everybody could have a part of something to do and could get help. And different ways to cheer them, we would do fashion shows and give them gifts, and we also would do voters’ registration drives during that time, we had softball tournaments with trophies, and—how I were able to get the festival to a point where it was bringing in over five hundred peoples after so many years, we established it by Saturday to Sunday, the churches would come in and sell, also we’d have the commissioners and the mayor to come in and speak on support the event, they did that, and the church would also sing, we had all types of music, and that would go on all during the day, all during the weekend.





	S:	That sounds fantastic!



	W:	Oh, and we had the clowns would come, the artists would make the children’s faces, and they would just be so happy. I brought in dancers, singers, we had people doing disco [laughter] it was just, it would be so much that—it would be so much to really enjoy that it brought people, not only in this county but out of this county. We had photographers coming from Jacksonville, people selling, vendors selling t-shirts, crabs, chicken, fried chicken, fish fries—you name it, we had it, it was there. And how I really, it really was able to—what really made it great for people to come in—I would start calling vendors and participants six months ahead so they would give me their confirmation and would be ready, you know, to come. We had American Africans come in and as it got, I guess, makes ten years before, I could no longer move forward with it—I want to say that we changed the name to Newberry Black Cultural Arts Festival because we had artists to come from Tampa and they would bring their artwork to sell, it would be so beautiful. Not only Tampa, but throughout Alachua County. We even had—it grew that we brought folks in from Miami and New York.

	S:	Wow! So, I know you mentioned the helping people register for voting. Can you tell me about that whole process and getting those people and, you know, spreading through the community?

	W:	We will go door to door and ask them to register, to vote, and we did it yearly. S:	Uh-huh. I also know that you’ve set up other things like the Martin Luther King’s

Day Parade?





	W:	We set up activities. Every year, we would have the parade for the community— we would have so many to walk from the park and to the neighborhood. We designated our street so we could keep Martin Luther King’s name, and what he stood for and who he was, that opened the doors that we were [inaudible 16:09] rights to jobs and being able to go into the restaurant, to be a priest without, you know, having to feel uncomfortable or that you may go into some places where they didn't want you there and you turn around, you get the feeling that you're not welcome, so you leave. And I experienced when I also was younger that the fountain that was at the City Hall Municipal Building, we were not allowed to drink from it. We were not allowed to go into the bathrooms when I was going to school. In the elementary school, it was White and Black on the doors. We made up, we put together our softball games during the summer, that was one of the activities, something that the community and the youth could do together and have a good time. Also, there was a—I’ll never forget this, it really will always stay with a lot of us—there was a theater that was established and when we started going to this theater, they shut it down ‘cause they didn’t want us there.

	S:	And what is, what exactly is that?



	W:	It was a theater, they had a theater, like movies— S:	Oh, sorry. Yeah.

	W:	We could go to the movies. S:	Wow.

	W:	So, that’s gonna be able to go to the movies and they let us know real quickly, right away that we was not welcome. So what they did, they closed it. I came up





in a lot of racism in Newberry during that time. They showed—we had a hard time when we would go to the post office, they—some were real mean when we got ready to go and get your mail or [inaudible 19:21] or whatever. So, with most of the businesses—you had a few. Those that they had to let you come to buy groceries, you know, they would somewhat be a little reasonable because they needed our money. But a lot of the businesses, we were not allowed.

	S:	Can you tell me more about the businesses in Newberry, or—



	W:	Well, let’s see… over the years, the businesses we feel that we should— like now, have, nice hotels, the different events—there is not a hotel in Newberry, and we feel that we need a hotel; a nice hotel in Newberry. Because when they started up, they was gonna do the Nations Park, and that was, it became an issue—it did not happen because they didn’t have a hotel for people that was coming out of town to stay. So, that was—so many million dollars was put into that, Nations Park here up in Newberry, and now there’s—it’s not even, I don’t think they’re really using it. If it is, it’s just for the young people. So, that was money that went down the drain for that. The county had contributed, the state, I understand Tallahassee, they had contributed, plus the city, they had a grant for the park to be—there was a man in New York that was going to bring in thirty or forty or more softball teams doing like a tournament, but they backed off because they didn’t provide any shade, as well as they didn’t have any place to stay. They would have to go to Gainesville every day and then come back into Newberry for their tournament, to play ball.





	S:	And I know you’re leaving Newberry soon, but are you still a part of working in the community now? Or, up until recently?

	W:	Yeah, I will always be active because that’s where my heart is. So, I go to city hall when I can and where I can keep up with what’s going on, if there’s something that I feel like I need to voice my opinion, I do that as well.

	S:	I know you wanted to talk about the Black Newberry Elementary, and I would love to hear more about that.

	W:	Well, Newberry Elementary… I’m trying to think what happened with that. We was told that there was something like taxes, I don’t know the reason, why they decided to shut it—how that it got away from the community. But what happened was that we know that it closed, and I think they closed it and then it was—what, I guess, a year or whatever—that it was not our property. And next thing we know, we found out that they were getting ready to bring it down. They hired someone to do the work, to take the building down, and they gave them the lumber for tearing it down. And we felt that we should have been a part of that, that we should have known, because there could have been something that we would have wanted to do to try and save the building. And, before it was known what really was going on, it was already gone. And we saw them went out and they were hauling the way to a resident that lived here, he and his wife. So they, they built their home, they established a home that was there, one block off twenty-sixth, right near city hall. So every time we passed through there, it was a street that would take you to that Newberry High School—we passed that, and it’s just a reminder that those boards, that lumber, was built, it came for that





house, it came from the school that we attended, for eight years. And the person who built the house and lived there, he passed not long after he got the building.

	S:	And so, was there a large community voice against using the lumber?



	W:	Yeah, yes. My understanding, I guess we were not aware. We were maybe a little bit too young when they did this, but they had a meeting with my uncle and the community of the residents who voiced their opinion. And next thing we know, that it was somewhat given to the city of Newberry. But they didn’t give the Blacks an opportunity to, you know, to keep it. But it was the Blacks, it was like our, the Blacks’ great granddads at that time that cut the pine trees down, cleaned off that property, and built a school.

	S:	So it meant a lot to everyone? W:	Right.

	S:	I know you have a lot of news clippings, and—can you just tell me a little bit of the sort of news clippings that you’ve kept over the years?

	W:	Well, the news clippings, pictures of all of the activities that I were able to organize for different vendors, different participants musicians, artists, photographers, people who had their own businesses, they might’ve been selling clothing, and caps, and the food, the vendors that would be selling the chicken, the ribs, the crabs, the fish, and et cetera, and on and on. So, that’s what the news clippings, that I used to bring here Gainesville, Alachua.

	S:	That’s fantastic. Is there anything else that you would love to, or like to talk about?





	W:	Yeah. I would like to see Newberry come together and create some jobs. You know, for the students and adults here.

	S:	Okay, yeah. And how do you think they should go about creating these jobs? W:	Well, I think they should add some more businesses. We were told once that they were bringing a, tearing down…McDonalds—we was hoping for a

McDonalds, hoping for a Walmart. And we’d give that, they would create jobs, make it better.

	S:	Uh-huh.



	W:	It’s just so much I just can’t…probably just ‘cause I been out there in the field, working and trying to make things happen that would be better for the Black community. Oh, I wanted to tell you this too, came on my mind this morning, now it would be a good time to take pictures of the old Lynch Hammock, where they did the lynching of the six blacks, now they are clearing up that property.

	S:	Where is that?



	W:	It’s called, the street now is Newberry Lane. S:	Newberry Lane?

	W:	Yes. And it is—Newberry Lane and NW Fifth Avenue, it’s the back of Hitchcock’s, the businesses, and that dollar store. That street will bring you right to that property on NW Fifth Avenue and Newberry Lane—this would be on the front where the Freddie Warmack park is next to it. And it runs all the way to the back of Hitchcock’s and NW Fifth Avenue. All of that, that was the property where the lynching was done of the six.

	S:	Really?





	W:	And I think you will be, you would—this will really help your report, your research, to get these recent pictures, now that they are clearing that property.

	S:	Yeah.



	W:	To add to that, you just need to come to Newberry and do it, take pictures. Take the pictures on NW Fifth Avenue, you want to take it from the back of that Street and then you go over in Newberry lane. If you put in Booker T. Hunt Funeral Home, is right also in front of the Booker T. Hunt funeral home. That runs up to Freddy Warmack Park, which is owned by the city. But six months ago, maybe a year ago now—I think, about a year—there was a community meeting at the Martin Luther King Park. And the commission came out, and the mayor, and they discussed about the, there was a discussion regarding the Newberry— the six of the lynching, that they felt that the community should speak up about it, there was a lot of things that maybe some know that they never discussed.

	S:	So, are they clearing that entire property?



	W:	Oh, yes. So now, we think that there may be some other things— bones or something—maybe could be on that property that we don't know about. Because it was all forest and trees, pine trees, and you can't see up in there but now they are clearing it all off. And they—I did, and two other concern residents, citizens— we spoke with the mayor two, maybe three weeks ago, and he said the owners was always, the original owners was BOYD and they are putting some type of building there, but he wasn't quite sure. He said I could always, we could always check with the city code to somewhat find out what they are planning to do with the property. Yep. So, we somewhat think that, you know, it could be a lot—they





may feel threatened there's a lot of exposure since it went into the news media. It's a write up on it which I'm pretty sure you're aware of. If not, if you go back to Gainesville, you want to find details, just research Gainesville Sun newspaper and it’ll give you the details on how the people felt and the exposure they brought and they’re asking for more exposure.

	S:	Well, Ms. Whitfield, I must say, thank you so much for giving me your time and talking to me today.

	W:	Oh, you’re so quite welcome.



	S:	And I hope that you're doing well with all the packing. W:	Yes, I am, just a little tired.

	S:	Oh, of course, I bet.



	W:	We had a meeting group, greet cookout here this Saturday, and the cookout went very good, very good.

	S:	Well, thank you, and I hope you—



	W:	Didn’t mention of the Newberry six. Now, they did put one out in Jonesville, at the church. But they were actually, you know, the majority of the six—I think it was five that was killed at [inaudible 37:08] and they just took them and buried them that belonged to family. They put that out to their church, a monument, but they gave some history and the names—I think they have the names—but I, we feel that something should be there, that they should give something back to the community since it happened there.

	S:	Yeah, I agree.





	W:	But the boards are the ones that sold it, we don't know who they sold it to. But they just about got it cleared, they did. Yeah. But they’re gonna put a building there apartments or something.

	S:	You’re right, that shouldn’t be a building, should be a monument.



	W:	That’s what it should be. But the property owners, they want, they have sold it.



And I think sometimes people have to sell things to try to get rid of more evidence about the Newberry lynching in the news, but the news media haven’t, it may be related to some of their family members or owners. The owners—I feel like somebody is involved because only the owners and a group of whoever, their friends, that's going to—and they could be, you know, old people keeping it maybe five generations back, but still, you know, they must keep their mouth shut because they don't want to put family members out. But that's some real interesting piece.

	S:	Yeah, that really is.



	W:	Yes. And I think if you take the—you make sure you get those pictures. S:	Yeah, of course.

	W:	And now, this school—listen to this—if you get the pictures of the Newberry elementary school, it was next door to that property as well.

	S:	Really?



	W:	Yes.



	S:	Wow.



	W:	Now, if you can ask the city to let you, let them know that you're doing a research and you would like for the maintenance person or whoever to open up that





building, and go in that, there, it’s a center also—go into this center because there used to be the daycare center to the school, they eventually ended up putting a daycare—not a daycare, I mean our lunchroom, cafeteria—and so that building is still there, it has been, it went to daycare, the next program was done and it was daycares, they stayed careful all the years. Now it’s a center to rent when you want to do birthday parties or what have you, but if you go into the building, there's pictures of the original building that I'm telling you, the house and has some students, and I think—I was told that my brother was on one of those pictures and

	S:	Oh, really?



	W:	Yeah, you need to go in and get pictures there, on the wall they have kids from outside and that big building, it was like a two-story building, which our school, that was our school. Lot of windows and had a bathroom in the back—which those same original bathrooms are still there on the property now, at that part—

	S:	Really?



	W:	Yes, and I had to go to city hall to ask them to upgrade the doors and put, close the stalls and put doors in the middle, you know, to try and make it much nicer even during the time I was having the festival I had to fight for that to be done until I finally got some things I've done. Now, my other concern is an idea that they should— we had a concession stand out there at Freddy Warmack Park, right by the softball fence, and they just—what did they do, I think they just— trying to think if it’s still there, but I felt, I feel like they should keep that





concession stand out there so people who rent or whatever, they want to have a function, make us still use that to sell.

	S:	Yeah, of course.



	W:	Uh-huh, and I just have not had the time to go and really deal with them about it, on a one-on-one at city hall. But I feel that it should stand, should be replenished, redone, put a new one there, make it nice—and bigger, cause it had a barbecue pit with it. So that was, that’s something that I feel like is at stake. But if you get inside that—and it would be easy, I'm pretty sure they would let you go in—go inside, the Freddy Warmack Park and that center. Those pictures of the school, there’s three or four of them, they’re on both sides—they’re on the stage cause the cafeteria we had, it has like a stage—when we were in school, we—holidays, we would sing all of the songs for different programs. So that's why the stage is there. Now it has, they do have an old piano up there, but that picture—you got pictures of, evidence of the history of the, where that school was on that property, right there.

	S:	I’ll absolutely get out and take those pictures.



	W:	Uh-huh. You will have three or four pictures on the wall that you can use. They’re nice pictures, too.

	S:	Yeah.



	W:	So, we did keep the history of the school and the children on it, in the, on the grounds. There’s some of the Black students on the grounds who were walking around. And then there was all Black teachers, you know, it was a Black school, the—segregated at that time, during those years.





	S:	Uh-huh.



	W:	So, it’s a lot of history to it today.



	S:	There is. Well, yeah, thank you so much again.



	W:	Oh, you’re welcome. You’re quite welcome. And you might be able to do some research with the county—not the county, maybe the tax office to see how it was transferred and to get more information on why the school was, might as well say, demolished. You know, the lumber and they just gave it away. They gave it away, they didn’t even offer us it—what if somebody needed some of the lumber or maybe—

	S:	Uh-huh, yeah.



	W:	You know, it’s—they just quickly got rid of it. S:	Wow.

	W:	But I feel that, you know, five generations back, they worked real hard to cut all of those big trees down and cleaned it off that property so they could put a school there, and now they didn’t think enough of the Black community to say, “Hey, what can we do to you all save it?”

S:   Uh-huh.



W:  Taxes, cause if they’d have bought it never made it [inaudible 45:54] people could have grouped together and paid the taxes and just kept the taxes going, until they decided what they wanted to really do with it.

S:   You’re right, yeah.



	W:	But I really—that’s my concern, I really want to see Lynch Hammock get this final ending. Oh, you got to watch it, cause now they cleared off the property and





it—lot of people’s trying to write books or whatever, and I know that University of Florida, that’s one of the reasons that you’re working your way into getting information, but it, you’ve got something that needs to be tied into the—

	S:	Yeah.



	W:	History. Now, let me ask you this here. Now, where can—once this history, give me the name, would it be a—I know it will be exposed a lot later with the University of Florida?

	S:	So, this interview?



	W:	Yeah. No, I’m talking about—yeah, the interview, all of the history, you said that the name of it is like—

	S:	Oh, so the name of it is the Samuel— W:	Samuel, what is it now?

	S:	Samuel—



	W:	Is it—spell it.



	S:	S-A-M-U-E-L—



	W:	Uh-huh.



	S:	Proctor, P-R-O—



	W:	C-T-E-R?



	S:	Uh, C-T-O-R.



	W:	T-O-R, okay.



	S:	Oral, O-R-A-L—



	W:	I got it.



	S:	History—yeah—program.





	W:	History program. Okay, so—okay, so now, give me some details again because I—so, they’re going to get the use, how they plan to use this information as history?

	S:	So, my instructor is Ryan, R-Y-A-N—



	W:	I have his name, what’s the last name? Spell me his last name. S:	M-O-R-I-N-I.

	W:	Okay, and he’s out of—where did he tell me, the—where is he located? S:	Uh, he works here on campus at the University of Florida.

	W:	And what is his title? S:	His, uh, sorry?

	W:	What is his—is he a professor, or he’s in history, or— S:	Our, uh, I think he’s a—he’s a professor.

	W:	Is he in the history?



	S:	Uh-huh. Well, thank you again, this has really been some great information and I really appreciate all the, all the times that I’ve called you. [Laughter]

	W:	Yes, yes.



	S:	And I hope that everything goes well once you move to Chicago.



	W:	Thank you, yes, it will. Thank you, I’ll be in and out, you know, so that’s gonna



make a good—we’ll both have a home.



	S:	Yeah.



	W:	And for summer and winder we’ll vacay here when it’s cold, and go back summer, and I’ll get a great experience, you know, of a different state.

	S:	Uh-huh, yeah.





	W:	And we plan to do a lot of travel, I love to travel, so—you just, in the world lets you can enjoy all of God’s grace and what he has given us here, and just live and be happy.

	S:	Absolutely. That’s great.



	W:	Yeah, that’s the only way to go. Well, I’ve really appreciated, I got—you know, I’m glad I came up with the idea that hey, let’s do it over the phone.

	S:	Yeah.



	W:	It’s just so tight with me trying to, you know, do valuable time. S:	Yeah, I understand.

	W:	Yeah, here, and I was just finishing eating and planning on sitting, taking a break for a while because I’m just so tired and gotta try to stay at the rested, you know, before we start traveling on Thursday.

	S:	I bet.



	W:	Yeah, but this was supposed to go Tuesday, but we were too tired, we said we got to give ourselves a couple more days to do it.

	S:	Uh-huh, of course. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Jessica Alvarez, January 20, 2021



	Audit-Edited by:	Kasamba Kokayi, Sandra Romero, June 8, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, , June 8, 2021