AAHP 280A; Rogers; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 280A Jefferson Rogers African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Paul Ortiz on August 14, 2012 1 hour, 44 minutes | 27 pages



Abstract: Rev. Jefferson Rogers is being interviewed by Paul Ortiz on 14 August 2012. Rev. Rogers grew up in Quincy, Florida and his grandmother was the first black school teacher in that town. He talks about how he frequently thinks about how close he was to being born into slavery. Rev. Rogers describes seeing chain gangs working in the middle of the city. He then describes his family history and how the first black doctor in Quincy, Dr. Stevens, helped in the cesarean birthing process of Rogers himself. Rev.

Rogers comments on the “togetherness” of blacks and Native Americans in Quincy. Rev. Roger’s grandmother was a prominent black woman in Gainesville who owned multiple properties and had a notably good relationship with whites in the area. Rev. Jones discusses the tense relationship between whites and blacks in Quincy and relates it to one of Sterling Brown’s poems. Rogers talks of the Coca-Cola company’s success in Quincy, spirituality, how he was able to attend Howard University, his time at Talladega College, how he met and courted his wife, and his route becoming a religious leader.













































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 280A

Interviewee: Jefferson Rogers Interviewer: Paul Ortiz

Date: August 14, 2012



	R:	Jefferson P. Rogers



	O:	Reverend Rogers first of all I want to start by thanking you for taking time out of your very busy schedule to do the interview with me today. I really appreciate it. It’s August 14th, 2012 and we’re with Reverend Jefferson Paramore Rogers and Reverend Rogers I wonder if we could start, if you wouldn’t mind telling me about your early life. I understand you were from a very interesting town called Quincy, Florida.

	R:	Yes it’s been a long time. I was born there in 1917 so it’s been five years plus ninety. So I’ve been around a long time.

	O:	Can you tell me, Reverend Rogers, something about your parents. I understand that your parents were very distinguished people in their own right.

	R:	Well I guess you might say, my son and I were talking about some of the years and the fact that I was surprised at how close I came to be being born in the slavery time. I was born in 1917. What was the year, 18—? I forget the year.

	U1:	They say 1863 or 1865 either one.



	R:	Well it’s very interesting when you think about history from given kinds of angles.



I’m thinking about the fact that relatively recently we’ve inherited a Black president and one measures the way one thinks and the way one feels I guess differently when he begins to realize how close or how far he is from events that are great meaning in life. My family lies in a country like ours [inaudible 2:38].

And one of the things that gradually dawned on me against the background of what I said just a moment ago. As one measures the unfolding of one’s life it’s







overwhelmingly interesting to take measure of your unfolding in the sense of focusing on how your own life was structured against the ground of what you’ve come out of. I don’t know whether you remember some of the things we’ve talked about when we talked last when you were here. A stunning kind of event that would run through my mind and I compare the Quincy that I grew up in against the background of how it unfolded as I became aware of growing up and what it was a few years before that. I said course of our conversation that the Quincy that identifies me was so radically different from what it was sixty years before I was born. Being a quiet student of history, it struck me as mildly—a little bit more than mildly—fantastic that I grew up in a place where slavery ended a little less than seventy years before I was born. It may not strike you this way because you’re not me. [Laughter]

	O:	[Laughter] Right.



	R:	But I grew up, I think maybe close to the first Black school teacher, of course you know a little bit about this, was my grandmother and I had no more of an idea of how one would feel as a slave than you would know how you would feel if you were the president of China. Especially since either the first or the second Black school teacher in Quincy, Florida was my grandmother and the unfolding of a period of life during that moment was such that, it was almost for me like viewing something that could not be at all. Especially since I lived—How much do you remember about Quincy?

	O:	[Laughter]







	R:	The big building in Quincy right in the middle of Quincy was three blocks from my house and less than two blocks from my house was what we called in those days “the chain gang.” And if there’s anything that I remember more vividly than almost anything else—you may not have discovered this in your work there—but every day at a given time I could see the members of the chain gang who lived less than two blocks from my house, going out to do the work and the—I don’t know if you’ve ever seen a city chain gang but they wore uniforms that had stripes and I suppose that’s one of the most interesting sights that I can recall, I could hear. They lived in a given building you see and they would leave about seven o’clock in the morning and they would come back around six o’clock in the evening with those, those chain gangs, with those things on and I could see them from where I lived. That kind of scene would stick in your mind something— maybe I ought not to say but its history—well its history. Whether you should print it or not, I don’t know. [Laughter] It’s the kind of history that sometimes is not routinely told.

	O:	Reverend Rogers you mentioned that your grandmother being the first, grandmother being the first schoolteacher in Quincy. Did she talk about how difficult it was for her, like in terms of race relations, what she had went through?

	R:		Well I guess she did, but it was just routine [coughs] these are things when you ask questions like that its similar to what I didn’t tell you a just moment ago. It’s something that, that ought not to be told because it is history. The father—I’ll come back to your question.

	O:	Okay.







	R:	The father of the woman that we’ve been talking about in such … terms, in terms of her own history, her father was on the chain gang. Now, I’m saying, normally you wouldn’t say that. It ought not to be said because that’s historic background. You see?

	O:	Um-hm. Yes, sir.



	R:	And it’s the significance in my judgment, even against the question that you asked about my grandmother, that these kinds of data can easily be called valid historical data. I don’t know that anybody would mention to you what I just said a few moments ago because the woman we’re talking about is a hero there. But it would not be unusual for that to be true of anybody who came through Quincy.

You see?



	O:	Yes, sir.



R:  And of course her sister…was a famous writer who was a name, a valid name in history. But you were asking me a question about my grandmother. How did you phrase it?

	O:	Well I was asking you what kind of difficulties did she face being a Black schoolteacher in terms of race relations because I know that the White power structure did not like Black educators often.

	R:	Well, I guess the only way to say it is what is true. She suffered the same kind of life that was true for any town of that kind at the stage of history that she lived in. My own background, in that regard, is almost the same as the young woman we are talking about. My grandmother was married to a Black man whose father was a slave owner. I’ve always been talkative and I talked to them all the time about







and I said, Papa—that’s what we’d call him. I said your father was a slave owner. He said, yeah. I said, how many slaves did he have papa? [Laughter] You know what he said? One. The character of my grandfather’s relationship to the woman with whom he lived, she was his slave. I said Papa, I said, how many slaves did you have? One. He had eight children. My grandfather had eight children by one slave. The character of that, going more intimately into it, was the simple fact that it was not simply true of my grandfather. In any number of instances you couldn’t be man and wife, a slave and a slave concubine. So, in a matter of fact, my grandfather had one slave who, if you just twist history a little bit, would have been his wife. They had eight children in all. Seven who lived later on in Chicago and I only knew one. She would come from Chicago to Quincy to be with the family. But she didn’t stay with us, she stayed with somebody else and that one that I knew was Aunt Julia. So that was the basic ground that I knew about in my own grand family at that point. My grandfather was a—this is interesting kind of history—he was a carpenter and his father saw to it that he was taught to be a carpenter. That kind of thing is regular anyway because there were White slave owners who were in the kind of intimacy similar to my grandfather. They took care of the slaves. And so in the background of the variety of things that you would find in this period—You would find fathers like my great-grandfather who would take care of their children and send them to school. So in that kind of fact, that is the ground out of which I come. Papa became a relatively skilled carpenter. Of course, my grandmother they were not slaves. They were born just ten seconds before. [Laughter] They might have been slaves. So in that sense







you could say that there was some form of privilege in their growing up. Neither of them were slaves, they were the children of people who had been qualified as slaves. And so that provided for Papa a good ground on which to live in terms of material things. And so, he was taught by whoever would be teaching you to be artisans and of course my grandmother had the privilege of being able to go to school and become quasi-learned enough to become one of the first Black schoolteachers in Quincy, Florida. Of course, later on one of the things that happened during her lifetime I don’t know whether she was the first schoolteacher—Black schoolteacher—but she was either one or two and she taught all her life and she was contemporaneous with a name you heard, Dr.

Stevens.



	O:	Dr. Stevens.



	R:	Dr. Stevens was the doctor when I was born and I was a cesarean baby. You of course know about this, I guess you used some of that in your book. To be a cesarean baby in 1917, that’s a long time back. I’ve got some pictures over here someplace actually. He not only was he the first doctor—first Black doctor in Quincy, Florida in 1917. And this is stunning to me, you will be aware from your book, that the Black drugstore was Dr. Stevens’ drugstore. But what’s so neat was that the—what do you call the guy that makes medicine?

	O:	The pharmacist, pharmacist.



	R:	Well, no. That’s not the name they use for it. [Unknown person: Pharmacist.]

	R:	The guy who makes the medicine, what do you call him?







[Unknown person: Like Arlene!] [Phone ringing]

	R:	Huh?



[Unknown person: Like Arlene! What Arlene does.]



	R:	When you go to the drugstore, who makes the medicine? In the drugstore? O:	Well the pharmacist prescribes—

	R:	Pharmacist. Yeah. Okay. O:	Okay.

	R:	Now, Dr. Stevens he was a Black man with a drugstore, but he was also a pharmacist. And then of course the skills were not obviously as advanced as they are in later years, but the drugstore—I mean the hospital that Dr. Stevens had, wasn’t a great hospital but it was a hospital. And taking a baby from her side, that was unusual. And so my grandmother would always tell me that I owed my life to Dr. Stevens and of course you talked to his daughter, Arnette.

	O:	Yes, sir.



	R:	Yeah, so that was, I think you could call that, even from where I sit a kind of special setting as early as 1917. So that’s a mini-story behind the question that you are asking. Because it did provide a setting that was the foundation, not only for my grandparents, my parents but it was true—again I go back to your book.

Of any number of things that were true of Quincy, the togetherness of Blacks and Indians were an important aspect of that kind of scene. Indians and African Americans followed in swipes in that area and it is much as it is true that there was some kind of leverage unusually so, for my own family, it was true in some







measure for that whole area. Alongside the fact that there were almost—I don’t know how close it was but there was about as many Blacks in Quincy as there were White people in Quincy. And of course during that moment, a general moment, there were battles between American Whites and American Blacks and Indians which made for two things—it made for distance and it made for togetherness. It could probably be said that during that general moment it could be easily said that there were time spans when African Americans they weren’t equal to Whites but they were almost that way. Blacks owned what we called the Ice House, there was a pharmacy, the only electric plant. There were copacetic with the Indians, there were battles between the Indians and African Americans and White people. So it could be easily said that in an elongated answer to your question, there was a kind of unusual leverage for Blacks in that area, though I guess they didn’t have the kind of family life that my grandfather had. But there was the kind of moment in Quincy, the result of which of you can see now. I can remember the time when there were only a handful of Blacks who would vote.

There was a time when you’d have to ease Black papers into Quincy. I wish I had one of my papers here now. The main paper in Gadsden County was a Black paper, mayor’s Black. A good more than half of the big whigs in Quincy are Black people. So in answering the question you were asking about my family, a good deal of what was true of the leverage that they were fortunate enough to be placed to take advantage of is a thousand times more than that. The mayor’s Black, almost all of the big whigs are Black. There is only one paper in Quincy







now and that’s—I don’t know, White man owns it or not—[Laughter] because that slips in too.

	O:	Yeah, back in the old days it was The Democrat, was the paper. Is that still the paper now, or is that—?

	R:	Oh, I don’t—I know more of the writers from the paper are Black. O:	Yeah.

	R:	But it’s the kind of growth thing because the Quincy paper is a Black paper and the leverage of togetherness could easily be called, what you might call normal. And so the story of the prominence that you speak of in the Paramore and Rogers family is true in a measure of the character of the community these days.

	O:	Rev. Rogers, I think one time—now I could be mistaken about this—but one time when we spoke on the phone, you told me that your grandmother’s—there was something happening and her house was burned down?

	R:	Oh, yeah. Well, what the Black community would call White folk in terms of the battle, that was normal for Quincy. My grandmother, not because of I wouldn’t say but suddenly it was part of it—I think it would be honest to say that the character of their individual background did provide them with an unusual start. And it’s simply honest to say that my grandmother was a dominant type woman, overwhelmingly industrious. And she was the kind of person that if there was one chicken and there were ten people after it, she would get what’s hers, her part of it. And she owned places and she owned about, I guess at least seven pieces of property in Quincy and put three or four houses on it. My grandfather was the one skilled Black carpenter there so that it is simply true that they had a head-







start. And a part of that kind of propriety ended up with again my grandmother owning property and her house was on a hill less than two blocks from the center of the town and during those early days they used to, I guess they still do it, used to advertising billboards, it was work like cutting logs and putting the billboards up. And part of the industry that was part and parcel of my grandmother, in addition to her owning land, she got a choice spot despite the fact that it was just two blocks from the chain gang. She built a two-story, almost three-story house; he top floors which had about seven rooms. And she would rent that out to people who would cut the logs and build the billboards. It was an ideal spot. And in addition to the fact that she taught school, this all industrious thing that identified her as much as anything else in the buying of land, she wasn’t rich but she was well put. And White folk wanted that land and that two-story house and they burned it down, because they wanted her land. But something about the total psychology of this city had this special kind of person my grandmother was, she built another house. She didn’t build another house like that because she didn’t—she had about easily seven people who would rent the rooms in the house that was there. Because we had that big house and then another one right next to it where the family they lived. So the first burning was that house. They were going to scare her away, but she built another house, where I was born.

And that’s the fundamental story. But the interesting thing, [Laughter] thing about fate, even after I went to college, my cousins were living there and my nephew saw the fire then [Laughter] but that was the essence of that story and I guess that the spiritual significance is that there was that kind of moxie which enabled







the kind of attitude that my grandmother had. She was a tough woman. To build that second house, of course then she had the careers as a schoolteacher too and so we managed to stay there. One of the oddities about this country and people was that as odd as that may sound on a given day like this one—well I guess it wouldn’t even sound that way—but despite all that happened, she was close to White people. A minor thing like—what I’m going to say now—she was able to maintain with the White community if you think in terms of upper class people, she knew all of what in those days we would call good White people. And the character of her fortitude and brazen honesty was such that she could walk into the back, because one hundred dollars wouldn’t sound like a whole lot of money to you now, but she could walk in the bank and borrow $100 or $200 on her own signature just like that. So that she became in that sense almost easily the most prominent Black woman in town. Of course I learned something from your book I did not know. The two most significant Black folk in this wise was my grandmother and Dr. Stevens. And because of what, at least seemed to me, the unusual ability for Mama to be as close as she was to White people with the power of the White community such that could enable them brazenly, just burn people’s house down, and of course I learned from your book I did not know that—well maybe it was your book. I think your book carried a story of Dr.

Stevens’ uncle being killed by a White man. I did not know that. I did not know that at all.

	O:	His daughter told me that history.







	R:	But that kind of climate—I go back to the Blacks and the Indians fighting the White folk—

	O:	Um-hm. Did people talk about that when you were when you were growing up?



	R:	Oh yeah. But there would be fights. In spite of the chain gang, society always talks about the bad nigger. James Baldwin Johnson wrote an article that included the view that every time like that needed “bad niggers”. He was using that in a sociological sense. He wrote a story on “bad niggers” and the phrase that he would use is, “Every town needs it’s bad niggers because you didn’t walk into an area of so-called bad niggers without feeling trembling.” Not James Weldon Johnson—sorry what was the writer’s name? You know his name, cause—

	O:	Oh, not Sutton Griggs, but—



	R:	One of our most famous writers. O:	Not Langston, not Chester Himes. R:	He wrote a poem—Sterling Brown. O:	Sterling Brown, yes okay.

	R:	He wrote a poem, “They Come By Tens.” He says, you don’t come by-talking about White folk going into Black community. The officers into Black community and starting Sterling Brown would start the poem; he said, “They don’t come by ones. They don’t come by twos. They come by tens.” [Laughter] And Sterling Brown also wrote an essay, the theme of which was, every town needs bad niggers because they were protection against the lynchers. You see, so when the police would go to a Black town and when an officer would go to a Black town you wouldn’t be dumb enough to be one policeman to be going into a Black town.







So that was the theme of Sterling Brown’s story. They don’t come by ones, they don’t come by two’s, but they come by tens.

	O:	By tens, right. [Laughter]



	R:	So that’s a typical kind of effort to answer the question you’re asking me.



Because the White folk would do it and the Black folk would fight. And it was out of that that both the educational unusualness and the battle so stay afloat financially. Again it’s overwhelmingly important, I don’t know if you knew this, if whether you found out the Black folk owned the election plant, they owned the owned the ice plant. All of those things which makes it easily clear that they own everything now, you see. And out of that vortex that’s a wide answer to your question.

	O:	Rev. Rogers, your grandmother that you are speaking of, her name was Hattie Paramore?

	R:	Hattie Paramore yeah.



	O:	Okay, I just wanted to make sure.



	R:	Yeah, and then of course her original name was Macon. She took my grandfather’s name; his was Paramore. And there is a White Paramore family there now.

	O:	Uh-huh. In Quincy?



	R:	Oh yeah. And that’s the basic story.



	O:	Do the two branches of the Paramore family have much contact today?



	R:	Well I don’t know I just know we weren’t close to them even though the only person that I knew by name was Aunt Julia. They moved to Chicago and the







relationship was significant enough for the occasion of—there were a couple of them but the only one I knew was Aunt Julia. And they would come to Quincy to visit Papa. And he was a funny man, a very religious man and funny at the same time. I would always smile at how easily he would get along with his siblings.

Because I didn’t care very much for Aunt Julia but I’d see her when she would come down. [Laughter]

	O:	Rev. Rogers, if it’s okay with you I wonder if we could almost kind of fast forward to when you ended up going to Howard University School of Religion because-

	R:	Oh, that’s a long story.



	O:	[Laughter] You were recruited by Dr. Benjamin Mays. I wonder if you could talk about that relationship.

	R:	Well that’s a long story but it could be said. I remember when I was at Howard University. Do you know the Coca-Cola story of our country?

	O:	The Coca-Cola story? No I don’t.



R:  There were at least seven—they weren’t Black—there were at least seven White men in Quincy who were millionaires because of the stock that they managed to get ahold of at the beginning of Coca-Cola.

	O:	Oh okay. No I didn’t know that. R:	You know the name Munroe? O:	Uh-huh. Yeah.

	R:	Pat Munroe was one of the millionaires. O:	Oh I’ll be darned.







	R:	And there were about seven families in Quincy. I don’t understand how you could do that. I don’t understand enough about business to know how stock in an outstanding industry could make you rich like that but that’s another story. If you were to go to Quincy tomorrow, you would see the same building—off course I think they’ve done it over again—with a Coca-Cola sign. I grew up watching that sign.

	O:	Wow.



	R:	But Quincy was famous for that. And again I keep making the same statement over and over again because I do think that Quincy was a little bit unusual, which has come from the fact that it is probably the most prosperous small town in the state of Florida. So that, again, I guess it could very well be said that the story that I am rightfully trying to underscore had as much to do with the general climate as it was responsible for a given kind of specialness. Well you’re a historian. How could you account for that?

	O:	Well it reminds me of something that Patricia Stevens Due told us when she spoke. When Patricia—you know her and John lived in Miami for many years. And when she told her friends in Miami that her and John were planning to move back to Quincy, the Miami people said, “Oh you can’t move back there, that’s a backwards area. That’s the panhandle.” And she said, “No”—

	R:	It’s not backwards.



	O:	Yeah. She said it’s more progressive than Miami, and she said the Miami people just couldn’t seem to understand that.







	R:	Well again and part of the answer to your last question—it was the unusual kind of spirituality of Quincy, period. I think that there were several good families there, and ours was one of the better families and that sense. How it happened I can’t rightly say, but we were in a vanguard family. My brother, or a half-brother of mine, was making radios in the early 1920s. He was unusually brilliant. He died when he was about twenty, I think. We lived half the time in Jacksonville, Florida, because in addition to owning property in Quincy, my grandmother would own property otherwhere. So I lived the first eleven years of my life—I don’t know whether I have told you this yet or not—I lived the first eleven years of my life in Jacksonville because my grandmother and I had house there. And just by, I guess, accident, Little John—his last name was Paramore—it just happened that he was unusually brilliant. So much so that he was at Stanton High School, he was the top student there. His ableness in terms of—John could do everything.

	O:	He went to Stanton High School?



	R:	Stanton High school. Yeah. He was the top student there, and in the days—and you can’t remember this because it was way back—I can remember when radios were special. And Little John was making them in high school. And he was a top athlete, and he was not what James Weldon Johnson would call a “bad nigger,” but he was a dangerous one. He had the odd combination of being almost always the student, overwhelmingly well-liked; but there was an oddity about it.

You didn’t bother Little John. One of the legendary stories in my history—I told you that we lived on that hill.

	O:	Mmhm.







	R:	You could walk down the hill. You would know it if you saw it. Mr. George knows—I will never forget—he was a White owner of the store right down the hill from where we lived. Little John wasn’t what he looks like. He was tender, almost everybody liked him. He didn’t do the wrong thing really. Mr. Knowles cursed my grandmother one day, and Little John wasn’t there. He was a quiet boy; you like him initially. If you knew him, you wouldn’t make a drastic mistake with him. My grandmother was easily—without any competition, she was the most well-liked woman in town. So when Little John came home, because he had to know, do you know what he did? We didn’t lack guns in those days, everybody went hunting with their rifles. Little John came home, quiet boy; he didn’t say anything. In about twenty minutes he got his shotgun and he sat on the steps. Soon Mr.

Knowles found out that Little John was sitting on the steps with a shotgun. Now, it’s hard to describe Little John. He would have killed you. He just sat on the steps. So do you know what Mr. Knowles did? He went to his country home and stayed two weeks; he didn’t come back there. Now here was boy who was as kind—I don’t know if you whether you call Little John a schizophrenic or not—but Mr. Knowles knew what was going to happen. So he stayed away from the store for two weeks. That much time. And Little John was an odd boy in that sense. He didn’t have to tell us what he was going to do. Everybody knew that. To be as well-liked as John was—the people loved him—but in a context like this, you were scared of Little John. He didn’t go around saying what I’m going to do. He just sat on that step. Of course, it died down. I was scared of Little John, too. Not because he’d do anything to me, but I was scared of what Little John would do.







	O:	[Laughter] Right.



	R:	You see, Quincy was a funny town. It was a really funny town, and the things that make it seem like I’m lying was all this: the White folk and the Black folk got along. There was a funny kind of ingredient. It was an odd kind of respect which goes back to the lady which you talked of just now. Her father’s name was Snow. Snow wasn’t a Little John, but he was one of those kinds of character that you respected because of the kind of family he was. And that general mix of people like that created what, in the final analysis, you would have to call progressive.

Because they get along well now.



	O:	Yeah well, it’s a kind of world that I think was confusing to sociologists of race who had a very difficult time putting people in categories, but it made more sense to a person like, say Howard Thurman.

	R:	Yeah.



	O:	Howard Thurman understood those contradictions. R:	Yes, he did.

	O:	Right?



	R:	He did in an unusual way. O:	[Laughter] Right.

	R:	I mean he was my man, of course. The world is interesting, and I grew up around people like that. The intimate environment of my life is responsible for what I tried to do. Not only Howard Thurman in my life, it was a kind of factors that defines one’s relationship to the world. Howard Thurman has been overwhelmingly important in my life, but not only Howard Thurman. One man in at once might







have been equally important, if not more important. Does the name Benjamin Mays say anything to you?

	O:	Mmhm.



	R:	Benjamin Mays, we used to have a “week of prayer” at A&M College. In 1939 and 1940, Benjamin Mays was the week of prayer speaker. I was one of the young men during those days who had been a member of a group that was a theological group. How he got my name—I guess I do know: my history teacher was a man named Dean Solhol. And about the third day, Solhol came to me and said, “Dr. Mays would like to talk to you.” He sent for me. I was not over-talkative, but I was not quiet either. Almost all the students were contracted to Dr. Mays.

But he sent for me. Dr. Mays probably was as spiritually influential a man that you would ever want to be in your whole life, and he wanted to interest me in going to seminary. And in the course of our talking, I had the occasion to tell everyone what I thought was the truth. I said—well, you know, I grew up in a church, and I probably have been more than normally attracted, but then I was more than that. I danced well, I did some of everything that a normal boy would do. And he was talking to me about my life and with incentive he was getting people to go to seminary. It was during one of my great growing moments, and I had kind of fallen out with the church because of the American problem of race. I got along well with almost everybody. And so I told him, and because of our conversation, that I had made up my mind that there were three things: religion, history, and law school. But I did not like how slow the church was moving, and I thought that my path was going to follow what I thought could best do justice to







the American problem of race relations. And then I talked against the church in a good way because of what it was not doing. Mays was persuasive. He was persuasive. Not in the pushing way; he was a man that you would just listen to. But I didn’t promise I was going. So that summer I graduated—I guess Mays asked me a thousand questions, and the more I would discourage him, the more relaxed he would get. So one of the last things he said was, “I’m going to get a scholarship for you at Howard University.” And I told him no, in effect. He was the dean of the School of Religion at Howard University, and he was coming to Morehouse that very next year. He wrote me a letter indicating that he’d come back with a scholarship. But I didn’t answer. He wrote me a second letter, and I didn’t answer that either. Then he wrote me a third letter, and I didn’t answer that either. He was a man who was the biggest man in that intellectual world; he wrote me three letters. When the last letter came, I didn’t answer that one either. The next day my grandma said, “Jeff, I got a letter from Dr. Mays.” [Laughter] I packed my bags the next day and took the bus to Atlanta. Dr. Mays had sent a cab for me. He drove me to Morehouse’s campus, and Dr. Mays put me up in the guest room. I didn’t believe any of this, that had happened. He gave me fifty dollars—my fare to Washington D.C. That’s how I got in theology school. I didn’t have any money but that fifty dollars he gave me. I got a job in a rooming house that enabled me to pay my bills. The biggest snow I ever saw in my whole life came, and I couldn’t do that, so I left and went on back to the college. During that moment ,some of the industrious boys would get a job in the government where you could work at night and you’d much more money to pay your bills. But I







realized I couldn’t do that because I couldn’t stay up all night. And so I came back home to my room and I wrote the dean a letter. I guess if somebody had come in at the time, they would have thought I was crazy because I had written a letter to Dr. Mays, I had written a letter to my grandmother, I had packed my bag, and I could get everything in the bag except my letters to Dr. Mays and my grandma. But I couldn’t get the damn bag closed. If somebody had been on the outside—[Laughter]—they’d say, “This crazy boy is in here.” The next day—I didn’t mail the letter—the next day I thought I’d give it a shot. I walked to the place called Parshae’s Restaurant on K Street, and I got a job waiting tables one meal a day. I was on my way out of there on that one meal of the day. I don’t know what I got—maybe two dollars—and I was a good waiter; I got tips and it got me back in school. I was two hours from leaving Howard University. Now, that was a kind of miracle in my life and I stayed at Howard long enough to get a master’s degree, and then I met my wife. I wrote to Mary Grace—you know of course that Mary Grace died about three months—

	O:	Yes.



	R:	Right. And I’ve always been a bookhound. I wasn’t necessarily the best student in life, but you couldn’t come close to finding someone who read more than I did. I made it easy in that way and I stayed at Howard three year. I met Mary Grace my senior year at Talladega College, and I didn’t see her anymore for the next three years. But for three years—before that I met a young man who became a good friend of mine. I had gone to a religious conference in Talladega College and I met Mary Grace. Some of my life sounds like lies, but when I met Mary







Grace it was an unbelievable know. And I met a friend who lived down the hole from me who was a fraternity brother, and I was looking through his book where he had gone to the same conference that I went to the following year ,and I started flipping pages, and there was Mary Grace’s picture. I said, “Where did you meet this girl?” He had gone to the conference the year before me, and so he said, “That’s the girl I’m going to try and marry.” So I went to my room—I guess it was the most foolish thing I’ve ever done in my life—I wrote her a letter. Because I sent her a card after we met, and we exchanged cards three or four times. His name was Noah Harris. So, I came to my room and I wrote Mary Grace a letter. I didn’t propose as such, but I said in effect that we should get to know each other, because something happened at my meeting, and I would just like to write to you to see if there is any profound thing that matches the way I feel. I said, I would just like to get acquainted, because I think you’re the kind of girl I would like to marry. That was the first letter. I ran down to the mailbox and I put it in and I said, “Oh Lord, what a damn fool I am!” [Laughter] I got up the next morning at six o’clock and I met the mailman and tried to get him to give me my letter back and he said, “Young man, they’ll send me to prison for that.”

	O:	[Laughter] Right.



	R:	I said, “Well, nobody is here but you and me.” I had my identity and all those other things, and he wouldn’t give it back to me. Now that started a correspondence—I didn’t see Mary Grace for three years—but almost every day I would read until two o’clock in the morning, and I would write to Mary Grace. I did that so when we finally got together, there was a stack of letters like that. But







I was right. I was right. I had not seen her in three years, and when I took my degree, I saved enough money working at a hotel to take me to Chicago where she was visiting her sister. We married the next year—with no money—and I lost my first job as a director of Christian education at AME Church. And the pastor liked me very much, but the first time I preached there—he would wait until ten minutes before the ceremony was supposed to be preached, my first time, and he walked over to my seat and said, “Jeff, you’re preaching this morning.” I didn’t do anything about it, but every Sunday after that I would get ready to preach. And about two Sundays after that, he called on me that way but I didn’t prepare—and in Methodist churches you make the call to join the church—and the Lord blessed me that day. And the second time I preached, it sounds like a lie, but almost twenty people joined the church that Sunday. I had promised to raise $50 to $100 for a building that they were going to build, and the pastor didn’t like that because although he was a nice man, I got very popular. So he contacted the dean of the School of Religion down at Howard University, and I had the money in my hand, and he nixed it. I told him, “Way to go.” And I left. We had been married about three months, and I didn’t have a job. So I pressed clothes for a week, and the pastor sent me to New Haven to a small church. And in that brief moment, my wife was pregnant so here. I was at a new school, no money, and my wife pregnant. And this last thing I would be through. I didn’t have enough time to get a scholarship there because I spent—when my wife was pregnant, I got in Yale and had to finish that year, but then the bishop in the Methodist church—you have to do things that they want you to do. And you think that I had







gotten into my second degree, I didn’t have enough time to try and raise enough money for the second year and I had Mary Grace take the exam and she passed. And I couldn’t get the money. So the last day I went to see the YMCA here, and the secretary didn’t want me to talk to him. And I wouldn’t leave. [Break in recording] So finally she said, “You’ll have to come tomorrow, young man. He goes home at five o’clock and it’s five minutes after five.” And I stood there, and she said, “Young man, did you hear me?” And I said, “I have to see him today.” She said, “I just told you to come back tomorrow. This is actually the truth. Did you hear me?” And I sit there, and she put her hand on the door and started to close it. And she looked at me, and I hadn’t moved. And so finally she said, “There is a young man out here, and I told him to come tomorrow, and I don’t want to shut the door in his face but he just stands there.” So he looked at her and said, “Well let him in.” I think we had about $50 and we had moved out of the [inaudible 51:22]. Mary Grace [inaudible 51:36] at home. And I walked in and said, “Father, I have something to say.” Now you are not going to believe this. He looked at me—I was standing—he walked over to his table there , he had about four chairs around it, and have you ever seen a little bowl that people keep pipes in? He had about five pipes.

	O:	Oh yeah, back in the day.



	R:	Yeah. So he reached over and he picked up a pipe. I didn’t sit down; I’m standing up. He got the pipe, he sat down, he got his lighter, he flicked the lighter on, he lighted his pipe. I’m standing there watching him, and he sat down and he lit his pipe. I said, “Father”—that’s what they called an Episcopal priest. I said, “I have a







statement and I want you to listen.” Now, I don’t know what I said, but I told him the story and that I had to register tomorrow. There are three basic types of universities in the country. Southern area, middle area, and then the big groups—Yale and Harvard and whatnot. Mary Grace finished as valedictorian of the high school; she was number three in college. So we passed all these tests, and I didn’t have any money but the $50. So then I gave them the background and that I had a master’s degree and my wife was an honors student; she passed at the top of the list for Yale, and you know Harvard thought they were the greatest things in the world over there.

	O:	[Laughter] Right.



	R:	I said, “Now, I want you to listen to what I have to say.” And I talked to him for fifteen minutes and I told him the story. I said, “Now, this is my last shot.” And I told him about the bishop moving us because I had done a good job; I’m a good pastor. I knew how to do my thing. And I said, “I realize how this sounds to you. I have got to have enough money for two people at Yale University. And I have to register tomorrow. There’s no way in hell for me to find this money, since this is my big shot. You see the credentials? I need enough money for two people for Yale and a baby to care for. As hard as it sounds, I’m asking you to make it possible.” In those days, $2000 was a whole lot of money. I had a scholarship, you see, and she was going to graduate school. He looked at me and in effect he said, “Can you be here at eleven o’clock tomorrow morning?” I said, “Yes, sir.” I was there at eleven o’clock, and do you know what we did? We walked three blocks to the bank. And I had never been to the bank, and he said, “What did you







say your name is?” [Laughter] He said, “My wife doesn’t think I’m so bright anyway.” We walked in the back, I wrote my name down in his book, and the man handed me a check for $2000. Can you believe that? At the end of that year, my wife and I were in the graduating lines at graduate school of the School of Religion. I wrote a paper—do you know who Reinhold Niebuhr is?

	O:	Mmhm.



	R:	I wrote my paper for Yale on the life and ministry of Reinhold Niebuhr. Five other professors read the paper. I didn’t know that, but one man read it. It was on basis, it was my judgment at the paper because they were stunned that I was going to try to write on Reinhold Niebuhr. Reinhold Niebuhr’s brother Richard was my professor, and the Evangelical and Reformed Church was the denomination of Reinhold Niebuhr, and his brother and they all read my paper. At the end of that year I got the job as Race Relations Secretary for the Evangelical and Reformed Church. It’s as significant a job as I’ve ever had, maybe excepting the work that I did here. And it’s because of that unbelievable story it started with, again, Dr. Benjamin Mays. And that is the story of my life. So when they say it doesn’t happen; it does happen. And it was because of that, that better than six or odd years has passed between my wife and me and what we have done, so that it was not just Howard Thurman. It was people like that, that is the driving force behind our whole lives, and it’s been a pinch-button because I lived too long. I’m ninety-five now you know. [Laughter] That is the basic story behind all the things that you might be asking questions about, and whatever else I might say is—







	O:	Well if this sounds okay with you, Reverend Rogers, what I would like to propose is, if I can get the consent of our videographer, if we could come out one more time to talk with you maybe next week or the following week about your work as a Race Relations Secretary. We are kind of at the end of our tape right now, but if we could come out maybe later in the month—

	R:	Well, I’ll be here. I need to talk to you anyway. O:	Okay.

	R:	About—



	O:	So, we can stop the interview now. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Liz Gray, February 22, 2013 Audit edited by:	Justin Dunnavant, April 25, 2013 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019