AAHP 205; Lewis; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 205 Elijah Lewis

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Rosalind Smith on November 7, 2011 8 minutes | 7 pages



Abstract: Elijah Lewis was born on December of 1952 in Gainesville, Florida. He discusses his time at an integrated school in Interlachen. Mr. Lewis recounts a story of when the Black and White children of the high school disagreed for many years and how they had a difficult time agreeing on the school’s colors. He then talks about the segregation present at Shands Hospital, which is where he worked during that time. He goes into detail stating that Black patients were not wanted into surgery or in the O.R. Mr. Lewis describes his climb to supervisor of the nursing assistants in the O.R. He also reflects on a racially violent incident regarding a White student beating up Black students and how strained social relations were between Black and White students. He concludes with some thoughts on the need to work with younger generations in the Black community for the sake of the future.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Segregation; Hospitals]













































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 205

Interviewee: Elijah Lewis Interviewer: Rosalind Smith Date: November 7, 2011



	S:	I want to thank Mr. Elijah Lewis for giving this interview to me and the University of Florida. Mr. Elijah Lewis, what year were you born?

	L:	1952, December.



	S:	1952, have you always lived in Gainesville or where you born? L:	I was born here in Gainesville at AGH.

	S:	Oh, you were born in AGH, okay. L:	But, I live in Hawthorne.

	S:	In Hawthorne right now, okay. L:	All the time.

	S:	All the time. Did you go to school here? L:	No, I went to school in Interlachen.

	S:	Interlachen, okay. How was your relationship—I mean was it an all-Black school? L:	No, it was an integrated school.

	S:	Really, it was integrated. Was it high school? L:	It was a high school.

	S:	High school, and how was your relationship with the White people there? L:	Well, it was the first integration.

	S:	First integration, okay.



	L:	Yes, so it was a little shaky. You know it was.



	S:	What was your experience with the White people personally?



	L:	Well, my experience with the White people were you know, it was prejudice because they did know the Blacks, the Blacks didn’t know them. And it wasn’t a





Black school, and it wasn’t a White school, and everybody wanted to rule, you know. So, we had to make an agreement with ruling, just like school colors, you know. We had to agree on school colors. Instead of, the Whites wanted blue and white, the Blacks wanted purple and gold. We had just different agreements. So we had to learn to get along, and it took a numbers of years for us to do that, you know. It was kind of hard back then, but we made it and fought through it, but it was very tough. And I’m the one who went through the integration through school and on my jobs and stuff like that, there was separate bathrooms.

	S:	Separate bathrooms at the schools? L:	Well, at the schools, no.

	S:	No.



	L:	But, it was at the workplace.



	S:	And where were you working at? L:	Shands.

	S:	Shands Hospital. And when you started working here it was segregated? L:	Segregated.

	S:	Okay.



	L:	The bathrooms, the cafeteria. We had Club 44 that you could go to the window and order, but you couldn’t go in.

	S:	Really, so that was for the Black people, for the window, and the White people went in to eat?

	L:	Right.





	S:	Oh okay, and what did you do at Shands at that time? L:	I was in dietary.

	S:	Dietary, okay. Was it all Black staff or—?



	L:	It was mostly Black, but it was a couple of Whites, but it was mainly Blacks. S:	Were the Whites like supervisors or—?

	L:	Yeah they was they dieticians and stuff like that, and supervisors. S:	How did they treat you?

	L:	It was fair, they treated us fair, you know.



	S:	So were the patients here, I mean at Shands were they segregated, also?



	L:	No, but they was prejudice because they didn’t want the Blacks to take them down to surgery. Didn’t want the Blacks in OR with them, stuff like.

	S:	Really, oh okay. And how long have you been working at Shands? L:	Thirty-four years.

	S:	Thirty-four okay. And you started in dietary then you transfer as? L:	As a nursing assistant in the OR.

	S:	Okay, and how was your experience as a nursing assistant in the OR?



	L:	It was pretty fun, you know being in the OR and seeing all the big procedures and stuff like that; it was pretty nice. And it was mainly all Blacks there, you know was the nursing assistants in the OR. And then I become the supervisor of the nursing assistants in the OR. Then I had a lot of doctor’s sons used to work as a nursing assistant while they was going to school, and I was their supervisor. So it was kind of interesting.

	S:	So, the situation flip-flop. Now you the boss over the White people and





everything. And how did that feel to you, how did you feel?



	L:	Well, it was kind of funny because you know the White guys look at me, and they do what I say, but you can tell they wasn’t used to that. But they did what I say, and like I said, the supervisor was Ellie Freeman, she said, “If you don’t do what Elijah said, you come see me.” So they did what I said because the supervisor told them that they had to listen to me. It wasn’t too bad.

	S:	It wasn’t too bad, okay. And do you remember what year Shands integrated the bathrooms and the cafeterias?

	L:	I can’t remember the year, but I know this was in the [19]70s, like 1970 and [19]71 it wasn’t—you know what I mean? I think it was right about [19]73/ [19]74 when they start, you know—

	S:	Integrating. Wow that late, okay. Did you ever voted during that time or—? L:	No.

	S:	No. You never voted? L:	No.

S:  Okay. So can I go back to the high school, when you were in high school? Did you work in the field or you just went to school and didn’t work, or did you work and go to school?

L:   I worked and went to school.



S:   And what did you do on the job?



	L:	Well, I was working part-time in dietary in the kitchen when I was working at Shands, and I was going to school then, and I played sports and stuff.

	S:	So when you played sports in high school, so how was it playing with White kids





and Black kids were playing?



	L:	It was kind of—it was a lot of fun. It was kind of funny because we had to play, you know, the White guys, and we didn’t play with them. You know, and they didn’t want to play with us. So we had a lot of scrimmages, a lot of fights and disagreements and stuff when we was playing. We learned to get along, but it was a lot touch and error there in that time.

	S:	Yeah I understand. Okay. Were there any violence in high school or just like little riffraff?

	L:	Oh yes, it was violence.



	S:	I mean like a race violent, or?



	L:	Yes, it was race violence. We had one White guy. He went somewhere and got a steel pipe, and he came back, and he was just hitting everybody with the steel pipe.

	S:	Including Whites and Black? Or just the Blacks?



	L:	No. Just the Blacks. So once he was hitting people with the steel pipes and everybody tried to catch him. So he ran off campus and kept running, kept running. So he never came back to school no more, but they know that we had it out for him if he would have came back. But he hurt a lot of people with that pipe, and then once he hit them with the pipe he ran. He just kept running, so he ran off the school campus, and he never came back to Interlachen since then.

	S:	Oh, okay.



	L:	So it was very violence.



	S:	Okay. Is there anything else? Oh may I ask you another question about Obama





being the president? Do you think as a race relation—as America we came full circle? Do you think everything has gotten better as the race relation or has gotten worse?

	L:	I don’t think it got better. You know what I mean? But Obama’s doing the best job he can, and always inherited from the previous president. So, there’s problems there, you know, I mean because Bush already had made it, then he’s trying to straighten out what Bush did. You I think it’s all in all he put a light on the Black man because we can think and walk and talk and make our decisions ourselves. So we don’t have anyone to tell us what to do, because we know how to do it ourselves. And it’s a little bit harder, but it made us a better man.

	S:	And how do you feel about the young people today, the young Black people today? Do you think they respect your generation, what you have done, pave the way for them? Or do you think they disrespect and not doing enough?

	L:	I think they’re not doing their job, you know, and because we need to get together with the young Blacks and talk to them. Try to get them on the right way, because the way they’re going now is not the way I would go. You know, so I’m saying that we still got a lot more improvement to do.

	S:	Okay Mr. Lewis, thank you for this interview, and anything else you want to say? L:	No. That’s it.

S:  Okay, thank you. L: You’re welcome. [End of interview]





	Audit edited by:	Holland Hall, April 19, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019