AAHP 051; Weston; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 051 Marna Weston

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Marcus Chance on June 11, 2009

1 hour, 4 minutes | 32 pages



Abstract: Marna Weston discusses his research on Patricia Stephens Due and Priscilla Stephens Kruize and their role in the Civil Rights Movement, and his career of service work, civic engagement, and his experiences both serving on and coaching debate teams. He also reflects on an event he organized through SPOHP, titled Florida Black History: Where We Stand In the Age of Barack Obama. He describes the significance of the event in relation to establishing a more visible commitment at the University of Florida to diversity and inclusion. He contrasts UF’s lack of a Civil Rights monument with the prominent and finely-made monuments on campuses like the University of Mississippi and Florida State University. He also relates his thoughts to some reflections on the election of Barack Obama.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; University of Florida; Integration]









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 051

Interviewee: Marna Weston Interviewer: Marcus Chance Date: June 11, 2009



	C:	My name is Mark Chance, I’m a 4th year history undergraduate representing the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida. And I’m here with Marna Weston. I want to, first off, thank you for taking time out of your day to be here today, and to interview for the program. I really appreciate it.

	W:	Thank you, Marcus. I appreciate that.



	C:	At this point, I want to give you the opportunity to tell us a little bit about your background, where you’re from, your childhood, and anything like that, leading up to your role here at the University of Florida.

	W:	Okay. Well, once again, thank you so much for the opportunity to do this interview. This is actually my second interview with the Proctor program. Fourteen years ago, as a student in the last oral history course that Dr. Proctor taught, I was interviewed and did interviews. So, it’s interesting to think about the passage of time since 1995 to 2009 to do another interview. I don’t feel any different, but the mirror tells me otherwise. [Laughter] I’m Marna Weston, and I am currently a doctoral student here at the University of Florida in my third year in Agricultural Education and Communication. I’m pursuing the doctorate in Communication and Leadership in my department and the focus of my studies are the role of social network in the development, recruitment, and retention of African American faculty at land grant institutions in southeast United States. I did my masters work at Florida State University, where I completed the Master of Science in Policy in Political Communication. My thesis was The Letter from Leon County Jail: Patricia Stevens Due and Tallahassee Civil Rights Movement,





where I explored the work of the Congress of Racial Equality in the early 1960s, and its role in revealing the unique nature of North Florida—and, particularly, its role in developing leadership among people of color. You know, a lot of social movement work with FAMU students and FSU students that worked in the 1960s to help work on the issue of equality in North Florida and the United States. Dr.

Patricia Stevens Due—now; she received an honorary doctorate from FAMU since I’ve first interviewed her in December 2003—has become a person whom I’ve maintained contact with. Her husband, John Due, was a Tallahassee attorney, and he was one of the Freedom Riders in the early 1960s. So, just studying them and learning from them became part of what I did to complete my academic work at Florida State. My undergraduate work was here at the University of Florida, where I received dual degrees in August 1994, a Bachelor of Arts in History, Bachelor of Science in Telecommunication. I was very active in the community as an undergraduate. I was student body treasurer here at the University of Florida. I was executive director for Student Services in Financial Aid; cabinet director for Multicultural Affairs; I served as secretary of the Alachua County Democratic Party. I was recognized by the city of Gainesville for outstanding work in multiculturalism and bringing different groups of people together. We organized protests against the Ku Klux Klan, worked with the Southern Poverty Law Center, bridged and networked a lot of organizations that had not always worked together. And I was fortunate to work with some people to help make that possible. Was president of a leadership society that’s currently— it’s kind of dormant, but it was called the North Star Leadership Council, that put





together people who were concerned about preserving the history—the integrity of the history of people or color on this campus, particularly African Americans. I worked as coordinator of the Upward Bound Program with Dr. G.W. Mingo. After I graduated from University of Florida, also worked as the Administrative Assistant for Associate Dean Harry Shaw in OASIS, which is where our TRIO programs was housed on campus, and was formally called the Office of Minority Affairs and Special Programs. Worked here in Alachua County as a coordinator of the first truancy center for a brief amount of time. I’ve worked with Meridian Behavioral Healthcare in the State Attorney’s Office. Worked with Rod Smith.

Helped John Martin, Sid Martin’s son, in his two campaigns for County Commission. We were unsuccessful, but we raised a lot of money. I managed those campaigns. I also managed Bill Ogle’s House race against Bob Casey when he ran for State House. Tried to be very active in local politics. Worked with Clinton/Gore in the [19]96 campaign at the state level. I’ve been a high school teacher. A local private school called the Trilogy School for Learning Alternatives, which is really interesting because the kids call it “The Trilogy School where learning is an alternative.” [Laughter] One of the alternatives. They’re pretty funny. That, so, that was my work in private school, after I worked as a substitute teacher with the Alachua County School System, but from that, I worked for a brief time as a high school teacher in the public school systems in Alachua County at Newberry High School, where I taught Social Studies and coached the girls’ basketball team. And prior to that, as a volunteer, was an assistant for the boys’ basketball team, and coached the freshmen and JV boys. Worked for a





year at Buchholz High school as the coach of the debate team there. Worked at Wellington High School in Palm Beach County as coach of the debate team there. And coached four state champions in public speaking—two of them freshmen; they didn’t know how to spell debate before their freshman year, and before the end of the year they were state champions. Speech and debate had always something that kind of ran through my activities in high school and college. I was on the debate team at the University of Florida and at Florida State University and in community college at Santa Fe Community College. And in high school, I was also very active. I was a state champion in public speaking, and a district champion that went to nationals representing the state of Florida two times. Growing up, I spent some time in North Carolina on my grandmother’s farm. We still have some land in Cumberland and Samson County, North Carolina; little place called Autryville. It’s where I first learned how to work. My brother Mario and I, for several years, lived with my grandmother, and we cropped tobacco: you know, hand-tied it, put it up in the barn to cure it, cropped it in the fields. We picked cucumbers, and we sold that stuff. It was kind of our livelihood. Planted strawberries. Picked Cotton. Kept a spring and a fall garden.

My grandmother lived on a very small place, but it was on a pretty good-sized piece of land. In fact, our entire family, on my mother’s side, is still on most of that land. And that was in Sampson County, North Carolina in Autryville. I have three brothers. My middle brother is Mario. He is formerly an elementary school teacher, and now going up to be a principal in the middle school level. He has been in Chicago almost eighteen years. Lives on the Southside. Actually, he lives





in the neighborhood—Barack Obama was his state rep, and so, you know, he saw him all the time. He was always telling me about this guy named “Barack Obama.” And I said, “Wow, he’s got a crazy name.” He said, “Yeah, but he’s going places, doing stuff.” So, we talked about that. My youngest brother, Marco, lives in West Palm Beach. He’s a—graduated cum laude from Palm Beach Atlantic University. And he is in the midst of building his career. He works with eyeglasses, he’s got the state certification to actually make the lenses and stuff like that. My mom and dad are both now ordained ministers. My mom has been with the Palm Beach County School System for thirty-four years. She’ll be retiring in November 2005. The DROP program, Margaret Weston. My dad, Marvin Weston, is retired from the United States Post Office, but he was also in the United States military. He was a policeman. And when he was stationed at Fort Brag, he and my mom met. And that’s how me and my brothers came to be. So, that’s kind of the skinny. Elementary school, I went to U.B. Kinsey/Palmview Elementary, now—it was Palmview Elementary then, but named after U.B. Kinsey, the great South Florida educator who has now passed on. Went to Conniston Junior High School for a brief time in West Palm Beach. Went to Beaver Dam Elementary in Sampson County, North Carolina. And went to Twin Lakes High School in West Palm Beach, FL, which is now the Dreyfoos School of the Arts—is on that land.

	C:	Well, that’s an extensive resume of everything you’ve accomplished thus far.



One accomplishment of yours that I want to talk about today was an event that was held on March 17, 2009. There’s a program you were absolutely, what I





hear, instrumental in. Some say it couldn’t have happened without you. It was titled “Florida Black History: Where We Stand in the Age of Barack Obama.” Can you explain your role in the execution of that program?

	W:	Sure. Well, just to kind of put it in perspective: how it came together, it really was the work of the Proctor Center, as a group. Everybody played a role in putting it together. And I’m honored that I’m considered kind of one of the people that spearheaded it. I certainly had a lot to say when we were putting it together. And I remember that originally we had looked at “Florida Black History: Where We Stand.” And then Paul said, “Hm. There’s a lot of”—Paul Ortiz, the director of the center—chimed in and said “You know, there are a lot of things going on right now with Barack Obama.” And, you know, that’s how the title kind of slowly came together: “Where We Stand in the Age of Barack Obama.” But it was—the March 17 program, definitely now that time has passed, I see more of the significance of the program. What it means for the University of Florida, what it meant for the Proctor Center to be able to work so closely with so many groups and organizations that wanted to play a part in addressing and revealing, you know, the history, where we stand in the age of Barack Obama, for Black people at the University of Florida. And the timing was perfect in that it worked in concert—and this was never planned, but it just happened in concert—with the fiftieth anniversary of integration at the University of Florida, the appearance of the first official African American students. They were doing a program called “Celebrating the Firsts,” recognizing those first African American graduates. So, the timing of the program seemed in a way just to continue that whole year from





February 2008 to February 2009, concluding on February 7th with “Celebrating the Firsts,” and the very next month we did “Florida Black History: Where We Stand in the Age of Barack Obama.” The genesis of the program probably started back during my—at least my contributions to it—my growing up. I can remember being on the porch of my home in West Palm Beach one day. I was very young. I might have been in first or second grade. I was playing with a rocket on the porch. Just kind of—you know, we had a lot of launches from Cape Kennedy back then. We’d sit on the roof of my house and watch them at night, sometimes just watch the little rocket go in the air. This is back when they used to deliver milk to your house—actually deliver it to the home. McArthur Dairy bought our bottles of milk and took ‘em away. And I was on the porch of my home in West Palm Beach, Florida, on Eighth Street between Division Avenue and Tamarind Avenue, 910 Eighth Street. And the milkman came up. And so, he was delivering the milk, and he said, “How are you doing this morning, son?” I said, “Good fine, sir. Thank you!” He said, “What are you doing over there?” I said, “I’m playing with a rocket.” He said, “Wow, that’s great. What do you want to be when you grow up? And I said, “I want to be an astronaut.” He said, “That’s great.” He turned around and went back, he was walking to his truck. And I said, “Wait a second, sir. When I grow up, I want to be president of the United States.” And he stopped and looked at me and said, “Don’t you know Colored boys don’t get to be president?” And, you know, just for me, I was more of a kid. It didn’t really stick as a major thing for me at that time. But my dad came out of the screen door of the house, and walked up to him and handed him the milk back,





and said, “Don’t you ever come back here again. Don’t you ever tell my son something like that.” And, so, I would say the genesis of my involvement in all types of civil rights areas of knowledge and research began at that moment, when I began to think more and more about what the milkman had said to me. And so, going from that point in time through my education where I went to Florida State and was working on the masters, and had the chance to look at CORE, the Congress on Racial Equality: I have the history of, in my home, my parents being, you know, very radicalized in the Movement. They were the children of the Movement, and I was a child of the children of the Movement. I can recall us watching The F.B.I. on television on Sunday night. That was a show with Efrem Zimbalist, Jr.: The F.B.I. Dunh dunh duunnhh! And they’d do, like, the ten most wanted. And we watched because Angela Davis was one of the ten most wanted. And my mom had her hair like Angela Davis, and we wore dashikis and had “Free Angela Davis” buttons. When she was going to school, we were very much into her reading, with stuff like If They Come in the Morning, and her talking about the Soledad brothers in prison, and the stuff that happened, and Attica. As a child, watching television, my parents made sure I’d watch things like the Watergate hearings. The cartoons wouldn’t come on, or we wanted to go outside and play—me and my brother Mario—and they said, “No, you need to watch this, because this will be important one day.” So, my entire understanding of politics and things taking place around me genesis-ed from all these things that took place. I get to work on my masters. I met Patricia Stevens Due and talked about her work with the Congress on Racial Equality, and what happened





in Tallahassee in 1960s, and integrating the lunch counters. And having always been fascinated with February 1960, with what happened in Greensboro, the lunch counter. All those things. Writing the thesis, doing the study, being involved—and also talking to the people locally over the years, like T.A. Wright, and Dan Harmeling—just seemed to come together when we were having the meetings talking about the program, “Florida Black History: Where We Stand in the Age of Barack Obama.” And it was evident that there was, within a small group of people that cared, a great understanding of how history and the experience of African Americans in communities and on college campuses mattered, and had left a mark, and needed to be explored further. And that it needed to be revealed in the words, the actual words of the people who had been there, to the greatest extent possible. There needed to be more thought and scholarship about it. And when we just talked more and more about the program: who would we invite, and why was it important. And then, Dr. Machen, President Machen, agreed to be involved. And then, Senator Nelson wanted to be involved. It showed that were really on something that we knew was important, but we wanted to be able to share with other people. So, if there’s a genesis of the program, it comes from some personal experiences on my part, definitely, because that gave me internal motivation. But everybody added something, a piece of themselves, to help the story be told. And it needs to continue to be told, because if we don’t tell the story, if we don’t inspire the thoughts in younger people to carry on the quest for knowledge—and also, to capture these voices before their gone. I mean, the people who were involved in





these movements who were, you know, teens in the [19]20s and [19]30s, in the [19]40s, [19]50s, and [19]60s; you know, fifty years has past by since the [19]50s. You know, forty years since the [19]60s. We’re coming upon a window, where if we don’t actually capture some of these stories, they’ll be lost forever. So, that’s kind of a rambling way to talk about it. But that’s kind of how I see the genesis of the March 17th program.

	C	Wow. You mentioned Bernie Machen and Senator Bill Nelson wanting to become a part of this program. What was the significance of their participation in the program? What does that mean to you?

	W:	Well, it’s extremely important. I’ll share just a short story that happened recently in the preparation of some of my doctoral work. I’ve had discussions with scholars and colleagues. And I came to the point one day where I had to explain what Jim Crow was to someone. And this was a person with a high level of education. and actually, when I explained it to my brother on the phone the other day, he couldn’t believe it. He was like, “You had to explain to someone what Jim Crow was?” And, yeah. I had to do it. And this was a person who I respect in a scholarly manner, a person that has an impact on the development of my further growth in academe. And I just thought about how the things that I take for granted because of what I read growing up—you know, David Walker’s Appeal; and works from Angela Davis; the writings of Dr. King; and what Malcolm X talked about. A lot of people see those things just in the context of, like, a movie or a brief story. You’ve got to really capture their attention with something that sticks, or they don’t have buy-in into it. We’re so fortunate to have people like Dr.





Machen here at the University of Florida, who in his wisdom of looking at the future of the institution, truly respects and understands the importance of telling stories from the different communities. I mean, he doesn’t have to do that. He could be the president of the University of Florida, and not care one way or the other. And he’d still have his job. I mean, there’re so many things to focus on. But he understands the importance. And, with the entire mission at the University of Florida, with things that the Council on Diversity, and Celebrating the Firsts, and this program, “Florida Black History.” When the University of Florida recognizes at the highest level, with the college President, the importance of having a faculty that reflects the composition of the student body, and having a student body that reflects the composition of the people of the state of Florida—that matters. You think about kids who come here and look for someone that looks like them, in order to inspire them further in learning and knowledge. We don’t have enough mentors to go around for people that look like what our student body looks like.

So, a student comes here from, say, Opa-locka, or Homestead, or Immokalee, or Jacksonville, or Pensacola, or whatever; and they want—they don’t really know what they’re searching for, but education is key, and they’re looking for someone that reminds them of themselves just to give them the confidence and the courage to pursue study. And they don’t find that person. The opportunity for the development of that person’s full potential can be lost. And Dr. Machen understands that. And that’s why he understood the importance of the program. Probably the thing that was most significant, for me—and I hope that it impressed everyone else—is in the communities of color, if we’re going to use PC language





for a second, but I’m just talking about Black people in general. Because my parents are both ordained ministers. Everybody talks about how White people come around during election time. And they want to sit in the pulpit and let the Black community see who they are. And so, they’ll come in, say a few words, then they’ll say something like “Well, I’m sorry. I have to go,” and they’ll leave. But, those politicians that really understand the community stay for the entire service. Now, this is not to call Dr. Machen a politician in any way, because he’s an academic and understands the role of politics. But he and his wife, Kris Machen—and she has to be given, the first lady of the University has to be given a lot of credit, too—they stayed for the entire three-plus hour program. They were there ahead of time, meeting people at the door, shaking hands, and talking to people, and they stayed afterwards. That had to have made a lasting impression on people. Whether it was talked about or not, it was something that I noticed and took note of, and recall and give him credit for; not only his financial commitments, and his academic and intellectual commitments, but his time commitments. So, being there meant a lot. Now, Senator Nelson is another instance. And people have talked about him as a great Floridian. I actually met Senator Nelson when I was the executive director of the Young Democrats of the State of Florida. And we didn’t really have the kind of conversation that inspired me at the time—this is back when he was a Congressman. As I’ve looked over his career, and seen the things he’s committed to, and especially this program, it just shows that when you have a life that commits you to what’s important for all the people of Florida, and all the issues that are important, it reflects. People are





able to see it. Him sending that tape, taking the time to talk about these issues; again, just like President Machen, he didn’t have to do that. As a United States Senator, with his responsibility, and authority, and power, it didn’t have to be something important to him. But he recognized the importance of having the narratives be shared, having the story be revealed, having greater understanding and learning come from the event. And so to answer your question, with both President Machen and Senator Nelson, it was absolutely critically important for the historic relevance of the program, but also for people to see their involvement. Because that’s—you see it first. They say seeing is believing. Dr.

Machen and Senator Nelson have showed their commitment to “Florida Black History: Where We Stand in the Age of Barack Obama.” It’s there for everyone to see.

	C:	Wow. I just recently viewed the event, and it was magnificent. Let me just say that. But what does this event mean for the campus, campus-wide? What does this event signify? What did it prove? What did it mean?

	W:	Mm. Well, it says a lot, in a lot of different ways. It will be interpreted by different people in different ways. For yourself, as a young student here at the University of Florida, I’m sure it has a certain meaning for you that may be different, distinct from the meaning it has for me; as it may be different, distinct for like someone like Dr. Carlton Davis who’s been here for years, and recently retired, and one of the original African American professors here at the University of Florida. I would like to go back and talk to him about what he thought about the program. But what it means? Okay, let me take off the mask here for a second. One thing that





I’ve always wanted to happen here at UF is for there to be a stronger and long- lasting integration of the contributions of African Americans here at UF. It was very difficult for me to come here. Not because I didn’t want to come here, because I wanted to come here. But my parents, people in our family: “Why do you want to go to Gainesville? There’s prejudice up there. You should go to FAMU. You should go to FSU. You should go to Miami. Gainesville? There’s nothing for you up there, as a Black kid! You don’t play basketball. You don’t do anything like that.” Those are things that kind of stick with you a little bit as a kid when you hear them growing up. And when I was coming here, “Are you trying to be White? Why you want to go there?” I think that for UF to continue on this path of increasingly identifying with all of the publics in a diverse state such as Florida—with our difference geographically, our differences politically, our differences culturally; where people live, how they live—the university needs to reach out more and recognize, even more than it is doing now, those various contributions. And I can only speak from myself and my experience, as a Black man who went to school here and experienced everything there was—as a Gator, and being Black. It’s tough sometimes to tell others what a great place this is, because there aren’t visible symbols of UF’s commitment. What Dr. Machen did was right on time: visible symbolization. And the example I’ll give is this: when I was at Florida State, they built a legacy walk with a long area stretching for a great distance that has the contributions and the commitment of the institution to African Americans at Florida State. And at the end of that legacy walk, they built a larger-than-life bronze statue called “Integration.” And when you





go the websites at FSU, this Integration statue, pictures of it will pop up. And it’s fantastic because it has a larger than life size bronze of the first African American Homecoming Queen at Florida State University, in full regalia. It was kind of a timepiece, it’s not appropriate, because it’s got feathers and it wasn’t what the Seminoles actually did. But, that’s how they demonstrated back then. And so, there she is, in all her glory, being the first African American Homecoming Queen. And then, they have a larger-than-life bronze statue of the first Black undergraduate student, with his name there. He has a briefcase, looking very scholarly, walking on campus. And they have the same larger-than-life-type bronze of the first African American student to wear a sports uniform at FSU, with the “FS” on the uniform. And you can visibly see FSU’s commitment to recognizing the contributions of Blacks on campus. And then the Legacy Walk, with all these kiosks and the names of different people; there’s nothing like that here at the University of Florida. At the University of Mississippi, they have a larger-than-life bronze depicted of James Meredith walking through the schoolhouse door through this arch symbolizing learning, behind the grove—that place where the French journalist was killed, and there was rioting when James Meredith was supposed to start on campus. But they actually have it there. And there are all these institutions that have these actual, visible symbols in addition to their academic commitments, and welcoming people, and scholarship. But it’s tougher here at UF to actually buy into that sometimes, or at least, to sell it as an ambassador of UF, telling people, “This is a great place. You need to come here just like everyone else has come here. This is the flagship institution. This is





where learning begins. This is the center of everything.” When these other institutions demonstrate these commitments so visibly, and the University of Florida does not. Now, I don’t know if some of that is that we’re just trying to catch up, or if it’s because the commitment of our alumni hasn’t gotten there yet. Things like Celebrate the Firsts and this program are helping in that regard. We have all these people that have gone on to do great things in science, and learning, and athletics, and so few of them—I wonder why more of the athletes at UF that have done really well for themselves aren’t—maybe they are, but there’s not a visible way of seeing that they’re saying, “Hey! UF is a great place! I learned there. You can learn there. It’s a part of things.” And I think some of it is that there is a disconnect between the visual and reality for people because they don’t see it. And I think, in a roundabout of answering your question, we need to do more, as Black alumnus and as the institution, to visibly show University of Florida’s commitment to all people, but in particular also to the community of people of color, and African American people. And somehow, there’s a disconnect. So, the thing about Celebrate the Firsts, and about “Florida Black History: Where We Stand in the Age of Barack Obama,” and Senator Nelson, and Dr. Machen, and Paul Ortiz as director of this program, is that we’re actually now seeing more visible, tangible evidence of the commitments. Those types of tangible symbols have to be seen, because seeing is believing for a lot of people. The people that told me I shouldn’t come to the University of Florida because “They’re prejudiced in Gainesville”—the more that we do things that show





commitment, I think it helps the university, and it helps the state of Florida, and it helps our nation to do those things.

	C:	Of course. One of my favorite portions of the program was the speakers’ panel.



Could you give us a little insight about the speakers’ panel? How’d you decide on composition? What’d you think of their remarks?

	W:	Well, we had just an incredible panel with Dr. Zohara Simmons, Evelyn Mickle, Dan Harmeling, Sherry DuPree. Each with a lifetime of experience in the Movement, in education, reaching out and helping others; definitely steeped in the struggle. Probably, Dan Harmeling pops out as really significant, because he was an undergraduate on campus when Dr. Marshall Jones did not receive tenure here at the University of Florida. He was very active in campus politics with the Freedom Party. His brother actually ran for student body president, and sadly died—his twin brother, back during that time in the [19]60s, which has had a profound impact on him. He was a colleague of Patricia Stevens Due, advocating with Judy Bettinger Brown here in North Florida, between Tallahassee and Gainesville, in Freedom Struggle, and CORE, and SNCC issues. And that was in the [19]60s and early [19]70s, and he’s still here now.

Actually, Dan has always been interesting to me because of the blended ethnicity of his family. Here he is, a White guy, but his son was the president of the Black Student Union here on campus when I was an undergraduate. So, people that don’t know those things would miss his strong connections, if you looked and you didn’t dig a little deeper and actually know. So, having his presence on the panel was very important. And of course, Evelyn Marie Moore Mickle defines that





history that I was speaking of, that connection that made the program important in the first place. To come here from the then-segregated Black community college down in Ocala, to the University of Florida, and being the first graduate of the nursing program, and to persevere here at a time when—you know, who knows the kind of things that people were doing? To be socially isolated. To be physically threatened or intimidated. I mean, to not even to be able to just go to the library without thinking about it, and go and learn. That everything you did had to be incorporated in, “Where am I gonna be? Is it safe? Who am I meeting? Who’m I going to hang out with?” I mean, she is such an inspiration to talk to, and I appreciate her so much, because people like her, and Gerald Johnson, and Judge Mickle, and Lee Bailey, and all of the Firsts; had they not done what they did, none of us would be here now. And just to think about the ways they must’ve been demeaned socially, emotionally, physically, and still to demonstrate the academic rigor to get through this institution—which at all times has been the finest institution in the state. I mean, the place where, when you get that degree from there, it puts you at a level, it puts you in a community of people, that help make connections to assist you for your lifetime, for your children’s lifetimes, is just an incredible thing. I’m humbled in her presence. Just a little, always overwhelmed with her calm demeanor, and how she just tells it straight like it is. Everyone who’s here who is Black and just otherwise a student here owes her and people like her a great deal of debt. And they need to know about her to understand that.

	C:	Of course, of course. The moderator for the panelists was Joel Buchanan.





	W:	Oh, my gosh! I can’t believe I didn’t mention Joel! [Laughing]



	C:	First Black student to integrate Gainesville high school, if my memory is good at this point. He posed a couple questions to the panel, most of which they couldn’t get into detail because of time constraints. But, I would like to pose these questions. I want to know your insight.

	W:	Wow!



	C	—on these questions that they answered—particularly, do you think Black history is important?

	W:	Well, Black history is really America’s history. People tried to separate Black history in a category. And I guess we did a little bit with a title, trying to be provocative, and also to gather people’s attention. But, if we were really honest about it, Blacks and Whites in this country are inextricably bound to each other. I guess one day they’ll actually get down to the point where they can do some genetic testing to prove it, but we are all very much connected with our humanity, and also with our socialization—particularly the South, and our integration with each other over a long period of time. Black history is important because it’s America’s history; it’s the history of the South, it’s the history of the United States. It’s important to look at and recognize the contributions of all of those Americans, because of the struggles they went through. We have to go the movie theatre now to really try to appreciate those things. I recently saw The Great Debaters.

For people who haven’t seen the movie, you wouldn’t connect, like, the labor and civil rights issue of the country to what was taking place surrounding that college, or the issues surrounding—but once you see it, when you see this thematic





depiction of tarring and feathering, and burning and lynching of human beings— which takes place in little segments of the movie to give you the underlying theme—it puts it into perspective that more people need to understand the history of this country, and of the South, and of people of color, and the contributions that they made. You can’t respect people—culturally, where they’re from—as something separate, if you don’t know about and don’t identify with it, especially if you don’t think it’s important at all. And that’s probably one of thing that’s missing in our education system. When I was growing up, we learned about Black history in school. But that’s because of the teachers that I had, and the influence of my parents. Now, it’s in a lot of ways, more of like a niche kind of thing. You have to à la carte ask for that particular part of your education or you don’t get it. And the things that you do get, people know, well, Booker T. Washington told the story about dropping a bucket in the ocean once. And George Washington Carver invented the peanut. [Laughing] And, Martin Luther King gave up his life so that other people could have equality. Those are simplified versions of what occurred. But when you talk to people about Harry Moore and Harriet Moore being blown up in their home in Mims, Florida on Christmas night, 1951, because he was registering Black people to vote, and that that story is carried worldwide but not really talked about in the United States, it puts things in perspective. That we go from hundreds of Blacks in Florida being registered to forty-eight thousand Blacks being registered, because of one man that worked with the NAACP, and worked with his teachers’ association in Florida. And the ostracism that he received even among his peers and





colleagues because they were afraid of what he was doing. That it wasn’t, well, “Why are you doing this? This isn’t being a teacher. Why are you registering people to vote?” And to try to have his livelihood at the same time. And still, nobody knows who planted the bomb under the house that killed him immediately and killed his wife nine days later. How many people even know the name Harry Moore or Henrietta Moore? The Moores. How many people even know that? It’s just sometimes, it’s sad. And people need to know about things like that. It also is a measure of a quality of our education and our culture when people in other places recognize the significance of what happens here more than the people that live here do. It says a lot. I had a situation—this is not specific to African American history or Black history, which was your question, but I’ll just segway a little bit. I was teaching a class a couple semesters back in the summertime, a public speaking class. I always include elements of pop culture in my classes to the extent the syllabus allows—that little part where you can put yourself into the course. As far as giving examples of great speeches, I’ve used things in the past like Barbara Bush’s speech at Wellesley in June of 1990, which some students might not expect. But I think it was one of the finest speeches delivered on American soil to a hostile audience. Because at Wellesley, every class picks a color associated with a graduating class. So, that particular class had chosen the color purple. So, they wanted Alice Walker to speak. But Barbara Bush was the person who was going to speak at that particular time. So she went and gave a speech, and there was all this protest because people didn’t like the policies of President Bush forty-one, so they were





kind of bringing it out against his wife, the First Lady, Barbara Bush, whose work on literacy was excellent as well. So she gives the speech, and slowly she turns the audience to her side by her effective use of humor. And demonstrating she has been to Wellesley before when her husband was then the Ambassador to China. So, I use this in my class as a model of what I thought effective public speaking, of turning an audience around. So that same vein, I ask questions sometimes at the beginning of class. And on one particular day in the summer, it was the day that Reverend Jerry Falwell had passed away. Of course, for me, I thought that was incredibly profound! Here’s a man who, because he saw the importance of bringing together people of faith in the South, in Virginia, and around the country to support particular points of view, to promote American social values as he thought they were important, as people that believed like him, under their understanding of Christianity, understood it. Bringing those people together, we had the Moral Majority. And because the Moral Majority and the Christian Coalition were founded, Ronald Reagan was elected President of the United States, and Newt Gingrich became the Speaker of the House later. All these things are so connected. And in a place like Florida, where after Jim Smith was Attorney General and switched parties to Republican, from Democrat to Republican, we have a whole group of people that switched to Republicans from the [19]80s now. In fact, we even have a State House that is dominated by Republicans. All of this happened because of Jerry Falwell. There’s other things that happened before, but Jerry Falwell is an integral piece of that. So, I think, as an instructor, it’s important to bring those perspectives out and talk to students,





regardless of their political beliefs, to talk about these issues. I’m talking about the importance of Jerry Falwell at the beginning of class, and eighty, eighty-five people looking back at me, blank-face. So I said, “How many of you understand where I’m going with this? What I’m talking about?” And four people raised their hands. And so I said, “Okay. Let me try something else. How many of you are registered Republican?” The vast majority of the class except for the four students who raised their hands, and a couple more students—you know, it’s Florida, so everybody isn’t going to tell you how what feel anyway, so some people didn’t vote at all, but I said, “Thanks very much.” It was interesting to me that we had, at least in that sample of my class, all of these students who were professing a political choice, a political philosophy—because I had heard some of their comments—but they didn’t even know who Jerry Falwell was, or that he had died the night before! And that disconnect, for me, is very similar to what takes place with Black history in this country. The understanding that there are people who, because of where they live and their place of history, would be enriched and their lives would be better enriched, by understanding who they are, where they came from, what’s the background of this place I’m at. Understanding here, at the University of Florida for example, Black Tuesday took place in 1971, where students occupied the office of the president of the University in order to make changes so that their academic environment, and that of their mentors, and that of what they were trying to achieve academically, would continue. And that in the future, other students like themselves, and all students, would benefit from the academic environment. And there are students here today that still don’t even





know that that occurred. Dr. Betty Stewart Dowdell still teaches on campus through the TRIO programs. I think she’s over in Walker Hall. She was actually one of the students on campus. She came back, got her masters, her doctorate here at the University of Florida, and teaches here. And I wonder how many students get a chance to take advantage of talking to her about those times, and her perspective today on what took place. I had the great fortune in working with Dr. Shaw’s office to actually meet three of the original professors who were African Americans here at UF: Dr. Carlton Davis, who, as I said, recently retired but still has an office in IFAS; Dr. Ron Foreman, in English, who I still speak with as much as possible—his wife is not very well right now, or he would’ve been at the program, the March 17th program that evening; and Elwyn Adams, the late maestro who—in Europe, there were building-size portraits of this man because of his virtuosity on the violin. And he was here for years. And at the end of his career, he had this office at the very top of the music building. He had to kind of climb these stairs and stuff. It was really weird. But I wanted to learn from him, the maestro, while he was here. And I had that opportunity, and I videotaped this little concert that he did and everything. And some other students who believed similarly as I did in Northstar Leadership Council followed up and paid respect to him for the contributions he had made. Just a genius all over the world.

Somebody that people recognized. But here, at UF, on this campus, when he passed away, a lot of people didn’t even know what to write for the obituary. They had no idea of who he was. We all have such a brief amount of time here, not only at the institution but in life in general. And we have to pick and choose





what it is that we learn. But, we would all be richer—if we didn’t even have the time to learn anything about it, just to acknowledge the significance of the struggles of people who have been marginalized among us. People who’ve had to resist or to challenge the system just a little bit more. And in this country, a lot of history of that has been based upon on the color of your skin. That is why Black history is important. And that is not even acknowledging the distinction in how Black men and Black women deal with environment in different ways, or the academic lifestyle in different ways, or society or walking down the street in different ways—that’s just touching the surface. So. I mean, that’s why the March 17th program was important.

	C:	I agree, I agree. November 2008. Barack Obama’s elected President of the United States.

	W:	All I can say about that is, “Wow.” I’m still wowed. [Laughter]



	C:	I want to gauge your perspective on some questions about Barack Obama. One of these questions was posed to the panelists in the March 17th program: Has the meaning of Black history changed with the election of Barack Obama—as well as, like, race relations?

	W:	Well, the meaning of Black history has been modified, because now you can point to a person who has self-identified as African American and White who’s President of the United States. I mean, literally African American: a dad from Africa and a mom from America. So, in terms of the historical footnote, certainly, the meaning of Black history has changed a little bit—in that footnote at least. But just because Barack Obama is Black, or self-identifies himself and visually we





can see he is Black, is President of the United States, does not the state of Black America for everybody. I mean, Barack Obama was different in the very beginning. His wife was a very successful, powerful attorney in Chicago from the right family with the right connection in their political machine. He got involved in politics and community organizing in Chicago, went to Colombia, was Harvard Law Review. He was already, and is already, an outstanding person in his own right, separate from his ethnicity, although he is blended with that. Barack Obama was making it before he was elected President. So, it doesn’t change the state of everybody Black in America because the president is Black. There is no, ‘Your situation changes automatically because your Black card that everybody got because Barack Obama was elected President of the United States.’ What I think it does do, is it demonstrates that Black leaders can be as effective, and competent, and successful as White leaders. Obviously, he was able to use the internet in an innovative and creative way. What he definitely demonstrated was, when people talk about community organizing is not a job or not being important, that that’s wrong. He was able to outfox the foxes. His database, his way of organizing people. I remember waking up on election morning, and there was this picture with a circle of Barack Obama’s face on my front door. I’d never talked to anybody about that. And I looked down the street and they were on everybody’s doors. And when I rode from High Springs, where I lived, into Gainesville, there were Obama signs everywhere election morning. That’s effective organizing. Because I’m even the precinct committeeman in High Springs out of Precinct Twenty in here Alachua County—I was not at the time,





but I am now. Nobody was saying, “Oh, we gotta do this or that.” Things just happened. Emails happened. Phone calls happened. He showed that there’s more to winning elections than just the rhetoric. People talk about what a great speaker he was. And that was almost a backward compliment; it was an insult, really. It was like, “Oh, he was a good speaker. But what can he do?” Now, listen to him on television. He explains the process that he takes for every decision that he makes. He further talks about the background of how the process was put together. Then, he explains the transparency that anyone can see these processes. “Here are the people who supported my thoughts.” And they all come up and stand behind him.” And this is the decision that I’ve made, based on the feedback and information that I got from these people, and here is what I anticipate will be the outcomes from these decisions. I now present it to you.” He does that for everything that he does. And I believe that it infuriates people that he is so prepared. That he has answers. You don’t even have to agree with him. In fact, there are things that Barack Obama, as President of the United States, President Obama has done I don’t necessarily agree with. In fact, just him being elected, I was surprised with—I was happy for my mom and my dad in their lifetimes, having rode on the back of the bus, and the indignities they dealt with growing up in the South—my dad in West Palm Beach, and my mom in North Carolina—for them to see in their lifetime a Black man elected president is something that in my family, generally, people would not have believed would have happened. So, there’s a great deal of pride, and relief, and happiness for them to see that during their time on this earth. But, everything the President has





talked about, I didn’t necessarily agree with. I was really more of a Hillary person. I’m for Obama and I voted for him, but the Clinton, the way Bill Clinton and Hillary Clinton operated clicked for me, for my particular political views. And I fully expected that she would win the nomination, so I was kind of surprised. But considering what we’ve had previously, he has now raised the bar, set the standard that—well, I hope he’s raised the bar. The alternative is that he has not raised the bar. And what will happen now is that instead of responding to logic, organization, forethought, transparency, and reasoning, that we would go in the opposite direction, which is maybe what has been foreshadowed by some of these things we’ve seen recently in the news, with the Army—the guy in the Army who was killed by the gentleman who was described as Muslim, or the security guard yesterday killed in the Holocaust museum by the gentlemen who identifies himself as a White supremacist. I hope that those aren’t the alternatives that we moved toward: civic expressions and political expressions that go more to the extreme, as opposed to what he president is demonstrating. I think it shows a lot that he’s willing to and able to defend logically what he says. And I think for me, it’s refreshing as an American citizen to see that. And I think it also has helped our profile around the world. Does that mean that’s the only way to operate? No. We may get the next president or another that does things exactly the opposite. We may end of with a bunch of people on television or in movies running things, or entertainers, or more sensationalized, and it’s all about ‘government of the people, by the people, for the people,’ right? It’s what the people want. But for me, while I was more skeptical about the candidacy of





Senator Obama, I have been pleasantly surprised with the process that he goes through on his decisions—not that I agree with all of his decisions, but I like the process. And like I said, I’m also pleased that my parents got to see it. I wish that my grandmother had lived long enough to see Barack Obama elected President of the United States. I know that when she saw him on television, she thought there was something special about him. But she passed away November 2006, so she did not get to see him elected president. But I wish she had seen that.

	C:	Amazing. I’m coming up to my close. But all my questions, you pretty much touched on them, some of which I’ve had to check off, because it’s just amazing. I want to close with a question given to me by one of my colleagues. You talked about the milkman experience, when the milkman turned to you and said, “Colored boys aren’t supposed to be President of the United States.” Besides that experience, have you ever experienced any other kind of racism in your life?

	W:	Sure.



	C:	What happened? One significant instance that you could tell us about.



	W:	Wow, that I could tell you about. The thing about hurtful incidences that happen—not to just me, but I’m sure to everybody—is that they can happen in all kinds of different ways. There can be this, BOOM, dramatic thing that happens, and you’re like, “Oh, my life has been changed! I’m so upset by it.” Or, and this is probably more to the experiences of other people, little things happen all the time that build, and that affect the psyche, affect the heart, affect the spirit. It’s probably one of the reasons that President Obama’s Audacity of Hope did so well; it talked about those kinds of things. But you’re in a grocery store and you’re





just shopping, and the people that come toward you, a woman moves her purse to the other side of her body. And kind of looks at you. Or, you’re in public, and people stare. Or their face changes. Or you’re walking down the sidewalk and somebody walks to the other side of the street. Just little things can build up over the course of a person’s life to change their heart and change how they think about things. For me, I’m—a lot of it is, I guess, is my parents; having grown up sensitized to the Movement, by children of the Movement, is—I try not to pay a lot of attention to it. For me, it’s not things that happen to myself personally that matter so much. But, when I see things happening to others, that moves me to action—many times, probably, from a ‘playing it safe’ standpoint, for some people’s tastes, overreacted. But it bothers me more to see injustice done to others than injustice done to myself. I think that I’m big enough to handle it. I think that I read enough, and communicate with enough people to understand the process to where if it’s situation that I can physically survive, I’ll be okay. You write a letter, you make a phone call, you talk to who you need to talk to. But, when I see other people, and it’s obvious that they are—their situation, they’re being taken advantage of or harmed in some way; that bothers me more, especially on racial-type issues. Like probably many people, I’ve endured hardship and hurtful things in my life, but probably at the same time without trying it, maybe I have done hurtful things as well. There’s a lot of balance in the universe. I’m thankful to have my health, and my life, and my education—which can never be taken away. To have my family and good friends. So, I take things as they happen. I don’t think you can dwell on racial issues, so to speak. If





somebody lays a hand on you, that’s different. But what somebody says? This is America. You can say anything you want. You don’t have to be smart or nice to say things. We all have endured the pleasant and the unpleasant in the exchange of ideas, if you will.

	C:	Okay. Anything else you want to add?



	W:	I’ll just say it’s an honor to have participated in this interview because of you. I’m really excited about your possibilities and your potential, and the fact that you are interested in oral history in general, and civil rights issues in particular, is extremely hopeful. I think about my time at the University of Florida, and coming here when it was a great thing to see another Black person on campus. That you’d stop, and you’d wave, and you’d say, “Hi.” Like for me, I always talked to all the janitors and the housekeeping personnel, and Physical Plant—working people in general, but Black people in particular, when I walk by I’ll have something to say to somebody. And your interest in this encourages me that maybe there is still some of that around. Because I’ve found that because the numbers have increased, and everything is more Facebook and Twitter, that there’s very little reason, or there seems to be less reason, for African American students to communicate with graduate students or faculty, or even each other.

Just a, “Hey, how are you doing?” kind of thing on the sidewalk. A lot of times, I have people walk right by me. I mean, just the gas face, not change at all. For me, growing up, you would’ve been like, “Hey! I just spoke to you. I said ‘Hi,’” or something. But I wouldn’t even think to do that here now, because just how society has changed. So, I’m so encouraged that you are interested in these





things. I just wish you success as you continue to educate yourself and prepare yourself for financial stability in our economy, whatever’s going on there. I’m just pleased and in a lot of ways taken a back that you have asked me for the interview, and I thank you and wish you well. And I’m just very humbled to sit here and speak with you. So.

	C:	Thank you. Thank you. I feel the same gratitude, if not more, to actually sit here and hear about these things, and your insightful knowledge, and your opinion. I want to thank you for this interview before we stop the recording. This by far has been one of the most insightful—being an African American myself—has been the most insightful one-on-ones I’ve had with anybody on this campus for four years being here. I’m sad that it took four years for it to happen. At the same time, I just want to thank you for your time, and your opinions,you’re your accomplishments.

	W:	Equally. I’m still trying. I’m still working. [Laughter] C:	Thank you so much.

[End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, October 27, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019