AAHP 497; Davis; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 497 Lenard Davis

Interviewed by Ryan Morini, Aliya Miranda, Patrick Daglaris on June 17, 2017 41 minutes | 20 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Davis talks about growing up in High Springs, Florida. He went to Douglass School for his formative years, but graduated from Santa Fe High School. After graduation he went to work on the railroads in High Springs as a foreman.



Keywords: [African American History; High Springs, Florida; Douglas School; A.L Mebane; Santa Fe High School; Skeeters Store]



Standards

1. SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws



AAHP 497

Interviewee: Leonard Davis

Interviewer: Ryan Morini, Aliya Miranda, Patrick Daglaris Date: June 17, 2017



	D:	We caught hell with White folks; that’s all that I can tell you there. They didn’t let you do too much of nothing here. You go to school, you had to start fighting when you leave school after you hit town. Then they started telling the schools, “If you all get out at three,” if the White get out at three, we get out at four.

Because of the fighting going all the way to town. I’ll tell you that part of it. Mmhm. And we fought the devils coming from school, coming from the [inaudible 00:35], something like that every time. They had to run, had to run from White folks, all of that kind of stuff. And now the boys coming along, want to finish up; they’d be standing, waiting there to jump on us, and we had to fight or either run. Sometimes we fight, sometimes we run. It’d be more of them than it was us. We had to run. But if it was about even, we’d be fighting them, man! Police would stop us. Police would want to know who it was. Policeman’s name when I was coming up was [inaudible 1:11]. Cory [inaudible 1:15]. He was the chief of police in High Springs. And he’d stop them. That’s all that I could tell you right there, but it was really something else here at that time for Black people.

	M:	Sounds it. Do you mind if we just introduce the interview, and then kind of talk some more about that?

	D:	Yeah. Well, so far as that, my daddy was a fireman. I come from a railroad family. My daddy worked for the railroad, my brother worked for the railroad, and I did. The rest of them left. I had ten brothers. And when some got grown, they left High Springs. We two stayed. And my brother just left here. He just





moved to Atlanta. He worked for the railroad; see, it was my daddy, my brother, and me. We worked for the railroad. We stayed in High Springs. High Springs was prosperous when the railroad was here. And when the railroads, when they merged with Seaboard Coastline—that’s what it was when I went to it. When I first started with the railroad, it was Atlantic Coastline. Then they merged with the Seaboard Coastline. And I got off on disability. I had that in, six or seven—I had twenty-seven years. And I got off on disability, I ain’t worked no more since. And then they changed it to what it is now; whatever. I don’t know what it is now. I seen it changed from Seaboard Coastline to C&H I think it was. I’m not sure. And then I heard nothing about the railroad too much [inaudible 3:13].

They cut the railroad out here in High Springs. And probably the reason why it’s being dropped, because there wasn’t no work here. No work here to do in High Springs; not too much now. And so, I can tell you about that, now. Most of the peoples now go out of town to work here. Don’t have much work in High Springs. We don’t have that many people here now anymore. The population was big when the railroad was running.

	M:	How much bigger was it?



	D:	Well, the ground is the same thing, but the population of peoples was bigger. Peoples that was on the rail line took different shifts, you know? Like seven to three, eleven to seven; like that. And they had all the shifts was working here. Had Florida trains running here at that time. And when they merged, they wanted to cut out trains that started from coal-burning to diesel. And diesel was putting more trains in, putting more coaches in than the coal-burning was.





They would throw it in the engine; you firing the engine with coal. But when they put the diesel in—you got diesel now. Then they wanted to cut back a lot of mens from working because diesel was pulling more coaches than the coal burners were. Mmhm. It got so they didn’t have nothing coming out of High Springs; just come through here and keep going. They didn’t need no men to cut the rails to [inaudible 5:12] that cut off a bunch of men in [inaudible 5:19], and the population of High Springs went to dropping. Dropping more and more. And that’s all I can tell you about High Springs, now. But High Springs, it was real popular when the railroad was running, but after they cut the railroad out here, the population of High Springs dropped, and it dropped the way it is now. So, that’s the [inaudible 5:47] I can tell you about High Springs, but it was the devil in High Springs when I was a young boy. White folks would treat Black— well, you had do it [inaudible 6:01] if you wanted to get along with them. You had to say “Yes sir,” “No sir,” and all that old junk. And that’s what they expected you to do; if you didn’t do it, they said that you baiting, up to know good. You’s a man, a White little boy, he get about that high and I was talking to him? They wanted me to say “Mr. Tom.” That’s all I can tell you about that, now. And that’s the way that it was back then. Ain’t like it is now! You sitting at the table with me. You sit at the table with me like you doing now? They give you the devil. Them White folks would give you the devil. Sitting with a Black man too much for them. They don’t want the White man to sit down and hold a conversation with a Black man. They say all kind of lies about Black people back in them days. They didn’t have no school that much, and they wasn’t





teaching them nothing. They wasn’t getting no books. They get the books that the White folks had when they had the school. Them White folks be done used them books when we get them. We didn’t get no new books, not when I was a kid. They started later. But when I was kid, we used old books. And they didn’t have no—certain things, they didn’t teach you. They didn’t teach you how to be a college man, they didn’t teach nothing too much. They’d learn how to read and write, arithmetic, but that’s about all they teaching you then when I was coming up. In your history book, wasn’t no Black history in it. All the history was White. Then they didn’t teach me no Black history when I was going to school. I didn’t know what a Black man done. Far as I was taught, old history books, they wasn’t teaching no Black history when I was going to school. You didn’t get no Black history. And you got secondhand books! You didn’t get no new books.

	MO:	Where did you go to school here?



	D:	At Douglass, across town over there, place called Douglass. That’s where I went to school at. And they would have the school there, Douglass there. Then when they go on to another school, they build a school in Alachua called A.L. Mebane. The peoples from High Springs went to high school there. They went to Douglass eighth grade, and then after eighth, from ninth, to finish school they went to A.L. Mebane. They left A.L. Mebane and went to Santa Fe. And that’s where we going to school now. They integrated Santa Fe when Black peoples went over there. Black peoples didn’t go to school where no White folks go—in High Springs and that. They had a school for Black people and a school for White. There wasn’t no—White schools, or Black schools. We had a school





here called Douglass. That’s where I went to school, there, it was Douglass, over across town over there. And they had the school downtown for White peoples to use. Mmhm. And when I was coming up, I got out of high school, I went to playing basketball. Boy, them White boys liked to see me play basketball. And they come over there and they going to play basketball. We didn’t have no gymnasium, we had a clay court. Outdoors, we played outdoors. That’s where we played, outdoors.

	Mi:	Like a courtyard?



	D:	I didn’t understand you.



	Mi:	Was it a courtyard, instead of a gymnasium?



	D:	Yeah, out in the yard? Had a clay court out here like this here. And they fixed it right—it was a basketball court. But it was outdoors; we didn’t play inside. When I was going to school, we didn’t have no gymnasium. They had one of them— didn’t have that in Lake City either; played outside. But they had a tobacco warehouse to fix up for a gymnasium. They’d let us play in that every once in a while there in Lake City, but if they had a tournament or something, they wouldn’t let us play. But all Black peoples didn’t have nothing but outside courts. They had no inside gym back in them days. They stayed in that. They played out there on our ground just like that sand out there. That’s what they—they got that covered now, but it was sand like that, but it was clay over it. And they had clay they’d mark off, and put it in the clay out there outside, have baskets like that. Like that; it wasn’t no inside. You play out there in the cold. If it was raining,





you couldn’t play basketball. I didn’t play no football. They didn’t have football at Douglass at that time.

	Mo:	Okay. They have baseball?



	D:	No, not no baseball. Played a little softball, but not no baseball. I tried playing baseball, right, come out of school and played street baseball. Out on the ground; wasn’t no clay in High Springs. They had a clay court in Gainesville. Didn’t have that in High Springs, Alachua, and nowhere else; everything was “sandlot ball,” they called it, baseball. Mmhm. But I didn’t play no football in school, because it wasn’t no football at Douglass at that time. They had one in Alachua and Gainesville, played football there, but not Douglass.

	Mo:	Just basketball.



	D:	Just basketball. No track running or nothing like that. Just baseball, just playing baseball.

	Mo:	So, can I ask when you were born? D:	June 12th,1927.

	Mo:	1927. And that was here in High Springs, or was it—?



	D:	Yes, sir. I been in High Springs all my life. I lived here all my life. I been living here ninety years.

	Mo:	Wow.



	D:	I’m ninety years old now, and I’ve been living here for ninety years. I been in and out of here. I ain’t never stayed here a whole year of my life. I went other places looking for jobs and couldn’t find none, I would come back here. Then I





go and find one; I didn’t like big cities, and I came back here. Went to work on the railroad.

	Mo:	Can you state your name for the record? D:	Huh?

	Mo:	Your name, could you just state—Lenard Davis, or—?



	D:	Lenard Davis. That’ my real name. That’s what my mom [inaudible 13:02]. And they say how to spell it—some put O-N, and I don’t. I don’t put “O” in my name. My mom told me to spell it L-E-N-A-R-D. And that’s the way I done. Some spell it L-E-N-O-A-R-D. But I spell it L-E-N-A-R-D.

	Mo:	That’s just fine by me. Do you know—were you born at a hospital here?



	D:	No, it wasn’t no hospital. Was a midwife. Mmhm, midwife, wasn’t no hospital. Mo:	Do you know who the midwife was?

	D:	I done forgot now. I did. She did three or four after that, but I think—can’t think of her name now, from back in the woods. Mmhm. All Black peoples didnt find no hospital back in them days. They was all midwives. All midwives—and mostly White. A doctor in town would deliver a White baby for them, but but he charge them money. Most of the White folks, the midwife didn’t charge nothing much, so they had to go through the midwife. All Black folks didn’t have no— every now and then, a doctor would go there if you had some money, now. If you had your money to pay him? But he was higher than the midwife. So, most peoples got midwives back in them days. My momma had ten head of boys and three head of girls. Them midwives stayed with one of them.

	Mo:	Can I ask your parents’ names?





	D:	Albert Davis and Lennie Davis. She was Lennie Cooks before she got married to my daddy.

	Mo:	Lenny Cooks.



	D:	Yeah, that what her name was. All I know was Lennie Davis, but I know she had a brother with Cooks. And that what she was before she married my daddy.

	Mo:	So where were they from? Where were your parents from?



	D:	On the other side of Williston down there, about four miles. Colored place you call “Mybrooks.”

	Mo:	Okay. And both of them were from down there?



	D:	Yeah, both of them from down there. Same town. Little country town. Wasn’t no stores there. Wasn’t nothing there but a post office. And she had a little store in that post office. That the only thing in that town. That was four miles on the other side of Williston down there.

	Mo:	So, your mom had a little store there in the post office?



	D:	No. No, Momma didn’t have no store. A White lady had a little store down there, named Amelia. She name Miss Amelia. And she had a store down there, it was a store and a post office together. That the only store in there when I down there. And my daddy had a brother staying down there [inaudible 16:17] send me down there, they would have him a little bit. He had a farm down there.

	Mo:	So, that was—but did they both grow up in that town?



	D:	Yeah, that what they say. That’s what my momma say. She was from there, and my daddy say he was from there. That’s all I know about that, now; what they





say. I don’t know, because I wasn’t in this world! [Laughter] I was born here in High Springs.

	Mo:	So, what brought them to High Springs?



	D:	Well my daddy came here to work on the railroad. Mo:	Oh, okay. Okay.

	D:	But he hadn’t done nothing but run out there on that farm out there in the woods, out there where he come from. And he had his brother there working, and he told him to come here and he get a job here on the railroad. He go to work in the daytime and knock off in the daytime, and he was making more money than doing farming. So he came up here and, now, I don’t know because I wasn’t born, but I just know what my daddy told me. You understand?

	Mo:	Mmhm.



	D:	You see, he came up here and worked on the railroad; before that he was working a full day ‘til nine at night, and wasn’t making no money. And he said his brother-in-law told him, say he could come up here and get a job working at the railroad. He go to work at seven o’clock in the morning and knock off around six or four. When he was out of daylight. So he come down here, and he come down, and he wanted to be a fireman, so he was hired as a fireman. He was pretty good, and they hired him as a fireman. He worked really hard, and they throwed that coal all day. Bring it back down the road, and back up the road, and stuff like that. They hired him as a fireman; he stayed there for about forty years. He made around forty years as a fireman. When he retired from the railroad, they done put them diesels on. He was running diesel then, didn’t have





no fireman. Of course, now the railroad don’t have no fireman. No, there were only five mens on the train: the engineer, the fireman, the brakeman, flagman, and a conductor. They cut all of them off. Ain’t got none of that now. Ain’t no caboose on a train no more. They took that off when they put that train on. They got the conductor on. Now they got the conductor and engineer, all on there now. They cut the flagman off, the fireman off, and they really cut three of them off. And they got the engineer now, and conductor on the train, nowadays. So they say, now. I haven’t been out there in about thirty-five years, up there. I retired when I was about—I was forty-nine years old when I made my last day on the railroad. I done forgot the month, but I was forty-nine. Mmhm. And I when I left the railroad, I did what I done, maintain track; they didn’t have no Black foreman, assistant foreman, or nothing. And I was the first Black to take the assistant foreman test. I passed it, and I was an assistant foreman when I left in my time. I was main assistant forman, but I didn’t no job as assistant foreman, because all the White fellows, the young fellows, they was ahead of me. And it took me—I would’ve been eighty years old before I got to be a foreman.

Because a lot of them White boys your age and all of that stuff, they all come out there, and then they hired y’all as assistant foreman. And y’all had to get a job before I’d get one. It went by seniority. It didn’t go by how good you are, how well you are. You had to have seniority. If you started—me and you started the same day, and you started at eleven o’clock and I started at twelve, you got more time than me. They had hired you a hour before me, so you could roll me anytime you got ready. If they cut you off from one job, you cut someone else





over me. You would do that. That’s what it was when it went by seniority. They go by who like you, and who like you. If a man like you better than me, he run you off. He couldn’t do nothing to me, though, because you had more seniority than I had. He couldn’t roll you. He couldn’t run you off before me; I had to be cut off before you was, if the company cut off somebody. That’s the way it went, by seniority.

	Mo:	When was it that you took that test? Do you remember that year? D:	Yeah, after they integrated. I forgot that year, what year it was.

	Mo:	Not long after they integrated though? Around that time?



	D:	Well, I knew what I was doing. I can tell you that. I knew what I was doing.



When they were hiring, the young foreman was getting hired, and they didn’t know it so good, and they had to check me to give the—who had the training. He was a supervisor, but we called him “roadmaster.” And he was the roadmaster, but he was the supervisor. And he tell the men what to do, tell the foremens what to do and all that stuff. He come out there one morning, and he had a young boy come in there. And I was around there making ice water and stuff like that for the day. He tell Mikey, “Where Davis?” He say, “He around there making that water for ice today.” He said, “My boy down there should’ve been one.” The roadmaster told me [inaudible 22:53]. He down on the railroad, been out there, working. He said just like that. He say, “Now, if he tell you you doing something wrong, this guy here got to tell you how to do it, because you don’t know what you going out there to do.” So the man went out there, he come out there. We got something there he could help—. He was [inaudible





23:17] four, five different things in the day from one place to the other. We ain’t have one spot to go in. It be kind of a little difficult to put on, and I was trying to show him how to [inaudible 23:32]. He say, “You do like I say do.” I say, “Well, you been told you if you don’t know what you doing, ask me and I’ll tell you.” He say, “I’m your foreman. Been made your foreman.” I say, “Yeah.” I didn’t say nothing. So, we stayed there all day long. We had four or five more places to go! And we stayed there all day, working at that one thing. That morning, we went to go to work, he say “Lenard, y’all got that deal all right?” I say, “No, it ain’t all right. If a big train here on the track caught there, and it started loading, it would kill somebody at that crossing. That derail it or throw it off the track.” He say, “How come he didn’t get it ready?” I say, “Well, I told him it wasn’t right. He told me he was my foreman, just like that.” He say, “I’m your foreman.” I say, “He right. You ain’t my foreman, you is the supervisor. You out there working on mens.” He say, “Well, better go down there and tell West I said come here. And you come back with him.” I come with him. He went in there and tell him, “No sir, that [inaudible 00:24:56] ain’t right.” He say, “I don’t really know whether it’s right or not. Now, you come in here. Now, let me hear what you got to say.” I say, “He told me just like this: he was my foreman, and I have to do like he say, and he right.” He say, “What did I tell you when you went down there? You two may [inaudible 25:21]. If he say something ain’t right, you fix it ‘til you get it like he tell you to fix it, until you learn something.” He say, “Yeah now, let me tell you something: you don’t want to stay out here as a foreman, I’m going run your ass off. But I ain’t going lose my job.” That’s what





he say. And when he done that, he says, “Now, you go on back there and you go on and do what I told you to do yesterday. So you—I ain’t going to tell you about how to do one of them things I told you to do.” He say, “Now, you and your secretary go down there and fix that old deviator. I went down there and fixed it, and he come down there after me. He say, “Got it working?” I say, “Yeah, I did it, Mr. Cranton.” “Did you throw the deviator?” “I throwed the deviator. Throwed it back.” He say, “You sure of that?” I say, “That’s right. I try to get this tightened down like I’m supposed to do, and pull it out a little bit more.” “When you get through, it ain’t going get off the track,” he told me. West came up, he say, “Let me tell you how to do that, Lenard.” I say, “West, you go on and stop looking at me. I’m good. I know what I’m doing. You worked this thing all day yesterday and you didn’t fix it right.” He didn’t say nothing, just keep running the thing. “When the supervisor comes tonight, you watch him good; because next you leave something messed up like that, and he told you not to do it, to fix it,” I say, “you ain’t going have no job here. You going back down. And right there, you won’t be no more foreman. He ain’t say nothing else then. He say, “Well,” he realize this now. “Y’all got something else to do.

Lenard ain’t going with you, he going along with me. I got something else I want him to do.” I went and done what he told me to do, I didn’t have to do nothing the rest of the day but mess around. So, he called him back to his office and told him, he says, “Now looky here: I told you when you first arrived that you can’t test me out. You pay attention to Lenard, ‘til you learn something. When he teach you how to do something, you learn it. Then you can have it. You





going learn something about what you doing out there, and that’s all there is to it.” And that’s what happened. He done like I told him. Then some other man come rolling in, and he didn’t know no more than he did, so it got to be the same way with him. So then, they integrated, and asked me did I want to be a foreman. I told them no! I don’t want to be no foreman. I had about seventeen years then, and I said, “No, I don’t want to be no foreman.” And he [inaudible 28:03] I told him, I’ll take the test. So I took the test. Well, when I give it back to him, he says, “Lenard I don’t think you passed that test that quick.” I say, “Yeah I did. I done the best I could, that’s all I can tell you.” He say, “Well I’ll help you when they come in”—meaning my secretary. I say, “I don’t need no help. If I didn’t pass it, I don’t want to go no further.” And came and wait there when he said for me to come to his office. He said, “Now you the train foreman.” That’s what he told me. “You passed that test. You missed one question.” I said, “Well, I done the best I could.” He say, “Well, you have. I didn’t think you could pass it that quick.” I say, “Well, I did pass it.” I passed it, told me that, “You come in in the morning, you come to work as apprentice foreman.” See, if you the first Black foreman on the railroad, [inaudible 29:00]. Got to be assistant foreman out here on the railroad. I was assistant foreman from then on. And then I got sick, and had to get off it. That’s all I can tell you about that. That’s all I can tell you about me and the railroad and High Springs. I’ve told you everything I’ve ever known about High Springs. High Springs was hell for Black people back in them days, I’ll tell you. Like, y’all going to school together now? They been out here— I’d’ve had to call you Mister as soon as you got that damn beard. Shit! You ain’t





nothing but a young fellow now, both of y’all ain’t that old. Shit, I’d’ve had to say “Mister.” If I don’t say Mister, y’all would’ve said I was biggety. I remember some boys, now, from my time at the railroad; young boys going to school like I was, and they daddy—I was about fifteen years old. And we were working, I was showing them how to do the work, because I’d been there for a while. And they was toward me just like this; they trying to smell me. They say, “You know, I can’t smell you.” I say, “What you trying to smell me for?” He say, “I’m going to tell you what my daddy say. He say, ‘Why y’all don’t like us to call you niggers, when y’all call one another “nigger”’?” I looked at him, I couldn’t tell him—I couldn’t answer that question right then. I looked at him and laughed, I told him—thought about it. I said, “Well.” I thought. I say, “Now I want to know something from y’all: why you call one another ‘poor crackers,’ and you don’t want Black man to call you ‘poor cracker.’” They got mad at me telling them “cracker.” I said “Y’all can’t whoop my ass, not neither one of you.” He says, “That’s one of the worst things, Davis—that’s one of the worst things you ever called me in your damn life, a ‘poor cracker.’ We don’t like for Black people to call us that.” I say, “Well, that’s the way it is when Black people call one another ‘niggas,’ but we don’t want y’all to call us that.” He say, “I can understand that, now.” That’s all they say. And they told me just like this here. They say, “Well, you’s a good fella. I done tried to smell you. We all done tried to smell you.

Yeah, we tried to smell you. You seen I go behind you sniffing, didn’t you?” I



say, “I wasn’t paying y’all no attention. Y’all working today, I’m just showing you how to make the work easier on you.” He say, “Well look here: my daddy told





me a lie about Black peoples. I was ready to hate y’all. My daddy lead me to hate you. If we see one on the road coming to school, say they’re the worst peoples in the world.” He say, “And I’ve found out that you helped us, you helped [inaudible 32:16] is hard. You learned us how to do to it. We ain’t asked you; you showed how how to do everything. And you [inaudible 32:25].” Black people would tells you, too. White people wouldn’t tell us nothing. They’d see us struggling, falling down. He say, “You looked at us and come help us. Show us how to do it.” Show them how the tools work. He say, “Now,” what he say, he say, “Now, when I finish school, I’m leaving High Springs.” Leaving for one reason or another. He say, “I’m going somewhere that I can live all by myself.” And they left here. They left High Springs as soon as they finished school, and don’t come back. From New York, he called; I didn’t know who he was. He’d been in New York about four or five years. He said again, “I’m in New York, Lenard. Come sit down and talk to” him. I say, “Okay Mr. Roland.” He say, “Don’t call me mister. Yeah, you about a year older than me. Don’t call me no mister. You call me Rollie. I say, “Okay, Rollie.” [Inaudible 33:30]. He say, “I never will return to High Springs again in my life. I’ll come to see my daddy and momma; and then as soon as I talk to them a little bit, I’m driving right on back to New York with me and my wife.” And he left. He say he didn’t to stay around them because they lied to him all his life. So he thought that Black peoples was the worst thing in the world, him talking about his daddy. So all four of them left here. They come back, and I’d be walking through town. I didn’t have no car or nothing back in them days. I wasn’t scared of them, I would just—I had to do





like my daddy had told me. My daddy recognized them Black peoples was one of the best things in the world. Because that’s the way he was raised, or like that when he got going. Mmhm. Well, that’s all I can tell y’all about this here High Springs. High Springs. All right? It’s been all right with me for ninety years. I been living here for ninety years. Didn’t nobody kill me, didn’t nobody beat me. Didn’t nobody do nothing to me. But it was rough. Let me tell you something: you had to recognize that Black peoples is real good. And if I’d have said hello to you? They’d’ve killed me back in them days. If I’d’ve said hello to you, and poor White women hear you talking? Them peoples would’ve killed me.

Because they didn’t want me talking to no White woman. They wouldn’t want to see me speak to her. Shit, back in them days, if you speak to a White woman— when I was a boy, now—better not catch you looking at her! [Laughter]. But, them days is over. I ain’t worried about it no more. I’m glad to tell you about High Springs, you understand me? Y’all going clean it, talk it, let somebody hear it if you want. That’s up to you. But that’s the way it was. I’m not telling you no lies. I’m telling you how High Springs was. And not only High Springs; every- damn-where in the South was like that. And most of the time, every city was like that. You know, once it happened on education. That’s when they started integrating, and Black peoples went across to do—they find Black people had as much sense as everyone, once we were taught the same thing. Ain’t no difference in brain. Some is weak and some ain’t. Everybody ain’t smart. Some peoples is smart and some isn’t. You understand me? Back then, Black and White. Not only Black. Some Black people can’t hardly learn how to read, some





White people can’t learn how to read good. That’s all there is to it. And it’s going be that way until the end of the world, ‘til Jesus come again. It’ll change when Jesus come back on this Earth. He’ll say, “Enough of that.” That’s what I say, and that’s what I read in the Bible. See, you go to church all you want. Every day anyone go to church and have hatred in your heart? Jesus’ll tell you quick. The Father say, “Why do you hate me, say you love me?” And I hate you? See, I’m supposed to love you. If I say I hate you, either you telling a lie and a truth because you don’t love me, you ain’t never seen me before. Ain’t never seen God. But you say you love God, but hate me. You telling a lie and a truth, because the Bible don’t tell no lie. Ain’t a lie in the Bible. Peoples just don’t understand it. Everything my Father say, His Son said, in the Book, in that Bible? It’s truthful. It’s truthful. And if you’s ever been as [inaudible 37:40] you say, and you say you hate me on account of my color? I’d say you telling a lie and truth ain’t in there, because you ain’t never seen Him before but you stand up there and tell me you love God. You got to love me, too. I don’t think you have to associate with me. You understand me? That don’t mean you have to associate with me. But you got to have love for me. Which, if you can’t get along with me—can’t imagine nobody going make you go to Hell. I’m going make you go to Hell when you messing with me? And you hate me? No, you don’t hate me. Just don’t associate with me because I’m not your kind. That’s all. Too White people you don’t associate—it’s some White people you don’t associate with, because y’all going to raise hell every time you get together. You understand? When you do that, it’s different. So that’s what I can tell y’all. Ain’t





honestly nobody in this world here I hate. I like you, I like you, I like you. But now, I might not associate you, and associate with him. You understand me? I might not associate—she might not associate with neither one of y’all, and associate with me, and she don’t hate neither one of you. But she along better with me than she do with y’all. That’s the way our life run. That’s the way it run. Mmhm. [Inaudible 39:10]. Well, that’s all that I can tell you. I done told you all I can tell you.

	PD:	I had a question for you. I was wondering if you have any stories about the businesses in High Springs?

	D:	No, I don’t know nothing about these businesses here. PD:	Like Skeet’s Corner?

	D:	Skeet’s Corner, yeah, I remember that. PD:	Can you tell us about that place?

	D:	Well, I don’t know. All I know, she was running and got to be the mayor. That’s all I know. I walked by that place just about every day when I went to school, but I didn’t stop there. I didn’t have no car, and I didn’t stop there. All I know, they called it Skeet’ Corner. She was a White woman, and she’d speak to you. She was nice to me. She never did call me out of my name or nothing. She say, “Hey Davis, how you doing?” But knowing something about her? I don’t. I can’t you nothing about her, I don’t know. I know she was running that filling station for years. When she run to be mayor, she got to be the mayor. That’s all I can tell you about her. I ain’t known nothing about her.

	D:	Towards someone else: Hey Panzie! What’s up, girl? You doing all right? Yeah? You doing good? You looking good. You look like you picking up a little weight, gal! You





ain’t never had none! [Laughter] Yeah. That’s my classmate. Yeah, we went to school together. How old are you now, baby? No, don’t tell me. [Laughter]

	O:	I don’t mind telling it; I love telling it. Because see, it’s by the grace of God that I’m here. Let’s see: eighty-eight years old. Everybody don’t live to be eighty.

	D:	I would’ve said eighty-six; I’m ninety! [Laughter] Yeah, I’m done. I’m done. M:	Well, thank you.

	D:	I done. That’s all I can tell you. I can tell you what I know about. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Kelly Richardson, June 3, 2019 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, July 12, 2019 Final edit by:	Charity Kelly, May 16, 2020