AAHP 698; Lewis; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 698 Reginald Lewis Interviewed by Joe Hartman on June 17, 2019

2 hours 4 minutes | 69 pages



Abstract: Reginald Lewis recalls his early childhood living in Ocala, Florida, and working at Paradise Park, a Black-run nature park featuring freshwater springs. Lewis explains the cultural significance of Paradise Park on the black community locally and nationally, as it was featured in the approved destinations for black segregation-era travelers listed in the green book. Lewis describes his rural upbringing including his experiences fishing and hunting as a child. Lewis emphasizes the influence of his grandfather and stepfather on his outlook on life. He recounts his experience in the military during the Vietnam War and the time he spent in Thailand while in the service. He recounts how he used the training he received in the military to become the first black lineman in Ocala after repeatedly being denied employment due to his race. Then, he describes his later work as a lineman and firefighter with the U.S. Forest Service.



Keywords: [Silver Springs; Ocala; Paradise Park, Atlanta, Thailand, segregation, integration, telephone man, United States Forest Service, Florida, education, war, veteran, lineman, employment discrimination, military, military child, green book



AAHP 698

Interviewee: Reginald Lewis Interviewer: Joe Hartman Date: June 17, 2019

	H:	All right, now I’m going to do a formal introduction. Good morning, my name is Joe Hartman and I am here with Mr. Reginald Lewis at his home in Ocala, Florida on Monday, June 17th, 2019. I have the pleasure this morning to interview Mr. Lewis and ask him to tell us a little bit about his family, his childhood, his education, his career, and his life in Marion county community. This interview is being recorded in order for Mr. Lewis to share it with his family and also for potential inclusion in the collection of oral histories with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida. I should note at this point that Mr.

Lewis and I have known each other for over thirty years and so if it sounds informal while we’re talking that’s because I feel like I am interviewing a friend. So, let me just start with this if you could tell us your full name.

	L:	Reginald Clarence Lewis.



	H:	And where and when were you born?



	L:	July the first, 1946, Ocala Florida at 601 Northwest Washington Street, the front bedroom.

	H:	So not in a hospital, you were born at home with help of a midwife, I’m assuming?

	L:	Yeah, on a stormy Monday and Tuesday, it was just the same. [Laughter] H:	What were your parents names?

L:  My mother name was Lena Lewis—Lena MacNell. My father’s name was Leroy William Vereen. My stepfather’s name was Earsel Leon Lewis. He was a pastor at Bartley Temple in Gainesville.

H:   Okay so at the time that you were born you were—





	L:	Reginald Vereen. Reginald Clarence Vereen. H:	Okay and that was your—

	L:	That was my dad’s name, Vereen.



	H:	That was your dad’s name, okay. And Lewis came from--? L:	From my stepfather.

	H:	From your stepfather, got you. Okay. And what can you tell us about them and your grandparents? Because later on we’ll be talking for sure about your granddad. But what can you tell me about your parents, what were they doing and where were they born?

	L:	I can give you an oral history of my family tree on the Vereen side. All right, I’m the son of Leroy William Vereen, who is the son of Eddy L. Vereen who is the son of Henry Vereen, who is the son of Saunder Vereen, nickname “Sanders,” South Carolina. My great-grandfather was born in North Carolina but moved to the plantation. He was born in 1860 in North Carolina, which they moved to the Seller’s plantation.

	H:	To the?



	L:	To the Seller’s planation off of Seller’s road. H:	Oh out in the Ocala forest?

	L:	In the Ocala forest.



	H:	And that was your great grandfather? L:	That was my great grandfather.

	H:	And moved there from--?



	L:	When he was a slave they moved down to Seller’s planation.





	H:	Oh as a slave. He was brought— L:	As a slave. He was born in 1860.

	H:	And he was brought as a slave to the Seller’s plantation. L:	Right.

	H:	Okay, and so that’s your great grandfather. And how do you spell Vereen? L:	V-E-R-E-E-N. Now, we have another set of Vereens which are in Palatka.

They’re our relatives but it was a teacher from up north said we were spelling our name wrong, so she had them change their name to V-E-R-E-N.

	H:	But yours remained with two Es at the end? L:	With two Es, yes.

	H:	So your great grandfather was on the plantation as a slave on Seller’s road out in the Ocala forest. And what do you know about him and his life?

	L:	All I know is that he was a farmer, and he got the forty acres and a mule. H:	This is right after the Civil War during Reconstruction?

	L:	Yes. And his place was right on the other side of Silver Springs, soon as you crossed the little creek behind Silver Springs, right at the deer ranch. My grandfather said that where the deer ranch in Silver Springs used to be—their cane patch, sugarcane patch, where they would grow sugar cane for syrup, and when you go down the Silver River there is a creek that pulls, is right below Paradise Park, that pulls back to the north and that creek would run past their house going back towards 40.

	H:	So he got forty acres and a mule and settled there and farmed that land, as far as you know?





	L:	That’s what my granddaddy told me.



	H:	And how about your grandmother, what was her background?



	L:	I don’t know much about my grandmother. That was all I knew was about him.



And she was a Crowell, Mary Crowell.



	H:	C-R-O-W-E-L-L?



	L:	Mmhm.



	H:	Somewhere along the line they met, lived together out in the Silver Springs, and then they had how many children?

	L:	They had five kids. H:	Five kids.

	L:	Yeah. Uncle Ralph, he was born in 1893. Then papa was the second oldest, he was born in 1897.

	H:	What was his name? L:	Eddie L. Vereen.

	H:	Eddie L. Vereen.



	L:	And then after him they had one sister—I can’t think of her name—that was in there somewhere. She passed. And then there was Uncle David, David Vereen, he had several kids. And Devee Vereen, who was a teacher at Howard, was his son. He had four or five kids and then there was Uncle Herbert. He was the baby boy. And I think he was born around d1901, or 1905 or somewhere along in there.

	H:	Do you know anything about their lives out there in Silver Springs?





	L:	Only thing I could tell you about it is a few stories that I heard. Well, the one main one—a couple of them really—was right where the five-and-ten-cent store, Woodworth, was. It used to be a lemonade stable.

	H:	This is in Ocala?



	L:	In Ocala. And right off of Magnolia and Broadway, which is now Silver Springs— not Silver Springs, it’s still Broadway. They had a horse sale in there. And my granddaddy wanted to get him a horse. And so what he was in their doing—they were bidding six, seven, eight, and so he had his little fifteen dollars in his pocket. So he went in there and bid at fifteen, and nobody could go that high so they said, “Sold!” And he went up to give them the fifteen dollars for the horse and they guy, the auctioneer said, “No son, this is a hundred and fifty dollars.” Explained to him that they were going just by numbers with the zeroes automatically attached. And he said, “This is all I got, but I’ll pay you in one month.” And the auctioneer said, “We can’t do that, we’ve got to sell it.” And there was an old White guy that was in the back of the group there and he said, “Are you Henry’s son?” And he said, “Yes sir.” He said, “I’ll pay the hundred and fifty for the horse, you just pay me.” And that was the analogy that he used to me is that whenever I wanted to buy something, you know, let my word and my actions be my guide whether people respect and honor me. So that’s what I use and that’s one of the stories. He did pay the money back. And the way they got most of the money was that when the paddle ship Alapaha would come up the river, they would jump off in the bottom to get the nickels and dimes.

	H:	They meaning who?





	L:	The tourists, coming in on the paddle boat, Highwafa and Alapaha and all that.



	H:	These are the ships that come down from Jacksonville and Palatka? Paddle boats?

	L:	Right, come down to Saint Johns to the Alapaha and then to the Silver River. And they would get it and granddaddy said that they would get more money getting the nickels and dimes in one day then my great grandfather would make all week.

	H:	Getting more money doing what again?



	L:	Diving off—getting the nickels and dimes off the bottom of the river. H:	So people would throw coins into the river—

	L:	And the water was so clear that you actually could see them go down to the bottom and pick up the—

	H:	Basically entertaining the tourists by diving for the money.



	L:	And the Silver River was real clear back then. It was clear when I was a kid. But when they put Rodman Dam in, that blocked all the fish that would come up to breathe in that clear water. And a lot of places where you got all the scum and everything now would be where they would clean out the springs and that’s where they would lay their eggs, around the springs. The mullet was in there like a big grey ball there was so many. But anyway, that’s where my granddaddy paid for his horse, him and his brothers got together and paid for the horse. And they had that to plow the field, I guess.

	H:	And where did they live? They lived on their forty acres— L:	They lived on that forty acres.





	H:	Did you ever see the house that they lived in?



	L:	No, all I know is that when I was a kid he showed me a couple blocks—not concrete blocks but pillars—where the old house stood.

	H:	Okay so by the time you came along that house was already gone? L:	It was already gone, it was a part of Silver Springs then.

	H:	okay, well how did that happen? In other words, he had his forty acres, what happened to his forty acres?

	L:	That I don’t know.



	H:	Don’t know what happened. Where was he living at the time? L:	On that forty acres.

	H:	No but I mean after he left there?



	L:	Oh, my grandfather? What had happened was my grandfather by him being the—I’m not gonna say the smartest child—but they sold, either my grandfather or my great-grandfather, I don’t know how they got back into Ocala, I don’t know that part of the history. All I know is that my grandfather had quite a bit of property through my great granddad scattered around Silver Springs that they sold and each one of them bought then a place in Ocala.

	H:	So all of that family land was in Silver Springs, they sold that— L:	And moved to Ocala.

	H:	Everybody in the family moved to Ocala. And where did your dad grow up then? L:	My dad grew up right off of Martin Luther King.

	H:	So he grew up in Ocala. In other words, he was not out there.





	L:	No, all the kids were born. Papa had five kids and they were all born right there on Martin Luther King.

	H:	Okay, okay.



	L:	When you go down Martin Luther King there like you’re going north off of Silver Springs boulevard, that first house, the grey house. It’s boarded up now. The way the will was stipulated is supposedly went on down through the generations but one of my aunts had Alzheimer’s and her caretaker manipulated her into writing everything over to her and her family. And the house now, since she changed the will, is all messed up. I wanted to buy it when I first retired but they didn’t want to sell it to me. And for the price that I paid for this little house would have been double what they wanted.

	H:	So, what did your parents do when you were growing up? What did they do for a living?

	L:	My mother, she married my stepfather when I was three years old. We lived with my grandfather on the corner of what is 6th Terrance and 1st Street, which back then was Washington Street and Chestnut Street. And the house is still there, and my grandfather was a painter and my stepfather right after, he worked in the fields and he worked at Seminole Feed Store. And he went in the army in 1950 and retired in [19]71.

	H:	And he stayed in the military then?



	L:	He stayed in the military. And my mother, we just travelled all over wherever he went.

	H:	So, you were what they call a military brat? You were—





	L:	Oh yeah, I was a military brat. I really appreciated that because I got a chance to see the world and see everything.

	H:	So I’m going to have to ask a question—we’ll get into Silver Springs, I guess then, because I have a—I’m looking right now at an ink blotter from the old days with a picture of you as a young child. And it says, “No wonder I’m smiling, I’ve seen Silver Springs from the glass bottom boats at Florida’s Paradise Park.” And I’ll let the folks know that I also have a copy in front of me of “Remembering Paradise Park” written by Lou Vickers and Cynthia Wilson-Graham which has a number of statements about you growing up and working for your grandfather at Silver Springs. So before you started travelling, is that when you were working at Silver Springs?

	L:	Well I worked through it all from the time I was three or four years old until I was eighteen, when I went in the military.

	H:	So I thought your family was travelling around, did you stay in Ocala then? L:	Off and on.

	H:	Okay.



	L:	Like, my father, he would go to Korea, so mom and I would come home. H:	And stay with your—

	L:	With my granddad.



	H:	And it was during those times, perhaps when your father was stationed overseas or far away—

	L:	Okay that was made while he was doing to Korean War. I was four years old when they made that picture. And he didn’t even know nothing about it. And he





said that there was this new guy moved into his outfit and he found out my dad was from Ocala and he said, “Do you know this place?” And my dad looked at it and got made because nobody told him about it and he got on the radio and called back chewing everyone out. And we didn’t know nothing about it. Me and my mama didn’t know nothing about it either. All I know is they just showed up, being a little kid I didn’t pay no attention to it.

	H:	So what I think I’m hearing is not only did you move around a lot but you would come back and forth to Ocala?

	L:	Yes.



	H:	So before we talk about Silver Springs, tell me about going to school. Where did you go to school and obviously around a million different places? I wonder how many different school’s you’ve been in?

	L:	I started kindergarten here in Ocala. I went to first grade in Oklahoma, and I came back to Ocala, finished up, started second grade, finished second grade in Colorado Springs. Third grade I started third grade, come back to Madison street, finished up third grade in Madison street. Went to the fourth grade on Madison Street. Fifth grade, Madison Street. Went to Washington state, they found out that I came from a low—well, a segregated school, and the education thing wasn’t up to their specs, so they put me back a grade. And I went through sixth grade in Tacoma, Washington. At Fort Lewis, DuPoint Junior High.

	H:	And that was your first integrated school then it sounds like?



	L:	No, my first integrated school was in Colorado. That’s the first time I ever lived in an integrated neighborhood. And then I came back to Howard because I wanted





to finish school where my dad was. Because my mom and dad were going overseas. And my dad went overseas when I got in the eleventh grade, the summer of my tenth-grade year my mom decided she wanted to go to Germany and so they sat me down and said, “We’re going to leave the house with you, we’re going to pay the bills.” Well, you know back then my dad said, “Don’t make me have to come back here.” You know? Which meant if I got in trouble he was going to come back and destroy me. I’ll tell you a story right quick, my uncle had a funeral when I was fifty-two years old and I got so many whoopings from my dad that my dad—he had a belt that he had from way back when—and he pulled that belt off at the age of fifty-two I had a flashback and fell on the floor. [Laughter] But anyway, so that’s the way he was; he was a disciplinarian. But anyway, I wound up joining the church and everything. And so I went on through high school—

	H:	Living on your own then? And how about brothers or sisters? L:	I never had a brother or sister. I had stepsisters.

	H:	Did they live with you then in that house? L:	No. Just me.

	H:	They did not, okay. So they left and you finished high school living in your parents house alone? With the admonition that you better behave or dad would come home—

	L:	Well mom had set up with Mrs. Cristabell and Mrs. Elsie is that if anything was wrong we had signals that I used with the curtains that you would pull down back in the day. And if I pulled the curtain a certain point and pull the draw curtains a





certain point then Mrs. Elsie in the side of the house would know whether to come over my house or just come on in and do whatever she’s gonna do. And Mrs. Cristabell had the curtains on the back of the house that she would watch. Whenever anybody came over to the house I had to turn the side light on, on the side part of the house there so that they would know I had company. And that’s the way it was.

	H:	So they kind of watched over you? L:	They watched over me.

	H:	So you’re going to school, while you’re in Ocala anyhow, in segregated schools, and spending time just on the weekends or the summer in Silver Springs or Paradise Park?

	L:	Weekends, summers, or anytime they would have a special day. Now my junior and senior year, back then they had DCT, which was diversify cooperative education, where you go to work a half a day. And I had enough credit hours to where I could go, I could do that, and I would go to work.

	H:	And how would you get out there?



	L:	I had an unusual childhood. I had two cars. H:	as a teenager?

	L:	Yeah, as a teenager. My dad bought me a whiskey run out of North Carolina which I was supposed to sell.

	H:	What did you call it?



	L:	It was a whisky run. You used to haul moonshine in the cart, out of North Carolina.





	H:	So this is a car that had been used to run moonshine?



	L:	Yeah, he was stationed up at Fort Bragg then and he knew one of the guys in his outfit’s family was out there and they were always trying to get a car for me. So they had the car and then they had to sell it, but I didn’t know that I was supposed to sell the car. So when I got the car—this is no joke—the highway patrolman followed me from Fayetteville to the South Carolina line, the South Carolina line to the Georgia line, and then when I hit Baldwin Florida a highway patrolman picked me up and followed me all the way to my house in Ocala. And when I got home and I was taking my girlfriend to the movie, I come back out there and there’s these two big ole White guys sitting on my car. I was scared but I didn’t know what. We got to talking and they laid out, I think it was eight- hundred dollars for the car. And dad only paid a hundred and twenty-five for it.

And I didn’t sell it, they got mad, dad called me up, chewed me out for not selling the car because he didn’t tell me that I was supposed to sell the car. That was my first car, I wasn’t gonna get rid of my first car. So then I roll along and then my girlfriend wrote my dad to tell him that she’s tired of riding in that raggedy car, I need another car. And so he just bought me a [inaudible].

	H:	This is still while you’re in high school?



	L:	Yeah. So, I had two cars, a house by myself. He paid all the—the light bill and all the bills for the house and gave me an allowance so I had it different than everybody else.

	H:	Living on your own, it sounds like, with a vehicle, you were at a segregated high school?





	L:	Mmhm.



	H:	What was that like moving from integrated schools back to segregated schools?



Do you remember what your feelings were about that at the time?



	L:	Oh yeah. It was rough. Well, see, I’m left-handed, and back then they didn’t like—they didn’t want no kids writing left-handed, it was sort of like a curse. So when you were writing left-handed teachers would hit you across your knuckles with a ruler so that you would write with your right hand. But I could never do that. And my writing today is pitiful; I can’t write at all. And so when I went to the school up north, the teachers they had where they would memograph all your homework and everything, you know, and write the stuff. Down here, they would start on the blackboard writing out your lesson, and they would go all the way around the room. And then when they get back to the first board, usually I would just be getting to the third board, they would erase it and then write the rest of it. I had a girlfriend then and she would write out the rest of my homework for me because I couldn’t do it. That was in the seventh grade.

	H:	But that didn’t have anything to do with integration or segregation, right? That was just a different style?

	L:	That was a different style.



	H:	What about just segregation and integration? In other words, you went to White schools where in those White school did you feel like you were treated equally--?

	L:	Yeah I was. See I’m the type of person, always have been, by me growing up out at Paradise Park was to get along with everybody, whether they were White or Black. And that’s the way I was brought up. And—





	H:	And that worked for you? L:	It worked for me.

	H:	And so you came back to segregated schools, do you remember having any thoughts about, “Is this right? Is this wrong?” Or you just accepted it?

	L:	I just accepted the way it was.



	H:	You just accepted the way it was.



	L:	I still go along with the analogy that Ronald Reagan had said where he said fifty years ago that we didn’t know we had a racial problem. Which we didn’t. I mean, the people that were in college and everything else. But everybody else on the lower end, we knew that we didn’t go to those places or we couldn’t go to those places or we didn’t want to go to those places. You know, it’s just like at the football game when Howard was playing, all the Blacks, we had a section for the White people. Club Valet, Mitch Valley, James Brown, Ray Charles—all them— came here. But they had a balcony section for the White people. But that’s the way it was in the south.

	H:	And, basically, because of your positive, open attitude—accepting things the way they were—that was not a problem for you?

	L:	Unh-uh. Never has been. Plus, too with my parents, they always talked to me like I was a man. Not as a child. They would, at the age of seven, my mother bought me a health book about the human body. And if you tell me something and I go there and ask about it she would automatically open the book up and lay it there for me. If I couldn’t read it, I couldn’t read it. But if I could read it I read it. I was





fortunate in that point in life where everything was open as far as questions, ideas, thoughts.

	H:	When folks started protesting and demonstrating about Civil Rights— L:	I couldn’t protest.

	H:	Couldn’t meaning?



	L:	My granddaddy wouldn’t let me.



	H:	Okay. He did not agree with that or just did not feel that was safe for you? What was his thinking at the time?

	L:	Well, his thing was when they started protesting the place to work and not to eat, it was okay. But he wasn’t letting me protest because he said I was too mean.

	H:	What did he mean?



	L:	I ain’t gonna let nobody hit me. [Laughter]



	H:	He was afraid if you protested you’d be in trouble? L:	I would get in trouble.

	H:	You’d get in trouble, so he was trying to just keep you safe? L:	Right.

	H:	And you were living on your own, but your grandfather was kind of like a father figure is what it sounds like?

	L:	Both of my grandfathers. They were my heroes, they were the ones that I looked to. Anything that they did, I’d emulate. Anyway that they would act.

	H:	Now when you say both your grandfathers you mean? L:	My mother’s father and my grandfather.

	H:	And your natural dad’s father was a Vereen?





	L:	Now my mother’s father he was a painter in Ocala. He painted the Mayor Barker’s house all the way up until he passed. And that was in [19]95. 1995 when he passed. He painted it from that time all the way to—

	H:	This is the house down in Apalaha? L:	In Apalaha, mmhm.

	H:	So he was a housepainter?



	L:	Yeah, he was a housepainter and at one point he was the oldest and the best in Ocala. He’d just walk up and tell people what they’re going to pay and they’d just say “Yeah” and he’d just turn and walk off.

	H:	He had that kind of reputation? L:	Yeah, that reputation.

	H:	And they knew they would get a fair price?



	L:	Yeah. Both my granddaddies, that’s all they believe in, being fair. And they didn’t try to cheat nobody, and they’d bend their backs for anybody. So that’s why I got in the habit, why I am the way I am. It’s just the way they talk to people. It was like my granddaddy, the one I was talking about that painted, Granddaddy Clarence, I remember going on jobs with him and it could be a plumbing job, carpentry job, or whatever, but he wouldn’t ever say “I would do it this way,” to the White man. He would always say, “I may be wrong, but I would do it this way.” Behind everything. And I asked about it one day, I said, “Granddaddy why do you always tell the man you may be wrong? He know you know?” He said, “But that’s just respect for him as a White man.” You know, that’s the way he was brought up so that’s the way he continued all the way up to his time.





H:   He was careful in all his interactions, I guess, not to offend and to show respect? L:  Right.

H:  So most of the work sounds like you worked some construction, you helped out with the grandparents, but you’d also worked at Silver Springs. What did you do at Silver Springs?

	L:	Well, I started out at four years old pulling a little red wagon and picking up bottles and papers with my granddaddy. Fifty cents a week and all the hamburgers and hot dogs.

	H:	And this was at Paradise Park? L:	Paradise Park.

	H:	Okay, so you never actually worked at the main springs?



	L:	No, I never did. I was hired by silver springs when I got in eleventh grade for the purposes of taxes and stuff like that for school. But all my time was down at Silver Springs.

	H:	You mean Paradise Park? L:	Yeah, Paradise Park.

	H:	So you would sell things, you pick up things— L:	Yeah, I worked in a concession stand.

	H:	What would you do there at the concession stand?



	L:	Well, I’d keep the drink machines full, all the jars of candies, I would keep them full. And first thing in the morning, lot of times we’d have buses coming in at six or seven o’ clock—from New York, let’s say, going to Miami. And it could be four





or five o’clock, dark. But they’d know that they could get breakfast at Paradise Park at that time because they were in the green book.

	H:	And the green book meaning what?



	L:	The black book for travelling with the green book that—do you remember recently, in that movie the Green Book?

	H:	I have not seen that so.



	L:	Oh, you haven’t? Anyway, it was a book for Blacks that navigated—it would tell them where they could go and eat and stay on their trips in the south. What houses and motels and stuff that they could go stay in.

	H:	So it was a travel atlas for African Americans because they, obviously, couldn’t go to places that other folks could go?

	L:	Could you do me a favor? Don’t use African American. Because I’m not African American, I’m an American Black of African descent.

	H:	Okay.



	L:	There is a difference. I don’t owe my allegiance to Africa. H:	Okay.

	L:	So you just call me Black. H:	Okay.

	L:	I’m sorry.



	H:	No, no. That’s interesting in and of itself because that’s a request I’ve never received and like your grandfather would always try to approach people and show respect, what I want to do is show respect. I guess my question is, just for me personally, is that something that’s unique to you?





	L:	There’s a lot of people that feel that but they don’t say it.



	H:	So right now, in your mind and in those people’s minds, the best term would be Black, which is what we used before we used African American as a matter of fact.

L:   Now you got all the young kids now they want to be called African. But most of the people my age would rather be called Black. And you’ve got some that like, they want to go along with the crew. But I’m not like that.

H:  It sounds like what you’re saying is it’s safe to use the word Black in any context but African American—

	L:	Yeah, if you’re speaking to a younger person go and throw it in there but most of the people my age now are just like me. Some would tell you, most of the educated people, that’s what they want to be called.

	H:	Is--?



	L:	African American.



	H:	African American, okay.



	L:	Because see we didn’t really fall into that term until Thurgood Marshall, when he retired he wanted to be called African American. And that’s when everybody flowed to it.

	H:	And I can’t even remember when the term colored went out of the vernacular. L:	Well, see, colored is the only name we gave ourself. Every other name, even

African American, the White man gave it to us. I prefer to be called colored than I do to be called African American.

	H:	And when was the last time you heard the word colored?





	L:	It’s been a while.



	H:	That’s what I was thinking. L:	Yeah.

	H:	Anyhow, we got off track but I think that’s important to share because clearly you grew up in totally different circumstances and situations than I did and—

	L:	Well see I was raised up not to follow but to think.



	H:	And let me ask you right there—you were raised up—when you look at who your role models were, obviously your grandfather was one, sounds like your father with his belt was also a guide of some sort.

	L:	He was a guide, yes.



	H:	He was a guide. But in terms of your belief system and your values where do you think you got those?

	L:	I got them from all of them really. Just about everybody, even Mr. Ray. Out at silver springs. I can’t think of the guy—White guy that used to run the jungle cruise—he taught me more about segregation than anybody did.

	H:	What did he teach you?



	L:	It all started when we was on the jungle cruise. At the end of the jungle cruise I had stacked all of the—when the jungle cruise went down my job was to take literature from Paradise Park and stack it on the front of the jungle cruise. When they embarked they could pick it up.

	H:	This is to take home and share with other folks to promote the park?



	L:	And he said, “Well, you can take all of them with you.” Because I was the last trip. And I said, “Why?” And he sat down and explained to me the difference





between White and Black, little bit about slavery and stuff like that. And told me why I got to say “Yes sir” and “No sir” to the White people, stuff like that. You just took it all for granted and then from that point all the stuff that I had heard and stuff I started organizing in the reality of why we do things, why things is. And you see pictures of in the movies of slaves and stuff like that but you going by what the movies state than you think that you’re a number-two citizen or something like that. If you are a citizen. And I knew about the Tuskegee Airmen, I knew Joe Lewis and the other fighter, the German guy that he beat.

	H:	Schmeling? Max Schmeling?



	L:	Yeah, I knew all that because my parents and my grandparents would sit down sometimes and just start rambling and talking to me. And I’d just sit there and listen.

	H:	And what they were trying to do, I guess is like any other parents, they knew that there were forces and limitations and rules and customs and they were trying to make your life—

	L:	As easy as possible.



	H:	--as easy and be the best person you could be within your limitations or within whatever prescribed things that were in your way. Just like a parent would do with a daughter who might not have, back in the olden days, as many privileges as a son and those kind of things.

	L:	Right.



	H:	So you looked to your parents, your grandparents, Mr. Ray at Silver Springs, the jungle cruise guy at Silver Springs.





	L:	Cheatem was his name. H:	Cheatem.

	L:	Yeah, Leon Cheatem, I think is his son. He just retired from Silver Springs a few years ago. I think that was his name. Mr. Cheatem is there when you turn by Walmart to go on Paradise Park road, that little house on the corner by baseline road, that was Mr. Cheatem’s house. I think his son Leon lives across the street.

	H:	And so even though you were working at Paradise Park you still had connections with Mr. Ray, how was that? Because he was mostly at Silver Springs, right ?

	L:	Well as I got older, I swam all the time as a lifeguard. So then one day he come down and it was bottles on the bottom of the water—they had pop bottles back then—and he asked my granddaddy could he just borrow me to get a few bottles off the bottom. So got down in there, went down about thirty feet, and he said, “Can you get that bottle?” So I said, “Yes sir,” so I bail off—

	H:	This is out in the main spring?



	L:	Yeah. And I bail off the side of the boat and went down to the bottom, got the bottles, and came up so we went up to the springs and came down the springs and everywhere they saw pop bottles, that’s what I’d do. And then I got paid pretty good, almost two dollars an hour just for doing that. And at that time I was making a dollar twenty-five.

	H:	I was about to say, both of those are good money back then.



	L:	Well it was because my father in law, he come in one day bragging about he got a raise. And I said, “How much you get a raise for?” And he said, “I got a raise from sixty-five cents to eighty-five cents.” Like a dummy. I said, “That ain’t no





money!” He said, “How much you making?” And I said, “Well, I made a dollar twenty-five.” And he said, “Why don’t you let me do your job and you do my job?” And I said, “You can’t do my job.” [Laughter]

	H:	So growing up you were working from age four on—Would you get paid back then as well?

	L:	Well back then at four I got fifty cent a week.



	H:	And was that your money or did you give that to your parents? L:	That was my money. No, that was my money.

	H:	You were actually earning money as a four-year-old? L:	Right.

	H:	And all the money that you earned, did you ever have to contribute to the family or how did that work?

	L:	No, I never did. I kept all my money. Believe it or not SunTrust Bank of Silver Springs was all commercial, Elvis Presley filmed a movie there. And when granddad would come in with his I’d put my little twenty-five cent in savings.

	H:	Oh you actually had a savings account back then?



	L:	I had a saving account. All the way up through high school I had a savings account, and he made sure I put money in savings, made sure I put money in church and that I could spend the rest on whatever. I never had to buy anything, my parents would buy me five shirts, five pair of pants, pair of tennis shoes, and a pair of shoes. Every year. And anything else I had to buy. Because I had my little change.





	H:	I’m thinking—just trying to put myself in your situation, Silver Springs particularly with your fact on a blotter, that in a way you must have been a celebrity among your friends. Was that true or not?

	L:	No, I wasn’t a celebrity among my friends.



	H:	What did they think of you working out there at Silver Springs and Paradise Park as a young child?

	L:	Well they just thought I had it made really.



	H:	Oh, okay that’s what I meant. Not as a celebrity like a superstar but they thought you had a pretty special life.

	L:	Yeah, I had it made. One thing too is that I made sure that—all Blacks, you would have to pay thirty-five cents to go swimming. But none of my friends paid thirty- five cents. I remember when I first met Maggie there was nine of them plus the grandmamma, so that’s about thirteen to fourteen people. She comes down and sodas were seven cents for the drinks. So she comes down with all this change and stuff to get for her brothers and sisters. So, I took all the money, gave her all the stuff, and gave her the same change back. So she got in school and we were in class and she said, “That’s a dumb boy, he can’t count.” And she told the girls what happened. And the girls told her, “You’re the dummy, you don’t know what’s going on!” [Laughter]

	H:	So you worked at the booth where they would pay for admissions, and it sounds like you did all kinds of jobs—

	L:	If it was nobody in—let’s say Mrs. Montgomery or somebody had to take a break for lunch or something—I’d go work the gift shop. If somebody needs to sell





swimming suits, baskets—we had baskets where the people would come in if they wanted to rent a bathing suit or stuff you would get a basket and a towel for—I think it was—fifteen cent. And then you go put it back, come to get your key with a number on it and stuff. Then I would go over in the concession stand, which my job was to make sure the drink machines was up, I checked all the jars to make sure they had the right amount of candy in there. Then sometimes I would look in the till, if it had a whole bunch of ones and no nickels and dimes, I would go over and get the change and make sure that’s correct. If my grandmother needs some more hamburgers to be thrown on the grill I’d wash my hands and throw the hamburgers on the grill, and that’s it. And after I’d do all that, then I would go out and get me a crate and on the dance floor, pick all the bottles up on the dance floor, take them around back. And the front part of the building and the dance floor was where we had to keep straight. No paper, no bottles. If you hear a bottle break—BAM! Everything stopped, we’d go out there on that concrete floor and get the glass up. That was the main thing, because a lot of people be out there dancing barefooted. And so we made sure that that was done and that everything was clean. I’d go out there with a bucket of Lysol and DDT, wipe off all the tables. You go to any table out there in Paradise Park, you wouldn’t see an ant on the table.

	H:	Wiped down with DDT. Wow.



	L:	Yeah the best part about the whole thing was people would come into Paradise Park—women, especially—and they would get the lunch baskets, paper bags, cardboard box, and set it on any table, put their purse on it, and forget about it.





Go anywhere they want on the park and come back—three or four hours—that purse is still there. Nobody never stole nothing, no fights.

	H:	Isn’t that interesting? In the green book about Paradise Park, I’m almost mesmerized about what it must have felt like for a Black to be—this is almost like heave. In other words, it was your place and not only was it your place for those of you who lived in the area, for Ocala. But it was known around the world. Not just Silver Springs but Paradise Park itself. You mentioned earlier about busloads of folks coming from New York to Miami, stopping by. Celebrities stopping by, I guess, performing there.

	L:	No they didn’t perform there. They would perform in Club Valet. H:	In Ocala.

	L:	In Ocala. Then they would come out to Paradise Park and usually they’d come out during the middle of the week. On a Tuesday, mainly, because that really was always a slow day. And they’d get a boat ride, granddaddy would make sure they got a boat ride and fishing during their whatever. And they would sit around and some of them went to go swimming and some of them just relaxed.

	H:	Who are some of the people you remember coming through?



	L:	I remember James Brown came down one time; he was way off. And Ray Charles. Otis Redding. It was quite a few, I just can’t think of them by name. It was mainly the Black entertainers. But then Lawrence Bridges was filming movies down there in the swimming area. Rock Hudson made a film down in the swimming area and back in the woods that led to a big lagoon back in there where they made him and Claudia COD-en-ALL-ay.





	H:	What do you remember about the Tarzan movies because I was reading last night that they—

	L:	The only thing that I could tell you about the Tarzan movies is I jumped out of that tree Johnny Weissmuller jumped off and I did it one time. And no more.

	H:	So this is of course before your time out there? L:	Before my time.

	H:	And you remember hearing stories about it? L:	I remember—

	H:	But Sea Hunt was different?



	L:	Yeah I was there with Sea Hunt. My problem was—like folks say—I was yellow. They liked the dark skin kids on Sea Hunt when they would put them in the boat like they do in the movie down in the Caribbean. They’d do it down at Silver Springs, and they’d always get dark skin kids, lot of my friends were in the movies in Sea Hunt.

	H:	I don’t remember that about Sea Hunt. Sea Hunt was supposed to have been filmed where?

	L:	Let’s say they were doing a scene in the Caribbean, down in South America or whatever.

	H:	And they would use local Blacks—



	L:	They would put local Blacks out of Silver Springs.



	H:	And because of the lightness of your skin, you were never selected? Okay.



	L:	Just like the movie in Carriage—I think its Carriage CAP-you-TEEN or something—with Rock Hudson, Claudia COD-en-ALL-ay, they wanted a boy on





a mule. All he had to say was “His name Jim.” He asked the kid what was his mule’s name, and he was supposed to say, “His name Jim.” But I was too yellow.

	H:	So at some point—and I guess it was after ABC took over and about the time of integration hit silver springs—things changed significantly. And Paradise Park, were you working there at that very time?

	L:	When Paradise Falls went out, it went out for economic reasons. Because the Blacks were—what they’d do is they’d come in, and since they could go right to Silver Springs, they’d go right to Silver Springs. And where they would pay three and four dollars for a boat ticket, then they’d find out—they’d go back up north, and then the other people come down and find out they could pay a dollar

twenty-five for a boat ticket at Paradise Park, they’d come down to Paradise Park since they’re riding in the same boats and everything else. And they just stayed down there because the atmosphere was more to their liking. Everything was clean, flowers everywhere, picnic tables, and everything else. They’d go around to the springs; they’d go to the major attractions. See, at one point at Paradise Park Ross Allan had set up down there, Mr. Glover, Mr. Williams, one of my cousins, had ran the wrong side of the park, milking the snakes and the alligators and the whole works. And so when they moved, opened up for segregation and everything, economic reasons, they moved everything from there back up there. My grandfather retired in [19]66 and Mrs. Montgomery and Mrs. Theresa Smith ran it until [19]68. But they couldn’t handle it like my grandfather.

	H:	And you’re saying a lot of the locals preferred at the point, because of integration—





	L:	Not the locals.



	H:	Not the locals.



	L:	Not the locals.



	H:	The locals still wanted to go to Paradise Park, the out-of-towners, the out-of- staters—

	L:	Right, especially the people from up north. I remember this Nigerian came—I was twelve years old—an American Black paid for him to come to the United States—this was in [19]63—to go to school in New York. I think it was either—

	H:	Who was this again?



	L:	It was a Nigerian. I think it was Harry Bell LaFonte, the one that did a whole lot of funding money over there in [19]63 to bring the Africans over. So he came down with a bunch of—he was the only Black with all the Whites that came down from New York on a bus tour. And they brought him the Paradise Park, and the White people went over to Silver Springs. And he went and Mrs. Montgomery and them tried to talk to him, they couldn’t talk to him. So they told me to go out and talk to him. And I tried to talk to him but he low-rated the American Blacks so bad that I started crying. And it gave me a different attitude towards Africans since then. And that’s just the way it was. And so he wanted to go around where the Whites were, but he couldn’t.

	H:	Because this was [19]63 before the integration? L:	Before the integration.

	H:	So not only could he not go where the Whites were, he put down— L:	The Blacks. Mmhm.





	H:	Hard to make sense out of that.



	L:	Yeah, we had more than what he ever had.



	H:	But anyhow so your grandfather left, and it was a combination of factors. One, the popularity of the springs for the out-of-state Blacks, economic reasons—

	L:	Economic reasons, taking care of two places.



	H:	Taking care of two places. And what I get, the feeling I get from the book was sort of a mixture of feelings that perhaps it’s a blessing that we have integration and maybe we’re going to start having equal opportunities but we’re losing something really special.

	L:	We lost a lot of special stuff. It wasn’t just that.



	H:	I hear the same thing about the segregated schools, that there was something special about being in schools where everybody was treated the same as opposed to—

	L:	Well the one thing about it, the Black schools, the teachers had more control over the kids. There was no kids talking back to no teachers. There was no kids threatening no teachers., Teacher tells you to go get a haircut, you go get a haircut. No if’s and’s or but’s about it, you go get a haircut. That’s the way it was there. And if you could remember, Maggie used to plat a lot of the kid’s hair, kid’s that come in from—back then it wasn’t like that—when a child comes from anywhere to that school they were always neat and clean. Their parents made them neat and clean. The parents is the factor in everything that a child does. If their parents isn’t very aggressive in the kid’s learning, nor the way their parents is, you couldn’t do nothing with it as a teacher. You know, they let a little kid start





out at four and five years old talking back to the parents, hitting on their parents. When they get to the school, y’all couldn’t do nothing with them.

	H:	And what you’re saying is in the Black schools when segregation was there that was not a problem, there was discipline from the teachers and it was understood that kids needed to behave.

	L:	Right.



	H:	As a kid, I guess the impression I get from the book—both from Paradise Park and from the segregated schools—that there was a comradery, there was a celebratory, “This is our school, this is our park, this is our—” in other words, the identity of “we are special and even though we may not be able to do some of these other things, it was pretty special to be a part of both a Black school and a Black park, a Black community. And when integration came, some of that was lost because all of a sudden you were in the minority where you had been in the majority--

	L:	Minority and majority didn’t figure the newspapers put all that together. Bussing, bussing wasn’t there to achieve integration. Bussing was set up where they would put the kids in different schools that way the money would be distributed equally. Not to integrate, just to bring the money to the different schools. When they bring White kids over the White parents are more apt to be with their kids, check on their kids, donate money to different causes, PTA and everything else. But most Blacks didn’t have the money to do that. So when I came along if a teacher came to your house that was World War II. Mama knew something was wrong, because most of the programs around town, church programs, different





little clubs and stuff like that that the parents were a part of. If that teacher was a part of that club, she’d automatically know who your child was. It’s like right now I can walk around town and people would look at me and tell I’m a Vereen. They don’t ask me the question. And they’d let me put my straw hat on and the first thing they’d say, “You Pete’s son, ain’t you?” You know? So that’s the way it was back then, everybody knew you. When I was a young kid I used to get up at four in the morning and I would walk down to my granddaddy’s farm. He had rented some land down south and I would talk all through the woods going there. And when I come up on the house, White or Black, I just tell her who my granddaddy was and if I had any animals on my belt I’d tell her I’d hang them on the clothesline.

	H:	If you had any animals on your belt—



	L:	You know if I shot a ‘coon or ‘possum or something like—a rabbit—I’d leave them on the clothesline. Sometimes we’d go back by, the people would clean them and keep them.

	H:	I’m gonna stop you right there because you have just entered a world that I don’t know. Hunting and catching or shooting animals and hanging them on your belt—tell me about, when did you first learn how to hunt, who taught you how to hunt, and what was that all about?

	L:	My grandparents taught me. I got my first rifle right back there now. That I had, single shot .22. And I would go out, I was a pretty good shot, go out there with a flashlight and I’d just walk the trails, really.

	H:	At what age?





	L:	By eight years old is the earliest I can remember. H:	Going out hunting on your own?

	L:	Yeah.



	H:	And so, take me on a hunting adventure. You go out—What time at night you leave?

	L:	I tell mama what time I’m gonna get up. Usually I tried to get up right at first light, but if it’s dark I just, if I tell her I’m going down to grandaddy’s I’d take off and go and some of the people that houses I’d past would let mama know when they come to town that I was by the house. It was always checks and balances in the Black community on what you do. And then if I saw an animal I would shoot it—

	H:	And where—is this out in the woods somewhere?



	L:	I’d see eyes in the top of a tree it’s either a ‘coon or a ‘possum. H:	So this is where again?

	L:	In the woods going south. When you go over 7th avenue, let’s say Pine, then right behind Pine on the other side of the railroad track is 7th avenue. You go back in there and work your way around to Shady Road.

	H:	So you go on your own with a rifle as a young kid. L:	Yeah, walk about ten miles.

	H:	Walk ten miles, you see something, you shoot it, and then what? You hang it on your belt?

	L:	I’d hang it on my belt. H:	How would you do that?





	L:	With a string, shoelace, cord string, tac string. Just tie it on there and keep walking.

	H:	So I’m trying to picture this, you come back from a day of hunting, how many—



	L:	I would get down their and granddaddy would bring me back. He would probably go down there and I’d go to Mama Jana’s house and spend the day with her.

	H:	And how many animals might you have on your belt? L:	About four or five. That’s about it. Most I ever had.

	H:	You know I’ve never even seen a picture of—it makes all kinds of sense.



	L:	About like a Beverly Hillbilly. [Laughter] Mama used to take me down to the—Mr. Davis had a, at highway 40, at the bridge, before they put the big bridge, I used to go back in there in the woods behind his place and fish when I was about eight years old.

	H:	So we’re still on the hunting adventure. You come back and you’ve got four or five animals on your belt, then what do you do?

	L:	I clean them if I get those to the house. When you get too many, I’d just stop off at somebody’s house and give it to them. But then if I got four or five I’d just clean them.

	H:	Where would you clean them.



	L:	Right there at Mama Jana’s house. Put a nial on the tree, I just take it and slap the ‘coon’s legs up there and I had a knife too and I’d clean ‘em and gut ‘em and we’d put ‘em on ice. If she got ice we’d put ‘em in an ice box and then we’d take ‘em back up to the house and my mother would go ahead on and prep ‘em—we called it muscle—take the sweat glands out, that’s all the muscle paths. And then





she’d cook it. Because she always told me, “What you want to eat? Bring it, I’ll cook it.” So that’s what I did.

	H:	You hunt and where would you fish? L:	Silver Springs.

	H:	Okay.



	L:	But see Silver Springs, you weren’t allowed to fish in it. But then the—I guess my granddaddy and all his brothers, and it was five or six more older guys, they could fish there because they were born on the river.

H:  Okay so you would drive with your granddad and whoever else was working out there every morning and then come back with them later on in the afternoon. So you’d bring fish back from there but the other animals you’d hunt here in town. In Ocala.

L:   I’d be in the woods here, going south, to Shady Grove. H:  Right, right.

	L:	But that was my granddaddy Clarence. He was a painter; he was a part-time farmer. He raised hogs down in that 484 and 475. And then at Silver Springs I’d go—a lot of times during the summer months I would hitchhike with the Puckwood guys, the logging trucks. I’d catch them out to Paradise Park and then I would fish and do everything. I remember, one day out in the park granddaddy wanted a bass and I said, “Okay, I’ll go get you one.” I think I was about twelve. And I went out their and swam out to the float and got me a little bit of brim with some bread and I tied the fishing line around my toe, my big toe. And





I was sitting over on the river side of the raft, and just put my foot back and forth—

	H:	No fishing pole? Just your toe?



	L:	Just my toe hanging down and a three-foot line. And just about the time I got a bite, Mr. Cheatem come up with the jungle cruise. And he saw me with the string, trying to keep my face up with my foot going around in the water like that. [Laughter] He pulled the boat up so close that the people couldn’t see the fish under there and he said, “How you doing Reggie?’ I said, “I’m doing alright.” He said, “What you doing?” I said, “I’m just enjoying myself.” He just kept asking me questions and he said, “Well I’m gonna go, you just tell Eddie that I’ll call him.” And so when he pulled off I mean blood was coming out of my toe. I reached down and pulled the bass up and beat his head on the side of the float, more or less knocked him out, and I swimmed over to the bank and I went to the pumphouse to clean the fish and get it up to granddaddy. And granddaddy said, “You messed up didn’t you?” And I said, “Yes sir.” [Laughter] So when lunchtime came Mr. Cheatem came down and got his fish sandwich.

	H:	Isn’t that something? L:	Yeah. [Laughter]

	H:	And you didn’t get to—you never did get a bite out of that fish did you? L:	Oh, I got me a piece.

	H:	Oh you did, okay. [Laughter]



	L:	I got me a piece. He was a big one, it wasn’t not small one, it was a big one. H:	So sometime in the [19]60s you graduate from high school in what, [19]65?





	L:	[19]65.



	H:	[19]65. Your granddaddy retired in [19]60— L:	[19]66.

	H:	[19]66. Was that the end of your Silver Springs experience then too? L:	As far as going out there, working out there, yeah.

	H:	That’s what I meant. And Paradise Park closed, what, a year or two later? L:	[19]68.

	H:	[19]68, and so after that you were just like everybody else just going out and visiting. What was it like to visit Silver Springs having worked and spent so much time at Paradise Park and what was it like being—

	L:	The one thing I noticed about Silver Springs was it wasn’t as clean as Paradise Park. The flowerbeds wasn’t as clean. We didn’t have as many as they had.

Well, I had interacted with White people beforehand but then I noticed the change in America as far as everything becoming personal. And people they just started getting filthy. I started noticing that. When I got over there, I was picking up stuff that people was throwing down and I noticed that it just got to be a full thing. America had changed from that point.

	H:	How were you treated as a Black during those early years? Did you notice any discrimination or prejudice while you were there?

	L:	Well prejudice at first. See, I was the first Black telephone man here in Marian County.

	H:	I was going to ask you to go on. So you—





	L:	So, by being up north and being from the south, I got to see both avenues about people. And by working at Paradise Park I learned how to treat people. Because everybody usually has—whether you Black or White—usually has a little prejudice in them anyway. And it depends on how that person is approached with the way they’re gonna treat you. So that was the best part about my growing up.

	H:	So you’re saying whatever discrimination you felt at Silver Springs as opposed to Paradise Park, because you being who you were, it didn’t affect you the way it may have affected other people?

	L:	No, it didn’t.



	H:	Well let’s skip ahead. So you graduated from high school in [19]65— L:	Right. Went in the Air Force.

	H:	Went in the Air Force, okay. L:	And then—

	H:	Served how many years in the Air Force? L:	Four years in the Air Force.

	H:	And where were you stationed?



	L:	I was stationed in California at Vanderburg Air Force base north of Santa Barbara.

	H:	And never went to Vietnam?



	L:	Well, I suppose—I volunteered three times for Vietnam since I was the only son, they wouldn’t send me. So then I got orders for Thailand. When I got to Travis Air Force base my orders were changed to Vietnam. And then when I got to





Vietnam they already had filled that order for another telephone man so I went over on my original order to Thailand.

	H:	So at that point you were already a telephone—were you trained to do the telephone as part of the military.

	L:	Yeah.



	H:	Okay that was my—alright. What, if any, discrimination did you feel in the military? Being Black.

	L:	I didn’t feel none. Not any. I was always—except my dad sent me down and he told me that when I was a little kid, “The world is your stage. You are the main actor. However you want to be treated, that’s the way you act.” And that’s the way I’ve always been.

	H:	So that was not a problem at all. So you came back from your service experience as a trained lineman?

	L:	Right.



	H:	And you said earlier you were the first Black lineman in—So you came back from the service to Ocala, and that was--?

	L:	Well, I had come back from the service to Ocala and applied at the phone company. And they wouldn’t hire me. So, I’d already put in for a job in Atlanta at Business Electronics, and I worked at Business Electronics for Mr. Wigley.

	H:	In Atlanta? So, you moved to Atlanta. In other words, that was your first place after you came back right?





	L:	First job after the service. So then after I was working I would come back and apply for a job, come back apply for a job. And that was my grandfather’s biggest wish that I did. So that’s what I did.

	H:	And you knew at that time that there were no other Blacks working for that company, but you knew you had the training and the expertise, so you kept apply.

	L:	Yeah, they had Mr. Herald Coin, he worked in the phone shop, cleaning the phones and working on them. And James Meryl was working in the yard as a yardman. And Joy Hamilton was working in the warehouse. That was the only three Blacks that was working there, but they never had a man working outside plant or inside plant. And so it just so happened one day I was sitting down and this guy—I was living at almost like a commune. You had one queen bee and a bunch of little workers in a big ole house complex. So when I was there he called me and he said, “You know they’re starting up the urban league.” I didn’t know nothing about the urban league at the time. And so we were sitting in there listening to the whole conversation, then it got down for about a week or two they started talking about, “We need a test case somewhere.” And then the guy that took me over there he said, “Well Reggie’s trying to go back home to Ocala to get a job but they won’t hire him.” But they got all my qualifications and everything sent to the telephone company to find out what does a guy have to be to get a job there and everything. I met all the qualifications, so then they sent me back down. And what I had to do was come down, apply for the job, go through the interviews, and then come back and tell them. Each time I did I would go all





the way through the interviews and they would tell me they don’t need me. And then—

	H:	So you were confident, they were confident, the reason that you were not hired is because you were Black? But they would go through the motions of doing the interviews but if they didn’t need you or whatever they would turn you down?

	L:	They needed me but they wouldn’t hire me. H:	Right. But that’s what they told you—

	L:	Because it just so happened Mr. Coin, I went by his house one day, and he had seen me down at the main office, the one on Broadway there. And he asked me what was I doing and I said I was applying for a job. He said, “Well, they hired two guys. Frank Roberts and--” I can’t think of the other boy’s name, “—John Perkins.” Yeah, they were White boys. And neither one of them had phone training. So they told me that they had hired somebody, so then I carried that information back and they sent that information back to ‘em about—

	H:	And this was back, you say, to the Urban League in Atlanta?



	L:	Yeah, I did. I went up there every Monday after I got back, gave them information.

	H:	And for them this was literally a test case. They knew exactly what they were doing and methodically they were trying to prove discrimination.

	L:	So then I got the job.



	H:	How did that happen? Do you know what went on behind the scenes?



	L:	I never knew what went on behind the scenes, they just told me what they did. H:	And all of a sudden you were hired?





	L:	I come down and I got a call and they told me—they had called my wife and my wife was staying with my mother right off of Martin Luther King and 7th Street— and so they told her that I had the job and I could come down and come on in. So that’s what I did, I went in. And then when I went in I had to go to the warehouse which is, when you cross 14th and Magnolia, right up on the bridge you can see the telephone—I had to go there. And they gave me a pair of climbing hooks and a belt and told me I had to go climb the pole out front. So I went out front, they said, “No the one in the back.” So I went to the back and got ready to climb the pole, there was the President, Max Wetstein, Mr. Door, which was the person— Lester Steel, which was the general manager, and Luther Deeds, which was the manager of the warehouse, watching me climb the pole. So since I couldn’t climb a pole that well—climbed five in the military and fell off five—I couldn’t climb well. So instead of giving me top pay, instead of two twenty-five an hour, they gave me two dollars an hour. But then a White boy come in from the military, couldn’t even put a screw in the wall, they gave him top pay. But that didn’t bother me at all, I had my job. That’s the only thing I worried about.

	H:	And how were you treated otherwise? Obviously they—



	L:	My first day on the job when I got there, they took me out by the trash can and told me, you know, they didn’t want to work with me,

	H:	They meaning who, the bosses or the other workers? L:	The other workers.

	H:	The other workers.





	L:	Yeah. They had assigned me to a crew, and at first, they assigned me to old Floyd, and Floyd said “No I don’t want that nigger on my crew.”

	H:	So he used a racial slur in front of you?



	L:	Well see, back then it wasn’t no slur. It was just the way it was. I get upset when people say that. Anyway, you can head on but that’s the way it was. So I went on to the next crew and he told me, said, well, he didn’t want to work with me but he had to work with me or he’d lose his job. He said, “there’s three guys already on the crew, can’t but three people sit in the cab.” So I had to ride in the back of the truck. I said, “It’s no problem.” I’d rather have rode in the back of the truck anyway so—I liked to read, I got my book, got in the back of the truck, and we rolled to Williston. And as soon as we got to Williston, they told me, said I had to sit in the truck while they go into the restaurant and if I go into the restaurant it’s gonna be a fight and they ain’t gonna help me fight. And I said, “Well I got my lunch here.” My wife always fixed extra sandwiches and stuff, so I just got my sandwich and drunk my coke.

	H:	Because at that point restaurants were still segregated?



	L:	Everything was still segregated, especially in Williston. And so we went out to the job and then they were telling the boss man I couldn’t do this, I couldn’t do that.

He come out there one day and I was sitting down under a tree eating my sandwich while they were going to lunch, and he asked, “Where is everybody?” I said, “They gone to lunch.” He said, “Why you here?” I told him what they told me. And so when we got in, he called me in his office, and he said, “well when you go out there tomorrow, when they go to lunch and come back you take





everything off the truck they need to work with and then you go to lunch.” I did that one day and I just didn’t like it. You know, going over to the barbeque stand and getting me a bite to eat. Barbeque was good and everything but I’m a working person. Anything to make the job go by quicker where I can get through quicker, that’s the way I was. So I just stayed there, ate my lunch, got back up and worked. That’s what I did.

	H:	And I guess I’m trying to put myself in your situation, these guys, some of them didn’t want to work with you, some of them were forced to work with you. Had nothing to do with who you are, just had to do with the color of your skin.

	L:	Right, they didn’t know me.



	H:	And how did that over time did that change or did y9ou always feel that?



	L:	Oh it changed right quick. Because the only thing—See a lot of people go by stereotypes, what they heard. It’s just like the men back in the day you’d always see the old Black man leaning on the shovel. Okay, he’s leaning on that shovel for two reasons: one reason, he’s through with his work. Another reason, he’s waiting for the boss man to come tell him what to do. So if he go and do more than what the boss man told him to do then he is an uppity nigger, he loses his job. If he tells the boss man what needs to be done then he’s an uppity nigger. He loses his job. So what he does, he’ll finish his job and he’ll sit right there with his head on a shovel. Looking. I’m not saying that all of them were that way, but the majority of them were that way. Now, you’ve got lazy people on both sides.

	H:	So the folks that you worked with, how did that fit your situation?



	L:	Well how did it fit my situation? They found out I’d go and do the job.





	H:	And so in that sense you were a team getting the job done? L:	That was my only objective.

	H:	And how about personal relationships with those folks? Did that change or did you always feel--?

	L:	Well I played on the telephone softball team, I went fishing with a couple guys. I had one old guy, he was prejudiced but he liked me. And we’d go fishing. And sometimes he’ll come by the house, he’ll bring gophers for Maggie and watermelons for Maggie when she was pregnant. And when she got pregnant, I mean all the guys would bring stuff. And when Maggie had the baby they all rushed up to the hospital to see the baby. It was more like one big happy family as time went along. But the only thing that you had, you had management would always put a spur in a relationship, the way things going, that cuases problems.

	H:	What would management do? What kinds of things did they do?



	L:	Well you know, it’s like at one point nobody wanted to work call-out overtime.



Call-out you would work from eight to five and from five to eight the next morning you would be on call. Nobody wanted to do it, so I took it Labor Day, because nobody wanted to do it Labor Day. So then nobody wanted to do it, so I said I’ll just stay on it until somebody take it. So I went from Labor Day to New Years day and the boss man told them that I had made X amount of dollars, which was more than the guy that was in the upper scale. So then everybody started taking it. But then I couldn’t get back on it no more. If I got called out, they checked me every half hour to see whether or not I was finished, whether I was still doing it.

But they woulnd’t call nobody else. I’ve gone out after hours to help guys put up





wire or poles and stuff and never get a call to see how they were doing or nothing. But every time I went out I got called to see so that I wouldn’t charge no extra time.

	H:	So in a way you were harassed, is what it sounds like. L:	I guess you could use that word.

	H:	But your relationships with your coworkers—management was never good, it sounds like, but with your coworkers it was okay.

	L:	Coworkers it was alright. But you had a few guys that were trying to make a name for themselves. The way it was was, if you wanted to do something, all you had to do was put your thumb on Reggie. We had this thing, it was a slip, if you go to a job and the job was incomplete or you needed to change something and you didn’t have something on the truck you wrote what they called a P-65., And you would turn that in with your work order. So I went to this job and all I had was heavy copper wire and I just ran it along the base of the trail and tied it in. And turned by P-65 in with my report. This young boy come in and he went straight to the main office, had the wire all balled up and slammed it on the man’s table, “This is what Reggie put on the thing and he don’t know how to do it, he shouldn’t be here,” blah-blah-blah. Like that, you know. And they asked me about it, I said, “Well I don’t know what he talking about. There’s a P-65 stapled to the report anyway ain’t it?” Say, “Yeah.” I say, “What does the P-65 say? It shouldn’t be number 6 wire,” you know, “Or number fourteen wire.” And all that needed to be changed. That’s all it said. So I said, “Why y’all asking me about it?” Then they weren’t—instead of getting on the other boy, they got on me. I was sent out to





326 and Anthony Road in there, right on that corner over there across from the Stavola Place, there was a boy had open wire and he had, he got a crease on the line and stuff like that, it was raining. And the boy went out there and didn’t do nothing. So then when the commission complaint came down I had went out the next day and got all the limbs and everything off the line. It was raining, got all the limbs and everything off the line, cleaned it up, sprayed it down with WD40, and I called the old man out, told him what I did, and went on about my business. So when the commission complaint came out, supervisor came and got me because my name was the last one on it, took me to the man and told the man how they were gonna discipline me and everything else. And got to them and said, “He was the one fixing the line, that other guy that was there before him didn’t fix it.” Little things like that.

	H:	Was that a racial thing you think then? Probably?



	L:	It could have been, I don’t know. I never look at nothing as race.



	H:	Well, it’s just fair or unfair whether its because of race or whatever. When you started, what year would that have been?

	L:	[19]69.



	H:	[19]69. At that point, everything was integrated in terms of bathrooms and water fountains and all that stuff. So formally everything that you had to deal with was behind the scenes. The laws were being followed but whether there was discrimination and prejudice, that’s easy enough to hide, what it sounds like.

	L:	Yeah. And mainly it was from higher up. I don’t even think my supervisor, because I had one supervisor come out one day and he told me, he said, “I’ve





got to write you up.” I said, “Write me up for what?” He said, “Ordering.” I said, “I wasn’t the one on the order.” It was around Christmas time and a car had knocked a pole down and the people were out of service. And so instead of sending me out they send these other two loaders out there that was doing—see when it was time to make a lot of money, they wouldn’t send me. They’d send the other guys. When it was time to make overtime, it was always the other guys, never was me. So, when I got there right before Christmas, they had knocked a pole down, it was across the road, so what I did was I throw the wire, another wire, up into the tree. Tie it to the wire coming from across the street, from their house, tied it onto that, pulled it over, and I had pulled it up where it was out of the thing and then it was just hanging down where the box was. And put me a little box down there and splashed it in there and went about my business. So when the thing came down, the praises and everything came down, the two boys that were original said they couldn’t do nothing with it. They got no praise. Same thing happened in the lottery. So a lot fo things, I never seek praises I just went on and did the job, Because granddaddy said, “Time is money. If you head on, do the job and get through with it, you can do another job.” And that’s the way I always worked.

	H:	So then at some point you started working for the forest service as a fire fighter?



	L:	Yeah. I got fired from the phone company in [19]85, I put my application in in [19]85. They didn’t have another opening until [19]94. And Gary Beachem called me at my house at eight o’ clock that night and asked me if I wanted to come work for him.





	H:	This is with the Forest Service?



	L:	Mmhmm. And he had kept the application that whole time. Matter of fact, when he did find it, he backdated my application so that I met the timeframe to do that.

	H:	And what was that—any racial things come into play in that job at all?



	L:	Well when I first went there, down in Ocala there was a couple guys that were still from the old school, you know.

	H:	Were you the first Black within—



	L:	No I wasn’t. Irving Harvey was down there first. They had a couple of other Blacks that didn’t make the cut. And Irving he was down there then. Matter of fact, he retired about ten years ago. And I saw him, Mr. Beachem passed a few months ago and I saw him at the funeral. Because I asked Mr. Beachem one time, after I was in Jacksonville I come by and sit down and talk with him. I said, “Well Gary, why you never let me go out west to fight fires and stuff?” He wouldn’t send me to none of the schools or tell me about them. And he said “You’re too dependable. Too reliable.” When he would go out back down at Howard Station in Candler, by me being a telephone man I put a phone up in a tower. And when he would go he would come down by the tower and tell me where he was going and what he was doing. A lot of the other guys didn’t even know. And when they had problems in Gainesville where the main office is for our area, they would call to my tower if the phones were out or the radio was out. And then I would tell the guys what to do. So we kept everything going.

	H:	So you were a prized employee and that’s why he didn’t want to lose you? L:	More or less.





	H:	So that was a good experience then, your time in the Forest Service.



	L:	Yeah, there’s a couple of us there that had the same problem in Jacksonville. A lot of people just didn’t realize why nobody ever booked me. But the reason they didn’t book me is because if you call me in the middle of the night and tell me you want me to do something, I’m gonna do it. That’s the way I was raised. But you don’t have that now.

	H:	I want to go back—I don’t know what your situation is— L:	I’m retired, you ain’t! [Laughter]

	H:	Well I’m retired, I’m not getting paid for this if that’s what you’re talking about. I think I’m going through this, I’m gonna go over here. I meant to ask this of a lot of folks, just to get an idea for historical perspective. These are short answer questions. And yours go back to age four, so you already gave me early childhood stuff. First childhood memory?

	L:	At Paradise Park?



	H:	Any childhood memory.



	L:	Most of the ones that stand out to me was when I was three, my mother—she was dating my stepfather then—and there’s two of them really. We were going to church, I’d go to church first, and my mother told my stepfather, “Don’t you whoop my child.” And he said, “Okay, I’ll whoop you then.” [Laughter] So that went on for about two weeks and we were sitting up at Hopewell Church, and I did something, and Daddy reached passed me and got mama by the hair. And mama said, “You better whoop your son.” [Laughter]

	H:	That’s funny.





	L:	And another one, out at Paradise Park, I could swim at an early age. And there was a raft out there. So my mom and stepdaddy was talking—he was very particular about me, you know—and I was—I don’t know if you remember when Sherie was a little child—

	H:	No she was older when I met her. She was already in high school.



	L:	Oh, okay. She was small and petite and I was small and petite. And so as soon we crossed the road at Paradise Park coming off the hill, I took off running. And he was right behind me. And I hit that water, and when I hit that water and went under the water, I could swim from the shoreline to the float on the water at three. Because I was out there all the time. And we had a float, and dad was running up and down the walkway and everything looking for me and looking for me. Then, after a while, I think it was either Tim Bundy, I can’t remember who was the lifeguard at that time. It could have Tim Bundy. And asked what was wrong and he said he was looking for me, he went in the water out there and he hollered, “Reggie come out from under that float!” [Laughter] I come down out from under the float, swim all the way over—you’ll see the picture in there and the float is in the water and then you, right where Mrs. Donaldson is underwater with the sign, that’s where the ladder was going up on the dock. And oh man!

	H:	You were hiding under there.



	L:	I was hiding under there. Mama knew where I was, she was just laughing.



	H:	That’s funny. First time you remember playing baseball or football or basketball?



	L:	Well, the one I remember when I was about six years old in Oklahoma, I was big for my age then, country boy. And I was playing with the eighth graders and it





was almost like an honor to be picked first or second. So they picked me and I was playing and a big boy was running and I tackled him, but anyway, his shoe hit my eyebrows and tore all my eyebrows off. And I go on and run down and I went home and dad saw me and panicked. And I’ll never forget, he snatched off that belt and when he swung, he swung and the buckle hit me, hit me up here. And I was bleeding on one side and all this had got where the buckle hit me and tore the skin open. Oh, he had a heart attack. I tell him, “I’m alright, I’m alright, I’m alright,” you know, like that. And I was trying to calm him down because he was freaking out then. Mom came over and got it and pinched it up and put a couple stitches—

	H:	Oh she stitched it herself?



	L:	Yeah, and then put a Band-Aid on it. Most of the time, she did all the work on me anyway back then. But we used to play stick-ball with doll’s heads and stuff.

	H:	Oh, with doll’s heads? L:	Yeah.

	H:	I’ve never heard of that one.



	L:	You know them old rubber dolls? H:	Yeah.

	L:	Yeah I used to play stick-ball with them. We used to get baseballs because the Red Socks used to train right there at Garrett Field. So then they used to leave and go straight down the road, passed by my house. And if they had any old gloves and stuff they’d always throw it to me and stuff because I was always





friendly with them, stuff like that. Always talking to them and everything, I wasn’t scared of nobody.

	H:	So you’d go to practices or games or?



	L:	No, I’m not a baseball fan. I’d just get the balls and we’d be throwing them out there in the yard or in the road, playing stick-ball or something.

	H:	Hmm, so they just tossed stuff to you? L:	Yeah.

	H:	First pet? Or did you not have any pets as a kid?



	L:	Yeah, I had pets. The one that I remember mainly was Lady, she was a Cocker Spaniel and she was mean as I don’t know what.

	H:	Where was this? Was that here in Ocala or--?



	L:	No, this was in Washington State. I had a bunch of dogs and cats along with me.



Most likely back then the neighborhood dogs were your friend. They were the ones that watched over you and made sure—

	H:	When you say neighborhood dogs, that belong to other people or just lived in the neighborhood.

	L:	Just belonged to other people. H:	Okay.

	L:	And if the kids in that house walked to the store, and you with them, they wouldn’t let nobody bother you. They sit there and wait on the curb for you to come back. Sometimes, they wait at the schoolhouse waiting for you to walk you home, stuff like that. That was it, I had a bunch of mongrels.





	H:	And the dog that you remember that was yours, the cocker spaniel, was not a great dog then?

	L:	She was for me, now. [Laughter] She was alright with me, but she just didn’t like anybody else.

	H:	Got you. First radio? Or television.



	L:	Aw, shoot. My first radio, it’s out there in the shed out there. It was my granddaddy’s, he had the big one with all the knobs and the tubes and stuff. He got it from Post Office tire service, it had closed down and what I remember was Hank Williams. After I heard the voice, I found out who he was. It was Hank Williams. The little chair I got in there now Mama would put the pillow in and put it backwards with me in there and that’s what I would hear. I was a little baby, and when I got older and heard Hank Williams I knew who it was that was in my mind.

	H:	From listening to him as a child?



	L:	As a child. The first TV I think we got when I was eight years old. Dad, he was going to Korea, he asked me what I wanted, and I told him I wanted a TV. And he got a TV. The TV was there and we had the only TV, I guess, in a big radius because every Wednesday night all the men would be at the house to watch the Wednesday night fight.

	H:	Oh Wednesday night fights, not the Friday night fights? I don’t remember the Wednesday night fights.

	L:	And mama and I, we slept in the living room on the convertible couch—it wasn’t a convertible couch then, it was a regular coach. Mama slept on the coach and I





slept with granddaddy in the front room. And mama would have to go in granddaddy’s room and we’d sleep in there and they stood out there and watched the fights. Until—the last fight was at about eleven, then everybody’d go home.

	H:	What shows would you watch when you got that first television, do you remember? And I wonder where they would be broadcast out of, Jacksonville?

	L:	Jacksonville. Channel Four, probably the Burns and Ally, Jack Benny, I remember they had the Sullivan Show, I don’t remember when it actually came on. But the Today Show, I can’t think of anything else.

	H:	Favorite song growing up?



	L:	Geez. Heck! I really didn’t have no favorites until I got in high school. H:	Okay. How about favorite book?

	L:	My favorite book? Anything by Jules Verne.



	H:	Ah, science fiction. What do you remember reading and when was that?



	L:	Aw, shoot I think that was probably about the fourth grade. I remember Twenty Thousand Leagues Under—

	H:	Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea.



	L:	Off on a Planet. There was another one there—



	H:	So, you were a reader as a child, you liked to read? L:	Mmhmm.

	H:	Okay.



	L:	Superman, I had the original Superman book. Believe it or not. H:	Comic book or?





	L:	Yeah.



	H:	Wow.



	L:	I had the original Superman book. H:	How did you get that?

	L:	My cousin Henry, Henry Jones. That’d be another person you ought to talk to.



He’s the oldest one in the family right now that’s in Ocala. I had all the Spiderman books from [19]60 to [19]65. Every issue. I had Elastic Man, Elourn, Gate Man, Blackhawk, anything that was science fiction I had.

	H:	Wow. Most of these other ones you’ve already told me—times you’ve gotten a whippin’, time you caught a fish, first time you rode a bike?

	L:	That was with my cousin Cynthia. She had a bike and she was trying to teach me how to ride a bike so I had to tell her everywhere we went until I learned how to ride a bicycle by myself. I think I was about four, four or five.

	H:	Pretty young then, okay.



	L:	I didn’t tell you about my first fish. H:	No, tell me about your first fish.

	L:	My granddaddy liked to eat the little small fish. My grandmama liked big fish. So I think I was seven, and I was down on the swimming dock, and I had caught a small fish. And I snatched it, and when I snatched it, it came out of the water on the other side of the dock. And as soon as it hit the water, the bass got it and took off. So I went up to my granddaddy, crying and everything, he asked me what was wrong, I told him. And he said, “Just let it sit in the fish mouth for a little while.” So, an hour later, I’m sitting on the dock and he comes down asking me





what’s wrong. I said, “That fish got my fish.” He said, “Well, pull it.” And when he said “pull it,” off the dock I went.

	H:	He pulled you right in?



	L:	Pulled me right off, it was in a canal, a shallow canal. And he said, “Well, pull it out!” and I said “you gotta!” And he said “Pull it out!” So I got it and got it over on my shoulder and I walked up the bank and everything, pulled it back down. I walked up the bank and I got out and I pulled it out and it was a big bass.

	H:	No kidding.



	L:	It was a big bass.



	H:	With a brim inside his mouth?



	L:	Yeah, the brim was there. I used to swim on the dock and shoot my bow-and- arrow. I had put a reel on my bow and I’d shoot the arrow up in the air and down in catfish hotel, and I got a catfish just about every time.

	H:	Really?



	L:	Yeah.



	H:	So, you had a bow and arrow at what age?



	L:	Oh, I had a bow and arrow, shoot, starting out at, let’s see, eight? Somewhere along in there.

	H:	And it was a real bow-and-arrow? Because the only ones I remember from childhood were like toys.

	L:	It was real. My daddy bought it off of the Cherokees somewhere. I don’t know where he got it from, but it was a Cherokee bow.

	H:	Who taught you how to use that?





L:   Me.



H:   You learned on your own?



	L:	Well, you know, back then in the country we would tie inner tube rubber—they used to make the inner tubes out of red rubber. And the red rubber was strong than the black rubber, so if you got a red rubber inner tube you cut your strips off and hid it. And that was like gold. So we would take the rubber and put it down and tie a piece of wire around in the middle where you gon’ put your arrow. And you get you a stick and bend it the way you want it and let it dry, then when you take it loose, that’s all you had to do to do it. And then you’d take dog fennel or cane, reed cane, and put bottle caps on it. And that’d be your arrow.

	H:	So you made both the bow and the arrow completely on your own? Isn’t that interesting. And successfully—

L:  Shot animals, mainly rabbits. Rabbits was easy to kill. Slingshot, same thing with the red rubber. And we’d go to by the garages and stuff and get the ball bearings and get them—

H:  Oh, use the ball bearings to shoot? L:  Yeah.

H:   Oh, okay. For the slingshot, yeah.



	L:	And marbles. I had my first BB gun at four. [Laughter] My stepdad, even today we’re just like brothers.

H:   Even today? So he’s still alive?



	L:	Yeah he’s eighty-nine day-before-yesterday. He was up there one day and he said, “Come on up here.” And I said, “Yes sir.” I was in Jacksonville, and I said,





“What you want?” He had took the ladder and laid the ladder on a tree. I said, “What you want?” He said, “I’m gon’ go up that tree and cut the limb and I want you to hold the ladder.” I said, “Dad, what part you don’t understand? Your son is on Social Security!” [Laughter] And the ladder was out over the powerline, he said, “You know how to do it!” I said, “No Dad,” I said, “You come down!” Oh, he started cussin’. He started cussin’, he cussed me out the whole day about me being lazy and sorry.

		H:		That’s something. He’s gonna climb that thing and— L:	He was gonna climb up there and cut it.

	H:	Wow.



	L:	I told him, I said, “You know what? He said, “What?” I said, “I wish they had retroactive child abuse so I could put your butt in jail!” [Laughter]

	H:	So you and he are buddies at this point? L:	We’ve always been buddies.

	H:	That’s nice.



	L:	I mean, even when he was tearing my butt up. And when I joined the Boy Scouts in Washington we heard the APs are coming down the road with the sirens going and everything else. And the next morning, after breakfast we had a meeting and they said there was somebody out there that was poaching around, going through the camps and everything so they called the cops on him. So I got home after that, we go over there and Mama told Dad, “Tell your son what happened.” And Dad said, “I was out there looking at y’all and the APs picked me up.”





[Laughter] I mean the MPs—the military police—they picked him up and took him home. That was his pride and joy.

	H:	Fascinating.



	L:	You know, I told my dad if I had a son I want my son to be like my stepdad not like me and him. That’s how much I loved—I changed my name at nineteen. I wasn’t no kid. I was a grown man when I changed my name.

	H:	So you were a Vereen until you changed your name to Lewis? L:	Yes, at nineteen, yeah.

	H:	And that was just going to the courthouse and asking for a name change, I guess?

	L:	Yeah, I went to the courthouse, filled out all the paperwork. I filled all the paperwork out at eighteen, and paid one hundred and twenty-five dollars. And then the Lady of the Court called the house and said I had to come back up there so I went back up there. She said, “Well, if you change your name, who’s gon’ be your dad, your parents?” So I had mama sign it and I sent it to the Dominican Republic where my dad was, and he called back and wanted to know why he got to sign the paper. I said, “Well, I’ll just be a bastard child then.” He signed the papers and sent ‘em back.

	H:	Now is he still alive as well?



	L:	Yes he’s still alive. My real dad and my mom are dead. H:	That’s what I meant, your real dad—

	L:	Is dead. He died in [19]95. And my mama died in [19]80— H:	Did you stay close to him?





	L:	Yeah I stayed close.



	H:	Boy, there’s so many. Proudest moment? You’ve got a bunch of them.



	L:	Yeah I’ve done just about everything that I wanted to do. My last proudest moment was when I went there with the forestry, I went down to Lake Okeechobee on a strike team—

	H:	On a what team?



	L:	A strike team. You know, where we go down there and fight fire. H:	Mmhm.

	L:	And I was down there two weeks, turn around, I had to go back two weeks and we stayed in a different motel every night because we were moving all over the place down there from Naples all the way up to New Port Richie. All in that area—

	H:	The whole state was on fire when it sort of— L:	So that was my last proudest moment.

	H:	What were you proud about? Just the fact that you were on the crew and saving the state, basically, is what it sounds like.

	L:	I was seventy years old showing those young boys what to do. [Laughter] H:	Isn’t that interesting? So you were still fighting fires at seventy?

	L:	Yeah.



	H:	And you had a bunch of youngsters on the crew and you were out working?



	L:	They were my boss. After I had reached the age of—I think it was sixty-three—I had made up my mind that I wasn’t going into management or anything like that. Because all I’d be there was part-time. I’ll be blocking the path for younger boys





that’d be coming up behind me. I can show them the way, and they can go ahead on and do it. And there’s quite a few of them that’s in management now. There’s a young man up in Jacksonville, he’s the first Black FAS in the Duval district.

	H:	Did he train under you then?



	L:	I trained him in BLTC and all I did was— H:	BLTC is what?

	L:	Yeah that’s basic fire training. All I did was just give him little points and nudging and sampling a little bit. Whether he knew what he had in mind, but he was scared to make some adjustment and some moves and he didn’t understand why people do certain things. And he’d always come to me and I’d always tell him, always give him a positive thing, that was the main idea.

	H:	You think other folks, obviously your own kids, that you’ve helped the way your father and your grandfather helped you?

	L:	Yeah they still do a lot of the things. That old white truck out there is their pride and joy. My daughters, that’s what they want to drive. That’s it, and if they wanna borrow it they can just get in it. Their husbands can’t drive it. [Laughter] But they can drive it. They can drive a tractor and everything. I like to see them work because I know they can do just about anything they want to do.

	H:	So your kids are all can-do kind of kids? L:	Yes. Mmhm.

	H:	And you’ve passed that down—that was what your granddaddy taught you, it sounds like.





	L:	Right. And I passed it on to what grandkids want to talk to me. And I talk to them all the time when they’re around and always try to give them a little bit of advice but not to pressure them and not trying to give them too much at one time. It’s just a little bit. And each time that I do anything around my grandkids I tell them why I did it. So they will know.

	H:	Mmhm. I’m thinking I have asked most of the questions that I had on my agenda.



I’ve got a million other things I could ask you.



	L:	I don’t know if she’s got it in the book or not but my granddaddy’s main job was to keep White people from coming into Paradise Park. [Laughter]

	H:	Tell me about that.



	L:	That was his main job. He had to turn them around. They tried everything in the world. They would go down on a boat and then they would go back up, then they’d try to come in. Either they’d try to come in by cars or they’d try to come in by boat. And the only way they could get there was say they had to go to the bathroom. Then the boat guys would put them off, they’d go out on the dance floor and dance until somebody tells them to go back down, they’d pick ‘em up and take ‘em back up to the head of the spring.

H:  And was that because they wanted to avoid—because they couldn’t go down to the springs? Why do you think that you had so many folks that wanted to come into Paradise Park? Just because the reputation of the fun?

L:   No this was people that had just come down from up north. Well, at first we had the jukebox. At one point we had the only swimming area.

H:   Ah so you offered things there that were not even offered at the main springs.





	L:	Right.



	H:	Did they have a jukebox at the main springs? L:	Nope, never have.

	H:	So this was—okay. Okay. It was a totally different place.



	L:	Then, when integration come, they still, they were trying to get in but granddaddy still said, “No.” Mr. Ray said it was okay but he never did. It stayed that way all the way up until it closed.

	H:	And his boss, your granddaddy’s boss, was whom? L:	Ray Davidson. The one in Silver Springs.

	H:	Here’s a question that I read about in the book that you may or may not have a personal experience with. Sometime after ABC took over, they instead of allowing the boat captains to tell their stories and be totally individual about what they said on the rides they gave them scripts—

	L:	Scripts, yeah.



	H:	And the impression I got, at least from reading the book, was— L:	They didn’t like it.

	H:	They didn’t like it and it took away— L:	The personal feeling.

	H:	Yeah.



	L:	When I went out there me and my wife rode out about three or four months ago and they changed the names of all the holes that—the springs—that were down. The main thing was the—let’s say bridal chamber—where the girl died, she wanted to be thrown over the bridal chamber and then the boyfriend came back





and he saw the bracelet on her so he dove down and then they both died down there in eighty feet of water. They changed that and that was a good thing for the springs and they changed it and then they made it sound like the thing with the bridal chamber was just a stupid folklore. And that’s the problem we got now with all these dummies tearing statues down and everything. There’s a whole lot of stuff behind that that you need to learn about and know about before you act on it instead of acting because you got a bad feeling about something, you know? You need to know the whole thing.

	H:	So other than that, the captains, you were close to all of the captains? Some of the captains? Who were you—

	L:	All of them knew me. H:	All of them knew you.

	L:	Everybody in town knows me. All I got to do was tell ‘em that you met Pete Vereen’s son, all the older one’s that’s all you had to say. Just a telephone man.

	H:	And Pete was your dad, not your granddad?



	L:	No, Leroy, they called him Pete, that was my Dad. Eddie was my granddad. I’m at that age where –

	H:	Everybody knew Eddie, but everybody knew Leroy too?



	L:	Yeah, he was teaching at Howard. He taught brick masonry at Howard. H:	Okay.

	L:	And his wife, Pauline, she taught at Jones Elementary. H:	Okay.





	L:	All the Vereens really were about the community. David Vereen, he was also teaching at Howard. DV—they call him DV. Lottie May Vereen, she was out of MacPherson, she had a hat shop up town. Tim Bundy, he was old school. He stayed in jail more than he stayed anywhere else. My cousin Henry, everybody knew the Vereens. They were one of the main families in Ocala.

	H:	Now this is not Henry Jones? L:	Henry Jones is my cousin.

	H:	Okay, he’s not a Vereen— L:	He’s a Vereen.

	H:	You share the same great-great grandfather and great grandfather?



	L:	Yeah. Aunt Mary was my granddaddy’s sister. Okay? She went to—I think it was Bethune? Anyway, she went off to college and the boys worked to send her money to go to college. So she was the only one that had a college education out of the five kids. And she did all the writing and stuff for Paradise Park. All the letters that were sent off t get certain grants and whatever, she did all that for my granddad.

	H:	For your granddaddy. L:	Now, my granddad—

	H:	So the whole park was run exclusively by Blacks then, is what your saying? L:	Yeah. Yeah, my granddaddy was the manager. That’s his obituary

H:  I’ll take a picture of this. This is a obituary of Eddie Leroy Vereen and this was a tribute published by the Ocala Star Banner, 1975 and it’s mounted on a piece of eastern red cedar with some kind of a dagger or—What is this thing here?





L:   One of the kids in his class made that for him when he got ready to leave school at Florida Memorial.

H:   So somebody welded this for him—



	L:	Yeah. He taught welding at Florida Memorial and mechanics at Florida A&M. H:	And when did he do that?

L:   I don’t know the dates and stuff, now.



	H:	So in other words he was teaching out of town. L:	Mmhmm. He drove a truck out of town too.

H:   Okay.



L:  He worked wherever there was a job and by his work ethics he always got good jobs. Now he was the mechanic at Burett Garage in Ocala and he was the only one that you had to schedule an appointment for back during that time.

H:   And this is all before the springs then?



	L:	Yeah, see Ray Davidson Ray used to take their vehicles to him. And so when they come up with the idea of doing Paradise Park, he had to go to Silver Springs and drive boats for one year. And by that time they had opened the springs up, so they transferred to open this park up.

	H:	So they opened it up but he made it what it became? L:	Yeah. They gave him a free hand.

	H:	And he started off as a car mechanic? L:	Mmhmm.

	H:	Well, and a jack of all trades is what it sounds like. What’d you say, he followed the work?





L:   Yeah.



H:  Wow. Quite the man, well I’m definitely gonna take a photograph of this thing here too. Well I think what I will do is I will formally close off our interview and then we can look at tue slides and take some photographs—

L:   Photographs.



	H:	Yeah, I want to take photographs of this here and I want to take a photograph holding the blotter.

	L:	Oh, I was trying to see if I had—I got an old desktop and I got my printer in there and I was gonna try and print you a copy of that and put in on that thumb drive.

	H:	We can do that, let me formally close this thing out. Reggie, Mr. Lewis, I want to thank you for your time today and for your stories. I probably will come up with a million more questions as soon as I leave today, you may come up with more stories, If you have more stories, please get back with me.

	L:	If I get more pictures—



	H:	That would be great too. Thank you again.





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Abby Lovett



	Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, March 1, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, March 4, 2021