AAHP 642; Rollins College; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 642 Rollins College 10-19-2013 Interviewed by Marna Weston and Julian Chambliss

on October 19, 2013



40 Pages



Abstract: Unknown people at Rollins College interviewed. Keywords: [African American History; Rollins College]



AAHP 642 Rollins College

Interviewers: Marna Weston & Julian Chambliss Interviewees: Unknown

Date: October 19, 2013



	U1:	Already struggling to stay afloat, or whatever, and that just made a bigger divide.



If you were good at anything, then - if you were good at anything, then people from the other side of the tracks didn't want you to be a part of them, to make them shine, to look better, so this is where I think the divide came in.

	U2:	A lot of the parents within the community, our parents could be involved. When you got kids going to Maitland, you got them going to Claire ridge, and by the time our parents got off of work, you know, they didn't have - a lot of them didn't have the transportation to go to these places, to support the kids and be there.

	U1:	right, or our parents "can I play softball at school, or whatever?" No, you can't be on the softball team because I can't pick you up. Your parents didn’t have the transportation to pick you up so therefore, you couldn't stay after school to play that sport, or whatever. Or that wasn't the case in our household, because my mom let us participate in what we wanted to participate in, but for some kids, then the culture "oh I'll bring you home, or I'll do this" or whatever, all kinds of stuff was going. Don't you dare get in anybody's car. You either walk your behind home, or we picking you up. That was just the bottom line.

	U4:	So I guess the next question would be, these symptoms of integration, were they things that should've been anticipated, should we have known that this was gonna happen? Or was it that it was intentional, or was it the times that was making - that separated a strong community into two, just turned into more separation, or do you think there was something more behind it?







	U1:	Some things are more intentional, cause I can remember playing at Winter Park High, they still called, they wanted only the best Black teachers at Winter Park High. So they got Elso Rennick which was in Orlando, Mr. Jones, he also came to teach history. Then, a state representative, Quinney Powers was the French teacher, they brought her over to teach French. The first Black person teaching a foreign language. They had her, Ms. Otey, who had been at Culivert, they had brought her over to be English and counselor, and then, somehow they got the best Black teachers, they thought, in Orange County come to Winter Park High. So what does that do for the other schools when you get people like that to come?

	U3:	They went around, and handed passes to teachers from those schools, the culture - we're gonna put some people there for them also. To me, it was a mess.

	U1:	Winter Park was also supposed to be the best school at that time.



	U2:	You have to remember, in their minds, it was a forced integration. They didn't really want it. They didn't want us in their schools, and before a lot of our schools got closed, because they weren't gonna bring their peers to our community. We had to be bussed to their communities.

	U1:	For our class, we had a third of the class went to Edgewater High School, a third stayed at [inaudible 00:03:37], we changed name to the one now, and a third went to Winter Park High, and that's how they divided our class up to stop a lot of the things we were doing together, cause now you doing things over there, over there, over there, and now you count the numbers that have been named.







	U2:	Its about twenty kids that went from kindergarten, all until high school that went to school together. Some of us, I'd say about twenty, some of us strayed off [inaudible 00:04:12] to another school, but it brought down the vibe in the community. I often wonder what would our community look like today if we had not had integration. The reason I ask that is because some - when I was a kid, Loretta was my best friend, her mom was still a teacher and active in - I can't even think of the name of the organization that she was a part of, but my grandma used to go there, and my grandma would always say "come to the meeting tonight, your grandma's coming," she was basically the only kid there.

Then, I end up going sometimes to the meeting with my grandmother, and I could say "this is how I became an activist, sitting and listening to what they were talking about," and it has come - the same things that they were fighting for, I have had to fight for. I say that because of this, one of the things was more school board - more people of color lived there, and they were fighting to make this a gateway to Winter Park, or whatever. Today, there are no homes - no, I won't say that. There are no homes for people of color located on West Boulevard. They took the homes away, but they built high-rise, beautiful buildings out of the price range for most of the people that they had driven out of Winter Park. Same thing is going on now. They're buying the property, driving the people out of Winter Park. And the city's mantle used to be the city of homes. I asked them that so much. Who is the city of home's motto? They changed the city's motto, because - I'm tired of hearing, and this is the part I don't like. The people that are pulling the strings, are never the people that are the meetings, or







whatever. Because you can now watch the meetings from the comfort of your home or whatever - right. But you never see them or their lawyers, or whatever. I learned to play the game like this. I'm looking at them, one of the things they did - oh, wait a minute, our topic is on the table today, I will go to that meeting, but that wasn't the most important meeting. But our topic was on the table. They're talking about our communities, I go to their meetings, listen to what their lawyers, well, why was it that when that last group was in the meeting, [inaudible 00:06:57] we couldn't do this? And now we can do this? We all live in the same city of Winter Park, why is it different over here, than over here? So you know, I'm not one of the most favorite people with the city of Winter Park.

	U4:	I do wanna take a moment to go back to it again. I was [inaudible 00:07:21] by something you said again, everybody started coming from the same point of Winter Park, I wanna talk a little bit about that point. All of you have a strong connection to that.

	U1:	Well, there was only two people that were looking at a smaller kindergarten, or whatever, in the community. Her name was Ms. Parish, I can't remember her first name-

	U2:	Miriam Parish.



	U1:	At that time, if you want your kids to have charm and - what's the word I wanna use? If you want them to have etiquette and the proper manners, you send them to Mr. Parish' school. But everybody else went to Willam [inaudible 00:08:04] kindergarten.

	U3:	Y'all don't have no etiquette?







[laughing]



	U1:	Get that hand off the table. But it didn't mean that we didn't have etiquette or anything, it just meant that she had an extra step. There was some people in this community that liked that about her, and then later on, she ended up having a nursery, did she not?

	U3:	Years later.



	U2:	Your mom, cause she was my day-nursing teacher, everybody looked up this way. I'm the only one looking this way.

[multiple voices]



	U2:	Oh, okay, see that's somebody I didn't know about, but anybody and everybody went to [inaudible 00:09:01].

	U1:	My brother was 17 years older than I was, he went to Wellburn, or whatever, the nursery sat here, and we used to live behind the nursery. When it was really cold, my mother would send him around the corner, and she would just hand the girls over, because she didn't want her baby girls to get cold.

[laughing].



	U2:	But every class had a graduation picture. Loved those graduation pictures. My uncle's framed already - he had a diploma, you had your diploma in your hand, and you took the group picture. In some years, it was bigger, some smaller, and our class was pretty large.

[multiple voices].



	U1:	I knew I was born for greatness, everybody had [inaudible 00:09:47] [laughing] [multiple voices]







	U2:	So that was very important, [inaudible 00:09:59] was important to all of us because, remember, all the parents [inaudible 00:10:05]. Ms. Carr, who was apparently right out of high school when she started, cause we kinda grew up together. Ms. Carr was there, Ms. Barrington and Sue also went there. She was part Indian. [multiple voices] There was somebody else that was there. Ms.

Cambridge had the babies - we had all those activities. I remember us doing standing in my class, she said [inaudible 00:10:45] with the bananas, and we just marched around, had little programs all the time, and did our - Curl and I, we always had our sleep time on mats, we had cards to sleep on, and we always liked to sleep by Ms. Carter, a little bit of their orange juice, she sent our card on every day bus. So he sat right there so we could have the orange juice, but it was just nice to see all the different activities we did on Reverend* street, and then when they had the big finale for graduation there, we had Mr. Mitchell worked for the civil star and the black newspaper here. He was always the photographer for everything, and he would come take a picture and stuff. Like I said, you got 1 individual, 1 group picture, and that was something everybody did every year.

	U1:	And from there, you went to the elementary school. You eventually went to Hannibal Elementary or you went to Western Elementary, then you met back up again when you - you used to meet back up again when you went to high school. You were then bussed to Eastern Ville to the high school. When integration came, then you were split up two different ways to middle school. You went to Glennridge or you went to Maitme*, then when you went to high school, you went to 3 different high schools. You went to Winter Park High, you went to







Edgewater, or you went to Latimore Tech*, and the divide kept getting larger and larger, and alrger.

	U4:	Let me put the devil's advocate hat for a second. Um, population in Florida has been growing, trying to have schools where you don't have overpopulation, you want the number of students to have an effective teacher ratio, maybe if you can, ideally, 15, 20 students to 1 teacher. The times were changing, calling for more connection between people. People had been separated because of race and class, so the government is making an effort, a flawed effort for many in '51 to '71, would've been the last date. Could it be argued that integration was not just a grand experiment, but something that was necessary? These fall-offs that you describe, the community not being together, being split because of different types of grudges, is this a natural ocurrence of what hapens through progress? There were ways to change in other capacities. It wasn't just calculated.

	U2:	It was calculated. Let me tell you why I know, for me, I know it was calculated.



You had an elementary school on Park Avenue closed down. You had Devinson high school, you had a Black elementary school, Webster, bordering the white neighborhoods close down because they didn't wanna integrate in that capacity. Now, your kids can walk to Webster, and the kids in our community could walk to Webster, continue to walk to Webster, whatever, and a lot of kids that had to walk on Park Avenue, we're not gonna have those little nannies walking on Park Avenue, so they closed it down. They said that they would never had a garage on Park Avenue. To me, in an indirect way, Rollings have always played well with







the community to try and support the Westside community. But y'all can give your opinion, and please say the same thing.

	U5:	I'm probably the youngest of all, Ms. [inaudible 00:14:37] is my teacher. By the time I came on, they were well into integration, so basically all I knew is integration. I did go to Webster elementary, I lived across the street from it. Now my siblings, my younger siblings, never went to Webster. They ended up going to the other white schools. But I think part of it was calculated, and we needed segregation because the black students were not getting the matierals the white students were getting, but they would not bring us the new materials, we would get the leftovers from the other schools. So, had they actually did integration brought some of those children over to Webster, they said that Webster was fit to continue as a school, the building was not sufficient. However, it has continued to be an adult education center, and they have not done any remodeling. So, it was not in the condition to continue as an elemetary school, then how was it in any condition for an adult center, which it continues to be even now. So, and I think with the things - with the softball, and those things, I participated some, but by the time I became a member of the softball team, then it began to disintegrate, because I think many times, it started building it at the high school, or the junior high school where the attendance was low, not only in the community. I was a part of the basketball team with Mr. [inaudible 00:16:17] in the community, and I did play basketball also with high school, but then again, once we went to high school or junior high school, then we start being able to participate in community, the practices were held after school. I was fortunate in that my parents - my







mother and father was there after, everyday we did, and we ended up - we had a station wagon, so my parents ended up transporting a lot of the boys to the football games, practice, they would take kids to practice, and pick them up, and take them to the games. So, as a result, we ended up always being involved because I had throws that participated in junior high, and also in high school sports. I had a brother that had 3 sports - he did track, basketball, and football, so they were constantly going because they participated in all year-round sports. I say, that's where some of the traditions start that I ended up getting some of the traditions that were earning their part of the community, because I was a part of the integration movememnt. My sister and brother - my brother had 3 older kids that went to Winter Park High, but my sister ended up having to go to Edgewater. I had just been changed, so why did they change the guide, and I think what they did is they went right down capered* and split the community.

	U3:	We got to keep a quarter for the federal government to read those numbers accurately.

	U4:	So you're describing the burden of integration fell on the black community? [multiple voices]

	U4:	these children can't go far, they can't be our neighbors, but these children can be?

	U2:	Right, that's the negative impact in our community. It was - in that sense, I think it was calculated, because they were gonna be here, and any negativity of integration, you can take Jones High* for instance, and also Hungerbird* when it turned [inaudible 00:18:36]. The zoning, there should have been white kids in







both of those schools. At Jones High, they were dying to go to hell before they sent their kids there. They sent them to private schools, they started home- schooling them. Same thing with [inaudible 00:18:50], that's why the numbers dropped. The area that was zoned to go there, there were pleny of kids that would've filled that school in numbers, but because the white parents were not gonna send their kids to those schools and eating there, are [inaudible 00:19:10] those school numbers dropped. One thing I really give kudos to is the parents in the community, and Orlando, they really fought to save high schools. We tried to fight them, but to no avail. But they really stuck with it, and I give them kudos for that. But, the negative impact, the African-Americans bore all of that.

	C:	And then what also happened, we started integrating schools, people who would've been cheerleaders, at Jones, you went to Winter Park - my time in Winter Park high school, we had to protest to get one Black in the cheerleading squad, on anything, you know. We had to really protest a lot of things. You had to be extra, extraordinary in order to be participating in the activities at school. I remember I was at Winter Park High School, and my senior year was the first time they had varsity sports for basketball only, for girls. I remember the basketball coach not allowing me, I really should've been on the first string, but because they wanted to make sure they had some quality there, I was like the 6th man. People would be hollering in the stands "we want Crystal, we want Crystal" for them to put me in the game, because they wanted to make sure they had the white girls on the team, and playing first string because their parents were complaining.







	U2:	I look at that, to this date, I keep up with that because I do have kids in the community, when it comes to scholarship time, they give out all these scholarships or whatever, but I can't think of two kids from West Florida Park that have gotten a scholarship from Winter Park high school. It's like something is wrong with this picture, but when you say that, or I don't know, there's not a white or black issue. Yeah, it's time for us to sit down at the table, and discuss things that they refuse to. They don't have a problem. Well, of course you wouldn't have a problem, because you have not been - what, for a lack of a better word, terrorized. That sounds scary for some people, but we still have issues, we still have problems, but we continue to push you out of the community, push you out, we can say that. We don't have a problem. It's funny how it took West Winter Park - our meeting community to help the city ofWinter Park to become incorporated. They had tried several times to become a municipality. They couldn't become a municipality because they never had the vote. There was a black newspaper person that came over to the community, and told the people "hey, the City of Winter Park, the city - they're trying to become a municipality, a city" or whatever, so the people did - from that community did come, and voted, or whatever, and they became a municipality, but ever since then, they have tried to take West Winter Park out of the community. Several times, we have been disclaimed by the city of Winter Park. I look at - I can bring that today, and I'm in the process of working on this one, I'm looking at our streets. They're horrible.

When was the last time a street has been paved in my community? Now, I paytaxes. I don't care how much they argue, say "this is what I owe" and these







are things that should be taken care of with my taxpayer dollars. How is it then, on certain streets in other parts of Winter Park, those streets, they have been repaved, refurnished, re-whatever, revamped 2 or 3 times in the last 20 years, I can promise you our streets, nothing have been done to them. Then they get upset when they bring - no, you shouldnt be upset. That's where our community should have something called community redevelopment, and they said that this is happening all over the United States, but they looked at the black communities and say that you're blind, that people are apathetic, this, that, all kinds of problems, so they could now take the taxpayer dollars from this area, they can withold them in the city, and one of the things that they will - several things that they were supposed to be doing was bringing - keep the money in the community to revamp the houses, to have better housing, and education, to start businesses or whatever. Well, the areas that you said you were going to start a business in, the people from Park Avenue moved into the business district that was historically the Black business district. Then, you say, "okay, okay, this is what we're gonna do." We have a landtrust, that's where through community redevelopment, they gave a million dollars, and said the city owns the property in the community. We're gonna distribute this property to the community landtrust, but then to build houses for people of color, or the disavantaged people in the community, and remember they said one time the block on New England Avenue was supposed to be a business district, which turned to be a business district on Park Avenue. Now, we're battling, we have this one little piece of property that you ahve given that was supposed to be - you put that in the commuity landtrust







saying that this will be the money-making mechanism because it was - right. It was a commodity piece of property. Now, they wanna take that off the table, because the economy is rising and that property is valuable. What are those good colored folks gonna do with a valuable piece of property?

	C:	But that's also a big part of our problem, overall. We come from all of these different things, we still have - and it's incorporated in us that slave mentality. How they came and put it in our mind, so that's why the Westside, personally for myself, can't get any farther because we are so divided among ourselves. This could - [inauiable 00:25:28] how they put certain people on board, knowing that they're gonna be yes-people, rather than the people who ask questions. So that slave mentality of come on down, and steal here between us all. But they know the people that they can select to go on different things, and not get anything done cause they're gonna sit there, just like Mr. Fitzgerald when he behaves when he's on stuff. They know they got him. He's gonna say yes to everything they got, but you got a black man there. But yet he says yes to everything they want, he does everything they say do, and you get a person over here who says no to these things, so they already know that. We're not going any further, we're just like crabs, keep standing on each other, pulling each other down. We don't get anywhere, and getting by when you're talking about the athletes at Winter Park High, they didn't object to the boys, because when Winter Park started winning football, the boys came back - so, it's secret. All the guys like Clifton Thomas wasfor basketball, Archie and all of those were for football. They started when football, when the black athletes came over, the boys. The girls were just







starting, like you said, they were just starting in every [inaudible 00:27:08], by that time, I was teaching already, so that's when athletics started with girls. That's when it started for girls, but for the boys, they wanted all the black boys to come. The ones that they could control, that was gonna do well with the race, they wanted them to stay, and they really started winning in Winter Park, actually starting winning at football, but -

	U3:	Like you said, they didn't want the girls.



	C:	Cheerleading at Winter Park - cheerleading at Winter Park was precious. [background noise & laughing].

	U3:	There were girls in the community that wanted to cheer. C:	Yeah.

	U3:	This is what I remember.



	U5:	Gosh, y'all not playing tongiht. C:	What do you mean?

	U3:	If the girls can't cheer, y'all can't play. C:	I didn't know that.

[multiple voices]



	U4:	When you talk about institutions that persisted, people have been divided. You divided in high school. I'm curious, [inauidble 00:28:12] I'm really curious, how's the board in now? It's still going?

	C:	It's not where it should be. One of the [inaudible 00:28:22] and I'm still trying to hang in there, and one of the things that I feel, you know, we can go and ask for support from everybody, grants and all, but we have to learn to support our own







institutions within our community. That's one of the big things that's lagging. [inaudible 00:28:43] has produced numerous professional people who are in a position to develop support for the facility, but right now, we started a Friends of [inaudible 00:28:56- wellborn*?] trying to reach out. Even commit to an annual plan giving whatever they got, and that's something that can be worked into your budget. We have a new director there now, and we're turning things around. We have some new members on the board, and that's another thing. You gotta get some creative board members with expertise that can help take it to the next level. I've been there for a long time, and one of the reasons why I don't walk away, because I want to leave it - right. And one of the things, the West Side property is prime property, and of the historical facilities of the West side, as the Webber* and the [inaudible 00:29:43] club, the board members control Wellburn*, so if you have people who don't believe in the mission, who can also get on there and sell it out, and that's one of my real concerns. That's one of my real concerns. You want good board members. You want board members who are gonna support, and that's a historical facility, and it can thrive. It's been there for 86 years.

	U3:	What else would you want as a solution*? C:	To serve culturally diverse peer education.

	U3:	Do you think the community still recognizes that initiative?



C:  You know, I don't - you know, I'm fine in all this. It surprises me that people don't even know what Wellburn* is. They pass by, and see the facility, and go "I didn't know that was a daycare" there's a big name that says daycare, and you see







kids out there playing, and activities there, but also, we starting - one of the new board members, we've updated the website, updated Facebook, did marketing and everything. But I just find that so hard to believe, that people are not aware that that school's there. So, but for the most part, a lot of the immediate community there, there's not a whole lot of children in the immediate community. So your niche is gonna be people that work in the community, and word-of-mouth and referral. People you know. If you got grandchildren, if your kids went there, and there are a lot of different, different things.

	U4:	What in your mind is Wellborn's status? A little bit of something in the wider community? Like if you look at Wellborn, and how it is right now, that's on the corner spot, the way the community at large is, that its health is a reflection of the Wellborn community's health?

	C:	uh, say that again. W:	He asked - [multiple voices]

	C:	Say that again.



	U4:	Do you think the Wellborn's health right now is a reflection of the overall community's health? The clients, or people who lived there, you know. So, Wellborn, the way it is right now - you say its 86 years old. I - like you, recognize 3 entities that have been there for that long. In my limited knowledge in the time I've been here, 10 years. [inaudible 00:32:29] you look at Wellborn, and you go, those have a long history. And, like you, I recognize that people don't often talk about them in that long narrative. But it's been there 86 years, and I don't know if







it [inaudible 00:32:44] it's not the first daycare center in Winter Park, it's gonna be the second. I mean, it gotta be. There's not a lot of places where you could -

	C:	Well, you know, this school was - like Linda said, it was really, other than Ms.



Parris and Ms. Neal, it was the only school. It was where all the African- Americans got their grassroot education, that's the way it started. [inaudible 00:33:10] anybody and everybody that wanted to be somebody went to Wellborn. That's where they started their educatioon, regardless whether they wanted to be a doctor or lawyer, and Indian chief or whatever. They started at Wellborn. So, give me a minute, I had a senior moment.

[laughing]



	C:	Lost my train of thought. But, you know, and Wellborn has always served more than just immediate community. It's always served Eastville, Maitland, some Sanford, Orlando, some kids that used to come from [inaudible 00:33:46] so it's always served larger populations than just immediate Winter Park.

		W:		But its doors have always been open to anybody - C:	And it still is.

	W:	Even though it was a predominantly Black school back in the day, its doors have always been open. But when, just like when you want things to fail, you say negative things, you do negative things towards them. If I can get them out of the way, or if I can take over that school, whatever that school is headed that we can have, because there is another daycare center - Winter Park Daycare, which is a few blocks down the streets, or whatever, they're bursting at the seams, or whatever. I very seldom - I don't know this for a fact, this is just Linda Walker







talking - but she's right. Just - no, no, no, this is what I'm saying. I don't see them sending their overflow to that school, and I know that it can happen. It's an easy something that could happen. They could send their overflow - "oh, there's a school right down the street," or whatever, "that has the same principles, morals, values that we have, go check them out."

	C:	You see, one time, they tried to get Wellborn to merge with them. And we know, we know there's hidden agendas. So, that's why I said it's important for us to embrace our own organization, and if we wanna save Wellborn, we can help save Welborn.

		U3:		But again, it gets back to looking at the whole picture. C:	You have to look at the whole picture.

	U3:	And the whole picture for me, not that I wanna be cause I'm busy and traveling now, you have to watch who you have on the boards, and you have to go "it's a new day now," there are new things that we have to do in educating our children. Now, when I hear Roris* talking about how she take Brandon to the little school she goes to in Winter Garden, and they speak foreign languages to 1 and 2, 3- year old kids, you know, we have to have that in our schools. We just can't have somebody just barely got out of high school teaching our kids. We may have to go with someone with a college degree teaching our kids in our kindergarden.

We have to change when you got all these schools with these curriculums they have, you know the [inaudible 00:36:08] and all these places. If I had grandkids, well, I may just pick the Montesorrey* over going to Wellborn's state school, cause I know they teach this foreign language, and I know they do these type of







field trips, and I know they have people with a college degree teaching. So we gotta move up a little bit, we can't stay on the same thing we used to have when we came up. It was the best thing since sliced bread, but most of our parents - my parents didn't have no college degrees or high school diplomas. So we were already getting ahead. Now, it's a new day. Our teachers in our schools now need to have a college degree, and they need to have the resources -

	C:	You gotta have the resources.



	U3:	But, just like I said our 21st century grant things, that's a big deal. But you know what, it takes time to wrtie those grants out. And that's where the money is.

	C:	And turn it over to the people that's supposed to -



	U3:	But if they don't work on it, cause the money is there. They got so much money, it's pitiful. But, you know what, people don't stick to it, they gotta work on those grants. There's a lot of grant money there, even if no one in the neighborhood get 1 penny. That grant money is there from the federal government, and all kinds of places. If we had that kind of money, instead of worrying about who we have right now, just get a team of people to just write grants. You will see the money flow. But after you get the money, you gotta change in things, you can't have the same old status quo out there. So we lost a little bit from not changing at the times. I'll put it that way. That's what I see. Because my kids went to - well, I lived in that Phillips* area, have been for 35 years, I come all the way up here cause I was teaching at Robert E. Lee, which was off of Edgeworth. My kids went to St.

Charles, from 3 years old up until 6th grade. You know, it was convenient for me. Not that they had the best curriculum or anything. It was a Catholic school. I'm







not Catholic, but it was convenient for me. I didn't bring them to Wellborn when I could've gone a little bit out of my way, cause when I picked them up I had to bring them to Winter Park to my mom's anyway. BUt the point is, we have to change with the times, and I don't think a lot of things, like Wellborn, they have not chaned with the times. And we have to do our part, we have to change with the times, then we gotta go out and advertise. You gotta advertise, promote yourself to let people know, and get people on the team as long as its been in our bet all these years. You get a look at places like Rollins College, and you say, "okay you gotta get people that have children that go to school, let your kids go to Wellborn, and you get to do things during the day rather than staying in your neighborhood at home." You have to do all kinds of things. We haven't done that yet. And that's the take I take on why Wellborn is where it is now. We haven't changed.

	C:	And to Carolyn also, getting board members, getting people who are committed, that's one of the big hurdles with any of it. All organizations, is getting people who are committed, who really wanna get in there and work, and do something. Not just about putting a name -

	U3:	Not letting somebody else elect the board members. U4:	Wait, why aren't people committed?

	C:	The ones that are there are committed, but you know, like I said, I've been there a long time, so it's time for some new blood, and new, young people with the grease and everything. We've reached out and tried to recruit, and we still try to recruit board members. We put it on Rollins Board, where we trying to recruit.







[multiple voices]



	W:	And I look at people - and I've been reitred since '09, my husband been retired since '09. Charles got his degree in Rollins, for what its worth. So here we are, Florida State, Rollins, we're both here. No one has ever asked us to do that, but now we got into some other stuff. Some ARP stuff. But the point is you got people like Grace Lies* ex-principal, administrator, you got Brenda Marie Smith. Now, all of these, the ex-people, you got Theolos Bronson* judge. Janelle* is gonna be retired. You got this kind of people running around, and I don't know how many times they've been asked either, to let them know how important this is, you know. They're not doing anything else. Now we can get together, cause we got quite a few people in this neighborhood, or people that come to the neighborhood that's retired [inaudible 00:40:16] who can bring something to the table.

	C:	Maybe you can help me recruit some board members. W:	We have to do something.

	C:	That's why I'm saying.



	W:	I don't know, I have a question on those people's merits, and I'm just being honest about it, how the slave mentality works. So you have people in your camp who's not doing what they're supposed to do, and that kinda raises questions about them.

	C:	Well, we're having this conversation because you went there. All of you went there, and I still say, people who are interested in Wellborn, we need that







support. Whether you have the time or not, but if you have someone you can recommend for our board, then do it. That's what we need.

	U4:	I think [inaudible 00:40:54] the history of the community and the history of these institutions, but I'm curious about the tension I see between the people - remember Winter Park as it was, and seeing Winter Park as it is. I'm curious as to what do you see as the forces that are pulling Winter Park, and what are the things - what can be done to bring us together, cause I'm curious, there's a lot of voices here that -

	C:	I don't mean to cut you off, but I'm a firm believer - this is just my personal belief.



I got involved in Wellborn through my clients, cause we saw someone came to us, we were having a meeting, and we saw that Wellborn was about to close. So we took it on as a project, Class of '62, that's how I got involved back in Wellborn. My kids went to Wellborn. And we stepped in, and got in there and got involved. I had no intentions of being a board member. We were raised in [inaudible00:42:01] doing things to help Wellborn. As a result, I end up being getting on the board, being the assistant president, and then Mr. Ride*, he resigned due to health problems, and I was interim president for a long time. If you see something, are you interested in something, and you wanna support something, you don't always have to be asked. If you truly see an institution you wanna be invovled, you can come in and do the asking also. You can say, for what can we do to help our - also, communicate. A lot of times, outside, you can observe more than people that are inside. You know, have that conversation.

You and I have been friends for a long time, and haven't had that conversation.







Why don't you consider asking this person? There are people who are retiring on the board, but Robert hasn't gone anywhere, he still in there. A lot of the people you named, they didn't go to Wellborn, or didn't live in Winter Park, but they might be interested in it. But a lot of people who knew Wellborn, and does know Wellborn, and like I said, you don't always have to be there doing the asking. I got involved because I heard something, and I knew Wellborn, my kids had gone to Wellborn. When I came out of school, I worked at Wellborn. So, it was impotant to me to get invovled.

	W:	Well, I look at it this way, and I've always been told if you don't have a solution to the problem, you close your mouth. It's like I said, when Charles and myself, when we get involved in something, we get 100 percent into it. So, we got into some other things right now, but once we start doing something, we might just observe and no need to say what I feel, because I'm not gonna be there to help the solution anyway. Like I said, I might look at some of the people that I've heard get on the board, but I'm just going by what I heard, and I say "I can see why we are not progressing anymore," if we don't do the things, we can't do the nickel- and-dime fundraising, we'll never do the big-time fundraising. That's why some of the names I called may know how, but other people, we get to talking, you find people who know how to write those grants. They get the real money out there, cause that's the real money out there. But you gotta be serious about it, and like I said, you don't have to be asked, but then you stay out of people's business when it's not your business if you're not gonna contribute anything, if you're not gonna do anything. Like I said, we follow with our kids, we follow them wherever







they are, and so we wanna pick up and travel - we just pick up and travel now. but if I get involved with something, I wanna be wholeheartedly, and I don't wanna say yes unless I'm gonna say yes, but like the 21st century grant, when that came across for me, that's why I said -

	C:	And I'm not a grantwriter.



	U3:	Both of y'all have to realize that outside entities and politics are still playing a great part in the community.

	C:	Well, we know that in part. That's true. U3:	I'm trying to soften the blow here. [multiple voices].

	C:	There's no blow. There's never been a blow.



	U3:	I'm just saying. That's part of the reason that the board members that you get don't do certain things, or don't stay, or whatever. People are still, once again, paying games with the community that are controlling. You never see them, but they're controlling as to what goes on. That;s one of the reasons that I feel as though Wellborn is not growing any - it's sad to say this, but I do think this sometimes. It doesn't make a difference what grant you got, who is on the board, or whatever, because they're outside people pulling strings to keep Wellborn, the Women's Club down.

	C:	[inaudible 00:46:00] teaching the kids, saying, what they're wearing, what they're looking like. Oh, that makes a difference. [inaudible 00:46:06] it makes a difference.

	U3:	Yes, we know.







	C:	yeah, but you fighting all that -



	U4:	Let me direct us, for lack of a better word, a game. And then, from that game, we'll just do a question afterwards. So, I'm gonna ask each of you, yes -

[multiple voices]



	U4:	Okay. Do you have, maybe, just 10 minutes? Just 10 minutes. The game will be this. Excluding yourselves, I'm gonna give each of you a turn, and I'll come to each of you twice. I want you to mention who you believe is a leader in this community, but you can't mention anybody in this room. You have to mention other people. I'll ask the first time, each of you will say something, you won't rat, you'll figure me out. Each of you will mention 2 people.

	C:	Do they have to live in this community?



	U4:	No, they just need to be able to have an impact in this community. Who do you think leaders are? I'll have a follow-up question for you afterwards. But let's let Lydia start, because you need to go quickly. It's just one person who you believe is a leader. Just a name, not gonna be any editorial comments.

	L:	It's a hard question.



U3:  Ok, I'll take the pressure off you. It's not a good answer, but this comes to mind now. I would say James Withers. We had a [inaudible 00:47:47] when you think of somebody, just say it.

L:  I would say Well, I would say James Withers, that was the name that came to mind.

U4:  You both can't take credit for it. L:  Uh, [inaudible 00:48:09]







	U4:	Okay, so everybody is giving one, so I will try to give you one more. L:	Did I make you fall out your chair?

	U3:	I mean, for all of you to fall out your chair.



	U4:	Let's try one more time, then I'll ask the follow up.



	C:	Okay, I'm looking at a different angle, or whatever now. Kelsey Jones. U4:	Okay.

	L:	I'm gonna say Grace Myers* because she's - I won't say why. U4:	You don't have to say why.

	W:	I have nobody.



	U4:	Not any one person? In any field? Or work, endeavor, life?



	L:	Anyone that's a leader, not in this community, just anyone that's a leader. W:	Thank you.

		U4:	You say who you think, we got 2 people that are leaders. W:		Okay, Michael Anderson.

	U4:	Okay, last one.



	L:	anybody at your church. U4:	Anybody.

	U2:	[inaudible 00:49:45]



	U4:	Okay, so we got these 8 people. You each came up with two. So, my next question is this: how are those people prepared by the community and by others, to be leaders in this community? And who is being prepared to replace them? So how do they prepare, what training, what influences, what advice? How are they prepared to be leaders? Who's being prepared to follow them? Cause my







thoughts are, perhaps what is needed - we have this leadership, this Florida leadership, Gainesville-kind of thing, a systemized effort of looking at the community and saying "this is what we wnat our leaders to do, this is how we need them to think" and maybe that already exists, you just haven't thought about how it exists, or maybe it does not. But, I ask you this question, idenity those people, just those 8, how are they prepared to be leaders, and who is being prepared to take their place?

	C:	Well, the latter is somebody I chose, Chelsey Jones, she's a coach. And I know her through an organization called Youth Can. I instilled upon the kids that, as a child, any idea, thought, or whatever you have, if you can bring it to the right adult, you can be successful and build upon anything that you would like to do. And I also teach them that, whether it's Winter Park, or wherever, you're going to live in a community. Go and be active in the community. Have a voice, have a say. If you don't have a voice, you don't have a say. People won't give you anything, or do anything to you. I think that she will come back to Winter Park and try to make a difference. She would try to make a difference.

	L:	I think Grace Lyes* the one that I said, and the one that Carol said before me.



Ferrilyn* is our local historian, and she and you ask who would, who's been prepared to take on after they finish. Grace has really come onboard at the heritage center, and doing historical behind Ferrilyn. Ferrilyn has taught her a lot of the history she's done, research and so Grace has followed her footsteps.

When she retires, she wanted to do something that she would be interested in, and volunteer, and doing that, and doing a good job at that, I think.







	U2:	I choice Joyce Lane* who worked with the city of Winter Park, and now has retired and just been on several boards. Now, who's been trained to move in her place, I do not know.

	L:	Okay, but you see, out of all the people, Joyce is leaving, so. She's just leaving, and so I can't say she has 100 percent WInter Park in her mind, and she's been very instrumental when she worked in Winter Park all those years. But when I look at everybody, Chelsea is a voice. Chelsea is a person you would love, college student who has something on the bones, speaks up, very observant.

She has a long way to go, cause she's just a sophomore in college right now. Michael Anderson, which I mentioned, is 31. Michael is just trying to get his career off the floor, off the ground, so he's just starting. Cause now, instead of doing the recreation thing, the Boys Club, the Girls Club, the Tangelo* Park thing, now he's gonna go and teach. So she's just getting started, so she's you know, cut. Grace is the only person - well, unless Brenda Martin*, we didn't mention her. But Grace is 61 this year, so it depends on how much Grace wants to give, give back. She's from St. Augustine originally, she has old history, because St.

Augustine, where she grew up, and she came her in her sophomore year, junior year of high school. And now, she's one of our administrators from ELC. So, we really don't have - to be honest with you, it took a lot to come up with those names. Ferrilyn and all those, they're retired. They're through with this business. Ferrilyn specially, Joyce especially. Grace just got retired, so she's got nothing to do stuff. BUt it's hardly anybody in-between from Chelsea who's only 20 years old to Michael 31, so it's hard. You know, to call no man's name, and that's







unfortunate. We couldn't call not one man, and that's one of the problems we have in Winter Park, we don't have leadership in Winter Park. You notice we didn't call, except you came up with somebody from church. Our churches just don't do what they used to do anymore. It's all about how much money can you give me, all the social stuff you can do. We don't do nothing for the community anymore.

[multiple voices]



	L:	We done a lot more in our community to reinforce our kids through school, all the stuff going on now, the bullying and stuff. Our churches don't pick up the banner and do things. We don't do enough for other people. We always expect other people to do it for us, and that's one of my pet peeves, and I don't even live in Winter Park here. I'm - like I said 20 miles away, 23 miles away, whatever it is.

You just don't do enough. So none of our churches are mentioned in that, and that's unfortunate, that none of our churches was mentioned, none of our ministers were mentioned.

	W:	Look, out of the 17 churches we have in Winter Park, only 1 minister lives in the community, and the vast majority of the people that go to the churches in Winter Park come from the outside, or whatever. They don't have the same feelings that we have about community.

	C:	I've reached out and asked some of the young professionals that went to Wellborn. That are attorneys, that are, you know, and they don't wanna be - the answer's no. I've taught Will [inaudible 00:56:06] professional, young professional that. It's just hard, I don't know, people just don't wanna commit now.







	U3:	I did mention my issue, and that's because we have started a school [inaudible 00:56:25] and a lot of the children, after they leave, don't come to our school. Our school goes up to 8th grade, and so I have been - I helped to start that school, and been invovled in that school. So we've also had - and our school is non-profit because we tried to keep our fees so that low-income families are able to come. Some of the teachers from Wellbron, who have brought their children to our school. Also, we've had an outpatient drug counseling program that wasn't actually in Winter Park, but we say we would help them, so that's the reason why [inaudible 00:57:15] my church has been active in somewhat, in evangilizing in the Winter Park area, because it actually started in Winter Park in the Winter Park community center. We were a church there for 3 years before we purchased our building, which is in Apopka. So, we do try to do community things in the community.

	C:	And aren't you a pastor?



	U3:	I'm not a pastor, I'm an elder at my church. I'm one of the founding members. We celebrated 30 years, doesn't seem like its been that long. And, um, a lot of the people from Winter Park [inaudible 00:57:56] which is in Apopka. So I had been so busy and involved with that, and I have 1 more year. I'll be retiring October 14. So that's one of the things that I hope to become more involved in [inaudible 00:58:13]

	U4:	Well, thank you for playing the game. Just curious to know who you thought were leaders. I think there's a good brain trust here of organization for leadership training. You all seem to have some of the same ideas and you came out today.







Julian was able to convince you another time to speak in this process, so there's definitely a commitment here. Like you said, it's hard to keep young people involved, but to get people involved, and to start to document, to track, you know what are they doing? What clubs and organizations are they invovled in? Who are the people that advised them? What are their grades in school? It's a lot of extra paperwork, but a lot of people have told me, if you can't, but this is the whole thing about [inaudible 00:58:58] if you can't, put it on paper. It didn't happen. So, that's a good way to document so it could be checked, and measured against our challenge. So, maybe our high schools, the middle schools, the churches, you didn't mention any school principals. You didn't mention any - you didn't mention Julian. [inaudible 00:59:22].

[multiple voices]



	W:	Well, you mentioned high school, we didn't talk about Winter Park High. I wanted to point this out, that I was at school, I went to my guidance counselor, preparing for college, and I was told to go to vocational school. And I have a Bachelor's degree from South Carolina State. I got my Master's from Rollins, from here, Rollins College in Ed. Leadership from Nova University, but I need to go to a vocational school.

	U3:	Right, they're all gonna tell you that, but you don't. And I - with the kids, or whatever, you got the counselors, tell them this. Don't come back to them, no - just stare in their face.

	L:	And they still say the same thing today. Cause I was at [inaudible 01:00:18] high school, I remember Aimee [inaudible 01:00:20] telling one little girl "you need to







go to vocational school" but now, she's teaching at New York University. You know, this type of thing, they go and listen to that. You say, are you kidding? You're going to school, so you know, it's the same old thing. The counselors, and we're getting fewer and fewer black counselors now to help our kids. That's the problems we're having at [inaudible 01:00:42] we used to have 6 black counselors, now we're down to 1. You know, this kind of thing. So we know - and the one that's there won't leave until she gets one of our former students to come back and take over, just because we need to have that continuality with the things that's going on. So we're hurting in all kinds of places, and we can't get people to see that. That they need to diversify and go places, and do different things, and that's just where we are now, and that's unfortunate. Cause it's still happening today, so I know [inaudible 01:01:16] they tell you "oh, your child can't do this, can't do that," and if you listen to that foolishness, or they label my child and put them - a good example, a kid I had at Robert E. Lee, many years ago, he was in special ed. So special ed and labor for [inaudible 01:01:28] get a certificate and move on. He started working at Publix over ten years ago as a bag boy, they let you do that at Publix. But, you know what? This kid now is a cashier. If you were that dumb, you couldn't be a cashier. But he's a cashier now, he works in and out of a bakery, and around the store, and he just [inaudible 01:01:49] I saw him the other night at school, and I asked "what have you done?" and he start telling me he lost 100 lbs. I said "what did you do?" He went through all of this, I said "you know what? You should be teaching this class and somebody else told me that," this was a kid that was special ed, but he went







throughout all the stuff that he did. He said "when the doctor told me he was gonna be a diabetic" he said he took notes of that, and he started drinking all water, he let all the stuff go, he eats only brown bread, I don't eat anymore white bread, and even if I wanna go to McDonalds, which is right in my doorstep, he said "I take my brown bread with me, and let them put them meat on, I pay the same price for it," I said. I manage myself all the time, I don't wanna be a diabetic. This kid has lost 100 lbs, I'm saying he's supposed to be special ed, he's taught me something that I need to know, yet he's also a cashier. And he's been labeled, when the kid didn't really have to be labeled like that cause you see his brain power, and that's what happened to a lot of our kids. We as parents let our kids get labeled, and we don't learn anything about it. And then, they go with that stigma for the rest of their lives. But this kid has come out of his own thing, cocoon, and he just awesome. You just really need to hear him say that, and I been telling people that story. He's a cashier, and he's teaching me something I need to know for my own health. You know, so we have to do a little bit better. Even us, sitting here at the table, we have to do a little bit better, and making sure we talk to kids, push kids, and encourage kids cause one of my kids that I have, Ruth Joseph, Haitian kids. Cause Haitian kids you know go through all this stuff we talking about too. And when she first came, she spoke no English, zero-sum GPA in her freshman year, and the teacher told her, the white teacher, she said "we expect that from you," and Ruth took that to heart. And Ruth got so angry, but she didn't bottle up that anger. She turned that anger into a positive. When she finished at Dr. Phillips*, she had a 3.9 GPA, 3.78 GPA, and







when she got out of - got ready to go to college, she wanted to go to South Florida, University of South Florida. She wanted to do medicine so bad. Well, they told her no. So Ms. Reed, who was her counselor, looked into it and sayd why? So they turned around 2 weeks later, so yes, she can come. By that time, we always told the kids to have a second choice in things that they do. She applied for the Bridges program. So she decided "Imma do the Bridges Program," so when she got to Valencia for the Bridges Program, she worked wtih Corey Brown and Alan Raisins* campaign. That turned her around and did a massive thing, but she also realized she didn't wanna do politics, cause she knew how dirty it was after working in those 2 campaigns. So what she did do, she changed her major from medical to non-profit. Now, to this day, as we're speaking, Ruth had this year, back in August, she had her first gala at the Rosen* Center hotel, with all these people Ruth didn't know nothing about cause she's patient, she's from the poorest part of Haiti, and she had a big gala, a fundraiser for her non-profit she started at her school, she and her girlfriend, over in Haiti. So, for 6 months right now, starting in September, Ruth and her friend went to Haiti. It took her work, her girlfriend worked for the children's hospital, her boss was the children hospital president. He spoe at the gala, and Ruth quit the job she had, and they've gone to Haiti to work on a school - they started raising money. And these are kids that didn't know anybody, spoke no language, but the fire they got in them when people said no to them, and we're gonna have to do that with oru kids. Find them, and let them know they got to fight for these things. And they had no money, they had zero. Now, they're building the school walls,







and they're in the poorest part of Haiti, and they started fundraising, and they went out, and started calling people, saying "would you come? would you come?" And when they got there, will you donate? will you donate? And they got a couple of checks that night, and that's how they started. And they had nobody - no help. Nothing like Wellborn's street has in their pocket. But they've done it, and they continue to do it. That was the first gala, they had Monica Maybien*, she knew none of these folks, and that's why I say it can be done, you just got to have a passion for stuff. If you don't have that passion, it's kinda hard. So you gotta find people with a passion, who love Wellborn street nursery, and we get that person's love for Wellborn street nursery, we could make the world, that butterfly could be good human being turning the world around, and Ruth has done that. She has a passion for Haiti, and I tell that story because she was one of my students, and everybody told her no. Ruth said yes to herself, she didn't take no, her girlfriend didn't take no, and here they are, doing what they love.

Passion because there's no schools up there in those hills, and that's what she keeps saying "no schools in the hills, we got a brand new school." And they started the school all in a matter of - she just got out of college. And here she is doing all of this. So it can be done. I guess we do more talking than we do doing, I'll put it that way.

	U4:	Since you have to depart, I just wanna give you the opportunity to give an observation on what you've seen today, or any thoughts. Thanks for being here today.







C:  [inaudible 01:07:05] so I'm not a political person. [inaudible 01:07:18] teacher, I'm retiring from school. This is my 34th year, and all the special education programs so, it was my pleasure to be here.

[multiple voices & background noise]



	L:	Well, it's always good to come to these things, and talk, and I walk back out to do the same things I've been doing, which I'm officiating volleyball right now, enjoying that, I'm enjoying that. So, when I got a passion for something, then I'm gonna be 100 percent into whatever it is that I'm gonna do, and I speak from the heart when I talk about Wellborn Street, you know, the things that I've seen, and a willing worker, but it's just so many things that we can do different, and I guess jsut talking is not gonna change anything, but I love our children, and my kids will tell you, my students, children, not my personal kids, that I do anything for them. If I see them going the right direction, I go the extra mile to do something to make sure they get what they need, and that's the type of person I am, and that's the way I've been brought up, to give to other people, and do for other people, and I think if we can get together ourselves, and sit down, and have a good time with people like Grace, and Brenda Martin, and him, maybe we can get somewhere. One name I didn't mention was Cliffton Thomas*. Cliffton, they lived on the corner road of Western - Cliffton is doing his own thing. Still working, but - he's still in the area. Somewhere out there where I live, cause I saw his wife not too long ago, and she's just getting ready - she hasn't given it up yet, she's getting ready to retire. Cliffton, cause he's working with different organizations, and we find some of these Fortune 500 people that run around all the time, he'd lose one







job, and he's already at another one in a Fortune 500 company. Yet, people like that, you get on your board, not just people who are some name at there, you may actually get somewhere. But we got to sit down among ourselves and talk. Put these names down, and try to approach these people. I think we can see Wellborn street, because we know what it did for us. I'm willing to do that. That part I am, I feel passionate about that part for sure. We had this meeting today, and I'm glad I did bring a few pictures.

[multiple voices]



	L:	Being reminded about some of the things we used to have at Winter Park, and some of them we didn't get to, but that's okay, we'll get to them the next time.

	U4:	Will you scan these? So we can identiy everybody we talked about. [background noise]

	C:	I just wanna thank you all for coming and sharing, and being open. That's what we need. Real, open conversation. I too don't like to sugar coat anything. I like to hear exactly what it is, because you can't solve a problem if you don't know you have a problem, and you can't address a problem, if you don't know what the problem is. So, a lot of it has been - and I've sort of heard some of that, Linda, when we had our meeting, Friends of Wellborn. So, I sorta heard some of the things that are already being addressed, but like I say, it's good to share information, especially to people, if you're passionate about an organization. If you're hearing someone speaking negative or saying things that raise a concern, because negativity drives negativity. So, if I hear negativity and I just pass it on to her, and pass it on to him, and pass it on, and don't come to you and say "Well,







you know, Carol, I'm concerned because I'm hearing this about Wellborn, and I'm hearing about Jones" so, it makes a difference when you can communicate those things. Sometime, it might not be anything, it might just be somebody out there, saying negative things, but it might really be something - that you don't know until you look into it, and observe it for yourself. A lot of times, people from the outside looking in, their perceptions might be different from you always on the inside, and not really seeing what someone is perceiving from the other side, so it makes a difference, and I appreciate that. So, I wanna thank you all for coming, and hopefully, the other people in the other side know you're gonna have a phone, or what.

	U2:	I do thank you guys for inviting us here, again. I will continue - I'm commited because someone thoguht enough of me to fight to save the community for me, and so, but I personally don't have any kids. But kids are my passion, when I think of them, I will continue to fight, to save the community for them to get to have a safe haven. Our community to grow old and thrive in.

[background noise]



	U5:	Oh, I get to talk? Well, I do really appreciate you coming out, as I said before, we're gonna keep having these conversations. I definitely want to speak about your connections, and do the job of digitizing that. That's one of the things that we're gonna take up as an institutional aspect of these conversations. Interviews that we're doing might not be an archive, the material and history of the black community, the history of the institutions, which are lost. I haven't seen any of those pictures. I have seen hints of it and people will talk about it, when you ask,







people say "no," and many people who might know the story aren't here anymore. They moved away, or passed away. And it is destroying their story. I'm always happy to hear the firsthand account, as much as I might not neccessarily get the chance to tell the concerns. But these are the twists and turns of the story. Y'all are going back to [inaudible 01:13:58] There's gonna be - we're gonna talk again. We're all gonna walk through, and hit all the curves because these are the curves here, and some stories that I believe you recognize from your own perspective, and I recognize the merit. [inaudible 01:14:18] and I recognize you have your own history. But I also think there's a inter-ploy between what the institutions are doing and the people are doing. You know, what's that next generation, what's that gap generation doing? I think that your kids and your grandkids aren't bad people, and if they're not participating in the community like you did, what does that mean? Cause I know [inaudible 01:14:44] ask, and people don't have a good answer. So, the conversation that we're having here, I hope that we can continue to have them. I'll be reaching out, by the way, in a couple of month, and get more people together and talk. I guess while we're talking, finding material and we're gonna digitize those. I do believe that there's an important story in Winter Park, and that story is emblematic of the broader story in Florida. But I think that there's details that we all need to stop, slow down, and try to record, especially Cam, I was curious about what you said Denise, and then say it again.

[multiple voices]







	U5:	So I do appreciate you coming, and our goal remains a goal to try to illuminate the community, and we will continue this conversation, thank you.

	U4:	Recorded on October 19, 2013 in Rollins College. [End of Interview]

Transcribed by: Isabella Oliver, April 27, 2020 Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, March 12, 2021 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, March 16, 2021