AAHP 256; Mack & Mack; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 256 Mack and Mack African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Anthony Pierce on February 27, 2012 40 minutes | 18 pages

















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 256

Interviewee: Jerome Mack, Juanita Mack Interviewer: Anthony Pierce

Date: February 27, 2012



	P:	Today is February 27th. I’m at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Mack. Would you please state your first and last names?

	JE:	My name is Jerome Mack. JU:	My name is Juanita Mack.

	P:	And are you comfortable sharing your age? JE:	Oh yes, I’m very comfortable.

	P:	So, how old are you?



	JE:	I’m seventy-eight. I’ll be seventy-nine November 6th this year. JU:	I’m seventy-five and olding. [Laughter]

	P:	And were you both born in Polk County? And if not, how did you come to live here?

	JE:	I was born in Polk County



	JU:	I was not born in Polk County, I was born in Highlands County, and when we united, I moved to Polk County over fifty-some years ago with him.

	P:	Okay. What were race relations like growing up?



	JE:	They were very different from what they are now. Blacks, the only jobs they had in Lake Wales was citrus, maintenance, either working on the road, and then sometimes in construction. But very few. Mostly, the Black males worked in the citrus the citrus industry: picker crew, managing roads, and caretaking of roads.

	JU:	Well, as a child, my mother worked for a doctor. And I did housework, and I learned how to clean house and how to work. Because she worked for the doctor, she taught me many things that I probably would not have learned





otherwise. But one important thing I’d like to say: when Jerome and I met, we started dating. And we were in Sebring, and we were riding out for a coke. You remember that, Jerome? And we were stopped by a cop. And I guess he saw the two of us, and he couldn’t quite get if I was—.

	JE:	White. I was stopped, and shined the flashlight like that. So, we went through some intimidation there. Because he thought I was dating a White woman, that she—.

	JU:	Back there in the 1950s. [Laughter] JU:	Right.

	P:	So, how did that altercation end?



	JU:	After he shined the light in the car and realized he had made a mistake, he went on about his business.

	JE:	The reason why they don’t appreciate she was riding with me. When I went to see her, I thought it was like [inaudible 3:00] going ride on the weekend, we were dating. So, we rolled downtown. So you know, you got a car, and different kind of lights. And in fact, I had just got out of the Air Force. I was in the Air Force for years, and I’m used to big cities like either Savannah, Georgia; Texas, the larger—I went to Dallas, Texas. So, in the larger places, when you date you can ride out. We had a coke, we rolled out. So, I guess this guy decided to stop us, see about that person in that car. And my Blackness was evident; Juanita was not evident. So. Thought I was dating a White girl. I know that answered that. But it worked out okay. He found out that my dad own a cab license. My dad was a





licensed operating cab driver for about thirty, forty years in Hillsborough County, so.

	JU:	This Highlands.



	JE:	This Highlands County, so it worked out okay.



	P:	And how did you go about obtaining your own education?



	JE:	My education was pretty difficult. When I finished high school, my mother was single. And I was very good student, but I didn’t have no money to go to school. So I set out on the summer to start saving my money from tenth to eleventh grade, so by the time I got to be a senior I had saved up enough money to almost pay for my freshman year. So, at the time, I was in Lake Wales, and it was very popular. The Allos family, who were living down Sixth Street from me, and going to A&M, and the only thing I can hear about, “A&M is beautiful,” and how––

	JU:	“‘Pon the hill.” [Laughter]



	JE:	That was the hill, so I set out to go to A&M.



	JU:	Now, my experience is somewhat different from my husband. My mother used to iron clothes while washing our clothes for this retired doctor. He was the caregiver of this lady that—my family never worked for her, but she saw my siblings, because we lived in a suburb up Sebring. And she saw my siblings going to the school in the rain and in the cold, and she looked at their report cards and she saw all A’s. So, she became attached to my family. And becoming attached, she sent all five of my mother’s children to school. So, we were blessed by this White lady sent us to college free of charge, and that was a blessing.

	P:	And so, what degree did you all pursue?





	JE:	I saw––when I first went to school, I had a Pre-Med major. And I decided I couldn’t, at the time, go into med school, so I took a degree in Biology and Chemistry. So, I decided to go in the sciences, but instead of Pre-Med I would try something I enjoyed. I was an excellent Chemistry student, so I took a major and minor in Chemistry. So I finished with a B.S. in Biology and minor in Chemistry.

And end up with a minor in Physics. So I taught both that––that’s basically what I taught.

	P:	Okay.



	JU:	I had had a hard struggle. I didn’t know if I wanted to go into a nursing, because I had a godmother who was a nurse and she sort of persuaded me that way; and I found out, no, that’s not what I want to do. And then I saw the media specialist, and no, don’t want to do that either. So, I had a lot of friends who were going to FAMU. They said, “Come on, go to FAMU. Come on, go to school and major in Education.” And I said, “Okay, I like it.” So, that’s what I did, I majored in Education. I got a B.S. in Elementary Education.

	JE:	But we went together. I mean, after I came back from the Service, we got married––

	JU:	On the college campus.



	JE:	On the college campus. And we were the only family I know. At the time we had two children on the college campus, and it was tough.

	P:	I believe it



	JE:	So, it was a struggle.



	P:	So you all were married with kids while in school?





	JE:	While in school.



	JU:	While in school, yes.



	P:	Wow, okay. Now, what motivated you to get involved in the education system?



Because from what I understand, you’re a retired principal and teacher, and you’re a retired teacher, correct?

	JE:	I got involved—when I first started teaching, my first job in teaching was Lake Wales, in 1959 and [19]60. Realizing—to give an idea: I was fortunate to come down and work with an excellent staff. I didn’t know that. Roosevelt school had some teachers that was really dedicated, and they older. So I had a learning situation when I came in. And my professor was Mr. Brody. He weighed about five hundred pound. And it was a good experience. When I first started working, the strangest thing: I did not have a classroom. I had every bell—when the bell rang for me to change them, I went from class the first year. So, I walked. I was the youngest person, I guess, on the stairs. I was twenty-four I believe. And when the bell rang, I moved. So I had to go—as a beginning teacher, you got the worst schedule. So I had to pay the price of teaching everything. I taught English, something I didn’t want to teach. I taught the whole gamut. So, that was a good experience for me, teaching everything. And I first started in sixth and seventh grade. And I as I began to work, I want from that to eighth, ninth, and then tenth. Then I found out later on, with my background in math and physics, he wanted me to be the head of the science department. At that time, they didn’t have a sophisticated organizational staff of subject areas. So, we began; I worked two years. And then I got a scholarship to University of North Carolina in Physics.





When I came back with that experience, he made me chairman of the science department, and that’s when I really became interested in moving it further.

	JU:	Okay, really, back in the olden days when they were using the paddle, I had this eighth grade social studies teacher. And I wasn’t talking, but I was one of the listeners. So he told me, “Well, you gonna get this lick because if the talker didn’t have anybody to talk to—.” And I said, “Okay. I was one.” So at that time, I decided—maybe for the wrong motives, because he had two children—I said, “I’m going go to school to be a teacher, so I can do the same! So I can do the same thing!” Now mind you now, after years passed, I went back to him and I got my first job teaching. There was a girl that was out on maternity leave, and I took her place under the same principal, the teacher that taught me in eighth grade. [Laughter] And it worked out very well. I really liked him then more so than ever. Because what did he say to us? Do you have the warmth, and the love, and the caring, and the understanding to teach children? That was his philosophy. And then, when integration came about, he also added, “Do you have the love, the want, the understanding to teach a White child?” So, I got my start right there in Avon Park, Florida, under Mr. Ernest Simms. And then, I transferred back to Lake Wales. [Inaudible 12:39] under Mr. Baxter. And I worked there for years.

Then when I’m done moving about; when Mr. Baxter passed and Jerome came principal, then I had to get out. and I went to—I ended up at Polk Avenue, and there, I stayed there until I retired after teaching for thirty-seven years.

	P:	Okay. Can you expound on your journey as an educator? What were some of your most memorable experiences?





	JE:	I can. In 1963, after receiving a stipend to go University of North Carolina, this is the first predominantly White school I went to. And I was sort of wondering how I’m going compete with the guys up there. I didn’t know that I wasn’t really prepared. I was in chemistry and physics class, and you never could get to finish the problems there. At that time, we didn’t have the calculators, we had the slide rule and what. And we had an assignment, about ten problems every night in physics, and same in chemistry. And with that background, the guy that taught me wrote the book. So the idea, he knew what was there, you tell him the page number and all, but I had never had an experience with a person that wrote the book. And competing with all these brilliant guys at university—now, University of North Carolina is the smart guys. In fact, some of the guys had IQ plus-130, 140, or what have you. And all of them are majoring in those areas. I think I made 86 on the test, and it seemed like everybody else made ninety-something. And I got, I went back to the dorm, and the guys at the dorm, they told me, “Mack, that’s great!” I said, ”How it’s great?” He say, “Most of those guys had access to the test.” Now, that’s one thing I didn’t know. They had a copy of the professor’ test. He’d been there for ten years; they had a log, they had a file cabinet on the test items that they had. I didn’t have access to that. But the guy over the dorm told me, he said, “Mack, you did great. All these guys had access to the test.” Then I find out I can compete. I didn’t have access to the test, but I still made eighty- something on the test, so I felt pretty good. From then on, I say, “I can compete with most of them.” Another thing: I was fortunate, because I was the guy that got most scholarships than I guess anybody in town. I got another scholarship to the





University of—I got two: University of Florida, and also the University of Central Florida. The University of Florida was on Nuclear Physics, so I went there. But when I went to the University of Central Florida, they gave me a full scholarship. So I went there and got a Masters in Physics. And from that time, I was motivated. They made me chairman of the science department of the high school, so I got a lot of good stuff going for me, and I got a choice of the kids I wanted to teach. When I went there, you know, it was a lot of—when they integrated the schools, I had a class of twenty-some-odd guys in Physics. They were Black. And then, I had a choice of another White group, as the same. And the problem was, the guys—I had not seen that many smart guys that I seen there. At that time we had outstanding students that I used to deal with. I was just working with the top echelon of kids. So, I really fared good. I had a good—when I went to the high school, I was able to teach what I wanted to teach, and I had the kids in my class. I had the top kids in Lake Wales. So, I had a good ride. And I was invited out to different people’ houses, and most guys that owned property in town, like the Hunt brothers and all them people that owned the roads and all, I was invited out. I met them and all. I was in Kiwanis Club, first Black that was in Kiwanis Club. So, I was treated pretty good.

	P:	What would be one of your most memorable experiences?



	JU:	I taught at Polk Avenue Elementary at Lake Wales, and my school adopted the Culyer program—the Culyer Reading Program. And I was chosen by Dr. Culyer, listening at my storytellers, and the way I taught. So, he wanted me to have the advanced class. I didn’t know what it was, but I guess it takes me back to my





mother teaching us, and reading to us as children. But anyway, I had the top group, and he would always love to come in my room as I read the story and I told the story. And that’s not only storytelling, but there was skills there, too, that we had to teach. And I was put in a position of teaching the top notch of the group of children that was in this program on the grade levels for us. I could have a third grader in there; I could have a fourth grader; fifth; and possibly somebody reading on the sixth or seventh grade level in my classroom. So, I was just fortunate to have done a fantastic job to have Dr. Culyer and his program to have selected me to teach the advanced program in reading.

	P:	What challenges did racism present in your career endeavors?



	JE:	[Laughter] Okay. When I first applied for an assistant principal, you put out your resume, and get the interviews. And I interviewed for the assistant principal for the assistant principal at Crosstree. Okay, let me give you an idea: at that time, Crosstree was very backwards. And they was the last people to sort of integrate that school. It was a slow process. Older people in town, they wasn’t advanced like Lake Wales. And I was told, you know, “This a great application,” but you know, the possibilities of getting the job of assistant principle was a rarity at that time. But I still put in and applied, and to give you an idea, the process was pretty good. Because I got good experience, and I ended up accepting a job as an assistant principal in Orvendale. When I went to Orvendale, they had never had a Black assistant principal of the school over there. But I was put in charge. I went there as assistant principal, and I end up maybe four or five months later as principal of the middle school, because the guy who principal quit. So the





superintendent called me and say, “Mack, you’re it.” And I had a pretty good staff. I had an integrated staff. It was Jackie Hadley. And we hired her on the only staff. See we were, we were in the position to grow and get a staff, so I was pretty prudentious. So I think the opportunity—our work with the superintendent was different. He wanted to advance things and treat people pretty good, so I moved right on up to that. Then, later on, they decided they wanted to transfer me back to Lake Wales High School, where they needed me. So, I was told, “They want you at Lake Wales High School, they need you.” Lake Wales High School was going through a transition, the race problem, so they wanted Black people in positions of control who we can—not saying “control,” but give some ideas about leadership. And that’s what they were doing. So, they moved back at Lake Wells High School as the assistant principal. So, I had a pretty good ride. It got to, “Mack, you riding all over the state.” But they didn’t realize the pay they were paying me was comparable of anybody going through, so I felt pretty good. I went back to Lake Wales High School, and then the next year, they moved me into principalship. So, I had a pretty good ride for twenty years. So, I had a pretty good ride.

	JU:	What I’ve noticed is that we started out with two teachers for each grade level. And I would notice that maybe I would get the bad little mischievous Black child that would not go into the White teacher’s room. But I could count my share of maybe having maybe—if I had four Black mischievous ones, she only had two. So I thought that was, you know, like unfair, but that was the system at that time.





I was not choosing the children, so I did what I needed to do. I taught. But I did not think that was the fair thing to do.

	P:	Okay. Now if you could change anything, would it be you doing something that you wish you had done, or something you wish had not done?

	JE:	You know, I wouldn’t change a thing. The reason why: we had four children. And as school teachers, we were able to develop some ideas of some of the things we wanted our children to do, we could help them. Our children had the chance to go to a lot of activities in school, and a lot of exposure to the alumni association. They went to college, they had access to the first computer when it came out in Lake Wales, right on my desk. That’s why my son is one of the first Black engineers in Florida. Because they were—by the time he was in eight grade, he was taking calculus. I didn’t know he was that smart. And the fellow who was over the new system was checking me a computer, and then they went to Polk College when they first got the computer, and we borrowed a computer. And the Black and White used to sit at this desk and go over some things that a lot peoples just doing now. So I think the experience I had was great. Another thing I’d say was great: I was able to develop the first computer classes in Polk County for elementary. Jaynal Wilson—I don’t know where he at—we first introduced the kindergarten through sixth computer program. We were the first school in the Polk County to have it. And based on that—now, I got this by going through my son in college when he was in computer engineering. And I saw some things in the library, and we decided—I told them, “You can learn more by using a computer than you do by anything else.” I had to challenge my PTO that





if we used computers, we could get more production and more learning from our kids. So, based on that, we were able to develop a system that Polk County system is using now.

	JU:	I wouldn’t change a thing. Because like Jerome has said, we were able to help our children. And they were on top things because we were there to know what was happening, and to execute those things that needed to be executed. So, I wouldn’t change a thing.

	P:	Okay. How have these experiences molded you into the person that you are today?

	JE:	I think it made me more caring, more understanding. Because, you know, the Black populace, a lot of people didn’t know the value of education. And it was a lot of parental nonparticipation. I’ve been able to establish program to get parents involved and participating in education. It’s a total involvement: if you get more parents involved—that’s what I’ve learned through the years. In terms of getting more parents involved with the education of the youth. That’s what I’ve been able to do through the Green and Gold organization, through some organizations that we started here, to try to involve more Black parents in the education of the youth in terms of the scholarship programs, in terms of the after school programs, and that was what we’ve been able to do. And I think over the last ten years especially, we have sent more Black schools in terms of academic scholarships and help, and what have you, than any other section I know of. We give around a total of almost twenty scholarships to minority students. I think that’s one of the things you see in there. The fields of interest have been very diverse. And I think





that’s why we had one of the first Black lawyers, first Black doctors that went to University of Florida from my class. His name Rory Calder. He was one of the smartest boys I ever taught. On the basis on what we were able to accomplish— and also the other, what’s her name? She’s a doctor.

	JU:	Kathy Marea.



	JE:	She agreed—we were the first—Roosevelt School was the first Black school that sent a student to the University of Florida med school. Not only that, one of the first Black lawyers is from Roosevelt school. His name is Wilson. He went there when Blacks weren’t even going—see what happened, the schools was a pioneer. Had some good teachers. So when they went there, they were pioneers in all these areas. Like my son, my son was the first Black that finished at the University of Central Florida with a Master’s in Engineering. Then he got the [inaudible 29:50] James Scholarship for a PhD in Engineering. He worked for NASA. And I didn’t know that. It was so many people that wanted to cheer that, “Well, he a pioneer”; it’s a different ball game. We had a chance to see that. Plus, we had children—one thing I liked about being in education, we had a chance to see our children develop. And that’s very important. When your children, offspring, go and do some fantastic things, and that really make you feel good.

My daughter is at an advanced degree at Sarasota County. She has a specialist’s degree.

	JU:	In leadership.





	JE:	Yeah specialist. We have another daughter in Orlando. She doesn’t have a specialty, but she moving toward that area. So we had kids that developed good skills and are able to help the community. That’s what I felt. I felt very productive.

	JU:	I think about the day when I first started teaching, and I was at Janie Howard Wilson. There were a lot of young girls in there, and I had so much to share. But, at that time, they didn’t have that good parental care away from the parents. So, I used to tell them, “Oh you just got to get this, because you got to go to school.” I tried to push education; not only at home but with the children away from home. And I had a lot of children to come back to me, say, “Mrs. Mack, I wish I had listened to you. Oh, I’m so sorry!” “Whatever you’ve taught me, I’ve learned and I thank you!” And, when I found that out—I’m going to get a plug in for my sorority: Zeta Phi Beta. We do scholarships. We all about giving scholarships to the needy. That was one reason why I drew my attention to sorority Zeta Phi Beta.

And I just believe in children getting a good foundation, getting a good education.



	P:	What do you think is the biggest change you’ve seen in the education system? JE:	The biggest change I’ve seen is charter schools.

	P:	Charter schools.



	JE:	One of the reasons why: so, Lake Wales was a community that we felt wasn’t getting its fair economic money for operation. Now, Lakeland, all the larger areas in Polk County seemed like they were getting enough money to give those schools and bring the programs. We didn’t have a magnet school in Lake Wales. We didn’t have the various things that challenge students. We didn’t have those kinds of school systems. But the charter school came along with different





emphasis about childhood education, and how they could improve. To me—this is to me—I think that’s been the biggest movement in Polk County. Charter schools, and especially Lake Wales, [inaudible 33:28] the beginning. In terms of the curriculum, in terms of the organizational structure and what they do with a little money, they have been able to do some changes. For instance, Bok Academy to me is one of the best middle schools I’ve seen in this whole Polk County. Because it offers the creativity of teaching and challenging the students in such a way—they have iPods, every kid now in high school. It started off experimentally in the middle school. They started off with the type of classroom articulation with kids that does not happen in too many schools. And many of them [inaudible 34:22]. They were doing things and challenging students, and that’s what I felt good about. Then they were hiring some teachers that were totally different from the teachers just coming out. They hired teachers of former lawyers that challenged the child earlier. Like my child, my son, I challenged my son. In the sixth grade, he was doing eighth grade work in sixth grade. By the time he doing eighth grade, I say, “You doing calculus!” I didn’t know he was that bright! So the guy told me, “Mack, your son is the smartest one in my math class.” I didn’t know that! He got all these [inaudible 35:02], I didn’t even know it. See, that’s what they’re doing early now. They challenging the kids, I don’t care who they are; diverse. They challenge the kids now to rise and do those things that are different. And that’s what you have to do. You have to move out of the environment. Lake Wales does not have the best environment for our young people. The schools got to do something different. And that’s what these new





schools began to do. And that’s why I say charter school, because I was a part of charter school, and they have done some great things with our youth, Black and White. Okay.

	JU:	One change that I noticed was when the FCAT came into effect, it was like we had books to teach this skill, books to teach this skill. And it was kind of—some children caught on right away, and some children did not. But I think it took away the freedom of the teacher to really teach the basic knowledge. Because we’ve— I had several children to say, “When did we do this?” “I don’t remember doing this!” But they had done it on the FCAT. And some of the children who remembered said, “Oh yeah, you remember we had that! That was on the FCAT! Don’t you remember? We went to the book, and we went through this, and the last one, and—?” And I think FCAT kind of got everybody all out of focus.

	P:	Okay and so, my last question is, what advice would you give upcoming generations?

	JE:	The new generation? P:	Yes sir.

	JE:	We need to look at our system and see whether or not we can do some improvement. Can we learn from others? This is a changing environment. Every five or ten years, you have different ideas come into play. We got to inspire our youth for leadership. They need to also be put in position of leadership, and get ready for changes, because nothing is stagnant. You have different objectives every year. You have changes and improvement, so we need new ideas. As they go, they need to come in and sort of interact with the—it’s a constant movement.





That’s what a college is, it’s such a fluent movement. The colleges change every year, almost. I mean, you go there, and it’s some changes. That’s the evidence. Things are beginning to change, and our communities are beginning to change. You could prepare for the future, but again, people change, and respect another people and our ideas. And I think, that’s what I’ve seen. Because I know my son’s ideas are totally different from mine. And he’s been able to teach me. See, I was the teacher at first, but now I have learned from my son. I’ve learned from a lot of people I’ve been around. And that’s what you have to do: accept changes and move on to a different era. So, it is changing.

	JU:	I have noticed from my two daughters that are in education how this change has come about. I would say, “Well what are you doing about this?” They said “Momma, we don’t do that anymore. The work that is now placed upon us is so tremendous!” And they have to keep the system as change. She would tell me how we have to show how the child is doing, progressing. He should be progressing, it’s just more of a record-keeping thing now that—we had to always keep records, but not to the extent that the new teachers are having to do now. And when I say “new,” those who are in education. That’s what I’m calling the “new” ones. So, it has changed tremendously.

	P:	And so, what advice would you give the upcoming generation?



	JU:	Hang in there, because education is the key to opening up closed doors. P:	Okay. All right, well that concludes my interview for today.

	JU:	Alrighty.



	P:	Thank you both.





	JE:	Okay. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Sandra Romero, May 29, 2018 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, June 26, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019