AAHP 579B; Johnson; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 579B Jacob Johnson 8-26-1996

Interviewed by Janet Matthews and Niya Denson Rogers on August 29, 1996 133 minutes | 43 pages



Abstract: In this interview, African American Fort Meyers elder Jacob Johnson recalls his childhood and early life in Fort Meyers, as well as on Sanibel Island. Johnson recounts the horrific lynching of two schoolboys of Williams Academy in Fort Meyers, who were wrongly accused of raping a White girl. Johnson remembers the psychological effects of the lynching on both his family and the broader Black community of Fort Meyers as a whole. Johnson explains that the lynching was part of a wave of terror attacks against Black communities in the area during the period. This violence, Johnson remembers, and caused his family and other Blacks residents to flee the area due to fear for their safety. Johnson also recounts the impact of educators such as one man, Professor Dickson, who created a high school for Black students called Dunbar. Johnson remembers that the efforts of Dickson and other Black educators resulted in his admission into Florida A&M University.





Keywords: [Fort Meyers, Florida, Black community, racial terrorism, lynching, Sanibel Island, education, FAMU, Florida A&M University, segregation, Jim Crow]



AAHP 579B

Interviewee: Jacob Johnson

Interviewer: Janet Snyder Matthews and Niya Denson Rogers Date: August 26, 1996

	M:	This is our second interview with Mr. Jacob Johnson. Mrs. Niya Denson Rogers and me, Jan Matthews, are seated here and we’re gonna play catch-up on a couple things. And first of all, we’d just like to talk a little bit if anything Mr.

Johnson would like to say about when he was part of a farming family on Sanibel in the 1920s, what it was like to ride the Dixie, what they used it for to get back and forth to the island in their daily work.

	J:	Okay and in 1924 in early June was my first trip to Sanibel Island. The mode of transportation at that time was via steamship. The Dixie and The Gladys steamships owned by the Kenji brothers were the boats that were used certain times a year to transport goods, passengers, and whatnot between Fort Meyers and Sanibel. The Dixie usually ran in between Fort Meyers and Sanibel and the other island outpost in the fall of the year and the winter months of the year. This was during the harvest season on Sanibel and the boats were transporting the produce back to Fort Meyers. The Dixie was a larger boat than the Gladys, and I think that was one of the reasons that it was used at this time. It was also a faster boat. The boat left Fort Meyers at eight o’clock in the morning from the city to us, which was located at the foot of Jackson Street. It arrived at Sanibel about ten o’clock. And then this was the second stop, because the first stop was at Point Heraso, which was used mostly to drop the mail off, there was never too much shipments or anything like that left at Point Heraso, most of the mail at Sanibel, the mail and the goods for the merchant there, the Bailey Brother supplies passengers who would travel down to Sanibel and that sort of thing. The boat then left Sanibel for Wofort, Capitvo, and over to Saint James City which was on





the southern point of Pine Island. And the boat made its return trip from there, and it usually arrived in Sanibel about three o’clock or so on its way back into Fort Meyers. And it’s arrival time at Fort Meyers were about five o’clock in the afternoon. Some of the personnel while the boat usually was—One of the Kenji brothers acted as captain and they had a first mate and the engineer, and also there was a cook aboard ship. And one of the things I remember, and I thought it was kind of odd and interesting too was this cooking business. I thought it seemed to me as if at eight o’clock everybody would have had their breakfast and ready to go to work but one of the first meals was served a good hour before we arrived at Sanibel. During the years of transporting the automobiles to Sanibel was by boat. This is of course before the ferry. This was about the largest item that the ship carried. But there was not too many automobiles transported to Sanibel at that time because there wasn’t that many over there. So that was for in between, I think. The Dixie also in the summertime occasionally there would be excursions. And these excursions were for the Black citizens of Fort Meyers. Now this is the, well, the boat would be full of people, they would have band, there would be dancing, and just a hallelujah good time. I made these observations from being there on the docks in Sanibel, don’t know why we were there but—I knew on two occasions we were, and the boat was returning from the downriver or Captivo trip on his return to Fort Meyers. So this was in the afternoon and the boat was stopped. At this time, Dixie Beach is no longer located at this area. They have a Dixie Beach Road or Street there but it’s definitely not an area that the stops were. And the people would be having such





a good time. They were all over the boat, upstairs, downstairs, and around the bow. I really don’t know if this was a holiday or maybe some entrepreneur would get together occasionally and get the Kenji brothers to run this excursion for them. And I believe on each of these occasions it was always the Dixie that was used for the excursion. Getting back to the excursions and the Dixie stopping at Dixie Beach on Sanibel on its return trip in the afternoon to Fort Meyers. And the docking, there was a nice building, the docks extended out into the bay and the Dixie would land there, the people would get off sometimes and walk around the docks because the docks extended completely around the building. It was a nice, white building. I don’t know what happened to it in later years but the building did disappear, I don’t know if a hurricane blew it away or whatnot, but I do remember it disappearing. And after the excursion years, coming up to—well, let’s say the Depression time. All this merriment and whatever was discontinued. I imagine now people don’t have the money that they had say in the mid-[19]20s and a little later, before the Depression. I think one of the entrepreneurs or some of them were businessmen there who had a grocery stores or restaurants in the bottom. In all probability, I think they got together to promote this occasion. I think that’s about all I can say—

	M:	It was in the mid- [19]20s that you remember that and it seems to have ended with the Depression, like a lot of things did. [Laughter]

J:  Sailing down the river to Sanibel. And mentioning the cook on the Dixie and the Gladys, I don’t remember this man’s name if really I ever knew it. He was a very friendly person, and he was the only Black person working on the ship. After the





discontinued serving of food aboard ship, because I’m sure the last time I was on the boat or being at the docks when it came to Sanibel, they were no longer serving food on it. By this time, the ferry had begun to run. The Dixie and the Gladys were still delivering the mail to the islands. Years later, about 1961, I was in Lakeland, Florida, one evening and I met the widow of the cook from the Dixie and Gladys. When I mentioned Fort Meyers, this is when she told me that she had formerly lived in Fort Meyers but they roomed with the Armstrongs on Orange Street. And that her husband had worked for the Kenji brothers. And at this time, he had passed. The steamboat service to Sanibel and the other islands pervious to the ferry, all of the merchandise, all of whatever items had to be shipped to the islands were taken down on one of these boats. Now, this included in the early years, the horses, the wagons, or any other farm instrument that was needed there. In the fall of the year and the winter, when they were harvesting the crops, the produce was shipped by these boats, especially the Dixie, at this time, because usually the Dixie ran during this season. So everything that was used on the island, everything that left the island, had to be transported by the Dixie or the Gladys. Now, in 1926, when these men made money and bought automobiles, I don’t know exactly when it was that they got their cars on Sanibel but this was the way they were brought down from Fort Meyers. One at a time, because you could only transport one automobile or one wagon on the boat at a time. And back to the Dixie, the Gladys, and automobiles, in loading the automobile from the dock onto one of the steamships, the automobile was driven right aboard ship, right in the opening where all the





passengers and the loading and everything took place. These activities were attended to before the loading of the automobile because it would occupy all the space. When, of course, the ship arrived at Sanibel, the car entered on the right side of the boat and it exited on the left side because now we’re going downriver. At the docks here in Fort Meyers, the boat is headed towards the south and the dock is on the right side of the boat so this meant you drove it off of the dock into the cargo. Now, downriver when you’re unloading, the dock is on the left side of the boat so you just drove the car right off the boat onto the dock. Now when the ferries came about, which is a vehicle that is used to carry automobiles or busses or something of that nature, and it is constructed by hand. Now, you have a barge-like vehicle with the engine below the upper surface or the decking of the ferry. And then there is the pilot house, which is sitting in the middle of this barge. To give you the best description I can tell, I use the word barge, knowing that it is a rectangular-type vehicle. The pilot house is sitting up about two stories and beneath that is an area for the passengers and the automobiles are driven on either side of the pilot house as it loads on the ferry. I think the capacity of the automobiles—I don’t recall, I think the ferry was the best and I think I could carry thirteen automobiles if fully loaded. Which I would say would be a rare occasion unless it was in the wintertime when the tourists were going down to Sanibel and Captiva. Those would probably be the only times when there would be a full load or maybe they couldn’t take everybody in one crossing. But in the wintertime, another thing about the ferry was that it ran on a regular basis of about, I’d say roughly every two hours. Now, in the summertime, there were only about three





trips to Sanibel, and the last ferry to leave Sanibel at five o’clock—and if you missed that ferry you would have to spend the night on Sanibel. I remember a friend of mine who was visiting my cousin there relays the story of having gone to Sanibel to visit my cousin, they were having such a good time and they forgot the time and his mother didn’t know where he was. And she couldn’t think, where’s my boy at night? He’s not home and there’s no way to call, and he had to spend the night on Sanibel and his poor mother was worried to death. Some of the incidents about missing the ferry. About my parents education, I know very little. Neither of them, I’m sure, completed the elementary schooling. And my father left home when he was fourteen and I’m sure that meant that he had to make a living for himself some way or another. He was married at sixteen. But I do remember my mother talking about White teachers doing her time in the little town in which she lives. That they had these ladies who had come from the north who were still around even in her time and that she got the little schooling that she did. I think really they had very little in education but they both knew their numbers very well and they read very well. I think they were probably had done some self-teaching or something of that nature in order to have the ability to express themselves and to understand what they were reading. And they were particularly interested in the education of their children. Now, before the family moved from Saint Petersburg I understand that—well, the five oldest children had attended school because my oldest brothers and sisters had talked about the 16th Street School. And that was there a few years ago I remember there was an elementary school on 16th Street in Saint Petersburg and my brother John and my sister Bernice





also began their early education there in Saint Petersburg. But before we left Saint Pete I was too young to attend school so therefore I missed out on that part of education. And then we were living in areas where there were no schools. So, when I was old enough, schools wasn’t available. This meant that my older brothers and sisters didn’t attend school either, until we came to Fort Meyers.

That is when we got into the education situation again. A couple of years ago, I was in the area, the general area, where my Uncle Harry and my mother had lived in their early youth. But this is where my Uncle Harry’s wife lived, this was her hometown, actually, Freedman Grove. And they took me—well, this was a family reunion for the Bakers, which was Uncle Harry’s wife’s family. And they had some of the activities at this school where she had attended as a child. It was a very well-done, well-preserved building, red brick, it was old but it still looked good. Now, there was a school there and there was a church on the grounds also, and some of the activities for this reunion was held there. And I think perhaps it was because their grandmother had attended this school. There isn’t too much I can say, very little I can say, as I said earlier, about my father and mother and their education. But I do know that there was always a newspaper in the house. My father read that diligently. That was one of the things he did every evening, he would sit down and he would peruse the newspaper. I think maybe this had to do with his farm work, what the situation was in the market and maybe who was buying what where and what they were paying. I’m quite sure these things would have been of interest for him. About my marriage, this is one of the things that I had put aside for quite a few years and





one of the reasons was I felt that I wanted to be a little more financially fixed before venturing into this particular way of life. About the time that I decided that I wasn’t going to get married—I had a sister who didn’t, my oldest sister never married—and I’m thinking now at forty-six that, hey, maybe I’ll follow in her footsteps. The money hasn’t arrived and I don’t need to take on some other person to have us struggle. But, however, at the age of forty-six I met and married Delia Long. It’s a funny story behind this because I met her through a friend of mine, sometimes I think he wasn’t such a good friend. I had been living away for a considerable length of time and I returned to Fort Meyers in February, I believe, of 1959. I had just bought a new convertible automobile in Philadelphia. My intentions were to come to Fort Meyers and remain until the spring of the year and drive out west to Arizona, where I had planned to live. I had lined up a job and all of this. But getting back to this friend of mine, the very first night that I was in town he came by the house and he wanted to take me where these two sisters lived. He’s driving the car, and as we got on the street in which these young women lived, we met this one sister, the one that ended up being my wife [Laughter] on the way to the store. It’s probably about eight o’clock in the evening. And he introduced me, we took her to the store and back home and so far as I was concerned, that was the end of it. But probably a night or two later, I had this phone call and this was this young woman. She wanted to know if I would like to go out to the baseball park, Terry Park. There was a special baseball game going on, the Cincinnati Crown I think was their name. They were one of these groups that traveled around the country and wanted to know if I





would like to go out and watch them. And I said, “I’ll go.” She and a friend of hers, and we went out and watched the game and whatnot and I guess it took off from that. But anyway, I ended up married to the woman. Going back a little further, this same friend of mine who, believe it or not, I had introduced him to his wife, we all in high school at this time.

	M:	Who is it, what’s his name?



	J:	Nathaniel Phil Jackson. I think I was in the ninth grade at this time, so this goes back. I had been seeing this girl over the summer and for some reason we had a little something and I told her, “We better break it off.” I was really adamant about it, I was really meaning it. And just before school started, I had stopped seeing her really, I just stopped seeing her. Now school is starting, this is the fall of 1931, our football team was getting together, we were practicing every afternoon, getting ready for our first game. And this was the first social of the season at the school, this particular evening, and a new girl had come to town and she had kind of smiled at me [Laughter] I guess I smiled back in return but anyway, we were at this little social out at Dunbar that evening, and after it was over, “I’m gonna walk this girl home,” I thought. Well, I did. But in the meantime, while we were getting ready to leave, this old girlfriend comes onto the scene and was kind of insisting that I walk her home. And I want to walk this new girl home. And that’s when I called on my friend, I asked him to, I said, “Phil, take this girl home for me, see that she’s safe.” So he did. And from that, they ended up getting married several years later, all through high school, and they had two nice children—a boy and a girl—from the marriage.





	M:	What was her name?



	J:	The girl’s name Hadame Crumiduy. C-R-U-M-I-D-U-Y, I think. Hadame is a very pretty girl, but for some reason or another I just decided that we had had enough. Anyway, Phil got married to Hadame years later and many, many years later, in 1959, he introduced me to my wife, Delia. D and I were married in 1962, in the meantime, something happened there about my finances and I had to leave with my wife in Arizona. And I’m sure that’s one of the reasons I ended up being married here in Fort Meyers. However, I did work out at Cape Coral was just in its developing stage, very few houses were there at the time. And this is March of 1959. And they got this little restaurants, store and post office all together there in one building on Cape Coral Parkway, it’s one block west of Del Prado. And it was quite a little lucrative thing, they made very good money there. I think really that’s one of the reasons I didn’t get out to Arizona at that time, really, I think that was it because after I started working at this restaurant I met another guy who had come over here from the east coast and he talked me into going up to Connecticut after this place closed. So instead of Arizona, now I’m going back up in the area in which I had been living. In Pennsylvania, then I’m going to Connecticut. So I went there and worked that summer, when it closed came back to Fort Meyers and took up my relationship with Delia again, that’s how it went. I think we went through Connecticut for three summers, one of them after we were married, the last year I’d gone up there.

	R:	Tell us what she’s doing today. M:	And where she went to school.





	J:	Delia attended school here at Dunbar, this is the graduating class of 1956, and I remember that because they had a class reunion a year ago. After we were married, she worked with my sister at her daycare and preschool business for one year. The next year, she started a business—

	M:	Bernice? Which sister?



	J:	Bernice. The next year she started her own business at the house. I think shorty after that, I had added something—I had made an addition to the back part of the house and I enclosed the porch area and enlarged that so this is where she held her work with the children.

	M:	Does it have a name, the business?



	J:	I don’t remember, it could have been as many as eight or ten because for a longtime she did have as many as twelve kids because she had to get somebody to help her. Later on she stopped carrying out that many people. [Break in interview] At the close of her schoolwork this year, working with the children, she decided to retire so she had given up this work after thirty-some years. And just a day or so ago she sold out most of her—the items that she’d work with to someone who is going to start a daycare. That includes the gym set on yesterday evening.

	R:	What did she call the name of the preschool?



	J:	Johnson’s Preschool. Of the marriage, just joining together, whatever, we had one daughter. The daughter, Tara, she likes TAR-ah instead of TEAR-ah.

	R:	Spell it.





	J:	T-A-R-A. Tara is presently employed and living in Tallahassee. She works at Florida A&M University in some type of job, work, whatever which I say is Penny Annie, I don’t know really. But I know one thing, she’s not making much money because Daddy is still [Laughter] doing a little sponsoring. But that’s life. I don’t regret that at all, I want to help her as much as I can. So I do what I can, it’s not very much. But I do what I can.

	R:	What year was she born?



	J:	Tara was born in [19]62, [19]63. R:	Which month was that?

	J:	October. She was a premature child. M:	She was?

	J:	After birth, Tara was in the hospital for exactly two months, I believe. R:	Wow.

	J:	And for a long time she was in this incubation thing or respiration or something, she only weighed around four pounds at birth. We didn’t think she was gonna make it, really.

	M:	In the Fort Meyers Hospital?



	J:	It was at Jones Walker Hospital, located at that time at Lily and Blount Street. After Jones Walker closed on Hyde, that’s where they built at Jones Walker Hospital. Of course, Tara’s in very good health and a bit overweight. I guess that’s life too.

	R:	Is she married?





	J:	She’s not married. Once she was saying something about marrying, but I think she was trying to get back at me for some reason, I don’t know. But the pleasure would have been mine, however.

	M:	Do you go to Tallahassee to see her?



	J:	Not recently. I was there last year. She needed a car and the car that she had was supposedly—I ended up buying one of these guys had rigged up something and I find out later I’m leasing the car and so that was a mess. So she kept that car until the lease was up on the first of November last year. Now we got to buy a new car. So she thought she was gonna have money for a car, well, she didn’t and I went out and bought a car. And of course, I drove it until the lease was—It was time to pick up her car and I took her car to her in Tallahassee and that’s the last time I’ve been up there.

M:  What I wondered was are the buildings that you stayed in when you were a student there, are those buildings still there at Florida A&M? The classroom buildings is it the same buildings at the Florida A&M Campus.

J:   If I’m hearing you right, no. There’s no one in Tallahassee that—I lost track of all of those people because that was such a long time ago.

M:  I know it was but— R:  On the campus—

	M:	Yeah, where you stayed and your classroom buildings, are they the same at Florida A&M today?

	J:	No, they are not. The buildings at Florida A&M are not the same as they were then because when I went up there the campus wasn’t too very large and most of





the dorms were wooden buildings. At the time there was maybe two dormitories for the girls that was made of brick and one for boys that was made of brick but the rest of them were wooden buildings, carry-overs from the very earliest times for the school. I was trying to thing of the name of the dorm I lived in, which was a wooden building and just south of that building was this brick building, a dormitory, for the boys. Juniors and seniors lied in that particular building. And across campus, south of my dormitory at this time leading towards the administration building there was a run-down beat-up wooden building sitting approximately halfway between my dormitory and the administration building, right out in the middle of campus. We called it the doghouse. [Laughter] It was really almost a shack, but some freshman students lived there and they kind of had a good time there because they didn’t monitor them too much for some reason. [Laughter] But I didn’t live there, I was happy I wasn’t living there because I know in the wintertime that weather is quite severe in Tallahassee. But they had coal-burning stoves in this old building whereas we had steam heat and whatnot. At that time, the president of the school was J.R.E. Lee Sr. And oftentimes in watching that man—he was quite a large man and a very good- looking man—and he had this big horse that he would ride. Early in the mornings you could hear him going across campus and around the dorms and whatnot and he’d have on his riding outfit and all of it. One of the other things was he was off campus quite a bit because he was out trying to raise funds for the school. And here again I think I heard about Rosenwald there also. But he was fundraising in Chicago, New York, places like that of trying to raise funds for the school. And





there was a choir, a men’s—I’m sorry, not a choir, there was a choir but I wanted to refer to a quartet that Florida A&M had that was very, very good. And they traveled a lot, these were fundraisers again. There were two brothers in the school, one of them was a freshman—we were all freshman—this was his first year there and he had an older brother who was just a year older than he was or a year ahead of him who was a sophomore, and one guy was a senior, and I think the third fellow was a junior. But it was a very good quartet and at certain times of the year they would go out—especially in the spring of the year—for these fundraisers for the school. I’m talking about my wife again, she’s a very quiet person. Funny thing, we were both born under the same sign, Sagittarius. But I sometimes feel that we are quite different, that sign thing doesn’t mean— the Zodiac whatever. I think when it gets to us it just doesn’t gel. She’s a very nice person, she’s quiet and easygoing, that kind of thing. So Jacob Johnson ended married, living in Fort Meyers, never getting to Arizona even today.

	M:	Mr. Johnson, I’ve been wanting to get on tape if you don’t mind a little biographical information and school, Williams Academy School information, on the two boys who were so violently murdered in the spring of 1924. What were their full names, their families, what year were they at Williams Academy, that sort of thing if you don’t mind talking about it.

	J:	Well, no, I will say that this occurrence, this happened shortly after my first year in school there at Williams Academy in the school year of 1923-[19]24. School had just closed a week or two before this terrible occurrence took place. I say occurrence but actually the murder of two boys from the community, these boys





were older than me but I knew them both. RJ Johnson and Milton Wilson. I knew more about Milton because on several occasions during the lunch hour, walking home from the Knights of Vivian Hall where I was in classrooms there, he would give me a life on his bicycle to the corner of Cranford and Marcus Street. Milton lived on Marcus, two doors or two houses east of Cranford, so he would let me off at the corner and I would walk two blocks to my house on Lafayette.

And of course, I would have to walk back to school. I don’t remember ever having been driven back to school by Milton, but I do remember on several occasions he did drive me from school during the lunch hour. And Milton lived there with his—I think at that time he may have had two sisters living there with the family, the mother, the father, two sisters, and a younger brother.

	M:	Do you know their names?



	J:	I remember the younger of the two girls whose name was Lee. I recall Lee and I want to think Bertha for the other sister. Phil, who was a younger brother to Milton, told me that these girls were sent north shortly after the murder of their brother. They lived there in New Jersey for many, many years. I was told a few days ago that Lee now lives in Connecticut, she still lives with the other sister.

	M:	What grade do you think Milton was in at Williams Academy?



	J:	That’s hard to say, maybe, let’s say maybe sixth grade, I don’t know. Because during that time usually just like in my case, grade-wise and age-wise, the average child was a year or two behind in grades as compared to age. In my case, because I started school late, I think no schooling and part-time and what





not, quite a few of the others had the same things. Now about RJ, I didn’t know his parents other than I did know his father.

	R:	Mother died.



	J:	By seeing him at work. But RJ’s mother had died shortly before this incident, sometime not too many months before this incident. And the father was working and try9ing to keep his children together and there were several children in the family, maybe as many as four or five.

	R:	Older sisters.



	J:	Carol, one of his sisters, was a classmate of mine in first and second grade. It seems as if after this incident we became classmates.

	M:	Where did the Johnsons live?



	J:	The Johnsons lived on Larmie Street between Cranford and Palm. And there’s not much I know about RJ, as I said earlier, and I don’t know that too much about Milton other than the associations that we had—he was a very friendly person and I certainly appreciate that he was nice because it got me over the hump there getting home, gave me a little more time. But the day that these murders May the 26th, 1924, on a Sunday, is when the accusation was made that these boys had raped two white girls out in the south of town where they had been swimming in a pond out there. That is the story that was told that the rape had taken place. Which the Black community definitely felt never occurred, that it was prefabricated by this White man who came across them swimming. Logically, if these boys and girls knew each other and each other’s homes in a sense, because Milton’s mother was doing the laundry for one of the White families. And





the clothes were delivered or carried between the two houses by either the girls or Milton. Now it is generally spoken of that they were friendly, but no truth to the rape part. These young people were out swimming and one of the girl’s younger brother was with them. But I understand the man saw them there together and he just told this story and of course there were people of that element who wanted this to occur because they accepted it. And whatever the girls said or however they denied it, they were brow-beaten and whatever, I’m sure. The girls stuck out for the longest kind of time that it ever occurred. The boys said it never occurred. But they wanted to kill somebody, which they did. I did hear later that one of the girls said, “yeah,” I guess she was beaten down that the boys had raped her. But everyone felt, even as a small child hearing this story, that there was no truth in this and these boys had just been killed for no reason other than they were there with these White girls. Now, I had no idea what was going far so far as this occurrence when it took place other than late at night when these men came into our home, somebody was knocking on our door or pushing our door down then breaking it in. It frightened me to death. You don’t know how to accept this and it’s not until later in the day Monday that we learned what had happened to the first boy, RJ. RJ had been taken on Sunday afternoon and early that evening, I guess they have him a guerilla trial or something, as ugly as it was, a mob. I know he’s frightened to death. And of course, they brought him down here in the heart of the Bottom there in Mango and Cranford—this is where they killed him. I understand that they hung him up on the second story porch of this building right on the corner there. And they let him hanging there for a time.





	R:	And where would this building be today?



	J:	It’s not there anymore, it’s part of Alasko Village now, all that’s gone. Milton was caught on Monday morning, May 26th and turned over to the mob. He was killed, I would say, between eight and nine o’clock in the morning, maybe a little earlier. The story goes that Milton was dragged from wherever they took him—and I think that was supposedly at the railroad crossing there at Anderson and Evans—the story I heard back then was Milton had hidden on this freight train that was to leave, going out of town. It was all made up, so he must’ve spent the night there, because I remember seeing that Sunday afternoon, walking on the railroad tracks coming into town between Lafayette and Saint Charles Street— and of course they would’ve taken him right down into the freight yard. I can imagine he must’ve spent the night there, I’m sure he didn’t go home even though Evans is only a block. Evans Avenue would have been exactly a block west of his house, he lived there on Marcus Street. Marcus Street crosses the railroad at Evans. And he could’ve easily walked down Marcus Street home if he was going to the house but I definitely believe that he did not go home and he hid there in the freight yard and got on this train. Understand that he was discovered by Freedmon or Washman or something that morning before day and turned over to the mob. And another story is the first one I heard was that when he was discovered that the engineer on the train told him he would take him out of town and burn him in the coal car, the coal tender. He said, “I’ll get you out of town and we’ll get on the train.” And this took place that morning. The train pulled off and he got through Anderson and Evans where the tracks cross—I understand that





the engineer blew the whistle frantically to attract the attention of the mob or some of the people because they were all around town. And they came and that’s where they took Milton. And from there I understand they drug him from— down Cranford, anyway, I don’t know where. In some stories says they—Well, to go by Cranford out to the area in which they killed him, they would have had to pass his house. Not pass his house but his house would have been the second house off Cranford east. And I’m quite sure his family would have known what was going on even though they may not have known who or that that was their son and their brother. But then, too, I’ve heard stories where—I think this would have had to have been after they killed him that they brought him there and told his mother, “Here’s your son.” But I believe that was not possible because with all the guns and rifles and pistols and whatever were going on out there that I could hear, there couldn’t have been that much of him left to say, “here’s a body.” They didn’t just shoot him once or twice, that went on for minutes. In fact, I heard later they picked the body up in a basket.

	M:	You could see from your porch—



	J:	I could see from my porch that the general area—I couldn’t see him hanging there from the tree but from the sound and whatever else there and the yelling and hoorahs of the mobs. Yeah I could look out and I knew exactly where they were, but I could not see, say someone hanging from the tree, visually, know. But I could see the crowd, the mob. I never saw Milton.

	M:	But you saw so many—





	J:	So many bodies of people standing around. Horses and wagons and cars. I even think there was an ox cart there, I really do. I don’t know where it came from. But a great number of these people came from out of town, I’m told. [Break in interview]

	M:	Do you mind describing that awful afternoon, what you saw as a little boy on your back porch as this mob gathered to murder a schoolboy?

	J:	Okay, this is actually on a Monday morning. I ventured on the front porch because I saw the people, this mob, walking, running and moving the cars and horses and whatever and the people going towards what is now Edison Avenue and Cranford, in that area of town. And then walking out into the woodsy area there, there was a large tree. This attracted my attention because I had an idea what was going on during this. And, of course, when the guns started firing and the noises that the people were making in general, I went out to see what I could see. And that’s what I saw, a large number of people gathered around, whooping and hollering and firing their guns. Later in the day, of course, we learned what happened there. That Milton had been killed there that morning. And one of the peculiar things about all this to me was what a beautiful day that was. After this is all over, the people are going back to wherever they came from, different places, this is a bright, beautiful spring morning. Even the birds are singing. And I thought that was the most peculiar thing, during that something had happened there with someone that wasn’t the most pleasant thing. Now, I understand this mob was made up from the locals, of course, and people from as far away as Wauchula, Arcadia, Labelle. Now, in that day and time there were not too many





automobiles, so you wondered too, how did they transport themselves from such distances? But this happened and the story is told that had Frank Tippins been in town, in Fort Meyers, this never would have happened. Now, Frank Tippins was the sheriff, but I learned later that even this was said—That Frank Tippins was not the sheriff at this particular time—this was after his tenure, shortly after his tenure is when this happened. And maybe that’s why they said, had this been Frank Tippins in office, this never would have occurred. Because I guess he was that kind of a person. And from what I can understand, the relationship in town, the race relationship, had been very good. And you would never have the idea that it would lead to something like this because as far as I know, this is the first and last lynching that occurred in Fort Meyers. And to me, it was a blight. It wasn’t pleasant. Many of the people didn’t like it, that it would occur in our town, in our county, someth9infg like this. It just didn’t happen.

	M:	And in the aftermath there was a lot of fear because your family moved out to Sanibel?

	J:	Yeah, I really think some people moved away. Some people actually moved away for that reason. But a peculiar thing about this, practically every year following this, during the summertime, something of this nature would occur somewhere in the area. At LaBelle, Florida there, which is thirty miles east of Fort Meyers, I understand it was so bad there if you were Black you did not come through LaBelle. So this had to take place after the lynching here, because if we go back to Moore Haven and how the people traveled from the East Coast to Fort Meyers, they always came through Houston, Moore Haven, LaBelle. Into





Fort Meyers. But now I’m told that Black people did not venture—In the later [19]30s or early [19]40s, my first visit to Labelle, well, the Black people were isolated, some within the southeastern part—I wouldn’t say they were in town, in the general, maybe I shouldn’t say county—but they were so far from downtown Labelle. They were really set aside in the boonies there. In fact, they’re still there as far as I know. It had grown up some now but they were totally isolated from the Whites at Labelle. Maybe that has changed now hopefully but it was that way, I know, in the later [19]30s and early [19]40s in my experience there.

	R:	Wauchula was no— Wauchula was terrible.



	J:	Wauchula changed quite drastically, and I understand that you were kind of welcome there. But the story goes that there was an occurrence where some Black man—he must’ve been a stranger, I think—but anyway, whatever happened, it was the wrong man to them because this was one of these guys who couldn’t be pushed, whatnot, and he had a great surprise for them because when they ganged up on him, he pulled a rifle out of his overalls, or something, the story goes, and started shooting people. And nobody wants to die, not that way. So I understand from that that this man actually shot up people and whatnot and walked on across one of the citrus groves and nobody followed him. Nobody bothered. And that was a change in Wauchula from that.

	R:	And what year was that?



	J:	I have no idea, but it had to be— M:	After.

	J:	Yes.





	M:	I can’t imagine a mother like yours and other mothers being willing to risk their sons in something like this. You all moved out to Sanibel and you said your mother wouldn’t allow your brother to come down from Saint Petersburg.

	J:	Didn’t want him in Fort Meyers because he was nineteen years old—he may have been twenty, twenty-one when he finally came to town.

	M:	And that was your brother, which one? J:	Charlie.

M:  And you mentioned when we talked about this when we were working—not on tape but on a report. You mentioned that one of the schoolboys either Milton or RJ worked for a druggist, had a bicycle and delivered—

	J:	Yeah, they both did, Milton and RJ had bicycles and they had these little jobs, running errands, delivering medicine and whatnot for—I think they were both working out of some drug store. Maybe two different places, but they were downtown quite a bit. That was the kind of thing that was going on then.

	M:	Milton’s father’s name was? Their family was Jones?



	J:	His name was Jackson. I don’t know his first name because I knew Nathaniel Jackson was Milton’s brother, that was my friend.

	M:	Was his nickname Phil?



	J:	Phil, that was a nickname, really. I don’t know why they called him that.



	M:	May I ask you just a quick question about Professor Dickson? Now, when you go into high school, your father has tragically died early and you have these older brothers but it sounds to me, the more I listen to you and Mr. Brown and others talk about Mr. Dickson, that he was a tremendous role model for education, a





very positive force for education. And a lot of you were very impressed by him. I wondered, if you could describe how he worked in the community—not just the school, you’ve talked about that but how he seemed to be regarded in the community and did he live here all the time? Did he live here in the summers, on the weekends? And his family life?

	J:	Professor Dickson, yes. He lived here year-round this was his home. I read somewhere recently he came here in 1921 is when he came to Williams Academy and took over there. But he lived there on Douglas Street, a little bit east of—About middle of the block there East of Price on Douglas, which was one block off Anderson Avenue. There was three vacant lots between his house and the next house east of him. We had a shortcut through there that we would— when we’d leave home off of Price Street and walk through the area there where the Saint John Church is now and right across from it—it’s kind of like an angle over to Anderson to go into town or down on Anderson and Cranford if we were going out there. But I think Mr. Dickson had a tremendous impact on the community, period. He was well-liked by the people and I think he could do things with your children that—God, they’d probably send you to prison today.

But it was all taken in a good spirit because it wasn’t something that he was doing just to punish you or whatever. You must have been doing something that he thought was incorrect. Now, I know on Saturdays and Sundays you may as well have been in school so far as if you broke one of the rules and regulations. If he saw you doing something Saturday or Sunday, Monday you were in his office, and he would chastise you. So you kind of kept yourself clean wherever you are.





Wherever you were, you kind of did the right thing. And he did really liked for the kids to come to school. He didn’t like it too much when the kids would drop out, especially the boys. Why would they leave school? I really feel that he did not go along with that so well, but there was nothing he could do about it. He couldn’t force you into school. So, looking back on the football thing, when the football team got together—and that was one of the reasons he went out, I believe, and got the football team together, hired a coach, all of this. Got the news around in the community that we were going to have a football team this year and went out and talked to the fellows who had dropped out. They were big boys now, larger than they were two or three years later, after they’d been out of school. And told them about “Maybe before you drop out, if I put you in seventh or eighth or somewhere, you are larger now,” and he wants the school to grow, he wants the population of the school to increase. So all of these things, I think, had something to do with—

	M:	Did he always dress well?



	J:	He always dressed well. Always.



	M:	Yeah, I mean Mrs. Rogers borrowed that gorgeous photograph of him from Mrs.



Nixon, he always looked so stunning.



	J:	Now, he didn’t wear a jacket around school every day, but he had that tie on. He had that tie on and many times he had his jacket on because I can remember him going to the parking lot and [Laughter] bringing that strap out here! Boy, he could kill.

	R:	Was he married?





J:  Yes he was married, had one son, James Junior. I know how it started but they separated somewhere, I know they did, because he married several times after he left.

M:   Here?



J:   Who, Mr. Dixson?



	M:	Yeah, he married here several more times?



	J:	No, he never married here. I think he married—Sarasota was the first place. After Sarasota, he was in Arcadia. It seemed like it was—I don’t know if it was Ocala or somewhere. And each time, he married a younger woman. [Laughter] The older he got, the younger the woman had to be.

	M:	You said one time that you used to donate some of the money from your shoe shinery through the school or to Dickson when he took up collections.

	J:	I may have, yes. It couldn’t have been much but—



	M:	But whatever, giving out—That was the Depression. So I mean, do you have any idea what he would have been collecting for in the Depression? Would it be for the football team or the building or?

	J:	The only thing I can think was he planned to get money together was to build Dunbar.

	M:	But that was later. I mean, you were a shoe shine boy later.



	J:	Oh no, no, no. When I was shining shoes later, the school was built and all of this was gone. But I can remember having a shoeshine box earlier, before Dunbar.

And on Sundays and Saturdays, Sunday mornings I would go down on Anderson, my brother and I, not too far from home on the corner. And wait





around and try to shine shoes. Sometimes occasionally we would make a few that way. That way we would have a little spending money, didn’t make a fortune but that was about it.

	M:	Well, all of your life you were very excited about—You persevered for an education all your life and I mean, certainly that was your parent’s influences, because they felt so strongly. But would you say it was Professor Dickson’s influence, too?

	J:	I think so. I think really that because of Prof. Dickson, there was something that rubbed off there also as to why he wanted to go on and get an education. Even after Dunbar had its first few graduation classes—I don’t remember anyone going to college right after. And the people who graduated were girls until Mr. Salters. But he was right there because the first class was [19]29 and he graduated [19]31 so you see, that was right close. And so I know the first two girls didn’t go and the second class was one girl, I think, a Jefferson girl. She didn’t go to college. And Royal graduated and I believe that Richard Robinson—not positive—but I believe that Richard Robinson was in my class, that was [19]31- [19]32, I believe so. I may be wrong. Because Hellen came along a year after her, I think that was [19]32. And Winfred went away to college, graduated and taught school.

	M:	What was their name? J:	Winfred Robinson.

	M:	Do you mind describing your high school graduation? Was there a ceremony, a party? What happened when you graduated?





	J:	Usually, during the graduation exercises, most of the—that was in the very beginning, due to school closing. This strikes something new for the community, you could hardly get seating in the auditorium, because I remember people standing and whatnot. It would be just that full. Afterall, this is, in a sense, something new to the community. And by this time, he had people there who could put on the program and they followed the general intakes for this kind of thing. And on the Sunday before the last week of school, the Sunday before school is out of Friday, we had the baccalaureate service in the afternoon, about three o’clock. This would last about an hour or so, very nice program.

	M:	Who spoke, do you remember?



	J:	They usually had someone to speak. It may have been a local preacher or I don’t know, Mr. Dickson might have even—especially in the earlier ones—he might have been the person. I remember one year, Mrs. Bethune was the speaker for the baccalaureate. I think on two different occasions that Mrs. Bethune was here and I know she spoke at the baccalaureate service one year. And I know he had other people to come in or something, but then it may have been local men. More or less, somebody from the churches. And then on Thursday evening at eight o’clock, I guess, we’d have the graduation exercises. It was a beautiful kind of thing because on Sundays the graduation class marched in from the back of the auditorium and boy, the pomp and circumstance. Is that the name of the? When that came on, and you had to do it right. You know, it’s a funny thing, I see some of these kids that see things now—They would’ve been killed. I don’t know! You had to have a certain step, there wasn’t no you just walked down the aisle





swaggering or something. Oh man, you didn’t do that. And it was beautifully done, you know. The chorus would come in first so after a few years when they had more students it was really nicer, because here the choir would come in, of course. And you had your seating up on the stage all arranged so they came in first, two rows, aisles, up the steps and seated. And then the graduates at the end. And it was really a beautiful thing. The program in general was songs and the speeches and whatnot—there wasn’t too many speeches, which was nice.

	R:	Now, the year that you graduated, who spoke when you graduated? What person, do you remember?

	J:	I don’t remember.



	R:	Your year was 1930--?



	J:	1935. And it was, I think, twelve of us. So for the time that was a big—Although I think the class before us was a little larger, I’m not sure. But twelve students and I look around years later, boy, you see these kids—I thought it was wonderful though, to see so many kids in school and graduate high school. I was really impressed, at the time I finished high school, at the progress that—at that time— that the Black people had made. Here in the town, they had all types of business places, you know? People working, trying to buy homes and doing so, trying to keep their kids in school. I never talk about this but I actually—1935 I said, “Thirty years from now, we will see a tremendous change in the progress of the negro.” I predicted that to myself, I never expressed it to anybody. But just from my observations to see what was going on then, I felt that even though 1935 we are really in the heart of the Depression, and nobody had anything. But the little you





had you made do with. But I did feel that with all the prevailing circumstances that we would really grow and rise about where we were at that time. But I was quite disappointed with it because it didn’t happen and today, of course, it’s much worse. Now, we don’t have any business places, for one thing. Very few, very few. And so it’s a world of difference. I think now, I look at the renovation of Dunbar and I wonder, what is it really gonna look like when they complete it? And my feelings are, even though they say it is, they will not be. There’s already one thing I see there that I thought it was to be in its original state. What it was in 1927 when it was completed. Passing there now, I look over and at the rear of the auditorium there, they have a little porch thing. That wasn’t there, that was never there. So right there, that changes the looks of the place already. Maybe they had a reason for it, but still, I’m saying, if they could go in there and break out all that concrete and redo the auditorium where you have a slanted room there, if you can do that, then why do this? I don’t see it. I think the library is beautiful, I know all that.

	M:	I thought it was supposed to be a faithful restoration?



	J:	That’s what I thought too, but that’s why I am mentioning this. There was no porch-like thing. You had the steps, the bare steps there. Big door, steps. The door into the auditorium was a double door in the center of the room. In the years I was there, I participated—I guess bodies were needed, numbers, whether you were in seventh or eighth grade so that enlarged the group of people who were going to perform there, whether you were in the chorus or whatnot. Maybe you couldn’t carry a tune but [Laughter] they put you in there!





	R:	They’ve done research like you know, maybe the Black history is going and asking questions about the 19-ths-and-that. I don’t think they’ve asked anybody like you and McCutchen and all those in the community about that. But I guess they have a plan from downtown or something, I’m not sure. But I know they have not gone into the community.

	M:	It’s on the national registry, so you’d presume they’d have to have permission to make any changes.

	R:	The blueprints are from downtown, but like you say, how you remembered and all that, they didn’t go back and do that.

M:  Well, why do you think that all of your feeling that thirty years down the road, like 1965, there would be tremendous change? Why do you think it didn’t happen the way you would’ve expected to see it?

J:  Okay, we are in this separate thing— R:  Separation?

	J:	With education. The number of people who, even in my time, who were trying to go away to college. Naturally, if you graduate college, you’re going to have a better life. You’re going to be able to get a better job, do something. So I just felt that now we would probably have businesspeople and maybe not too many politicians because I just look at it from my side, the White man is running things and he’s not gonna let you there. The thought didn’t occur to me that you were gonna have a judge down there or even somebody on the police force, that was a rarity. If you had one member on the police force around here, I can remember that it seems that there always had been at least one Black on maybe the county





and the city. At least one. But I just felt that with education and the progress that was being made, people trying to do a little better, that in thirty years that would have really blossomed. To me, thirty years was a long time.

M:   That is a long time.



	J:	Now, it didn’t occur to me, with those thoughts, I never attached thirty to [19]35 and said, “That will be in the year[19]65.” I never look at it—I don’t know what thirty years is gonna be but I just said thirty years. Yet I know [19]35, in thirty years—

	M:	You weren’t waiting for [19]65 to see—



	J:	The thought didn’t cross my mind as to what year that’s going to be. It just didn’t.



I just said thirty years down the road I think we will have accomplished much, have more independent. You’re’ depending on yourself more. If you’re left alone long enough, that everything will be all right. You’re out there, you’re in your part of town, so be it. I will accept that because that’s the way it is. I can’t change it and really I’m not bothered with this. My mother told me, in talking about Savannah, when she lived there, she said, “Growing up there, it might be a two story building with two families in it. One might have been White, the other may have been Black.” And that could be the same thing on another street or whatnot. And she talked about her teachers, which were white or something, these ladies had—I guess, since slavery time they had come down from the North to work.

Maybe they had some homegrowns then. Because some people had feelings and thought they could help and were willing to do whatever they could to help, no matter because you were Black. I might be able to do some good here, so if I





give my time to that, I do it. And that’s the way it was. Because I know when my sister decided to go to school, she all of a sudden—well, it wasn’t all of a sudden either. The first year when we were out of school, I’m scrambling try9ing to go. I’m the first of the Johnsons to go to college. I didn’t think anything of it at the time, but I was. John Henry wasn’t able to finish high school even because he took on the responsibilities of the family. That meant that my sister, the following year, [19]36-[19]37, now she’s in the fall of the year, that summer she started working on trying to get to school.

	M:	And that’s Bernice?



	J:	Bernice, yeah. So there was this—Mrs. Redwine, Joe Redwine’s wife, there was some association there I think with the Methodist Church. CME, I believe it was, somewhere in there. And she, this lady worked with or did something.

Anyway, my sister ended up getting some aid from that area. And she went off to a college in Augusta, Georgia. And she stayed there, worked and whatnot. She had to get a job, make do, and we would send whatever we could to help. And I remember, I’m now working at the Rendezvous and had a little job, I had money coming in. I remember seeing it was Eastertime and in the Miami Herald there were these shoes that were advertised, I’ve forgotten the store. But back in that time, you could write to them, tell them what you wanted, and they would ship it. So I ordered her a pair of white shoes and a pair of yellow-green—I guess they were yellow-green, I don’t know why I selected the yellow-green, guess I thought it would brighten them up. [Laughter] I said she’ll probably have the only shoe like this! But she enjoyed those shoes, she was happy to have them. So we did





little things like that, I guess. And so when she first—I went up to her graduation—I’ve forgotten what year it was.

	M:	It must have been about [19]39 or [19]40.



	J:	No, it had to be early [19]40s because if I had stayed in school I would have graduated in [19]39 in four years. And so it may have been [19]40. And I went up the weekend of her graduation, stayed around, there was no other family so I went, took the bus up. She had taken a place to stay and I stayed over until Monday, I think. Seems as if I was up there from Thursday to Monday. She stuck around for a while before she came home, I don’t know what was the reason.

She didn’t come back when I did. You know, I remember an incident. I met this guy, he was from Fort Lauderdale and he was there—he was still in high school but he was attending college in the high school department and he was—[break in interview] This fellow may have been from—Well, I said he was still in high school so he may have been a college kid because there was something about a fraternity. And he had this cap on and he and I were going downtown to some place, I was walking with him. And we passed this White barber shop. I say this because, for no reason whatsoever, one of the guys—I guess they were barbers—said, “Hey, here come your brothers.” One of the fraternity brothers was making a joke. We were going about our business, not interfering with anyone. And he’s there on the sidewalk and he makes this statement and it’s a very big joke. For some reason, I remembered that. And I can remember right here in Fort Meyers going down this street—this particular place, it was almost the corner of Main and Jackson Street and these two White guys are sitting in a





car on the curb of a little hotel there and then, “Hey, boy! Come here.” Lord, let me go see what he wants. “You’re mighty clean.” It was supposed to be a nice comment that I’m clean, but why not be clean? What reason? I mean, I know I went to school with two or three shirts and a pair of pants, but you could always wash them. And that’s the way it was because that’s the way we grew up and that’s the way, even after my parents were gone, my sister was there. We did what we could. She took care of the laundry so we made out with almost nothing. It was no big deal either. But things like that, for what reason, I don’t know.

Another time, “You don’t look like some of the other fellows I see around.” Why? Because if I were out in the yard working, sweating and whatnot, that would be a different situation. But if I’m going downtown there in somebody’s store, why shouldn’t I have on clean clothes?

	M:	Well, and also, I mean, your father always dressed well as a farmer and your mother was a person with great pride, and we’re all very much like our parents. We all get taught—

	J:	We didn’t have much, but what we had—



	M:	You did though, you did have a lot. You had a car and a tractor and horses and barns—

	J:	Yeah, I know. Well, my father did not—I know at times, we didn’t have shoes. I know he could have bought shoes, but you might have had to wear them to church, but going to school? You went to school barefoot. I remember the first year at Dunbar and I swore, “When I grow up, I’m gon’ sure have shoes to wear.” We used to come off our walks south on—Well, Poplar wasn’t there then, it was





just a palmetto patch with a path through it. It was a shortcut. So I’m on Poplar and Price and we would just walk out and go on over. By probably lunchtime, that sand is so hot, you were jumping from one clump of grass to another one. [Laughter] I said that’s one thing I’m gonna have! I’m gonna have some shoes!

My feet will not be burned. But that’s some money—That’s why I said I know he could’ve bought something. Well, he did at one time. But then maybe it just didn’t occur to him, I don’t know!

	M:	Well, I think the moment you got past 1926, the Depression hit everybody big time.

	J:	It was different, all right.



	M:	Suddenly, there just wasn’t money.



	J:	No. Another situation happened in [19]26 as you may have heard about. Now, I had been down there all that summer working and we came back to school. We were helping to clear the land and cut the brush and burning and doing everything together and they were plowing and getting ready to plant. Now it’s time for school. Now, we’ve done all of this before school. School opened in September, so we’d come home, go to school. School is out for Christmas, 1926. I’ll never forget it as long as I live. My father took my sister, Bernice, and John Henry out of school for Christmas Break holiday. He took them to Sanibel, right, he had just gotten this truck. And they went down to Sanibel with my dad and Charlie, and they stayed down there and I guess they did some things or whatever. But anyway, when they came back—I think they came back before Christmas Day, it may have been after—but my dad had given them ten dollars





each. And that bothered me, that hurt me. I said, “He didn’t take me.” He’d have got me down there working. But he may have taken them down there to pack tomatoes and stuff because I didn’t do that. I had learned to do that but whatever it was, when they got through, they came in, “Papa gave us ten dollars.” Oh! A ten-dollar bill! And to top that off, there had been a pair of shoes that I wanted.

They were as stylish—back in that day, there was string shoes with the high top. There wasn’t low-cut shoes back then. And I wanted a pair of those shoes and the things cost four dollars but that was just like saying four hundred dollars, you know? And they were real bright, I remember that, English Walkers. [Laughter] I wanted a pair of those shoes the worst kind of way! I’d seen ‘em there in the store and whatnot and they were stylish. I did want those shoes. Christmas is coming up, and I don’t see any shoes in sight. I don’t want nothing. And this guy at the grocery store there, he kind of had taken a liking to me. I sat on the ground and asked him, I may have actually left the yard to go down there. It was just a block and a half away or two blocks because I’m on Price, Douglas, Anderson.

And I may have actually walked out of the yard a time or two, “No, I better not do this.” I know my mother would’ve killed me. If she found out, she would’ve killed me dead! So I didn’t get my bright tan shoes. And I wanted them. If there was anything I ever wanted in life, I wanted those shoes. Because I don’t know, that was more for one pair than I had ever seen anybody with. Four dollars! Oh! By then we was buying shoes for a dollar or ninety-eight cents or something. But most of that stuff my mother ordered.





	R:	You’ve mentioned a lot of other business, but I’ve never heard you and Mr.— Lord—say anything about Mrs. Payber. Do you remember her or was she?

	J:	Yeah, I remember her very well.



	R:	Did she kind of do anything that we left—we kind of leave her out sometimes in talking about her. But do you remember some of the things?

	J:	Let me finish this and I’ll say something about her. Be sure to mention it now, don’t let me forget about it. Getting back to that ten dollars, when my brother and sister came home and showed me that ten-dollar bill—each had a ten-dollar bill! I said, “Wow, I want that.” Daddy didn’t take me down there with them and now he gave them money. So I said, “Maybe he might give me five” for what I’d done that summer. And if he does that, I’m gonna get those shoes. But I don’t dare tell him about these shoes though, my mother or anybody. And a day or so passed and no five dollars, no nothing. In the meantime, also, he had just gotten this truck, and he taught them how to drive the truck. He taught them how to drive the truck and everything else, “Papa got this truck,” wow, learned how to drive, my sister.

So here I am, in Fort Meyers, no money. But I think it grieved me, oh, it bothered me. And I remember one night, I guess, I laid in bed and I brooded over that thing and I cried. I cried and I cried and I don’t know, I was in bed with my brothers and whatnot but they might’ve heard me sniffing. Nobody said anything. So that night, I guess after I got through crying and whatnot, I thought, “Well, don’t be so hurt over it. Whatever happens happen. And don’t feel that someone has to give you something or whatever.” And I swore that night, I said, “I will never cry again.” And I don’t think I have. I really did.





	R:	You never got those shoes?



	J:	I was ten years old, I didn’t get the shoes, and I swore off crying. [Laughter] I said, “That’s not fair. My daddy could’ve given me five dollars.” I know I wasn’t down there but if he gave them ten, I mean, he could’ve given me five. If I had asked him, he may have given it to me. But I wouldn’t dare ask him for five dollars, nonetheless four dollars to get the shoes, even.

	M:	Do you have any pictures of your father?



	J:	Yeah, I have one. I don’t have one of my mother. And it goes back on my father’s side, I have seen a family picture of his father. Now, I don’t know if his mother was on that picture or not. She may have been, but then she may not have been because I think his aunt was the one that showed it to him. I think she would have pointed out her mother if she had been on it.

	M:	But the Al Piper business is because we’re using a picture of her in this report, it just occurred to me that Mrs. Rogers had brought that beautiful photograph of Al Piper as we were working and it occurred to me we didn’t have any female picture. But it was such a beautiful picture and since she was a businessperson, I wanted to use it. But it would be interesting to know your memory of her.

	J:	I’ve seen that picture at the old courthouse, it’s a very nice picture and I was surprised when I saw it there. I really was surprised because it never would have gotten there many years ago, that’s for sure. It had to be in modern times, we have that to remember of her. But I knew Mrs. Parker, I’d say, very well. I was in her home several times and whatever. She was quite an outgoing person, she did things in the community. When my brother finished high school, he was to





have gone to Tuskegee on some kind of scholarship through—I don’t know if, what’s the group, not the Masons, what’s the other group that they had? They just pushed the old building down there on Anderson.

R:   The Elks Club?



	J:	Elks. Yeah, she was very much into the Elks and she got my brother into it. She was gonna see that he got a scholarship to Tuskegee. In fact, he did go up there btu when he got there he found out that all the arrangements had not been made and they were not aware of the situation, so he had to really come back home.

After having gone to Tuskegee to finish school in 1937 and he’d been up there in September. But Mrs. Piper, well, even myself and my brother, kind of knew her in a way where she’d call me Jake and Jay, that was his name. James. I remember one year she bought a new car and I was at Mrs. Shoe’s house. Mrs. Shoe did some of her laundry, I don’t think all of it but certain items. I was there that afternoon, I was kind of around the Hughs family, and I happened to be there when she came that particular afternoon driving her new car, a big Buick. And, “Jay, see my car!” “Yeah.” “Give her a go, drive around the corner, see how you like it.” I said, “Thanks but no thanks, my luck I’d go down and wreck the—” [Laughter] But she was just that kind of person, I mean, people would drive her car and whatnot and she was just like that. But I told her, no thanks, just my luck, something will happen before I went around the corner and back. So I told her “No thanks, I’ll pass on this one.”

M:   Was she always beautiful? Was the always dressed up, always stylish?





	J:	Well-dressed person. And I don’t know, I guess some people thought she was kind of whatever when you get to the foot square, you don’t think well of a person, but I think she was alright myself. Because she didn’t think that she was such a snob that she wouldn’t speak or associate with you. Whenever she saw you, she always spoke. I didn’t expect her to invite me in her home, which she did at some time , you could go there. But I didn’t expect to go to her house to sit and have dinner with her or run around her place. And number one, she was an older woman and I didn’t think she was an associate of mine. But then she was a friendly person, I did know her personally. She knew me and my brothers, sister, and she knew the situation of the family. So maybe that was why she helped me, because I know when she was interested in my brother going to school, she said that “Hey, you’ll have to join the Elks. Become a member of that, because that’s one of the first things you have to do, and we’ll work from there.” Which he did, he became an Elk and he thought everything was arranged. And we got him together and got a few dollars together, packed him off to Tuskegee.

	R:	When did her name become Harvey?



	J:	She became a Harvey after she met Meredith. The soldier, in World War II. R:	In the [19]40s?

	J:	It had to be in the [19]40s, I guess towards the mid-[19]40s, [19]45, [19]46. Wait a minute, I think she married him just before the war ended, I’m not positive. But I think she did. Before the war. And this had to be in [19]45, [19]46. But he was stationed here out at Buckingham Field I think at the time that she met him. That





was a surprise too. She had in her beauty parlor there, Ann Heard was a beautician there. One of the most beautiful women, I thought—

	R:	Spell it, H-E-A-R-D, Heard?



	J:	H-E-A-R-D, Ann Heard. She was a very pretty woman. Kind of unusual, too, because she conducted herself in a manner where she was very respectable, it didn’t seem like whatever. And I guess she knew when to draw the line or tell a joke or where to step off or something. [Laughter] Because I never knew anything where in her association with the opposite gender where anything came down that wasn’t pleasant about her. But she was a beautiful woman, I thought, very pretty. Ann Heard. Now, back in the [19]20s before the Depression is when Mrs. Piper had her bottling company.

	R:	The Big Four Bottling?



	J:	Yeah, was that it? That was at the back of her housefront, she had that whole corner from Mango and Evans to the alleyway there. And her house fronted on Evans, and the Big Four warehouse was at the back of the lot, fronting on Mango. Seemed like it was a green, metal building. She had a delivery truck and everything. I think it lasted up until things got slow with the Depression.

	R:	I read something where she did make a finance to the hospital and Williams Academy, do you know anything about that?

	J:	No, I don’t. But I’m sure she did both.



	M:	What was the cola? What was the drink?





	J:	A variety, I don’t know, she may have had a cola but I think they were all flavors.



I’m not sure, like grape and orange and peach and stuff like that. There may have been a cola.

	M:	Did she do well with it?



	J:	Yeah, for the time being. And that’s what I’m saying, it seemed as if she did all right up until the Depression came about and things got slow and everybody was losing out and whatnot.

	M:	What were the Big Four? R:	That’s a bottling company.

	M:	I mean is that the flavors? Did she have four flavors?



	J:	It may have been, that never occurred to me. But it could have been, I don’t know.

	M:	Because you described three right there: grape, orange, peach.



	J:	Well, that was the name of the company and that may have been. Maybe she had four flavors and that was the reason she called it the big four.

	M:	There must have been a reason.



	J:	And I’m not sure but it seemed like the bottles—I know when all the bottles were small and whatnot, if you see the new Cokes that come out, that’s what the Coca-Cola looked like back then, five cents. I remember going through South Carolina in 1939 and had to pay—is it ‘:39? Time to go?

	R:	Go ahead.



	J:	And I bought this Coke and I said six cents! Six cents! Coca-Cola is five cents!



Not in South Carolina! [Laughter]





	M:	Well, I want to thank you and apologize again for how long we go in these but this is extremely valuable information, isn’t it Mrs. Rogers?

	R:	I always know it is.



	M:	And it’s your fault that these go so long because you make them very enjoyable. J:	Did you turn that off yet?



[End of interview] Transcribed by: Abby Lovett

Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, July 1, 2021 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, July 12, 2021