AAHP 732; Washington; Page100







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 732 Frank Washington 10-1-2019 Interviewed by Joe Hartman on October 1, 2019 241 minutes | 108 pages



Abstract: In this interview, former Marion County educator Joe Hartman interviews Frank Washington, a lifelong educator and school system administrator in Marion County. Washington recalls his childhood in Ocala and his desire from a young age to become a school principal. He remembers the efforts of his family and siblings working on their hundred-acre farm, which remains in the family to this day. Washington went on to attend Florida A&M University on a football scholarship, later earning a master’s degree and working as an teacher, administrator, and personnel director for Marion County School Systems. He and his late wife Barbara had two children together, and Washington is a grandfather to five grandchildren. He remains involved with his local church and his fraternity.



Keywords: [Ocala, education, segregation, integration, Jim Crow, administrator, principal, Marion County, Black community]



AAHP 732

Interviewee: Frank Washington Interviewer: Joe Hartman Date: October 1, 2019

	H:	Good afternoon. My name is Joe Hartman, and I’m here with Frank Washington at his home in Ocala, Florida. It is October 1, 2019, and we hope to get some information from Mr. Washington about his childhood, about growing up here in Marion County, or wherever he grew up and his career as an educator. He finished out as the personnel department with Marion County School System. So, with that, let me ask you to tell us your full name and when and where you were born.

	W:	Okay, thank you. My full name is Frank Washington Junior, and I always like the junior added because I want people to know it was two of us at least. I was born in Belleview, Florida, on September 2, 1939, which makes me a few days— now—over eighty years old.

	H:	And you were born there, how about your parents? Where did they come from and how did they get to Belleview?

	W:	All right, very good. My mother was born and raised where I was born, in other words, in Belleview.

	H:	And what was her name?



	W:	Her name was Elouise, E-L-O-U-I-S-E, Brown Washington, when she got married.

	H:	Right. And her family came from Belleview?



	W:	My grandmother was from Santos. And my grandfather was from Belleview. H:	And do you remember them at all?

	W:	Oh yes.





	H:	Well, let’s start talking about them or if you know anything about your grandparents then we can talk about your great-grandparents. I mean, we can talk about your grandparents, how about your great-grandparents? Were they from that area as well on her side of the family?

	W:	My great grandmother would have been from Santos. That was my grandmother’s mother. I did get a chance to see her, and she lived in Eustis at the time.

	H:	Do you have any idea how she ended up in Santos? W:	No, I don’t.

	H:	Okay, but that was where she was from? W:	Yeah.

	H:	Okay.



	W:	Yeah, that’s where my grandmother was from and my great grandmother, but how the others got there and where they came from that point, I don’t know.

	H:	Well, let’s talk about the Browns then. Tell me about your grandparents.



	W:	Oh, my grandparents. My grandfather’s name was William Brown and my grandmother’s name was Emma Jean, J-E-A-N, Brown. She would have been Wright-Brown, Emma Jean Wright-Brown, W-R-I-G-H-T.

	H:	What do you remember about them?



	W:	Oh, my grandfather I think was around seventy years old when I was born. H:	Wow.

	W:	But I had a lot of time with him, eight, nine, ten, eleven and on up. Not only that, on up through—I was eighteen when he passed. It was my first year in college





and I was home for Christmas and he was sick then, getting ready to pass, I assumed. And the first day I got back in January after Christmas they called me and told me he had passed. So, I was there that week and then I came for a weekend for the funeral.

	H:	So he was seventy when you were born, was he still working or was he retired at that point?

	W:	He was working at home.



	H:	What kind of work did he do?



	W:	Farm work. I was raised on a hundred- and thirty-two-acre farm. It was land that my great grandfather was told that all the land he cleaned up with his boys was his, and he cleaned up a hundred and thirty-two acres. And that was during slavery, just after slavery.

	H:	I was about to say, right after the Civil War.



	W:	My grandfather was born in 1867, which was two years after slavery. So, therefore, my great-grandfather was a slave.

	H:	This is all during Reconstruction, and he got a hundred and thirty-two acres and farmed it.

	W:	Yeah. When I was raised up, my grandparent’s house was up on a hill and she had a granddaughter that lived down to the back, east of them just down about a city block. And then my first house I was raised in was really my grandparent’s when my granddaddy was born. It was a two-story house. And that was damaged by a storm in September—it must’ve been September of 1945, something of that nature. No, [19]44, because I started school. I was taken to





school, my mother carried me when I was five years old but I wasn’t old enough because I wouldn’t be six until the next September.

	H:	And they didn’t have kindergarten, this would have been first grade?



	W:	Didn’t have kindergarten. However, my sister had gone at five and she was four years older than me and they kept her. So that’s why my mother carried me, but I so vividly remember those—during that year of being five at home and so on, I so vividly remember things that happened. My daddy, they tore his house down and took the lumber, that inside lumber and old Joices and all that stuff, good stuff.

And they built the house across the railroad, the one where I was raised up in.



	H:	And they built it themselves or they had?



	W:	Yes, they had a carpenter come there because he didn’t have anything but a hatchet, a saw—

	H:	And handsaw.



	W:	Handsaw, and hatchet, a saw. Very few of the things today he had.



	H:	And you remember that, actually tearing the house down and building it?



	W:	Yeah, I remember riding my grandfather’s mule and a wagon and carrying that stuff across the railroad. I remember a little nail scratched me on the hand and they were concerned, they didn’t want me to get tetanus. I really remember back to about four years old, my mother didn’t believe sometimes and I would tell her about people and she—you know, knew. And she said, “No you were too young to know him or her or whatever.” I could describe—

	H:	You could describe them, right, I see.





	W:	Didn’t believe that. And so anyway, my grandfather and I in the summer used to go back in the woods out in the Silver Spring shores area where—

	H:	Way out there.



	W:	It would be way out there. Sometimes I’d be afraid but my granddaddy could look at the sun and he would know exactly what time of day it was and come right on back out of there.

	H:	And you would go out there and do what?



	W:	We would light wood stumps—call ‘em “light wood stumps”—for the winter because they had a fireplace.

	H:	To get the fire started?



	W:	Yeah, and he would be stocked up for the winter. And I just had the joy of going along, driving with the mule. That was my joy.

	H:	So you would ride all the way out there with a mule and a wagon, all the way out to Silver Springs Shores.

	W:	In the woods, that wasn’t Silver Springs Shores at that time. H:	So, that would take a long time to get out there?

	W:	Well, it’s not far. You know, it’s four or five miles. H:	Is that all it was from Belleview-Santos to—

	W:	Well we live—all right, if you know where Belleview School is, Belleview-Santos School. Well, if you come down just over that hill and you turn off and come up through there, when you get into an opening that was our land, from that point on.

	H:	Your land was on that side, okay.





	W:	yeah, on that side and the railroad divided it. So, we had one side of the railroad and then the other side was even more land than was on this side.

	H:	And you would go with your granddaddy just the two of you out collecting stumps. How would you collect stumps? Did you have to cut them off or bust them up or cut ‘em with a hatchet?

	W:	Most of the time they were out of the ground. See, back during the years you used to have all out there would be fires in certain times of the year. And those fires would burn all night and all day but there was no harm so nobody really worried about them. And so you would have burned light wood stumps that would be easy to dig around a little bit and then keep working with ‘em.

	H:	And throw ‘em in the wagon and bring ‘em back.



W:  Yeah and then some like you said, you had to cut some. That’s what we did. H:  And you were your granddad’s helper?

W:  Yeah, I was my granddad’s helper. And I just regret that I didn’t know to ask him some of the questions that I would’ve liked to have known about slavery and that kind of thing today.

	H:	So, he would’ve grown up— W:	[inaudible 11:15] of slavery.

	H:	Right, right before the war, yeah.



	W:	Born two years after. He was between—what happened between 1867 and 1899 and so on. And he would tell me stories about how his mental fighting, somebody was talking to him about an event, before he knew it he grabbed ‘em and butted ‘em and probably bust their head open right there. He had a hard head. He only





had—and that was his method of fighting, butting. And I remember the only headache that he ever said he had, and that was when he was sick and getting ready to pass on.

	H:	But a man of strong convictions it sounds like.



	W:	Oh yes. And my grandmother, she took in washing back in the years but she was a home mother.

	H:	Took in washing, people would bring their clothes out for her to wash.



	W:	To wash and that kind of thing. But they had five girls and three boys, so it was even, my mother and her siblings.

	H:	These are all your aunts and uncles then?



	W:	Yeah. And like I say, the aunts for children that were here, one way up down behind her and then like I say, another one was closer. We were down on west of her down by railroad and then I had another aunt that lived on the other side of the railroad and then an uncle moved back to Marion County and he was living over near her.

	H:	Was that all on that a hundred- and thirty-two-acre farm? W:	Yeah. There was plenty of space.

	H:	And what kind of farming did they do?



	W:	Watermelons and corn, peas, we would sell peas and have dishpans of peas. My mother would go and sell them the next day. We all farmed and had our own.

And the thing about it was my grandparents were smart enough that they deeded their children land. All of them had their own deeds. It didn’t become—what you call it? Heritage or—everybody had their own deed.





	H:	While they were still alive, they didn’t wait until they died. They actually divided it up so your parents had their section, your aunts and uncles all had their land.

	W:	And it was my grandfather and his brother that were still on the land. So mama had first cousins that was raised up there too. But on that side, a lot of the first cousins left and they were around. But one of the first cousins that was a preacher, he was there and his children were raised there. but all those others, those first cousins, their children were raised elsewhere but they had done the same thing, because he didn’t have as many children as my grandfather had. And his children got seven and a half acres a piece, and my mother and other siblings got four and a half acres a piece.

	H:	But when you farmed you would farm it together and take it to market together then or each family would do their own?

	W:	Some each family did their own and yeah, we didn’t farm it all together. My momma, when I was a boy I plowed, we had a horse. I plowed; I couldn’t wait to get home in the afternoon from school to plow. I loved it. And we planted peas and okra and that kind of stuff, and the others did too. I know sometimes when we picked peas, we would take half up to my grandmother and they would have a pea shelling that night. Momma would give them some of what they had but it was hers and she sold it the next day and the same thing would happen with the others. But they planted their watermelons, now sometimes it may have came— my daddy planted watermelon was one of the troubles, something of that nature. But basically, everybody did—





	H:	And all the harvesting was done by family members? You didn’t have outside people coming in helping with the harvest, tending it. It was all family.

	W:	No, not help. The only time, watermelons, we may have gotten some young boys or something to help but other than that, even when we had watermelons the other brothers and brother-in-law, and there was one, my youngest one’s husband was there, he was a brother-in-law. And then all of ‘em had—we had brothers-in-law until they died or whatever and they would all help each other.

	H:	With all the folks living out there how did you get to be the special one to spend time with your grandfather? Because you had cousins and everything else. How did that happen?

	W:	They were older than me. I was the baby of the family, they were all like, six, seven years older than me.

	H:	Maybe they had had some special time but when you came along it was just you and your granddad together.

	W:	They were either in school—well, even when I first started with him—they were in school, they worked summers and that kind of thing. I know one was in the DCT program and—well, both of ‘em because they had after school jobs and that kind of thing. So, they weren’t around to play with me anymore. But I had good times with them now. When they were around, they were going to school at Belleview- Santos. I had good times with ‘em. And then they still were around even when they were in their upper teens because everybody didn’t finish school then. Now, I have a couple of cousins that they stopped school but they still, when they came home from work or what have you, they would come down to the house.





And my dad worked the railroad. He was from Charleston, South Carolina. My mother was raised right there in Belleview.

	H:	What did he do with the railroad?



	W:	Well, built the railroad and worked it. They had to line those tracks up and everything.

	H:	So, he was actually working on railroad construction and maintenance on the rail line at South, okay. Did he cut the rails then, too? Was he involved in that?

	W:	Oh no, he didn’t cut the rails but whatever laid the rails down there, they had to line ‘em up. I have one of the tools right now today, a level that they used to line those tracks. And see, there are a number of them and they would synchronize together with some type of little song or something and then all together they moved those tracks.

	H:	Working as a team.



	W:	Move those tracks, yeah. And he did that and that was one of the best jobs a Black man could have at that time, working the railroad. Good pay, had a retirement.

	H:	Oh, he actually had a retirement?



	W:	Retirement, yeah. And then could go to the commissary and buy food at the commissary. So, to be a man workin’ the railroad at that time—

	H:	And what was the name of the railroad back then? Do you know? W:	The Seaboard.

	H:	Seaboard, okay.





	W:	Seaboard, that was the main one that came down by our house and then—now, when they used to come into Ocala it was two tracks.

	H:	That’s what I thought.



	W:	One was the Seaboard, the Seaboard came around the curve by the building there in Ocala, and it came around and still today, it’s the one that goes south. But it came around the curve and then came west and then another curve that took it around southwest and southeast, and it went on down south to Miami and so on. Then the coastline came straight behind the building and went down and went out near in the Silver Springs Shore area and came around and came around where Lake Whittier is. Used to be a railroad came around there and then it curved and went around through Leesburg. Because my cousin and I, when they were taking up those tracks we went down getting crossties. And then fishing I used to see a train come along by Lake Whittier.

	H:	So which rail line did your dad work for then? W:	Seaboard.

	H:	He worked for the Seaboard then. W:	That was the main line.

	H:	Would they pick him up or would he have to drive somewhere?



	W:	No, my dad walked. My dad, when he was in Charleston, South Carolina as a boy—that’s where he was born, and he was caddy. He would go to the golf course and caddy.

	H:	In South Carolina?





	W:	Yeah. And didn’t have very much school, I think about third or fourth grade probably as far as he went. And he was a pretty good golfer too, and he said one time a man that he carried for wanted to carry a note with him, and he said, “No.” He didn’t want to get in trouble. Anyway, one day he and a friend asked the man about a job on the railroad. His parents had died when he was eleven years old, he said, and they live with the first cousin, and I knew her. We used to go up there and visit Cousin Bertha. And that was his first cousin. And she was a little older than them. But anyway, he said they asked the man for a job and the man said, “Well, y’all a little young.” He was sixteen at the time. Said, “I couldn’t hire you here in town, but if y’all walk down the railroad in the morning about a mile or something like that, I’ll pick you up.” So that’s what they did.

	H:	So he started up there in South Carolina working for the railroad? W:	Well, he got on the train there.

	H:	Oh! He just got on the train.



	W:	They brought him to Florida up in Pensacola area. H:	As a sixteen or seventeen-year-old?

	W:	Sixteen-year-old. H:	Left his family?

W:  Left his family, they didn’t know where he was for two years. He didn’t get back in touch with ‘em or anything and they thought he was dead and he was making the railroad up in Pensacola. So, he decided to go back home after two years to visit. Cousin Bertha said she was sitting on the porch in a rocking chair and she saw a man come walking up the road, tall, slender man. And my daddy—there’s one





thing in our family, our right leg is kind of bow. And she saw that kind of bow walk and he got about close enough and she discovered it was him. And she said she took off that porch and ran down that road; she thought he was dead. And I know that was a joyful time.

H:   I bet.



W:  Now, I actually heard her tell the story and then the last week that he and I were together, we took a ride that I didn’t know that I wouldn’t have a chance to talk to him like that again.

H:   This is many years later of course.



	W:	Yeah, when he died he was eighty years old and we took a ride together. He let all this that I told you then, he really told me some things. As we were riding, he was telling me about various things. As a result of that railroad and being around adults and that kind of thing, my daddy could tell some stories, good clean stories about Jack. And Jack did everything, and I mean, Jack was something.

H:   Was Jack a fellow he worked with?



	W:	No, that was a made-up story, whatever. H:	He’d make up the story, okay.

	W:	I guess that’s what they sat around and did because he said he never went out juking and all that kind of stuff. He sat around adult people when he was sixteen, seventeen. He didn’t get into going out to the jukes and all that kind of stuff. He sat around, listened, and learned from those older people.

	H:	After he came and visited in South Carolina, did he then go back to Pensacola?





	W:	He went back to Pensacola and then at some point they came down to Saint Petersburg and worked the railroad there. And when he and my dad-in-law got together years later, I’m married and everything, he and my dad-in-law got together, found out my dad-in-law was down there the same time working, constructing roads. The same time he was working railroads. But they didn’t know each other or anything like that. And then after Saint Petersburg they went over to Withlacoochee. That’s a little town outside of Dade City, Withlacoochee. And they were there for a period of time.

	H:	Still working the railroad?



	W:	Still working the railroad. And then they came to Summerfield. Now, they lived in these boxcars. They had boxcars fixed up with beds and things. And then the cook and everybody—

	H:	These are all-male crews, probably all Black, I would imagine. W:	Yeah, I’m sure it was but the boss was White.

	H:	But the boss was White. W:	[Laughter] Yeah.

	H:	And he probably did not sleep in the railroad car. [End of interview]

	W:	No. Well, I know the one in Summerfield didn’t because his name—what was his name? I know where he live and everything. Mister… I can’t think of his name.

My mother had a boss named Mr. Clyde and that’s the only name I can think of right now. But this man, Mr. Clapper, Mr. Clapper, that was his name. He lived right up in Summerfield, his house was there and the boxcars were right down





there on the railroad. So, about three blocks up—three city blocks—he was up from there. Now, my daddy—

	H:	Did he stay with the same crew going around to all these different locations or was it different crews and different groups of people?

	W:	I would think that it was the same crew.



	H:	Same crew. They would go with the boss to all these new locations putting down new railroad.

	W:	I don’t know Mr. Clapper—because I think he was from Summerfield at least he had a nice home there. I don’t know whether he was with the crew or the crew came to him or what.

	H:	But in any case, they ended up in Belleview— W:	No. Ended up in Summerfield.

	H:	Summerfield, that’s right.



	W:	But they had never been up in Belleview. He was there two years before he met my mother. And he met her by coming to churches back during that time used to have little parties and cooking and so forth, and the boys and girls they would put the girls behind a curtain and just have their toes out and you’d pick the toes that you—[Laughter]. Pick the toes that you want to eat supper with. [Laughter] And that was your date for the evening.

	H:	[Laughter] Isn’t that—I’ve never heard that story before! W:	I should’ve said feet instead of toes—

	H:	Well, same thing. Yeah. But still, I’ve never heard that story before. W:	That’s how my dad got my mama.





H:   He liked her feet.



W:  He said he watched her—they knew what was gon’ happen but he said he had seen her and so he watched her feet all evening until time for her to go behind that thing.

H:  Oh, so he knew whose feet he was choosing. [Laughter] W:  He knew her toes. [Laughter]

H:   Isn’t that great? What an interesting story.



	W:	So they ate supper together and everything and then he came back, because he was in Summerfield two or three miles down there. But he walked the railroad.

They walked, didn’t have no car. He walked up that railroad and the railroad came right on up to our place, right through our place. So, anyway, he finally got my mother’s company, he asked granddad for her company, and they said it was okay. Now, back during that time, older men did get younger girls. It wasn’t what it would be today, because my daddy was eleven years older than my mother.

H:   And he’d already been working since South Carolina?



	W:	Yeah, and had been here two years before he met her I think. She must’ve been maybe around sixteen, maybe.

H:   And he’s up in his upper twenties it sounds like.



	W:	Yeah. And may have been fifteen, I’m not sure. But then they decided they wanted to get married, so he asked my granddad for her hand. And then after they said yes, then he and mama were talking later, he said, “We gon’ get married but I can’t take you down to those boxcars and live down there. Can I





live here with you all?” She said, “I don’t know, I’ll ask my dad and mama.” So, she asked, and they said it would be okay. And so that’s where he moved.

	H:	So they moved in with the grandparents, with your grandparents? W:	Yeah.

	H:	But he stayed with the railroad.



	W:	Oh, he was a big help to my grandparents because he could bring groceries from the commissary and everything.

	H:	Where was the commissary?



	W:	I don’t know whether it was in Summerfield or Belleview.



	H:	But was the commissary for everybody who worked on the railroad? W:	Yeah.

	H:	It wasn’t a military commissary? It was just for the railroad workers.



	W:	Yeah, for railroad. Now, we did have military. One time, it was a military unit in Belleview because they had a searchlight that shined. And that unit was there for a long time.

	H:	Okay, but when you think of the commissary, it’s the commissary for the railroad workers?

	W:	It was for the railroad. It may have been Summerfield, I’m not sure. But anyway, they were good for him because he didn’t bring anything in terms of nothing but a good job to the table. He had a good job, and he was the type of man that my mother handled the money. Now, my mother was a manager. She was a manger. And my granddaddy was crazy about him because he’s a very





courteous man and good man. He went to church with ‘em. They were just a good relationship.

	H:	So, if your mom got married at fifteen or sixteen she would’ve already dropped out of school or—

	W:	No, she didn’t really drop out of school, because they were married two years before my sister was born. They were married in [19]33 and my sister was born in [19]35. What happened, she went to school to the ninth grade down in Belleview. You either had to have somebody to live with in Ocala to come to Howard Academy—

	H:	Because the Belleview folks—everybody I’ve talked to all around this area, they all came to Howard High School.

	W:	Well, in Howard, because that was the—I think John Ellen had a high school but other than that, from Westdale on north, the whole county—

	H:	The only place that they could come would be Howard.



	W:	Howard. They had a heck of a football team you could pick from like a college.



But anyway, so mama didn’t have anywhere she could stay.



	H:	But she finished ninth grade down there?



	W:	She finished ninth grade. [inaudible 35:54]. She finished where she could— H:	Churn. Exactly.

	W:	And then she went to work and she worked for some people that used to come from North. Those names… they’ll come back to me. The Powells, some people that used to come from North. And she would get up, go down there, full day in





the morning, walk down the railroad. Full day in the morning and go in and have there—

	H:	Just domestic work.



	W:	Breakfast ready and she’d be there all day, doing lunch, doing supper. And at that time, daddy was coming after he married, he would be coming from down in Summerfield and he would walk and they would walk home together. And even when they were courting a year or whatever it was that they did date, he would go and pick her up and bring her home. And he had to walk back at that time.

	H:	So at that point, he’s working on a railroad but it’s not like he was going far away.



He was coming home every night, basically.



	W:	Mmhm.



	H:	All of the work they did was local?



	W:	Oh yeah, at that time. Now, there would be times when a train had a wreck or something like that they had to go and be gone maybe for a week or something. Now, that caused my daddy to quit the railroad. When I was four years old, I used to cry for my dad because my daddy, like I say, he would bathe us at night and put us on his knee and rock us and sing songs and tell stories. And my cousins, teenage cousins at that time, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, even those that had quit school, they would come down to the house to hear daddy’s stories.

	H:	Just to hear his stories!



	W:	Yeah, they would come down to the house, hear stories, and we would go to bed ad they’d lie on the floor and sleep or on the couch and whatever. We’d leave them out there and we’d go in the room and go to bed.





	H:	Are all his stories made up stories or some true stories or a mixture? W:	They were all of him.

	H:	All made up stories, okay, wow.



	W:	[Laughter] Yeah, Jack did this and Jack this. Jack just was everything. H:	So it’s people stories, not animal stories.

	W:	No.



	H:	Stories about people and were they funny or just interesting or scary?



	W:	Yeah, they were. I don’t remember anything scary. Everything was about Jack. H:	Just about Jack.

	W:	But it was no ending to Jack’s stories.



	H:	And Jack was about how old? Do you have any idea in the stories? W:	[Laughter] No!

	H:	He was just a guy.



	W:	He was just a guy, but the things Jack used to do, he had to be young! [Laughter] Like, now, I’ll tell you the type of story he would tell. Like, Jack one time, Jack was on the farm. You know, a slave farm. What you call it? Not a farm—but you call it—in slavery—

	H:	Plantation.



	W:	Plantation. And Jack was a showboat and some of the slaves and everything were having a party down in another place. And he’s gon’ go down to the party, he got the boss man plantation best mule out the lot and he gon’ ride down to that party. Got the master best mule out the lot, and he got down there and boy, everybody saw him. “Jack you rode that mule down here? Boy, that’s a pretty





mule!” “Yeah, yeah, this is my mule.” This that and the other, you know. So, he tied the mule up and went in the party and about an hour later, somebody came in and said, “Who’s riding that big, pretty mule out there?” He steps up. “I’m riding it, I’m riding it.” He said, “Man, that mule is dead.” “Dead?!” They went out there and that mule was dead. [Laughter] He is still the master best mule. So, they said, “Man, how you gon’ get this mule back home.” He said, “Put the mule on my shoulder.” Said, “Boy, you can’t carry that big mule.” “Put the mule on my shoulder! That’s all you got to do.” They put him on his shoulder and Jack carried that mule back home and dumped him in the lot. [Laughter] And then woke up early that morning and woke his master up and told him that he’d been out to the lot to feed up and that big mule was dead. [Laughter] Things like that. I mean, it just goes on and on and on.

	H:	So how many stories, do you remember a lot of those stories?



	W:	I remember some of ‘em, yeah. [Laughter] Everything was about Jack. I could tell some. I haven’t really talked about nothing.

	H:	That would be worth getting down on recorder, do you remember other Jack— isn’t that interesting! And everybody would come to listen to Jack stories.

	W:	I remember him telling something about this panther that was worrying people and so forth, killing up the animals and that kind of thing. So, Jack told himself, “Well, I can catch the panther.” Said, “I don’t know why you gon’ catch a panther.” Say, “I tell you what you just give me an opportunity.” So, Jack sat up and he was gon’ catch the panther that night. And so, he took the bond and opened the door up and everything and Jack went out and was laying around for





the panther. Panther messed around and came up and Jack went to pack in in front of the panther and the panther started at him and Jack took off. And when they got to that barn, Jack went under the barn and the panther jumped in the door. And Jack closed the door and he had the panther. [Laughter] He had all kinds of things that he could make Jack do.

	H:	Isn’t that something?



	W:	I tell you what, with family—My dad-in-law was the same thing. He entertained his family with stories. Their stories was about their daddy, because he was kind of mean. [Laughter] But he became a preacher, and they would laugh and he could tell you about his daddy and other things. But his daddy—his sisters and brothers, when they came together, they talked about the dad. But the thing that really broke all that up, because when I was dating my wife I got to hear some of those stories—

	H:	From her side of the family, mmhm.



	W:	But television was the worst thing that could happen with families communicating and getting together like that. Because when you get together now most of the time you looking at that TV and not really communicating. Same thing with my dad. When I bought him the first television, well, he went to watching TV.

	H:	But you know what I’m wondering just as I’m listening to you, I’m wondering if these are stories that were handed down. Because you just told that story, I don’t know if you told it as well as your daddy did, as well as your father-in-law would have, but I wonder if those stories were handed down or if they were purely his creation.





W:  Probably handed down because he was a young boy among those old men and they sat around at night, so I’m sure he didn’t make those stories up to tell them. I don’t know. But they started—

H:   And the stories were just handed down.



	W:	They were handed down, that’s what happened at that time. H:	Isn’t that interesting?

	W:	And it would be the same way that probably the slaves with their various songs and things when they were gon’ slip away and that kind of thing. They had a way of communicating, and Black people do today. We have a way of communicating. So, it’s always been that the community.

	H:	Except for, like you say, we’re losing it. W:	Oh, yes.

	H:	TV, you’re right. TV started, probably radio before that. Radio had good stories too.

	W:	The worst thing now, they have this telephone that they go on looking at all the time. Now, they got a method of communication through that social media, but it can be nasty and rough.

	H:	Well, and they say it brings people together. I’m not sure that’s true. W:	I’m not sure either.

	H:	Just the fact that you had cousins and folks coming all the way just to hear those stories, that for sure doesn’t happen anymore.

	W:	Oh, no. Yeah, it probably brings people together but you got to be interested in it to really actually go and get with some of these people and that kind of thing. I





don’t know because I really don’t bother with Facebook and all of that. I can’t get interested in looking at something all the time like that.

	H:	What would be wonderful is if you could think of stories, write down a name, and if you were willing I’ll come back another time and just record stories because that, to me, those stories are going to be gone. When you leave, those stories are gone. It would be nice to get those on recording.

	W:	My children, I really haven’t done what my dad did and what my father-in-law did and that kind of thing.

	H:	That’s one of the nice things about these recordings, though. In other words, if you thought of stories after I leave today if you have other stories you’d be willing to share, Jack stories or stories form your mom’s side of the family, the scary ones, that would be great.

	W:	Mmhm. Yeah. Well, let’s see now. That was my granddad. Now, anyway, I grew up there. Like I said, I was the baby of the family around there. I had one more cousin younger than me that was raised in Miami and he’s in Texas now. But now, we into first cousins on. We didn’t have any more aunts and uncles down there. Okay, so I have a cousin in Miami, I think she’s around eighty-eight, that’s the oldest first cousin now. My sister is eighty-four, and then me, I’m eighty. And then the one in Texas, he should be around seventy-six now, because I remember when he was a baby and I was about five or something. Four or five. And when they would come from Miami, I loved children. I’d stand around with that baby all day long, his mom and that baby. And then I have some younger





cousins, my oldest uncle had the youngest children. They are in their late sixties, mid-to-late sixties.

	H:	Do you have family reunions when all these folks get together?



	W:	We have had family reunions. We haven’t had one in a good while, but yeah. I had a good family reunion about two or three family reunions before they stopped. These younger ones now begging to have a family reunion.

	H:	And that would’ve been from your grandparents down? In all directions then.



	W:	In other words, we have a family tree of our grandparents there on the bottom of the family tree and then the branches go out and whose child was whose and so on. And I was the one that did the research and so forth, I talked to a lot of people in Georgia and down in South Florida and that area. I learned a lot about family. And then you have those where somebody had a baby in the family, they weren’t married but they had a baby and we got those out there too. I got some dead cousins or something like that, but boy, they love us and I taught some of ‘em.

	H:	Right here in Marion County? W:	Yeah, the school.

	H:	So no kindergarten. At age six—



	W:	I finally got to school at six. September was my birthday, September 2nd. We used to start school after Labor Day so whenever after Labor Day I went to school at six.

	H:	And where was the school? W:	Belleview-Santos.





	H:	Oh, it was—Okay. This is a—it was already a brick school at that point?



	W:	No, it was one long wooden building. And they had one, two, three—I know it was three rooms on each side. Because for chapel when we used to have chapel on Fridays, one side the doors open up and you had three rooms open for chapel and a stage was up there.

	H:	Would this have been first through eighth? First through ninth? W:	First through ninth.

	H:	Okay.



	W:	Let’s see, yeah, because my sister either went—it moved up maybe to tenth after my mama, I’m not sure now. But mine moved up to tenth and the kids that went to Howard went there two years instead of three.

	H:	When you went there, was first grade self-contained or was it first and second together?

	W:	Okay, now first grade was self-contained but then the next year in second, they were second and third. And the next year we were third and fourth. I can remember those two combinations. In fact, I can’t put my hands on it right now but I got the register that they used to have to keep with the names in ‘em and the parent’s name and all that. When I was a regular personnel, I got my register from first through twelfth. I think the only one I didn’t have was tenth grade, they couldn’t find.

	H:	And at that point the White kids went to school somewhere different? W:	Their school.

	H:	Yeah, that’s what I meant, yeah.





	W:	They went to—it was White and Black, it wasn’t no integration then. H:	Did you know any White kids then?

	W:	White kids that a lot of times the parents worked for and I played with some White kids that my parents worked for and we still friends today.

	H:	And when you say play, what kind of stuff would you guys do for fun? W:	Played marbles.

	H:	I was gonna say, played marbles. I was talking to somebody else, marbles was a big thing back then.

	W:	Yeah, played marbles with ‘em that was the main thing. H:	I heard that baseball was a big thing in Santos.

	W:	Yeah, it was, I played baseball. H:	That integrated as well?

	W:	No.



	H:	It was not okay.



	W:	There was no integration. H:	Other than marbles.

	W:	Yeah. You went to a restaurant, you had to go around the back or whatever they had fixed for Blacks. That was the way of life and that’s what we did if you wanted to take something.

	H:	But as early kids you would play, like after school I guess because you wouldn’t be in the same school. But you said you played marbles—

	W:	That would be because—the ones I played with was because my mother was in the house workin’ and the kids had come home, their parents weren’t there





because they were in a fruit stand. And the kids were there with my mother and I would be there and the boy and I would play marbles and things together. He had a sister, and I would see him—I haven’t seen him in years, but the sister stayed in Belleview. And my mama became her mother. Oh, Lord, that girl loved my mama. And even when her mother was still living she loved her. And then when her mother died, she didn’t have nobody left but mama—Oh, goodness, she loved her.

	H:	So she became almost like a sister to you?



	W:	Yeah, like a sister to me. And the boy, Belleview Heating and Air, that boy, he was a young boy had quit school in ninth grade. I thought he had graduated, he was working with his dad. But he had quit and was working with his dad and I called his dad. My mother’s heater had gone out. The central heat had gone out, and my father had passed away and this was some years after when that happened. And so I just looked in the book because the air conditioning people I used to use in Ocala I hadn’t used ‘em anymore because they pulled a trick on my mama down there, made out like the thing was bad because some guys were working on commission and that’s what they would do. It’s gone.

	H:	Heard that story too many times, same story too many times.



	W:	So I wasn’t using them anymore and I just looked in the book because I was getting into my main season of recruiting, going out of town, and I didn’t have time to go down to my mother’s and see what was going on and supervise. So, I called Belleview Heating and Air and I told the man, I said, “You don’t know me and I don’t know you and you gon’ have to trust me and I’m gon’ have to trust





you.” Told him about what my mama needed and so on and if he would go on and see about it. Didn’t have to worry about his money and I won’t have to worry about whether you doing my mama right. So he promised that he would do the right thing and I told him you can have your money. So that’s what happened.

Well, he left the boy there during most of the work and he was probably—if he was in ninth grade when he quit, that was about fourteen years old, tenth grade is around fifteen, so I don’t know how long he had been but he wasn’t over sixteen. And mama said he sat on the floor and read the book doing the work. And that heater didn’t work right for the first two years. [Laughter] But mama fed him all day long. He can eat, too. My mama, if you were around, she’s gon’ feed you. You had to eat some food. And that little tenth grader, if he had been in school, tenth and eleventh grade, that fell right into his line. He ate all day long and he fell in love with my mom.

	H:	Isn’t that something?



	W:	So anyway, after a couple years of the thing not running the man saw me, but I didn’t know him at the time. We were over at a car place, and we finally got to talk and finally he said, “Wait a minute, what’s your name?” I said, “Frank Washington.” He said, “Oh, my Lord.” Said, “I’m so ashamed of what has happened to your mother, Mrs. Washington, with that heater.” Well, it was an oil five head diesel, because I had one here, and he told me over there he had never done an oil heater. He said electrical, I’ve never done one, but I’ll do it for you. Anyway, he said, “Anytime you get ready to go to electric I’ll give you the best deal possible. When you get ready to do that.” Because they had done





everything to get that prime—In other words, the fuel was coming heat back down and mama have to go push a button and prime it and she shouldn’t have had to do that. Anyway, we finally did put the other heater in. Well, he told mama, he told that boy, said, “She’ll never have to worry about nothing about maintenance with this heater.” Said, “We gon’ take care of her with whatever maintenance from here on.” And he messed around and out in 2002 I was running for school board. And I had gone to him for some assistance in Belleview and so on and we were supposed to walk Belleview and go from house to house. About a week or so before time to do that, he and his wife and another couple had gone out to dinner and coming back, something either happened to him or whatever but he ended up losing control of the van and it turned over and he died. Everybody else lived in the car. So, I never did ask whether he had a heart attack or what happened, but he died. But that boy, that young boy, he’s probably around twenty-one or something then, and he had to take over from there with the family.

	H:	Oh, he took over.



	W:	Yeah. So God does things that—you know, he got in it early and Gpd knew what was gon’ happen in the future and he was ready to take over. But today that boy will do anything. It went bad, because I keep the heat on and the air in the summer and winter, just a little in my mother’s house and if I want to go out there and stay, I do, or if some of the family come, they stay. And it went bad. And that boy put another heating unit in there for me for nothing.

	H:	Didn’t charge?





	W:	Didn’t charge a thing. Because I asked him, “Tell me what you’re gonna charge me for one.” He said, “Nothing, I promised to take care of this for your mother and nobody is in there, that’s what I’m gon’ do.” Just like a brother and his family and everything. So anyway—

	H:	Let’s go back to elementary school. So, you—



	W:	Okay, elementary school. I started elementary school, my first teacher name was Mrs. Harvey. I thought she was the prettiest lady in the world. I was an A student. I have long memories, I always got my lesson and things right. So, I did well in first grade and got promoted to second grade and—

	H:	That was a mixed class.



	W:	In that class we had some kids eleven years old. And we were still—well, I was seven, then I guess. But we had some eleven-year-olds in there. And that was third and fourth grade. And I wondered—I didn’t really know about maturity and all that kind of stuff and they were beginning to get hair under their arms and things at that time. Twelve, thirteen, and I wondered why there wasn’t no hair on me! [Laughter] But in those classes, we got along well.

	H:	Did you like school?



	W:	I didn’t miss a day out of school. In fourth grade I think I missed two days with the chicken pox or something. I didn’t miss a day until fourth and from fourth on through twelfth.

	H:	Is that right? W:	I loved school.





	H:	And what was it about school you loved? Was it the academics, was it the friendships, was it the teachers?

	W:	All of it. I loved the teachers and they loved me. I could get their lesson or my lesson with their assignments and then my friends, I loved them. Another boy and I always competed in the class, we would count to see how many A’s we had on our card. We got it and we just kind of paralleled on through life.

	H:	So you finished in ninth is what you’re saying. Your sister finished in tenth maybe.,

	W:	No, my sister went to Howard.



	H:	That’s what I know I’m talking about down there you finished.



	W:	I finished down there, it had become a high school in about 1954, the first graduating class was 1954. And I was the third graduating class in 1957.

	H:	And remained all Black, so you finished twelfth grade and graduated from twelfth grade at the same school where you went in first grade?

	W:	Mmhm.



	H:	And going to school with the same group of kids the whole time.



	W:	Yeah. And I loved that. I mentioned that no longer I was at an activity where they were recognizing a gentleman for working forty-seven years. Was it forty-seven? Forty-five years he was working with children, coaching and so on. And I said when I was telling ‘em about we used to go to school and we had first through twelfth and actually as you grew up as a kid, you picked out older boys that you wanted to be like. You watched ‘em play basketball, you watched ‘em play





football or whatever and you would pick up skills and things that you would practice.

	H:	Because they were role models for you?



	W:	Role models, yeah. And I can remember in fifth grade a principal came in named Mr. Hart. Now, he stopped us from doing a lot of things that we used to do. For instance, we used to have a little—we called the Black Hawk gang and the Superman gang, and that was extensive. We had that third and fourth grade. The fourth grade was one gang and the third grade was another gang. And boy, we would go up under the school, because the school was high on the end and lower on the back. It had a high porch and you could go up under there. You could almost stand under that first part almost. And we would go up under there and we were trying to keep somebody from catching us—

	H:	This is after school or before school?



	W:	This used to have a big recess and little recess. H:	Oh, recess right.

	W:	This was during big recess. The little recess was about thirty minutes in the morning and the big recess was until noon for lunch.

	H:	Afternoon, right.



	W:	And we didn’t have a lunch room then, you had your lunches, they had outdoor toilets and that kind of thing.

	H:	Outdoor toilets—outdoor flush toilets or? W:	No, outdoor toilets.

	H:	Outhouses.





	W:	Outhouses. But it was a long, long way about seven or eight stools. The girls were over there and we were over here.

	H:	Probably no lights I would imagine.



	W:	Oh, no. No lights. [Laughter] No lights. But anyway, we would tool up and kick sand through our legs under that dry house and then dust would be everywhere. Sometimes the cars would have to slow down on the highway. [Laughter] That’s to camouflage ourselves from the other ones, because if they ever caught you and got you down and you were out in the open from under the house, they gon’ come running from everywhere and everybody gon’ dive and land on that pile until it stack up like that. [Laughter] It’s a wonder we hadn’t killed someone.

	H:	Wow.



	W:	Suffocate or something.



	H:	Mr. Hart came, he didn’t like that is what it sounds like.



	W:	No, Mr. Hart told us if he catch us under the house it could be rattlesnakes or anything under there. And then we had some palmettos that we would go down and play in too, now. I know probably rattlesnakes would be in there. He stopped us from all of that. We would build those palmetto houses, sit about this high, and look out a palmetto and then you crawl up in there and you got your house and everything. But we had fun.

	H:	Sounds like it.



	W:	We had good teachers that cared about you, that knew your parents, see your parents in the store somewhere and talk to ‘em.

	H:	So, the teachers lived down there to?





	W:	No.



	H:	No, they didn’t—



	W:	They came from Ocala, some of ‘em. Mr. Hart lived up in Flemington. H:	But they still knew your parents.

	W:	But one thing we had, too, we had country people like we were. All right. A couple of our teachers were from Santos, Mr. Samuel, which was the science teacher and then Mr. Crosby which was the coach, my coach. Then Mr. Hart was from Flemington, that’s country, and Mr. Fordham, the younger one, you all heard Mr. Fordham—

	H:	This is Edmond Fordham.



	W:	Edmond, yeah. You interviewed him sometime. H:	I did, yeah.

	W:	He was from Fort McCoy, so he was country. And then we had some of the nicest, good-looking teachers from Ocala here, Mrs. Minnie Lamb and her sister Thelma Watson. Were they crazy about me! So, we had good teachers.

	H:	And you said ball, so you were playing ball for the school then or this is after outside? You had a coach that you played ball for you said.

	W:	Oh, we became a football team when I was in tenth grade. H:	Okay, that’s what I was wondering.

	W:	Yeah, I made first string quarterback in tenth grade. And tenth, eleventh, and twelfth, and had a scholarship for Florida A&M.

	H:	I was gonna ask you that. So, you finished up there in twelfth and then left home to go to Florida A&M?





	W:	Mmhm.



	H:	And not too far behind Whitfield Jenkins, I’m guessing. W:	Whitfield was up there just after me.

	H:	He was up there after you?



	W:	Well I mean, he was there the same time. H:	That’s what I thought.

	W:	I think he came my junior year. I only played two years because I had an accident in my eye, I lost interest. But I was in good shape about going on to school.

	H:	And you probably started with a scholarship and then ended up having to pay out of pocket then or did the scholarship—?

	W:	Yeah.



H:   Okay.



W:  I had to pay out of pocket my last two years but it wasn’t a problem because I was making good money. That’s the other thing, in the summer after my tenth grade year I started working for Mount Vernon Motel.

H:   Which is where? I’ve heard of it—



	W:	Mount Vernon Motel was where Marson’s used to be. H:	Yeah.

	W:	Marson’s next-door to it was a motel-looking building that you knew about and because of how long it been here, it was a motel. The First Baptist Church, when their church burned down and they were contemplating on building another church, they split because someone wanted to build back that same place and





then others wanted to build out there where they did build on the road going to Silver Springs. So, that group that stayed in town bought that motel, the motel was going down then but they bought it. But the motel business in Ocala had really gone down because of all of the—

	H:	Sure, sure.



	W:	Like I say, that motel was where I worked.



	H:	And you worked as what? What did you do there?



	W:	They fed you in bed, breakfast. They carried the maids cooked the eggs and toast and jelly and milk and anyway, it wasn’t grits. They didn’t have grits but they scrambled eggs for ‘em. And they would take it to the rooms for breakfast. And I came in at eight o’clock—

	H:	This was before school started, then? Or you said you did this during the summer.

	W:	This is during the summer.



	H:	Just in the summer, I got you. W:	Summers, Christmas.

	H:	Got you, holidays, whatever. So you’d come in after the breakfast—



	W:	And I would start pulling the men in the rooms that had gone. I’d pull the linen and take the breakfast dishes, but I’d pick up the breakfast dishes first and take back in. And then I start pulling the linen off the bed for them to start making it up to a little house we had out there where you carried linen. And then after they got the rooms and were making the room, then I started vacuuming the room. There





was two of us, my cousin and I. My cousin got my the job, an older cousin, one of those that was older when I was a little boy and he got me that job with him.

	H:	You saving money for college I guess at that point is what you were doing? The money you were making—

	W:	Well I wasn’t necessarily saving at that time. I started in tenth grade, so tenth, eleventh, twelfth grade, I wasn’t really saving a lot of money. I was helping my parents, but I had money in my pocket and so forth. And I did save my tips until the end of the summer and dump all that money on the table, fifty cents, quarters, nickels and dimes things on the table and have over seven, eight hundred dollars’ worth of change. My mama went to the bank once with all that change, and she said they put her in a room. They evidently went to check her out or something. She said they didn’t come back for the longest. And then they made her help them count all that change. Bring all this change, loose change. So, then we would start wrapping it after that.

	H:	So you ended up at Florida A&M, played ball for a couple years and stayed on.



Did you have any idea what you wanted to do with yourself at that point?



	W:	Yeah. Well, the first year I was there, I stated majoring in education, physical education. Now, my intent from eighth grade was to be a medical doctor. That was my intent, because I wrote Maharry Medical College in eighth grade. And asked ‘em what did it take to become a doctor and how much do they make and so on. And they wrote back to me and told me—I remember a doctor, they said, made about sixteen thousand dollars a year at that time. So, eighth grade that was 1953—





	H:	And where was this college?



	W:	Maharry Medical College in Tennessee. And that was my intent when I went there with a couple of senior football players helped me fill out my first schedule. And when I told ‘em what my major, I wanted to major in pre-med, they said, “Man, I don’t know whether you want to do that.” [Laughter] “—and play football.”

	H:	And play football, right.



	W:	So I went into education, which I loved. I mean—



	H:	Sure, you enjoyed going to school, you loved school.



	W:	Sure, yeah. When I was in high school I was president of the student council and got a lot of experience there working with children and organizing things and groups and so on. And then when they had a student—what place do you call that? Student activity day or whatever, whenever a student teach for a teacher. Each teacher had a student that taught—

	H:	Oh, neat.



	W:	In their place. And I was the principal. I was always the principal that day. And so, I remember my barber, which was the student behind me, he told me, he say, “I was not surprised when you became a principal, you’ve been a principal ever since you were in high school. I used to see you principal then.” But I always got along with the other kids and especially little children, because I always liked to just touch ‘em on the head or whatever. So I always got along with little children. And I went though high school. Now, I had a girlfriend in high school in tenth grade and we went though high school and college together.

	H:	She went up to A&M too then?





	W:	Mmhm and she finished and I finished. But the last couple years had gotten a little argumentative and I didn’t like that and my senior year—because I had learned about prayer way down in grades school, I’ll tell you about that. And I prayed my senior year in college. I was in the room locked by myself because my roommate was a track star and he would be gone a lot, and plus his girlfriend lived off-campus, so sometimes he would go home. And so I had my room a lot to myself and I could get on my knees and go to sleep there, whatever. But I prayed a lot, asked the Lord to take my girlfriend out my heart. I loved her, but I didn’t want to marry her. I was argumentative with her. God didn’t do it, because I didn’t—we always said when we were in tenth grade we said whether we get married or not, we gon’ always be friends. I loved to talk to her. So, anyway, she got a job in Dade City—

	H:	After graduation.



	W:	After graduation, and I got my job here. H:	Was she in teaching as well then?

	W:	Yeah. And my first week home I had met a girl. I didn’t personally know her but I had seen her always since I was a boy because my sister used to take music lessons from a lady that was in Ocala at the church I go to, her husband was the pastor there, Mrs. Anderson. But I didn’t go to church until then, that was after I got married. My church is in Belleview, where I was raised. But anyway, she was having a recital every year, a music recital, and they had to have the evening gowns on and stuff. And I saw all the girls and I had pictures of everything and this girl that I married was on there. And I also saw her one day, stood right up





over. When I first got my restricted license, I could go to Silver Springs on the baseline road. It was a grid road then. So, I went to Paradise Park which was the Black side and I was standing up on the deck that Sunday afternoon looking at people in the water, and she was right down under me backstroking. Floating.

And I looked at her and didn’t say anything to her. But then my senior year after we had finished high school, all though I had a girlfriend, she lived in Weirsdale so I would come down to kind of operate in Ocala, because she lived in Weirsdale. But anyway, I was at the Friday night dance that we would have in the summer at the auditorium. And I was there that last dance of that summer and I saw her and danced with her and I asked her if she had a way home. I was thinking she was gonna say yes because I used to see her driving her dad’s car all the time. She said she didn’t, so I asked if I could take her home. She said yes. I took her home and I thought we could sit up outside and talk a bit. She said, “Oh, no. My dad don’t play, I got to go in the house.” So she got out and went in the house and I went to Florida A&M to school and she went to Bethune- Cookman and I never saw her anymore in that four-year period. The first week I was home—

	H:	After you’d all ready broken up with your old girlfriend?



	W:	Yeah. The first week I was home, she was crossing the road. I was getting ready to go over and file up on Pine and the street that comes across, the lived over near the Salvation Army at that time. And She was crossing in front of me going through a light, and I saw her and I went to my sister’s house and called her. [Laughter] And we set up a date for that Sunday, supposed to go play tennis





together. I had a tennis racket and she said she had a tennis racket. Got there and we started talking. And we went somewhere else, to a movie or somewhere. We haven’t played a tennis game. [Laughter] I think that was just an excuse for both of us to get together. It’s cute. Anyway, she was one of the sweetest.

Everybody, even today, my wife is dead, October fourteenth will be nine years. She had Lugaritz disease.

	H:	Oh, yeah. This is not you guys here? W:	No, unh-uh.

	H:	That was somebody else.



	W:	She was a wedding coordinator. After she retired, she was a teacher and a librarian.

	H:	Your wife was? Yeah.



	W:	And after she retired, she started coordinating weddings. H:	Oh, okay.

	W:	She got pictures like that. But you talking about one lovely and loved by everybody like to share with people and she was—she was loved by everybody.

	H:	So you came back to Ocala, she was here. She had come back from her school and you meet and have your romance and got married when? How soon after that?

	W:	The first year, I met her in June, after I finished school and she had finished— because she finished in three and a half years. She was back after December of that year, would be January of [19]60—not [19]60, I graduated in [19]61. She





graduated in December of [19]60, that’s what it was, and the first semester of [19]61 she was here and she was subbing.

	H:	She was substitute teaching, okay. W:	At that time.

	H:	Where was she subbing? There weren’t a whole lot of schools around. W:	Up at Reddick-Collier.

	H:	Up at Reddick-Collier, okay.



	W:	Mmhm, and that’s where she got a job. They hired her up there, Mr. Broxton.



Yeah, he hired her.



	H:	Okay, I remember him too.



	W:	And I got my job down at Stanton Weirsdale, that was the junior high school at that time.

	H:	Okay.



	W:	Doing the first through ninth, and we fed Belleview-Santos. Kids left there and went to Belleview-Santos.

	H:	This is, again, still segregation.



	W:	Yeah, it was segregation until [19]67, [19]68.



	H:	When I think of Stanton-Weirsdale, I’m thinking of the brick building. You’re in an all-Black school which is not that big brick building? Or it was?

	W:	Mmhm, that long part. They had built a new school down there, that new brick building, they had built that back sometime a little earlier when I was in high school.

	H:	That was the White school? No.





	W:	No, it was a Black school.



	H:	That was a Black school, okay. I didn’t know that. W:	Nice brick building there.

	H:	Okay, that building there.



	W:	And just like they ended up building us a nice high school at that time with a gym and everything, so they had built that a little before us, I think.

	H:	So, you started there as teaching what?



	W:	Oh, God. Started teaching, I taught science, math, geography, history—eighth grade history, seventh grade geography—and class in physical education in the afternoon, the last period of the day. So, I taught it all.

	H:	That’s a lot of preparation is what that is.



	W:	Yeah, that’s the thing. When I walked in that hall at 8:15 I think we took in at 8:30, and when I walked in there and went in that room I was with children the rest of the day. Go to lunch with ‘em, come back, I had an eighth-grade history class and so on. But anyway, I enjoyed it because I started being prepared to be an administrator from the first day I walked in the school.

	H:	That day?



	W:	My principal didn’t have a secretary. I could type and everything. And he became crazy about me. And I did all his typing, letters and various things, requisitions, end up keeping two registers that teachers kept but he had two older teachers that would get the numbers mixed up, and if you didn’t have those registers in order, they would threaten to keep your check at the end of the school year because you had to have those registers where those numbers add up coming





down and add up going up. And if somewhere in the middle you got one off, that was something to find. So, I kept my register and two other teachers’ register.

H:   On top of all the preparations?



W:  On top of all the preparations and on top of—I started farming. I bought me a tractor when I got back and I was planting twenty-five acres of watermelons a year.

H:   So, were you living==you were still living on family property?



	W:	I lived out there for two years when I first got married. My wife and I, like I said, we dated until May fifth of that school year. The next year. So, it was about a year after we met. And then we had that summer together and then we started working. And we were gon’ get married at one time we had said we were gonna do it that next Christmas, but man, we were enjoying each other. So anyway, we got married May fifth and her birthday, she turned twenty-two—she was twenty- one. Because when she was subbing, she was still twenty. She didn’t turn twenty-one until June first that year when she was home. Because she couldn’t get paid or something like that, she told me, because she wasn’t old enough at

the time. And so, she had a nice little check coming when she turned twenty-one. When we got married, she was twenty-one and I was twenty-one.

	H:	She subbed up at Reddick-Collier, and then what’d she do her second year? Did she stay up there?

	W:	Yeah.



	H:	So, you’re on opposite ends of the county.





	W:	Yeah, opposite ends. That was okay because when we first got married, we stayed with my parents down in Belleview.

	H:	Right.



	W:	I caught somebody going to—didn’t have but one car at the time—I caught somebody going to Weirsdale and she drove the car. Then—what was it? I’m trying to think… Anyway, she wasn’t used to driving. We stayed out there two years. Of course, she went to regular Baptist Church with me a lot and I came up here to her church, too. But she wasn’t used to driving in water, when you go through water in dirt roads. And you don’t have any brakes at that time. You didn’t have any brakes for a little while very good, so it got hot and dry. And she was driving to town one time that second year, we had a baby was born, our first baby. And she was driving to town because she would drop him off and go on to work to a babysitter. And down where they have that NOW Church—you know, NOW, N-O-W, it’s halfway to Belleview. It used to be on the left-hand side used to be a lime pit over there. But they filled it in when—what was that? Big Mac came through here tearing buildings down back in the [19]60s and tore the county courthouse—

	H:	Right, right.



	W:	All that’s in that hole up there, what was that pit. And now they got a church built on it. But she was coming to town one morning and had the baby in the car and she come through water where it had rained. And she hadn’t pressed her brakes since then. And she was coming up to a car, something like that, and had to stop. And that car didn’t have such good brakes and she kind of had to go out toward





that pit. It scared her and scared me when she told me, so we said we were gonna move to town where she would be closer. And so when my dad-in-law found out we were gonna move to town and rent, he said, “No you are not gonna rent either.” Said, “Our house we got four bedrooms, nobody here but me and my wife. Y’all come right here and stay until you get yourself straightened out. Just save your money.” And that’s what we did.

	H:	So they were living here in Ocala and you moved with them?



	W:	In Ocala. So, then she could catch people that were going from Ocala and I could drive—

	H:	Out to Santos, yeah.



	W:	And then sometimes swap off the car, ride with somebody and she could drive.



Until we got two cars. So, that’s what happened there.



	H:	So you taught out there how many years? W:	Five years.

	H:	Five years.



	W:	And then I came to Belleview-Santos, principal there, he came and hired up the principal.

	H:	From out there? You and he came together?



	W:	Came together. Mr. Hart retired. My high school principal, he retired from the public school. And Mr. George took his place and we came together, because, see I was like his assistant principal when I first started working because he didn’t have any help. And then he brought me with him and I was like his assistant principal over my teachers.





	H:	But you were officially a teacher? W:	I was a teacher but—

	H:	You were acting assistant principal.



W:  I wasn’t getting paid for it but learned all the skills and everything, didn’t know it, didn’t recognize what was happening. But he was a master of managing people and making hard decisions look like there was nothing to it. And I was observing all that, you know? All of it. And when he went to—

H:  What was his name again? W:  Thomas George.

H:   George.



	W:	Mmhm, Thomas George. When he went to Miami for a week one time, he left me in charge of Belleview-Santos, which was, like I said, teachers that had taught me and my coach and everybody. I was in charge!

	H:	You were still in your twenties but you’re the boss man.



	W:	I’m up there, I must’ve been about twenty-five, twenty-six, because I built this house, moved in this house when I was twenty-seven.

H:   Oh, really?



	W:	We built our house in five years as a teacher. Two years we were with my parents and three years with her and we saved up over four thousand dollars, so we had a little money to do things with and borrowed fourteen thousand dollars to build this house. Eighteen thousand dollars, that’s what it cost to build this house. And I was gonna coordinate it myself because I had run bids on the plans and I knew how much it took to build this house. I had a guy Tommy Malone that used





to work at—Oh, it was on Magnolia, that big lumber yard. Anyway, he worked there and Tommy Malone had took my plan and he planned out how many nails I would need, how many two-by-fours I would need, everything. And I knew just what was in this house. So, I was gone and I did get bids on it. The lowest bid to build it was fifteen thousand, the highest bid to build it was twenty-two thousand. Well, what it was, this house was built off a plan in Tampa. There was a man, a contractor, lived in front of my wife’s aunt in Tampa. And we liked his house. And he let us come in, he came and he measure out.

	H:	Copied the design?



	W:	Yeah, but we cut down on his house. This room here was another foot and a half or two feet wide and everything. Anyway, the guy in Tampa, architect, drew our plans for us. And so, we gave him a bid on it. Well, for him to bring his crew up here it would cost more, so he was the twenty-two thousand one. And another fellow was fifteen, another one was sixteen, and Ozley was eighteen thousand. Carlisle Ozley. Well, what happened, money became tight during that time in 1966 or somewhere along, 1965. Money became tight and even the commercial business couldn’t get money for construction at that time.

	H:	In terms of borrowed money?



	W:	Yeah. Borrowing money. So, Carlisle Ozley told me, “Now I can get the money.” Because his daddy was on the board at Fidelity Federal. He said, “I can get the money.” Well, I had done bids on my house and I had a bid of—I mean, my bids added up to—I went around, I mean, for different subcontractors, I’d gotten bids from subcontractors, and I had added up to eighteen thousand five hundred





dollars. And he came in at eighteen thousand. So I said, “I’m gonna let him take care of all those problems. He shows me eighteen thousand—”

	H:	Because that’s including his part too, yeah.



	W:	Yeah, yeah. So, that’s when I let him. Okay, well he told me he started putting the plan out. We used to meal on Saturday morning; just about every Saturday morning I’d go over there, and we’d talk about this, that, and the other. And he told me, said, “Everywhere I carry that plan they say they’ve seen it.” I say, “Yeah, they seen it because I made bids on it. I know how much it cost to build this house.” [Laughter] So, he ended up with the same people that I had, ended up building the house.

	H:	And not getting any money for himself, probably, it sounds like.



	W:	[Laughter] The person that was gon’ do the blocks for me did the block for him, the person that was going to do the frame and everything worked for him, but I had gotten a bid and he was gon’ do it for me, so they ended up framing. One of them that was framing, one was my second cousin and my wife’s first cousin.

And then another one was my church member, a deacon at my church. And then the one that was in charge, he became one of my best friends.

	H:	Isn’t that interesting?



	W:	So, they would let me know what was going on or if there’s some bad wood somewhere in here.

	H:	And you’re living with your wife’s parents all this time?



	W:	Mmhm. And I would call Ozley’s foreman named Lancaster, I would call him every night and we’d talk. I had a notebook for a long time I kept that thing. Might





be somewhere here now. And just what he said and just what I said. If I told him to take something out, I didn’t have to worry because the next day they’d let me know whether it’s there or not. It went along real well.

H:  And what did you say, it took two years, you said, and then you moved in? W:  No, it was five years.

H:   Five years to build it?



W:   No five years we had been married.



	H:	I’m talking about to build it. How long did it take ‘em to build it? W:	Oh, they started in February and I moved in in August.

H:   Wow, that’s quick then, okay.



	W:	Yeah. I remember them calling me the first of February down at Belleview-Santos and the bank called and told me my loan went through. And that next week or so they started building, and that’s one of those dry years too. It didn’t rain much during that spring and summer. They worked on it.

	H:	So you’re at Belleview-Santos, your wife is still up at Reddick-Collier and— W:	Well, Belleview-Santos, we were there two years.

	H:	Right.



	W:	And that’s when integration was beginning, a little bit with teachers.



	H:	Let me stop right there and ask about your experience as an adult, as a school board employee, as a resident of Marion County not just as a kid anymore, but in a mixed society. What was your experience of segregation here in Ocala?

	W:	To be honest, and I’m just one individual now, one thing about Whites, they will give an opportunity to a number of people or some people. They don’t like to give





too many opportunities, but I was fortunate enough to be one of those that I didn’t have any problems moving up and so on. The only job I really tried to ask for or applied for was my first job.

	H:	I guess what I’m thinking, because Regis and I talked about that, too, and about the different segments and who somehow gets a break and who doesn’t. Just overall, in other words, from the demonstrations to the civil rights to all of that, you saw all that. It didn’t affect you personally. Were you involved in any of that at all or not?

	W:	No, I was not the demonstrating type. I guess I took advantage of when they cleared the way. I was the type of person to take advantage of it, go in, do the job, do a good job, and then make a way for other people by doing a good job. I wasn’t a marcher because if anybody spit on me or something like that, I couldn’t take it. So I knew my limitations.

	H:	And in the world that you lived, you were—sounds like, I don’t want to say protected, but you didn’t have a whole lot of personal difficulties that you had to endure yourself because you found a way to make life work for you in that world, that’s what I’m hearing, I think.

	W:	Yeah, that’s exactly what you hear. The biggest thing that I remember, I knew what to do and what not to do. In other words, my parents told me what to do and what not to do and that kind of thing. Probably the only thing I scared my daddy about—[Laughter] I might say yes sometimes to his boss and he would tell me, “You say ‘Yes sir.’” I said, “Dad, I don’t mind saying yes sir to anybody because I say yes sir to anybody older than me, but I don’t want to say yes sir to somebody





because they are White. I say yes sir to somebody because they are older and I respect elderly people, same way with Blacks.” And so yes sir isn’t the problem, the problem is I got to say it because you are White. And that’s the only time we differed. But I did, I learned to do what I had to do. I started working, I told you I stared working at the Mount Vernon Motel when I was fifteen years old. Well, you got to earn your tips. And you not gon’ earn that much just by carrying the bag and saying “Okay,” or whatever, “Yes, no.” It was “Yes sir. How can I help you sir? Can I bring you such-and-such thing, sir?” I’m working then, I’m earning me some money and I knew how to do it. So, I learned that early. When to do it and when not to do it. And you know, Blacks always have a way. They knew how to get around the system. Now, probably the biggest thing that ever happened to me openly, but none of my friends were around, we used to go on trips in high school instead of doing proms because Mr. Hart told us you don’t put your money up on the wall with decoration and that kind of stuff and have to take it down the next day and your money gone. Let’s go on trips and you learn something. So, when I was a junior we took the senior class to Washington, D.C. Way up there, and that’s the first time we went to a place you could go—

	H:	With a train or with a bus? W:	Bus.

	H:	Well, yeah, because you wouldn’t be able to ride the train, I guess.



	W:	Real big classes. Nineteen was in my class, and I forgot how many was in the other class.

	H:	So, you went to Washington DC?





	W:	Yeah. And the next year, the juniors took us to Lookout Mountain, Tennessee and back down to Atlanta, underground Atlanta and the Cyclorama and the Cyclorama was where you go in there in the middle of Atlanta—

	H:	Oh I’ve—we’ve taken Madison Street fifth grade to the Cyclorama millions of times, yeah.

	W:	All right. Here we are—and you forget sometimes. Here we are all together in the Cyclorama. You’re around Whites, we’ve been up Lookout Mountain, all of us together. And sometimes you forget that even that’s not told. Because I needed some more—I ran out of film for my camera. And I was going over to a place where they had an open-door place but it was covered, but open door. And was walking across, walked up on the little platform, was walking cross from where I saw the server was. And I’m walking along and I hear something. “Go back! Go back!” And I looked up, that was him telling me to go back. You can’t come in here. And I had been all in the Cyclorama with people, spending my money in the dock in the Cyclorama.

	H:	He wasn’t gonna serve you.



	W:	No, he wasn’t. I couldn’t go in and buy nothing. So, I turned around and went on back. None of my friends knew that, I didn’t go back and tell them what happened. But that thing stayed in me. And even today, that’s the worst experience that I really got was somebody openly told me—because otherwise, I wouldn’t have gone there. If I hadn’t—

	H:	You avoided situations where there’s a potential confrontation.





	W:	Yeah. If I didn’t want you to tell me not to come in your restaurant, I wasn’t going. And if I just wanted a hamburger that bad, there was a place on Magnolia where a Black guy worked there. They had a place around to the side and best hamburgers you could get. So, we would go there but I knew—

	H:	To go around to the side.



	W:	To not go there, to go to the side. And so, that was just the situation just like we were at Paradise Park. We didn’t go around trying to go into Silver Springs.

	H:	The interesting thing I’m picking up from several people is about the same time before integration, and I’m getting mixed stories from people, but the Black business community was a thriving community here in Ocala.

	W:	Mmhm.



	H:	And folks are telling me how good it felt to be there, to be a part of it. Very similar to the feeling out at Paradise Park, in other words, Black, White, it didn’t make any difference. It just felt good to be a part of it.

	W:	Right. Paradise Park, people on Labor Day and various—Fourth of July—came off from Georgia, all those persons would be there.

	H:	That’s what I was told. And that some reason—and I’ve heard different explanations today from Regis than I had heard from some others, although they all seemed to go together. When integration came, obviously Paradise Park died because folks were able to use the regular Silver Springs.

	W:	Mmhm.



	H:	The Black business community in Ocala started dying out, and I’m hearing some of that was a lot of the owners died off. But I’m also hearing that because now





the businesses were at least people felt more open or more free to shop at the mall or the other places that that part died and that left a hollow spot for a lot of folks because it did feel good going to those places. That was one of the unanticipated things, I guess, of integration, that not only were things gained but there were some things lost there, too. The sense of community.

	W:	And things like that will happen because when I was working at the Mount Vernon Motel, now there, I learned, again, how to be with people and be around them. I had to go in the rooms and everything. So it didn’t worry me about being around Whites and so on. My mama used to give Whites when they came to the house off the railroad and wanted something, she gave it to ‘em and they went on about their business. So, I could see that people should treat people right whether we were treated wrong or not. In terms of the businesses, yeah, it wasn’t anticipated that business was gon’ fall like that, I don’t think. And the same thing when [Interstate] 75 came through and put all those motels out there.

	H:	Ah.



	W:	Silver Springs Motels and Silver Springs Boulevard Motels died. H:	They all died too, that’s right, yeah.

	W:	They died.



	H:	and that wasn’t a Black-White thing, that was just the economy.



W:  Right, and then again in terms of education, now, my senior year when I was working for the motel my cousin quit the summer of my senior year, after my senior year. I had graduated. My cousin quit. My boss came to me and asked me, “Frank you want the job of being here? This can be a full-time job for you





now.” I said, “No sir, if you let it go like it is now in the summer I plan to go to college.” I didn’t know that I got my scholarship then, but—

	H:	You knew you were going.



	W:	I knew I was going to college. In fact, l wouldn’t have gone to A&M, I would’ve probably gone to Bethune-Cookman because that’s where my sister had gone. I hadn’t noticed—well I’d watch the quarterback over there and we would go to their games and so forth and I would pick up things as a high school player. I’d always watch and get me little trick things and that kind of stuff. But that’s what happened. The motel died and another thing happened to some of the Blacks was that Marson cafeteria, that was a good job too for young men, a lot of boys were making good money there but then that went down. And they had no education or something to fall back on, and you out of a job as a waiter there.

Those are the kinds of things that happened in many instances. I’ll tell you in the orange industry, oh man! My dad—I ain’t never tell you this. My dad quit the railroad because like I said, he would bathe us at night and we would enjoy his stories and everything. When he would be away for two or three days or a week or what have you—

	H:	Tore the family up, yeah.



	W:	I would cry like I don’t know what. And my daddy quit that job to be home with his family and he went to cutting oranges.

	H:	He was crating oranges?



	W:	No, he was cutting, picking oranges.



	H:	That’s what I meant. For somebody else or on his own property?





	W:	Yeah, Ebsier, Danny Ebsier. And then Mr. Ebsier, he was such a good worker Mr. Ebsier just made him a full-time person that took care of his yard and took care of his orange groves, because he was a person that would work on his own. You didn’t have to be over him. He would irrigate those groves for Mr. Ebsier, and at that time irrigation was moving the pipes certain places and then it’d spray out, you didn’t have it like it is now. It was fire at night when it freezes and he was doing that by himself, and he was a dependable man that Mr. Ebsier could depend on and rain or shine, he got his pay. Now, he wasn’t paying no big dollars, which he should have been. I was making more money than my mom and my dad in the summers.

	H:	Is that right? Working at the motel, you were making more money. W:	A couple hundred dollars a week.

	H:	Oh, of course, because of the tips. Of course, added that to the salary.



	W:	I was making fifty dollars a week and then with tips it went to a hundred, a hundred ten or fifteen dollars a week. It used to be down Broadway in Ocala, oh man, that was—

	H:	That was my understanding.



	W:	And Regis was raised right in the middle of it because their house was right behind our church.

	H:	That’s exactly what she told me. She said she used to play right there on the church. Let’s go back to integration. So, you were down at Belleview-Santos as a teacher but sort of as an assistant principal, and then what happened?





	W:	Well, the second year we were down there—we were only there two years. We had two White teachers, a man and a lady. I almost called both of ‘em name. But anyway—

	H:	But an all-Black school or is it integrated at that point? W:	All-Black school.

	H:	Still all-Black but you had some White teacher?



	W:	We didn’t even have any White students at that time. H:	Okay, but you had a couple White teachers, all right.

	W:	Mr. Mona, Mr. Mona was the man’s name, he taught science. And Mrs. Terri was the White lady’s name. And she was so afraid of what was gonna happen and this kind of thing, and I would tell her, I said, “Mrs. Terri it’s gonna be okay.” I’m thinking students, boys gon’ be scared of the White teacher, you know. It wasn’t such. They were bad and she couldn’t control them and Mr. Mona was almost the same, but I was surprised how the students treated ‘em, because I was thinking they would be scared of White people and act right.

	H:	Well, just like typical students they picked up on the fear that she had and— W:	I guess so.

	H:	I only taught one year of middle school and I went in confident but I lost my confidence pretty quick and had nothing to do with anything other than my orientation, I don’t have control, I was treated like a substitute all year long. That’s what happens with folks who don’t have control, as you know better than I. Anyhow, so they had already started before integration those two White teachers were teaching at Belleview-Santos, and then what happened?





	W:	Before full integration, somewhere else they had some White teachers and so on.

	H:	I mean before the students were integrated.



	W:	Now, we had Saturday sessions at Howard Academy, in the cafeteria over there at Howard Academy talking about Howard Academy now. We had sessions of training and talking about integration.

	H:	Is this teachers or administrators or both?



	W:	Teachers and administrators. Trying to prepare for integration. Some of the things you had Whites that were speakers, you had Blacks that were speakers, and so on. So, that’s about most of the training we had. I’m trying to think—

	H:	And this was, what? About a year before the schools were—in other words, you would go in on Saturday mornings and talk and plan and figure—

	W:	Yeah, yeah. It was before we really got started into it. H:	And before anybody knew who was going where.

	W:	If I recall right I think it was, because where I was, I was fine.



	H:	So, you had no idea whether you’d be moving or staying, nobody did, really, I guess until they started re-assigning folks.

	W:	Yeah, that was a good while before the real integration came. I’m trying to think of where I was. Oh! I was at Belleview-Santos because Belleview-Santos was gon’ become a middle school, because they were going from K-5, not six, but K-5 I believe it was. But it was called middle at first.

	H:	When I first started working in Ocala, it was a middle school. That would’ve been [19]72, I think. All right, so it turned into a middle school.





	W:	Mr. Smith, oh, he wanted to keep me there because I had these certifications on my certificate, and when I became director of Pressley I found out I had more than anybody in the county.

	H:	Isn’t that something?



	W:	Yeah. And taught just about all of ‘em. But anyway, Mr. Smith wanted to keep me there. Oh, he kept me in when he came to Belleview teaching, kept me in about two hours—no, not that long—about an hour. And he tell me, “You certified to teach anything?” I said, “That’s the problem, I’m certified to teach anything, and people want me to teach it all. [Laughter] All those preparations. So, I told ‘em, I said, “Now, I’ll call you tomorrow and let you know what I’ll do but I’m really looking at going to this new program.” I am a physical education major but I’m certified in all these other things. I said, “I’ll call you tomorrow and let you know that I will probably be looking to get into this new physical education elementary.” Physical ed was gon’ start. So, anyway, I went up and talked with Mr. Applebee who was at the district office, he was over the commitment. And I remember him asking me, said, “Are you sure you want to go out there and play with those little kids.” I said, “Yes sir, I said my mind now.” So, I was teaching in the summer I was teaching baseball out at Carver Park over there. A fellow named Mr.

Kitchen, he had just gotten a job in Ocala and he was the supervisor. Gon’ be the supervisor of physical education. And he came out there and told me that they wanted me to be a NH Jones as an elementary teacher.

	H:	As a PE teacher?



	W:	A PE teacher, yeah. At the same time, I had just built this house.





	H:	I was gonna say, you had already built the house.



	W:	But when I first started working, when I first went to NH Jones I had just moved in this house, maybe the second or third year because I was down in Belleview when I moved here, down in [19]67, I moved here in August of [19]67 and 1967- [19]68 was the final school year for Belleview. But I would be out there, I worked out there at three o’clock in the evening and I had the recreation program at NH Jones in the cafeteria until twelve, from nine to twelve or something. And then I’d go to three o’clock baseball at Carver Park, but in between I would come and paint the roses on that thing there. See, it was spring green all over and then we—

	H:	Came back and painted the roses.



	W:	Roses. Yeah, in this yard I designed this yard, Mr. George and I, my principal.



We went to three schools together, because he came to NH Jones when I came.



	H:	He came with you? Okay.



	W:	So he was principal again and same setup. So, when I became assistant principal and I had been to the principal’s meeting too when I was down at Belleview. When he was out of town that time, I had to go to the principal’s meeting and that’s when I found out about the pool. Where you put teachers in the pool—

	H:	Right the administrative pool, right. W:	Got to get ‘em out.

	H:	Right.





	W:	And I remember Mr. Applebee telling everybody in there, “Don’t put any—” what you call it? “Continuing contract teachers in the pool.” They don’t go in the pool, you put your new teachers. Now, if you have to put ‘em in there you put ‘em in there by seniority. In other words, the one that been there longest, the least rather, got to put a continuing contract teacher in there you put the one that’s the least, because I remember I had to call Bob Ward. And told him who I was and I was in Mr. George place for a week but I had been to the principal’s meeting the day before and you might have seen me. Don’t think there were too many Blacks in there. And I said, “I have a teacher here she’s gon’ have to be in the pool even though she’s a continuing contract teacher because we don’t have anything else.” And it wasn’t—yeah you could kind of do what you wanted to at that time. You didn’t have the union. So if you wanted to get somebody, get a teacher off of you, you could put anybody in the pool at that time. That’s what it was. Because it wasn’t until I was principal at Madison Street that we got the union.

	H:	Okay.



	W:	That was at Madison Street. I know when I lost a unit—See, I had eight kindergarteners, I think it was, and seven first graders and seven second graders.

	H:	Wow.



	W:	And I lost a unit one year in my kindergarten and I sent a teacher over, Juanita.



Really, she was a good teacher.



	H:	But you lost the unit.





	W:	Yeah, I lost the unit but she wasn’t the lowest person on the totem pole. She didn’t get along—it was basically a Black school, for the students especially because I only had two White students.

	H:	I didn’t know you had any!



	W:	No, two White students at the time. I had some nice White teachers that was in here from Gainesville and things the rest of ‘em was in school and that kind of stuff. And this teacher, she was a good teacher but somehow she rubbed many of the Blacks wrong. And at the time that I called her and talked with her I told her, I said, “You know I’m gonna make it better for you and for Madison Street.” I said, “I’ve made arrangements to send you over to Mr…” I can’t think of his name, but he was over at Wimena.

	H:	Wimena, yeah.



	W:	Send you over to Wimena and you’ll probably be able to get along a little better over there. And I said, “It’s nothing that you’ve done as far as teachin’ you one of the best teachers I have, but sometimes you have to make a decision for the entire situation.” So I moved her over there. I couldn’t have done that with the union.

	H:	Mmhm. Let me back up, so you came to NH Jones with Mr. George and came as a teacher but also an assistant principal sort of?

	W:	Well, yeah. Anytime he left I was in charge.



	H:	Right, but still being paid as a teacher, doing the PE thing. W:	Right. Mmhm.

	H:	And then how long were you there before you—





W:   Three years.



H:   Three years. And then went to Madison Street?



W:  No, no. What happened, there was a three-way move. Mr. Dunwhitty had been begging me to get in administration and he wanted me to go to either Forrest or Van Guard as administrative assistant, still getting teacher’s pay.

H:   Oh! [Laughter]



	W:	I told him, “No, I’m not going over there unless I can get paid for it.” I said, “It’s not the money but it’s the principle.”

H:   It’s true.



	W:	I just wasn’t going in no situations and I’m doing the job but I’m not getting paid for it, because I knew I was gonna do my job well. And your own people look at you as being—What? —A subservient person. So I told him, I said, “In fact, I had gone over to Van Guard and I have gone to Forrest.” Over at Van Guard— What’s his name? —Rodgers was there. And a guy named Brooks at the time was over at Forrest. I said, “I been to Mr. Rodgers and I been to Mr. Brooks but no one has really given me a job description or anything like that, so I want me a job description and I need the assistant principal or whatever.” So he told me, said, “I tell you what, you come up to my office at whatever time, could be a week from now, which is a Tuesday, and I will have you a job description. In fact, I’ll have the man here.” Well, I did that and Brooks was there so he asked Brooks to share with him what I’ll be doing, this, that, and the other. First thing Brooks said, “He’ll be just like an assistant principal. He’ll be—” blah blah blah. I was through with it then. So, after Brooks got through talkin’ and everything, Mr. Dunwhitty





said, “Well Washington, you heard what he said, what you think about it?” I said, “The first thing he said was he’ll be like an assistant principal. Are you paying for it?” He said, “Well, no.” I said “I’ll be like? I can’t be like something. I’m either it or I just don’t want to bother with it at this time.” And I told him, I said, “You know, like I said, it’s not the money, it’s the principle of it.” And I’m doing okay, my wife and I have built our home off of teacher’s pay and we built our home all ready, and I got a little tractor down in Belleview and I go there and get on that tractor in the evening and that’s my relaxation. And I enjoy doing that.” I said, “And the thing about it, I’m going to school and I don’t need to put that pressure on myself of having to have my master’s and trying to go to school too. So let me just finish my master’s and then we’ll talk about it.” So he said, “Are you saying you don’t want the job?” I said, “Well I guess that’s what I’m saying.” And that was like that, because I mean, I knew I could do my job and I told him, I said, “I know you’re a superintendent, Mr. Dunwhitty, and you could tell me, ‘Washington if you want to work in Marion County you will do this or do that.’” I said, “But I don’t think you that type of person.”

	H:	I want to stop you right there. You’re still a young man— W:	At that time.

	H:	At that time. You’re in this big bureaucracy run by Whites, you’re having the ultimate boss in the world, the superintendent, telling you what he wants you to do and you somehow have the strength, the internal strength, and the confidence, and the grace—because grace was a huge part of it—Where did that come from? What do you attribute that inner, whatever it is that carried you





beyond that to success? You showed that very early in your professional career on that very moment with the superintendent you graciously turned down the offer that he was giving you that you knew he wanted you to take and had the strength to do it politely. Where did that come from?

	W:	I guess in me it’s just one of those things, if I make my mind up, “I’m not gonna do it, I don’t want to do that,” I’m not gon’ do that.

	H:	But I’m thinking that comes from your dad or your mom or your grandpa or—that comes from somebody or it comes from God, I don’t know where it comes from but it comes from somewhere.

	W:	Well, it probably comes from both of ‘em but they lived in a different time than I did coming up. You know, things were gonna change. Black children, many Black children, in a way didn’t take anything and I was one of ‘em. Now I wouldn’t put myself in position to have to haggle or that kind of thing, but I when I got where I had to make a decision or whatever, I made that.

	H:	Kind of like when your dad left the railroad and said, “I can’t do this, I need to be with my family.”

	W:	Might be where that came from. My children, my son cryin’ for me and my daughter and everything, I want to be with my family.

	H:	And that’s a priority regardless of anything else.



	W:	And my thing was I wasn’t gon’ let anybody put me in a situation that it looks like I’m doing this thing and I’m not really doing it, I’m not really getting paid for it.

Okay, as a result for instance, Bob Jones used to be at Howard Middle School.



Dunwhitty must’ve told Bob Jones what I told him, because Bob Jones was





around telling people that “Frank Washington, well he told Mac Dunbar gon’ put him on his blacklist.” That’s what he was around telling people.

	H:	Stirring up trouble.



	W:	Well, wasn’t stirring it up. He was sat down here— H:	Not intentionally but who knows what.

	W:	But that summer just at the beginning in August or September we were getting ready to go back to school—

	H:	And you’re still here at NH Jones because you didn’t take that position?



	W:	Yeah, I’m still at NJ Jones. Dean Kells, which was older curriculum at that time, Dean Kells called me that Friday morning I believe we were going back that Monday or Tuesday. He called me that Friday morning and asked me if he could come around here, talk with me. I say, “Sure you can come to my house Dean, talk with me.” So anyway, he came and he had a leadership class, a professor from the University of Florida was teaching.

	H:	Who was that?



	W:	I can’t think of his name now. H:	Okay, not Simon Johnson?

	W:	No, that was a little before Simon when we got up there. But anyway, no, he was a White professor. Anyway, [inaudible 2:26:36]. So, he came and told me what was happening with that particular class and he asked me if I would be in charge of getting the—we would get our stipend of fourteen hundred dollars and he asked me if I would be in charge of the checks and getting the milage and that kind of thing, because we would have to travel different places. And I was in





charge of it. Now, is that putting me on the blacklist? Because that was right after I was hearing this stuff about… So, I was in charge of that, we went through that class. Okay, the next school term at the end of it, I was out on the field and Mr.

George came out there, the principal, and told me Mr. Dunwoody wanted to see me in the office. He would keep the kids for me.

	H:	Seems like you had already met with Mr. Dunwoody one time. [Laughter]



	W:	And so when I walked in the door, he said, “Washington, I got something good for you this time.” He said, “If it wasn’t I wouldn’t call you in.” He said, “I want you to go to Osceola, you’ll be assistant principal, you’ll be the second in charge and you’re getting paid for it.”

	H:	You didn’t have to ask that last question, did you? [Laughter]



	W:	Well the next question I asked him, I told him, I said, “Yes sir.” I said, “That’s good.” I said, “But you were telling me I’m going to Osceola, I gotta work with somebody I haven’t seen. Will he want me?” He said, “You want an interview with him?” I said, “I’d love to.” He picked up the phone right then and called Nick Marcos.

	H:	That’s what you were telling me on the phone was Nick Marcos.



	W:	Yeah, called Nick Marcos and I went and talked to him the next day and we got to an understanding about some things, but one thing that I shared with him that I would anticipate—it may not happen but there are things I anticipate—I tell a White teacher to do something or whatever and then they come to you and get around it. He said, “No, it’s not gon’ be anything like that. We all work together.”





	H:	Tell me where things were as far as integration was concerned at the middle and high school level, what was going on? The faculties were already integrated.

Was administration already integrated or not?



	W:	Not totally. Administration didn’t really get integrated to a pretty good point until Rodgers got in there.

	H:	But you were certainly the first Black administrator at Osceola, correct? W:	No, no.

	H:	No, there had been some?



	W:	No, Ed Fordham had been doing the time and they demote him. Ed Fordham was out to Sparr principal and they moved him down to assistant principal at Osceola.

	H:	So he was assistant principal under Marcos before you?



	W:	Under Marcos, it was a junior high then and then when I got with Marcos, that was the first year of the middle school.

	H:	Middle school, got you that’s right.



	W:	So, what it was, he made a three-man move what Mac done, what he did then, he sent Mr. George, which was the principal at NH Jones and one of the best organizers and best principals in Marion County, he sent him to A Street as principal. Sent me to Osceola, I’m still on the same campus as Mr. George, now we had been to three schools. And they sent me to Osceola as assistant principal and sent Ed Fordham to principal at NH Jones, sent him back in a principal seat.

	H:	Oh, he brought him back over here to NH Jones, that’s right, that’s right.





	W:	Back in a principal seat. H:	That’s right.

	W:	That’s why I appreciate him for putting him back in a principal’s seat.



	H:	So at this point, you’re at Osceola, the administrations are integrated, what year would this have been?

	W:	The administrations were not—



	H:	Well, I say administrations, not totally but— W:	Beginning to integrate.

	H:	Yeah, yeah, and the students are where?



	W:	Mr. George was supposed to go to Lake Well as assistant principal but NH Jones became open because the principal, they had put him back in the classroom or something so he left. And I was assigned to NH Jones before Mr. George was, he came with me there.

	H:	But it was still an all-Black school, NH Jones, at that point. W:	Mmhm.

	H:	As was, at that time—No Fessenden was all-Black too? Not Fessenden, excuse me, where Ed was.

	W:	Osceola?



	H:	No, Sparr!



	W:	Oh yeah, still all Black. H:	I’m just trying to figure—

	W:	Students really didn’t start until [19]68.





	H:	And this would’ve been, what? [19]67 then? [19]66, [19]67 that you were talking about, this year that you were moving to Osceola.

	W:	No! Osceola was [19]71.



	H:	So the integration had already happened then, the first years of integration.



	W:	Yeah, yeah. I wasn’t in ‘em because we didn’t have White students at NH Jones.



Teachers were integrated.



	H:	And when you went to Osceola there were some Blacks?



		W:		No. NH Jones there was quite a few White teachers that was sent to NH Jones. H:	But no kids yet?

	W:	Bill Cayton, do you know Bill Cayton? H:	I know the name.

	W:	He was a middle school principal and had been a coach. His wife was in NH Jones and some others because when I went to Osceola, the sixth-grade teachers and everything had to go over there also, so they went and I went as assistant principal.

	H:	But there were already some Black students there at Osceola?



	W:	At Osceola? Yeah, there had been some Black students there through the ninth grade and they had moved ninth grade back to high school and left the eighth grade. But we had a good mixture at first, about thirty-five percent.

	H:	Oh, when you started there they were already thirty-five percent?



	W:	Yeah, when you got that middle school you had about thirty-five percent.



Because the total number of Black students like forty students going there and then the others had to come in. Yeah, from NH Jones it’s about forty students





went there. But we had a good mixture of Blacks and Whites even in the teaching level.

	H:	So, as an administrator you were not a part of the initial shock of that integration, you were all Black and you went over and you already had your thirty percent, you didn’t have to deal with some of that stuff.

	W:	Yeah, that’s what I told Mr. George when they had done that, put those Black assistants and all that, I told him I wasn’t gon’ put myself in a position for ‘em to treat me like that. And that’s when he told me, say, “You get ready, they’re gon’ need us.” So I heeded to that statement but I didn’t want to go that long ride to A&M, because I went up there one semester with him and he was finishing up his master’s because he had to finish it up because he was principal at the high school level then. And I rode up there and I took a class, but that was too far because we got back about three or four o’clock and I wanted to farm some, big ole farm. So I started goin’ to Stetson.

	H:	So you got to Osceola, how long did you stay there as AP? W:	Three years.

	H:	Three years as AP and then that went okay?



	W:	That went fine, Nick and I got along like brothers and because we got along so well—See, used to have an evaluation that came out of the district office at that time to the teachers about the—

	H:	Evaluating administrators? Yes.



	W:	And they couldn’t do nothing but evaluate us and they would have on there, “They get along so well it makes the faculty be more of a family.” And Nick and I





walked around the campus. We wanted to keep it clean and we said we would pick up paper if we had to. But we could then tell students—

	H:	Everybody else look after it, yeah. So you stayed there and then where did you go from there?

	W:	Madison Street.



	H:	Went to Madison Street for your first principalship? W:	Right.

	H:	Okay. And replace somebody there, did you have an AP there? W:	No, I didn’t have an AP there. The lady retired.

	H:	Okay, so you’re going from middle school back to elementary back to young elementary.

	W:	See, now I had been down at Weirsdale which was first through ninth, I taught seventh through ninth, but I was around those little children. And I remember one little boy, I saw him not too long ago and I always remind him I was riding home one evening and he was in first grade and I used to play around there with him and things, throw a football and that kind of stuff. And he told a teacher he wanted to be just like me and the teacher called me to give him a ride home that evening. And anyway, that stayed in my mind.

	H:	You must’ve been doing something right.



	W:	Yeah. Being a role model for ‘em. But anyway, what’s your next question?



	H:	So you went to Madison, that was no big deal going back to young kids because you knew young kids.





	W:	Oh yeah, I had been first through ninth and then I went to first through twelfth. The only thing I was teaching in high school but I had to be around those little students. We had chapel and that kind of stuff and they’d all come to chapel. And then so I had been in the high school really at that time one through high school. And then, I came to NH Jones in the elementary and worked with those students and my program, although it had the—What you call it? —Forrest Osceola—the middle school, Forrest was the high school—and A Street was the elementary school. And they supposed to be a model school.

	H:	Serving all the same neighborhoods and stuff, yeah.



	W:	Well, no. It was a model program. Guess who had the best program in the county? I did! The supervisor Mr. Kitchen, he would be around tellin’ everybody else about my program at NH Jones. And I had people coming out observing me and that kind of thing. But the best program, like I said, model program was supposed to be A Street, Forrest and Osceola. And that fellow and I worked together—the A Street fellow—we still friends today. He call me and want to go to dinner; he lives in Gainesville. He went back after—

	H:	Who is that? Who was he?



	W:	His name is… anyway, when he left here he went back to University of Florida and got his doctorate in physical ed. And he stayed there and retired from there. And I went to the retirement. I can’t think of the name…

	H:	So how many years were you at Madison Street? W:	I was there six and a half years.





	H:	And you left when they started the magnet school, I’m guessing, right? So, they start the magnet and you go where from Madison Street?

	W:	They didn’t start the magnet school yet.



	H:	That was later on? That was in the [19]80s, you’re right. So, you went from Madison Street to Fort Cane.

	W:	John Livingston came from up at North Marion Middle as assistant principal under Bill Cayton to take my place at Madison Street.

	H:	You go to Fort Cane as what? As--- W:	Principal.

	H:	As principal. And they had Bob Pounds workin’ for you. Gotcha, okay.



	W:	And then Jenville Middle, which had been there, that was a three-way move that Rodgers made. Rodgers took—he was a superintendent, too—after Rodgers who was the superintendent?

	H:	Not Smith?



	W:	In between Smith and the one before Smith. H:	Oh, Archibald.

	W:	Archibald!



	H:	Archibald.



	W:	I know Archibald. Anyway, Archibald was at Forrest and Rodgers brought him in to be assistant superintendent for personnel.

	H:	Okay.



	W:	But the guy had left and gone to Georgia that was there. So that next move was



Ken Vinetta to Forrest. And then me to Fort Cane. And I was there for four





years. Now, Madison Street—everywhere I went I left a program; I did something different. Over at Madison Street I had a class that was in between kindergarten and first grade. I’m trying to think of what was the name of it, it was… Early Childhood Preventative—

	H:	They call it the PREP Program, Primary Education Program. W:	Yeah, but mine was called Early Child—

	H:	You had your own thing.



	W:	Early Childhood Preventative Program. H:	Yes…

	W:	EPCP, something like that. Early Childhood Preventative Curriculum. ECPC. But anyway, I had brought a lady down from just north of Miami and she had sone a workshop for me and I had set up for my teachers, first of all, they and to observe each other. I made a schedule, especially where kindergarten go and observe the first grade and the second-grade teachers and vice versa, because you would hear every now and then, “Those kindergarteners not doing such-and- such thing.”

	H:	They’re not getting ‘em ready for first grade, yeah.



	W:	So you had to get an understanding by goin’ and lookin’. And I said in that schedule that I was gon’ send ‘em out to other places, I said, “We got to know each other first before you leave and go somewhere to observe a program that we wanna put in. We gon’ know and appreciate each other.” And they learned to appreciate those kindergarten teachers for what they saw and vice versa, the kindergarten teachers really did enjoy going to the next level and observing. So,





we did that first and then we went to Deland, that school in Deland that had an ECPC program, we went to Inverness that had one, and we went to Williston that had one. And so, we observed them and then we also brought in a Black guy from the University of Florida, I can’t think of his name, he was good, too. He was a professor over there. And I put that program in and then like I say, I’ve got to Fort Cane, I put the RISE program. Been down to the county office—

	H:	So you went from Fort Cane to the county office, then? W:	Yeah, mmhm.

	H:	And went to the county office in what first? Did you go straight to personnel? W:	Yeah, director of personnel.

	H:	You went straight from Fort Cane to—okay, okay.



	W:	Yeah, it was the supervisor’s position then, but I told ‘em man I’m not losing fifty cents a day, you gon’ talk about being supervisor. He says, “Oh, no I’m gon’ make you director of personnel, you’ll be the first director of personnel in Marion County.” They didn’t have a director seat, they had a supervisor. And I was up there with my schedule and everything, so I really didn’t make any money per say but I did because it went to twelve months, so that was an increase.

H:  What was it like leaving the kids, because now you’re just working with teachers and you’re not around the kids anymore. What was that like? Were you ready to make that change?

	W:	You know, I wasn’t necessarily ready but the only job I really applied for was my first job. After all the others, somebody come to me and want me. Because my wife couldn’t understand that. She asked me one time after I got down to county





office and she saw I was the same as I was, she never heard about any problems, I didn’t bring any problems I had home. Now, I might lay up in that bed at night, two or three o’clock in the morning praying until water comin’ out my eyes. Jesus know it. Because all I wanted to do, if I had a problem going up, give me overnight. I can’t tell you the number of times that somebody was coming—a parent or something supposed to be coming in raising Sam the next day and they get me overnight, they come in like a little house cat or something. [Laughter] Don’t know what happened. I prayed. I tell you one that happened, this guy was a scout, I knew him. He was over the scouts. And I knew him pretty well. Not that well but I had met him somewhere else. Anyway, his daughter kept actin’ up on the bus and she wouldn’t act right. I’d done everything talkin’ to her and everything and so I finally had to give her a day off the bus. He called me that evening after she got home, “She will be on that bus in the morning Mr.

Washington.” I said, “Mr. So-and-So, I wouldn’t do that if I were you, because you’re going to have to come get her or something.” And, “Well, she’ll be on the bus.” Okay well I had overnight. The next morning I was getting ready to go out to the bus, get a phone call. “Mr. Washington, so-and-so won’t be there, she came down with the mumps last night.” [Laughter] Now, boy you wouldn’t believe that but those are the kinds of things that have happened. I had another lady, oh, she was gon’ raise Sam. She messed around, gave overnight, because I thought I’d forgotten what that situation was. But oh, she was gon’ raise Sam. Something had happened and she was going to people house and then she was comin’ back there in the morning and she was gon’ raise Sam. Well, she came back





there just as calm as she could be. “Well, she won’t be going to school. I’m moving and she gon’ be going to school somewhere up in Georgia.” In the meanwhile, she had her arm in a sling. I wouldn’t ask her what happened when she went to those people house. Oh! And I’m gon’ tell you one more and then I’ll go somewhere else. Another lady, she and Van Staten was the school board member he lived near her. And she one afternoon I had to suspend her daughter, the White girl, which is her daughter, and a Black girl for fighting over something. And, oh, she called me that evening and I talked to her Friday evening. I talked to her I don’t know how long on the phone. She goin’ to the superintendent, Mr.

Fisher had become the superintendent then, I think. No, going to Van Staten, because he lived near her. “I’m going to Van Staten,” and blah blah blah. So I told her, I said, “I tell you what, you do. You got to Mr. Staten and while you telling him about everything if he decides that he gon’ make a decision to come and bother me or something, tell him to bring somebody with him because he can have this job.”

	H:	Wow. [Laughter]



	W:	And that Monday morning she did call me and she was on the phone and she was asking, “Mr. Washington, what can you do to help me with the child?”

	H:	Wow. [Laughter]



	W:	And bring up Van Staten because Staten probably knew. Because Mr. George and I used to be saying—we were the only Blacks that went to all the school board meetings, way back when we was down in Weirsdale. We would go to all the school board meetings, only two Blacks in there. And whenever he wasn’t





there I was there or vice versa. And so, I knew the school board members by seeing them and some of them knew me.

	H:	And they knew you too.



	W:	They couldn’t help but know me. And the superintendents and then when I was at Osceola, now, I was the only assistant principal that went to school board meetings. I’m not school board—principal meetings. Nick—

	H:	Brought me along.



	W:	Yeah, “Go along with me, you need to hear what’s goin’ on,” because I was gon’ have to do it anyway. Anyway, so the principals all knew me, all the principals did and they saw me as a mild-mannered person.

	H:	But a man of conviction. In other words, mild, yes, but clearly knew you had convictions.

	W:	I had one person, Jim Scaggs, deputy superintendent. He was deputy superintendent of the—Skip at first, Skip brough him in there. And maybe he was under John. No, Fred was deputy under John, Fred Smiler. He was under Skip. And it was about integration and an appointment. John Livingston was over at Fort Cane then. Mrs. Lane came after me, and then she stayed two or three years and then she retired and then John got sent there. So he followed me at Madison Street and then he went to my school, he didn’t follow me but he went to the same school that I had been in. So, under him, Bob Pounds retired. So I sent Maryanne Linen, which was Black. John said that he would love to have him as an assistant, and I sent him over there. Oh, man! Jim Scaggs tried to die, deputy superintendent, he had me in his office. “You sent two Blacks over to Fort





Cane?!” I said, “Yeah. What’s wrong with it?” “Two Blacks?” I said, “What’s wrong with it?” Anyway, over in conversation he messed around and [Pounds table] hit the table like that talkin’ to me. And I got up and I was standing over him and I told him I will mop this floor with you, don’t you ever raise your voice and hit a table at me again. And he said, “Close the door.” “No, I’m not closing no door everybody gon’ hear me beat your butt in here if you do that again.” I’m not closing no door. Yelled back at me. “I’m not falling to your level, you just don’t do that again, Jim.” That was the best friend I had down there, one of the best friends.

	H:	So I’m gon’ ask you again, where did that come from? Just you being you?



	W:	Just being me. I’m mild until you get me wrong. And then—I know where it comes from. My dad is from Charleston, South Carolina and those are getchas. And I always tell people, “You don’t wanna see the getcha side of me.” I didn’t even wanna see the getcha side of my daddy.

	H:	[Laughter]



	W:	You wanna see the Floridian side, which is my mama. She didn’t play and people got her wrong.

	H:	So what I’m hearing is you’re mild-mannered but somebody stepped over the line when he slammed on that table.

	W:	Oh he definitely stepped over.



	H:	He stepped over the line and you had no choice but to be true to yourself and let him know that that was not something you’re gonna put up with.





	W:	I couldn’t sit here. I had to go around there to let him know I meant business. I had to do a teacher like that over at Fort Cane. He came to school late one morning, and he don’t take it as nothing, blah blah blah. And something he said, before I knew it I was standing over him. “No, we not gon’ play that game that way, you gon’ do what you supposed to do and be where you supposed to be or call somebody and let them know you can’t make it. We have students in there. You’re not getting me in trouble.” “Okay, Mr. Washington, okay.” So those things just that comes about I guess if I think a minute, it might not would happen. But that’s the only two times in the school system I had to do that.

	H:	And you were personnel how many year? W:	Eleven. The only stay I had.

	H:	That’s right, that would’ve been your—



	WL	I was at Weirsdale five years, Belleview two years, Madison Street three years. That was ten years in the classroom, and then over here with Osceola for three years, Madison Street for six and a half, four years in Fort Cane, and eleven years at county office. That should give you twenty-four and a half.

	H:	And how and when did you decide, “Okay, that’s enough, I’m retiring?” W:	Okay, my wife retired at fifty-two.

	H:	Did she stay up at Reddick by the way?



	W:	No, she came. Nick Marcos wanted to hire her before I left there, he wanted to hire her and I told him, “No, Nick, I love my wife, we get along beautifully together. But in the event we’ve had words one morning or anything, we don’t





need to come to work together. We need to be able to see each other that evening and be glad to see each other.

	H:	Sure.



	W:	And I don’t wanna be an administrator and havin’ to evaluate her, which he wouldn’t let me do it, I’m sure. But anyway—

	H:	In that situation, sure.



	W:	She was doin’ fine up there, made teacher of the year. She was the first Black teacher of the year after integration.

	H:	Is that right?



	W:	Mmhm, yeah. So when I left he called me that year about January, when time to start hiring, January or February. “Frank, is it okay to hire Barbara now?” “Yeah, you do what you want, bring her on in.” So he hired her and she stayed over there seventeen years.

	H:	So, she finished up there. W:	Mmhm.

	H:	So, what happened you retired.



	W:	She retired three years before me. The two things that made me retire, well, we were in our twenty-seventh year we went to Tallahassee and got everything in order, what we had to pay and that kind of thing. I think she had to pay like thirty or forty dollars or something, it wasn’t no big money.

	H:	What order? I’m missing here— W:	Get your year in order—

	H:	Just to make sure you were prepared, all right. So you had full retirement?





	W:	Because they had made some changes in the system going to a Florida system from the education system, whatever it was. But anyway, we had done that at twenty-seven years and then we went on. But we really always kind of laid our life out like we wanted it. For instance, when we built this house and after we had saved up over four thousand dollars—that was pretty good money back then.

After I had done that and built the house I said, “You know Barbara, I could’ve gone back to medical school like I always wanted to do when you were over here with our dad and your dad and my dad-in-law. And you could’ve stayed here and I could’ve taken the money we saved, gone back to medical school.” And said, “But now, we don’t have that so let’s look at what we wanna do.” I say, “I’m gon’ get my master’s, we gon’ pay for the furniture in the house, take the next three years, in twenty-seven years,” I was twenty-seven years old. I said, “I’m going to take the next three years and pay for the house and then I’m gon’ start on my master’s.” And she said, “Well, somewhere along the line I’m gon’ start on mine, too.” So anyway, when I turned thirty, which was September, I was on my way to Stetson.

	H:	You had paid this house off?



	W:	No, I paid the furniture for it. Yeah, yeah. H:	Okay.

	W:	So I was on the way to Stetson. She went to—what do you call the programs a lot of people go to?

	H:	NOVA?





	W:	NOVA, she went to NOVA. Now, I had to pay by semester she had to pay by the month at NOVA at that time. She decide to go when I’m goin’, but God would make a way. Because I sure wasn’t gon’ tell her, “You can’t go.” So, uptight with money, no, we managed our money. And one thing about my wife, she knew I was a good manager of money, which I had learned from my mother. And she brought her check home and put it on that dresser or whatever and didn’t think nothing else about the money. I put it in the thing and my wife, all my wife wanted was what she wanted when she wanted it. And if it was something that we needed to really talk about, she understood if we couldn’t get it at that time. She wasn’t a hog of money or anything like that, she just was a beautiful lady. But anyway, the other thing was I had to talk to people, principals and so on, for the superintendent when they had gotten older and everything and try to begin to go downhill or plateau or what have you. And that happens. Even our pastor that stayed at the church fifty years and kind of wanted to continue, but we had to tell him nicely and everything. He saw the church was goin’ down, the congregation and everything. And he didn’t have the energy to build it back up. So, we had to come encourage him. And I had to encourage principal at Belleview, Mrs. Love, and encourage her and she said she couldn’t retire because her husband had lost out in the orange business when those freezes came and killed all the oranges. She had the only income. So, we ended up putting her in the book depository. So, you try to work with people when you can. And I didn’t want that to happen to me.

	H:	You didn’t want somebody to come to you and say, “Your time is here.”





	W:	Yeah. And I was at my peak at fifty-six years old. Doing fine. But if I had stayed another three or four years, because that’s the longest job I had stayed on. And then you go to another job and you got people excited and that kind of thing, but we got on so good in person. You talkin’ about some good times and good eating and things that we had and everybody’s birthday and Christmas, they gave me some beautiful gifts.

	H:	Isn’t that nice?



	W:	Yeah, they took care of me. I worked with twelve ladies. I was the only man in the—[Laughter] And I knew when somebody come to me with something, I knew whether to get involved or if it was just a ladies’ situation. I told ‘em, “I’m not touching that one today so y’all work it out.”

	H:	You could feel that when you walked in as an employee at the personnel office, that that was a team operation and there was not a dog-eat-dog and people worrying about each other.

	W:	No, I never did let that happen. I’d call somebody in and rake ‘em over the coal in there and I’d tell ‘em, “I’m gon’ keep my voice at the level that it is now, but don’t let that fool you, I mean what I say.” I said, “The other thing is, when we walk out of here, I’m through with it. Now, if you wanna not speak to me because of this that the other, that’s you, but the next time I pass you, I’m speaking to you or making some type of nod.” Because if I walk by you on the street and you look me in the eye, I’m gon’ do something. I can’t look at people and don’t say something. Now, if you decide you throw your head up and you don’t wanna see





me, I’ll walk on by and then sometimes I speak to people and they don’t say nothing.

	H:	So how long ago was that you retired? W:	Twenty-four years ago.

	H:	Twenty-four years, and you are still active in the community. W:	A little bit, I’m not as active as I used to be.

	H:	You’re active in the church.



	W:	Yeah, very active at the church. H:	And any other organizations?

	W:	My fraternity, Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity. H:	From A&M?

	W:	I didn’t join in A&M I joined in the alumni system. H:	Okay, all right. And you have a local chapter here? W:	Yeah, we got a good local chapter here.

	H:	And we didn’t talk about kids. You guys have kids. W:	Yes, we have two children.

	H:	What are they up to?



	W:	And five grandchildren. Well, my son is down in Delray and he works for Costco, that’s the same as Sam’s. First, he was in IBM; he worked for IBM for fourteen years and then when they went to having—they had the [inaudible 3:10:03] at the time, laid people off. IBM didn’t lay people off, and they weren’t laying off they were replacing ‘em and reorganizing because they wanted to send my youngest child up to North Carolina, he didn’t wanna leave that area. And so, he went over





to Publix for a while and was a dispatcher for truckers, the payroll and that kind of thing. And then he ended up—he stayed there about four or five years but they didn’t wanna do any promotions or that kind of thing for Blacks. And so he went to Costco, and he been there ever since.

	H:	And you say you have five grandkids all together, how many of those are his? W:	Let’s see, he has two boys and a girl.

	H:	Two boys and a girl.



	W:	And my daughter has a boy and a girl. H:	And where’s your daughter?

	W:	My daughter lives in Belleview. H:	In Belleview. What does she do?

	W:	She works for this place out there off of 14th that find jobs and everything. H:	Okay, yeah, I know what you’re talking about.

	W:	She was a personnel major in school. She ended up majoring in what her dad was doing at the time.

	H:	So do you see her kids a lot?



	W:	Yeah, yeah. She lived in Orlando when she first got out of college, Bethune- Cookman, she went to Orlando. And I told her she could come home, I wanted her to come home and do like our parents did, let us get on our feet by staying with them a while. Save the money. And then you got money to go out there you can get what you want and you don’t have to strain for it. Well, she got her first job in Orlando, she was working in the hospital system and she was down there. And then she after three or four years, whatever, five six years, she got married.





She married a fellow and they were still living down there and they carried my wife and I one time out to a subdivision to look at a house, little over a hundred thousand dollars. And when I walked in I could almost put my hand on the kitchen stove. I said, “For a hundred thousand dollars this is what you’re looking at?” Because she had an apartment much bigger than that. So, anyway, on the way back I did tell her, “Your apartment bigger than that.” I wouldn’t tell her about the kitchen stove and all that. So, kind of nicely discouraged ‘em about trying to get that. But I told ‘em, “Any time y’all decide y’all wanna come home, but you’re not gonna be able to buy a mansion box down here.” So, when the children were getting where they had to go to public school it was gon’ be difficult on ‘em because they had to—they were both working and the children had to go to the afterschool program somewhere and all that stuff. So that particular year they were gon’ surprise me by coming home and letting me know on Father’s Day that they were here. They had already gotten apartments out there—can’t think of the name of it now, go out behind the cottage on 9th. And I happened to find out from a fellow at my church, he wasn’t living out there but he was a policeman, so I guess he was out there anyway. He saw ‘em when they were getting it and talked with ‘em and they told him what was happening but they didn’t tell him not to tell me. So he asked me, said, “Cianna and Michael moving home?” I said, “I don’t know! They haven’t moved home or something yet.” Said, “I helped ‘em move home.” I said, “I don’t know.” So anyway, they let me know on Father’s Day that they had moved back and that was my Father’s Day.

	H:	Isn’t that neat?





	W:	So I gave ‘em seven and a half acres of land— H:	From down south? No kidding

	W:	And they moved h0ome, they get seven and a half acres of land from nothing to live on.

	H:	Isn’t that neat? So how old are her kids?



	W:	Twenty-four and—the girl gon’ be twenty-two this year.



	H:	So, you’re getting ready to have some great-grandchildren is what it sounds like. W:	I got one great-grand.

	H:	You got one already?



	W:	Yeah, I got one great-grand up here and one down south, because my son had a second marriage and in that marriage, his wife had a daughter already and she had a child, so I got a great—what? A great-grand, a step-great-grand—that’s what I was trying to say.

	H:	And do you still have land down there or not? You still have land? W:	Yeah.

	H:	And do you still farm any of it?



	W:	I should be down there now mowing my fields.



H:  NO kidding! And what’s in your field? Is it just grass or do you actually have stuff growing?

W:  I used to row plant and stuff, corn and peanuts and stuff like that but I don’t do it anymore so my son-and-law is raising hay and then he’s putting some cows out there.

H:   Okay, it’s all fenced then.





	W:	They cleared it up to do some more fencing. Yeah, I was down on the tractor until about eleven o’clock.

	H:	And I bet in some ways you feel like you’re home when you’re down there, don’t you?

	W:	I do. I enjoy it. I didn’t miss a day of going down to Belleview, I’m just getting now to the where I might miss around here. I’m old; I’m eighty years old now so—

	H:	That’s great.



	W:	Yeah. But I have a heated and air-conditioned tractor, they surprised me with that. Dragged me down there, called me to come down there one night about two years ago and had my own tractor—I have a 2000 Ford Tractor—had it parked and then this other one parked on the other side of it. And I could see mine first and I could see something orange-lookin’ on the other side as I rolled up and rolled on around and it was a Kubota. It was the cab on it, air-conditioned, everything. I can go down there just like I am now and get on that tractor, there’s air conditioning.

	H:	And come home like that. W:	Come home like that.

	H:	It’s a little bit different than walkin’ behind a mule, I guess.



	W:	Oh, yeah. [Laughter] I came a long way. Man, that was the first thing I did was I got out of college. I bought me a tractor. And I got out of agriculture in high school, I said, “I don’t wanna take no ag. I taken it one year, I don’t wanna take no ag no more I’m going to college. I don’t need no ag.” And I got out and went to algebra. And first thing I did when I got out college was bought me a tractor.





	H:	Isn’t that funny. W:	Got out of there.

	H:	I got myself a Ford 8M. A 1950 Ford 8M. W:	That’s my first tractor I bought.

	H:	Was an 8M? Isn’t that something?



W:  Yeah. I just gave that about a year ago to this fellow out at Heat & Air that I call my brother. I just gave it to him, he got old different things making some type of museum or something.

H:  Mine is—I got a bushhog on the back of mine, I still use it. That’s the only thing I use it for is just bushhogging. Isn’t that interesting.

	W:	And then I bought that Ford 2000 and I had two. That’s when my son—[Laughter] My son used to beg me when he was growing up to go down to Belleview with me and he wanted to get on the tractor. And he messed around and begin to grow and I always started him driving anything early, because I learned six, seven years old I was driving around here.

	H:	And walking behind a mule before then it sounds like.



	W:	Yeah, yeah. And anyway, as he grew up and then one Saturday I put him on one of the tractors with the [inaudible 3:20:10] behind each one. And I put him on the big tractor and I was on the 8M. And boy, we cut a ten-acre block and he wanted to come home. [Laughter] He used to always be beggin’, but when he cut all that that afternoon, the two of us, he hadn’t begged me from that day to this one, “Dad, can I go down there and do this.” While he was here, but he hasn’t lived here since he was seventeen years old. He went down to Miami area.





	H:	And now you got an air conditioned cab!



	W:	Yeah, that thing can level—And weeds were higher than the tractor but I know my fields.

	H:	I was about to say, rocks and stumps.



	W:	All I had to do was mow, I know where everything is in those fields much as I worked those fields. But they were beautiful years ago man, you could see all over that whole place. You didn’t have those fence rows that we have now with trees grown up in the fence row and you can’t see like you could then.

	H:	How many acres is still in the family? W:	In the family now, probably about sixty.

	H:	About half of the original piece? Isn’t that something.



	W:	Now we have a White fellow that has brought in there and he and my son in law get along so good. He bought some property that was in the family but only the girl of that family, after her dad died, she was the only business person in the family. She got some brothers. She got a brother in Tennessee and I think one in New York, but they not interested in coming back here or anything back here.

Unless she sell—which she did, I guess they got their share. They got one brother here. So, she tried to hold onto it and I would’ve bought it if I was younger but I didn’t wanna be in no debt, that kinda stuff. But God is good because the fellow that bought it, you couldn’t ask for any better people. He and my son in law together like brother and they workin’ together and using the land together and everything. I just pray it stays like that because it’s a beautiful relationship.





	H:	Well, you’ve had yourself one heck of a life and still goin’ strong is what I’m hearing.

	W:	yeah, enjoyed life.



	H:	Got kids and grandkids and great-grandkids to keep you busy.



	W:	I had my setback when my wife left me but I was able to weather the storm with God’s help. God did it. But the thing I had to know from God, and I prayed, I asked him, I said, “I need an understanding Lord. A good man like that come down with Lugim’s disease,” that I never know about it and that kind of thing, but never been around and never seen anybody with it. I didn’t know at that time, I didn’t know Black people had it and that kind of thing. And that was my concern. And he showed me. Six months after she died, the doctor called me from Mayo Clinic where we used to go and he told me a sample of my wife’s blood showed a breakthrough to a group that was doing research on a phase of it, not the total but a phase of it. And it was a lady doctor from Mayo Clinic, a doctor from Tennessee, and one from South America somewhere, they were researching.

	H:	And it was her blood?



	W:	Her sample of blood gave a breakthrough. And I held the magazine thinkin’ he called me about April or sometime and then in that September—I think it was September or August magazine, it reads and tell you, it doesn’t put her name there or anything, but it reads and tells you about that breakthrough on that particular phase.

	H:	So she’s still giving in her own way.





	W:	Yeah, that’s the thing, she was a community person well-known in the community and active in the community. They have a building named for her over there at the Rec Center, the Senior Service just over beyond the park there, Barbara Washington Senior Service Center. And when she was sick they put up the tents out there and dedicated it right then in the yard, and she was inside a hospital bed and could roll up high enough that she could see out the window from a place right beside her bed. Another group came here one Sunday, a girl that she had coordinated her wedding and everything and that girl brought a group here and they had a little service out there outside. So, they gave her flowers while she lived. Her funeral was at the church, so many people had to turn around you couldn’t get there. But people still repay, they talk about her when they see me and I probably got to the point that I have a friend in Orlando. I don’t plan to get married again or anything, but my daughter really could see that I needed some companionship because she lived in Orlando and she went to church with this lady. Well, I remember seeing a lady one time when we went down there to visits my daughter before she got married and we was just turning to go down the middle isle and my daughter was an usher and this lady was the usher president and she introduced us to her, because that was her good friend. And she was older, you know, and my daughter was kind of like a daughter to her. So, I remember meeting the lady but I couldn’t put a face with her or anything because it wasn’t nothing at that time. I had my wife and wasn’t thinkin’ about nothing. And after about four years, it was almost five years, my daughter and my granddaughter started saying, “Daddy, you oughtta see Mrs. Ida.” I said, “Mrs.





Ida? That sounds like an old woman’s name, Ida.” So anyway, she’s around for about six or eight months, other than that I go down to visit. And finally one night Mrs. Ida called me near Easter. She called me. What had happened, my daughter had persuaded her to give me a call.

	H:	To give you a call?



	W:	Mmhm and she told me who she was and everything and asked me to give you a call and wish you a happy Easter. So, we started talkin’ then and I went down there after about three or four weeks and she was goin’ on a trip to Holy Land.

And I went down there like that Wednesday or Thursday, I think she was leaving that Friday. She was leaving the next day whenever it was and I had to see her before then. I had been talkin’ to her on the phone but I had to see her before she get on that plane. Said, “I’m talking to somebody” and she doing well with that and after I get back and I haven’t even seen her. So, I didn’t tell her that. But anyway, I went down there, we went to Olive Garden and had lunch and so all I could do then was wait for her to get back. So, I’ve enjoyed it.

	H:	That’s nice.



	W:	I go down and she comes up here for a date and stuff.



	H:	And that obviously doesn’t conflict with the memories of your wife because you had a wonderful relationship.

	W:	Oh, yes.



	H:	And she’d be happy knowing that you’re happy seeing somebody else.



	W:	I know my wife released me. I know when she released me. My wife used to come to the door, I never saw her face, but when I lie in the bed, she would come





to the door and look like her arms would be out in a robe or something was on her and she was trying to fly in and just go through me. Just like some figure go through me. And she did that off and on for probably about six months. And then one time, the last time, came in, looked like I could see a skeleton face. And she hadn’t come since.

	H:	Isn’t that interesting?



	W:	I think she was telling me—she would do nothing else, she would do nothing to scare me because that’s why I was able to stay in this house and think nothing because I know my wife wouldn’t do anything to frighten me. But that got a little— that skeleton face like she had dried up and everything. And before I hadn’t even seen the face, but when she told me that that told me that she was saying, “It’s time.”

	H:	It’s time to move on, yeah.



	W:	Yeah. And it was God-sent because I tell the lady, in fact, my wife and my daughter went to her wedding before he died. She had been married twice, her first marriage she said she got married young and everything and they didn’t understand marriage and her husband didn’t understand that he took care of the house and everything but he wanted to go out with the ladies and so on, but he took care of the house. And so that was a divorce. And then she married this other man that he didn’t bring nothing to the table and thought she was gon’ put his name on her house and all that. No sir. And I had said I would not marry or begin a relationship with somebody who has been divorced, because there’s negativism and lack of trust probably. And man, one thing that I can’t say I—I





wouldn’t say I can’t stand but I try to keep from people not having trust in me, anybody not trusting me. That kind of get to me because I don’t intend to hurt anybody.

	H:	You’re straight with everybody. You learned that long before personnel but you had to be straight with folks at personnel.

	W:	And this fellow in Gainesville, he would call me every year about February for about three years I think. The third year, I answered, I called him back. And he would leave word that he wanted to come and go to lunch with me or would I come up there and go to lunch with him. I tell you about the one that got the doctorate and so forth, Charles. What’s Charles last name? But that’s his first name, Charles.

	H:	Not Charles Chestnut?



	W:	No, this was a White fellow. And so, after I started seeing this lady in May and then—because he had called me that February and I didn’t tell him to call because I guess for some reason I didn’t return the call. And I met her in May and then went around to February, again and he called. And I answered. I was here to answer then. And so, he wanted to go out to lunch. And I said, “Fine, fine.” So, he said, “We’ll come over there and we’ll go to—” he named a place. I said, “Fine.” He says, “Okay if we bring somebody along with us for you to meet?” I said, “No, I’m really not interested in meeting anybody else because I just met a lady and we’ve been going together long enough to know that I would like to continue with her, I can’t be bothered around trying to play no games at my age.” And so, I don’t want to meet anybody else because—not for that





reason. So, he tried, “No, Charles, don’t bring anybody now. Let’s go to lunch.” And so anyway, but she was—if I hadn’t met this other lady first, she would’ve been probably the one because her husband had died and I feel that a person whose spouse had died, they don’t mind me talking about—

	H:	That’s a different story.



	W:	My wife and our good relationship and that kind of thing. You have to be careful around somebody that had two divorces, although she is a good lady. She is a good lady, Christian lady and people love her, the one I’m talkin’ about. So, they came and they showed me these pictures and everything, and I said, “Yeah, well that’s good. She’s a nice-looking lady and everything but I’m the type of person I don’t make a whole lot of changes.” Like I told this lady, I said, “Now, you’re the third person. I had a lot of girlfriends, but you the third person that I have ever— you’ve got a relationship with my family.” I said, “My high school girlfriend, she had a relationship—” In other words, if I take you home to mom and dad, you up top. So, my high school girlfriend and also college was the only one that ever been to the house, and then my wife that I married, Barbara. I started carrying her with me when we first started seeing each other. I said, “And you the third one, my mom and dad gone but you got a relationship, you been and saw my sister, you saw my children and that kind of thing.” I’m not a person that anytime I get a girlfriend—I got a nephew. And I had to get him straight. He’s a good- lookin’ boy and six months for a girl, that was about it. And I couldn’t stand that, but he always wanted to bring ‘em around here. And I love him, and I get the





feeling for the girls he bring around. Just about the time I’m getting a good feeling for ‘em, they’re gone.

	H:	They’re gone, he’s moved on.



	W:	They’re gone! I said, “Man, I’m sick of that.” I said, “Don’t bring no more around here. I don’t care who you get, don’t bring ‘em around here if you can’t settle down. You been through ‘em and stay in there twenty-three year.” And he’s out and he has good money because he has a disability—he knew how to get out. He followed a colonel—no, wasn’t a colonel, what’s the highest level?

	H:	General.



	W:	General. He followed a general around his last five or six years keeping his sound system, setting up for him and all od that, have to go over 208 and all those places back and up in the mountains and that kind of thing. Got a picture of him shaking George—

	H:	Bush.



	W:	Bush hand in one of those mountains. So, he make good money. But he— H:	Can’t keep a girlfriend.

	W:	Can’t make his mind up. Now, he got some children. He got one boy in Texas and his oldest daughter is in Texarkana with—we have a Texarkana, Texas and Arkansas. And then he got another daughter, I think she’s in Orlando now must’ve moved to Orlando. And he treats ‘em all good, he sees about ‘em and everything but what boys end up doing when they do that and they been around people and been raised as a family, they want to make their family. You can’t make that a family. Those mothers not gon’ let me be the kind of family that you





want if you got children over here and here. The kind of family you want, that’s not gonna happen. So, that’s the only thing about that but he sees about all of ‘em and everything and sends ‘em money and so on.

H:  My guess is there are a bunch of folks out there that look to you as a role model and as a—what’s the word? A wise man, whether they can follow your advice or not, they look to you for it I’m sure. And in addition to your role as a parent and a grandparent and a great-grandparent, like you say, when you see people on the street and they remember you whether you remember them or not, you’ve made a difference.

W:  Yeah, oh yeah. I run into, “Mr. Washington, you gave me a job.” “You gave my husband a job.”

H:   “Or you gave me a lecture and I needed to hear it!” [Laughter]



W:  That too. And some of ‘em, “You tore my tail at NH Jones or down at Stanton- Weirsdale.

H:   [Laughter] That’s funny.



	W:	Yeah, I got some in there right now. They gave me a good eightieth birthday party. They had it set up one group came in, I guess from two thirty to something—

	H:	Where was this?



	W:	They had it at the MT, right there off of 200—



	H:	Oh, the school board office there, whatever that’s called.





	W:	Yeah, that’s a college now or something, they got a college. Anyway, had it there and she told me that they were having something that Vienella’s son— what’s the boy name?

	H:	That I don’t know.



W:  Anyway, Vienella was having something and see, that program that they have, MTI program that they have, that was my platform in 2002 when I ran for school board that I wanted to do something for the fifty percent of children that don’t go to college, I want them to come out of school ready to go to work.

	H:	And that was your program? W:	It was, yeah.

	H:	Can I pause this just for a second? [Break in interview]

	W:	I wasn’t still workin’ I was retired. H:	Right.

	W:	I think I retired seven years when I ran, I still was growin’ right after I got out and more people would know me. In seven years, a lot of new people had come in that didn’t know me and it was county-wide. But anyway, my platform was to have more career-type classed for children starting in the middle school, really. It didn’t start where I wanted, I wanted more back down in middle school.

	H:	Sure.



	W:	That they used to have, because the average kid—see, you got this thing now where going from third to fourth you have to have a test to get to fourth grade.

	H:	I know it too well as a guidance counselor, sure.





	W:	And that turns a lot of students off. In other words, by the time some students get over in sixth or seventh grade, they really are a potential drop-out.

	H:	Yeah.



	W:	And that shouldn’t be. You cannot start school with kindergarten and trying to start everybody gin’ to college. No, that’s not gonna happen. So, I was an advocate of the kind of program that I wanted to put into the school system. It started at tenth grade, whenever it starts. Well, that’s good, I appreciate that but at the same time they need to get something lower also.

	H;	Isn’t that the truth! Because at least when I was a kid, seventh and eighth grade, if you hated school it was a downhill spiral from there on out.

	W:	And that kid that’s in that fourth grade, didn’t make it from third to d=fourth, and mess around, you gon’ lose that kid.

	H:	Exactly.



	W:	So if I had gotten on the school board—I left something everywhere I went. The RISE program, the ECPC program at Madison Street. Down at the county office I got a clipping in there where we got a hundred percent on a state audit in the exit audit program when the man came in to talk and tell us about what was what.

And he said, “It’s just one thing that’s happened that just didn’t’ happen, and that’s personnel getting a hundred percent.” And we got a hundred percent. But my people, I can’t talk enough about those ladies that were in personnel. I had to get things in order, now, because personnel and finance didn’t hardly talk to each other and you’ve got to work with finance because number one, personnel certifies all the salaries and finance can’t pay a thing until personnel certifies it.





And when I got down there, it was two ladies that definitely didn’t speak to each other in the two departments, and it kind of hurt everybody because wherein you should pick up a phone and call and say, “We need such-and-such a thing or whatever,” they write notes or letters.

	H:	They weren’t talking to each other.



	W:	No, weren’t talking to each other. After I found that out I called the main lady that was involved in my area and I called her in and we were talking and in fact, she asked me, she said, “Do I need to start looking for another position?” I said, “No, but you probably can do a good job of straightening up in this one and we’d be glad to have you, but we gon’ have to do something different in terms of what I understand is happening.” So then, I called Bill McClain and asked him if I could talk to the lady in his place. And Bill told me, say, “Yeah,” still the expression, “Get this damn shit straight” was going on. [Laughter] So anyway, I called and Nancy came over and answered and I talked and she shared with me the things that were happening and I just asked her if we could have a better relationship. Marleen had said that she wants to straighten up and have a relationship of really working together. And so, the thing that really put us together was we had to come up with a different personnel form. That personnel status form that you have to fill out. And man, the first three or four weeks, maybe a month or a little more, it was me and that board group and I would tell ‘em, I told ‘em, just a couple times I said, “Now, when we come in,” let me see, we had about three different persons from finance, Benny, Jackie, Marleen, and myself—so four or five from personnel. I said, “Now, when we come in, let’s leave our feelings at the





door because we in here to work and get something done and we can do it, but we can’t have our feelings on our shoulder.” And sure enough, we worked on that thing and then we said when we were coming back and had assignments to do, working on, and they would go. And so, we came up with two phones, the green phone was for people just being hired and then the black phone was for people that were already hired being transferred or something. And that thing probably still there today, I don’t know. I know you fill out on a computer now.

	H:	Yeah, it was still paper I think when I left.



	W:	Well, they got to have something, that form was basic and there wasn’t too much in there unless you put the whole thing on a computer that you could change.

	H:	Mmhm.



	W:	And we did that and probably about two or three months after I was there the wonderful person, the one from finance, came over and told me, said, “Mr.

	Washington I enjoy working with you so good.” H:	Isn’t that cool? Three months!

	W:	Yeah. Said, “Everything is going so fine.” So, then, later on my office was supposed to be moved. [Laughter] Well, it was supposed to be enlarged because I had a little office, you go in the door down the hall in the main building now, not—

	H:	Oh, I don’t remember. Oh, that is where it was. Right, before they moved over to the other location, yeah, that’s right.

	W:	And you went in the room and then there was a little office over there in the corner. And so, that was my office. But then you had a big office behind it, and so





my boss, Nick Marcos, because me and Nick went down to the county office together. See, nick said he wasn’t going down—now we hadn’t worked together in six and half years.

	H:	And ended up going down there at the same time?



	W:	No, it was ten years because I had been over at Fort Cane for ten years. So we hadn’t worked together, and one day my secretary told me, said, “Mr. Archibald and Mr. Marcos say they on their way over here.” “What they are coming over here for?” Well, Skip had just won the election and here they come over, Frank, we want you to go down to the county office in such-and-such a position.” Well, Nick was gonna be an assistant superintendent too. I was gon’ be the director. But I told him, “No, I ain’t goin’ down there for no fifty-cent.” [Laughter] But anyway, he told me, “We changing that.” I told him, “I’ll have to let you know I have to pray over this thing.” Y’all been knowing all the time while you been running everything, you been doing what you wanted but now you come over to me and all of a sudden want me to give you a, “Yes, I’m going to the county office.” Which I never had in my mind I wanted to go to the county office. So, I said, “I’ll let you know sometime tomorrow.” Well, again I had my overnight and then I even went to several different people. I went to my preacher, I went to Reverend Broxton and my preacher was Lorenzo Elberts. And I went to Thomas George which was my—

	H:	Your longtime principal.



	W:	Yeah, and I think I went to Bernard Gold just talking about it. And they were looking for me the next day, I told my secretary, “I got some runs to make and I’ll





be back in about three hours.” So, they were calling and I hadn’t gotten there so they went over to Barbara, my wife was the next librarian, so they went over to her. “Barbara, Frank hasn’t called us yet.” [Laughter] “Think you can find him and persuade him?” She said, “Now I’m gon’ tell you one think, Frank gon’ make up his own mind.” [Laughter] Said, “I can day anything I wanna, Frank gon’ make up his own mind.” So, finally I went back over there that day and I told ‘em I was going. But I’ve had some good experiences. I really haven’t had any bad, bad experiences that I can tell you about.

	H:	Well, it sounds like you cut ‘em off at the pass. What could’ve been bad experiences you stood up and got things straightened out before they got out of hand is what it sounds like.

	W:	Just like what I told you about that other one, I forgot about that one. You know, because it was cut off at the pass and I had to stand up over him. I guess that would’ve been a bad experience, but it turned out it wasn’t He became a best friend. And another one about that office I was telling you about, we went to Key West, Nick and I went to Key West to a state meeting. When we got back, I was supposed to have a guy—supposedly he was over maintenance, he was the assistant superintendent for maintenance. He was supposed to have cut that opening in my office an opening to the back of Nick’s office and Nick still would have a big office and then I would’ve been larger, because it’s supposed to go in and wall that up to Nick’s and Nick was up here and I would’ve been back there from that point. Well, we got back and it hadn’t happened. What had happened,





the assistant superintendent for maintenance had moved in Nick’s office because Nick had another office then. Had moved in Nick’s office—

	H:	While you were gone?



	W:	The big office, yeah. So we were standing in the hall and he told us about he hadn’t done it and that kind of thing. So Nick looked at me said, “Aren’t you gon’ curse him out?” [Laughter] And I said, “No, I’m gon’ pray for him I’m not gon’ curse him out. I’ll pray for him.” And as I left him boy he looked at me strange, you know. That’s how I left him. Do you know he gave me a whole building, that personnel building, by Osceola? He gave me that whole building, not an office, he gave me a whole building.

	H:	How soon after that was that that he did that? Was that pretty soon?



	W:	Yeah, about the next four or five weeks. He started working on it and everything, he told me he would be my building. All right, now here’s what happened, the fellow that was over that crew to work on it, I had had his daughter at Fort Cane, she was an aid in one of the programs—a reading aid or something. But she was having some problems. Some of it was mental stress, I think, or something. So, she had to kind of be out a lot. But I always made a way to try to cover for her with somebody else, I never put the pressure on her being out too much. I never told her that because I think it was like I say some kind of mental stress and I certainly didn’t want to add to it. And so, I really worked with her and everything and I’ve forgotten whether she was straight before I left or what. I forgot what happened now. But anyway, I never pressured her about being there and that kind of thing. Well, that was her daddy that was over this project, and her daddy





told me—I didn’t know it was her dad—he told me, he said, “You know that was my daughter you had at Fort Cane and you really treated her well.” Said, “I appreciate that because she as having some problems, marital problems and various things. And you never put any pressure on her that added to it. And I appreciate that and you don’t have to worry about this building, you gon’ have the biggest office back there, you have the nicest office you ever wanna see.” And this building gon be—

	H:	Isn’t that neat, you never know when you’re going to get your thank-you. That’s great.

	W:	Right, and he made me an office so big I got shamed and had to put me a closet all the way across one of the walls. It was nice. Carpet, paper on the walls, everything.

	H:	yeah, that’s the office that I remember the most. I had forgotten about the one at the main building. Well, we better finish up I have taken a lot of your time up.





Transcribed by: Abby Lovett, October 19, 2021 Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, October 19, 2021 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, October 20, 2021