AAHP 429; Hayes; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 429 Ethel Reid Hayes African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Lillian Griffith on January 19, 1983 10 minutes | 6 pages





Abstract: Ms. Hayes begins by discussing her family and their professions/history. She then speaks about her experience teaching and working at a library. She then speaks a bit about her father and Castle Madrid before the recording cuts off.





Keywords: [Military, African American History; Black History;]



























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 429 (Newtown Oral History Project) Interviewee: Ethel Reid Hayes Interviewer: Lillian Griffith

Date: January 19, 1983



	I:	This is the interview with Ethel Reid Hayes. Today is January 19, 1983. And the interviewer is Lillian Griffith. May I call you by your first name, Ethel Beth? What are your family’s area connections there?

	H:	My mother’s family came here in 1886. My mother then was three years old. My grandfather worked with the Colonel in clearing the forest. And after my grandparents were here, my great-aunt and uncle came. His name was Lewis Colton, his wife was Irene Colton. They lived on the corner of 4th and Coconut Avenue. There are three banyan trees on Coconut that were planted by my great- uncle almost a hundred years ago. And they are still alive, and beautiful trees.

Well, I would say my family came in 1886. And—



	I:	What were the names of the ones that first came, your granddad?



	H:	My grandfather was Mose Coleman. His wife was Fannie Coleman, my grandmother.

	I:	C-O-L—?



	H:	C-O-L-E; it is, yes. And they, my grandparents came here from an area where there wasn’t much for them to get on, to get along with, so they came down to live a better life, they felt. And I think someone introduced them to Colonel, and the camp gave them work.

	I:	Colonel Hampton.



	H:	Colonel J. Hamilton Gillespie, yes. My father came the last year of December, 1900. And it’s easy for us to keep up with it, because he reminded us that my cousin, one of my first cousins, was born that very night. Ida Colton was her name.





But my—



	I:	Your dad was Leonard?—



	H:	Leonard S. Reid. He was with a group of Italian fishermen, and they were on their ship out of Savannah, Georgia, going to Cuba to carry fish. And my dad said they stopped here to get more fish, or to refuel. The little village of Sarasota was just a fishing village then. And when the fishermen stopped the– he left the boat, and came up in the area, and the townspeople were having a party. And of course, he enjoyed their party. I think he stayed two days, and went back to the pier, but his boat had gone to Cuba and left him here. And he was a stranger, he didn’t know anyone. So, the men around who were more or less fishermen introduced him to Colonel, and Colonel said—and of course, my father was a kind of clean-cut type of guy, and these fishermen were rugged men. And my father had a little more education than most of the fellows around here—And Colonel accepted him as his houseman. Now, Colonel and Mrs. Gillespie reared my mother from the age of seven, until she married my father at the age of eighteen.

	I:	And your mother was the daughter of?— H:	Mose and Fannie Coleman.

	I:	Mose and Fannie. And what was her name?



	H:	Eddie, E-D-D-I-E. She had a boy’s name. Eddie Coleman. I:	Where did your grandparents live when they first?—

	H:	When they came here, they were somehow in the area near, I think– let’s see. It seems to me near Lemon Avenue, and what is now 6th Street. One of those old houses. It was demolished not too many years ago. It stood there all the time, until





we grew up. After we grew up, they demolished that house. And that’s where the Coleman’s lived. And of course, when my dad came here, he lived on the Colonel’s premises. And down there.

	I:	The South, at that time, was really quite— H:	On Morrow.

	I:	Were they up there in 1900, or were they still down on Palm Avenue?



	H:	Oh, I think Colonel was on– when my dad came, they were on Morrow right where the preschool is now. And my brother Ray grew up right in that area. Because Momma was still working for Colonel when Ray was born. She and Pop married, then she stayed on there with Colonel.

[Break in recording]



	H:	I think that– and I got a job [inaudible 4:57], and I worked there for [inaudible 5:06].



Just like I [inaudible 5:12]. And I taught there for a number of years. And I made time for my students. Summer school, [inaudible 5:20]. And, well, that’s how I worked into my college degree. And then, during the war, when my husband was stationed in California, I went out there, to University of Southern California, and took training there. And [inaudible 5:36], I was going to leave California because he was discharged, he wanted to stay there. And of course he wanted to come back home. So in California, I worked at the library. And that’s where I got the information to get a library for our children here. Because I know, back in the years, we didn’t have a library for the school. And that killed me. I just kept– I learned to just appreciate a lot of– because my father raised me that, and it was expected that we had to read. They made sure that we read, too. What’s going to





happen to us if– and he established the first library for us. And [inaudible 6:14]. And they’d have to read, and they’d have to tell us what they read. So, [inaudible 6:38]. I told the board members, I said, “One thing: I want us to [inaudible 6:47].” Well, I kept at them. Looking after the children, a little library for them. And I just [inaudible 6:57].

	I:	This is Tiara, this is [inaudible 7:14]. What was your [inaudible 7:17]?



	H:	My father worked for Mr. Calvin Baines after Colonel died. That was his next job.



And he stayed with that family fifty-five years. Through all of my childhood, we lived around Ms. Sadie Thelma Baines. And the paywall—it’s not a sea wall, it’s a big concrete wall down there on Conch; I look at that as I think how my good friend and I used to walk across that wall. And we [inaudible 7:46]— I don’t know where he is now.

I: Charleston. H: Charleston? I:  George is.

	H:	But they had just one boy. I:	That’s George.

	H:	That’s the one.



	I:	[Inaudible 8:01].



	H:	I know, I—



	I:	[Inaudible 8:04].



	H:	Oh, I thought I hadn’t think about it in a long, long time. They would go down there and—





[Break in recording]



	H:	I don’t know a man around here who would be— [inaudible 8:28]. He knew it with somebody, [inaudible 8:38]. But it’s good that they started here, started now. Just, Daddy.

	[Break in recording] I:	[Inaudible 8:53]

	H:	I don’t know know a man around here who’d be able to do that. [Break in recording]

U1: [Later recording] Mrs. Hayes is talking about her brother, Ray.



	H:	And a lot of the young folks, younger people back in the days, like Mary Bradley, and Carolyn MacDill-Mullen, you could have parties with them. And played at Castle Madrid. He entertained everybody at the Castle Madrid. He played for Mr. John Raymond when they gave him a party, when he was very old. And they thought this would bring him back, that would help him. They brought in all the tricks; I think Ms. Willis worked that out, Mrs. Rothwell. And [inaudible 9:58] Jefferson played that organ, and played that piano. And he was magic. And not too long ago before he died, I took him up there, we went through, and he was– he could tell us more about the different places. Because we’d go up there, just a regular look, take him in the bar, give him a drink. And oh, he was such a dream then. So, one of the ladies up there insisted—

[End of recording]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, July 9, 2018





	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, September 27, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 26, 2019