AAHP 150; Calhoun; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 150 Marie Calhoun

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Allen Kent on November 17, 2010

1 hour, 18 minutes | 42 pages



Abstract: Marie Calhoun grew up in farm country outside of Newberry, Florida. She describes the community she grew up in, including the gatherings initiated by church events, and the farmwork that she and most other children did growing up, including picking tobacco in the summers. She started attending A.L. Mebane High School in eighth grade. Her father ran his own sawmill. Ms. Calhoun describes some of the activities that she was involved in during her time at Mebane, and also recalls the annual May Day celebrations. She also offers her recollections of segregation, and the Civil Rights Movement in Gainesville. She also offers some thoughts on voting, and then reflects on the importance of her family to her.





[Keywords: African American History; Alachua County, Florida; A.L. Mebane High School]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 150

Interviewee: Marie Calhoun Interviewer: Alan Kent Date: November 17, 2010



	K:	This will start broad and general. I just want to know kind of what it was like growing up in the general area. Kind of what, you know, you went through. Family life, community life, school life, anything you want to start talking about.

	C:	Okay. I grew up in the Newberry area. I don’t know if you know where Newberry is. Okay. We lived out between Newberry and Archer in the little community called Half Moon.

	K:	Okay.



	C:	My father owned a sawmill in Newberry, and my mother did domestic work/ house work off and on, so we were pretty much kind of between home and my father’s sawmill, and just different stuff. And I did elementary through—first through eighth grade out in Newberry. The school was located where the Newberry day care center is now. There’s two of the build—the buildings that they used were actually part of our school. The block building was the cafeteria where the day care center is now. And then there’s a block building out there that was our bathrooms. I believe it’s still bathrooms. And now they have a ballpark or something there. I think the city has a park there. But that’s where I went to school, first through eighth grade. Started school at five years old. I loved school. It was pretty interesting. We had most of our teachers were local people from the area, so they knew your family, your family knew them, and it was kind of an interesting growing up life. I remember starting school—I actually remember my first day of school, but after that I don’t remember very much. And I remember every morning we would line up on the sidewalk. Let’s see, first grade was a





portable building, then we had another little building that looked like a house that was a second grade room which later became my library. And then there was this one huge building that had four classrooms in it. So from first through eighth grade were housed in those rooms, and I remember lining up every morning in front of the big building on the sidewalk to do the flag salute. And then in the classroom—you know, back then, our schools were pretty much faith-based. We did the morning devotion and every morning you had to come up with the Bible verse. Everybody did. I don’t remember anybody objecting to it. If there were people who were not Christians then or who were opposed to the Bible, nobody ever said anything. But that was pretty much the way our day went. I felt like I got a pretty basic education in those elementary grades.

	K:	I assume it was probably pretty small based on what you said about the buildings and whatnot that you went to.

	C:	Well, compared to now, yes. There were probably—because when we got to third, fourth—it seems like the higher the grade, the fewer the students. And even like seventh and eighth grade, the classes were combined. You had seventh and eighth grade in the same classroom even though seventh graders were doing the seventh grade curriculum and eighth grade, so t was pretty small.

	K:	Well, let’s see. I’ll start or go back to your parents here. If you could talk a little bit more about them. You said your mother did domestic work?

	C:	Well, yes. I’m the third one from the baby. K:	How many siblings?





	C:	And there were nine—she gave birth to nine children. I only remember eight of them because one that was older than me only lived for about a year. But my three older brothers were teenage-to-adult as long as I can remember. So there were five of us that were kinda together there. And when my baby sister, who is about three years younger than me—three, four years younger—was about four or five years old, my mother started taking in a wash. You know, this lady, she would pick up her clothes, take them home, wash them, iron them, whatever.

Take them back to her. And then that kinda gradually went on to her getting day’s work here and there. You know, going out. And some of those times before—you know, when she would go to work maybe one or two days a week, we would spend time with our dad. Like I said, he ran a saw mill. So there were days when he was at the mill cutting lumber and then there were some days when he was out looking for lumber to buy, to cut. So that was pretty much our life with them.

That was pretty much it. [Laughter]



	K:	Did you ever help either of them with kind of going out and go to work with them?



	C:	Oh, yes, yes. We loved hanging around the sawmill, especially when mama wasn’t around. Because we got to do neat little things that she would never have let us do because she thought it was too dangerous. She did, you know, sometimes on Saturdays, she would take us with her to clean house. I guess it was her way of teaching you to do stuff. That was one of the reasons that I said, I am not going to do this. [Laughter] They did involve us in their work.

	K:	Sure.





	C:	They did. So we got a little taste of that, got a little taste of cleaning house and working around the sawmill. But our main—my parents would not let us miss school to work. So the main time that we worked was during the summer. They grow a lot of tobacco around here, as in the Carolinas, so we worked during the summer in tobacco. But as far as during the school year, we were not allowed to miss school. Now, there were kids that had no choice because they lived on a farm or their parents were sharecropping, so when the crops were ready, they had to. But we were fortunate enough that my father had his own business, so we were able to not have to miss school to work. And I have a brother who’s about a year and a half older than me, or maybe two years older—I have to think about dates—who joined the military. During his college years he joined the ROTC, so he’s a retired full colonel. And then my baby sister is a nurse out in Nevada. Her husband was military, so they ended up way out there. I have another one that just finished working at Shands in environmental services. And my oldest sister lives in Chiefland. So, you know, we’re all pretty self-sufficient.

	K:	Close enough to see each other often, I’m sure. C:	Except for the one that’s way out in Nevada.

	K:	A little far.



	C:	Yeah. But she comes home once a year, at least. So we still stay pretty close. I enjoyed my childhood.

	K:	Did you have a good relationship with your siblings growing up?



	C:	Yes, yes, yes. And our mother and father. My father died in 1964. My mother died in [19]96, so pretty long life. My oldest brother, I can’t remember what year





he died. [19]89? And then the next to the oldest brother somehow wrangled enough money out of my dad during his young years to get a pilot’s license. He took pilot lessons and he worked with the crop dusting company. And he decided one day to go out and just fly for fun and crashed over in Archer area, so that’s how he died. But we had a really good relationship. My father was well-known in the community, so we probably got away with stuff that a lot—[laughter]—yeah, so. But anyway.

	K:	What was the community life like? What was it like growing up around here?



	C:	Okay, we lived out in the country. So we weren’t really a part of the Newberry community except for when maybe we stopped over at the saw mill after school. And hung around there and visited people around. Even out in the country, it was pretty close-knit. My mother’s sister lived right down the road from us and other people, so we would stand out and catch the bus and wave at one another down the road and visit, so it was a close-knit family. A community family.

	K:	A community family.



	C:	We all went to the same church and everything. Actually, I still go to that same church because not many of us left.

	K:	So what kinds of things brought the community together? What kinds of things did you guys do? I’m sure church events were probably big.

	C:	Well, church events were probably the biggest thing, and then, like I said, during the summer we worked in tobacco, and the kids in the community, we all kind of worked for the same people. And at school. Because being a small community in Newberry, and we were right outside the city limits, we still spent a lot of time





doing school activities because we had a basketball team, we had a chorus. We had just other little things that we did at school.

	K:	What kinds of activities and sports and whatnot were you involved in?



	C:	I was not very athletic. I tried to play on the basketball team, but I never got a chance to play. I did try singing in the chorus. But we also did little drama things like plays and stuff, which I really got a chance to do more of because I like to read. Those were the kind of things that we did. I never learned to skate like my sister, so didn’t get to do that.

	K:	What kind of skating?



C:  Just sidewalk skating. They had the old metal skates with the key that you could pull apart and make them larger or smaller or whatever. But that was basically it. We did a lot of made-up games.

K:   Like what?



C:  Like tag and playing house and climbing trees and just that type of stuff. Just something to keep you occupied.

K:  It’s interesting that those things kinda go throughout regardless of region and time period because those are the same kind of things we did when we were kids.

C:  That was pretty much my childhood. Going to Sunday school and coming home, and going to church.

K:   But you liked school? It’s one of your favorite things?



C:  I loved school. I hated missing school. If you missed, you missed something. [Laughter] I loved school.





	K:	What were your favorite subjects? C:	Reading.

	K:	Reading?



	C:	Mhm. I did not like math a whole lot. K:	Me either. [Laughter]

	C:	I was an honor student. As a matter of fact, I graduated second in my class, [19]64. And like I said, from first through eighth, I went to school in Newberry. Then we didn’t have a high school for Black kids in Newberry. During my older brother years, they went to high school in Archer. In the late [19]50s, somehow the county or someone decided that they were going to combine some efforts, and that’s where Mebane became involved. So in 1957, they did a lot of change and they closed the high school in Archer so the kids from Archer went to school here in Gainesville at Lincoln. Which means that the children from Newberry had to have somewhere to go, so they closed the high school in High Springs, and the high school kids from Newberry and High Springs went to Alachua to Mebane. So when I finished eighth grade, I started at Mebane. And needless to say, it was quite a ride. I rode three buses to school every morning and three buses every afternoon because, like I said, I lived in the country. So I had to ride a bus to get to the school in Newberry, where we boarded another bus, and rode halfway to Alachua, and boarded another bus that took us to Alachua. So I didn’t get involved in a lot of the after school activities in Alachua because of the distance and having to have the transportation and everything. I did do band one year, but it was fun. It was really. It was the same thing. Most of the teachers





were local people that knew families, and even the ones that lived in Alachua or High Springs, they would do enough visits and stuff that they pretty much knew the families. The school was probably five or six hundred students, which is small on the scale today.

K:  I guess it depends on where you are. That’s about how big mine was in South Carolina, but then I moved to Raleigh and it was two thousand people going to school there. That was a big change for me.

C:  That’s a tri-city area, huh. K:   Yeah, it’s a big area.

	C:	Our school was—once they built the new school, I guess it kinda took time for stuff to trickle in as far as supplies and labs. But I took chemistry in eleventh grade and I remember pretty much having a pretty neat lab to work in with the burners and the things. The stuff to mix and doing dissections of different things and all. I kinda felt like it was a pretty well-rounded education. Once I got to college, though, I thought, uh-oh. [Laughter] Hey, where have these kids been? So undoubtedly there was some difference in the schools, because I went to college one summer—I didn’t ever go long enough to get a degree because I started working—but then I could see some of the disparities between when I sat there in class, that those kids had been exposed to a lot more things than we had. But like I said, that base that I got in elementary school, I think, was pretty sufficient.

	K:	Where’d you go to college?





	C:	I went one summer down to Central Florida in Ocala, and I took some classes at Santa Fe here, but like I said, I never went long enough to get a degree. When I was in high school, I kind of focused on business education, so I took a lot of business classes. And when I left school, my business ed teacher—an opening came at the school for a secretary or clerical person—so she recommended me, and I went in and I started working and I just kinda got hooked. [Laughter] So, you know, I took some little classes for improvement or whatever, but that’s basically what happened. And then I spent the next thirty-some years working in the school system.

	K:	My mom does secretarial work and bookkeeping for her church up in Durham, actually. A place called Holly Springs. But that’s kind of what she’s always done. She’s always done bookkeeping and clerical work.

	C:	I said, okay, you go to college to get an education at that time so you could get a job. I don’t know what these kids are thinking about now, but [laughter]. But, you know, I thought, okay, I’ve got a job. And then I got married, and then I had a couple of kids.

	K:	When did you get married? C:	When?

	K:	Mhm.



	C:	In 1966.



	K:	And what year did you say you graduated from high school? C:	[19]64.

	K:	[19]64.





	C:	I spent the next thirty-three years working for the Alachua County school board, then retired in 1997.

	K:	How’d you like that? C:	Retirement?

	K:	[Laughter] We can get to that, but how’d you like the work there?



	C:	Oh, it was always interesting. I worked in several different departments. Student services and cultural enrichment and I ended up the last twenty-some-odd years of my work in student records. When students left the county, I would copy their records and forward them on to the new school and file the folders. And then when and if they came back, pull the folders and send them back to the school. So that’s what I was doing for the last twenty/ twenty-one years of working, was keeping track of student records, of students leaving and returning in the county. And the microfilming of graduate’s records.

	K:	That’s good work. You enjoyed it?



	C:	It was. It was something that you could just work along on. There were no time limits, really. Well, naturally, if a student leaves and you get the records, you’re gonna send them as soon as possible. But it was not a stressful job. It was kind of a day-to-day thing.

	K:	Sure. What were your relationships with—it sounds like you had a good—you keep saying you had a good base in elementary school and whatnot. What were your relationships like with your teachers? Your personal relationship. I know they knew you, they knew the general community and your parents and whatnot.





	C:	In my thoughts of elementary school, you didn’t really have personal relationships with the teachers. It was more on a teacher-student basis. As a matter of fact, some of my teachers, I never knew their first names. You know, it was very professional. They kept that leverage of teacher-student. That’s the way it was then. It’s totally different now. There wasn’t really a personal relationship, it was always teacher-student.

	K:	But you still learned a lot.



	C:	Oh, yes. Our teachers were teachers of the subject that you were in, but they were also kind of counselors-like. You got life lessons along with the math and the science and all that stuff, too.

	K:	Kind of like it should be. C:	Yep.

	K:	When you were growing up, what were your young ambitions? What were your dreams, like what you wanted to be when you grew up and whatnot?

	C:	Well, at one point, I wanted to be a nurse. And then I saw how much work they do. [Laughter]

	K:	[Laughter]



	C:	I think the fact that I had access to a lot of business ed opportunities in high school was what changed that. And the fact that financially, I knew that I was not—I kind of felt like I was not going to be able to do a whole lot beyond high school, because there just weren’t that many things available at the time. So I kind of concentrated on that, and then once I got the job, I thought, Hey, this is something I like to do. So I just kind of pursued that. Like I said, my youngest





sister just got her master’s in nursing last summer. And she’s like three years younger than me, so it was something she wanted to do. And she just, you know, she was working, but she kept at it, she kept taking classes, but I thought, That’s not for me. [Laughter] That’s not for me.

	K:	You like school, but that’s a bit too much? C:	Yeah, well, I’m working, so.

	K:	That’s understandable. C:	Mhm.

	K:	So the business ed things you did in high school, what kind of opportunities are you talking about? You said you had business ed opportunities.

	C:	Okay, I took typing so that I was pretty accurate in that. And I took—there was a course called clerical office practice, which taught you a lot of things about working in an office, etiquette, and how to deal with people, and different stuff like that. And secretarial things. Those were the kind of classes that I took.

Business math and stuff and all like that, so that I could do that. So I worked as school secretary for a few years, and between that it kinda graduated to other things. And I ended up at the central office.

	K:	How much of that do you think you were affected by your father running his own business? Was that kind of make you go in that direction?

	C:	No, I don’t know. I never really thought of that. It could have. But I never really thought of that. What was always so interesting about my father was he was an older person. He was probably in his fifties when I was born. And he would tell us all the time that he never really went to school. But I mean, his math! Some of the





stuff that he did, I probably never learned because he had to figure his lumber and how many trees he was going to need to do this order for this person and how many two by fours and how many this and that and the other. It was always amazing to see the things that he did, and with the amount of schooling that he had, and I think my mother said she had like a sixth-grade education? And the things that they did, you know, and I thought, Hey. If they can do that with the little opportunity that they had, what’s out there for us? And even now, it’s ten times. There could have been some correlation between that. I never really thought about it.

	K:	Yeah. [Laughter]



	C:	But there could have been. But they always supported us. Like I said, we were probably blessed kids to have the parents and the support that we had, even though we didn’t have a whole lot of money and stuff. But we did have their support.

	K:	Sometimes more important. C:	Yeah.

	K:	What was it like for him running his own company in the general area back then?



Was there much competition for what he was doing for in the general area?



	C:	No, there was one other guy in Newberry that had a sawmill, and his was kind of like out between High Springs and Newberry. And then there was the lumber company in Alachua. But I remember him talking to those people and going to them and them exchanging stuff. And also, he got along really well in the





community. He had the support of the community. I don’t know how he did it, but he did. But I’m sure he knew those people a long time before I was born.

	K:	True.



	C:	Have you ever been to Newberry? K:	I haven’t.

	C:	Then you won’t know what I was about to say. K:	No, but go ahead and tell me.

	C:	The sawmill was right in the middle of Newberry. If you ever go to Newberry and you know where the gun shop is, there’s a drainage pit behind that gun shop, and that’s where our sawmill sat. Right there in the middle of town.

	K:	If I ever make it that way out there, I’ll be sure to look for it. [Laughter] Like I said, I’ve only been here for—long enough to have explored the general area, but haven’t gone much outside of here. If I ever do, it’s usually going back home or something like that to visit the family.

	C:	But no, he got along real well with the competition and everything and like I said, I knew the Nippers had the other sawmill, and then they had the Duke Lumber in Alachua. But his was more or less rough lumber. I guess sort of like they do at Griffis up in Alachua. I don’t know of him having any problems. He did a little farm work, too. He would plant tobacco and stuff during the summer. That was pretty much it.

K:  What was working on—you said people whose families were sharecroppers and whatnot. How much did you know about sharecropping and what farm work was like?





	C:	I don’t know a whole lot about sharecropping. In my mind, I’m assuming they planted the crops together and maybe a portion was given to that person that was living there. Some of them were living on the property of the other people, I guess, for free. Living in a house that belonged to them. So as far as I know, their only obligation was probably to help get the crops up and get them out of the field or whatever. But because I was not like that, I’m not sure.

	K:	Right, right.



	C:	But that’s the way I saw it.



	K:	You saw the children who were living on those sharecropping farms, they were coming to school less often than you were, they were—

	C:	Some, during certain periods where there was time, tobacco was always planted before school was out. It was usually harvested during the summer. So maybe they missed some days there to help get it planted or something because the plants had to be pulled, then they had to be planted and stuff like that. But during the time that I came up, it was probably far less than maybe before then.

	K:	Yeah. So percentage of the general community, you knew—



	C:	I really only knew one family that did that. And they kinda lived a couple of miles from us.

	K:	Okay.



	C:	I just remember the children sometime having to go work instead of going to school. Because I have an uncle that lived on the farm for the man that he worked for. But I never remember his children having to miss school to do crops.

	K:	You said you did some work on tobacco fields as a child?





	C:	Yes. During the summer, that was our job. Tobacco every summer. K:	What was that like?

	C:	[Laughter] It was a lot of fun because you had other kids out there, and my first day—I don’t know if you know a lot about working in tobacco—

	K:	Little to nothing. [Laughter]



	C:	[Laughter] You’re probably too young. But I remember my first day of working, I was really small. And they would crop the tobacco from the fields, put it in those slay things, and bring it to the tobacco barn, and you had people there that were stringing it up on the sticks to put it in the barn to cook it. And people handing them the tobacco to put. And I was a “hander,” as we called it. Me and my sister, together, was one hander. So our pay for that day was a dollar and a half.

Because the handers were paid three dollars. So we were considered one together. And I remember, that was terrible. I hated that. Because you could hardly reach the table, and it was, to me, it was hard work, I guess because I was a child. Because you had to keep up, you had to keep the tobacco going and stuff. But as I got older and they had the machines that ran down the rows, and you picked it and put it in a chain and it went up to the person stringing it. And it got to be a lot more fun. But that first day, I remember, it was—oh, I thought I would never make it through the day. [Laughter] It was manual work. It was hard. But then like I said, as I got older and got to do other things like just taking the sticks and handing them to the person that was putting them in the barn and stuff, that was a lot more fun. But at the same time, you had families working. I can remember three or four families working the same time at the same job. You





would go in in the morning and you would take your lunch, put them in—this one guy that we worked for had this big building that you could put all your lunches in there out of the way of the dogs and the ants and stuff. And then at lunchtime, when you went in, you stopped work and went in to eat lunch. It was just like one big cookout.

	K:	Yeah, exactly.



	C:	Everybody got their lunches and sat down and ate, and then when we finished eating, we’d get up and play kickball or stuff ‘till time to go. So it was kind of fun. It was kind of fun.

	K:	Just like a community activity. C:	It was. Kind of.

	K:	But it was work at the same time.



	C:	It was work at the same time. But you got your pay, and you got to go buy your new school clothes for next year, so it was interesting. It was something that I decided when I get grown and I leave here, I’m not coming back, but—[laughter]

	K:	Did your mom and dad do much work with you?



C:  My mom did. Like I said, my dad ran the sawmill. But my mom would come out and work in the tobacco. She was one of the persons that was stringing up and stuff, and also during the summer she would do tobacco thing, too.

K:   Your dad planted some of his own tobacco, you said?



	C:	He did. He did, and it was like fifteen/ twenty rows, so it wasn’t very much, and we could sort of knock that out on a Saturday morning or late one evening or something, and then he would get it in the barn with one of the other farmers who





had a barn, because he didn’t have a tobacco barn. He didn’t plan on getting in on one of their cookings. And get his tobacco cooked out so that he could sell it to them.

K:   Got you.



C:   It’s interesting.



	K:	Definitely, sounds like was.



	C:	It really was. I consider having had a wonderful childhood. I do. We learned a lot. You learned how to save and you learned how to economize and make do with what you’ve got, so it was a learning experience.

	K:	How much of the money that you brought in when you did that—how much of that did you actually get to keep, and how much did your parents—was it more of a bringing in a family income than your own personal income?

	C:	When we were smaller, it was probably like family because my mom bought the clothes and did this and that. But as we got a little older, we got to keep some of it and go pick out stuff that we wanted and kind of do what we wanted. It also helped the family.

	K:	It was a big family, too.



	C:	Yes, it was. It was. Like I said, my dad and my brothers still ran the sawmill, so it wasn’t totally dependent on what we were doing during the summer. It was more or less a way to earn some money and to keep us busy. If you’re busy you can’t get in trouble. [Laughter]





K:  Absolutely. You did that as a child. How much of that—were you doing much or any of that once you got to your high school years? Were you still doing work in the summer?

C:  We were still doing work during the summer during our high school years. That’s when it got to be more fun.

K:   Right.



	C:	Because you can get your own money and go spend it and stuff. I did it through high school and like I said, once I got out of high school—well the first year when I got out of high school, my dad was sick. So my sister and I kind of hung around and took care of him because my mother was still doing like days work, and he died in December of [19]64 right after I graduated. And then I went to work at the school in March, so it was kind of a—and then I never went back to the tobacco fields once I started the job at school because it was a year-long job. That was it. And my brother kept running the sawmill for a few years long, and then it just got so hard to find help until he eventually closed the sawmill down and just stuck to a little farm. And which, he’s still doing a little farming.

	K:	When did the sawmill shut down?



	C:	I don’t remember what year. I don’t remember what year. K:	That’s all right. What were your high school years like?

	C:	What were they like? K:	Yeah.

	C:	Fun. It’s a lot of hard work. Because we had to do our studies and our schoolwork and having to—we left home pretty early in the morning, having to





ride such a ways because it was about eighteen miles. So we had to get our schoolwork done when we got home. We had to get a little work done at home if my mom had to do a washing the next day, and we didn’t have a running water. We had a pump. So we had to pump her washing water. Just doing little chores around the house and stuff. Schoolwork was… it was plentiful. And it was sometimes a little hard, because we had to take the same requirements as the kids have now, you know. So many units of English, science, and whatever. So your units had to count the same. Like I said, I was probably kind of lazy in school because I could do the work without a lot of effort. And I could make As and Bs without a whole lot of effort, so I did a lot of reading on the side and stuff and all.

	K:	What kinds of things did you like to read?



	C:	I read a lot of autobiographies. Some novels, but I like the autobiographies best. K:	Who did you like you read about?

	C:	I did some Clara Barton and the Little Women and… I can’t even remember the books now.

	K:	[Laughter]



	C:	But I still do some reading, and I have a daughter who’s a writer. So she keeps us with plenty of stuff to read. She likes novels and things like that.

	K:	How old are your kids? How many kids do you have, actually?



C:  I have two daughters, and my husband had two sons when we married, so my youngest one is thirty-four, and she’s in school now. When she graduated from high school, she went out to Santa Fe for a little while and then she didn’t see





that it was necessary. So she just kind of dropped everything and went from one dead-end job to dead-end. So now she’s out at Bethune-Cookman. And then my oldest daughter is a counselor at Metcalfe Elementary. And my two stepsons— one drives a truck for PFC and the other one is working down in Orlando at UPS with a journalism degree. [Laughter]

	K:	Sounds about right. [Laughter]



	C:	My oldest daughter has an English degree, but then she decided somewhere along the way that she wanted to be a counselor, so she got into counselor ed here at UF and got that done. Now I think she’s thinking about doing something else. She changes every couple of years. That’s where they are.

	K:	So what were the big things to do when you were in high school that’s not schoolwork? What kind of things did you guys do in high school? Like celebrations, football, homecoming kind of things?

	C:	We had a football team. It was pretty good. We had homecoming every year. We did a parade in downtown Alachua, which, my alumni association still does that. We do it every Thanksgiving weekend. And we had a basketball team. Had a band, which participated in a lot of competitions and stuff. Our chorus was the same. We had student government, student council. Honor society. Our—it’s the same as FFA, but at that time, because of segregation, it was NFA and NHA. We selected our homecoming queens every year. Our student government people would run for office just like political candidates. They had to wage a campaign and did the voting and everything. There was pretty much quite a bit of stuff to do.





	K:	What kinds of things did you get involved in?



	C:	I did student council, honor society. I was a nerd. [Laughter] I did band one year.



I did the NHA, the new homemakers thing, but that was pretty much me. Like I said, I was not athletic at all. So I didn’t get involved in any of that.

	K:	Did you go to things like homecoming and football games and things like that?



	C:	Some. Like I said, we lived way out, so transportation wasn’t always available and they didn’t have these buses running like they do now. But I did get to go to some of them. And our biggest enemy was Lincoln High School here in Gainesville.

	K:	That’s what I’ve heard, yeah. [Laughter] C:	[Laughter] That rivalry still lives on.

	K:	I’m afraid that is alive.



	C:	Yes. It does. It still lives on. Now, before Mebane, unlike Lincoln, Lincoln has had several different schools, but they’ve always kept the name Lincoln. Mebane, before 1957, it was another school which, I don’t know if you’ve ever heard of ACT, that’s the Alachua County Training school, and that’s where Mebane came from. Except that when they built the new school, they named it in honor of the guy who was the principal at ACT, who was from North Carolina, by the way.

	K:	Is that right? Okay. That I didn’t know.



	C:	Yeah. Professor Mebane. As a matter of fact, I think he still has one daughter somewhere up there.

	K:	Well, it’s interesting, because there’s actually a town between where I went to college and where I went to high school where my family lived that I always





traveled back and forth to, and there’s a little town there that’s spelled exactly the same way as Mebane—

	C:	I’ve heard of it.



	K:	But we call it “Mebane,” and I had no—every time I was reading this and I was getting ready to call you, I was like, all right. Don’t say “Mebane.” It’s not “Mebane.” It’s “Mebane.”

	C:	I think he was from Greensboro or something. I wish I had brought that history of him, but he’s from North Carolina.

	K:	Gotcha.



	C:	Yeah, those were pretty much the clubs that we had. We had our cafeteria there, and we had people who actually cooked food. I remember when out at Newberry, when I was in elementary and junior high school, when they built the cafeteria, because before then we had to take our lunch to school every day. And I think I was probably about sixth grade when they built the cafeteria, and I remember when it opened, and lunches were twenty cents. But we still had to carry around our lunch because there was five of us and that would have been a whole dollar.

	K:	Yeah.



	C:	And a dollar was a lot then. K:	Sure.

	C:	But I do remember when they built that cafeteria. And there were days when they would—we had two or three people that were employed in the cafeteria. And they would ask students to come in from time to time when it was time to serve to help in the cafeteria, and you got a free lunch. So that was a plus. [Laughter]





	K:	Absolutely.



	C:	If you could get in there and be the one to help out and get that free hot lunch.



But it was just little things like that that you remember.



	K:	Sure. Absolutely, absolutely. Yeah.



	C:	And I do remember we used to celebrate May Day at school, and I just remember they would dig this hole and have this open pit with a piece of chicken wire across it, and we could roast hot dogs and plait the may pole and parents would come and bring boxes of food. And it was something like a huge picnic once a year at school. They don’t do those things anymore.

	K:	They did when I was in elementary school in South Carolina, they used to do that.

	C:	Oh, they did?



	K:	Mhm.



	C:	But we used to do it when I was in school and they just don’t do that anymore.



Kids most of the time now, they don’t even know what May Day is. And my daughter was really funny. She said, she was telling me the other day, she said, You know, there was this lady that did this survey, and she was saying, you know, kids don’t know what it means when you do this. And I’m like, Okay, that makes sense. Kids don’t wear watches anymore. We were at a funeral the other Saturday and my sister said, What time is it? and I said, I don’t know. My cellphone’s in the car. Nobody roams windows anymore. So they don’t know what that is. I said, but if you would have said, they would have known. We get to talk and sometimes around the house, because there’s eight years between my





girls about things that we did and things that happened. And then we’ll stop and say, Oh, okay. That was before Calandra. Calandra is my youngest child. She doesn’t know anything about that. [Laughter] It’s kind of funny how some things have changed and kids don’t know anything about it.

	K:	It’s true. I’m only twenty-five, but even from when I was younger, I understand all those things you did, but kids now wouldn’t understand those things.

	C:	And the other neat thing about growing up in my house was—and I guess that may have helped us a lot—there was always something to read. My dad always had the Gainesville Sun delivered every day. There was another Black community newspaper that came out of Pittsburgh or somewhere that he bought once a week. My mom would bring magazines home from the houses that she would clean sometimes and newspapers that they were throwing out. So there was always something to read. And a lot of the kids now don’t have anything to read in their homes. And you wonder why they don’t read. They’re not exposed to it. I tutored kids at Mebane last year, and I would say, Go home and read.

Even if it’s nothing but a comic book, anything. Just pick up something and read. And some of them would say, We don’t have anything. But we always had something to read. Newspaper, magazine. And my kids always had something to read. That’s important.

	K:	Yeah, absolutely. I agree. That’s all you do in grad school for history [laughter] is read. You read, you write. That’s about all there is to it.

	C:	But I think that goes a long way if they’re exposed to it. I have a grandson who’s eight, and when I was tutoring those kids at Mebane, and this is sixth through





eighth graders, and I’m sitting here looking at an eighth grader who has on a pair of Nike shoes, and he doesn’t recognize the word Nike on this piece of paper.

And I’m thinking, because this was last year, my second grade student reads well because he’s always been exposed to it, and he was read to before he was born and after he was born and everything. And I’m just thinking, that’s kind of sad.

Unless you’re in there, you don’t really think about that. Here’s a kid that’s made it to eighth grade and he can’t read.

	K:	Right.



	C:	Anyway.



	K:	So you said your dad didn’t go to school very much as a child?



	C:	Well, his joke to us always was, I went to school one day, and the next day the school burned down. [Laughter] I’m not sure how much truth there is in that. But my dad was born in 1894. So he was way back there. And most of the kids during that time probably, at the most, never got past the third-through-sixth grade education. Somebody I was talking to, and they were saying, sometimes the years took a long time. Like maybe they went to school for three months, and then they had to stop and work because crops had to be gathered and stuff and all. And then maybe they went back for another two or three months and then they had to stop. So to get a year in, they may have gone two or three years.

Whatever they got, it must have been good.



	K:	You said he did well with the—



	C:	Oh, yeah. They were both very literate. Yeah.





	K:	Plenty of things to read in the house, doing the math numbers in the lumber company.

	C:	They were both very—.



	K:	Mhm. Okay. So did you ever get a sense that you weren’t getting an equal opportunity being in a segregated school? Did you feel like it was separate and equal, or did you feel like it was separate and unequal?

	C:	There were times when I felt like it was—you knew it was separate, that it was not equal because, like I said, had it been equal, I would not have had to ride past the high school five miles from my house to get to one almost twenty miles away. And having never been in those schools, I can’t say what they had that we didn’t have, but as you pass the White schools and you look at the playgrounds… and they’ve got all this playground equipment, and you look at our school—I think we had a swing set and maybe that was probably it, as far as other stuff. We had balls and stuff, but you had to improvise and make your own, say, if you were doing kickball and you needed bases, we used the trees to make our own field and stuff and all. So I knew that there were a lot of disparities in the two schools, but like I said, having never been in the schools, I can’t say for sure they had this and we had that. I’ve heard some of the people that are older than me talk about the textbooks and the condition of the textbooks. Our textbooks were in fair condition. They had been used, most of them. As I got on up higher in school and in the later years, we may have gotten some new books. But they were in fair condition. Now, some of the books in the library was probably older





than my mother, but it was still something to read. I’m pretty sure they were not equal. But I’m one of those optimistic people.

	K:	You seem to be. Yeah, you have a very good outlook.



	C:	I’m one of those optimistic people. If you talked to somebody else in my class, they may say something totally different.

	K:	Sure. Well, that’s why we wanna talk to as many people as we can to get all the varied experiences.

	C:	But most of the books and stuff were in fair condition. And then sometimes we had to share books because there weren’t quite enough. I remember even when my daughter, who was born in [19]68, was in middle school, they didn’t have enough books at Mebane. And this is after integration. And they would have to, if they needed a text to do some homework, they would have to check it out because there were not enough books to issue the books. I don’t know if it was just that the school was not buying enough or what.

	K:	Right, right.



	C:	But I didn’t see a whole lot of issues with textbooks. And like I said, our teachers meant business. You did your work, or you suffered the consequences. And in my day, they could still paddle.

	K:	Oh, yeah. In my younger years, they still could, too.



	C:	They could still paddle, they could still dish out, you know, medium punishment. I mean, they couldn’t abuse you, but it was something that you didn’t want.

	K:	Right. That’s for sure.





	C:	And our buses were in pretty good condition, too. I think it may have been because the bus drivers’ attitude that they took with them to make sure. They would go out and check them in the morning or if it was cold, go out and get them started so that they would be warm. I was in school in the—I probably started school in the mid-[19]50s and up through the [19]60s. It was pretty fair. Pretty fair time to go then. And even though we were in the South, we didn’t experience a lot of the stuff that someone maybe over in Alabama, Mississippi, or whatever, you know. I was out of school by the time we went through total integration. I remember we had a freedom of choice before I finished school. But I was working at the school, at the central office. I had left the school. Because they did total integration here in February of 1970, which was a bad time because it was right in the middle of the school year. And I don’t know where these people get their thinking, but how do you split up a school in the middle of the school year? And this is what happened. But it went pretty smooth. I think maybe GHS may have had a few problems because of the GHS/ Lincoln thing. And Newberry probably had a few problems because the kids in Archer were used to having their own school, and now they were going to have to go to Newberry. But overall, I think it went pretty smooth around here.

	K:	That was after your time, right? That was after you had graduated.



	C:	Right. That was after I had graduated. Actually, all of my sisters and brothers had graduated by that time, because the last one got out at [19]67.

	K:	Okay.



	C:	But overall, I don’t think we had any major events.





	K:	How conscious was the general community around here about larger, more national trends and like the Civil Rights Movement and activism that was going on in other parts?

	C:	Very conscious, very conscious. We had some sit-ins here, because I remember the thing down at Woolworth with Joel Buchanan and those and the sit-ins, and a few marches here and there. But it was not on the scale of some of the other places. But there was consciousness. I think we can credit the way that it went to a lot of the people around here that worked with Civil Rights and worked together, Black and White, to try and get it to smooth out and do it as smoothly as possible.

	K:	Absolutely, yeah.



	C:	But there were some mad people. There were some protests. K:	It’s kind of hard for there not to be in those situations.

	C:	Mhm, mhm. But I remember the White-only. Black entrance, White entrance in the doctor’s offices and the different places around here. I remember once going to the doctor’s office up in High Springs with my mother and you’d come in the front door and there was a waiting room, and then there was a little room right behind there that the Black people—or it was colored at that time—had to go in and sit. The water faucets and—I remember all this stuff. My mother was the type of person that if they don’t want you to have it, then don’t. So a lot of times, she would not even allow us to go to the places that had those things because of the person that she was. I remember all of those things, seeing all those things.

	K:	What kind of person was she?





	C:	My mother was very humble. She was a very humble person. If she had met you today, she would have said Mr. Kent or “Yes, sir” or “No, sir.” She was a very humble person. Color really didn’t matter as far as being humble because she made us say “Yes, ma’am” and “No, ma’am” to anybody that she considered an adult. So it wasn’t just a Black-White thing. She was just an humble person that tried to get along with everybody.

	K:	So she didn’t want you guys going to places that had those restrictions, or she just wanted you to make sure you followed the rules?

	C:	Make sure we followed the rules, mhm, and not get into trouble. K:	Was your father similar?

	C:	My dad was really outspoken. [Laughter] K:	Was he?

	C:	Yeah, he was a really outspoken person. I mean, it didn’t really—color or whatever didn’t really matter to him. He’d just say what was on his mind.

	K:	Right.



	C:	But he never had a problem. I think he felt that he was close enough to the people in the community that he was comfortable with that. Having grown up with a lot of them. Because he grew up out in Jonesville. His family… his mother was bought by the Dudleys as a slave with her mother from—is it North or South Carolina? Anyway, we’ve got the bill of sales. My daughter got a copy of it from out at Dudley Farm. So that’s kind of where he grew up, as a part of that family. It was pretty much… he was himself.





	K:	Owning his own business, you know. I could see how he would be an independent, say-what-he-thinks kind of guy. Sure. What kinds of places did you guys hang out in high school? Like, I mean, I know you said the transportation, it was what made it an issue, so were you mostly at home if you weren’t at school?

	C:	We were. But the kids did have hang-outs, like they had little teen places where kids hung out in High Springs and Alachua, but I was never a part of that. There was a lady that owned a little shop right across the street from the school. She sold cookies and candies and stuff, and they used to hang around there. And I think there was a same type of a shop in Alachua and maybe in Newberry, but like I said, if I wasn’t at home or at the sawmill or some relative’s—my dad had a sister that lived right down the street from the sawmill and some cousins and stuff. That’s basically where we were.

	K:	I’m not sure about the history of all of this, but what exactly happened with Mebane? Did it shut down in the early 1970s? They closed the school or they didn’t close the school?

	C:	No, they didn’t close it. They demoted it to a middle school. Lincoln was closed, Mebane did not closed. They just changed it to a middle school. The high school kids were sent to Santa Fe, or they lived out in the Monteocha area or whatever. They went to Buchholz, I believe, or GHS. But it was never closed. The grade levels were just changed. And the kids from Newberry went to Newberry High School instead of Mebane.

	K:	Okay. I’m interested in the fact that you said that you drove by the White high schools in order to go to high school yourself, and that was really the only time





you ever felt like things were unequal. You know you couldn’t go to school nearby, you passed by it, you saw the better playground equipment. How did that make you feel, essentially, is the question I’m trying to ask. Did it affect you that much that you were driving past the high school, or? I mean, I assume you would want to go to school closer to where you live so you could—

	C:	No, I’m not sure I would have wanted to. K:	Really?

	C:	Because all of my friends were there. It really didn’t affect me that much as far as a sense of where I was going or what I was doing. And I’m not really sure if I would have changed it. Because I think, in my thinking, the integration thing was sort of misread. In my thinking, what we were asking for—and when I say ‘we,’ I mean Black people—were asking for was that our schools be equal, not necessarily to go to the White school, but that our schools be brought up to the same par as the White school. But I was happy with all my friends and stuff. I mean, I had friends that went to Newberry High School. Kids that I knew from around town, or from working in tobacco. Because there were White kids that were out there working with us, too. Or kids whose dad had farms that my dad knew that we would visit from time to time. But like I said, my experience was probably a little different than a lot of kids’. Because we always mingled with White people. So I always had the experience of being around them or whatever. My experience was probably a little different from a lot of kids’.

	K:	Sure. I mean, everybody’s experiences is gonna be different.





	C:	Yeah. And mine was probably a little different. Because, like I said, we grew up with White kids. There were White families that lived out there where we lived, and we mingled. We didn’t go to church together or whatever, but we mingled. And we got along. We respected each other.

	K:	Well, that’s good. Was there a sense of separation between you and those—I mean, there’s certain situations where you can hang out and mingle with them, and there’s certain situations where things are clearly separated.

	C:	Well, you knew the things you could do and the things that you couldn’t do. So I guess I never really gave it a whole lot of thought. I know that I was not going to go to their house and sit down at the dinner table with them. I mean, they would come out and play, or we’d play in the backyard or whatever. But when it came time for dinner or whatever, you knew that that was not your call. It was accepted. You knew it wasn’t right, maybe. But it was accepted. Because that’s what the standards were. I remember going to work with my mother when she would go to clean house. And sometimes the husband of the house would come and pick us up, or sometimes when we got old enough, we would drive her. And I can remember sometimes getting out of the car, going in the back, putting her purse down and everything and going in the back door and picking up the broom, and sometimes she would say, Go and sweep the front porch off. Go through the house, sweep off the front porch and everything, and come back in. And then when you left, you left by the back door again. And I’m thinking, This doesn’t make a whole lot of sense. [Laughter] I’ve already been all over the house. But it was just that was it. If they fixed lunch, we sat back there in the back and ate our





lunch or whatever. That was just it. So you didn’t think a whole lot about it. That was the way it was. So, so be it. I think about it sometimes now and I just laugh. I’ve been all through your house, I’ve cleaned your kitchen, cleaned your bathroom, cleaned this and cleaned that. Swept off the front porch. I don’t know. I guess that was the way it was supposed to be. You enter by the back door, you leave by the back door. Anyway. Like I said, though, my life was probably different from a lot of kids because of my dad and his standing in the community.

	K:	Let’s see. Is there anything else you wanted to discuss?



	C:	I was just trying to think of what we had not covered. Is there anything else you wanted to know about the school?

	K:	Is there anything else you have to tell me about the school? C:	I’m trying to think.

	K:	[Laughter]



	C:	We’ve talked about so much stuff.



	K:	We really have. We’ve gone through a lot. I’ve enjoyed this.



	C:	I’ve probably said more than I should have, but anyway. I can’t think of anything else. Like I said, though. I enjoyed my school years. I enjoyed the friends that we had and everything. And like I said, I had friends at school and friends in the community. Even now today, I see some of the White kids or—a lot of the older people have died—you know, that I grew up with, and stop and talk to them and stuff, I don’t do a whole lot of visiting in Newberry. I go through there sometimes, but still run into some of them. And we talk and stuff and all.





	K:	One other—this is a broader issue, I guess—but how important were politics in your community growing up? Or once you got to the point where you were of voting age? How important was voting and campaigning for people and whatnot in the community?

	C:	I didn’t do a lot of campaigning, but voting was very important in my house. I’ve worked the voter polls, I’ve done the canvassing, the absentee ballots and all of that. But I got that chance to do all of that because one of the ladies that my mother cleaned house for was the supervisor of elections, Alma Barthe [1:06:40]. You’ve probably heard that name around. She was supervisor of elections for years. And the minute we turned voting age, she made sure that we were registered, especially when she was running for office. It was very conscious in our house. We had newspapers and all this stuff, so we were always aware of what was going on, even long before TV or whatever. And even after I got married, and my oldest daughter will tell you today, she said, Six o’clock was sacred in our house. Because we only had one TV, so you had to sit and watch the news. It’s just something that I grew up with and it just continued. And even with CNN, I still watch the six o’clock news. But I didn’t do a lot of campaigning and I still don’t. My daughter’s worked in the presidential election as far as getting people registered and all that stuff. But I’m not—that’s not me [laughter]. I’m not into all that. I read up on the calendar each cycle and vote. But I don’t get deep into all the C-SPAN and CNN stuff. I watch it to a certain point.

It’s that awareness. We’re very aware of what’s…





K:  Do you have any points of comparison between your experiences with politics and voting and, say, your parents or… what they went through as opposed to what you go through? Do you have any points of reference from—

	C:	I don’t ever remember my dad voting. My mother did. And I think maybe she probably registered. Well, we didn’t get the right to vote until, what was it? [19]67? [19]66 or [19]67?

	K:	I think the Voting Rights Act was in [19]64 or [19]65.



	C:	See, so we would’ve—my mother would’ve probably registered maybe just a little before me. So she would have started voting about the same—I know my dad didn’t vote, because my dad died in [19]64. From that point on, we did vote. And she never missed a presidential election, especially—my mother voted most, probably, in most of the elections that were held, city and everything. She would have registered as soon as she was able to.

	K:	Was there a sense that you voted or you read up on candidates or you did anything political because it was what you were supposed to do, or was there a sense of being able to change things through elections?

	C:	Hopefully to be able to change things. Because there were so many people saying, I don’t need to vote. My vote doesn’t count. And I never saw it that way. I always felt like my vote counted regardless. I was always of the opinion that if you don’t vote, then you can’t fuss about what goes on. So that was my reason for voting. Hey, these people worked hard to get this right for us. And I wish they would understand that now. If we don’t get out and vote, then you can’t argue about what’s going on.





K:  Yeah. A lot of people, unfortunately, have very short memories when it comes to those kinds of things. I’m one to talk, I’m in grad school for history. [Laughter] So clearly I think that’s important.

	C:	No, I think that people basically vote because they want to see change. The people that I know and the people that I talk to, anyway. Other than the ones that say, [mumbling] I’m not gonna go out and vote because my vote don’t count. But I don’t see it that way.

	K:	Right. Okay. All right, well I think I’ll wrap up with what your Thanksgiving plans are, what Thanksgiving is like around your house.

	C:	[Laughter] Thanksgiving around my house is getting up, cooking and eating.



	Watching football. K:	Sounds about right.

	C:	I usually do my own Thanksgiving dinner at home. Sometimes we do dinners with the family, with the sisters and brothers and stuff. But before my mother passed away, we would always—once I got grown, I would cook and take something to her house. We would always go and eat something at her house because she loved to cook, too. But now I do my Thanksgiving dinner. I get up Thursday morning and do the most of it. I don’t like to cook it the day ahead of time. I want my stuff fresh.

	K:	Same here. [Laughter]



	C:	[Laughter] We usually eat dinner probably around 1 or 1:30. But that’s basically it.

	K:	The whole family come back?





	C:	Well, my daughters are usually there. The sons, they didn’t grow up in my house, so they would always go with their mother. Since she passed away, they do it among themselves with the other sisters and brothers in the family because they’ve got—there are about eight of them.

	K:	Do you see any of your siblings for Thanksgiving?



	C:	Sometimes. Sometimes. My oldest sister was wanting to know what I was doing for Thanksgiving and I said, I think I kind of wanna just stay home. So I may go run over and visit her sometime during the day. But that’s usually my family.

	K:	It’s not the one in Nevada though? You’re not gonna go stop by and visit? C:	No, I don’t think I’m going to stop in on her. [Laughter]

	K:	[Laughter] That’d be a little difficult.



	C:	Yeah, that’d be a little hard. No, I’m not gonna stop in on her. She was here in June.

	K:	How often do you get to see her?



	C:	About once a year. Because I haven’t been out there since [19]95. So they usually come down in June. Because his mother is here, too. They’re both from here.

	K:	Why Nevada? Did you say he was in the military?



	C:	Well, he was in the Army. And they were in Barstow at Fort Irwin, California.



When he retired, so they just kind of moved across state line, bought a house in the Las Vegas area, in Henderson.

	K:	Las Vegas area. How do they like that?



	C:	Henderson is about seven miles out of Las Vegas.





	K:	How do they like living there?



	C:	So-so. She said she liked New Jersey better. She would rather be on the East Coast. But they’ve been out there for a while now.

	K:	Can’t imagine that living outside of Las Vegas is all that fun.



	C:	Well, Henderson is east of Las Vegas. It’s between Las Vegas and the Hoover Dam.

	K:	Okay.



	C:	And she got a chance to go across that new bridge that they just built at the Hoover Dam a couple of weeks ago. She went over to Scottsdale for the weekend. But she’s gotten used to it. I don’t think she’s all that crazy about it, but she worked at the VA for a long time. And now she’s at another hospital over there. It takes her about an hour to get to work to drive from where she lives all the way across Las Vegas. Forty-five minutes to an hour, I think, to get there.

She’s gotten used to it. My brother was out there for two years, the one that retired from the army. He liked the Texas area, and he lived in Phoenix for a while. He was in Las Vegas for a couple of years, and then he came down to Middleburg, which is the closest he’s ever been home since he left school in [19]63. But he wants to get back out there, too. So I don’t know why.

	K:	I couldn’t tell you why.



	C:	It looked like they just dropped some little cities in between the mountains. K:	Yeah, exactly. You said your brother was in the service, right? He was in the

Army?



	C:	Army.





	K:	When?



	C:	He joined the ROTC when he was school at FAM in [19]65 or [19]66. When he graduated second lieutenant he went into officer school at Fort Bliss in El Paso. He spent about twenty-six years in there. Then he retired full colonel up at Fort Lee, Virginia. And since then he’s just kind of moved around. He’s in education. So he has a doctorate in education and a master’s in math.

	K:	Interesting. [Laughter]



	C:	[Laughter] So he’s kind of moved around from Baltimore to Las Vegas to Phoenix. Anyway, I told him he’s never going to retire, but he’s done some stuff over in Jacksonville.

	K:	Did he end up overseas at any point?



	C:	Yes, he went to Vietnam, he went to Germany, he went to Korea, he went to—oh he went several places while he was in, mhm.

	K:	Does he talk much about going up—was he fighting in Vietnam, I assume, if it was in the [19]60s?

	C:	He was not a foot soldier, but he was close to conflict a couple of times in some dangerous areas. But he doesn’t say a whole lot about it.

	K:	Right, right. It’s usually a difficult thing to make people talk about.



	C:	Yeah. Now, my brother-in-law is a different story because he was—the one that’s in Nevada—because he was shot a couple of times. He was a foot soldier. He doesn’t talk a lot about it. But he’s a wounded veteran. But he came back and finished out probably twenty-something, close to thirty years. But they’re doing good.





	K:	Good. All right, well, is there anything else you wanted to add to it? Have we covered everything we could cover?

	C:	I think we probably covered my life story.



	K:	That’s pretty good. That was good. Well, thank you. I appreciate you talking to me.

	C:	Okay, I enjoyed it. I wasn’t sure of what to expect. [End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Holland Hall, June 8, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019