AAHP 300; Harris, Welch, and Welch; Page 100





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 300 Mathis Harris, Arago Welch, and Joseph W. Welch African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Justin Dunnavant and Ryan Morini on April 16, 2013 5 hours, 50 minutes | 225 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 300

Interviewee: Matthis Harris, Arago Welch, and Joseph W. Welch Interviewer: Justin Dunnavant and Ryan Morini

Date: April 16, 2013



M:   —What is it, the 16th of April?



D:  Yeah, April 16th. We are here with Justin Dunnavant, Ryan Morini, Mr. Matthis Harris, Mr. [pause] Welch—

AW: Arago Leroy Welch. D: Arago Leroy Welch. JW:  Joseph Welch.

D:   And Joseph Welch.



	M:	How do you spell Arago? AW:	A-R-A-G-O.

	M:	A-R-A-G-O. Okay.



	H:	It’s a misspelling of what’s on the starch box. Argo? M:	Oh, okay.

H:   No, no! [Laughter]



	H:	You know where your name came from, though? AW:	I heard it’s from French.

H:   Oh, okay.



	M:	Do you have any French background?



	AW:	Only thing I know, they claim that the family originated from the Bahamas.



	Bahamas, and that’s all. And Aunt Rowena’s name comes from— JW:	Your great-grandfather was from there.

	AW:	Huh?



	JW:	Your great-grandfather was from Haiti.





	AW:	Oh, okay.



	H:	Uh-oh, you got Haitian blood in you, boy? You dangerous! [Laughter] You are



dangerous!



	D:	Do you know his name? Do you know his great-grandfather’s name? JW:	Yeah—. Now let me think, I just have to think about it.

	AW:	But see, I had a lady told me about my name. And also I’ve heard about my grandmother. And she said, “Well, that right there says enough that I’m calling it French.” Because back in the day, the French government had a lot to do with the owitch out in that area.

	H:	Now Haiti, this gentleman here, he’s Haitian background, I think. D:	Oh, no.

	H:	Not you?



	D:	I went to Jamaica, but—



	H:	Oh, I thought you, whatyoucallit—but anyway, the Caribbean, part of it was British, and then part of it was French. And—

	D:	Part of it was Dutch.



	H:	Part of it was Dutch, too. What is it, the—the one that— D:	Saint Kitts?

	H:	Yeah, Saint Kitts.



	D:	Nevis.



	H:	Yeah. But it may have been somebody else down there, too. Other than what we talking about.

	D:	Portuguese.





	H:	Yeah, see that?



	AW:	Yeah. I know about the Portuguese, yeah.



	H:	So it wasn’t just one. What’s the one that everybody goes to now? The big tourist island that’s so expensive?

	D:	Oh, Barbados?



	H:	No, the one out in the Atlantic. D:	Oh, Bermuda.

	H:	Bermuda. Yeah. Bermuda was British. And still is. Like, the Queen and all that crowd go there.

	AW:	I know.



	H:	Now Barbados is a interesting one. That’s where my wife’s family is from. And I don’t know if I ever told you this, but my wife’s father lived in Harlem. But he was White. He died—we got the birth certificates and stuff. But he was married to a Black woman. And that was not uncommon down there.

	JW:	Your grandfather, he was Doc Willis. D-O-C, Doc Willis. W-I-L-L-I-S. And your grandmother’s maiden name was Willis.

	AW:	Yeah. I know that. Doc Willis, okay.



	H:	Now, you got to research the two of them. We can start looking that up. JW:	He’s already doing that! [Laughter]

	H:	No, but you got to know their names when you start looking for them, yeah. J, you said that’s D-O-C?

	JW:	Yeah.



	H:	W-I-L-L-I-S?





	JW:	Yeah.



	H:	Now that Doc part is— AW:	That’d be French.

	H:	But that Willis is more like English, isn’t it? That “Willis” part is more like English. The “Doc”—Papa Duvalier, I think he was called “Papa Doc.” So that’s French, that part, I think. Or he was—

	JW:	Well, he originally from the Bahamas.



	H:	Oh, I see what you’re saying. Okay. Okay. M:	Yeah. So, you guys can see from—

	H:	J, it’s bigger up there, you could see it better up there. Might have to turn off that light there, though.

	M:	Okay. Get these.



	H:	Can you see it okay, J? JW:	Yeah, I see a lot of these.

	M:	Yeah. It’s nice that he listed all the—in his thesis, he listed the names of all the people he talked to—

	JW:	“D.E White, pastor of Friendship.” Mmhm. London, yeah, I knew him too. H:	Which London is that? That’s not the one that—in our family—

	JW:	In addition to being a minister, he was the barber. He had a barbershop downtown on Union Street in Gainesville. It was one of the only two Black businesses owned downtown.

	H:	What was the other one, a shoe repair place? JW:	A restaurant. Bob Lightfoot’s.





	M:	Who owned that restaurant? H:	Bob Lightfoot.

	M:	Barb Lightfoot.



	H:	Yeah, B-O-B, Bob. One of the two Black businesses out there. The other one was a barber shop.

	D:	Do you know what the name of the restaurant was? H:	J, do you remember the name of the restaurant?

	JW:	Mmm… As far as I can recall, it was Lightfoot’s Restaurant. D:	Ah, okay. Do you know what they served?

	AW:	Soul food. You name it, they would sell it. Ox tail, pig feets… And that was right next to that fish market, wasn’t it?

	JW:	The restaurant? AW:	Yeah.

	JW:	No, it was next to a furniture store. I can’t recall the name of that furniture store.



Furniture store was right on the corner, and then the restaurant next door.



	H:	So is Union Street the one where, like, the 2nd St. now or something? Where that



Cabo?



	JW:	Union Street now is, a church on 2nd or 3rd. AW:	That 3rd.

	H:	3rd.



	JW:	Yeah, 3rd Avenue. Yeah. That’s arounds where the In-and-Out used to be at. H:	Yeah. Yeah, I know.

	JW:	Into there.





	H:	Yeah, I know what you talking about.



	AW:	Matter of fact that was the street where most of the time, most Black people would meet on the weekend, right there where In-and-Out used to be at. Used to be a feed and seed place there. And this is where they, the farmers-

	H:	Well, the furniture store, I thought, was on the corner there. Because Jim Dandy Bakery laid on and it was—

	JW:	Howze! That was Howze Furniture downtown. AW:	Okay, yeah.

	H:	H-O-W-E-S?



	JW:	H-O-W-Z-E.



	H:	H-O-W-Z-E?



	JW:	Okay, now, it was Jim Dandy Bakery was right on the corner there— H:	Right. On the corner was that seed and feed store, I thought.

	AW:	No, it was right there where In-and-Out. It was a big place, there, that I guess is the Gay place there. That was part of it, too. This was a big thing, there. And this is where you found most of the Blacks would come into town, and they’d conjugate together, and do whatever they have to do.

	H:	Did they buy the Page by that place from those people? AW:	Yeah.

	H:	So it’s the same building, then.



	AW:	No. It was so different only what Page had. Where Fay’s had their restaurant, there.

	H:	That came in later years.





AW:  On Union street there, too, as you go toward the courthouse, is—all along there. H:   What’s the man name? Mr. Page was a cab driver, J.

JW:  Oh! Page. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, that’s what the Page bought, yes. That’s Page. H:  Was that the same place? Did they bought it from those people—acquired it? JW:  Yeah. Yeah, right.

H:  So, that area that we’re talking about, is the area—this is 3rd Avenue? JW:  Mmhm.

	H:	So that’d be South—east Third Avenue? Southwest 3rd Avenue. AW:	Yeah, Southwest. Mmhm.

	H:	And that was the area where Black people congregated. Now—let me just tell them one thing about the area. Because, what happened was, a large number of the Black people lived in the rural areas. So they would come in on Saturdays, primarily, and they would congregate around that area we talking about. So it was a restaurant there, and where was the—?

	AW:	Seed and feed place—



	H:	Yeah, I know about that. But where was the, whattayacallit, the barbershop, J? JW:	Uh… Barbershop. Leonard’s Barbershop?

	H:	Mmhm.



	AW:	It was right in there. That was around the corner there, behind where Sears used to be at, wasn’t it?

	H:	On a side street. AW:	Yeah. Mmhm.

	JW:	Mm-mm. Mm-mm, no.





	AW:	Okay, it wasn’t off of—



	JW:	Now, I’m trying to think, Arago. Because that bus go as far as I—I believe it was near this restaurant we talking about. About right there. Yeah.

	M:	Try to pull up a map up there, if that helps? So, is this in Porter’s? H:	No, no, this is right downtown.

	M:	Okay, downtown.



	H:	Yeah. Yeah, you know where—when you get downtown, where the D.A’s office is?

	M:	Yeah, yeah.



	H:	Across the street. And then go to 3rd Street—which actually, there’s no 2nd there, I think. I think it just jumps to 3rd there. And there’s a place on the right-hand side that’s a club or something. There’s one on the left-hand side if you’re coming down that little narrow street, there? And there’s an In-and-Out Grill or something down there.

	M:	Is this it up there, on the—



	H:	Get University Avenue, and then we can go from there. M:	That’s University right there at the top in the yellow.

	H:	Okay.



	M:	Yeah, so Main on the right.



	H:	You see where it say Gainesville City Parking there? M:	Yeah.

	H:	We talking about the other side of the street there. The same area, but the other side of the street. Yeah, those things on the other side of the street.





	M:	Okay.



	H:	Now, now, let’s see—what you talking about—do what you did before? D:	Up here?

	H:	Not there, you too far down. D:	Oh, okay.

	H:	Over there. You see where the parking— D:	Yeah, parking thing is? Yeah.

	H:	Yeah, that’s—the buildings that were there, they were torn down. I don’t remember what was there. But what we’re talking about is this right here.

	D:	This area?



	H:	This, yeah, right along here. If this is the other side of the street, right along there is what we talking about.

	D:	Ah.



	M:	Okay. So… Okay, so kind of west of where Volta is now, and on the—



	JW:	One of the amazing things, they used to have horse troughs around the courthouse square. And people come into town on Saturday, in buggies and whatnot, there was a place where they could tend their horses, and feed them, and water them, all around the courthouse square.

	AW:	See, Black peoples didn’t have cars then.



	H:	Okay, now, what is this right here where you at now? D:	This is Southwest 3rd St.

	H:	That 3rd?



	D:	Yeah.





	M:	This is the street. Was it paved back then? AW:	Yeah. This is on a—

	H:	You got to go to the dead end on that street, though. This is not the right part of that street. You got to go to the dead end.

	AW:	Where you’re talking about, the street is on the other side of this building here. D:	On the other side of this building?

	JW:	Oh yeah, okay, I recognize it.



	AW:	Yeah. That’s where the bakery had been, on that corner there. You know, next was Wise Drug Store.

	D:	Oh yeah, okay.



	M:	That’s close as we can get, I guess.



	AW:	Okay, this is the back of the parking lot there, behind— D:	So behind this street.

	AW:	—in the area behind Florida Theater there. Now you got to go to the other side.



There’s a street there on the other side. Um…



	H:	Yeah, if you coming from the courthouse, and you driving, you come to a dead end. So you got to go either right or left. But I think you could only go right. I think it’s—

	AW:	Right, yeah.



	M:	Okay, so closed— AW:	A one-way.

	H:	Yeah, I think it’s a one—so, the things we’re talking about, all of them on the right-hand side of that street, before you make that right.





	AW:	All right, there it is.



	H:	It’s going to be behind this.



	AW:	That’s University Avenue there. Florida Theatre there. Okay, if you go further to your left, you should come to a street there.

	JW:	There’s Silbman’s Store. AW:	Yeah.

	JW:	That’s on Pleasant.



	AW:	Yeah, go to that traffic light there. That street. Then come across here. Okay, they have a police of boot right there. Now, that’s the street we’re talking there. That’s the one-way street that comes out to Main Street. I mean, University.

	M:	Okay. So that’s the one Volta’s on, and the—what’s that, the bar with the cow colors on the front? Eight Seconds. That’s it.

	D:	Ah, okay.



	M:	Club. Bar, club, whatever. So this was—so this was kind of the Black downtown, then?

	AW:	No—



	H:	Not really, it was—



	AW:	—it was just where the Blacks, mostly they’d hang out at.



	H:	Like, here’s what I can tell you about that. They were coming in, they would buy, like—because, see, a lot of Black people involved in the agriculture. So they would come in there and buy their seed and feed and stuff, for the animals. But then they would do shopping and stuff. So when they would come in, it was a





opportunity to meet other Black people that were involved either in agriculture, or to meet their friends and things. So people met there.

	AW:	Yeah. Right, yeah.



	H:	People met and congregated there, and talked. And they would be sitting out. Like, somebody was telling you about the horse and buggies and stuff? Back in the day, they would come in with their buckboards and things like that. I vaguely remember seeing some of that stuff down there, myself. Because they didn’t always have cars and things. And the restaurant and that stuff is where people would hang out there.

	AW:	Pleasant Street. That runs right in front of old Friendship Church. That street there.

	H:	But if you going down there, you just seeing loads of Black people. Anybody you hadn’t seen that you wanted to run into them or something, you know. And they would make a day of it. They would come in early in the morning, and—Sears was the place where—I don’t know if you guys… You guys probably too young for this, here. But Sears, in the old days, in these small towns, it was not so much a store as it was a catalog operation. You would go in there, and they would have the big catalog, and you would be on one side, and they’d be on the other side, and you’d turn to a certain page, and you’d say, “Okay, I want to order this, this, this, this,” and they would get the size and everything. And so that’s what you would do. And the Sears—I don’t think the Sears was much bigger than this doggone office here, this part up here on this floor, here. You know? This part





here. And they had a few items there, like bicycles and things. But it wasn’t a big operation. Go ahead, J.

	JW:	Now, you talking about on Main Street, right? AW:	Yeah.

	H:	Right, right.



	JW:	Because that’s where it was originally, right? All the way to Garden Street. H:	Right.

	JW:	Right.



	H:	Garden Street is what was, what? JW:	It’s behind Sears.

	H:	Yeah, I know. But I’m trying to think what the name of it is now. Do you know what it is, Arago? 1st Street?

	AW:	1st Avenue—



	H:	No, that’s not it. Not “avenue,” it’s got to be a “street.” AW:	1st Street, then.

	H:	Yeah, so that was the name of it. Garden Street and 1st Street is the same street.



And that street was called Union Street, J?



	JW:	Yeah.



	H:	Yeah. Union was the one that’s 3rd Avenue.



	M:	And so that was kind of Saturday, was just everybody congregated out there kind of—?

	JW:	Mmhm.





	H:	Yeah. People be down there other days, but that was the primary day. Because people were working all the rest of the time, and they didn’t have time to come down there. That was the day where you would bring your family in—and you’d have people to meet you there, also. Like, maybe somebody you needed to see. Maybe you would change some greens and some eggs for something. One guy might have some syrup or something. So they’d do a little commerce there, but they would also purchase things there, too. You know?

	M:	Did people—were people cooking food? Were there vendors or anything?



	H:	No, there was a restaurant there. That’s what we talking about, was the restaurant.

	M:	So that was the spot, was the restaurant.



	H:	Yeah, see, all those people had their own abilities to cook in their homes and stuff, so it wasn’t so much about coming to eat as it was to meet and to buy things that they needed for they farm. And they would come in there. But they wouldn’t just stay there. They would go into the community and visit with other Black people that were family, or friends, or acquaintances. They would do a lot of business in the White stores and things. That was a big part of it, right there— that feed and seed thing did a big business with those people. Those people made they own clothes and stuff. This is something you may not know about. Did you know that flour and stuff came in beautiful bags?

	AW:	Croker bags.



	H:	Not the croker’s bags, I’m not talking about that. AW:	It came in crow’s bags, now.





	H:	I’m talking these small bags. It would come in bags that were beautiful on the outside. And the women would take those bags, and—

	JW:	Bleach.



	H:	Bleach them—either use what was on there, the design that was on there— they’d get a bunch of those, and that’s what they made their dresses from, very often. I vaguely remember. I don’t remember it that well. But a lot of Black people didn’t have the money to go to a place like Sears and buy stuff like that, so they had to make do with what they had. So, that’s what they made clothes out of.

Those bags that flour or whatever came in. And the things were beautiful that they made from it. Also the quilts. They would use some of that stuff to make quilts with, also. And croker’s bags were very common, you know, for carrying stuff. Maybe they would bring in a side of beef, or a side of pork or something from the farm. They would use those croker’s bags, which is what he was talking about, you know?

	JW:	[inaudible 18:33]? [Laughter]



	H:	Yeah, see? That’s what I was talking about. Yeah, I remember that with my own eyes.

	M:	Yeah, people wear shirts that look like that today.



	H:	That was the real McCoy. That was real McCoy, that wasn’t stamped on there! [Laughter] You had to cut that the right way to get that.

	D:	So did most people know how to do this themselves, or was there like a central—



	H:	No, not most people didn’t know how to do that. There were people that specialized in sewing. Like, for instance, Reverend Walker’s wife. She was a





seamstress. But there was some women that were really good. Other women, they could do something, but there were people in the community that specialized in different skills like that, you know? Like, for instance, I was talking about syrup. Some people grew sugar cane, and pressed it into whatdoyoucallit, and they had these—J, you know what I’m talking about it, I don’t even know what it is.

	JW:	They had these big vats.



	H:	Yeah, where they would actually take it, and reduce it—they would cook it. And these were like these big old steel pipes that you see every now and then. They call them boiling pots. And they would cook it down with those pots. And they would use wood to do that. And they had things to stir it with and stuff like that. And other people were pretty good at, say, pig farming and stuff like that.

Somebody else was good at whatdoyoucallit. So, there’s a certain amount of trade that went on. But people bought the things that they need because they would earn enough money from their produce and stuff in order to whatdoyoucallit, to—and then they had jobs. They would work for people, other farmers, White farmers, and they would work in homes and things. So they had a little money. But the money was used for things that they—if they could make it, they wouldn’t be buying it. That’s the way that worked.

	JW:	I can recall the time when the average salary for a domestic maid was two dollars fifty cent a week.

	H:	Yeah.





	JW:	And that was common. And I don’t know if you recall the Women’s Club—it used to be the Twentieth Century Club.

	H:	I remember that.



	JW:	And there, they would go around—new people move into Gainesville, and to acquaint them with the idiosyncrasies of the community.

	H:	Hold it for a minute, J, because I want to tell them what we talking about, because I don’t think they know. Do y’all know what a women’s club is? He’s talking about, if you go down University Avenue, and you headed out toward the mall, on the left-hand side, place called the Women’s Club.

	D:	It’s still there today?



	H:	No, no, that’s the new building. But the predecessor of it was called the Twentieth Century Club, what he’s telling you about. That was downtown. And you have to listen to the intricacies of what he’s talking about, because he’s making a very important point. Because he’s told me about this before, so I remember it. But what happened is that that club was a women’s club. And it introduced the newcomers to the intricacies of Gainesville, namely segregation. And how you do stuff, okay? And that’s what he’s trying to tell you, but you didn’t—

	D:	Black women’s club. H:	No!

	AW:	Man that club then was right behind which is J.C. Penney’s. I think it’s a thrift shop there now. That’s where it originally from, the Women Club.





	H:	What we talking about is, like, if you’re downtown on the courthouse square there? That building on the right—what is that, 2nd Street? 3rd Street there? That’d be 2nd Street. No, 1st Street. That’s 1st Street. Where J.C. Penney’s was, right?

	AW:	Um…



	H:	That’s 1st.



	AW:	No, no, no, I’m sorry, not—it’s Pleasant Street. Yeah. The—what’s the name of the big store right there on the corner there? It’s a club in there.

	JW:	Joe Silverman?



	AW:	Silverman, yeah, right there on the corner. Silverman was inside, but on the corner there was a big store there.

	JW:	No, no, Silverman was right on the corner of University Avenue and Pleasant Street. And then on this side, the left side, was the White Presbyterian church.

	H:	I got a general idea where you’re talking about. AW:	Yeah, well, right behind there in—

	JW:	Penney’s was directly across the street in front of Joe Silverman.



	M:	We’ve got the map up there, if that helps at all. So that’s Pleasant Street right there, 2nd Street.

	JW:	Up here Pleasant?



	M:	So you got University in the yellow, and then 1st Avenue right above it.



	H:	Was Penney’s always in the same location, because I know where Penney’s was. There was a church there next to that—





	AW:	J.C. Penney moved down there off from Depot. Over there on 6th Street and University. That used to be J.C. Penney in there.

	H:	But then they went downtown? AW:	No, they were downtown first—

	H:	Oh, and then, that’s late, you talking later years. AW:	Down there later.

	H:	Talking later years, yeah. I didn’t even know they did that. J.C. Penney was one of the larger, nicer stores in Gainesville before the mall came in. It was really a large store.

	JW:	And also Wilson’s. AW:	That’s, that—

	H:	Oh, wait a minute, that’s what I’m mixing up, then!



	JW:	Wilson was one of the most exclusive stores in Gainesville. And that was on the corner of University Avenue and what was—

	AW:	First.



	H:	It’s First.



	JW:	No—it’s First, right.



	H:	It’s First. So I’m getting Wilson’s mixed up with Penney’s. Where was Penney’s?



Over next to Sears?



	AW:	No. Uh… JW:	No, unh-uh.

	AW:	I know they had moved in over there where I told you, on Sixth and University, which is off to G4 or something like that. But—





	H:	Yeah, Wilson’s was a big store. AW:	—it was downtown.

	JW:	Now, the original Penney’s was on the corner of Pleasant Street and University Avenue, on the south side. On the corner. And then right across from that, on the right, was Joe Silverman’s store.

	AW:	Yeah. Right.



	H:	Aw, you know what, Arago? They switched up all that stuff down there. When they put the courthouse and all that stuff down there? All that stuff was switched up, because—

	JW:	That’s, that’s right.



	H:	Yeah. Because I remember, you could go all the way around the courthouse, and all the way around the courthouse was stores.

	JW:	Where the clock is? H:	Right! Right!

	JW:	Where the clock is. I think there used to be right there a drug store.



	H:	Right. Right. Right. All that switched up down there. We forgetting what was going on down there. There was a hardware store down there somewhere, too.

	AW:	Downtown Gainesville used to be the main shopping area. I mean, it had the five- and-ten cent store, which was on the corner there. There used to be Chestnut Office Supply. And then you had Woolworth’s on the other side of the courthouse.

	H:	Sears.



	AW:	Yeah. All those. Everything was really right downtown, right—





H:  Let me tell you what it looked like. Let me tell you what it looked like, because I live out West most of the time now. And out West, you can pull at knees all the time. It looked like the courthouse in the center of town—

AW:  It was. It was.



	H:	And you could pull up your buckboard or horse to hitch it right there. Everything was around the courthouse. And it was hardware, it was this, it was that, just like what we talking about. And it gradually changed. Like, over there where you have the Silver Court, and the, where we talking about where that clock in Bo Diddley Plaza? That was stores over there at one time. Around the old courthouse there. Not the new courthouse, that’s not what we talking about. That old courthouse, okay? So, things changed up down there. They tore up a lot of stuff down there to bring that stuff in, you know? So it doesn’t look anything like it used to look.

	AW:	Matter of fact, that building there, right in front of the Silver Court there, on the corner there: that used to be a service station. And it was the oldest Gulf station. And they removed that when they tore down them other places, and placed it right there. First, the RTS used that for getting changed and purchasing other things. Now they using it for a little snack stand there. But that original building there was an old Gulf station, one of the oldest ones.

	H:	Now, which building is you talking about, Ar? AW:	Okay, downtown there at the Silver Court.

	H:	Mmhm.



	AW:	Okay, right in front of the Hilton Hotel. H:	Uh-huh.





	AW:	Right across the street there. You know where you can go and buy refreshments and—

	H:	That was a garage. There was a garage right there. There was a garage there. AW:	No, across the street from the Hilton.

	H:	I know what you talking about.



	AW:	Okay, there’s a little place there that you can buy— H:	Oh!

	AW:	That there was an old Gulf station.



	H:	The Gulf station moved around the corner, then.



	AW:	No, the Gulf station were more or less over there where that parking garage at. H:	Yeah. Yeah. And it moved up.

	AW:	Yeah.



	H:	Because I remember it. Because my father worked there. Over there on Main Street. That Gulf station on—

	AW:	Right up there on Main Street.



	H:	No, not that one. I’m saying the next one. After they moved it from that, they had to move it somewhere. Because it stayed downtown. But there was a Gulf station there, right there on whatdoyoucallit. Because my father worked there. And there was a man named Hayes, old man Hayes, on it.

	AW:	Right now where the voter registration office, that was a— H:	Some kind of garage was there.

	AW:	Chrysler… H:	Dealership.





	AW:	Dealership. H:	Okay. Okay.

	AW:	And across the street from that where the Gulf station was. And there was a vestibule.

	H:	That little, little place. AW:	Yeah.

	H:	Yeah, that little place was there. AW:	Mmhm.

	H:	They use it on, what is it, Wednesdays, when they have the market and all that stuff?

	AW:	Yeah. Right.



	H:	Yeah. I know what you’re talking about. But the Gulf station I’m telling you about now went around the corner there. It was in the first block right there, on Main Street. But it was where the florist was. There was a florist shop down there for years. I think it’s still a florist shop there. You know where the bank is? You know where you go for the Internal Revenue? Directly in front of there, there was a Gulf station there, on that corner.

	AW:	Okay, yeah.



	H:	You don’t remember. But I’ll show you where it was. JW:	Matthis? Over where that florist shop is?

	H:	Yeah. JW:	Oh yeah.

	H:	Yeah! My father worked there.





	JW:	And the Masonic Temple was just across the—



	H:	Yeah, across the street! Because I used to pump gas there. So I think that’s the same station we talking about. No, no, they kept it downtown, the Gulf franchise, you know?

	AW:	Oh, okay.



	JW:	No, no.



	H:	No? That was different.



	JW:	Yeah. Let me see now, where was that station? That station was—okay, it was right next to where Brooklyn Motor Company is. I can’t think of it now, I’m all mixed up.

	H:	I got it mixed up, too. I just remember that because I used to—my dad used to work there. And they had a Jeep. And the man he worked for name Mr. Hayes. They used to joke, and they called him “Gabby Hayes,” from the movies.

	AW:	Okay, all this stuff downtown there, even the Greyhound bus station down there, they had the fire station. Matter of fact, the fire station was right there in front of the Greyhound bus station. Then you had the University Chevrolet dealership right down the street from that. All of this stuff right there behind the Hilton, where that whole block there—

	H:	And that remained empty for a long time, building that you talking about. I know the building that you talking about. I know the building you’re talking about.

	JW:	You remember the dopdf the Lyric Theatre? Remember where it was? H:	Yeah.

	JW:	Movie Theatre? And the old Gainesville Post Office?





	AW:	Right, yeah.



	JW:	Pepper Paint Company owned the Gainesville Sun until the New York Times came and bought it out. Then they [30:50].

	H:	We talking about—there where we talking about is where the Hilton is, but we talking about where the Hippodrome is, also.

	D:	Oh, okay.



	H:	What we’re talking about is what was in that general area. And he’s naming all the different things that were in there.

	AW:	Okay, right next to that Hippodrome there, which is the old post office, you had the Bureau of Corro-rocher, and then all around there was the old Gainesville Sun. That whole complex there, I think, is the Sunrise Plaza, something there named there now. And all different type of office and…

	H:	But the Sun kept expanding, too. Because, yeah.



	AW:	Yeah. Well, that’s what—into like it is now. And then they move out here on 13th Street. That’s when New York Times came in and bought them out.

		JW:			 also, now. When they built the Oak Mall, then the stores downtown begun to be migrated, locate in the Oaks Mall. And the last major store to leave the downtown area was Wilson Company. They fought as long as they could.

And one of the things that were responsible, I think, for the deterioration of the downtown area was, they abandoned on-street parking.

	AW:	Mmhm. Yeah.



	H:	But tell them about the real estate deal, though, J. We don’t know much about it, because it was mostly other people doing it. But a big—where they built 95 and





75? There were money interests in it, and these people were involved with the mayorship, the planning commission, and organizations like that. They knew where that highway was going to go. The other thing they did, is they did things to make sure that highway went where they wanted it to go. And so, if you had looked at the town, and you saw where 75 was going to come through, you would have known where the city was going to grow to. We always knew this city was going to grow to the northwest. It was not going to go this way, back toward Hawthorne. But it was going to go that way. And what he was telling you about fits right into what I’m talking about: like, Wilson’s stayed downtown as long as they could. But they knew that they were going to have to cut it loose. But—

	JW:	Matthis, let me—



	H:	Go ahead, go ahead. You the one that—



	JW:	Also look at this, now: look at the boundaries of the city of Gainesville years ago.



Now, Columbia cut—you know Columbia Street?



	H:	No, I don’t.



	JW:	Well, let me think what it is to you. M:	Seventh, maybe.

	JW:	What is now Eighth Avenue, that was the northern boundary of the city of Gainesville. The southern boundary was down about where Southwest 16th is now. The eastern boundary was the Waldo Road. The western boundary was where the tennis court is at University of Florida. You know where 20th go into the athletic department there?

	H:	Yeah.





	AW:	Okay.



	JW:	Okay, well, next, you had a tennis court. That street right there. If you’re on the tennis court. That was western boundary.

	H:	Yeah, I know where the city limits was at. JW:	That was city of Gainesville. Yeah.

	H:	The Florida law school is what you talking about, where those tennis courts are.



Yeah. Yeah, that’s the boundaries. That’s the city limits.



	JW:	[Laughter] That was the city of Gainesville!



	AW:	But see, as the shopping area moved out west, then they expand. Just like they trying to get an annexation now. The city is trying to reach out as people move away out of the city.

H:  No, we know that. That’s a given. But that’s not the issue. The issue is that those people got everything they want, and they’re not going to allow themselves to be taxed anymore. So those areas are going to remain outside of the city limits.

That’s politics there, that’s going on now. But what we’re talking about is the real city of Gainesville. And city of Gainesville didn’t want to be—they didn’t want all that stuff out there, because they didn’t want to spend money for the pipes and all that stuff, and to have to extend electricity out there. The city of Gainesville was like—I hate to put it like this, but in terms of their thinking, a lot of it was ass- backwards thinking. It had to do with them not expending a lot of money. And Gainesville wasn’t a rich city. So I think that that was a part of it also. I think that as the university grew, I think that opened their eyes to possibilities, and they had some people down there that were more forward-thinking, and didn’t have they





head up they ass, thinking about segregation all the time, and how they could keep the city segregated. Because when it starts slipping away from the power structure, the people who really control the city, that’s when the city start to grow. And that’s also when you saw a lot of those figures that were the main pillars of the community start to fall away, and the city start to really grow. And the county probably became much more important than the city itself.

	D:	You mentioned that the abandonment of street parking was part of the decline?



You said the street parking, when they stopped allowing street parking.



	JW:	Right, right. That sort of discouraged people from wanting to go downtown. D:	Do you know what time that was?

	AW:	That was in the [19]60s, wasn’t it? JW:	Yeah.

	H:	Yeah. [19]60s. Early [19]60s.



	M:	So in the [19]50s, you could just park downtown. You had no trouble. AW:	Right.

	JW:	And, what’s the other shopping center on Archer Road? There’s a shopping out there—Butler. Now, Butler is a person I’ve seen rise from poverty to riches, to wealth. [Laughter] Butler at one time had his store in the Black neighborhood on the corner of Eighth Avenue and Arredondo.

	H:	J—since they’re recording, do you know his name? His first name? JW:	Butler?

	H:	Yeah, who the person was. It’s not important, but if you knew it off your tongue…





	JW:	And he had a store on the corner of Arredondo Street and Eighth Avenue. It is rumored that in order to get money to begin building Butler Plaza, that Butler burned his own store down and begun buying property out by where that plaza is now. It has been rumored. And you know what? And he really begun to expand in there. And I guess you might know that he didn’t have any boys. He has a daughter. And she’s in charge right now with everything, the expansion and everything they trying to do. Because they trying to expand it further right now.

That’s one of the controversial issues going on right now in Gainesville.



	H:	Do you know the corporation name for that outfit that’s there? Because I don’t know who they are.

	JW:	Butler Plaza? H:	Yeah.

	JW:	No, Matthis.



	H:	Okay. That’s not important. But, what— D:	Butler Enterprises.

	H:	That’s what it is? Butler Enterprises, okay. All right. So, I’ll look into that. AW:	Before it became Butler Plaza that used to be a stringle field.

	H:	That’s what I wanted to get to.



	JW:	And guess what, Matthis? And where that’s located, all that property was owned by Blacks!

	AW:	Yeah. Right.



	JW:	Because couple of them in my family. When I was a boy growing up, I wanted a pony worse than anything I knew. I never cared for bicycles. I wanted a pony.





And I had an aunt that lived out there in that area, and she owned—I mean guarded a property out there. And she tried to get my mother to allow me to come out and live with her, and she going to give me the pony. And I was really going to go out there and live with her, too! Just for that pony! [Laughter]

	H:	Now, one of the things you’ve got to remember about Butler Plaza: it preceded the mall. Butler Plaza was actually developing before the mall came in. I don’t know the reason that it developed out there. Do you know, J? Other than, it’s close to University, and that’s the way University was growing, in that direction?

	JW:	Well, Matthis, the people who lived around Oak Mall were corruptly opposed to even building Oak Mall there. That is. And Tom Coward—at that time, he running for commission—he was against it, too. But when they decided they going to build it anyway, then he joined the contractors and developers in approving of it. Self-aggrandizement.

	H:	Right. Now, go back and—hold up, hold up—



	AW:	Didn’t it have something to do with that—because the mayor at the time— JW:	No, he was not one that you would know.

	H:	Let him talk about whatshisname. Talk about who Thomas Coward is. No, no, I mean, because the tape is going. So you just mentioned a name, but nobody knows who he is. Well, he was first a teacher, and then what he’s talking about is, he became, after he retired, he became a real estate broker, and then eventually a developer. But he’s one of his contemporaries. The person we talking about.

	AW:	He was the county commission.





	H:	Yeah, he became a county commissioner. This is a Black guy.



	M:	Oh, yeah. Well, we do have a couple of interviews with him, actually. Yeah.



Mostly about his teaching.



	H:	Right. But I just wanted to make sure that that was on the record, like, his evolution. He didn’t—that’s not the whole of his life. A lot of it has to do with this here. But I think J, you ought to go back. Because J, you know about how this thing worked, what I was talking about. About this land stuff. You see, these expressways, they not going to change them but so much. But the planning commission of every one of these communities that these interstates went through, they knew before everybody else knew. This land around these, where these interchanges are, it changed hands. If you go back and look at the records and things, you can see it. It changed hands a whole bunch of times. And the amount of money that it was sold for—because people had inside information— so what he was talking about, about what was going around here in the northwest, what I’m saying is that, it didn’t matter what them people wanted out there. That if that—because, what’s it called, J? What’s the government term for when they take your land? Take it?

	JW:	Oh, yeah, I know exactly what you’re talking about, because— M:	Eminent domain?

	H:	Yeah. Eminent domain. JW:	Right, right, right.

	H:	They were going to declare eminent domain and get the land anyway. So what happened is, you got these good ol’ boys who got in on this whatdoyoucallit and





bought land. Because this land was—what they were doing was bidding the price of this land up. And anything where that highway was going to come through there, they were on it. They were on it in terms of land purchases. They were on it in terms of contracts with companies like Gulf or Exxon or whatever, to make sure that they had a plot that they could sell to a company, or open a business themselves, there. So, that was a big part of what was going on out there.

	AW:	Okay, one of them—there was a guy that, when 75 was coming up, they had to take the property from him?

	JW:	Well, we have a cousin—I can’t think of his name. He was one of the biggest landowners along there. And I-75 actually split his land in two.

	AW:	Yeah. Right, right, right, okay.



	JW:	Another thing that happened in that age was this: see, you used to have a tung oil business in Gainesville. And that was the base then from which you made paint. Oil paints. And the largest tung oil plantation and whatnot in America was located in that area, all coming around where the four o’clock church is, and out where, all around 43rd. Up this area and all that kind of thing. Black people used to have, I mean, big farms!

	H:	Do you know what he’s talking about? Do you know tung oil? D:	No, I don’t know what tung oil is.

	H:	Tung oil is something that looks kind of like a apple, but it has like little sections inside of it. But it was used to make the base for oil, is what he was telling you. And that the largest one in the country was in this area here. But it was grown, it was farmed out there in that area. T-U-N-G. Yeah, tung oil.





	JW:	Yeah, and beyond and around that land out there, now where most of the Whites are on the western section of Gainesville, it was owned by Blacks. Black farmers.

	H:	Now you got to look up Arredondo. That’s what he’s talking about, Arredondo.



Arredondo, if you go where the Golf and Country Club is up there, off of—what is that, Ar? Is that Newberry Road out there? No, that’s not Newberry. What’s that road out there? The Williston cutoff.

	AW:	Williston.



	H:	The land from that, all the way back, I know up to Newberry Road, that was called Arredondo. Still is. And still a lot of Black people out there that own land out there. But that’s the area that he’s talking about, that general area. But Butler Plaza was part of that land that we’re talking about. So if you go all the way down to where that Publix is down there, where you go onto 75, which would be, like, Newberry Road, and then keep going to the Williston cutoff, all the way up to where Butler Plaza is, that was Black land, is what he’s telling you.

	D:	And so was tung oil a major business for Blacks in Gainesville?



	H:	No, no, that was a plantation, that means Whites owned it. I don’t know what the—J, do you know the name of the plantation?

	JW:	I think I did, but I’ve forgot the name, I think. But I do remember.



	H:	Do you know where that plantation is out there now if you’re going out toward Archer? There’s some kind of plantation out there. That might be the one he’s talking about, I’m not sure. But plantation property existed in the midst of a Black area, where some Whitey coming in, bought up a whole bunch of land. And this tung oil probably was something that was imported here. Because the climate,





and the tree was hardy, and you had the workers here. So you had the right environment for growing that stuff, you know?

	AW:	No, the trees grow here. They’re all up in Mighty Oak, all around this area.



	H:	No, what I’m saying is, people come and they plant them. These were not—we’re not talking about something that—it’s just like tobacco farming in the South. They may have grown here, but what I’m saying is they came in and planted trees and had plantations here. Because they’re in the business, they not out running around gathering stuff from trees here and there.

	AW:	Yeah, I don’t know about that, but I know that a lot of trees—it still exists now, but no one do anything with them.

	H:	Yeah. Because you’re synthetic now, you use, what do you call it? Petroleum products.

	AW:	Lot of the area is still, I mean, right now, it’s still not maintained, now. And you can tell they beginning to phase out.

	H:	Yeah. But these trees were—what I think J is talking about—these trees were farms, just like there were pecan trees or something, you know?

	AW:	Right.



	JW:	Now, what do you fellows think about the idea of land use policies as they are practiced now?

	AW:	Zoning?



JW:  Yeah. I have mixed feelings about it. Because you think right now, Matthis, if you own, let’s say, 40 acres of land now in Alachua County, they can prescribe that it will be divided into five equal plots for a single dwelling. And it used to be that a





guy had 40 acres of land, he had a farm and he put on it anything he wanted to. And he could have it classified as agricultural property, and the taxes and things on it was almost nil. I was having dinner one day with my principal—assistant principal—and we were talking. And I had just paid my property tax. And my tax on my house cost me almost eight hundred dollars! And yet, my principal and his brother had inherited property from their father, and I paid more money on my house, and they had many acres of land! And I was paying more taxes on my house!

	H:	No, you’ve got to understand what he’s talking about. You talking about Newberry, right?

	JW:	Yeah.



	H:	Okay. So he’s talking about agricultural land down in the city of Newberry as opposed to what he’s paying here in Gainesville. And the land use policy is what decided it. The thing is, is that you got to look at where the power come from.

The power to set land use policy is granted to municipalities, counties, and these government entities. So they can make these policies: the county commission, city commission, or whatever. So we have nothing—I mean, we can talk about it, the way we feel about it—but we have nothing to say about it. It’s imposed on us. And if you go to the big cities, the same thing. Like, one of the things that happened to me, going to Los Angeles, I found out you could put a business next to a residential area. Whatever you want to do in Los Angeles.

	AW:	Not here, though.



	H:	Yeah, I know. I know.





	JW:	And you just mentioned a legal term a minute ago for the power of the government to condemn private property for public use. What did you say it was?

	M:	Oh, eminent domain?



	JW:	Eminent domain. Now, they have totally—that don’t mean what it meant originally! At all. There was a case was decided in Connecticut.

	H:	No, it was in Jersey.



	JW:	No, this one happened there in Connecticut.



	H:	You got two of them. But the New Jersey case is the one the Supreme Court got first. Had to do with condos in Jersey City—was it Jersey City, or Asbury Park? Right up and down there somewhere.

	JW:	And now, if you the property owner, whether you agree or not. Because they have the means that they can force you to accept, you see? Because you can challenge whatever they may offer you for your property, but now, challenging it don’t do any good now. Anymore.

	H:	That was, by the way, that was a Republican Supreme Court. That Asbury case? D:	Yeah.

	JW:	Oh yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.



	H:	Yeah. Yeah. That’s it, the Kelo case. You right, against New London? What happened in this here, J, is that several other cases were combined. Because you don’t get a Supreme Court case unless you got a conflict. So the case that I’m talking about may have been included in there. But I do know that the Asbury Park case had to do with condos. And these condos were not a public use. This was a private company. But the city said that it was going to improve the city. So





ultimately, that was a public use. So they did the taking. And they took it for a private use. So, basically what they said is that a government entity can do whatever the hell they want to do with land.

[Several people talking over each other.]



	H:	No, this just happened. This was a case in probably around 2000, or either 1999. AW:	I know in the [19]60s, they had something about that, too. But you know what—

	H:	That one didn’t mean nothing. But this is the important case to what I’m telling you about. See Asbury Park Development Domain Purchase? That’s the case, okay? And it came out of the Kelo case, I’m almost sure. But that’s a private use. But the city asked for it. And what they say is—because I lived in Asbury Park, because I know—and I worked there. Not during this time, but in days gone by. Asbury Park is a unique city. Asbury Park was a religious city. If you lived in Asbury Park, you had to take your car out of the Asbury Park on the weekend.

And there was no cars in there. People walked there. These were Christians, not Jews. Christians. You had to walk if you wanted to get around there. But your car could not be left there. Because they would either tow your car, or impound it, or you’d have a big fine, okay? So, that city has started to go down. Because that city had things like merry-go-rounds, and all kinds of nice things for kids to do.

And they had a beach, also. And tourists came there in the summertime. So you had to whatdoyoucallit, that city took a dive because the country got less religious. And as a result of that, they lost a lot of money. So what they wanted to do was to have people come in and build condos there. So that was the city’s thinking there. And I didn’t follow the case after that, but I just remember that





case as a private taking. But it’s probably Kelo case is same case that J is talking about, another interpretation of it.

	D:	Now, we know earlier on, there were some cases where Black landowners would just outright be killed, and their land would be taken. Did that happen to any degrees in—where you would just be shot and killed and your land would be taken?

	JW:	Oh, yes! Oh, yes, that happened! Oh, you think of—you know where Gulf Hammock is in Levy County? I had a relative that owned, I mean, many acres of land. In fact, he used to allow Whites to come there and hunt deer and things on his land. And he left and went to the store one day, went to a so-called Negro store, and bought a five-pound bag of flour, and was on the way back, and he was killed. And they didn’t discover and find his body until about a month ago.

Become decayed and all this sort of thing. And they finally got that property that they wanted.

	M:	What was his name?



	JW:	He was a Veal, his last name was Veal.



	H:	V-E-A-L. And there was a prominent family lived in Gainesville, James Veal. And I think it’s the same family.

	JW:	Yeah.



	H:	Right behind the Royal Cleaners on, what is that, Ar? AW:	That’s Ninth.

	H:	Ninth Street?



	AW:	Yeah. And Fifth Avenue.





	H:	Fifth Avenue, yeah. And Mr. Veal was an interesting character. The only thing I know about him, though: he used to go around and collect stuff. He was a collector. Like, he was the—

	AW:	His house was over here. Yeah, his house was loaded with stuff. [Laughter]



	H:	Yeah. He was the first man to realize the value of University of Florida students’ junk. [Laughter]

	AW:	Matter of fact, that’s a point!



	H:	And he didn’t want to buy it, see, he didn’t have a car. But he had everything that they discarded, and it had a value.

	JW:	Since you mentioned him, I’m going to tell you something: my great-grandmother was Margaret Veal. Margaret Veal was James Veal’s grandmother. And Margaret Veal bought her property down in Porter’s addition, right after Reconstruction happened. And so that plot was in our family for over a hundred years.

	H:	What?



	JW:	Yeah, yeah. H:	Holy shit!

	JW:	And so as a result of that, she was very powerful. People would get into difficulty, and they would come and have my great-grandmother come down and to sign a—

	H:	Collateral bond.



	JW:	—to have them released from jail. Anytime. H:	A bond, for collateral. Yeah.





	JW:	You know what I’m saying? Anytime. Yeah. And would not put up one dime. Just her word of mouth.

	H:	Do you understand what I’m talking about? You all probably wouldn’t understand the value of that, here. Because people probably wouldn’t trust a Black person to give them a bond. They didn’t have nothing to put up anyway. But by her having this expensive land, they were willing to whatdoyoucallit. So she, in effect, was a bail bondsman.

	JW:	That’s right.



	H:	But she wasn’t doing it for the money! It was usually, she would do something like this for the relationship. You know, like, she knew somebody, somebody knew her, wanted them to do her a favor. Now, they might give her something, but she wasn’t in the business.

	JW:	Right. Right. I mean, just her name. In fact, you take—after I’d begun teaching, there came a time when I needed some money. I didn’t have any, had no established credit or anything of that sort. And so, I went down to the bank. I knew the guy who was the president of the bank, because he and his wife were friends of my great-grandmother. They used to come on the front porch and sit and talk with her. J.B. Mobley. And so one time, I seen Miss—

	H:	Was he a developer, a house builder? Mobley?



	JW:	Yeah. Yeah. And so I told him, I says, “I’m Margaret Veal’s grandson, and I’m a teacher. I’d like to have a short-term loan.” “You Margaret grandson?” “Yeah.” [Pantomimes handing money over.] [Laughter] And so, any time I wanted me a





few hundred dollars, I’d go down there and get it! And I didn’t have anybody to [inaudible 56:54].

	D:	And where did your great-grandmother come from? Where did she come from?



	JW:	Originally, from South Carolina. And I’d be real interested in finding out about her. Like, maiden name. See, Veal was her married name. And I do know this: she was thirteen years of age when slavery was abolished. So that mean she was born in eighteen hundred fifty-two. And I been wanting to trace my family’s background, and find out really about her. Because I can say that I actually lived in a house with a slave. Former slave. She my great-grandmother.

	H:	J, what was the first name? JW:	Margaret Veal.

	H:	Margaret Veal? Okay. I’ll see what I can do. And you want to know the maiden name. Okay.

JW: And her husband was named Andrew Veal. AW: Do you know about Margaret’s husband? JW:  No, no I don’t.

	H:	I would start out there with those South Sea Islands, though. Because a lot of Black people were involved with the rice. And particularly if they came from the Caribbean region.

	JW:	You’re right. You’re right, yeah.



	H:	Yeah, I ran upon some Black people in New York that were from that area, and that’s how I learned about it.

	D:	My family’s from there.





	H:	Oh, okay. Okay. So you know what I’m talking about. The Geechees, they call it. D:	Yeah, Yemassee is the town where they from.

	H:	Yemassee? I don’t even know that one. But have you run across that term “Geechee”? Yeah? Okay, do you know what it is?

	D:	I actually had a roommate in college that was Gullah.



	H:	Okay, Gullah. It’s the Gullah people. You know about that, right J?



	D:	They got Gullah and Geechee. My grandmother used to tell me that, apparently, the Geechee were lighter-skinned ones, they called them “Geechee.”

	H:	Oh!



	D:	And the darker ones they called “Gullah.” But I don’t know if that’s—



	H:	No, no, I think it’s the same people. I don’t think it’s no different. [Laughter] Now, Gullah is G-U-L-L-A?

	D:	Yeah, G-U-L-L-A-H?



	M:	We did a few interviews with some Gullah folks over in St. Augustine. They were from the Carolinas there.

	H:	Yeah. All of them from the Carolinas there. Now, how you spell “Geechee?” D:	Geechee is G-E-E-C-H-E-E.

	M:	We’ve been told there was sort of a Geechee community in Grove Park. Do you know anything about it?

	AW:	Yeah, I heard about that. Yep.



	JW:	I do know that that was one of the most prominent Blacks in that area of Grove Park. I forget the name.

	AW:	Okay. Remember that beta that Tina was with?





	H:	Mmhm.



	AW:	She lived in Grove Park all her life. Mildred. I can go out and talk with her.



	JW:	There was a Black guy, he owned a lot of property parallel to the highway going toward Putnam County. And I can’t think of his name. He—

	H:	I’ve never seen a person that was a Geechee that wasn’t connected with South Carolina. I haven’t seen one yet. If I talk to them, and they start talking about they family and they family life, it always leads back to South Carolina. And it leads to that coastal part of South Carolina. You know.

	AW:	Now, the people that speak Pig Latin. H:	Pig Latin. Yeah.

	AW:	Now, where they are?



	H:	I think it’s the same people, isn’t it? You know what we talking about? Pidgeon Latin?

	D:	They call it like a “pidgin” language. H:	It’s Pig Latin, and pidgin.

	AW:	That’s what I was thinking of.



	AW:	I’ve heard my grandmother speak that, too. If she didn’t want you to know something.

	M:	That’s a—



	D:	It’s a combination of West African languages.



	M:	There’s one specifically that a lot of the grammar came from, but I can’t remember what it was. But in…

	D:	Sierra Leone? The Kroi?





	M:	Yeah… Okay, that might be it. Well, “creole” has got to be—what’s the, from Sierra Leone—

	JW:	Well, the Creole, now, isn’t that the people that live down around Louisiana? M:	Well, that’s one kind of creole.

	JW:	They are descendants from the French? And you can’t tell them, they’re considered to be Black, but you can’t tell them—just to look at them, you can’t tell them from White to save your life.

	H:	No, he knows the difference, he was just talking about—it’s one of the whatdoyoucallit. It’s a bunch of… But what’s the ones, the White ones that I’m thinking about? Because I worked for a guy like that. He said that he was from New Orleans or somewhere out there. And he said that they treated him worse than they treated the Black people.

	M:	Oh, Cajun you mean.



	H:	Cajun. Cajuns. And they talk altogether different. But it’s a kind of what is it? M:	Creole?

	H:	It’s a kind of creole language, isn’t it? M:	Yeah, creole is just like a mix. Kind of—

	H:	Out of the Caribbean, but also French is mixed in there. Yeah.



	JW:	I had a friend boy. His name was Salvador DuPree, and he was from Louisiana.



And he came from a Black and spoke what was supposed to be a form of French. And I can’t think of just the term for it. It’s not the refined French, just like many of us don’t speak highly-refined English. But they didn’t speak refined French. Derivative, or something off to the side. And when we were overseas,





and he was in France, he found it very difficult to communicate with the French people! [Laughter] He wanted to be speaking French!

	H:	But since we’re sitting here in this location, I got to tell you all about a very interesting thing that all these gentlemen know about, but you all don’t know about, but I think you’d appreciate, being University of Florida. There was a gentleman that lived on that corner, as you come in to the university? There was a house there where the post office is. In that general vicinity there. You know what I’m talking about, right? Bicycle man. [Laughter]

	AW:	Oh. Oh, oh, oh! [Laughter] Yeah, I know who you mean. I know who you mean. I can’t think of it. I—

	H:	No, this is a fantastic story. No, this is a fantastic story! [Laughter] Well, while he’s thinking of his name, let me tell you what he did. This guy used to ride around Gainesville—this was a guy, I think he was an ex-student or something, a White guy—and he was the early version of a hippie. And he would have his dogs with him. Wherever he went, he’d be riding that bicycle, and you’d see those dogs behind him. Not all of them go with him. And they kind of lived on the front porch of that place, there. But he repaired bicycles for students and things. And I don’t know what else—Arago, you probably know more about him than I do. But, he was a sight to see. No, but, he was really cool, though. But he was an interesting character, though, you know? But he was right there, right in that general vicinity there. But I call him bicycle man, because I don’t know his real name. But that’s what he did, repaired bicycles and stuff there.





	AW:	Usually, I think, end of the semester, or end of the term, he would go around on campus, and get these bikes left behind, and anywhere he’d find a bike in Gainesville, he’d bring them in. And all of the sudden, the students started missing they bicycles. And this is where it all got involved.

	H:	Oh, I didn’t know about that part! [Laughter]



	AW:	They went in on the property, and man, he had beaucoup bicycles! And find out that a lot of the bicycles had been stolen. People had bought another, and I think the fire department, and burry kith, and other organizations came in possession of a lot of the bicycles that he had.

	H:	He was there for years, though. For years. D:	What years was this around?

	H:	Prior to the [19]60s. Let’s say [19]50s.



	AW:	Yeah. Late [19]50s. Late [19]50s, and went up into the [19]60s. Probably pretty near to [19]70.

	M:	If we go back and look at the old Alligators or something, we may find something.



Sometimes hard to search online.



	AW:	Yeah. They did a big article in the Alligator about it, too.



	H:	You don’t remember the name? He was a prominent figure here. He was a prominent figure here in the community. You know what I’d do? I’d just do a Google search with “bicycles,” “1950,” “University of Florida.” Something like that. Might be surprised what pop up.

	M:	Did a lot of people ride bikes back then?



	H:	Oh, it still is. People always ridden bicycles here.





	JW:	The ownership of bicycles used to be a big deal in Gainesville.



	H:	Mmhm. Yeah, they had unique serial numbers, and you—the serial number, you could see where it was. It was on the frame, usually on the back of the chassis. That was one of the places. But it was other places, too, maybe.

	AW:	Okay, back in the day, you had to had your bicycle registered because— H:	With the police department.

	AW:	And if they catch you without that plate— H:	Confiscate it.

	AW:	They imposed.



	H:	Yeah, they’d confiscate your bicycle. M:	Was it expensive? How much…?

	H:	What the—yeah, for the plate. But the bicycles were more expensive in the old days than they are now. Because, the goal of the—

	JW:	That was your daddy’s kind of thing. He used to maintain found bicycles, Matthis. H:	Oh, he did?

	JW:	Yeah.



	H:	Oh, I did not—you talking motorbikes, though, not— JW:	Yeah, yeah, yeah—no, no! Bicycles.

	H:	Really?



	JW:	Yeah. With the button the side on top the tank, that way you blow the horn and then the lights on it, and—

	AW:	Oh, yeah! I remember that.



	H:	Yeah, I didn’t know about that. I didn’t know about that.





AW:  Yeah.



H:  But I’ll tell you what: when I was a kid, we had brand-new Schwinns. And these were like the smaller version of a bicycle. But the Schwinn was the bicycle you wanted to have. Yeah, in the old days.

AW:  It was good, too. A Schwinn was just like having a Cadillac.



	H:	I know, I was about to say— [Laughter] It was the Cadillac of the bicycle business.

AW:  Yeah, they had springs on the front of them…



	JW:	But that ain’t go nothing. I remember a time when the Cadillac was the car. I remember the time when the car was a Packard.

	H:	Packard. [In unison] JW:	Yes! Oh, yes!

	H:	Didn’t Reverend White have a Packard?



	JW:	Yeah. Mmhm. That was a car. But the car that I liked back in the day was the Edsel. Press button in the steering wheel, that’s where the gears are. They didn’t make too many of those. But they made a car that you guys don’t know anything about. They used to make a car called a Cord Seashell RD.

	H:	I read about it.



	JW:	Yeah, and it was the first car that pulled with the front wheel.



	H:	Oh, front wheel drive? Yeah. I remember seeing something about it. AW:	That’s the first I ever heard of that.

	M:	That the one? [Projected on the screen, via a Google images search.] JW:	Mmhm.





	H:	There’s one, right there. CRD. But there was another company, too. Cord was one company, but there was another company. What about the Bugatti, J? That was a European car. Bugatti?

	JW:	Mmhm.



	H:	The Bugatti’s still a classic.



	AW:	They have four wheel drive then?



	H:	Yeah. I don’t know if that one is, you know. JW:	That was pretty, wasn’t it?

	H:	Yeah.



	JW:	Now, you know where the garage used to be? Remember how along that was? H:	Yeah.

	JW:	Well, that was a call to Royce part of town, you know. H:	Huh. You guys know Bugatti, don’t you?

	D:	We got new ones. [Laughter]



	H:	Oh, no, Bugatti goes way back. Yeah. That was the car they had, too. JW:	[inaudible]

	AW:	Yes it was.



	D:	Did Blacks own any?



	H:	Oh! [Laughter] Stop dreaming!



	D:	Well, if he said he had to get his Chrysler from, or his car from out of town—



	H:	Oh, yeah. A lot of the—they, Black people, because they couldn’t get financing probably, a lot of them got they cars out there. I remember the teachers—J would





know more about this than me. But I think the teachers would go all kind of places to get they cars.

	AW:	Nobody was able to buy Cadillacs. Gainesville—which was right then, you couldn’t buy no Cadillac being Black. You had to go out of Gainesville to get a Cadillac. And then you had trouble, too. Once you come back in town with a Cadillac, being Black. J’d know more about that.

	JW:	Well, you take for example—my mother and I went to Putnam County to attend a lady’s funeral. And I had a brand-new 1957 pink and black Black Cadillac. And I stopped at Rochelle because my gas was running low, in the [19]70s, on a Rochelle road, and Hawthorne Road?

	AW:	I remember that.



	JW:	I pull in there to buy some gas, and the female owner came out, asked her husband, “Must I sell him some gas?” He said, “Hell, no!” They wouldn’t sell me gas! [Laughter]

	H:	Do you guys know where Rochelle is? M:	Out by Hawthorne, right?

	H:	Yeah. Yeah, yeah.



	JW:	Yeah, they wouldn’t sell me gas! M:	How’d you get home?

	H:	He wasn’t empty, he was just low. JW:	I was low.

	M:	Had enough to get back.



	JW:	Yeah, that Cadillac was [inaudible 1:10:46]





	H:	Yeah, right. AW:	Yes. That’s it. M:	Oh, man.

	JW:	Yep.



	H:	Now, let me tell you something about cars, though. Talking about cars, here. And I don’t remember that much of it, because I was a youngster, but my father was involved in the car business, because he was a mechanic. But teachers, the local teachers in Alachua County, they had good cars. A lot of them had good cars.

They could afford it because they had salaries that paid decently. Not well-paid, but decently. And, so they were probably sacrificing something else. But, they would go other places. So they knew what kind of cars were in vogue and stuff, you know? They advertised, but only a couple of Black people—J, you remember this here, when the TV came in the whatdoyoucallit? The TV screen was like this here. The box that it sit in was like this here from the floor. But I know three Black people, I think, that had television: the Turnipseeds were one of the people that had a TV. I remember Lewises had one. And I don’t know who else had TV. But it was only a few TVs here. We had no television station here. The television station came from Jacksonville. But in those days, you didn’t have a lot of waves and stuff jumping all around. So if you had a decent antenna, you could see TV here. But TV was only a few hours of whatdoyoucallit. It wasn’t a whole lot of TV like it is now. And that’s the only channel that you get. There were other channels, but you couldn’t get them. They’d come in, like, in and out, and stuff like that, you know? Now, I’m talking about late [19]50s-era, early [19]60s…





	AW:	My grandmother had one, too.



	H:	Your grandmother had one? Yeah, okay. But it was a few of them around, it wasn’t a whole bunch of them around.

	M:	So did people kind of congregate where there—



	H:	Oh, yeah, it was a big thing to go to somebody house—what you talking about? [Laughter] You made appointment, or you’d get killed! You’d get killed trying to get to that TV, boy! [Laughter]

	AW:	Before TV, kind of had radio. You didn’t have too many people who had radio until much later.

	JW:	Arago, I can recall a time when I could call the name of any Black who owned a car in Gainesville. And more people wanted cars than they would use of them. Bootleggers or letter carriers. The persons, Blacks, that owned the biggest homes, were either letter carriers or bootleggers. And people did the bootlegging in cooperation or collaboration with the police officers, paying them. Boy, you could operate big business!

	H:	Do you understand what bootlegging is? M:	Oh, yeah.

	H:	Okay. Now, this county—this is something you got to be familiar with—this county was a dry county up until, when, J? [19]60s? What, about [19]65?

	JW:	No.



	H:	[19]67?



	AW:	It probably was [19]70, wasn’t it? H:	[19]70?





	JW:	No, no, no, no… H:	Was it that late?

	JW:	No, it was back further than that. I’m trying to think.



	H:	I know it had to do with the [19]60s, because I remember when whatshisname, Shorty Johnson, bought a piece of that thing down there where that florist is down there by the railroad track. I remember that.

	JW:	Well, not just Shorty Johnson, there were— H:	Well, a bunch of people.

JW: There was Dr. Banks, T.B. MacPherson, Tom Coward. They all collaborated and got together and bought the thing. But they was doing it to speculate. They want to get that license to event the hold in the seventh. Right.

	H:	But what it is, is when they brought those licenses, in, the Black people got a piece of the action. That’s what we talking about. And eventually, those licenses, all of them, ABC bought up all of those licenses.

	JW:	Yeah, ABC bought them all up.



H:  And, which was one of those things that was a bad thing, because that license should have stayed out there where people could still have the income coming from them today.

	JW:	But Matthis—excuse me—but right today, ABC will take and sell anyone their liquor stores right now. If you wanted to buy it and had the money to buy it, they’d sell it. Because people aren’t drinking liquor anymore! It is now drugs. And they chasing drugs with beer.





	AW:	I’m going to tell you something else, too. I don’t know if you’re aware, there’s, right on the corner of 6th and 23rd where ABC liquor store is? They has a lot of property. They had the intention of being something big. From 6th Street, coming in where that creosote plant was. They own all that property.

	H:	All the way down to that Goodwill, almost. AW:	Yeah. You’re right. It go deep in there, too.

	H:	Only reason I know that is I see their signs there and they tell you that they own that property. Do you know what we talking about? Do you know on—what is it, 8th Street, and 23rd, there’s a ABC liquor store there. If you go back toward Waldo Road, about almost to the Goodwill store down there, that’s ABC liquor store’s property, is what he’s telling you. So, they had big plans for developing over there. But—

	AW:	Right.



	H:	Part of it is—you all know about the part of it at the creosote plant over there. M:	Soil contamination and all? Right.

	H:	Yeah, it’s contaminated soil. So that’s probably part of the problem over there.



	AW:	Now, that’s a place y’all don’t want to leave out, that was one of the biggest operations here in Gainesville. I remember the days that I was a kid. During the summer, they always give a big party.

	H:	Barbecue, wasn’t it? Wasn’t it a barbecue?



	AW:	Yeah. It had baked beans, barbecue, you name it. And had baths here, wold salts there. And everyone would be—I mean, White and Black, because they still stay to the decimated code back in them days. [Laughter]





H:  Now, you know what that plant was doing, don’t you? M:  Wasn’t it telephone poles and stuff?

H:  That’s it. Yeah. They were pressurizing those poles with that stuff to preserve them, so that the pole didn’t rot fast or get eaten up or something, you know? And I think they had a lot of Black people working there, too, didn’t they?

JW:  Yeah, that’s right. All Black.



H:   Was it all Black? I didn’t realize that.



	JW:	Yeah. Now, there are a lot of people trying to exploit that situation, Kopper and Company. They trying to exploit that, because, I tell you why: in any direction from the point you just mentioned, in any direction from that, there are people trying to lay claim that their land has been contaminated as a result of the thing. I mean, from blocks and blocks away! You take all the way back to 39th, people trying to get in on it, trying to exploit it.

	H:	But it’s a fact that it is a plume under the whatdoyoucallit. Underground. That’s a fact.

	JW:	Well, yeah. But now, you wouldn’t contaminate the whole… [Laughter]



	H:	It’s the water table that’s contaminated, J. What they do—you know what they do, don’t you? They do drillings. So they know. They know exactly how much of it is really contaminated. And then EPA is the one that’s in charge of it. The contractors, independent contractors that do it.

	JW:	Matthis, they’ll never collect.



	H:	I’m not interested in that part of it. But I’m just saying that the whatdoyoucallit is there. We have the same problem in New York over there where Greenpoint,





Brooklyn. That’s the largest one in the whole country. This—do you know about that one, Ar? You do know about it. You know where those gas tanks—if you go on, like, go in from downtown Brooklyn, going toward Queens, there’s a creek that you cross over there.

	AW:	Right.



	H:	That damn creek, you could strike a match and throw it and it’d catch on fire! No, the cleanup! And you could go out there right now and look at it. It’s between Manhattan and Queens and Brooklyn. But it’s a whole section in there, where they’ve had fuel—this was a depot during World War II. You all probably too young to remember this here, but the Navy used to have a big base right there at the bottom of the Brooklyn Bridge. Okay? All that was Navy. So I’ve got a hunch this dump is a part of that whatdoyoucallit, where they kept fuel. But one of the largest oil plumes in this country—they don’t even know how to start cleaning that one up. That one has been on the list. And you can get this list, by the way, the EPA list of all these contaminated sites. And they contaminated from different things. But one of my relatives is a lawyer—well, used to be a lawyer at EPA. That’s not how I know about it, because I just studied it over the years. But I can get information about these things, these plumes and things. But there’s a bunch of them all over the country. I’ve seen them out in California. They did—I’m trying to think of where it is. It’s out there, it’s in Los Angeles. They did work for the Defense Department. There’s a site out there that’s like fenced in with this government fence, that has radiation. And it’s right by a big old shopping center or something out there. But I walked upon it by accident, and I forgot what it was,





but it’s named after one of these scientists. One of these important scientists did his research there. But that’s one of those sites that’s contaminated to this day, you know? But a whole lot of them around the United States. There’s another one is Hanford. Hanford whatdoyoucallit—

	M:	Up in Washington, yeah.



	H:	Up in Washington, Washington state.



	AW:	There’s another place, too. It used to be Atkins Crate Mill. And right there on Depot there and South Main, that used to be another large plant. And for a long time—

	H:	It’s to the south of Porter’s Quarters.



	AW:	Yeah. For a long time, they want to say that this company caused they soil to be contaminated.

	H:	Contaminated, yeah.



	JW:	Well, they still live in that area. But they haven’t went to work for years. They still working on it.

	H:	What was that before the crate mill? Because the crate mill is what they call it now.

	JW:	An oil distribution center. H:	Oil?

	JW:	A fuel oil distribution center.



	H:	Oh, okay. So that’s what it is. It’s the fuel oil, it’s not the crate mill itself. JW:	Yeah. It is contaminated bad. Yeah.





	AW:	Now, they had a lot of tanks right there, too. I mean a whole—I used to be scared to go alone there.

	H:	A lot of what?



	AW:	Tanks.



	H:	Oh, yeah. Yeah, I know. I remember, I remember. All those fuel trucks used to pull out of there.

	AW:	Yeah. And also, right there where the RTS depot area, that used to be another bad area.

	H:	That was the end of the Seaboard Railroad, wasn’t it?



	JW:	No, it wasn’t the end, but it came through here. Anyway, that was the Gainesville Gas Company.

	AW:	Yeah. Right, right. Yeah.



	D:	I heard soldiers from Camp Blanding used to come into Gainesville, too on the weekend. Black soldiers?

	H:	[Laughter] Talk to him! JW:	What about it?

	D:	Black soldiers from Camp Blanding would come into Gainesville?



	JW:	Oh yes. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. Yes, quite a number. And they would congregate down on what they called Seminary Street, which is now Fifth Avenue. Yep.

	AW:	Those were the days, though. And see, I’m a World War II baby. And he say he don’t remember, how did I remember that, but I remember the time when they came home. I don’t know whether it was 1943 or [19]44, but I remember seeing





all these brown uniforms coming into the house one night. And they were just passing me around, one to the ‘nother. And I told him about that, but he say he don’t see how I remember that! [Laughter] But I remember very well.

	JW:	Oh, yeah. Arago, you can remember things at three years of age because, see, I came back from the Service in 1945. And you was three years old.

	AW:	Uh-huh. Yeah, I’ll never forget that night. M:	You remember that far back?

	AW:	Oh, yes I do! Yep. [Laughter]



	D:	What’s your earliest memory, Mr. Welch?



	JW:	Earliest memory? One is the first time I ever visited a school in my life. I have a cousin, she was born in 1918. And I was her pet. And of course, she was school- aged. And she would take me to school with her. And I remember the time when I’d be too embarrassed. I asked her to take me to the bathroom to read. And so, one day, she took me to school, and had me sitting on this double thing right, and I went off! [Laughter] I went all over!

	AW:	I remember the days when long what they shared that which is Archer Road was nothing but dirt road. I remember him putting me in his lap. I remember the car was black. And he had a stick, and you had a stick in the floor, you had it here. And had me steering the steering wheel. Had me go down that dirt road. You remember that?

	JW:	No, I don’t, but…





	AW:	He had one of those black cars, I don’t know, Mollowtail or what, but I remember that very well. That’s the first time I ever got a chance to put my hand on the steering wheel. Yeah, I’d be there in his lap.

	JW:	But my uncle did the same thing, similar, to me when I’d go—my mother’s brother. He used to work for V and We Chevron Company, and he drove a wrecker. And boy, two or three times in the day, he’d go out to dispose of the oil that they had taken out of cars. And he’d stop by the house: “Bunker! Come here, boy!” When I’d get out, he’d have me sit in his lap, and man, if you’d seen me driving this—[pantomimes a child driving]—in his lap. [Laughter]

	AW:	But you know, I’ll tell you, you may not know how we are. This is my mother’s brother. And he is the only one figure as a man in my life. I never did see my father until I was thirteen years old. And this is just one day. And then later on, after I got grown, I saw him again. And that was it. But he’s the one that I want to say I was parented by. I had other brothers and sisters. But none of them didn’t want to stay here. They all went north with my mother. And when I got eighteen years old, my mother tooked me away from my grandmother. But when I got eighteen years, I came back home. And I been here ever since. And to me, he’s more like a father to me. And today, a lot of people think that he’s my dad. And I don’t correct them. [Laughter] Yeah, I feel like he is my dad.

H:  He comes from a large family. I think you ought to mention all the names of your sisters and brothers, because it’s a—it’s not the largest family in Gainesville, but it’s one of the larger families, though.

AW:  Well, I understand the Welches one of the largest family in Gainesville.





	H:	In Alachua County.



	AW:	Yeah. Right. And like I say, my mother, she had eight. Yep. I’m the oldest of the eight. As a matter of fact, when I was in school, he taught school up in Alachua. And I was going to Lincoln School, and there were times that he would let me have his car. I would take him to school, and then come on back to Lincoln.

Didn’t have a driver license. But fortunately, I never did got stopped. Never got any tickets or anything.

	H:	But you’ve got to know something about Gainesville, though: in the old days, a driver’s license wasn’t a big deal. It really wasn’t. If you was a certain people, and they stop you, they’d say, “Okay, boy. Go ahead on home.” Or whatever, you know, like that. But I don’t know when driver’s license became a big deal. I guess around the time that we started—

	JW:	Driver’s license came into being in the state of Florida in 1939.



	H:	Yeah. We—in the [19]60s is when it started to become—late [19]50s, early [19]60s, probably, became a big deal. But most people didn’t even have a damn driver’s license. I remember that when I was a kid. Cop wouldn’t stop you about no driver’s license!

	JW:	Matthis, I drove a car to school almost every day when I was at Lincoln High School. Drove to school. My mother would walk to work and let me have the car so my sisters and I could ride to school. And—

	H:	Oh, I heard about that! I heard about that! JW:	And I drove a better car—

	H:	—than the teachers drove! [Laughter] I heard about that! Yeah.





	AW:	That’s what sound like my grandmother. She was working at the Alpha Gamma fraternity house. The year that she bought a 1955 Chevrolet. They didn’t like the idea of her driving that car to work. And they got rid of her because of that.

	JW:	That’s true.



	H:	Now, where was she working at, Aro?



	AW:	The Alpha Gamma fraternity house here on 4th Avenue and— H:	Alpha Gamma. One of the frat houses.

	AW:	Uh-huh. She was a cook there.



	JW:	Now, that’s one of the advantages that my mother had over many other Blacks during the Depression days. See, she was a commercial cook. And she earned a salary higher than that two dollars and cents a week that most people earned.

And that enabled her to buy cars and things. And she was an early car owner. She kept a nice automobile. All the time. And so what Arago just referred to was in 1955, the house mother at the fraternity house where she worked at, bought a 1954 Chevrolet used. And my mother bought a 1955 brand new. And so, she went to work one day, and the lady ask her, say, “Rowena, whose car is that?” She says, “My car.” She go, “Anybody that can afford to own a car like that can’t work for me!” And fired her right there on the spot.

	H:	Now, you’ve got to realize, there was scuttlebutt probably already. Lady probably already knew it was her car. So, that was to make it formal. Now, something that J didn’t mention—J, when did Miss Green buy her own property? Because see, she owned property, you see? So that separated the situation. Like, if you would’ve rented, that little whatever you were making, most of it was probably





going toward the rent. At least half of it. But Miss Green owned her house, and her property. So she could afford to make a purchase like that. She wasn’t a bootlegger or anything like that, either. So. That’s the real issue. Blacks who were property owners, or had acquired property, were—the Whites, really, were after them. Okay?

	AW:	Because, see, we was living in what they call Dell’s Quarters. But now, when people refer to me, “You live in Dell’s Quarters,” I say, “No, I live in Rowena quarters.” That was my grandmother’ name. [Laughter] The house is located in that area, but it wasn’t owned by Dell’s. Now see, Dell’s was right next to Porter’s Quarters.

	H:	Now, do you all know who the owners were of all these things we talking about? Like, Porter’s Quarters was owned by somebody, I don’t know who it was. Dell Quarters—these were generally White people that owned them. What’s the one over there by where my family lived at over there on Main Street?

	JW:	Let’s see… It was Beasy Williams…



	M:	[To JD] Next plate, maybe. [To everyone else] Trying to bring it up on the [screen]. Because he was mapping out some of the—oh, that’s not it. Maybe the next… Yeah, that’s the other side of it. [JD is searching for the map in Miller 1938, “Negro Life in Gainesville,” on UF Digital Collections.]

	H:	Copeland. Copeland is another name.



	M:	No, those are the ones that we were just— H:	It should come up.

	M:	I think it was the one up above that. You had it, you just had the back end of it.







D:

This it? Oh—

M:

Uh, yeah, the next one. Right there.

D:

Okay.

M:

Yeah, so he mapped out some of the neighborhoods.

H:

Okay. Dell Quarters, yeah. I never heard of this one! Pistol Alley? [Laughter]

JW:

Yeah, yeah! I know where Pistol is!

H:

Springhill. I know that one. Sugarhill, I know that one.

M:

Yeah, so we got—

H:

Y’all got Porters. Should be Porter’s, not Porter, it should be Porter’s.

JW:

Matthis. Now, you admit that you don’t know anything about the Pistol.

H:

No, I don’t know that one! [Laughter]

M:

That’s right over—

H:

Where’s that one at, J?

M:

Should be right over and to the left.

JW:

Yeah, yeah. Red Quarters, yeah.

M:

So he’s saying this is Pistol, and this is Red’s Quarters? Is that right?

JW:

Mmhm.

H:

Ah, okay.

M:

Hard to read what the street names are, but you can kind of tell by the…

H:

Now, where is that, because I don’t know where that is?

M:

Let me see… I think—oh, that’s Pleasant Street right… Okay, so that’s Pleasant



Street running through it right there. So yeah. And this is… Pistol Alley, what is



that street name?





	H:	Oh, yeah, there it is, yeah. Pistol Alley. M:	Says something street.

	H:	Okay.



	AW:	Now, originally, where’d it get its name from, though?



	H:	Probably people getting shot up in there! [Laughter] What is that today? Do you know what that is?

	M:	See, I can’t tell from the…



	JW:	Okay. Matthis? You on the corner of 8th Avenue and Main, going north. AW:	O-kay, I see where it is.

	D:	Well, there’s Garden Street.



	JW:	You run through all that. You run through Pistol, you run through Red’s Quarters, all that.

	AW:	Yeah. That right by CVS.



	JW:	All along where the Gainesville Shopping Center— H:	Oh! Okay!

	JW:	You know where the Gainesville Shopping Center is? H:	Yeah.

	JW:	All that.



	H:	Oh! Right where the whatdoyoucallit—the senior citizens’ home is over there. JW:	All that.

	H:	And Goodyear.



	JW:	Right. Yeah.



	H:	Okay. Yeah, okay.





	D:	Can you tell us a little about Pistol Alley? What you remember, any stories? AW:	I don’t know too much about it, but I heard of it. Yeah.

	H:	He’s talking to J.



	JW:	I’ll tell you one thing about those areas, now. H:	Housing was substandard over there, too.

	JW:	White police officers wouldn’t dare stick their nose in the Pistol, the Red Quarters, after dark. Wouldn’t dare—he wouldn’t dare. No. Now, in the daytime, they’d do anything they wanted to do, but at nighttime, unh-uh! They wouldn’t dare stick their nose in there! No! Them Blacks would tear down them down, and tear them down in a minute.

	H:	There was a train track that came up through there for years, wasn’t there? AW:	Yeah, down Main Street.

	JW:	Right down Main Street, yeah.



	H:	Because I remember the siding in recent years. And it went all the way down… JW:	Right. All the way—

	H:	All the way to Waldo Road or something if I’m not mistaken.



	AW:	No, no, he talking about the Sea road. See, there’s two different lines that came into Gainesville.

	H:	Yeah. I know. I know.



	AW:	The one that used to run downtown— JW:	Latin Score.

	AW:	Yeah, that was the—



	H:	One ran right down the middle of Main Street.





	AW:	Yeah. And see, that ran right across the Seaboard down there on Depot. I remember we used to cross that. And then, the old trail that you see going out on Sugarhill? All that was the Atlantic Coastline. Then Seaboard would go out down Depot, and then cross over on Waldo Road—

	H:	Go out to Archer?



	AW:	—and, yeah, and go through Archer, too.



	H:	Okay. Okay. Yeah. You know what we talking about, right? There’s two different rail lines here. And the one we talking about, that’s the bicycle trail. That’s their line.

	AW:	Atlantic Coastline.



	H:	So if you go out to Archer now—I was out there yesterday, and I was looking at it, and I realized what it was. That they talking about in the news. That’s that trail, that nice bicycle trail that they put down out there. It’s beautiful.

	AW:	That bridge that go across 13th Street and Archer Road that used to be where the Seaboard used to run across. But I used to love it here when the Atlantic Coastline come along. They got a bodil. You can tell every time they got a body. Because when they come through town, they had that moan, like to get sad blow. And they’d let you know they’ve got a body on there, too! [Laughter] Then they eventually moved it from Main Street to 6th Street. The train station is where Santa Fe College is at now. That used to be—

	H:	Where was that before that? It was on Main Street? AW:	Yeah. It was on Main Street.

	H:	Ah, okay. Okay.





	AW:	And then they move it to 6th Street.



	H:	Ah, okay. I think I do remember that, when they changed that.



	AW:	The train station used to be down near where the greathouse bank is. JW:	And that came [inaudible 1:36:41] down here.

	H:	Which one? Which bank? Where the tax place is now? AW:	Yeah, right.

	H:	Okay.



	D:	Where did the train come from? Where did it go? AW:	Okay, all right, now—

	H:	The Atlantic Coastline came from Jacksonville.



	AW:	Atlantic Coastline used to go right down Main Street, go through Alachua, and some kind of way it wiggle back around to Jacksonville. They used to have, it’s a several meter. And the Orange Blossom. The Orange Blossom come out of the west side of Florida, and the Sevemina come out of the east side. And they get in Jacksonville, and that’s when they would merge. And in Jacksonville, they had a big turnabout where they disconnect the engine and change and put a different engine on. And then it had a big old round thing that—

	H:	It’s called a “table.”



	AW:	Yeah, a table, right. And that was a pretty thing that leave out of Jacksonville.



Nothing but just several coaches going north.



	H:	Have any of you all ever seen what we talking about, these tables? M:	Y—





	H:	What it is, is the engine, the engine is what they would do, is they would switch engines around. In San Francisco, they still have it, because they have the streetcars. So what they do is, they turn it around. They would put it on this table, and you could physically use manpower to actually move the thing around. I’m sure they probably had engines laid on or something. But you could spin them.

And that’s how you’d change the direction of them.



	AW:	Now, this train, once you get—I think it was Washington, D.C., it’d go through that same procedure again. This time what they’re doing is putting the electrical engine on it. Because, see, you can’t go in New York with a diesel engine.

Especially going through the tunnel. So they had to put an electrical, and just have it hook up to the cable. And then it goes right into the Port Authority.

	H:	Y’all know what he’s talking about? D:	Mmhm.

	H:	Those overhead wires that you see up in the northeast. Primarily for pollution. So they had the same thing going on for electricity. And I think it’s still that way today, by the way. Yeah. I’m not sure.

	AW:	Back to the early days. Because, see, down there—they’ve been raising sand about Greyhound. They sat a long time with the engine out, and they get a lot of sewage and things from the buses just sitting out. And they’re trying to come up with something now—

	H:	They’re changing fuel. They’re changing fuel in the engines.



	AW:	No, what they’re doing now, they’s talking about putting a pipe to take the fuel out, while it’s sitting there out. Because they have to sit there out for a—





	H:	Yeah, it’s actually a federal law now, that, on the island. See, what it was, on the old diesel engines—a couple reasons. You had to run the air conditioner and stuff, you got people on there. But also, they were harder to stop. But they’ve gotten round a lot of those problems. But in Los Angeles, at the port of Los Angeles and the port of whatdoyoucallit, I can’t think… They got two ports together, the ships, they come in. They did a study, and all of the pollution out there—because it’s a valley, actually—I think it was like more than fifty percent was coming from the ships and the diesel engine trucks and stuff. So what they did is they changed the fuel. If you going to California after a certain whatdoyoucallit, you can’t take that truck in there. It’s got to burn clean diesel. So all of those trucks must burn clean diesel. But I’m sure that that’s why they going to go to all the buses on the east coast if they haven’t already done that, because they not going to have them going into places like New York with that nasty diesel. So it’s just the engine. But it’s the conversion to that engine. And they give them whatdoyoucallit, they give them money to help them with it out there. And then the ships, they have to actually plug into electricity when they come in. So, all of that’s in process now, I don’t know the beginning and the end dates. But that’s what they doing out there. To eliminate the largest pollution.

	JW:	Matthis, let’s get back to one other thing. Now, when you said Negro Life in Gainesville, now, we talk about the social life in Gainesville was confined primarily to two streets. Seminary, and Pleasant.

	H:	Oh yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah.





	JW:	I mean, Blacks had everything they want right in they own neighborhood. You could walk out in your neighborhood, go to the yard, go to the grocery store, or go to drink, or anything. So—

	H:	Now, Pleasant Street was the one where K-Co was, right? JW:	Right, right.

	AW:	Well, he had two places.



	H:	Yeah, I know. I know. I know. But there used to be, there was boarding houses— oh, I remember that! Right where the rec center is, to the right, there was a lot of stuff down there going toward Mt. Pleasant!

	JW:	Yep.



	AW:	Right, right.



	H:	Yeah, going down that way. It looked a little like New Orleans down there, because it had quite a few double-decker buildings down there and all that.

	JW:	Mmhm, that’s right, that’s right.



	AW:	See wedding stores right on that corner. Yeah. And then they had a boarding house above that.

	H:	Uh-huh, yeah. Now, the thing that you mention there is interesting for another reason: prior to the time that we went to school, that would be acceptable. But if you looked at it over the years, you could see it declining. As society changed, Black people didn’t come into those areas. Because what happened, you had a certain type of Black that was frequenting a lot of those places. And the more middle class Blacks, they wouldn’t frequent those places. So those places kind of went into decline as a result of not having a clientele. And Black people start





moving, particularly during the time when we came of age. So… And then you had integration. And that just, that was really a crush thing.

AW: I think what really happened, as time went by, the generation that used to hang around in this area deceased. The younger generation had a different idea, and started to experiment, and that’s when drugs and things—

	JW:	Arago and Matthis? Let me say this: when they built the original new Lincoln High School, it was placed there for a strategic reason. To draw Blacks toward the north and northeast quadrant of the city of Gainesville, right? Because that’s when 5th Avenue becomes decline, and Pleasant Street becomes decline. Yeah.

	H:	That was our time. That’s what I said. That’s exactly what I said. But, I knew about the plan. I also knew the Gills, the Glovers, the Bartmans, and the people that lived on my side of town. They knew what was going on, and they talked about it. They said, “No way in hell we going to move over there!” And if you looked, those people died on the side of town where they lived at, for the most part. They weren’t going to move in that area. Because the people that lived in the northwest was such that you could not give them a suckerpunch to move out there in that section out there. They had no interest in it. Matter of fact, Mr. Welch went the other direction. For whatever reason—I don’t know the reason. But he been living in that section where Lincoln was, and his house is still over there in the section where—what’s that—

	AW:	Outpeace.



	H:	Yeah. He’s in northeast, right there by Mount Carmel church. He’s right across the street. But he was there thirty years before Mount Carmel even came out





there. Okay? His house, T.B. MacPherson house I think it is, Mr. Norton’s house—those are the only houses out there on that street. Those are the only middle class—

	W:	We were all teachers.



	H:	That’s right. Those were the only—and I think they got together, and decided to get a tract and then break it into parcels and stuff. But those are the only nice houses that were out there.

	D:	Was there cooperative buying, or cooperatives that Blacks had in Gainesville at the time?

	JW:	In buying property? D:	Yeah. Cooperatively?

	JW:	Well, yes. You know—well, yes.



	H:	But it was just among a few people. This wasn’t a commercial thing. This wasn’t where—see, all the people we’re talking about were professionals. They were teachers. And they got together, I’m assuming, and decided they were going to make that move.

	AW:	Now, when they built Lincoln High School, like he said, they was trying to bring the black to one side of town. That’s why Lincoln Estates existed. They was going to build a Black shopping center right behind Lincoln High School. They put that Kennedy Home, all those things there, to lure Blacks into that area. Mmhm. But, then work out. We had a Black swimming pool. All of that stuff, they just waived out after the city where they want to working.





	H:	Okay, but you got to go back further to look at what was going on. And this goes back to what Mr. Welch was talking about, about our public policy. They intentionally built—if you look at Lincoln High School and Gainesville High School, Lincoln High School is older, by at least three years, than Gainesville High School. Might be more than that. But the—when did they start building schools for Black folk that were nicer than schools for White folk first? [Laughter] So, right there, you knew it was a worm in the apple there, somewhere, okay?

So, it was very obvious what had happened there. It was to draw Blacks to the area. Then you got your developers and stuff, and got them to whatdoyoucallit… So, just like he said, it’s very obvious that they wanted the Blacks to go to that side of town. So they really were trying to figure out how to make segreg— another thing going on, also. Brown v. Board of Education. They saw the handwriting on the wall. So, if they get you in one section, the schools are going to be segregated because of housing patterns, okay? And then, that goes to things like what Mr. Welch was talking about here, the young Mr. Welch was talking about Kennedy Homes and stuff, which you all probably don’t even know about. But there was a big public housing project that was built in there, which was really a big mistake. Because those were middle-class Blacks that could afford those houses in there—you know, the middle class is divided into, like, three different groups. So they were lower middle class that those homes whatdoyoucallit. And you don’t put poor Blacks in there with middle class Blacks, if you want it to be successful. That’s the reason it doesn’t exist anymore. It was torn down. Because it became a crime problem.





	JW:	Yeah. Believe it or not, Alachua County school system is becoming segregated again. And it’s because of the policies. They have a policy now where you must attend your neighborhood school. And so, if they don’t integrate the residential areas, they’re—like Magnolia. I’ll tell you about Magnolias today, that was a disappointment because nobody encouraged the integration of Magnolia. And then, that was by design! And you take Duval Elementary School? It’s school about to become all Black again, almost. Yeah. And see, when they built Eastside, Blacks assumed that “Eastside is our school!” The Whites that were in that school, they became dissatisfied, saying that there were too many Blacks, and that diminished the quality of education. And so, they did a study in which they changed the ratio of Blacks and Whites at Eastside. Because Whites were raising hell. “There’re too many Blacks in here!” [Laughter]

	AW:	And another time, too, where they—the grace of what he’s saying—the school bus is again to the point now, they do not bus kids in certain areas, in order to discourage them.

	JW:	Too many damn race about White. [1:49:10]



	AW:	Mmhm. Yep. They were saying, they claimed that they don’t have enough drivers, don’t have enough buses, and all this. And they try to really make it look good by saying that they don’t have enough drivers to make the school run, so therefore they can’t do field trips.

	H:	But, let’s talk about what’s happening in the state of Florida, because that’s really the key to it. Florida has become a Republican state.

	JW:	Yes!





	H:	And, by that, it’s become a racist state. If you look at what’s happening—the state of Florida never had—we can go back to the segregation days of the Democratic party. But Florida never had Republicans running anything until Claude Kirk came along. And then, you had the Democrats still after that—well, you had what’s-his-name—Graham, Collins, and I’m trying to think, a few other governors. Chiles. And what happened is you’ve got all these Republicans that came down from the north. And they settled in central and south Florida. That started changing the character of Florida, from the west Florida element controlling the legislature. So it went to south Florida. But along with the segregationists that were up there in the panhandle for the most part, from Tallahassee on out, combined with the Republicans that were down in south Florida, they got a majority. So, then they took over the state. And what they did is like, they are more like, say, “Oh, we’re Libertarians. And we don’t believe in this, and we don’t believe in that.” So what you had is a state that’s more Republican—or, should I say “racist-thinking”—and those are the people that control the policy up there. If you just look at a little of the television, and particularly if you look at the governor that we got up there now, it’s like a bunch of clowns running the state. They trying to reverse everything. So, desegregation becomes—what, I don’t even know a name for it. But basically, like with the younger Mr. Welch, who is an expert on the busing in Gainesville. He drove a bus here for years. So he knows all about these different neighborhoods, and how this busing stuff works in Gainesville. But basically, what he’s talking about is building Bantustans around Gainesville, or these little pockets of segregation,





and then coming up with a rationale why you can’t run buses, basically, because you don’t have the money, you don’t have enough buses, to be able to do your field trips and things if you going to do that. So, what you getting is a resegregation of the schools in Alachua County, is what you’re getting. And that’s the way it was prior to the time that we grow up. So that’s why we know all about it. Because you had what was called a “consolidated school system” here, where the kids came in for the high school from all of the surrounding areas: Alachua, Newberry, Hawthorne. They came to Lincoln High School, all the Black kids came to Lincoln High School. So that was the consolidation of the whatdoyoucallit. And theoretically—and I think it actually worked—it was supposed to raise the standard of the education of the Black kids, because you can imagine all these Black kids around town in these isolated settings were, you didn’t have enough to form certain type classes and things, you know? But when they consolidated the schools, they had departments, and they had strong departments. So we benefitted from that. And they had good teachers that had specialties, that either knew what they were teaching in these schools. And when you start resegregating, the people who are going to get the least—the least in terms of quality, and in terms of the teaching, the abilities of the teachers, it’s going to be those Bantustans, those areas around where the students are going to come out weak. And, frankly, a lack of caring about the students. If—I’ll give you a good example. You can go to Howard Bishop [Middle School]. And at Howard Bishop, they have two schools in one school. And I don’t think that’s unique to Howard Bishop. They have an academy in there, and if you go to the





academy side of the school, you’ll see that it’s integrated. And it’s a few Black kids in there, but it’s mostly White kids in there. You go to the other part of the school, it’s all Black kids, for the most part, and a few handicapped White kids and stuff like that. But the school is segregated, within the school. You got two schools in one!

	AW:	[Laughter] Yeah! I remember them saying—no, I know what you’re saying, go ahead.

	H:	That, you got one school in there, where the kids are college-bound. I’ve taught there. I know what I’m talking about. And you’ve got another one there where it’s catch what you can. But it’s really two different schools. Now, there might be some areas in there where they cross over. But I’ve talked to students, and they don’t even know kids in that other part of the school, believe it or not. Because they don’t come in contact with those kids. Those kids are college-bound kids.

Okay? And those other kids are over there raising hell and everything, and causing problems, and they’re not going anywhere.

	AW:	Yeah, I have a daughter just left from there. And she was telling me that right today she has a 4.0, and she’s at Eastside. They had said—I know she has told me a number of times, she said, “Daddy, this course is very boring to me. I want something challenging,” and things like that. The whole schooltime, I try to go to the teacher and tell them that, and then you have another class—because she didn’t have that many Blacks in the classroom. She was in the higher grades of students there, and most of them was White. And she said, “Daddy, I don’t have no Black friends!” I said, “You make friends with anybody. Just don’t worry about





what color they are, and you’ll make friends with anybody.” And right today, she’s out there at Eastside, and she’s in the college-bound program, and whether she taking her regular academic courses for high school and college. And she’s telling me the same thing. I said, “Do you make friends with them?” She said, “Yeah.” I say, “That’s where you’ll get your ability to really go on in life, be able to deal with anybody regardless of who they are, or whether they’re on the same level, same page that you are.” But like he was saying, I know that Howard Bishop does have two, an integrated and then a segregated section of the school.

	JW:	Oh, yeah.



	H:	But it’s not by race, though. It’s truly ability. The kids that are in that one side, their ability level is low. Okay? And those other kids, I don’t know where they come in from, I’m almost sure that most of them in that academy are bused in from someplace. But, let me give you a better example: I had a class over at Lincoln Middle School that was really very interesting. It was a music class. And, if you know anything about music and the Arts, usually it’s families that put their kids in there that want more for their kids, okay? I’m in there not paying attention when the kids come in—I was a substitute there—and these kids came in, and I didn’t pay that much attention to them. And then, after the class started, I noticed something very unique. Anybody know what I’m talking about? What?

	AW:	I have an idea. [Laughter] H:	What? Tell me.

	AW:	Most of the children were White.





	H:	No—well, it was some White kids in there. But they were mostly Asian kids! Or foreign kids.

	AW:	Oh, okay. Yeah, yeah yeah.



	H:	All the kids that were in the music program were mostly Asian kids. We may have had a few Indian-Asian kids in there. But, and I didn’t find out where they were all from or anything. But it was just something that caught me one day, because I wasn’t paying attention when the kids came in. I may have stepped out, I may have been in another side of that room, doing something that I had to do in order to prepare for the class. But it was shocking! I went back in the room, and it looked like a class in China I’m teaching, you know? [Laughter]

	AW:	Just to go along with what you’re saying—see, I drove for many years for Lincoln Middle School. All of my kids came out of Buck Bay. The first five or six years, I didn’t have nothing but Asian and White kids on my bus. First five years. And all I saw was nothing but the Asian and the White kids. And then, all of the sudden, one summer, they needed a driver to drive from Kennedy Homes to go during the summer schooling, which was Idlewild. This is the first time that I ever dealt with Black kids. And this same respect that I was experiencing from the Buck Bay kids, it proved me wrong! I got on there that first Monday morning of summer school, and the kids was very rowdy. So I do like I do with the other kids. “Will y’all please sit down in your seat?” They would sit down. I tried that with the Black kids. And, that was like telling them to get a room! [Laughter] So I was out there visiting some peoples one weekend, and excuse my French, I heard these different language, and people would, “I’ll kick your ass! Come here, I’ll whoop





your ass!” and all that kind of stuff. So, the next Monday morning, I pull up there, and somebody comes running on my bus, and running from seat to seat. Started walking in the aisle. So I thought about what I heard that weekend. I told them, I say, “Sit your goddamn asses down!” Now, you ain’t supposed to cuss kids like that. So, they got quiet. You could hear a pin fall. So I went in there and told Dr. Rawls, I said, “Dr. Rawls, I made a boo-boo this morning.” He say, “What happened, Mr. Welch?” I told him just what had happened. And he turned himself around, he said, “Mr. Welch, that’s the only language that they understand. Don’t worry about it, I’ll take care of it.” [Laughter]

	JW:	Arago, that leads me to something. In February of 1970, I was transferred to Newberry High School from A.L. Mebane, which was an all-Black school. And for more than twelve years, I was the only Black that taught a subject like Social Studies. And so, I only had a Bachelor of Arts degree. But I had a White person in my department who had two Master’s. But he was the poorest teacher I ever seen in my life! [Laughter] He had two Master’s. Because he didn’t demand anything of his students. Period after period, when the kids come in his class, he would get them and go to the library, and just stay at the library the whole time.

And the principal of the school happened to have been—and I’m going to say this—what I consider to be a redneck. And he had very little respect for Black teachers. Because one day, a group of White kids got together and formed a conspiracy, went to the office to make a complaint against me, and he came to my classroom. And he going to reprimand me right in front of my class!

	H:	Who’s that, Pritchett?





	JW:	Pritchett, yeah! And I’m almost ready to curse this guy! And I don’t give a dang what happens to my job! And so, one of the White kids get up and say, “Mr.

Pritchett, that is not true. Mr. Welch did not do such-and-such a thing.” And that’s the only thing that calmed that Pritchett. But anyway, this guy with two Master’s, he taught very few of the college-bound White kids. They came to me. In fact, the whole time that I taught at Newberry, during my entire tenure, the vast majority of my students were White. And the vast majority of Black students would go to this other person with the advanced degrees. Because he didn’t demand anything, and wasn’t teaching anything. One White guy, his name was David Gibbon, I never will forget it. And I often wonder where he is and what he’s doing. He came and said, “Mr. Welch? I want to talk to you.” I said, “Let’s go on back.” No, after he came back. He said, “Mr. Welch, I’m in Mrs. So-and-So’s class. And I’m not getting anything out of it. And I am college-bound. My father is an instructor at the University of Florida. And I know I’m college-bound. And I want to get prepared for college and pursue higher education. Would you care if I were to take, and go to have my schedule changed to come here to your class? Because the kids tell me that you bring the subject matter alive in your class. And that’s the kind of teacher I want to be exposed to.” I said, “David, you go right ahead and add me to the schedule.” And David graduated as the valedictorian of the class. And the night of his graduation, he brought his mother and father to me. And his mother just grabbed his hood, and said, “Mr. Welch, thank you!

Thank you! David used to talk about you all the time.” And so, I appreciate that. Coming from Whites.





	D:	So what do you think the problem is with the education system now?



	JW:	Well, I wouldn’t want to be in the education system now. I wouldn’t want no part of it. And even when I went into teaching, I did it temporarily as a measure to accumulate some money, and then I wanted to go back to law school. Because, see, I spent a year at law school that needed rested. And I wanted to go back. In fact, after I didn’t return, the Dean wrote me a letter, wanted to know what had happened. Because I never will forget, one day, in a Constitutional Law class, instructor asked the question, “What is the basis of American citizenship?” And the vast majority of students he called upon would say, “The 14th Amendment.” And he goes, “No. What is the basis of American citizenship?” “14th Amendment.” But now, the 14th Amendment deal with a whole lot of things. Right? It deals with equality and all this sort of thing, and more than just a definition for citizenship.

And so he got to me, and he said, “Mr. Welch, what is the basis?” I says, “Section 1 of the 14th Amendment.” He said, “Well, I’ll be darned. We have only one citizen in this classroom!” [Laughter]

	H:	There’s not another section that deal with citizenship?



	JW:	And then, I was another thing about this thing was Indiana. During the time of [19]54, I was the only Black freshman law student in the state. The only Black.

	H:	See, you got to say something about Indiana, though. Because, today, Indiana is like a Republican state. But during that time, I don’t know what was going on in Indiana, but I know a lot of teachers would go to Indiana to study. So, something was going on in Indiana which I’m not aware.





	JW:	Well, I’m going to tell you about Indiana. One thing, now—now, they specialize in testing, and believe in testing. And then, doing research. Because we had a principal by the name of Oliver Jones. He came along down with me, too. And he had the habit of saying, “Research says such-and-so.” And that’s the Indiana quality in him. And I believe strongly in that, too. Because, you take for example reading. I believe in reading. I know you all know showed me a list of books down there someplace that you had the other day, on controversial subjects, more or less. And I like reading controversy, too. Because you take what—like, The Decline of Democracy in America, or The Closing of the American Mind, or Speak Loud; all those deal with controversy. And I like that kind of thing. And a lot of people don’t read about there’s a decline in intelligence in America, but there is! There is, and no doubt about it!

	H:	Well, we know we going down in the scores, in comparison to international scores!

JW:  And here’s the thing about it, Matthis: you take the quality of education offered even in our institutions of higher learning today. I don’t think it is what it should be. And that has to do with University of Florida, too.

	H:	Yeah, but, at the same time, you’ve got to say, though, we don’t necessarily have our best people becoming college professors. The best people, a lot of the time, are going to things like Wall Street, or maybe going into computers, and maybe business or something. So the minds that we’re getting in education might not be the best minds in the society. And, where I think in the past, we had some of the better minds going into education.





	JW:	Yeah.



	H:	So I think that’s part of the change in the society.



	JW:	And you made the point that the students from the University of Florida.



Downtown, and in the jukes. In fact, downtown now is nothing but jukes. And they’re down there until two, three, four o’clock in the morning. Now, that tells me that the instructors are not making any demands on these students! Because if they did, you’d be home burning the midnight oil! And I believe in the idea of making students burn the midnight oil. Anyway, worser that it ought to be, too.

Because I had all this papers and whatnot to grade, and things of that sort. But I don’t mind doing it. Because I believe, for example, as a teacher, a senior high school teacher, that my job was to prepare students for furthering their education, more than anything else.

	H:	J, J—I don’t want to change the subject, but go back to Indiana for a minute.



Because there were certain schools that Black teachers would go to. And I’m not aware of all the ins and outs of this. But I know Columbia Teachers’ College is one of the places where they would get Master’s, I know Indiana was one of the places. But some of these schools in the northern states were segregated. That’s why I’m trying to get Mr. Welch to—

	JW:	Okay, I know where you’re going, Matthis, I know where you’re going.



	H:	Iowa was another place where Blacks would go. But there were only a few places where Blacks in those days—like, we talking the [19]50s and early [19]60s—could go to get an advanced degree.

	JW:	Matthis, yes. You take Columbia University—





	H:	It was Teacher’s College, it wasn’t a whole university.



	JW:	Mmhm, and the school in Massachusetts… There were some schools that were very liberal toward Blacks. And in fact, they would accept mediocrity from Blacks. And so, Blacks had a tendency to want to go there because of that. Mmhm.

	H:	Now, I want to differ with Mr. Welch on one of these: they would—because a lot of these teachers became good teachers after they went to these institutions. So, I think that some of them were in the business of improving the quality of the education that Blacks had. I don’t want to think that all of them were just mediocre institutions.

	JW:	T.B. was an example. T.B. went to Columbia. But I considered T.B. to be a good teacher. But now, they would accept—and Matthis, something else, too. You take many of our so-called Black colleges right now. I think they tolerate mediocrity more so than many other schools. Because I can’t understand what you and I discussed before. I can’t understand why Black kids would take and leave the state of New York to come down here to go to Bethune-Cookman College, or Florida Normal, or Florida A&M—and here, the state of New York offering junior college as public education! And you get two years of college free, and don’t have to pay for it. Why in hell would I want to come to Florida A&M?

	H:	Okay, I can discuss that from a professional point of view, having been a New York City teacher for a number of years. There’s a lot of things that go on in these cities, and a lot of it has to do with kids feeling alienated from the institutions themselves. New York City quiet as a cat, has a high number of Jewish teachers that have traditionally had very little interest in the kids. That the





labor union provided jobs, and people came in—and let me give some examples of what I’m talking about, because I don’t want to make an indictment and not have any evidence there. I remember, as a young teacher there, the school’s principal was Jewish, and most of the teachers were Jewish. Kids would be out on the playground and start fighting. I’d walk over, and when I stopped the fight, the teachers would say to me, “You might get injured. Don’t go over there. Don’t get involved in that. The principal probably wouldn’t support you if you got hurt or something. And you probably will end up losing your job trying to do the right thing.” So, I noticed an attitude among teachers in these—particularly in New York City—but this attitude often in urban places, where the teachers had very little interest in the kids as a human being. But much more interested in collecting the dollar. So, I think that, talking to a number of kids over the years and things, they felt alienated. Because they didn’t have Black teachers in these institutions. So, I think, often, when they would go to some of these Black schools, it would be for—not necessarily for the reason that they were lower in whatdoyoucallit, but they have a sense of, they’d talk to other kids that were going to these schools, and they felt like they would be wanted in these places. Okay? And all these places were not mediocre in their teaching. Because a lot of these Black teachers had gone through the school of hard knocks, and they really wanted to prepare kids to be tough. So, I can appreciate what Mr. Welch is saying. But I think some of it was quite different. And I think you’ve got to go on a case-by- case whatdoyoucallit. But some of the schools, I will grant, are weak schools. But some of them are not that weak. And I’ll give you a perfectly good example: I





personally went to school at Florida A&M. At Florida A&M, I had three students that were friends of mine that went to the Harvard University. They maintained straight-A averages while they were at Harvard. So—that’s not to say we didn’t have students that screwed off and stuff like that, but they had academic probation and things, and they went home at that school. But I don’t know what other schools did. But what I’m saying is that some of these schools were doing their job in terms of preparation. But I do know that prior to the time I went there, they didn’t have the NCAA standards for athletes and things like that. So, some of these schools probably were slacking off and stuff, you know?

	D:	I think part of it, too, is—I’ve got family in New York, and I went to Howard University for my undergrad. I think part of it is, now, these days, you can’t go to school in the area you grew up in, for college, in terms of higher education.

Because a lot of your peers are involved in activities that are either—things that will get you in jail, things that will get you in trouble. So, it’s almost like as a youth today, you have to move out of your community to get a higher education, to be put in that environment. So, I had a lot of family from New York that would end up coming to other universities in Maryland, and—

	JW:	I suppose that you’re aware of the fact, there, Matthis, that all of our Black colleges now in the state of Florida are universities now. Every one of them is a university. Bethune-Cookman is a university. Florida Normal is a university. And FAMU a university. And now—

	H:	But you got to have two colleges to be a university.





	JW:	I would think that they are universities in name only. Not in quality. In fact, I think that Cookman should remain as Cookman College, and I think that Florida Normal remain as a college. Because the university consists of many colleges. And these schools don’t have that many colleges.

	H:	But you have to have two or more to be a university. Have to have two or more. [Laughter]

	D:	I think they said that they should consolidate some of those Black colleges. JW:	Yeah. Well, that’s another thing—and that’s the key word: consolidation.

Because, you take education for us, for example, really improved with consolidation, with the small schools. See, every little community used to have its own individual school. But when you consolidate, you’re able to provide more quality—

	H:	High quality.



	JW:	Right.



	H:	Now, you talking about universities, though, right? D:	The universities, but—

	H:	Now, what he’s talking about is, he’s talking about— D:	Schools just around—

	H:	Yeah, like whatdoyoucallit. With the university system, I wouldn’t be in favor of consolidation. But for different reasons, though. For instance, Cookman ended up being kind of a middle class Black school. And I don’t—let me put it this way: one of those schools was a religious school, I know that for a fact. Another one was people who, for whatever reason, they didn’t want they kids to go to a state





university. And a lot of times, it had to do with girls. They didn’t want they girls at Florida A&M. Because Florida A&M had a bad reputation in terms of…

	JW:	Location. Party town.



	H:	Yeah. Yeah. In terms of, just being in Tallahassee. And so that had something to do with it. So, I think—I don’t know, today, why a person would send they kid to Cookman as opposed to whatdoyoucallit. The tuition is much higher, I think, at Cookman than it is at A&M. So—and then, I think, like, going back to what I was saying before: that feeling of wanting you there is a large part of it. Because I talked to a number of students, and that’s very big, you know? And like I say, in the New York City school system, being a teacher there, a lot of those kids are turned off to education. They’re really turned off. And I don’t want to… Well, let’s do it this way: I lived Bethist Iverson. A lot of people I know in Bethist Iverson were people that worked as secretaries, sometime it was factory workers in my day. These were parents that didn’t know a lot about education. So their kids were going to make up their minds about where they wanted to go to school. And a lot of them were just like what you said, they wanted to get out of New York.

Because they saw that as a bad situation. Now, I don’t want to just say that. I want to give evidence, again. If you go to New York City, and you go to Riker’s Island, and you look at the population in Riker’s Island, I forgot what the numbers actually are. Riker’s Island probably got more kids in Riker’s Island than they have in some of the universities. So these kids were right, in that they knew they were on a bad path if they stayed in the city. Not only that, when I left New York City, fifty percent of the kids were high school dropouts. So, the school system





was not doing a good job at anything. Certainly wasn’t doing a good job at holding the kids there. And they certainly were not—would you pay a business good money for fifty percent success? And that’s what was happening there. Fifty percent of the kids were dropping out. And I’d dare to say it’s probably close to that today. That half of your population don’t even graduate. So, now—if you look at New York City, you’ve got to look at a number of things. A large part of the population are immigrants. They’re either, like, from the Caribbean, Eastern Europe, or the whatdoyoucallit. And then, a lot of Southern families have moved north, looking for better opportunities. But if you look at their kids, their kids have done worse than they probably would have done in the South. Because they wouldn’t have been into a lot of the life that they’re into. And I’m talking about drugs, I’m talking about dope, I’m talking about—

	JW:	Gangs.



	H:	Gang activity. And you could use that in any of these cities in the country. You got to also put that whatdoyoucallit, that gang element that’s coming in from Mexico. You got a lot of kids that are Mexican-Americans, legal and illegal, in the country. And there’s a huge gang element that came in there. So, you have kids in school that they want to model theyself on the pimp, or the drug dealer, or something, rather than on the educator. So you fighting a losing battle a lot of times as the educator. So, there are multiple reasons that kids are failing in the cities and things, in addition to wanting to go to other places to get they education. And I know a lot about the high school dropout problems, because I used to run one of the first schools—not schools but school systems—that were





set up for dropouts. I was the assistant superintendent of the system. We had six schools in six cities. And the reason that the schools existed is because the school systems did not want the kids. The kids were out in the streets, and either they would be in penal institutions. And I did that for at least three years. And I’m talking about San Francisco, I’m talking about Newark, Washington, D.C., San Francisco, and there’s another city—Detroit, Michigan—where all these kids were in the streets. And the local school districts did not want them. They were pushed out from the whatdoyoucallit. And there was another set of schools in New York that were run by huge corporations—this was in the early [19]70s, I think it was—called the “street academies.” And the schools that I was running were modeled on that, with money from the Nixon administration, and from the federal government. But I know that firsthand, since I worked there and saw the problem with my own eyes, you know? Today, the money has been given back to the school districts, and if you look at the Los Angeles school district, the New York City school district, they were able to put these schools in there for—they don’t call them “for dropouts,” but what they do is they interview the students in the high school, and then they tell them, “You only have a certain number of credits, and you’re not going to be able to graduate, and we don’t want you here, basically, but you can go to this school,” which is a school for students that are slow, or who have problems. And all the cities have done that. You’ve got these special schools that are called—what you have in those schools is you’ll have unwed mothers, pregnant girls, and you’ll have kids that have problems with the juvenile justice system. So these kids are loaded in those schools. And, the





schools generally run a morning program, and the afternoon program, which allows the kids to go and work after school. Which is one of the things that make the program popular. And in addition to that, they give them a social worker to work with, and they have a correctional officer—I think that’s what you call them—but people that deal with people who are on probation. Probation officer. So the system has become much more formalized. But all these cities have those kind of programs.

	D:	That brings up a good question, too: I was wondering, what was—I know the city was the one that provided the funding for a lot of these Black schools. Or was it the state? And I was trying to figure out that, was there any additional funds that either came in through out of your personal pocket, or if there were other contributors in the community that would donate funds at these early Black schools.

	H:	You talking about schools that I was running?



	D:	Well, the schools in Gainesville, specifically. Around this area.



	H:	Oh, I don’t know. Mr. Welch would be the expert on that. Where the money came from. He wants to know where the money came from for the Black schools in the county of Alachua, Alachua County and Gainesville. In the early days. He’s talking about when the education—but, you got—

JW:  Well, the taxes, property taxes, were largely, more than anything else. H:  Okay, when it was Union Academy, where did that money come from? JW:  The Union Academy? It was a public school.

H:   From the county. Yeah.





	JW:	Now, I used to wonder about the fact that here at the University of Florida— because I’m very familiar with the University of Florida, by virtue of the fact I had a grandmother that worked for University of Florida from 1909 ‘til 1936. And that’s Margaret Baxter, and then Margaret Veal. And today, Margaret Veal, if she was still employed at the University of Florida in the Agriculture Department, she would be classified as an instructor, and I’ll tell you why: when she was out there in those fields, you would find her—it was an all-boys’ school—and you would find her surrounded by maybe ten or twelve White students. They getting the agricultural theories in the classroom, but the practical application was all under her supervision out there in the field.

	H:	That’s what’s called IFAS today, what she was working in? JW:	Yeah.

	H:	Yeah. The IFAS program is what he talking about. And he—



	JW:	But I have a question, another question. What do you think about this, the idea of evaluating teachers on the basis of student academic achievement, or either lack of academic achievement? What do you think about that idea? This is what they’re doing now! Huh?

	H:	I know.



	JW:	Yeah! I said, “That’s crazy!”



	H:	Well, in a place like Gainesville, it might not be too obvious. But I agree with you, Mr. Welch, that it’s crazy. You take in an urban place, where you got a lot of students of limited academic ability, and—let me, again, go back. I’ve taught in the city of Baltimore, I’ve taught in Los Angeles, San Francisco, and New York





City. And in New York City, I taught in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and the Bronx. These are the places that I worked generally that were the least desirable places. Now, in New York City, there’s a pecking order. You start in these rough areas, and then you move to the better areas. And you move from the middle school to the high school. Okay? I’m not including the elementary schools, that’s a different bag of worms. And New York City has a very specific license that you have to acquire, also. But, when you’re in these ghetto areas, the kids’ ability level, you’ll see, leaves a lot to be desired. And a lot of it has to do with the fact that you can’t even have that teachable moment, because your hands are tied in terms of what you can do to get the students to participate. So, if the students decide that they don’t want to—and they often decide that they don’t want to do what needs to be done to be a student—principal’s not concerned about that. They just leave it, and let it roll. And so, you get students who have been sitting there, listening, and following directions, and doing what you need to do to be able to do to jump through hoops, they’re not able to do it. Now, to get back to what Mr. Welch was saying, if you going to grade the teacher on the basis of achievement of students who are not working, that’s automatically a losing proposition. So, that’s got to be the craziest thing in the world. Unless the teacher has some kind of control as to decide who’s in that class, and the rules, the real rules, about how you going to run the school. Because you don’t have those teachable moments where the kids are going to be learning anything. So that’s just nonsense from the beginning, that’s just a non-starter.





	JW:	Now, Matthis, I do not consider myself to be a Christian. I do not. And I do not consider myself to be an atheist, either. I consider myself mostly to be what I would call an agnostic. And I question—

	H:	Now, what is the difference between atheist and agnostic, now? It seems like a very narrow path! [Laughter]

JW:  Think about it, now: the atheists, they have to usually deny the existence, you see, of supernatural. The agnostic, he asks the question, “I wonder if there is.” Or, “Is there?”

H:  But it sound like you’re walking a tight wire there, just in case. [Laughter] JW:  That’s true.

AW:  Well, don’t you go there, either, doctor!



	JW:	That is true. Because you find right now, that I think people in America now are becoming more and more irreligious rather than religious. And I think that’s an undeniable fact. And the reason for it is, people now open their eyes, and they can think, and they examine things according to reality. Things that are real. And they’re not things based upon myth. Because I think a lot of so-called religion is based upon myth, rather than what’s actual fact.

	M:	Did you always consider yourself an agnostic? Or…?



	JW:	No. Man, in my household? [Laughter] My great-grandmother? Every time the church door open, you had to--my sister, there were only two of us in my family, for us kids, my sister and I—we had to be there!

	H:	You had to show up.





	JW:	Yes, sir! On Sunday, we at Sunday school, Morning Service, Midday Service, and then Evening Service. And we had to be there! And in my household— another thing, too, about my house: my grandmother wouldn’t tolerate cooking in the house on Sunday. No, no! You cooked on Saturday, for Sunday! We had six days for our labor. That was a reality in my household. The only reason we—we had to build a fire, because of that wood stove—was to heat up the food on Sunday. Not cook no food. Unh-uh.

	H:	Now, let me approach this from a couple of different directions. One is that society lightened up. Okay? So, if you look around, this supports—

	JW:	Matthis, let me interrupt you a minute. H:	Oh, go ahead, go ahead.

JW:  Let me share one of the thoughts I had. Now, I admit the fact I wasn’t a preacher because of this fact. Now, I think we took religion out of the public schools, I think that’s the worst thing to have ever happened.

AW:  I agree.



	JW:	Even though I don’t consider myself a Christian, I’ll say it again. And it’s the worst thing that ever happened. Because, it gives, I think, children a sense of reality, and a sense of value, to have something supernatural to look up to. And now we don’t have that. You find now, you’d better not mention things religious in a classroom. You can’t even open a sports competition with a prayer as they used to years ago. Before a football game, I mean, give a prayer and things of this sort. And that’s missing.

	AW:	Well, a lot of places are getting away from that, though.





	H:	Okay, now, can I express my opinion here? I respectfully disagree. I think the best thing they ever could have done is taking religion out of the classroom. You got to—my background is government, and political science.

	JW:	Me too! [Laughter]



	H:	[Laughter] I know that! I know that! That’s why I can respectfully disagree with you! Now, let’s look at something else: what’s happened—now, we a European culture, basically, in America. If you look at Europe, and you look at it very carefully, you’ll find they preceded us with becoming less religious. I was just in a conversation with a friend of mine that lives in Europe a few days ago, and we were talking about this very subject. And I’ve seen the statistics. This is a world— in which you could put Europe and the United States—this is a worldwide pattern, where people are becoming less religious. I’m not sure if you all are aware, but most of these European churches get money from the government.

That’s why the buildings are still there. But in terms of people going to the church? And what my friend called me about, is he was, his kids were either going to be bat-mitzvah, or they were going to join the church. And he wasn’t interested in his son joining the church. And he was asking me, “How do I approach this with my son?” And he wanted to carry his son on a vacation where this time of the year, the kids were becoming, whatdoyoucallit, members of the church and stuff. Because what he’s trying to do is divert his attention, tell him that’s not that important at this point. But what he really wanted to do was get his son the opportunity to make his own decisions when he become a young man.

But Europe preceded the United States. I forgot what the actual numbers are.





But there’s very little real church attendance in Europe other than around holidays and things like that. The level is very low. And then, the United States, the same thing, basically, has happened in the United States, where people become less religious. Now—and this undergirds what I’m talking about—I think the people need to be able to make decisions about their life separate from what I call mumbo-jumbo. You find, if you find a lot of Black people that read a Bible, they’ll sit there and read the Bible. And they use the King James Version of the Bible, which is very confusing. They don’t even know what the hell they reading! And they’ll come out with an interpretation, if you get the English version and you actually interpret it, you’ll find out that they were totally wrong what they were telling you. I’ve sat in churches where I’ve heard ministers say things that weren’t—they would try to use parables from the Bible. It was totally wrong! I’ve seen them go both ways with these things. Well, you don’t need mumbo-jumbo when you explaining things. People need to understand clearly what’s really going on. So, these parables, I think, is a bad thing a lot of the time. The Bible as a book of literature is fine. But not something for people to whatdoyoucallit. And I’m not in favor for people not following Christian values. That’s not what I’m saying. I’m against people being confused. Now, the other thing, problem you have here—what you going to do about the Muslims? What are you going to do about, I’m talking about a society that’s a multiple society, where you’ve got people with all kind of beliefs. If you’re going to force them into Christianity, I think you’re making a big mistake, because you’re going to have conflicts down the road. So, if you keep education separate from religion, and you support





ethical and moral values, I think you’re on a much safer ground than pushing religion. Let people believe whatever the hell they want to believe.

	JW:	But Matthis, now, I think religion instills the sense of righteousness in the minds of people, too.

	H:	Yeah, but what’s religion, J? What’s religion—



	JW:	But now, on the other hand, what you mentioned about the King James Version.



Now, this is something that was written as a result of the dictate of a king! And so, now, it may not have a source of—what do I want to say? Of something Almighty.

	H:	Yeah, I’m not against the King James Version. I’m against ignorance. People that purport to be ministers, and they using that—

	JW:	Oh, yeah! And they will take things out of isolation! H:	Yeah! Oh, I’ve seen it a million times!

	JW:	To prove a point. H:	Yeah.

	JW:	And I want to sit there with my minister, and I want to make notes here, of where you get the things, so if I’m going to go back and get that Bible, I want to read this in context. And see that it doesn’t mean the same thing that you saying to me.

	H:	Yeah. But let me go a step further, as one who’s spent time living in another culture. What am I going to do about those people that don’t believe, and don’t even know what Christianity is? They have Buddhism. They have Shintoism.

They have Islam, as their religion. Am I to just discount their belief system? No!





	D:	Just to play Devil’s Advocate: they say some of the best schools in the country tend to be Catholic schools. And you know, Catholic schools very much stick to this idea of keeping religion in the school system. I was going to say, what do you feel about that?

	H:	You mean, personally?



	D:	Just in general, how do you feel what that is? Because you’re saying one of the best things they did was to take religion out of the schools. But at the same time, it’s Catholic schools that are some of the best schools out there.

	H:	If people want to spend their money to put they kids in those schools, that’s fine.



Because you supporting the tax system for the public school system, and then you’re paying money, tuition, for your kids to go to those schools. So, that’s the value judgment that they’ve made. I don’t—I’ve had teachers that were from the, what’s the teaching order in the Catholic Church? There’s an order within the— these are the societies within the church. They are Dominicans, and then there’s something else. And there’s one teaching order, I can’t think of what it is. But this new Pope is one of those that came out of this tradition within the church.

Because there are different schools within the church. But I don’t have anything against them. I just, I think the problem came up when President Kennedy became president. He made it clear that he was not going to push church doctrine as president. And so, that’s where the break comes, in my mind. That we don’t need doctrine. Like, when I teach, I don’t teach about—I talk to my kids about—there’s a section where if you’re a Social Studies teacher, you’ve got to teach the different religions of the world. That’s what I teach: the different





religions of the world. You are left to believe whatever you want to believe. I don’t care. That’s not my whatdoyoucallit. I’m not going to push Christianity on you, or any other religion on you. But I’m going to try to expose you to something other than Christianity, because that’s a part of the curriculum in most states. I think we going to get ourselves in a whole bunch of trouble. Because we going to have each—what we going to have is, little fights going on—not little fights, big fights. And it’s already going on with the Republican Right. You know? That, “Oh, you got to believe!” Who the hell are you to tell me what I got to believe? Kiss my Black ass! You know?

	JW:	You don’t indoctrinate—[Laughter]



	H:	No, but that’s what’s happening, when you start putting, on the courthouse square you start putting religious edifices. The next thing is, the Muslims want to put theirs there. Then a Buddha there. The next thing is that the Jew want the candelabra there, or whatever the hell it’s called. But we don’t need that! The system that we have is a very good system! Keep it separate! If you want to, like, promote education? When the kids leave school, do what the Catholics do—put a bus there and take they ass to the damn Catholic school! And you can teach all the religion you want to teach! You know? And they can come out and believe what they want to believe! But you making a big mistake when you have a society that’s going to be clashing on religion.

	JW:	Matthis—



	H:	By the way—let me just finish this here—look at what’s going on with the Sunnis and what’s that other group of Muslims? The Shiites. That’s where you going!





You know? And these are people that have the same belief system, but I wash feet, and I gift you, and whatdoyoucallit, so I’m better than you. Who the fuck cares about it like that? If that’s what you center your life around, that’s a wonderful thing for you. But I want to go to the beach, I want to make money, I want to pursue scientific interests like studying what’s going on in outer space or something. I’m not interested in fighting about what you believe! That’s your thing, you know? And the pursuit of happiness, what people want to do with their life. Not you trying to impose what you think is important on people’ lives.

	JW:	Okay, that’s the source of all these wars you have going on through the years.



Right now, you—



	AW:	Okay, y’all guys have had your say about religions. All right, I am an ordained minister. The Bible is, the way I see it, it’s just like a jigsaw puzzle. You got to know where to find the continuation of what you have read in the Bible. They do not continue with they whole thought in one parable. There is a reference most Bible, a good Bible, will give you the continuation of what they are talking about it. Because they didn’t sit down and write it at one time. Another thing: Christianity is like this, and any Bibles that tell you are knocking at the door. And it’s up to you to open up. And then He say that there’s some going to receive, and some not going to receive. And what he mean by that, the Holy Bible is a spiritual feeling. It’s not held in flesh or whatever you can see. And you got to deal with it, and the Spirit, in order to get the full understanding of what the Bible is interpreting to—

	JW:	Arago, you keep saying “the Bible.”





	AW:	Uh-huh.



	JW:	There’s many different Bibles for different religious groups. There’s the Koran and all this sort of thing. Now, I have studied and compared seven of them on the same subject. And so we can’t say “the Bible.” And then, you must remember that the King James Version of the Bible that you talking about right now, it was dictated to by a king, the King of England! And—

	AW:	Okay, true. But before he came along—



	JW:	And there was the so-called “Christian church.” And so we can’t speak about “the Bible.” That’s the thing, in my opinion.

	AW:	King James is not the one that wrote the entire Bible. These were—many different people—

	H:	King James didn’t write it. He had people to write it. AW:	Yeah.

	H:	And he had certain things he wanted interpreted in a certain way.



	JW:	That’s it, that’s right, say what he wanted to do. In other words, for example, this, Arago: part of the King James Version of the Bible, a man had the right to divorce his wife if she could not bear for him a male heir. And you think right now in reality, myself: I would never agree with they wife, that we aren’t going to have any children. And if we had children, I don’t want a whole house full of girls! You know what I mean? If, for example, my wife, we were going to have children, and she have two girls, I’m going to think a hard while if I want to try to get another one or not. [Laughter] Because you know what? I want to perpetuate myself. And I can’t perpetuate myself through females. Right?





	AW:	Who determine life? The male or female?



	H:	That’s not important, what—don’t answer! Don’t answer the question! [Laughter] He knows what you going to say! I know what you going to say!

	AW:	I want to see if he knows. H:	He knows!

	AW:	Who determine life? Where does life begin at?



	H:	He wants to talk about the egg, J. He wants to talk about the egg, and the fertilization of the egg.

	JW:	We talking about the egg. Who—



	AW:	Well, anyway, life began with the male. H:	Oh, no, no, no, no.

	JW:	No, you can’t say that.



	AW:	Male carry life. Woman just carry egg cells, that’s it. Nobody can’t tell me nothing different!

	H:	J, don’t argue, don’t argue! He just said nobody can tell him different! Leave it!



Just let it lay!



[People talking over each other]



	M:	I mean, we’re talking here also about having to do with multiple religions in America today, having to be able to socially deal with that. In 1950 and earlier Gainesville, what was that like religiously? I mean, you’re not dealing with the same issues in the same way. When did it become possible to become agnostic in Gainesville?





	H:	Now, you’re dealing with a man who is a traditionalist here. Okay? He hasn’t changed. That’s what Gainesville was about. The philosophy that he has. That was Gainesville. And it was a Black version and a White version. And the Black version was even more conservative than the White version!

	D:	But I heard the Nation of Islam came into Gainesville at one point. H:	It didn’t make a big dent in Gainesville. No.

	AW:	[Inaudible question] D:	The Nation of Islam.

	H:	Islam. Muhammadism. AW:	Mm-mm. No.

	M:	When was that?



	H:	I don’t know. But they ought to tell you.



	M:	[19]60s. [Apparently confirming from someone else’s inaudible statement.]



	H:	You still got Muslims running around selling pies in Gainesville. All you have to do is go over to the northeast section where the railroad track used to be.

	AW:	And they’re selling papers and all that. I started to be a Muslim one time. I went to market, and this had life from X Street, on 145th in New York.

	H:	125th and Lennox.



	AW:	Yeah, right. The guy made some really strong points. But I mean, I wouldn’t never follow him, because to me, it was very radical. Remember we used to go and listen to him? But see, if you notice, even back in the Biblical days, there always have been woes about religions. Always have. And as of today, that still exists. So, there’s nothing new under the sun.





	JW:	I had to go to leader youth to see if they ruled by divine right, that God, for example, endowed them with the right to rule and all this sort of thing. And I would imagine that determined that little people to me. And that is, Matthis, our background is European. Do your people know to my Black African heritage—I don’t have no damn African heritage! No, my heritage is just as European as yours! It is! Because, everything I believe, and everything I’ve been trained, have been exposed to, was inspired by Europe! Everything! And there’s no doubt about that. But a lot of people don’t believe in that, Matthis.

	H:	Well, let me personalize it. One of the more interesting things that happened to me is, when I went to Europe as a youngster—I think I was in my twenties when I first went to Europe—and there were a lot of Africans in Europe at that time. And I don’t know if they were just immigrants, or tourists, or what. But I think they were both. And I remember a lot of experiences that I had. In Europe, touring, the people that I was closest to on a intellectual level were not Africans, interestingly enough. They spoke English very well. But Americans—not even Europeans. We would sit down and have conversations and things, and I noticed that we tend to gravitate to each other. So, in a foreign environment, the people with similar values, and similar culture, they tend to come together. And I noticed this—I would go to different countries and things in Europe. And I noticed that the Whites would come and gravitate toward the Black American, and the Black Americans would gravitate toward the White Americans, you know? And wanted to exchange things. Like, “I’ve been to this country, I’ve been there.” And Europeans were, their minds were someplace else. The Africans, their minds





were definitely someplace else. They’re speaking another language, also. But this supports what Mr. Welch was talking about, that our culture is a European culture, with the African something and other, I don’t know what you want to call it, okay? But it’s primarily European culture.

	AW:	To go back to your question about religions in Gainesville, back in the early days, religions was a thing of Gainesville. Now, it has declined a whole lot. I mean, churches is nothing like they used to be back in the days. There’s a lot of things churches used to do back in the days they don’t do no more.

	JW:	The Missionary Baptist was the strongest thing, I think, in Gainesville, for a long time. You take right now, for example—I just can’t imagine, on University Avenue, you know the First Baptist Church there? They going to tear that building down. I can’t imagine that building being torn down! That was the only thing I can remember, when walking from miles downtown, passing by that church.

	H:	Right there by that Ho-Chair?



	JW:	Yeah, over there!



	H:	The one in front of the Seagle Building. JW:	They have surrounded it with all that—

	H:	Do y’all know what we talking about? The building we talking about is kind of caddy-cornered from the Seagle Building. It’s a brick structure. But that was the First Baptist Church.

	AW:	It was a big one, too.





	H:	But now, you got to go back and look at, historically, the First Baptist Church in communities in the South. It usually was the foundation of the community. All your bigshots were members of that church. Now, that particular church, had you seen it in the old days, you would have thought it was probably part of the University of Florida, it was so well-kept. It just so happened that one of my cousins maintained that church, so I know that church intimately. Fuller. Leroy Fuller was the custodian there, and took care of that church. So I would go in and out of that church with him. There were no Black people that were members of that church! Okay? [Laughter]

	M:	Just custodians?



	H:	He was the custodian. Yeah. He took care the church. I mean, he was there all the time, every day. And that church was used for more than a church, also; they would have meetings and things there.

	AW:	But see, for a long time, all your religions in Gainesville—



	H:	It used to have a big front yard to it, too. I don’t know what happened other than Fifth Avenue—

	AW:	University Avenue—



	H:	Yeah, University Avenue opened up. But it was a big, beautiful lawn there. Right in front of there.

	D:	The apartment complex has— AW:	The parking lot, all that parking—

	H:	Yeah, that was the side for the church, there. And the back of it went all the way through to—





	AW:	Masonic Street.



	H:	It went up into the whatdoyoucallit, it was Oil Company, didn’t it? Yeah. It was a huge piece of property there.

	AW:	Yeah.



	H:	And they had big pocketmarks there. AW:	And before, too.

	H:	And you went there on a Sunday, that place was crowded!



	AW:	But see, now, back in them days, you probably wouldn’t go to a White church. [Laughter] Yeah.

	H:	Who wouldn’t go?



	AW:	A Black wouldn’t go to a White church.



	H:	But this church I went to weddings in. I went to this church, because I had— AW:	When was that?

	H:	This was when I was in high school. I went to a wedding in that church. We had friends that were—see, that’s the telephone company’s tower, there, by the way. Behind it. But I had friends that went to that church, so we went there. But I think there were exceptions and things. But we were—see, I think what happened, the wedding we went to were friends of our family. And it may have been the Thomases or somebody, but I don’t remember who it was. But we were friends of theirs, so we were invited to come there. Now, you look around, we were some of the few Black people that were there at that affair! But these churches were segregated, there’s no question about that.





	JW:	Matthis, when I was the chairman of direct action for CORE and NAACP, I would call White ministers and let them know that we were planning on coming to worship with them. Arago, I sent you, you and your boy that’s a judge now, to the church.

	AW:	Mickle.



	JW:	Mickle. I sent y’all to Presbyterian Church. When I told the guy they were coming, he say, “Yes, let them come on!” And nobody denied us attending.

	H:	Yeah. What we talking about here is two different things, though. We talking about an era of change, as opposed to the way things were. Now, going back, talking about religion, it wasn’t just Gainesville in terms of Black people being conservative. And I mentioned this before: that Black people were more conservative than the Whites. But I think a lot of times that guidance was poor guidance. Think about this: you got a whole community on Sunday that, I’m not even sure they were allowed to show movies in the theaters in a lot of cities on Sunday. So, the church had everything. You could go to the movies the other six days of the week, but Sunday? There was no theater in a lot of these communities. So, you had no entertainment. The entertainment, basically, was going to listen to the minister. So, I think a lot of that—and this goes to your point, Arago—created that power base in the church. You got to remember, you got people that came out of slavery where they were forced to do things, and then the ministers were kind of like leaders in the community, so they got turned on to religion, and you got Black people saying—and you have them today—“Take everything, and give me God.” Lot of people say that.





	JW:	[Laughter] Yeah.



	H:	“Give me money, and you can take every damn thing else!” Yeah. So— [Laughter] So you really got to sit down and study times and what was going on, that was causing people to believe in a certain way. You know? And then you got to look at blue laws. Some of these communities like Gainesville was a dry county. Okay? So you wasn’t going to the bar, unless you were going to Jacksonville, or going out of town for that kind of activity. So if you put yourself in that time, you can see how thinking changed. And then you start looking at Brown versus Board of Education and after that, where the society and the community became more liberal. People became more liberal in their thinking, whether they wanted to or realized what was happening. Now, like in my family, when we were young, we were kind of like forced to go to Sunday school and church. But, I know I was one of the ones that said, “I’m not going.” But I think families kind of lightened up on the kids, and it became more optional as time went on. And also, there were families that, they were AME Methodist, the whole damn family was AME Methodist. And you start seeing people become Baptist, and Episcopalian, where people started breaking out of those heavily philosophical—they were Christians. That’s all that really mattered. That they believed in something, generally, you know? So, the whole world changed.

Okay? So to answer your question, I don’t know if it was you, talking about what it was like, people were very doctrinaire. Now, I’m a good person to talk about this. And I’ll tell you why: I had an aunt who was a minister, I had a grandfather on my father’s side that was a minister, on my mother’s side I had a father that





was a minister. So I came from a tradition that was steeped in religion. But it had very little effect on me, other than to not be interested in it. Because people spent their Sundays—and often, these people would go to church during the week.

Like, we talking about the Holy Rollers there earlier a minute; Mr. Welch and I were talking about it Reverend Anderson’s church. These people went to church in the middle of the week! And there were also churches right here in Gainesville that had prayer services—and still do have prayer service—during the week.

Then they would have—this I remember very well—people would go to church on Sunday morning, 11 o’clock service. They would go back at night, for service at eight o’clock or something! You know? I mean—let me just make this point here. You got to look at the people. If they were studying religion that much, when the hell were the kids getting a chance to study academics? And were the Black people the worst people in the world? Did they need all that damn religion? I would submit to you, no. They didn’t need all that. Okay? So, I think that—I see religion in this way. Any religion. Which is why I laugh at these things that go on in the Middle East. When you driving your car, you have a compass. And the compass is aimed at true north. I think religion should aim people in a direction.

There are people that have chemical imbalances, there are people that just fucking crazy. There are others that are looking for something to grasp on and believe. But I think religion should be that true north that should determine your values and how you treat—because that’s what life is about. It’s about living with people. And being a social creature in that structure. And I think that’s what you’ve got to do in terms of the world. People have to have a worldview. You





can’t just take a narrow view and say, “I don’t care about this, that, or the other.” But you have to have a concern about the world, where’s the world going? And today, that prime example would be that guy in North Korea that want atomic bomb so he can bomb the United States. Well, we don’t need idiots around like that. You know? Because, it shouldn’t be about bombing people and killing people. It should be about how can we survive as a people? A world people—not just in one country. In the world. Because if it’s not about that, okay, we going to kill all of us almost any damn where. Because all you need is a couple of bombs to go, and we all in trouble.

	JW:	Now, to me—and I believe this, that Christianity should be, according accepted to me, is a way of life. And you must live it every day in all of your endeavors. And if you don’t do it, then you are a pretender, a hypocrite. Now, for example, I know other people in my family—my own daddy, my own father. He was a minister. He was a hypocrite! He’s the one that caused my mother to become almost a female dictator in our relationship towards men. And I dare the church right now, in Belvin Heights, in Tampa, Florida, that’s my daddy’s name there on the corner stone. He founded that church, built that church. But he wasn’t worth a shit!

	H:	Yeah. But J, what was the thing that caused him to think the way he thought about religion? Was it enlightenment, or was it ignorance?

	JW:	Ignorance.



	H:	That’s what—okay. You just answered the question. [Laughter] And I think that’s a lot of what guides people in religion today. A lot of the—if you look at the Black





ministers, and you look at the education level, nine times out of ten, if they’re very conservative, their education level is rather low.

	JW:	Yeah.



	H:	You look at Dr. King, and you’ll see he was a man that was highly intelligent. And the ministers that are preaching an enlightened gospel are those who are rather well educated today. And you can go and look up and down the line. If they—the two of them go hand in hand. If they went to theological school, and they got a decent education, what they teaching the members of the church is quite different from the ones who are very conservative.

	JW:	And I can’t understand this, Arago: you got more doctors now improving now as preachers who never been nowhere near a theological seminary.

	H:	Mail order! [Laughter]



	JW:	And I can’t understand that. AW:	That’s true. I know.

	JW:	Edward Waters issued honorary doctors; Bethune-Cookman College, honorary doctors. And they, “I’m Dr. So-and-so, and so-and-so.”

	H:	No work. You in the work environment, yet no work involved. AW:	But see, that doctorate is a certificate. That’s all.

	H:	Well, I think you have to always examine the credentials of people.



	AW:	You’ll see a minister most of the time got, let’s say they got a doctorate: that doctorate is a doctorate, a certificate they have given that authority to say, “Dr. So-and-so,” and so on. And that was a certificate, not a degree.

	JW:	But academically, it tend to feel like a seminary.





	AW:	That’s not like a person would go to get a doctoral degree in some field or another—

	H:	We at a place where people understand that very—no, I mean, we in a setting that people know about that. That don’t need to be explained. This gentleman’s a PhD candidate. This gentleman. So, they understand what we talking about. So, I think we’ve exhausted it, is my point. [Laughter]

	D:	Well, I had a related question about, I guess, the role of religion in terms of the Civil Rights Movement in Gainesville. You were saying that the Nation of Islam didn’t last too long here, and I know CORE and NAACP were a lot more—they seemed to be a lot more active than SCLC and some of the more religious-based Civil Rights organizations.

	AW:	Okay. I personally feel that those two organizations—CORE and NAACP—would seek help from the student body of the University of Florida is what made it strong. And then, the two organizations had different view about going about doing things. He [JW] was one of the leaders in that, too. He was in the middle of the NAACP, and he was president of CORE one time, as well as I was. And the NAACP passed by-laws that you had to abide by before you would take any kind of action. CORE, they get together in somebody living room, and make a decision what action’s going to take, and just take off and humble just go about doing it. And that was the basis of most of those issues, and nine time out of ten, most of the members was a member of both organizations.





	H:	And you missed his point. Because that’s not what he was asking. He was asking about SCLC as compared to those organizations—why SCLC didn’t get a foothold here in Gainesville.

	AW:	I just told you: the basis was the student body of the University of Florida.



	H:	Yeah. The answer, the answer, though, is SCLC had much more religious orientation to it. And you got to look at the people who were involved in the organizations here. This was a democratic process, in working in Gainesville.

	JW:	Who is this guy? [Apparently looking at image projected on the screen.]



	H:	These people were in these organizations because they wanted to be in these organizations.

	JW:	[Inaudible 3:07:56 as H continues talking.]



	H:	Also, if you look at the ethnicity of the people, a lot of the students were Jewish students. And then you had a bunch of other White kids that were of varying backgrounds, I think. So, I think that is the answer that—these organizations were not religious at they core. They were much more on a humanitarian basis, and equality is what ran the organization. One man, one vote. And we would sit down for long periods of time, and talk about what strategies and things we wanted to pursue, and what targets we were going to whatdoyoucallit. So, I think that was quite different from SCLC. SCLC, I think, down in St. Augustine was strong. And I don’t know for what reason, but I do know that, like, they had demonstrations and things down here, and I know that Governor Peabody of Massachusetts’ mother was arrested down in St. Augustine. So, I think the orientation was quite different. But I don’t know St. Augustine and the politics of





St. Augustine that well. But I do know it was more wealthy White people that had power down there, and I have a hunch it had a Christian edge to it also. Now, we went down there and helped. But we were not—that was not our show down there in St. Augustine. That was SCLC, I think. Much more down there.

	JW:	Now, there were people that had different views about the achievement of equality, and on the Civil Rights, and all that sort of thing. Some believed that there should be a little violence automatically involved in it, because violence would tend to focus attention on the departments. You see? Because you take me for example, now. I subscribe to it. I mean, no violence and—

	H:	Non-violent.



	JW:	Yeah, and all that sort of thing. And we used to have workshops— H:	What would you do if you get spit on or slapped? [Laughter]

	JW:	Yeah, yeah, and look at it—we had a workshop in Mt. Pleasant church one time. H:	I know!

	JW:	—at this little thing across from the church. But we set up a lunch and that thing. We actually had to watch, “You can’t use”—just catch them, and “pulled on my hair!” and things, you know. Now, I’d be mad as hell if they did that to my hair! [Laughter] [3:10:31—this needs to be audit-edited carefully] And I’m not so sure, in reality, I could have been peaceful! And they taught me how to protect my vulnerable parts of my body and things, and not fight back. Now, I didn’t know whether I could do that or not! [Laughter] Because I’m going to tell you something, Arago: I’m going to call you ten back there, a specific case. We were picketing this large restaurant that had the drive-in thing on University Avenue.





	H:	Mar’s?



	AW:	Humpty Dumpty.



	H:	Humpty Dumpty.



	JW:	Oh, okay. And so, I got together a convoy of cars. I’d send three cars out on the thing where he served out on the curb, then I’d send three or four inside there, inside the building to sit. And so, the man would be [makes angry noises]. We harassed this guy to the extent that he come out there one day, he cried: “Why the hell don’t y’all just leave me alone?” [Laughter] You know? But eventually, we were more powerful, he had to give in, and accept us there! We deceived a lot of these people on these restaurants, Matthis, by taking, finding us a real light- skinned mulatto. Whites. Send them in—

	H:	Black, you mean Black! [Laughter]



	JW:	Send them in there to eat, at the College Inn and whatnot, to eat, and then have them to leave a note that they were Black and they had been served! [Laughter]

	AW:	But one of the things, I’d really just like to say it, I seen the guy take a mop and put it in the commode, and wring it out, and then come in and put it up in our faces like he was mopping our face with it, to show that we are non-violent. I said, “Lord, if I can just get through this here, I ain’t promise what I’d do in that vicar line.” [Laughter]

	JW:	You right. We used to, one day, I remember one department, had a place on Fifth Avenue, business place. He used to give me sodas by the cases, and give it to my picketers. And so, one day I went to his place to pick up a case of sodas; in my absence, an old, elderly White man walked up to one of my White picketers—





we called him “Shorty”—and he got all up and slapped him, “What you doing with these niggers?” And slapped the hell out of him. Now, if I’d have been there, I’d probably have jumped that old man! Yeah, I’d have probably jumped him! It don’t matter, I’m sure I would jump him.

	AW:	Boy, we had a truck came along when we picketed Humpty Dumpty, that full of cows. The guy stopped right over there at the picket line, and got out and took manure and just threw it all over us. Boy, that was one bad day, you know that?

	H:	Are you aware of this place that we talking about? The Humpty Dumpty? M:	I mean, I’ve heard of it. I—

	AW:	Okay, Humpty Dumpty used to be there where Krispy Kreme doughnut. Used to be a large restaurant there.

	H:	Very prominent place. Very prominent, very bougie. A nice place to go to eat.



	AW:	And noontime was they busy time. Cars sometimes can’t get in there. Or either you can’t walk in, have to wait outside.

	H:	Well, one of the things y’all probably don’t have an appreciation of, but the corner of 13th and University Avenue? That used to be a hot spot, there. And everything within three blocks either way—maybe more than that—that was, in addition to the center of town, downtown, that was another center sort of for the university.

You had your drug stores, you had What-A-Burger, you had all these really nice places, like, particularly eating establishments on the north side of University Avenue going toward downtown. There were a lot of nice places there. Yeah.

	AW:	Matter of fact, right there across from Krispy Kreme that was the first Burger King in Gainesville.





	H:	A little further down, past Louie’s Seafood, wasn’t it? AW:	No, right there. It used to be right next to Louis—

	H:	Oh, okay, on the other side. On the other side of Louie’s.



	AW:	Yeah, where that car wash is at. Because we used to walk there a lot of times to get French fries.

	H:	Yeah. Yeah. Was that What-A-Burger?



	AW:	No, What-A-Burger is further down. That was Burger King.



	H:	But, to go back to the theme that they were talking about: it was hard to be a Civil Rights worker, because you had to subject yourself to a willingness to take punishment. Because, particularly in the early days, you knew that that was what it was going to be about, you know? You’re going to get scalded, or you’re going to get food thrown in your face, you’re going to get people spitting in your food.

But you knew it was abusive treatment of some sort that was coming up. And the people, the early people, they the ones that went through a lot of this. In the later days, we weren’t so much about getting served as it was showing up and causing them to have to close the business down or something. More like tactics to show them the road. But, in Gainesville, I don’t think it was as bad as it was some places, in terms of getting things to happen. Because the students particularly, they were much more political. Because they got involved with, like, city council, they got involved with the student government here at the university… So, I think in other places you had some real hardened attitudes, but here, students made a lot of difference in terms of what happened.

	JW:	Yeah.





	H:	Go ahead, J.



	JW:	And another thing, Matthis: the Civil Rights organizations were dependent largely upon young people.

	H:	Yes.



	JW:	Young people. And these young people had more nerves than these old ones. [Laughter] Because, you take for example, the older people, “Don’t you go near White folks!” And then these younger ones, and then, those Whites that were with us, I mean, they were really with us! Yeah, because I’ll never forget several out there that had doctor degrees, and they going there like they lost they jobs, they wanted other place. And would you have admitted to knowing something? [3:17:07]

	H:	Along those lines, I could tell you some personal ones—I’m not going to go into those, though. [Laughter] But, I know of a lot of Black people that were anti- integration, believe it or not!

	JW:	Oh, yeah!



	AW:	Oh yeah! Yeah.



	H:	And this’ll really surprise you when you think about it, the number of Blacks that were against integration. And it was at their own detriment. And I couldn’t understand then, and I don’t understand now, what formed their attitude other than fear. Because when we were doing demonstrations and things, I remember a number of Black people saying, “Don’t y’all go down and bother them people at the Theatre,” and the only thing I can think of, is you have to think back to Emmett Till, and what happened there. I think that—not Emmett Till’ case per se,





but that kind of thing happening throughout the South. And prior to the Civil Rights era, there were a lot of bad things that had happened throughout the South. And I think that formed the thinking of that older generation Mr. Welch is talking about. How they looked at the world—their worldview. That every time they would see young Black—and White—kids doing things, they would think back to lynchings. And—who were those fellows, J? I can’t think of what they were called. Do you remember those brothers or something?

	D:	Scottsboro.



	H:	Scottsboro case. JW:	Yeah, yeah, yeah!

	H:	I think that that kind of thing formed the thinking of the Black community. And it was a horrible case, you know? And those guys were framed, basically. Then you start getting into, let’s see, like the Rosewood-type situation, and then Lynch Hammock down here going out toward Newberry. And that’s just the local stuff. We not even talking about what was going on further north, like in Georgia, and Mississippi, and Alabama, where things were, like, really serious. So… people had a right to think as they thought. But I think you’ve got to take into consideration the Pullman Car porters, and the contributions they made to desegregation. You’ve got to look at labor unions. You’ve got to look at the Black soldiers in World War II and World War I, and the Korean conflict, what was happening there. So I think, if you start looking at the thinking and the things that were causing change to come about, and you’re talking about people that were born during World War II and afterwards as the change agents, you start looking





at something that’s totally different. And we was studying about a lot of this stuff in school, particularly in the Black schools during Black history week. You know? And we had teachers that were veterans of these conflicts and these wars and things that were teaching. And they made sure that we learned those lessons and things. So… I think the time’s made a lot of difference, in terms of thinking of the people that were involved in this stuff. Had it been—if you look at people that were ten years ahead of us, you’d be looking at people who thought quite differently about the world. And that’s where the resistance was.

	M:	Well, and you mentioned lynchings and some of the other violence. I mean, there were some very violent periods in Florida—you’ve got Rosewood, Ocoee… How were these discussed at that time? Did people talk about—

	H:	Well, let me approach it from a personal point of view: it wasn’t discussed in my family. And, something I did, I asked my grandparents—who had to have seen and known people who lived during slavery. They wouldn’t talk about it! And I know that they knew about it, you know? And I remember distinctly talking to my grandmother one day, and she told my mother, “Get this boy away from me, asking me about this kind of stuff!” You know? Because I was interested as a youngster. Like, “Did you see slavery?” And, “Did you know any slaves?” That kind of stuff. Because, what happened is, I had seen pictures in my schoolbooks of people who were not slaves, but were doing sharecropping. And it looked like scenes of slavery to me. So I was curious about their knowledge of it. But in my family, nobody wanted to talk about it. And I suspect that there were a lot of families that were like that. That knew things, but it was so bad that it had caused





a certain kind of thinking in their mind, where they didn’t want to bring it up. And then, they didn’t want the young people to have to face that kind of stuff. And this is evidence of it—like, for instance, if there was a Klan meeting in Gainesville or something, the Black community made sure the kids were in the house. So they were not out in the street and things. So, I think that a lot of it was that they probably were ashamed of what had happened, and they wanted to shield they kids from it. From even knowing about it, you know? But, being the kind of person I was in terms of studying and wanting to know about things, I was studying at a very young age. And the things that they would teach us about— like during Black History Week and stuff—one of the reasons I majored in what I majored in when I went to college, was that—because I was a person that was interested in science, I wasn’t interested in sociology, and psychology, and history, and stuff like that—was that I’d noticed this void during the Civil Rights Movement when Dr. King got busy, that people were totally ignorant about what their rights were in the law. I’d ask people questions, and they—other than the teachers and the librarians, they couldn’t answer your questions, because they were not aware of what had gone on. And the more I dug, the more I saw this as an area of exploration. And law, being an area that you really needed to know about as a group. Because you could see Black people getting taken advantage of all the time. And on the losing end of the stick, because of they ignorance.

	JW:	Matthis, my great-grandmother, it amazed me that she was born in 1852. And she could read. And she’d sit down with the Bible, and just read and read and read. And that amazed me. I said, “Now, evidently, she must have been a house





child or something, where the slave master actually taught her to read.” Because it was amazing to me that she could read.

	H:	But there were a lot of Black people that were able to read, I found out.



Particularly in places like Boston, Massachusetts. Washington, D.C. was a hotbed of free Black people. Philadelphia, also. So, there were areas in the country where people did know how to read and write. So there were things going on where—and we don’t know because we were not there—where people needed, in order to do things for the master, they needed to be able to read. So there were people who knew how to read, and I’m sure they trained other people. So, it wasn’t as—it looked like there was this mass of ignorant people all over the place all the time. There were people that mastered this skill.

	M:	Did your great-grandmother ever talk about growing up, or where she learned any of those skills, or what the—

	JW:	You know, the thing about old people back then is, they would get involved in their “adult conversations.” And you dared not—[Laughter] So you couldn’t ask them a question!

	H:	You could sit and listen. But you couldn’t talk, and you couldn’t ask questions. I remember that. Children are seen and not heard. I remember that—

	JW:	That’s right.



	H:	—from when I was a kid! And that was the law. When they spoke—like, my kids can talk back, and ask questions, and disagree and all that. That was very difficult, particularly in my early childhood. And I’ve seen families that were much worse in terms of the way they treated they kids than my family did. I think my





family was rather liberal compared to some of those families. I think Mary Carter is a good example of what I’m talking about, Arago. She didn’t talk much as a kid. But I think it probably came from her home. Was she in the Holiness Church? I think she was one of them Sanctified kids, wasn’t she?

	AW:	I think so.



H:  Yeah. But, a lot of it had to do with families, and how they treated they kids. But if the family was very religious, you didn’t expect the kid to have too many opinions about too many things.

AW:  You know, some time ago, I did some reading. They said the Black woman was the first learned to read. And as a result of being part of the master’ house. And the wife would take time out to teach her to read. She learned to read before the Black man, then she taught home and taught her man.

	H:	I think it came another way; I think it’s the oral language that came first, because they needed people to be able to communicate and do the things they wanted to do. Then, maybe a note or something to go to the store and purchase these commodities that the White man not had time to do. So, I think it was a gradual process. I don’t think it was, like, every woman that worked in the house knew how to read. But the process, I think you’re correct there.

	D:	I had a related question about Black newspapers in Gainesville. Or, Black magazines, or any type of literature.

	H:	Oh, you talking to the right people!



	D:	Could you talk a little bit about how that got started around here?



	H:	Mr. Welch, I’ll defer to him to talk about Mr. Charles. In the Gainesville Sun.





	JW:	Mmhm, Bill Charles. He was the Black editor for the Gainesville Sun.



	H:	They had a column in there for Black people. In the Gainesville Sun. It wasn’t just anywhere in there. It was in this column.

	JW:	And then, following that, then they recruited Nathan Tillman to come from Louisville, Kentucky. He graduated from Lincoln University as a journalist, and went to Louisville, Kentucky to work. And the Gainesville Sun recruited him to come here. They even provided him with housing and all that sort of thing in order to get here.

	H:	Now, we talking about two different things. This is much later.



	JW:	And he wrote a bunch of material, and the voice of the people, and all that sort of thing.

	H:	J, do you know when he came? Mr. Tillman, about what time? Because it was, like, [19]60s, I think, wasn’t it?

	JW:	Mmm, yes. Something like that, yeah.



H:  What was Mr. Chiles’s first name, do you remember? Because that’s— JW:  Benjamin. Benjamin Chiles.

H:  That’s the man you ought to look up. Benjamin Chiles. Because it was a column, that it was a Black column. So, I don’t know what page it was on. It was after the advertisement, or the death notices, or what it was. But it wasn’t prominent like in the front of the paper or nothing, okay? And I remember that because Mr. Chiles lived right down the street from me. So I remember that like a whatdoyoucallit.

And he lived on Sixth Avenue, I don’t know what that was called at the time.



	JW:	Sixth Avenue. That was Sixth Street and Columbia.





	H:	Okay. So he was in the Northwest section of town. But he was the man. Now, what else did he do, J? He wasn’t just other than that column. He did something else, didn’t he?

	JW:	He was a teacher. He taught English. English teacher.



	H:	So he was a teacher, too. And he had a very prominent house over there. As a matter of fact, his house is still there. And it’s a big house. Yeah. It’s a two-story house.

	JW:	But that house came down to him through his inheritance. That was his father’s house. He was Benjamin also, but he was a letter carrier.

	H:	So these Chileses, you really ought to look them up. Because they’re people to know about.

	D:	And there’s also the Guardian. Did the Guardian come much later?



	H:	There was no Guardian out there. You know what Black people really did, when they wanted to know about what was going on with Black folk? The Afro- American. J, is that the paper? What was the paper?

	AW:	The Seminary Lane?



	H:	No, no, no, no. There was a—Pittsburgh Courier! JW:	Yeah, that’s it! Yeah.

	H:	Pittsburgh Courier. And the paper was the color of that whatdoyoucallit. It didn’t look like a regular newspaper.

	D:	Like a manila folder-type thing?



	H:	No, it was that color. The paper was that color. Yeah.



	JW:	You had the Pittsburgh Courier, the Chicago Defender, Afro-American…





	H:	Amsterdam News later on, too. But— D:	Where’d you get them from?

	H:	They were mailed. They came by mail from the cities. AW:	Catch-all carried it too.

	H:	Yeah. But I guess it may have been delivered by train or Greyhound bus. Got to remember, we had good communication with the northern cities in Gainesville. That’s never been a problem. And we also had airplane service between New York City, for a long time.

	JW:	That was east of here.



	H:	Yeah. We had prop airplanes, you could get to New York. But you don’t have Mr.



Chiles there?



	JW:	Yeah, you got…



	M:	Mention of him there under A. Quinn Jones.



	H:	And people talked to him, and he talked to people. And he had the news, I’m telling you. That was in 1921.

	D:	He was the trustee.



	AW:	[Looking at projection] Is that Old Lincoln High School, there? That look like the old Lincoln High School entrance.

	D:	Mmhm. First graduating class. JW:	Oh, A. Quinn Jones there.

	D:	Principal Jones.



	H:	What year is that? [19]25? 1925! [Laughter] By Murray Laurie, whoever that was.





	M:	Oh, Murray Laurie, she’s a—where does she work? I can picture the building. But she does, like, local history stuff, I think.

	H:	Never heard of the name.



	M:	What is that place? Why am I blanking on it?



	H:	[Reading from projection] “If he makes good, he has the position as long as”— move up a little bit! [Laughter] They talking about Prof Jones, there. “…position as long as he desires it,’ promised Chiles, along with the monthly salary of a hundred and twenty-five dollars!” That was a lot of money!

	JW:	Yeah.



	H:	1925, that’s a lot of damn money! [Laughter] “It turned out that Allen Quinn Jones”—A. Quinn Jones, okay—“would spend the next thirty-six years, the rest of his professional career, as an education leader in Gainesville as the principal of three schools. But his influence as an educator lasted far beyond his retirement in 1957, up until his death in 1997.” Oh, gosh! I didn’t know he lived that long!

	JW:	Now, let me see—



	H:	[inaudible] Yeah. That’s a good one, there.



	M:	So I’ve got kind of a follow-up question from before: if your family never talked about the Klan, or about lynchings, did you have any idea growing up what it was? I mean, were you aware of that kind of thing? How did you get that?

[Contemporaneous with above, JW asks AW about a specific historical detail that he thinks is incorrect in the projection, but it is hard to make all of the words out.]

	H:	Okay.





	JW:	These aren’t bathrooms. No, we—that’s wrong. I mean, Old Lincoln here. AW:	No!

	H:	What you talking about, outhouses? AW:	Yeah.

	JW:	Old Lincoln didn’t have no— H:	Not when we were there.

	JW:	No, no, no, we not—old Lincoln built in 1923. Now, here’s a guy, I would take it easy with him anyway.

	AW:	I know Joel Buchanan.



	H:	Oh, yeah. Joel was a youngster. We liked Joe, but Joe was a youngster compared to us. Joel was—how much younger than us was he, Ar?

	AW:	I would say at least pretty close to—I know Joel should be pretty close to about ten years younger.

	H:	Yeah, that’s what—that’s what I want to think, too. Ten years, yeah. He was younger. As a side note, though, Joel Buchanan did a lot of good in the community.

	AW:	Mmhm.



	H:	I ran into him a couple days ago and didn’t even know who the hell he was. He has had surgery, and I understand that he’d had some kind of whatdoyoucallit—

	M:	He had a stroke a couple of years ago.



	H:	Yeah. Yeah, so—and I think cancer also. So I think today he’s a very changed person. And he told me that he didn’t drive, and he didn’t hardly go anywhere. He just stayed home, and I was, like, shocked. Because that just wasn’t the Joel that





I knew, you know? And he lived right down the street from me, so I knew him very well as a youngster. But he was a very, very good person. Good person.

	JW:	Joel Buchanan was one of my picketers and demonstrators, and he never has mentioned anything about me. Never has. And I don’t know—and then, he was at, admitted to Gainesville high school. My son, who is now fifty-four years of age, was ordered to be admitted to Kirby Smith Elementary School. And they never mentioned anything about him being a part of the court order. Because I was a teacher in the Alachua County School System, and with the City of Gainesville Schools—the School Board.

	H:	Mmhm. Which took a lot of guts, at that time. A lot of guts. Now let’s get back to your question. You wanted to know where we learned about lynchings and things like that if we didn’t learn it at home. This brings back another issue—and this goes back to, like, Mr. Welch, and people of his caliber. We had teachers, let’s say if we had a kid to come into class and call somebody “nigger” one day.

Teacher might decide to set aside the lesson that day, and teach a lesson on morals and history. And teach you why you didn’t use words of that nature.

Teacher would say, “Something happened, students,” and tell us what happened. And tell us, “Close your books and put them aside, because that’s all we going be doing today. We going to address the problem that this student has.” So that’s the way that we learned about these things like lynching. There may have been a lynching in another state somewhere, and it was prominent in the news—oh, that’s something else we used to have to do! On Mondays, for our Social Studies classes, we had to bring an article and share it with the class. And the teacher





was smart enough to look through the articles—you could talk about your article, what it was, the topic. The teacher say, “Sam, Mary, and John. Those are the articles that are going to be presented.” The other students got a chance to tell what they article was. But what the teachers were doing is looking at the quality articles and whatdoyoucallit. So, one of those articles might be the discussion for the day. Lynching in Alabama. But the teacher would fill in, in terms of, what was a lynching? What was the pretext for this lynching? What led up to it? What was the law that you all ought to know to know that that was wrong? And then, the teacher might end up at the end of the class, talking about that might be your job to try to change, and a better society someday. So, we had teachers that had guts. They were teaching teachers, and they were concerned about the values that the young people would walk away with. So, that’s how we would learn.

Now, we had other older people like ministers that were independent in the community that might talk about it—not in a sermon, necessarily, but in Sunday School, it might be a topic that would come up. It might be that you were sitting on the porch of somebody, because—as a youngster, Mr. Welch would, I knew him very well. I might be visiting with him, and something comes on television. I’d say, “I didn’t never know about that.” Mr. Welch might say, “Oh, well, let me tell you about it.” So we had people. It didn’t have to be your family. We had people to talk to us about—

	JW:	The Black press paved a great road, Matthis. You take the Pittsburgh Courier, the Chicago Defender, and all those. And Afro-American. They kept us well informed.





	H:	Yeah. And then you had Jet. You had Ebony magazines that came along later on that were very prominent. But that Pittsburgh Courier was my first introduction to things that involved Black people. And I remember that from when I was a child. Matter of fact, like he was saying about Cato carried the paper, you’d have people in the community talk about that paper. And that paper, one paper, might be read five times before it went into the garbage. And so it would be passed around if you couldn’t afford it. And all those papers and things, we had in our libraries at the school. We had damn good librarians. And in the summertime, we had a library over there where the police station is now, right off of—

	AW:	First.



	H:	First Street. And one was a fat lady, and the other one—who was the other librarian, Arago?

	AW:	I forget her name.



	H:	Miss Gibson, I want to say, was one of the librarians. But then, Miss Whatshername was the primary librarian, the one that lived over across the street from Mr. Charles.

	AW:	Yeah.



	H:	And I can’t think of her name. She was also the librarian at the new Lincoln. But we had librarians that were on the money. And then, I worked in the library in high school, when I was a volunteer librarian, when I was a kid. But in the summertime, they would give us books, and they would make sure we would have library cards, and then they would have whatdoyoucallit? They would have things where they, I want to say “demo books.” They would read books to the





younger kids. But we would talk about the books that we were reading and things. So, we were very well exposed to what was going on. I’ll tell you as an aside: when I was a young kid, I—and I don’t know what grade I started this in— but I started reading the New York Times as a very young person. My mother worked in that building over there, and the papers, when they were finished over there, they came to my house. So, I had the New York Times every week at my house, from a very young age. Another reason that I developed an interest in reading is that, on the top floor of that building—I think it’s over here—I think it’s the top floor, either the second floor—the Religion department was in that building. The religion professors would throw out the thesis papers, and where the kids had to write on various topics. I read a lot of that when I was a youngster. So, that allowed me to develop real independent thinking about various topics as a youngster. I would have stacks and stacks of those things, so many of them I couldn’t read all of them, you know? And then, not just the New York Times, but I had papers from all different places: the Orlando paper, the Miami paper. And that lounge over there, those papers were there. And when they were discarded, a lot of them came to my house. So, I sat down and read a lot of papers. And so, I knew a lot about what was going on. You still had radio, and then you had television coming in. One of my neighbors had a television. I don’t think we had a television. I don’t think we ever had a television in our house when we were kids. But I saw what was going on on the television. So we saw what was happening in New York, what was going on in Washington; these demonstrations and things during the Civil Rights era. And our teachers, also;





when we went to the new Lincoln, we had a television in our class. So, a Social Studies teacher wouldn’t think nothing of—if it was election time—of having the kids in to look at the results of the election or something, you know? And then, when VCRs came in, we had those also. So, our teachers were on the money in terms of making sure we saw what was going on. And one of the best teachers I ever had was Dr. Rawls. Dr. J. C. Rawls. He went to the University—no, well, he went to school at Iowa. Was it Iowa? University of Iowa, or Iowa State?

	JW:	Now, I did know where J.C. went, where was that?



	H:	But I know he went to school in Iowa, and I think it probably was the University of Iowa. But, he had gone to White institutions, and he was on top of things. And he made sure that you knew what was going on. I think Bear Jones was another one of my Social Studies teachers or Government teachers. This guy was a football coach. But he was on top of the government stuff.

	AW:	I want to change up a little bit here—



	H:	Let me, let me just say this here: Dr. Rawls also taught History and European Civilization. And he was on top of that also. But go ahead.

	AW:	During the days him and I was coming up, most people around there in the community didn’t have telephones. We got the scrap out of the trash, and found out how we could have telephones. [Laughter] And just about every one of the persons around in the community, just about that, we knew and was close to, had telephone. And it actually worked. We had a switchboard. They had it where that when you called the operator, we can plug in to wherever you want to contact. And just about get ready to run it to my house, to where my grandmother





was living at—that mean we had to cross University Avenue, and come over there sort of where Alachua General was, from Fifth Avenue. And we had wires all up in the trees. No one never knew they were up there. We just found out recently that a lot of those wires is still there, right today.

H:  Now, we were going to cross University Avenue. The problem is, that what we would do, is running the wires where they could be seen. We skinned the wire, burned the whatdoyoucallit off of it—

AW:  Insulation.



	H:	And, just run the wire. And insulate it after you cross the street. But, University Avenue in the old days had oak trees that would cross the street. But what they did is they wired it, and then they tore down a lot of trees and stuff. So that’s why our dream of crossing University Avenue never materialized. Otherwise, we’d have had them running all the way over there.

	AW:	I was thinking about running it through the manhole, and then come back out! [Laughter]

	D:	When was this?



	H:	We were kids. We were kids, yeah. JW:	Yeah, I remember that.

	H:	But we also had a set of field phones for the military. And we’d go down to the telephone company and take wire that they had discarded. So we’d use their wire. They had batteries down there that we would use, because we would discard them and you could still use them as a power source and stuff. But we— we were real scientists! [Laughter]





	AW:	My mother had her lights go one time, and I took the batteries and connect them up so much to it she could have her refrigerator running, and have lights on the house off of those batteries. Like to got electrocuted, you know? [Laughter]

	H:	Yeah. You got to understand, the phone company had some batteries that most people didn’t know about. These batteries were DC—but they were AC. I guess—how did that…?

	AW:	It was AC. H:	AC.

	AW:	DC battery. But you could hook them up where you got enough wattage and voltage to do what you want.

	H:	That’s the real difference. The voltage was different from the whatdoyoucallit, what you get from DC. But, we were really surprised because those batteries were really powerful. And they weren’t big batteries. They were small batteries. [Reading from the projection] Pittsburgh Courier. What is that? Lawson Rendezvous Complete In This Issue. Who was Lawson? I don’t even know what that was. But look at this down here, this cartoon is classic.

	AW:	Now, a lot of this go back to— H:	Amos and Andy.

	AW:	The Catchua had lot of numbers on it, what they call “bolita.” H:	Oh, yeah! Yeah! [Laughter]

	AW:	And you would look in there for the numbers and play them. H:	Yeah, do you all know what bolita was? [Laughter] Mr. Welch! JW:	Hm?





	H:	Tell them about bolita! Because these are youngsters, they don’t know what we talking about here! Let’s see if we can find some of them numbers in there, now! [Laughter]

	D:	Is that like Cuba? H:	Yeah. Yeah!

	D:	What’s the story behind it, though? Because I heard “Cuba” was called Cuba because they would get the numbers called in from Cuba, and to northern Tallahassee, around that area?

	H:	No, no no no no no. You got it mixed up. Cuba was the place that people went to enjoy themselves. They had casinos. Gambling casinos and stuff. And since it was only ninety miles off the coast of Florida—like, that was part of Castro’s appeal. That Castro wanted to run the Americans out of Cuba because of their so-called bad behavior there. But it was a paradise for Americans. And gambling, there was a number that came out of Cuba every—what was it, Saturday, J?

	JW:	Yeah.



	H:	Every Saturday, there was a number that came out. And I guess there was a wheel or something that was used. So, this business was, like Mr. Welch was telling you before, this business was run by Whites here in town. They were the numbers people. So, you think about it: people turning in all this money, to—you had writers that would write. Then they would take your money. But then, they had to turn that in to somebody. And that money that was turned in had to be turned in at a certain time. Those things, I think you punched them if I’m not mistaken. You would get a ticket that was your ticket where you had paid. But the





bolita people were—they were really bankers, when you think about it. They would get all this money so they could afford to pay you back when you had a hit, so called. When you won. You know? Think about it: if you got a thousand people that are turning in money, and you have a hit on a hundred dollars, that ain’t nothing. And it was in different denominations. You’d—because I don’t know much about it, because I never gambled—but you might be, 666 is your number, right? And for every one of those numbers, you had to pay a certain amount of money.

	AW:	Put on the amount you paid for it.



	H:	Yeah, how you got paid if you won. But that was a big business. So, you know



that was a mafia business.



	AW:	Yeah. They made bolita legal, though.



	H:	Oh, totally legal. But all of the prominent people were involved in this business, though, I’m telling you. Because otherwise, it wouldn’t have existed in the community. And these people would have gone to jail. They didn’t go to jail. The low-level writers? None of the people the people that were there were the bankers for this business.

	JW:	Technically society paid the police off.



	H:	Yeah. So they were probably the leaders in that business. Oh, while we talking about that: do y’all know anything about Mayer Lansky? Mayer Lansky lived in Miami. You can look this up. Meyer Lansky was a Jew that was the head of the— he was one of the mafia men, of not just Florida, but of United States. And he lived in a way where—that’s him [being projected]—he lived in a way where he





wasn’t very flashy and stuff as an old person. But this guy was the head of the mafia operation down there, or part of the mafia, I should say. What does it say? Mob’s account—okay, he was an accountant. This guy, I remember a lot of money, him having a lot of money that he controlled and stuff for the Mob. But he was a very important figure down there and in Cuba. See, in later years—the Flamingo. There’s a hotel called the Flamingo, I think that was in Miami.

	AW:	Probably a rental.



	H:	Television. What is that? Films. This guy was involved in a lot of stuff. But that money was invested in stuff. He was just, like I said, an accountant. He wasn’t the one who would whatdoyoucallit. But there were a lot of other mafia figures involved with that. Yeah. But those were the people they wanted out of Cuba. So that’s why Castro was able to do a lot.

	D:	So were the numbers from Gainesville, were those also coming out of Cuba?



	H:	Oh yeah! This thing was all—the mafia was not a whatdoyoucallit? This was a— AW:	I’d say, at least it was in the state of Florida.

	D:	I know there were different types in different parts of the country.



	H:	Yeah, I know in Florida. But they played numbers all over, though. Because even in New York—

	D:	Yeah, my great-grandfather was a numbers runner. H:	So—

	AW:	And that’s why they call it— D:	Yeah, numbers running.

	H:	Yeah.





	AW:	Yeah, those are the one that go and write you down for how much you want to play, and turn it in to the big peoples.

	H:	Yeah, and you didn’t cross those people. AW:	Right!

	D:	They told me, I guess, that a number hit in New York, and they couldn’t afford to pay them. So he had to leave town with a whole bunch of other people.

	H:	Oh, you’d better leave town and go someplace else if you didn’t pay, man! [Laughter] Because you had the ordinary people to go get your money. But then, you had the mafia for taking they money. Because you taking they money, if they weren’t able to pay.

	M:	Someone told me they did numbers at the Rose Theater. Is that right? H:	The Rose Theater was owned by Jews.

	AW:	Yeah. Oh, what’s that guy’s name?



	H:	I don’t remember the name. I know it was owned by Jews.



	JW:	Yeah, and he was a merchant. He was a merchant. Owned a business downtown that owned the Rose Theater. Can’t think of his name. Davis? Davis, Davis—.

	H:	[Looking at projection] Yeah, there it is. Rose Theater at the top. Oh, you want the Rose Theater, Gainesville. Did you put Gainesville in your search? Rose Theater was right down there on Fifth Avenue.

	AW:	Yeah, I know.



	H:	Yeah, I know you know. But he doesn’t know.



[Interchange about how best to conduct the Google search for “Rose Theater”]





	M:	What do you guys remember about the Rose Theater? H:	That’s where we spent our Saturdays! [Laughter]

	JW:	I think the guy’s name, last name was Davis, who owned it.



	AW:	Okay, before the Rose Theater, there was Lincoln Theater down here where the Safety Cab at. That was the first theater. And somehow, it caught fire, and—

	H:	Oh, no. Even before that, it done gone down. Lincoln had gone down. You don’t go to Lincoln, it became shit.

	AW:	Yeah, then they moved it down to Rose Theater.



	H:	Now, something interesting about the Rose Theater: if you looked at it on the front, it looked like ordinary building. But it was a parsing hut.

	AW:	Yeah.



	H:	It was like this. And it was metal. JW:	The Metts Theater—

	H:	If it rained, you would hear rain on the tin, because it was made out of tin. So, it was like a—I don’t know if it was a building that they got the stuff from World War II, because it was built sometime, I think, after World War II. But the building itself was built like surplus material from World War II. Because it really was a pointed hut. But it was big.

	M:	Did they only show movies there, or did they used to show those—like the news reels and stuff like that?

	H:	Oh, yes! Yes!



	AW:	Mmhm.





	H:	The Rose Theater, you go in there on a Saturday, and they might have a double feature there on a Saturday, okay? You had to have a shooter. Okay?

	AW:	That’s right!



	H:	No cowboy flick! [Laughter] You wouldn’t get nobody in there, okay? Now, Sundays, you might have a love story. So that was like more family time. But, a man and his wife would never go in on a Saturday. Maybe Saturday the last show. But not early in the day. Because the kids would be there. And the kids would be out of their damn mind. They would throw things, they would throw popcorn. They might throw sodas. Just—at anything and everything it went. But, they had some ushers that would throw your ass out of there.

	AW:	Mmhm!



	H:	So, they had people who’d—I remember being in the Rose Theater, things got crazy, they’d turn on the lights, and come in there and eject people. Yeah. And then they would, you know, the theater would come back on. But that was the place to be. And see, remember, I was talking about religion, I was telling you that it was limited. See that came after World War II, and that was much more of a part of an enlightened era. And you’ve got to keep in mind that the Catholic Church had a censorship thing going with the theaters. So, you didn’t get everything being shown in the movies. There were only certain movies that were approved to be shown in the movies. There were things that were whatdoyoucallit. And think back: this guy was Jewish. The movie industry, if you study the movie industry, and the television industry, it was controlled by Jews also. So, you talking about—





	JW:	Y’all don’t know about the Metts Theater, do you? AW:	The what?

	JW:	Metts Theater. You know about Metts Theater?



	H:	I know the name, but I didn’t know anything about it.



	M:	He mentions it in that thesis there, Negro Life in Gainesville. He mentions Metts, actually.

	H:	Where was that one at?



	JW:	The Metts Theater was located on—now, let’s see, right next door to where White and Jones is.

	AW:	Oh! Yes, yes! Okay!



	H:	Was that prior to the Lincoln Theater? JW:	Yeah.

	AW:	Yeah.



	H:	Okay. Well, I didn’t know that one.



	JW:	You know where Pinkney Funeral? Where the Pinkney Funeral Home is now, in Gainesville. Right next door to Pinkney Funeral Home.

	AW:	Okay, you know where the recreation center, Black recreation center? That’s run by Hattie? You come on down there to the big red church there, right? Right through in that parking lot area right there.

	M:	Just try “Metts”: M-E-T-T-S. Mr. Welch, what do you remember about the Metts Theater? Do you remember it?





	JW:	Yes. I think the very first movie I ever saw there was The Imitation of Life. And plus the fact, my mother owned and operated a restaurant just two doors south of Metts Theater.

	M:	What was the name of that restaurant? JW:	Ideal Café.

M:   Did you know Mr. Metts?



JW:  Metts? Yeah. I knew he and his wife, son.



AW: Let’s see, all along there—there was a barbershop along there, too. Further down the street, there was a Black cleaners. One of the first—what was his name, Sanders?

JW:  He was Jerry Johnson.



M:  He’s right in the beginning, too, in the acknowledgements, because he—I guess Mr. Metts must have helped this guy talk to people, and get in touch with people. That kind of thing.

H:  There’s the theater right there, man. Where it says—right up in there. You don’t see Theater up there? I can’t see that far. Oh, it’s tenure, it’s tenure now.

M:   Yeah, tenure.



	JW:	I’m trying to think of what Metts’ first name. His son name was Tom. They had only one child.

	D:	J.C. Metts?



	JW:	J.C. Metts…



	H:	No, that’s M-E-T-T-E.



	M:	M-E-T-T-S.





H:   M-E-T-T-S, okay, M-E-T-T-S.



M:  So this guy’s guides—he had two guides. There were Samuel Hendley, who you said you knew; he taught at Union Academy, and I guess he was a rent collector at this point. And Henry Franklin. Do any of you know him? He went to Lincoln.

JW:  Henry Franklin? Yeah, I knew the Franklins, yes.



	H:	Is that the guy across the street from me, right there? JW:	He [Inaudible 4:01:19] in front of Rose Theater.

AW:  Oh, yeah!



	H:	That’s the Franklin family. AW:	Yeah. Right.

	M:	What do you guys remember about him?



H:  I don’t know him. I know his family, though. He was a—what did he do? Because he was a very prominent man in town. He owned his own house, I know that.

M:  At the time, he was a high school student. He was going to Lincoln at the time in [19]37 when he guided this guy Miller around to find, you know, just meet people and stuff like that.

H:  Yeah, that was one of the most prominent families in Gainesville, the Franklin family. He wasn’t a postman, was he, J?

	JW:	Who?



	H:	Mr. Franklin.



	JW:	What did he do? Hm…



	H:	Because he owned his house, so I know he had to have a good job. JW:	Yeah, yeah. Had a good job.





	H:	It was a nice house. At the time, it was a very nice house. But he lived right across the street from me. The family lived right—I think he died early or something, because I didn’t know him. I knew the family, though.

	JW:	His name was Carnal Franklin. Carnal, C-R-N-A—or, it was Carnal Franklin. H:	C-O—

	JW:	C-A-R-N-A-L. Carnal.



	H:	C-O-R-N-A-L. Okay.



	M:	What about Samuel Hendley? What do you remember about him?



	JW:	Hendley? Oh. Well, he owned a number of rental houses, and plus the fact I think he taught at the old academy before Lincoln was built.

	M:	Did you ever meet him or know him?



	JW:	Yes, he was a great friend of my great-grandmother. And in fact, they helped to found a lodge building and organization called the Sunlight Pallbearers Lodge.

	H:	Now, what was his name? M:	Samuel Hendley.

	H:	Samuel. Okay. Now, let me tell you something about the Franklins. They still have a grandchild or something in Gainesville. He knows her, knows where she lives also. Connie Mae, Aunt Connie Mae’s daughter.

	JW:	Lives on Ninth Street? In the red brick house? AW:	Yeah, right.

	H:	And one of the old timers is still alive, because his kids were taking care of him. AW:	Mrs. Aurum, she is—

	H:	Is she a Franklin, or what?





	AW:	Yeah, she a Franklin.



	H:	Yeah. One of the old timers still alive. AW:	She used to work here.

	H:	At the university.



	AW:	Yeah.



	M:	Yeah, we might want to get in touch with her if we can.



	AW:	I think she worked over in Broward Hall, somewhere over in there. Uh-huh. I’m trying to think what she was doing over there.

	M:	So, where did Samuel Hendley own property? Was that around 5th Avenue, around that area, or would it have been…?

	JW:	He owned property on—well, his household was on 3rd Avenue. Northeast 3rd Avenue. And he owned rental property in Porter’s Addition, which is the south part of Gainesville, about three or four blocks south of University Avenue. He owned a group of rental houses.

	H:	So, where did he live there, J? Down there by the Greyhound bus station?



Somewhere down that way?



	JW:	Who, Hendley? No, he lived over town on what used to be Church Street. The house still stands there. Big old… Where that school that Little J and Virginia attended? St. Augustine?

	AW:	St. Augustine. Yeah.



	H:	You all know about St. Augustine, right?



	M:	Uh… [Laughter]





	AW:	That school was originally from that big church downtown there, where the clock is at. Presbyterian Church. They started that school, Mr. Kutz.

	H:	St. Augustine occupies a very important place in my heart. That’s where I went to elementary school—I mean, pre-kindergarten school.

	AW:	Yeah. I did too. The one-room class.



	H:	The building—no, no, they had more than that. In the old days, it was one room, right. But then they brought in, from Camp Blanding they brought in another building.

	AW:	Yeah, the other building, yep.



	H:	And it’s the Center for Homeless or something now. The building’s still there. Do you all know where Morning Glass is down there? You know where Santa Fe Community College?

	AW:	Morning Glass.



	H:	One of those little side streets down there that is still there. And up until about, I’d say, ten years ago, they used to have the same climbing gym that we played on. It was made out of metal. But it was still there. And they recently pulled it out. But that building is one of the buildings that was there when we were in school, believe it or not. So, very old building. And it’s right behind Mt. Carmel, by the way. About two or three streets behind the old Mt. Carmel church that sits on Fifth Avenue? Just right back up in that little neighborhood, where there are a bunch of little wooden houses back up in there.

	D:	Yeah, Mr. Welch, this says the Metts church [theater] burned down two days before Christmas, 1936? Do you remember that?





	AW:	In [19]36, it burnt down.



	JW:	Yeah, yeah, it was about that time. Because we had the restaurant two doors down from that in 1935.

	M:	Do you remember much about the fire?



	JW:	No I don’t, because we had closed our restaurant that we had there when it burned down.

	H:	A Simplex projector; that sounds like something that’s very simple! Vaudeville— oh, they had Vaudeville in there, too?

	JW:	They had dancers. Dancers and all them entertainments.



	H:	“Electric fans were suspended from the ceiling… Circulation of air…” Oh, this was a real dump! [Laughter] “Two inner vogs and” what is that? “Light fire exits.” Oh, God! You couldn’t even get out of the damn place!

	AW:	I got a number there when I was a kid, though. Oh, that couldn’t be! I forget that it was there!

		H:	“Thirty dollars per month above expenses” wasn’t good enough, probably! “…and pictures were shown fairly regularly.” And those were the 	 all the time.

	AW:	And there was another place, too, that they renovated now, is Blue Note. That was a very popular place, there, too. A lot of Blacks would gather there. And that’s over there in the Southeast section. They renovating the building now to restore it back to the regular use now.

	H:	You talking about that old hall that was over in Sugarhill? AW:	They called it the Blue Note at that time.

	H:	Do you all know the building that he’s talking about?





	AW:	There was casinos in there. JW:	There was casinos—

	H:	Okay, you go down there where the bus station—what’s that called? AW:	RTS depot transit.

	H:	The one that’s named after that lady. M:	Oh, the Rosa Parks?

H:  Yeah, Rosa Parks. That station. You head toward the Lincoln Middle School on that street, go around the traffic circle. Keep going. There’s a big building there on the right-hand side that looks like it’s out of place. That’s the building that we talking about, about two or three blocks down there.

	AW:	They used to have a whole lot of bands there like Bo Diddley, and what was some of the old managers come there and—

	H:	All of the old popular groups during that era. Because my father and my mother talked about dances and things in that building. That was the place.

	AW:	And my grandmother, too.



	H:	They whatdoyoucallit, they had proms and things was held in that building. When you go down there, you look at the building, they restored the building. I have a hunch the building look better than it did in the beginning.

	AW:	Yeah, it does.



	H:	But it’s a beautiful, big whatdoyoucallit. And it sat there for years, vacant. JW:	Arago?

	AW:	Yeah.





	JW:	I can recall this here, now. Was a pool room. Okay, now this Hendley here, now this is Donald Hendley’s father there, and that pool room was next door to them. And that pool room was owned by a guy named Rick Ross. Rick Ross owned the pool room.

	H:	Look how well-dressed those fellows are! That’s what gets me. They got on ties…

	JW:	And Hendley was next door to that.



	H:	Suspenders and White shirts. That’s interesting.



	M:	Well, they knew they were going to be in a thesis there.



	H:	No, no, no—this is something y’all are probably not aware of. In the old days, particularly people that were hooked up with education and religion, they dressed. The teachers wore ties. I don’t know if it was a requirement. J, you had a whatdoyoucallit. In the old days, was it a requirement that teachers wore ties?

	JW:	Yes.



	H:	Because teachers dressed in the Black schools. They wore ties to work, I remember that. And women, they would wear very nice clothes to school.

	JW:	Or, you take, probably ‘til 1970, our female teachers were not allowed to wear pants. They had to wear a dress, they had to come dressed. In fact, I remember we had to have a special meeting to authorize our teachers to wear pant suits.

	AW:	Well, I remember, even as a student, I used to wear a white shirt and tie.



	H:	Yeah, that’s what I was going to say. The students were required to dress a certain way, also. You couldn’t just wear anything to school. They relaxed it over the years, during segregation. But you had to look a certain way. You couldn’t





just come out there any kind of way to school. And they had codes and things. And I know a little bit about this because I listened to my president of Florida A&M talk. But the way you looked was very important to them. The image you presented. Very, very important.

	M:	So, what did you do if your parents couldn’t afford—



	H:	Oh, no no no no no no no. No. No, they’d sacrifice for that. They’d sacrifice for that.

	M:	Where would people get these nice clothes? Just go downtown?



	H:	Yeah, they would buy them. But as time went on, these things were easier to acquire. But in the early days, it might have been a little difficult. But the teachers made sure. Teachers went to thrift shops and things and bought clothes for students.

	JW:	[Looking at projection] That was behind Chestnut Funeral Home. That where Pistol Alley was.

	H:	Oh! Oh yeah. I remember this kind of shit. [Laughter]



	JW:	Yeah, that behind Chestnut Funeral. That where Pistol Alley was.



	H:	We had a lot of this kind of stuff that Black people lived in in Gainesville. A lot of it.

	D:	The house on page 51?



	M:	Do you know where the people who lived in that neighborhood usually worked?



Like, where were they going to from there?



	AW:	Housewives.





	H:	A lot of these people that lived in places like this, they did pickup work.



Particularly men. Often, the people that had regular jobs in Gainesville were the women, not the men. The men—J, you remember they’d keep having fires and stuff, and people would come and pick them up for work? There were places where the men would stand around and wait for work. And the White men, if they needed a worker, they knew where to go.

	JW:	[Looking at projection] Oh, I know where that was at.



	H:	So there was a lot of that kind of stuff going on around Gainesville.



	JW:	That house still exists. It’s on Pleasant Street. That’s doctor… what was his name? Arago? His wife used to be one of the demonstrators with us. And she was up in age. And she tickled me.

	H:	Was this near the Mt. Pleasant church?



	JW:	Right. Right. That house, I was going to say, that’s Dr.—what was his name? AW:	Klohn.

	H:	We had Dr. Debose, we had Dr. Ayers— JW:	No, Dr. Ayers, no.

	D:	Banks?



	H:	No, Banks never lived over there. Banks was always on the other side of town. JW:	That house still exists. It’s still a nice-looking house.

	H:	Was there a medical doctor, J? JW:	Dentist.

	H:	Cosby?



	JW:	No, no. Before Cosby.





	AW:	That’s the one that right next to where Cato was. Yeah, so right next to it. H:	This must sit back, way back from the street.

	JW:	Oh, what was his name? Doctor—can’t think of his name. Because, see, the doctor lived in that house and then he moved in go-top behind the church there on Sixth Street near the jail, where them two big houses there that Eddie George own now? The two houses they own? We had William Temple there. They was behind that. Stafford! Dr. Stafford!

	H:	Oh, okay!



	JW:	Stafford.



	H:	I remember that name, yeah. Dr. Stafford. JW:	Yeah, Stafford.

	H:	Oh! He lived over there in front of the Holiness Church, somewhere around there, Dr. Stafford. No no no, but he moved, J said.

	JW:	Yeah, from there he moved, built house directly behind—what’s that church there?

	AW:	That yellow house there by Havey Church. JW:	Two-story house.

	H:	He was before our time. AW:	A Carter was staying there.

	H:	Yeah, he was before our time.



	AW:	But he really was on with us named Carter. H:	Not the Carter that was in our class.

	AW:	I think she was younger than us.







JW:



D:



H:

Yeah, Dr. Stafford’s house. Was he from Gainesville?

I think he was from—

JW:

Who?

H:

Dr. Stafford. Was he a doctor practicing here in Gainesville?

JW:

Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah.

H:

Yeah.

M:

Did he grow up here, too?

H:

Oh, no. None of those people like that grew up here. He probably came from



someplace else. Like Dr. Banks, is he originally from Gainesville, J?

JW:

No, mm-mm.

H:

All our doctors—Dr. Debose—all of our doctors was from someplace else.

JW:

Dr. Debose was an original here.

H:

Originally from Gainesville?

JW:

Uh-huh, yeah.

H:

Dr. Ayers.

JW:

Yeah, and Ayers, yes.

H:

Now, Dr. Ayers is not the Ayers that was a teacher. There’s another brother that



was a doctor. He was older. Was that the father?

JW:

You had the old senior Dr. Ayers, and then you had the son was a doctor.

H:

And then Bobby Ayers was a teacher.

JW:

And then Bobby was a teacher. And I was surprised that Bobby Ayers didn’t



follow—





	H:	Well, he tried to follow. Because I talked to him. He was a biology major. I think he had trouble in med school. But I think that’s the reason he ended up teaching school.

	JW:	And then, Dr. J. Parker also here in Gainesville. He was a medical doctor. H:	I didn’t know that.

	AW:	He was originally from Gainesville? JW:	Parker?

	AW:	Yeah. JW:	Yes.

	AW:	Okay. I didn’t know that.



	D:	The ones who weren’t from Gainesville, where’d they come from? Do you know where they came from?

	H:	The ones that didn’t grow up in Gainesville, he’s asking where did they come from. The doctors.

	JW:	Dr. Banks is from Putnam County. Palatka. H:	So he grew up near Palatka.

	JW:	And let’s see, what else? Ayers original Gainesville person. H:	Debose.

	JW:	Debose was original Gainesville person also.



	AW:	I thought one of the Ayers came from which part of Florida? One of the Ayers.



Thought it was St. Petersburg or something like that?



	JW:	Oh no, he moved to St. Petersburg from Gainesville. He paved the way for Banks to get into practice at Alachua General Hospital. And then after he grew up there,





he wouldn’t practice there himself. He left there. Now, when he became popular, Dr. Ayers was, there was a White patient at Alachua General Hospital, and they didn’t allow doctors to practice medicine in Alachua General Hospital. And so, this guy had what you call a hiccup. And no doctor could cure it. Dr. Ayers told him that he could cure it. And he went over and he did so. And prior to that, Blacks couldn’t practice medicine in Alachua General Hospital. They had a Black hospital called the Jenny Row Hospital. That used to be located on Church Street.

	H:	What is Church Street? Fourth Avenue? Third Avenue? JW:	Right. Right.

	H:	Was that the birthing center? Was that the place where the babies were born? JW:	Yeah.

	H:	That house is still there. JW:	Yeah, Yeah.

H:  Do you all know where Taco Bell is? On University Avenue? If you start at Taco Bell, and you go through there, the first paved road you get to on your left-hand corner, that house is there that we talking about.

JW:  Yeah. Alachua General Hospital.



H:  Mmhm. That was the General Hospital That one-room shack, yeah. It was about as big as two of these rooms put together.

M:   And that was the birthing center? That’s where a lot of people went to—



	H:	That was a hospital! They called that Jenny Row. I didn’t know the name of it!



That the name of it!





	JW:	Jenny Row hospital. H:	J-E-N-N-I-E?

	JW:	I think “Y.”



	H:	J-E-N-N-Y. Jenny Row Hospital. It’s still there. The building’s still there. Now, that was the place where the midwives gave birth to kids there, also. And I think it was a lot of—now, what’s that lady name? Mrs. London. She was one of the midwives.

	AW:	Oh, yeah.



	H:	What was her first name?



	AW:	What’s the name of…? She was a good person. H:	L-O-N-D-O-N. She was very well known.

	D:	Was she related to the C.C. London that owned the barber shop? H:	Could have been, I don’t know.

	JW:	Reverend London himself—I think his sister in law. H:	In law, in law, yeah.

	JW:	Or he was—he was a bootlegger.



	H:	Yeah! But that ain’t all he was! [Laughter] JW:	He was a big bootlegger, I mean bigtime!

	H:	Look his name up, because he’s in the Gainesville Sun. AW:	What was her first name?

	H:	R-U-F-F-I-E. You don’t want the son. Son is a musician. You want the bootlegger.

	AW:	What the bootlegger was? Mable London?





	H:	Mable London.



	JW:	I can’t think of that first name, Arago.



	AW:	I’m trying to think of it. Because I used to talk to her. Mable?



	H:	I have a hunch that might be the name, but I don’t really know. Oh, this guy is all over the news in the Gainesville Sun.

	M:	So this picture there is Dell’s Quarters. JW:	That’s Dell’s Quarters.

	AW:	Ah!



	JW:	That Wilson Street.



	H:	They even cut off people’s electricity down there, huh? [Laughter] JW:	And that one ran north and south, Williston Street.

	H:	What is that background? I’d like to know where that is. That look like the front of a train or something. No, no. This thing here. This in between the two pictures.

What the hell is that?



	M:	I don’t know.



	D:	I think it’s probably the watermark on the paper. M:	Maybe the UF seal.

	H:	Oh, UF?



	JW:	Behind that back row of houses. H:	It’s back was whatever it is.

	M:	So, what did that neighborhood look like later? H:	More like shit. [Laughter]





AW: I’ve out who lives there, and it’s turned out to be nothing but a doctor facility there now. That’s where you—what do you call that thing where they do the autopsies and that?

	H:	Oh! Do y’all know where those new apartment buildings are down there? If you come right out Tigert Hall, and head right toward Main Street, you’re going to run into a traffic circle. Okay, just before you get there, on the right hand side. Or, left hand. Is about where that was. Was it in front of Formo’s Dairy? Because it was a dairy down there.

	AW:	It was behind.



	H:	Behind the dairy. South. AW:	Other house there, yeah.

	H:	The place south of—lot of those, well not a lot of them, but it might be one or two of these houses still left down in there.

	AW:	Nope. No.



	JW:	No.



	H:	All of them are gone? AW:	All gone.

	JW:	They been gone.



	AW:	Yeah, it was just like the neighborhood. [Laughter] M:	That’s north Sixth. That’s—

	JW:	Right now, you don’t see no old houses like that now, out on Sixth Street. They looked like—that house on the right, that looks like…

	H:	Who the hell owned Dell’s Quarters? Was there a man named Dell?





	AW:	Yes sir.



	JW:	Yeah. A woman. Let me see: “A Negro rental at North Sixth Street.” H:	You all know about the pulp mill, about the crate factory, right?

	M:	Oh, in Porter’s.



	AW:	That’s over there by—



	H:	They all lived in these houses, the workers.



	AW:	Til they moved off to FAMU. That was before Sixth Street and Hank Brady.



		H:	That was most of the 	 so far, by the way. In terms of parton and likeman. JW:	That’s Vernita Jones’ house.

	AW:	Yeah.



	JW:	He had died there recently. That before the street was really paved, wasn’t it? AW:	Paved, yeah. Right.

	H:	Oh, we—all the streets in the Black neighborhood were dirt. Or mud. AW:	And when it rained, you would know it, too! [Laughter]

	H:	And if you—except for where I lived on Fifth Avenue and [inaudible 4:26:08] Street—but if you lived in an area and you had one of those clay streets, you were living high on the hog. Because they had something where they would come out—Arago, what was that stuff they would put down? You know what I’m talking about, that yellow stuff they would put down, and then they would roll— they would have a heavy roller to come along?

	AW:	Lime rock.





	H:	Yeah, lime rock. That was the substitute for paved streets for Black folk. lime rock, and a roller. And then, when they really got good, in later years, they’d come along and sprinkle a little bit of tar on it so it didn’t blow away.

	M:	Must have been sticky for a little while then. H:	Oh, yeah. Eventually, it would—

	M:	That’s Pistol Alley [inaudible 4:26:50 as AW begins speaking].



	AW:	See, where I was living at, there was a big ditch. Before they covered it up. H:	Little creek or something, wasn’t it?

	AW:	No, there’s—this road was headed to a little creek. H:	Oh, okay.

	AW:	But when it rained, that ditch would over flood. And it used to scare me to death, because it looked like the road had turned into an ocean! [Laughter] I mean, you could actually see waves in the road. But later on, they came around, and they put down two big pipes. I mean, you could stand up in them. Back in the day, I know they still would sent you—you know where Wise Drug Store? On Fourth Avenue?

	M:	Yeah.



	AW:	Okay. Right outside there where the parking lot of the Wise, there is two big main pipes that run right up under that pavement, all the way across, and go toward the depot.

	H:	What Mt. Carmel is this? Because this is not the Mt. Carmel that I know. M:	I think that’s the—

[Four people talking at once]





	H:	That’s where the Sunday school was? AW:	That downstairs.

	H:	That downstairs part? It looked a hell of a lot better than that when we went there!

	AW:	It’s about the same now.



	H:	Goddamn! That’s some rough-looking stuff! AW:	About the same.

	H:	Well, at least they had an indoor toilet.



	M:	And these pictures I think were taken by Thornton Roberts. I don’t know if you know him at all?

	H:	Oh my gosh! AME church? AME church didn’t look like that! [Laughter] AW:	Been a long time out there.

	H:	That was way over blood that attack. Because the AME church I know is over there on in front of the police station. Caddy-corner from the police station there. That was some rough-looking junk.

	JW:	That’s St. Augustine, up where that pool was. The church where they founded the school, Arago.

	H:	Oh, the church was there, and the school was on the right-hand side of it. But the school started in the church, though.

	JW:	That’s right.



	H:	Yeah. Because I remember going to school, and then they brought down the building there.

	JW:	Yeah.





	H:	I don’t know if they moved them benches around or what, but… AW:	Benches were still there.

	H:	But y’all got some real relics up in here! D:	Mmhm! [Laughter]

	H:	See, that’s what I said! There was another Mt. Carmel church! Okay? JW:	That old Mt. Carmel.

	H:	Yeah, that’s what I was saying! JW:	That’s the original, there.

	H:	Yeah. So there’s been three of them. There’ve been three Mt. Carmels. AW:	That’s where the parsonage at now.

	H:	Oh! That was the parsonage!



	AW:	That’s the parsonage now. They tore it down and built, turned it to what it is now. H:	Yeah, because I remember working on it.

	M:	Do you guys know anything about, I think his name is Thornton Roberts, but he was the photographer. The guy who took the pictures.

	JW:	Thornton?



	M:	Thornton Roberts? JW:	Yeah. Yeah, yeah.

	M:	What do you remember about him? JW:	Thornton Roberts?

	H:	Everything.



	JW:	He was the instructor of Diversified Cooperative Training for Lincoln High School. And that was a program that allowed students to attend school for half a day, and





then go to a job. Thornton would visit their job every once in a while to evaluate them. That’s how you learned to be a mortician, you worked for a funeral home and some of that stuff, or either you worked in a restaurant as a cook. I worked as a cook.

H:  Now, Mr. Roberts—and what I know about him, he was a very brilliant man from what I understand.

	JW:	He was.



	H:	And then he had a brother named Dewey Roberts. Dewey was one of my teachers. He was brilliant. And—I’m going to tell you a story about him one day. [Laughter] Little story about him. But let me tell you about Mrs. Roberts, the mother of these two boys. She had a business. It was a laundromat. It was the first place that Black people could wash their clothes, and not have to have scrub boards. Because the Black people didn’t have washing machines. And this was a coin-operated washing machine place. The building still stands. It’s a brick building near the old Lincoln there. As you’re going to Lincoln from Fifth Avenue, it’s on the right-hand side there. But the building was still there. But that was a godsend for the women in our community, to be able to go there. Because they couldn’t afford to buy a washing machine. But they had the washing machines there. And the old lady, she stayed there, and managed it all the time. And I’m sure it was closed on Sundays, but open all the other days of the week. So, that’s the whatdoyoucallit. But there used to be a house that faced Lincoln High School that Thornton Roberts built. Because—I don’t know if Dewey was involved in it or what. But those boys were very, very smart. And both of them became teachers.





But let me tell you about Dewey, because Dewey was my teacher. A kid got busy doing something in the classroom one day. And he pissed Dewey off. Dewey took a hammer and threw it at the damn student! [Laughter] I think he missed the student, but he made his point, though. The students after that thought Dewey was crazy. He wasn’t crazy. But—

	JW:	Matthis? See if you can find Dellie Roberts. Dellie Roberts was Dewey and them’ father.

	H:	Okay, what’s his name? JW:	Dellie.

	H:	D-E-L-I?



	JW:	Dellie Roberts.



	H:	I don’t know how you spell that. D-E-L-I Roberts, something like that. Okay. JW:	Roberts. See if you can find him on there anywhere.

	AW:	That there in probably was the restroom. Mmhm. H:	One of the cracked the billet at one time, was it? JW:	Yeah.

	M:	What color was it?



	H:	Oh—this is not the same one, Aro. Is it? AW:	Yeah. That’s it.

	H:	Also—oh, it’s elevated. Okay. M:	Was it painted or anything?

	H:	Oh, hell yeah! Hell yeah.



	AW:	It was white. It was white at that time.





	H:	It was a nice-looking building. I remember it had a whatdoyoucallit on the front.



They must have torn that off over there.



	JW:	Matthis, that’s the mount to Mt. Archer and Mt. Éclair. [Laughter] D:	Do you remember Reverend Matthews?

	JW:	Yeah.



	D:	What do you remember about him? JW:	Wife was [inaudible 4:33:36]

	AW:	Said what do you remember about him?



	JW:	Many of the members of my family, at one time, belonged to that church.



	H:	Was this the church that was down at Porter’s, with the white stone front to it? JW:	It was on what used to be old Virginia Avenue.

	H:	Yeah. Yeah. This—a lot of people belonged to that church. That was a big church.

	JW:	Yeah.



	H:	That was one of them churches that had morning and evening services, too, if I remember right. And had them big old pretty picture windows that went in and out like that, if I’m not mistaken.

	M:	And so the pastor there was blind at that time. JW:	I remember that.

	H:	He probably became blind over the years, but he probably wasn’t blind and—



	AW:	Yeah, that’s the church that was over there by the center, wasn’t it? By the recreation center, the Black recreation—Matthis?





	H:	In that general neighborhood. That’s the church that was next to Mildred Mills’ house.

	AW:	Oh, okay. Okay. Yeah.



	H:	Yeah. I know you know the church. AW:	Yeah. Just took a second.

	H:	Yeah. Is it? AW:	Yeah.

	H:	Oh, I didn’t realize that. You know what was interesting about all these buildings: when we were kids, these structures looked like they were really big. But when you get older, and you come back, they don’t look like nothing! [Laughter]

	M:	Just to see them that way. AW:	Oh, that’s the only two—

	H:	Okay, that’s the one that we used to use. Oh, yeah! [Laughter] Okay, that dark part that you see in the middle? You know what that is? That’s the stage. And they got these two little anterooms on each side, one on the left and on the right. And what—are those benches or what, Ar? Because I don’t remember what we had there. I think we had benches there.

	JW:	No, they’re chairs.



	H:	Oh, them chairs. No, they were folding—they folded. JW:	Yeah. Yeah.

	AW:	And they had a bathroom in the back of there— H:	Just like in theater.

	AW:	—had a bathroom in the back there, too.





	H:	Oh, we had many a play in there. Lot of plays. JW:	We helped them to the left there, Ar.

	H:	What’s that to the left?



	AW:	My personal office. I was a coach.



	H:	You see this Florida flag and the American flag there? What’s that in the middle? I don’t know what that is. No, I know what the whatdoyoucallit—it’s green, if I’m not mistaken.

	M:	So there was a balcony in the back? AW:	Yeah.

	M:	If we were facing the other way, there’d be—



	AW:	Yeah, there’d be a place where, in other words, all the student body that couldn’t get downstairs, they’d go upstairs, too.

	JW:	And they finally, on the Thornton Orbison, they finally converted it, the back, into classrooms. They made three classroom spaces out of it.

	H:	Because, what you’ve got to realize is, like, it wasn’t out of the goodness of they heart that they done that new school. That school has become very crowded.

Because they moved the grade school out of the main building. The grade school, all of the buildings you see extended out from it. They also had buildings from Camp Blanding, temporary buildings. They had a bunch of them over there, I don’t know—J, do you remember how many they had over there? They had a whole bunch of them over there one time.

	JW:	Oh, yeah.





	H:	They had buildings from Camp Blanding. That they drug up here. So, we were going to school in these portables that were surplus from the military.

	JW:	Matthis, what are the non-conformists, what do you call them? The non- conformist students? It was a school for them.

	H:	You’re not talking about—



	JW:	Those who don’t follow school policies and things of that sort. You take them, suspend them from the real school, send them over there.

	H:	That wasn’t that little building across the street that became the band building, was it?

	JW:	No, no, unh-uh. This right on main campus there. Not “alternative”… AW:	Yes, it is.

	JW:	Alternative would be—



	H:	Today it would be alternative.



	JW:	Yeah, alternative school. Yeah. Now, at one time, I thought about the idea—after retirement—of running for the school board. And if I had, one of the things that I had in mind doing was to abolish the alternative school. Because, now, I feel that getting an education is a privilege. And if you can’t conform to policies and whatnot to be a part of the school, then why should I provide a special school for you? And people used to ask me, say, now, “Welch, if you abolish that school, what you going to do with those kids?” I said, “I don’t give a damn what to do with them!”

	H:	No, no, no, no. You can’t do that. You can’t do that. [Laughter] I beg to differ with you. You can’t do that.





	JW:	I wouldn’t care!



	H:	You got to do something with them.



	JW:	At one time, I had a strong feeling about that, Matthis. Yeah. H:	See, the problem is—

	JW:	Yeah. And when this girl, she lost the last school board election—I can’t think of her name.

	AW:	Sharp.



	JW:	Sharp. Yeah, Sharp. When Ms. Sharp ran for the school board, a lot of people tried to get me to run for the school board because they didn’t like Sharp because of her husband. He used to be an officer, and he was—

	AW:	Code enforcer.



JW:  —a nasty type of person that people didn’t like, and so they disliked her. But I decided—see, I had brain surgery couple times, and after that I decided not to pursue any kind of work of any kind. And I retired November the 8th of 1970.

Yeah.



	H:	Oh. Where’s this at?



	M:	This is Lincoln. Those fountains? H:	Yeah.

	JW:	Oh, I remember those. They were outside of the boys’ bathroom. H:	Oh, okay.

	AW:	Yeah, right. And girls’ too, they had one on that side, too.



	H:	Yeah, they had something that looked like that downtown that say “Colored.” M:	Where were those?





	H:	God damn! That look like a shack, there! [Laughter] Oh, that’s a toilet? JW:	Yeah, toilet.

	H:	Schoolhouse toilet. [Laughter] Shit! AW:	That was before our time.

	H:	Yeah, I think that was. I think that was. I think that was during slavery times, then!



A little bit ahead of us.



	AW:	Yep, I remember the old desks!



	H:	Oh, them damn things were rickety and rockety! I don’t think the floor was that level, either.

	M:	One thing I’ve got to ask—it usually goes unremarked, but first you had Union Academy, then you had Lincoln High. I mean, was there ever any kind of tension with the White community over the names of the schools and things like that, or was that kind of overlooked?

	AW:	No. No.



	H:	The White folk probably named it Lincoln, didn’t they?



	JW:	But, I do know this, now. Lincoln High School never did equal Gainesville High School in any way. I’m saying that Lincoln High School never did. That’s my Lincoln High School. Because we had no physical education classes. We had no formal library in the school. In the science lab, I can name all of the scientific equipment we had. We had one microscope there, where at an average school you’d find, now, they have microscope for each student in the class. Maybe thirty or more. But at that time, we only had one microscope. Which showed that the powers that be didn’t care anything about the quality of education—





	H:	It was “separate and equal.” [Laughter]



	JW:	But we had a few dedicated teachers, again, like Thornton Robertson, and Thomas Benjamin MacPherson, and many others I can’t think of the names right now.

	D:	Did any of the teachers have to come out of pocket for… JW:	Yep.

	H:	Oh, I’m sure they spent they own money for things. JW:	Oh yeah. Oh yeah.

	H:	I had a teacher, name was—I think her name was Eunice Carter. I seen her take her money—but she was a dedicated, this was a elementary teacher. But I seen her take her money and buy things for the school out of her pocket. She was in a unique situation. She lived in a house where her sister and brother-in-law lived. So, she was rather independent. She also—when the school day ended at three o’clock, her class still went on. No, if you needed to leave, you could leave. But she would have projects and things for students to do. You might not get home ‘til five o’clock, because classes and things went on in her classroom. This is another teacher that really inspired me. We made things from—we had molds, these plastic molds. So we would make things, and then we would paint them, and then those were ours to take home. Sewing; she had a sewing machine in the classroom. Let me tell you this story, because I think Mr. Welch might remember this here. We had a kid that, in her class—and I think she was my teacher for at least a couple of years—but we had a kid in that class that came





in, and his nose was runny, and his clothes was nasty. He lived over there in that whatdoyoucallit, that Pistol—

	M:	Oh, Pistol Alley.



	H:	Pistol Alley. His name was Herman Riggins.



	AW:	Oh, yeah! [Laughter] You know the Riggins boy, Herman? JW:	[inaudible 4:43:32].

	H:	Yeah, you know the Riggins family, J! I know you know them. Right there where the whatdoyoucallit, they live real close to where that U-Haul place is there today.

	AW:	Yeah.



	H:	You go left there and start down there by that CVS, and somewhere on the left- hand side back over there, they lived. But anyway, this boy? Ms. Carter talked to him and talked to him. She said, “Son, you got to wash your clothes. You got to not come in with snot run out. You got to brush your teeth. You got to cut your hair.” Didn’t do nothing. He just kept on coming in like that. That lady brought this Chinese or either Japanese thing, where—there was a partition. And she brought a big old bathtub in there. I mean, a tub that you would wash clothes and stuff in. And she set that tub up—and I don’t know how she got the hot water, but she had hot water in there. And when we went to lunch, or either could have been during class, I’m not even sure, I don’t remember that well—she took, you know that Octagon soap? She took Octagon soap, a brush, a washcloth, and a towel, and she made him get in there and wash, and then anything he didn’t do, she did it. [Laughter] I think she cut the clothes off his ass that he had on. They were that damn nasty, okay? And bathed him, and cleaned him, and gave him new clothes.





She bought this stuff with her own money, or acquired it with her own money, okay? And she finished, and then she told him, she said, “Now, this is the way I want you to come to school every day” afterward. Now, I don’t think he immediately changed and everything, but he improved after that. Because this guy was one of my good friends, because my father knew his father. But, that’s the dedication that some of those teachers had, you know? And this particular lady, Mrs. Eunice Carter, her house was right in front of my father’s business. My father’s business was next to the Rose Theater. And he had an auto repair shop there. He’d had a number of businesses through the years, but there was the always the same thing, working on automobiles. And so, at the end of the day, she would bring me to the whatdoyoucallit, brought one car out, along with the other students, drive me there, and I would get out at her house, and then walk across the street to my father’s shop. And then leave there with my father and go home, or walk home if my father told me to go home, you know? But I would go there and assist my father with repair work on cars and things. And the kinds of things I would do is pump the brake while he bleed the brake or something like that. But I did little things around the station, which I really enjoyed. But—

	D:	So, she was essentially bussing kids.



	H:	No, no. These were select kids. This wasn’t just any old bum. These were kids that had time to stay, and wanted to learn something else. She might continue a lesson with these kids. It just really depended. But this was elementary school. And, we did a lot of things that were, like, projects. Building things. It might be one table for making potholders. Another table for painting the things that we had





made earlier in the day, the molds that we had made. It might be making ash trays. It might be just playing checkers or something, you know what I mean? But she had more game than you could imagine, in terms of—I don’t know where this lady went to school at. But this lady was a true teacher. And she was dedicated to students. And she was single, she wasn’t married. And she’d tell you that her students were her life. And everybody knew it, you know? And, oh, we just had more fun with her than a little bit. And she had a car that had four doors, and it was big, like a big Plymouth, or a big Dodge, or something like that. And it didn’t matter where you lived. At the end of the day, when she left, she dropped all the—you can’t do this now, you’d get put in jail for doing this now—but she would drop all the kids off at they house. You know? And she might spend some time talking to the parents. And tell them what they were doing, and what they deficiencies were, and what the kids might need to do to do better in school. You know? So, when report card time came, you didn’t necessarily need to go to her class to find out what your child did, because you probably already knew. But I’m certain that she wasn’t the only teacher that had that kind of dedication. But she stood apart from the other teachers.

	JW:	Who’s that?



	H:	This is Eunice Carter. JW:	Oh, Eunice? Yeah. Yeah.

	H:	I don’t know how many times I was in her class, but I know I was in there two times. But I wasn’t the only kid that liked her. The kids loved her. And she would challenge you. And she met kids where they were. And she would tell you, “Now,





son, you need to work on those three-time tables.” Or, “Mary, you need to practice your penmanship.” And she would give you something—and this the kind of thing she’d do. A lot of these materials and things she’d use, they were not made—store-bought. If you need to know cursive writing, she might make you up a chart with cursive writing. “Now, you carry this home, and you bring it back to school.” And you sit in there, like, not doing anything, or you finish ahead of the rest of the kids? “Bill, you need to practice your cursive writing.” So you whip out your whatdoyoucallit. “Mr. Welch, you need to be working on your four- time tables.” And pull out your tables. Or whatever it was you need to be doing, you would be doing. So, every kid in her class would not be doing the same thing, necessarily, all the time. And then, there would be the lessons where everybody would be together. She had a plethy [sic] of games there. When it came time to go out and play, there’s this one group that would be doing double dutch. Another might be doing single rope. She would have her own marbles, so boys could shoot marbles. But, I mean, that’s the way she was organized. Her program was together, you know? And again, she wasn’t the only teacher. But she was one of the ones that I remember that was very well-organized, and she had a program for them.

	AW:	I think the teachers back in those days was more dedicated toward teaching kids.



Because I mean, like you mentioned her, and Ms. Wright—Miss Wright down there, Ms. Witherspoon, all these people!

	H:	Oh! Oh, you mentioned one there! [Laughter] No, no— AW:	Our teachers, really, were dedicated.





	H:	What was the one that used to whip us with the fan belt? That was A.E. Wright? AW:	Yeah.

	H:	She lived in Reverend White’s house down there. AW:	Yeah, right.

	H:	Oh, we had this teacher. She was tall. I don’t remember where she went to school at. Do you remember her, J?

	AW:	I think she went to—



	JW:	I’m trying to think of it. Wright, Wright—



	H:	She lived in Reverend White’s house, there. Oh, man! This the way it worked: she would say, “Okay, you’re studying your five-time tables.” And she would come in, and she would go to the whole class, “You do your five-time tables.” Now, when you missed something, she would tell you what you missed. She’d say, “You missed your twos and your threes.” So, since you missed two, the punishment is probably double. So you going to get four licks. So yeah—so you’d remember what you missed. Okay? And you’d have it right! Because somebody would say, “Oh, no, Johnnie, it was whatdoyoucallit.” So that was double, since you missed. Okay? But she would go down the whatdoyoucallit. So, she would do all of the tables for the class. And you’d come up and say, “Ms. Wright, I missed five times two, and I missed ten times ten.” So you get four licks. And you put your hand out—and you put it out firmly, because she’d tell you, “I don’t want to hurt something; your hand got to be firm!” And she’d tear your ass up. And if class ran overtime, you’d be late to the next class, because your punishment was one of the most important things. And the next day, when you come in, you might





have to do that over, and then go to the next set of time tables. But this lady didn’t bullshit. You knew your math when you left out of there. And this was middle school. This was, like, eighth or ninth grade, something like that, that she taught, I believe.

	AW:	Ms. McLendon, she was over there at the elementary, and she had a spelling bee. And every letter that you missed out of every word that you spelled, you’d get a lick once.

	H:	This is Flossie McLendon.



	AW:	I mean, I can see that would motivate a kid to really get it. H:	Oh, yeah! [Laughter]

	JW:	But Arago, that was motivation to get it right. AW:	I know!

	H:	Who was the one that would put a board on your ass? We had a teacher where you had to bend over and touch your toes, and they had like a frat board.

	AW:	I think Ms. Wright was like that.



	H:	They’d tear your ass up with that damn board. Our teachers didn’t play. AW:	My cousin, Ms. Wright, she was like that.

	H:	Yeah. They didn’t play. They were very serious about whatdoyoucallit, like— AW:	Learning.

	H:	Yeah. There was no such thing as a kid that could not learn. And they would gauge where you are on that spectrum, you know? Now, you might be a little slow. So you might get a break if you were slow. But there were not a whole lot of slow ones, okay?





	AW:	But you know, I really feel that every kid is capable of learning. It just might take a little bit of time, or a little bit more effort in getting them to learn. Because I have a granddaughter who, when she first started school, she couldn’t recognize numbers for a long time. When she got into third grade, they repeated her because she couldn’t count. And her mother used to beat on her, call her all kind of name, and I told her, I said, “That’s not the way you teach anyone.” And I started going around in the evenings to help with her learning numbers and everything. And now, she’s in her last year of high school, and she is top in math.

	H:	Yeah. But he’s missing the point here: there are a couple of factors involved. As an educator, you learn in those education courses. Learning readiness. There is a concept called “Learning readiness.” Every kid is not ready to learn because you tell them that they need to learn. And the thing that I think that the Black teachers supplied to the students was the motivation needed to learn. Now, that’s missing from education today. Because, if you talk to Black parents today, they’re all up in arms if you think about it. Not hit they kid, but think about it. Or even talk to the kid in a rough manner. Well, that was nothing at that time. Talk to you like that? T.B. MacPherson might take you and punch your ass out with his fist! [Laughter] Those teachers didn’t play! We had a guy whose name was Bear Jones.

	JW:	[Laughter]



	H:	At Lincoln High School, they got these wide corridors. And I think they ripped them out now. But they used to have lockers right down the middle of these wide corridors. That’s the reason the corridors were wide. And you walking down





there, and you had on your shades like you outside? Bear Jones would reach over there on your face and take them damn shades, and say, “These are my shades, now.” And you might not ever see them shades again, okay? “You don’t walk down my hallway with no damn shades on in the building!” If you go outside the building, then you could do that. But that was that decorum and that behavior and stuff. T.B. MacPherson, he’d walk out there—like that door right there. This, you’re coming out of the gym, because you had to come through there to come out. Because we had a place where you put your clothes in a basket, and then that room was locked up. So, T.B. MacPherson would do this. You’re coming out, and he look at you, and you got sweat popping off you. “You didn’t take a bath!

	Come here!” JW:	That wasn’t him.

	H:	That wasn’t him?



	AW:	He would, [in rasping yell] “Get over here!” [Laughter] “I’m going let all the girls know how stank you is! Get on in there and take a shower!” [Laughter]

	H:	He might hit you with his fist first, and turn you around. So, you were so intimidated about walking out there and not taking a bath—unless you were a fool or something—that you going take a bath. Everybody took a bath.

	AW:	After P.E. Everyday.



	H:	So you had your towel. They would check uniforms on Mondays. You had a clean uniform, and it had “Lincoln High School” on here, and “Lincoln High School” on the bottom here.





	JW:	That’s how the Sergeant Lewis used to do it, Arago. That’s where your mother and I, we attended school there. Before going to Lincoln High School, that’s just

A. Q. Jones School, there.



	M:	The Sixth Street school, the picture on the—? AW:	Where was that at?

	H:	That’s Sergeant Lewis’s house?



	JW:	Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And after he moved into it, they improved it a whole lot.



But that was the original school. That’s the Jones school.



	H:	Sixth Street?



	JW:	Yeah. I attended school from primer through seventh grade. H:	That’s before our time, man.

	JW:	And my sister went from primer through fifth grade, right Arago? AW:	Uh-huh.

	JW:	We didn’t go to Lincoln school until I was in seventh grade, and Inez was in fifth grade—your mom was in fifth grade. And we went through that house right there.

	M:	How many students would go to school there? JW:	There? I imagine thirty-five or forty.

	H:	Now, how was that school supported, J? Financially, was there a church or something involved?

	JW:	You paid. You paid to go there, your parents paid it. They charged a fee.



	H:	So, was that considered better than Lincoln? Did Lincoln even exist at that time?



	JW:	Yeah, Lincoln existed at that time. I don’t know, we had two schools. We had that school on Sixth Street, and then we had another one over there on, I’m trying to





think if I can tell you where it was. It’s over on Arredondo Street, there are two tall two-story buildings there, and I can’t think of the lady’s name who operated it. But she operated it for many years. So, you had two private schools. That was one of them.

	H:	Were they accredited or anything, J? Were they accredited? JW:	Oh, no, no. No accreditation out of that. No.

	AW:	There was no such thing as that back then. JW:	Mm-mm. Mm-mm.

	M:	Do you remember one that was led—it was a Catholic school? JW:	No, no, no, it wasn’t Catholic, unh-uh.

	M:	Not that one, but do you know of one that was? JW:	Catholic school?

	AW:	[inaudible 4:59:28]



	JW:	There were no Catholic schools for Blacks in Gainesville.



	AW:	I think St. Augustine was about as close as they could get to the Catholic. JW:	That was Episcopal.

	AW:	St. Augustine was supported by Whites, though, I think.



	H:	We had to pay something. Because I remember my parents paying money. But, they got money from Whites for that school, I know that. It was only like kindergarten or something, or first grade.

	M:	But it was—oh, no, you already went to first. D:	Yeah.

	H:	Where was that at?





	JW:	Dorsey Jump, let’s see, Duworski over here. H:	Oh! That was before what’s-his-name, no?

	AW:	Watts, and…



	H:	That’s not Oscar Gilbert. Is that Duval? JW:	No, no, Duval was downtown.

	H:	[In synchrony with above] Downtown. Is that Mrs. Duval’s husband or something?

	JW:	Mrs. Duval’s husband’s father. H:	Oh.

		AW:	Operated that. And that’s one that Watts, Eugene Watts and Wheat 	? JW:	Yeah.

	H:	Yeah. AW:	Okay.

	JW:	Wait a minute, now. Mrs. Duval’ husband father operated the first, Arago. H:	I want you to go back to that Ralph E. London when you finished this here,

because I think you had some real gems there and didn’t know it.



	D:	Oh, definitely. I think that there’s a—I know there’s a photograph of the Duval shoe shop. Digital Collections?

	M:	Oh, yeah! No, we’ve got that here. I can get that off of the Share Drive. That’s in the Pleasant Street Historic—

	D:	Oh, the collection? M:	Slideshow, yeah.





	H:	Now, Duval Shoe Shop was run by our scoutmaster in later years. And he had a good business going there. He was married to Mrs.—

	JW:	Daphne Duval.



	H:	No, no, no. Pope. Pope. JW:	Oh, Edith—Edith Pope. H:	Mrs. Wheat. Mrs. Wheat.

	JW:	Edith Pope. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. H:	And she was a nurse.

	M:	Yeah, we got a whole bunch of pictures in here. H:	That’s Arago, when he was a little kid! [Laughter] D:	You looking for the—

	AW:	I used to play like that, now! D:	I think it’s right there.

	M:	Okay. Oh, that’s out of the newspaper, that’s from the—says it’s on East Union Street.

	H:	Hospital?



	M:	Wait, this is…



	H:	Right there. Little Arago there! [Laughter] Who the hell is this? Look like Grandma Moses or something.

	M:	Four generations of the Duvals. H:	Oh, that’s the Duvals?

	M:	I think so. I guess that’s the best they got there. I can probably find a different… D:	Oh, there’s Dr. Stafford—





	JW:	Now, that’s the kind I think, should be able to trace their family, Matthis, back to slavery. Oh, Chestnut?

	M:	Oh, yeah.



	H:	Yeah, I think you’re right. M:	Yeah, that’s it. It says—

	JW:	Yeah, that’s Stafford’s house there. D:	Yeah, “Stafford, dentist.”

	H:	Oh! Okay. Dude had a cross on the house there. Yeah. AW:	He’s a doctor.

	H:	Yeah. But he worked out of—had an office next to the house, look like. AW:	Uh-huh.

	M:	Oh, we’ve also got— AW:	The house still standing. H:	Mmhm.

	M:	This is from 1900, but— H:	Who the hell is that?

	M:	Baseball team.



	H:	This says “Gainesville” on it? D:	Mmhm.

	M:	Yeah. Well, it’s 1900, so that would’ve been a while back.



	H:	Yeah. That was quite a time before my time, I wasn’t even thought of. M:	I think that’s it though. Wait, wait. Could be over here…

	JW:	Dr. Julius Parker, I remember him.







M:

	That’s—that’s 	 graduation at Fisk.

JW:

Fisk University.

M:

Let’s see. Which one is he, can you tell, or…?

H:

You got the names in the bottom, now. Now who you looking for?

M:

Parker.

D:

Julius Parker? Oh, there he is, to the right.

M:

I can’t read it from here. Oh, okay. You can read it better [inaudible 5:04:24].

H:

Arago, do you know him? That’s Julius Parker.

JW:

Yeah. Yeah, yeah yeah.

M:

That’s his graduation picture.

H:

They had some smart dressing during that time, boy!

JW:

Oh, he went to Fisk! Here, look at that!

D:

But this is a picture of his family at Fisk there.

JW:

No, that’s the father Parker.

M:

Oh, that’s later, that’s his—

D:

Oh, okay.

M:

But is that him? Is that Dr. Parker?

H:

J? He’s asking you.

JW:

Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. That’s Dr. Parker. I recognize those



clothes.

H:

Now, who was he? I don’t know him.

JW:

That was before your time. [Laughter]

H:

It’s not the same Parker family, right?





	JW:	Yeah, right. H:	It is?

	JW:	Yeah. Oh, yeah.



	H:	Oh, yeah. Peter Parker?



	JW:	We not—she was a White Parker.



	H:	Yeah, I know. Mr. Parker worked there, though. JW:	Yeah. That’s Richard Parker’s father.

	H:	Yeah, yeah. That’s what I was talking about, yeah. Okay. JW:	His name was Leman.

	H:	Oh, okay. Yeah, yeah, right.



	JW:	Where is Dr. Parker, I didn’t see him there? M:	What do you remember about Dr. Parker?

	JW:	Well, he was one of the two old Black doctors we had in Gainesville. We had Dr.



Parker and Dr. Ayers. Both medical doctors.



	M:	Let’s see… That’s outside the Friendship Baptist. It’s all a bunch of—yeah, you can see the names there.

	H:	Fellow there with the light suit on him, like yeah, the high right and low left. AW:	There’s Reverend White there.

	JW:	There’s Reverend White. White the second one from the right.



	H:	Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. That’s White and Jones Funeral Home, White. D:	Oh, okay!

		H:	They lived right down the street from us. That’s they family, too. D:	You going to try to race the pictures from the 	?





	M:	Sure, sure. I was just—oh, that’s Samuel Hendley, I guess. JW:	Children, not too big, Arago.

AW:  Yeah, right.



M:  Fourth from the left. H:  Fourth from the left? M:  Yeah.

H:   Oh, the big guy?



	M:	Yeah, the big guy with the striped tie there, I think. H:	Oh, fourth from the left.

	M:	Because you’ve got James Wilhorns—



	JW:	I only recognize one of the persons in there, Arago, and that’s White. H:	That’s the only one I recognize, too.

	M:	Okay.



	H:	Who’s the fellow on the right? Because he look like somebody I remember. M:	James Palmer?

	H:	James Palmer.



	JW:	James Palmer.



	M:	Deacon, maybe? What’s the D-something? Deacon? [M is reading off of a small computer screen; the others are reading on the larger projection.]

	D:	Yeah.



	H:	What kind of damn shack is that—oh, Lord! Look at that damn— [Laughter] Just, the washtubs out there! You could see your clothes in the whatdoyoucallit! It’s just like, she turned around from a scrub board there!





	JW:	That house, I think, used to be located on the corner of Arredondo Street and Columbia Street.

	M:	Oh yeah?



	D:	What bank is this?



	H:	Oh, she got a serious wash tub thing going there. I think that lady did washing for people.

	JW:	Oh yeah. Yeah, yeah.



	H:	Yeah. Because she got a serious setup there.



	M:	So, when he says “occupation,” this was probably a serious business for her. AW:	Uh-huh.

	H:	Yeah, look: you see that thing out there on the right-hand side, on the bottom there? That look like it might be one of them damn pots that they lit up.

	AW:	Chamber pots?



	H:	No, you set a fire under that damn thing and boil them damn clothes, and get that dirt out of them. Yeah, yeah, and the stick then.

	AW:	In other words, that’s the way they’d get the dirt out of them. Yeah, when you take that stick and put it up, then put it in some cold water.

	M:	I got you. So these are the cold water buckets over here. H:	No, that’s the scrub. That’s where you scrub. You see— JW:	Okay. That’s a—

	H:	After you heat it up and you do that, you look at it. Still dingy or dirty, you take that stick, what he’s telling you about—it look like a oar or something—you lift it out, you put it over there in one of them buckets, might be room temperature, and





you take that scrub board and work on it some more. Then you put it back in there, and in that pot, some bleach or something down there. But you worked in them days. They became clean. You got through with them, by the time you’re out of there, there wasn’t no dirty stuff coming out of there.

	AW:	Yeah, see, what you do, when you take them out of that pot, you going to have another pot you got where the—

	JW:	And Jim Beauty, that used to Jim Beauty’ house. H:	Oh, okay, okay.

AW: Yeah, rug boil, you first get the dirt out too. And then you put them in the rinse water. The last water that you put it in, they have some kind of chemical called “blue in.” Blue-something. And you rinse it out. That’s your final rinse, yeah.

H:   Now, those people worked!



	D:	Who’s Jim Beauty? The guy who owned this house. Who was he? H:	Jim Beauty.

JW:  Yeah, that was Jim Beauty.



AW: He was a cook. Somewhere—what is it, fraternity house or something he would cook at?

	JW:	Jim Beauty? Uh, I don’t recall what kind of work he did.



	AW:	I just remember hearing him whistle when he was coming home. JW:	He would whistle.

	AW:	Yeah, but it sound like a bird!



	D:	How do you spell his last name?



	H:	Just like it sound. Beauty. B-E-A-U-T-Y.





	JW:	Yeah.



	M:	So that’s page 147. D:	Yeah.

	M:	Well, okay. The Lincoln Grill. Where was that? AW:	Lincoln Grill?

	JW:	Oh, yes! Now, Thornton Roberts owned that. That was directly across the street in front of the old Lincoln High School.

	H:	That wasn’t that little place on the corner, was it, that became the music room? JW:	The music room was his, too.

	H:	So he had two places down there. JW:	Yeah—

	H:	Because the next one would be his house.



	JW:	Next door, they had a thing built outside the front there, with awnings and all that sort of thing. And that’s the only cafeteria thing that we had.

	H:	Okay, okay.



	AW:	That’s it there.



	JW:	Yeah, that’s it there. That’s it. Five mool that interior. M:	What’d they serve there? What kind of food?

	JW:	Food. Regular dinner, yes. H:	This is a hole in the wall—

	JW:	The name of it the Green Parrot. Or, that was the name of this Lincoln Grill— Green Parrot.

	M:	Oh, so that’s what people called it. Okay.





	JW:	Yeah, that’s it. M:	How big was it?

	AW:	Couldn’t have been that big.



	H:	Yeah, you look at it! [Laughter] Look like it didn’t have but two or three tables in there.

	JW:	Well, they had a larger place outside, with awnings around it. And big umbrellas and things. It was beautiful.

	H:	I remember that. Yeah, I remember that.



	AW:	Now, was that right where the driveway was? What that place— H:	Next to it.

	JW:	Yeah.



	H:	Yeah, next to it. AW:	Okay.

	JW:	See, it’s between A. Quinn Jones’ house, and that— AW:	Oh, okay.

	H:	Yeah, see, because remember they had a big old brick house there. They’ve tore that down. I don’t know why they—

	AW:	I think it caught fire or something. H:	Oh, okay.

	JW:	Yes, the Green Parrot.



	M:	Oh, this is a map. Let’s see…





	JW:	Yeah, I knew Frank Pinder. The county agricultural agent, I remember him. His office was on Pleasant Street, directly across the street in front of Friendship Church. Frank Sumner. He was the county ag agent.

	M:	Did he come out a lot—or, what did he do? JW:	What did he do? Well, advise farmers.

	M:	So he’d travel out into the—



	JW:	Right. Advise farmers. They went to his office, or either, sometimes he went up to their farms and analyze farms that they had with the saw and all that kind of thing.

	AW:	Who was that? JW:	Frank Pinder.

	H:	Frank Pinder. Now, the person that I know that came along later on and had that job was named L.V. Davis.

	JW:	Mmhm, right.



	H:	L.V. Davis was a teacher. He taught Agriculture at Lincoln High School. But he would go out into the rural areas and talk to the farmers. He would go out there, and I can distinctly remember him picking up soil, and looking at it and stuff, and telling him this or that might be missing from the soil or whatever.

Recommending types of seeds and things. Demonstrating how to castrate a hog or something. But everything you needed to know about agriculture, he would—

	JW:	Not only that, Matthis, but L.V. Davis was the first person around Gainesville that I know of that actually went around encouraging Black people to try and vote.

	H:	Mmhm. Mmhm. Yeah, it was a full package.





	AW:	I thought Mr. Green was in agriculture too.



	H:	Later on. Much later on. L.V. was the first one. Mr. Green came in later on. Mr. Green came in during our time. And his wife was the music person for the Mt. Carmel Church. But she also taught music in school.

	D:	Did Davis receive any backlash for trying to get people to vote? JW:	That’s the old jailhouse, the original jailhouse.

	AW:	Yep.



	H:	No, because—



	AW:	Now, that one was over there where the old jail is, right?



	H:	—of the way he did it. See, he had two jobs. That’s the farm extension— JW:	No! No no.

	H:	—and agriculture teacher. So— AW:	Down there.

	JW:	Right.



	H:	So, he was enrolled as an extension officer— AW:	Yeah, okay, by there where the post office is now.

	H:	—probably part of his spiel, to talk to people. Now, I don’t know his education background, but he might be like a—

	JW:	You know where GRU is? AW:	Yeah.

	JW:	Gainesville Regional Utilities office. That’s over there in that green building there. H:	What’s the school where the peanut farmer came from?

	D:	Carver? Tuskegee.





	H:	Tuskegee, right. There’s a whole lot of people that don’t know about Tuskegee.



But they were very devoted to the whole person. You know, not just being a farmer.

	D:	Just like George Washington Carver. M:	You remember much about this jail? JW:	Yeah, I remember those gates.

	AW:	Yeah, I remember seeing it when I was a kid—



	H:	I did too. But what was up with that? That was a raggedy-ass building, falling apart even then.

	JW:	Yes, you know where GRU is?



	H:	Like it was made out of Silverstone.



	JW:	Gainesville Regional Utility headquarters? H:	Oh, okay. Yeah.

	JW:	Well, diagonally—if you go facing north, diagonally to your right would be the site where that was.

	H:	Oh, okay. And then they built the one, there’s another one, the county jail? That’s not the one that followed that. There’s another one that was further down there where they had the fuel depot down there. That was down that way. There was a county jail down there.

	M:	So I guess this is the poorhouse? Or?



	H:	I don’t even know if they had a poorhouse.



	M:	I’m assuming, because I don’t know why it would be a men’s bedroom if it’s a— H:	Probably a home for indigents.





	M:	So where would that have been? JW:	I don’t know where that was.

	M:	He probably explains it. We can go back through this and get some more— H:	It look like it was White. Poorhouse was poorer than the poor people ever be. M:	Yeah, that’s it there.

	H:	They got tin! It’s got tin on the outside.



	JW:	Oh, that house there is on Pleasant Street, Arago, isn’t it? AW:	I’m trying to picture it.

	JW:	Or, to your…



	H:	I think that was before—



	JW:	Diagonally to the right from Friendship Church. I think that house is. H:	Oh!

	JW:	Yeah. Yeah yeah.



	AW:	When you come out of Friendship Church there, on that left side, where roads are reach said. And it run right in front—that’s it, yeah!

	JW:	Yeah, that’s it.



	AW:	Oh, Lord! Poorhouse!



	H:	No wonder nobody didn’t live up in there!



	M:	That’s the bathroom there. So there was a day nursery that the—



	JW:	Oh, that’s what I wanted to tell you about. Now, we used to—you saw before the Sixth Street school. This was the other private school, Matthis.

	M:	Oh, okay. On North Grove?





	H:	Now, do you all see what they got there? That’s the Works Public Administration.



So, that was supported by some government money.



	D:	Were a lot of schools back then two stories?



	JW:	I know a lady that was in charge of the school for a long time. I can’t think of her name.

	D:	It seem rare that somebody would have a two-story house, and then renovate



[inaudible 5:17:45].



	JW:	Your Lud went to school here, Arago. AW:	Oh yeah?

	H:	Yeah, they gave them a lot of space there, man! Yeah, Gainesville had a whole bunch of two-story houses in the early days.

	JW:	We had—yeah, yeah.



	H:	You seen those houses that we got downtown and there? Where they got bed and breakfasts and stuff? Those houses were moved there from other places in Gainesville. Big-ass truck, they just jacked the damn thing up off the ground.

	JW:	That building’s still standing. Looks a lot better, and it’s still standing.



	H:	Yeah, in the [19]60s, they moved a lot of houses here in Gainesville. And when they wanted to widen the street—like University Avenue—a lot of those houses relatively close to the street. So rather than demolish them, they moved them somewhere. Now, this here would have involved work, moving a big one like that there. But—

	AW:	They would’ve moved it. There would’ve been no problem.





	H:	Yeah, no, that’s what I’m saying. They could move any damn thing they wanted to move. You see the equipment and stuff they had.

	AW:	I’ve seen them move a brick house.



	H:	Yeah. That’s the one that got me, when they did that. AW:	Yeah, really.

	H:	Move a brick house! Yeah!



	AW:	I mean, this was on the ground, and they went up under there, and some pound there—

	H:	Dug up under there, then put these big old heavy—either metal or wood, usually it was wood. And lift that sucker right up off the ground.

	JW:	Wabash Auditorium. That’s where all our proms and things used to be at. H:	Do I remember it?

	M:	Wabash.



	H:	It’s still there. JW:	Wabash Hall.

	H:	Wabash Hall is still there.



	AW:	Yeah. The building is still there. That’s all.



	H:	But that’s where they had all the dances and things from Lincoln High School.



Proms and things.



	JW:	They’ve re-roofed it now. AW:	They have?

	JW:	Mmhm. And it’s owned by that boy Sharp. Cleve Sharp? He owns it. AW:	Huh!





	JW:	But it was built in 1932 by Glover and Gill.



	M:	Wait, so this is the second floor, then, at that—



	H:	Right. The bottom floor was businesses. The top floor was a barroom. Always was. Man, I remember going to things down there in that damn place, and your ass would sweat. You’d be up in there—no, just the number of people that was up in there. Yeah.

	JW:	There was no such thing as air conditioning.



	H:	No, no no no no no no. You might not even have no damn fans up there! But they had some nice things up there. But our time was not the time when it was really great. It was during his time—

	JW:	Yeah—



	H:	—that that place—that place had soldiers coming from what I was talking about, Camp Blanding? That was a place to date—what they would do is they would have something, they might have a nice band in there, and they’d charge. And you’ve got to realize that up under there, there was a store up under there.

Walter’s—what was it called, Arago? Because the barbecue thing was next to it. So that wasn’t Hogwash’s B-B-Q. That had another name. I think “Bachman’s Store” or something.

	JW:	Was the Blue Room. H:	Was it the Blue Room? JW:	Mmhm.

	H:	Okay. So, they had a way. Now, in the back of that, they had another room back there. And I don’t know what that room was. Do you know, in the old days? It





became—no, it became the room—no no no no, nothing bad was going. That room became our scout master’s whatdoyoucallit for our troop. That, Mr.

Bartman allowed us to use it. And I don’t think he charged us a fee for it. So there’s another room that’s up under that right there—where you look at that stage, there?—that was… That was a pretty big room back there, Ar!

	AW:	Yeah.



	H:	And it had a separate entrance from the outside. Now, it may have been a door that went into the other part, also, but I don’t remember.

	AW:	Yeah, it did.



	H:	Yeah. And then they had another room before you got to the store part of it, that was where you had a television—was television back there? Because they had another little anteroom. The TV wasn’t always outside. There was a room back there where you could look at TV back there. Yeah. But I think that family came from someplace else, that Walter Bartman? Because that fellow was very enlightened and ahead of his time in terms of business, and—

	JW:	Now, Walter Bartman was not—wait, let me see, now… Chestnut. Mrs.



Chestnut, the old lady Mrs. Chestnut? Walter Bartman’s wife, and—I can’t think of the girl’ name. There were three sisters.

	H:	Oh, okay!



	JW:	Yeah. And Walter Bartman was the husband of one of the sisters. H:	Okay. Now where did he come from, now? Walter?

	JW:	Walter?



	H:	I don’t think he was a Gainesville guy.





	JW:	I always known him here.



	H:	I want to think he came from New York or something. AW:	How did Vurry get into that?

	JW:	Vurry? AW:	Yeah.

	JW:	Dewey Chestnut?



	AW:	Yeah. Last time I checked, it was a woman in there with the bag.



	JW:	Oh, you mean Chestnut building. I mean, you talk what bottom in there. Let me see, how did he get into that?

	H:	The three of them are sisters, Ar.



	JW:	Oh, Miss Chestnut was—the old, original Mrs. Chestnut. Okay, Charles Chestnut the 3rd. Now, his grandmother—

	H:	Mmhm, had two sisters.



	JW:	—yeah, had two sisters, right. H:	And one of them—

	JW:	And I’m trying to think of what the other one’s name was, I can’t think of her name. But anyway, I know them all.

	AW:	So she had to be kin to the Chestnut family. Yeah. H:	They were! Those were the same family.

	AW:	I remember she was a short, Black lady, real high-yellow. That woman had a bad



attitude for a little sort.



	H:	Mrs. Boltin? AW:	Yeah.





	H:	I don’t think you knew how that was. AW:	To me, she’s known as—

	JW:	Mabel.



	AW:	Yeah. Well, once they sent me over to the center of town to get some sauce.



Boy, she had an attitude problem.



	H:	She was very nice to us. AW:	Yeah?

	H:	Yeah.



	AW:	Maybe she didn’t like my look. H:	Yeah, maybe that’s what it was. JW:	And her name was Mabel.

	H:	Maybe a brighter woman—not saying it.



	M:	So I had a question. We’ve been trying to learn more about—some people have said that there used to be some Black businesses up on 13th. This is way back, probably before World War II, maybe before that. But they got moved.

	AW:	On 13th?



	M:	Basically got pushed out of the way when it became 441 and became— H:	It had to be before that. It had to be before that. Because—

	M:	Have you ever heard anything about—?



	H:	Mr. Welch would know. J, were there any Black businesses on 13th Street, in the old days? If he says he don’t remember, I don’t think they were there.

	JW:	No, not a single one.





H:  There may have been bus—you know, I think what they were talking about is something may have been close to 13th, but it was on 5th Avenue. They could have—

	AW:	At Y.T.



	H:	Yeah, something like that. AW:	Yeah, that was close to 13th.

	H:	Could have been something where they did sandwiches or something, or— because that, 13th became a White business street for sure.

	JW:	Another guy owned that business, and he was before Y.T. Y.T. came in from Starke.

	AW:	Yeah, I know.



	H:	Yeah, where was Y.T. at?



	JW:	You know why Y.T. came to Gainesville? You know how he came here? Y.T. ran over and killed a White woman in Starke in the car. Was driving under the influence. And they told him to leave Bradford County, and he came to Gainesville.

	AW:	Okay. You know where—



	H:	Was it Rockfront Store? Somewhere around there? Where the Halls?



	AW:	Okay, coming in from 13th Street, coming up 5th Avenue. You know where they had them housing projects all tore down? Right there in that vicinity is a big building right across the street there. It’s still standing. Right in front of that, Y.T. was there. He had the hottest barbecue sauce you could name, and a lot of students used to go there and challenge other students to—





	H:	Eat the hot barbecue— AW:	—sauce, yeah. [Laughter]

	JW:	Now, Arago, now who Y.T., there was another guy from Ocala. His father was



	founder of a Black bank in Ocala. Before Y.T. M:	But that’s pretty close to it, that’s not that far. AW:	It was a barbecue place then?

	JW:	Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. AW:	Okay.

	M:	Well, we’re out of pictures on this guy.



	AW:	Well, I don’t think there’s ever been any Black business on 13th Street. JW:	Never. Never.

	H:	Now, wait. 13th wasn’t much of anything anyway. 13th had hotels and things. I think motels and things were on 13th.

	JW:	Well, I take that back, they did have one there. Because you and I went to one. Remember the guy who used to repair TVs? Remember the guy, he was right there on the right-hand side there where—that store where you go and buy herbs and things?

	AW:	Okay, you talking about Mother Earth?



	JW:	Yeah, Mother Earth. Right in there, one Black guy had one business there, but he repaired TVs, that’s only thing. And only Black that I can think of.

	AW:	But back up in there, 13th Street.



	H:	Well, Allad used to run down there.



	AW:	Right, a little Allen Gennup. Mmhm. That was not on 13th Street.





	H:	And that was in recent times. That wasn’t way back when. Because TVs isn’t goods. So he couldn’t have, way back.

	AW:	I know it had to be back in the [19]60s. H:	[19]60s, [19]70s?

	AW:	Yeah.



	M:	I wouldn’t guess you’d recognize him here, but this is Gaston Cook. I don’t know if you remember him.

	JW:	Gaston Cook?



	M:	Yeah.



	JW:	Yeah, I knew him.



	M:	Yeah, that’s him there. H:	The little boy?

	M:	Yeah.



	JW:	Oh, yeah! I knew Gaston! I declare! [Laughter] Mm-mm-mm!



	H:	Now, Gaston Cook was the principal of a school. Which school was he principal of?

	JW:	Uh, the one down in, I don’t— H:	Sixth Street? Eighth Street?

	JW:	I don’t know what that school is. H:	Duval. Wasn’t it Duval?

	JW:	No. The school— AW:	Williams Elementary.

	JW:	Williams Elementary, right. Yeah, Williams Elementary. I declare!





	H:	Boy, Gainesville was lush as I don’t know what during that time! Look at all that vegetation and stuff there. Just leafy as I don’t know what!

	M:	It’s got to be an old picture, too.



	JW:	I can tell you where he was raised, Arago. Gaston Cook. You know on Sixth and Third? Well, off of Sixth and Third.

	H:	[Looking at projection] That’s Charles Chestnut Funeral Home there. JW:	Northeast, Arago.

	H:	In the old days. Oh, Union Academy.



	M:	That seems like a pretty big building, though, for when it was built. H:	I assure you it wasn’t built for Black folk original.

	JW:	Yes it was!



	H:	Oh, it was?



	JW:	Mmhm.



	H:	Oh, okay.



	AW:	And where was that? Is the building still standing? JW:	No no, no no. They tore it down to build the center. AW:	Oh, okay. Yeah.

	JW:	My grandmother went to school there. H:	This Mt. Pleasant.

	JW:	Mt. Pleasant, yeah.



	M:	Let’s see. They had this picture because Bessie Brown was in here. JW:	Bessie Brown?

	M:	Yeah, right here, I think.





	JW:	Yeah, look at her! Yeah, she was a teacher at Lincoln. Forked off Home Street. M:	There she is again. That right?

	JW:	Huh! Yeah, I remember her. D:	What was her maiden name? JW:	Bessie Brown.

	D:	Is that how Mr. Branton has pictures of Bessie with A. Quinn Jones.



	M:	I don’t know. Might be the same person. We’ll look into that. That’s the Stafford House there.

	JW:	Stafford, yeah.



	M:	We already saw that one. H:	What was that?

	JW:	His face look familiar.



	M:	That’s—one of them’s Claronelle Smith-Griffin, I think, and— JW:	Claronelle Smith?

	AW:	Yes.



	M:	And Ms. Virgil Smith.



	JW:	Now, you know, didn’t you, Claronelle Smith? H:	Not by name.

	JW:	Well, she was a person that never would reveal her age. Now she came along with my mother as a child. They went to Union Academy together. She died here recently, and her house is on the corner of Arredondo Street and Eighth Avenue. The big two-story house?

	H:	Mmhm.





	JW:	That.



	H:	Now, which one’s Arredondo Street? JW:	I think that’s Fourth Street now.

	H:	So it’s a bicycle shop there. It’s next to the bicycle shop. JW:	Yeah.

	H:	Yeah, right off of Eighth Avenue. JW:	That tall, that two-story house there.

	H:	Right down the street from the police station there. [Several people talk over each other at once]

	JW:	Her father was a letter-carrier. In fact, most of the Blacks that owned large homes in Gainesville were letter-carriers. Or either bootlegged. Those were the big sharks.

	M:	So it paid well to be a letter-carrier. H:	And to be a bootlegger.

	M:	Well— [Laughter] Did they brew much—



	JW:	That’s my classmate there on this, here. [Laughter] Cosby. H:	Which one’s Cosby, up in the back?

	JW:	Left here, left-hand side.



	H:	The man with the suit on there in the front?



	JW:	Oh, the man with the suit, that’s probably J.E. Parker there. H:	Yeah. So that’s Cosby in the back.

	D:	He said the woman was Cosby.



	H:	Oh, the woman was Cosby. Oh, okay.





	JW:	Yeah. And that’s the Cosby boy. Now, I was thinking that he was going into medicine too, but he didn’t. He died early.

	AW:	Well, I got to get ready to go because I’ve got another appointment. [Continued discussion on that theme.]

	JW:	That’s Reverend White, Arago. H:	That’s Reverend White, yep.

	M:	Him and the choir, according to the picture. H:	Yeah, what choir?

	AW:	Friendship. Yeah, he was the pastor there.



	H:	Ah, okay. This guy had a lot of roles around town! AW:	Yep! He was a bishop.

	H:	Now, where did he come from? You know? JW:	Hague.

	H:	Hague! [Laughter]



	JW:	Yeah, Hague. That’s where—



	H:	Lot of people came in here to the big times in Gainesville! [Laughter] JW:	That’s where he was born.

	H:	Do y’all know where Hague is?



	JW:	Now, at one time he was a teacher. And he quit teaching profession to go into the postal service. And from the postal service, went into the funeral home business.

	H:	Arago—where’s Hague?



	AW:	Okay, just before you get to—





	H:	121? 121?



	AW:	Alachua.



	JW:	41. Or not 441, 41.



H:  Oh, okay! By Midway down there. You know where that John Deere tractor is? That’s Hague down there. There’s a road where you go the right, and then you go to Hague.

JW: [of projection] To your right there. M:  Oh, yeah!

D:   Who is that?



	M:	Susie May White, right? JW:	Right.

	M:	Yeah, right here. H:	Oh, okay.

		AW:		 he got married to. H:	Oh, he married her?

	AW:	She was Ms. White when she died. JW:	She was 101 years old.

	AW:	Yeah.



	H:	That look like a Tasker Good next to her, man! JW:	A tasker?

	H:	That look like a Tasker Good next to the Reverend White there, the woman who’s standing next to him?

	JW:	Uh-huh.





	H:	Who was that woman, do you know?



	JW:	You mean the Tasker that lived directly behind Friendship Church? H:	Yeah.

	JW:	Used to live—that may be. That may be. H:	Who is that woman? Do you know?

	M:	I’m not sure.



	H:	Yeah, that look like Rosemary Good’s mother. AW:	Yeah, it does.

	H:	Uh-huh. Sure does.



	M:	We do have other notes and stuff, I can see.



	H:	Yeah, her name would come up interestingly. Because it’s kind of unusual. I don’t think I know of another Tasker in Gainesville. Now, who is that?

	M:	Laura Anderson. H:	Don’t know her!

	JW:	That’s Deacon White! [Laughter] AW:	I used to love to hear him preach. M:	He was a good speaker?

	AW:	Yeah. Oh, yeah!



	JW:	Actually, he was the first speaking-type minister in Gainesville. H:	In other words, he did no screaming and hollering.

	JW:	That’s right.



	M:	J.O. Butler? Doretha Butler? These are probably old, I’m guessing that’s Alvin Butler’s family. Minnewith Guild.





	H:	I don’t know, but I know he’s dressed to kill. And so is she! AW:	Now, Dorsey Funeral Home, that used to be White.

	H:	Yeah, I remember where that was. That’s on Pleasant Street, was it? JW:	Yeah, it’s Pinkney Funeral Home now.

	AW:	Still look the same.



		JW:	That’s 	 brother, Arago. That’s Ben Williams. Used to work for White and Jones Funeral. That house there is on Gordon Street, Arago.

	H:	They didn’t know what lawn was worth during that time, did they? [People talking over each other]

	M:	A.C. and Annie Butler. JW:	Who we got, now?

	M:	A.C. Butler and Annie Butler? JW:	Mmhm. Okay.

	H:	Boy, homeboy had a cool had, didn’t he? Look like an Australian there! M:	Yeah, if they can restore that picture…

	JW:	That’s his own, on Gulf Street there. They may have torned it down by now. H:	Yeah. Look like they were getting ready to tear it down there.

	AW:	Might be around.



	M:	Yeah, they might have actually been rebuilding it. Alvin Butler, and then a bunch of his cousins.

	H:	Everybody’s one in there.



	M:	I think that’s Alvin right there.



	H:	Tell you what: they didn’t miss nobody. All right! Go back to that fence.





	JW:	Now, I’ll tell you that was on Sixth Street.



	AW:	[Laughter] Yeah! That’s next door to Sergeant Lewis. H:	Oh, okay. Oh!

	JW:	And next to the Sixth Street school, too, Arago. Yeah. AW:	Yep. Behind there, Ms. White building a daycare.

	M:	Oh, okay. What was the name of that daycare? H:	It’s still there.

	M:	Oh, okay. That one’s still going.



	H:	Yeah, it’s still there. There’s a brick building there now, though. AW:	That’d be variable beginning.

	H:	It was?



	AW:	Yeah.



	H:	Oh, okay.



	H:	You know, Ms. White had a substantial amount of money. Because if you look at her real estate holdings around town and the county, she had quite a few holdings. That’s the one that died a few days ago.

	M:	Mamie Miller?



	JW:	I think I recall her.



	M:	Looks like somebody—



	H:	Do you remember people wearing dresses like that? Because that was lot help



my time, I think.



	JW:	Yep.



	H:	I don’t remember those flow supers like that.





	M:	That’s a recent picture. Laura Anderson again.



	H:	That’s one of those quilts. That’s one of those nice quilts. Flour sacks. M:	So that’s the kind they used to do?

	JW:	Oh yeah.



	H:	Yeah. There’d be a lot of other things in there. But a lot of that’s flour sacks, though.

	M:	What would they use for the batting to keep it warm? H:	Oh, they’ll stuff the inside.

	M:	With what?



	AW:	Cotton.



	H:	I think they would buy cotton that was, like, already rolled out or something.



And—see, these things here, these little squares and things? You’d see them stitching them together. They could be sitting down there like we talking here, and stitching those together. And then that matting, they would buy. And then they would, like, go through it so it would stay in place. It wouldn’t, what do you call it—I don’t know if it was ties or quite how they did it. But I seen them do that stuff.

	AW:	And sometimes, they would dunovate it with other calls.



	H:	Mmhm. I think the answer is, there was not a single form as to how those things were done. The outside would look a certain way, but the inside, like he said, there was a lot of different ways they did it. I got—my grandmother, I got one in my house now. Those damn things are heavy as hell, yeah! And when it was like really cold, you put that overtop and your ass will burn up, boy! Yes, sir! Now, this





dude is clean as they come, and so is she! My man got up a high right or low left! [Laughter] You see it? Ar? You remember the high right and the low left? He wearing that bad boy strongly! It look like he got one of them shirts, Ar, with the pin that went though the collar. To get the bottom up?

	AW:	They don’t make them with collar like that now.



	H:	Oh, no. And the shoes, they out of this world. That look like whats-his-name,



Brady Smith there.



	M:	Got Fiola and Uliya Porter.



	H:	All right. That’s a good-looking girl, though. That boy look like he just came in off the farm.

	M:	Julius Parker?



	JW:	Julius Parker?



	M:	I’m not sure which one—one of these two, I guess. They don’t know what residence this one is.

	H:	That look like the Sixth Street Church. That ain’t no doggone church— JW:	No, no!

	H:	That’s somebody’s house.



	JW:	That look like Sixth Street School.



	AW:	Yeah, it do. Sergeant Lewis and wiles. JW:	Yeah. Yeah, that’s it.

	M:	Okay. Just got it flipped around.



	H:	I saw this way up off the ground like they were anticipating a flood. You right, it



did sit up off the ground! You right.





	AW:	You go by there, you still see all the renovations in it. JW:	Oh, yeah. I see something I recognize from over there. H:	Them damn stones come up to the lady’s waist, almost. M:	Yeah, it’s way up there.

	H:	Yeah. Those summer houses were like that, though. They sat up pretty high, though.

	M:	Did you get a lot of floods? H:	No.

	JW:	No.



	H:	No.



	M:	Claronelle Smith, Virgil Smith.



	D:	Looks like Tom Hanks, a little bit? [Laughter]



	M:	This is a painting by Aline—oh, what’s her name?



	H:	I don’t know, but it look like you got some dues on it, I know that!



	AW:	Have you had anyone talk about the greatest band director we had at Lincoln,



Flo Dilly? Jaravilla? He was something else.



	H:	That Duval Shoe Shop again?



	M:	I mean, I’ve heard Flossie McLendon was the one who led the band in the parade, wasn’t she?

	JW:	Yeah.



	AW:	Who’s that?



	M:	Flossie McLendon.



	AW:	Yeah. She was a schoolteacher. Elementary schoolteacher.





	M:	But what I’d heard was, she, one year—they wouldn’t invite the Lincoln band into the Gainesville parade, maybe it was the Homecoming parade, and so she just had everybody march right in anyway. They kind of crashed it. Do you remember that?

	AW:	Do you remember that? About Lincoln marching in the parade one year? JW:	Mm-mm.

	H:	He’s saying that Flossie McLendon led the parade. Led the band. And just crashed the parade.

	AW:	I don’t know. I’ve never heard of that one. But that band, at Lincoln then, was always in any parade there was around here.

	JW:	Oh, the Lincoln High School band was the most classical band that there was in central Florida anywhere. Highly respected.

	D:	Where was the band director from, you said?



	JW:	Where was he from? Jerry Miller from? Jerry Miller from Tallahassee. Leon County.

	M:	We can always keep pulling out more pictures, but we don’t want to take up the rest of your evening.

	H:	Yeah, that thing with London. Can you pull that back up? Reverend London? I wanted to see what that was. Because that—

	D:	Which one, the C.C. London? No, not C.C. London— H:	No, Ruffie. R-U-F-F-I-E.

	D:	Oh, yeah!





	AW:	One thing about Jerry: anywhere that he went, the White as glad to see the band as the Black was.

	JW:	Oh, yeah. Yeah yeah.



	AW:	I mean, they really would tell— JW:	Oh, his band was something else! H:	I think you picked the wrong one.

	JW:	I would say Lincoln High School had the best band that there was in this part of Florida. And the Mebane school had the best chorus.

	AW:	Yeah. Oh, yeah. Because I remember Lincoln would compete against them for the District professional.

	H:	No, that’s not what you want—go back, because you’re in the wrong part. Okay, Ruffie London—right there where it says “Lincoln High School classmates.” You see that? 54? I think this is the son. Come on down. Come on down a little more. Right there. I think that’s the son. I think that’s the one that’s the son of the one we’re trying to get to. This is the one that I think was band director.

	D:	Yeah, there isn’t any information on it. H:	Okay, go back.

	M:	Yeah, they make you pay to find out anything here.



H:  Okay, let’s see. The reason I want y’all to find this guy, this guy—I think he was charged with murder or something. This guy was charged with murder, the one I’m telling you about.

JW:  Ruffie London, he did taught out at A&M.





	H:	Yeah, no, that one did. But that’s the son of the one I’m trying to get him to get to. No, this one you’d find in the whatdoyoucallit I’m talking about. Where you would be—what is it, 1918, draft registration, Ruffie London? Look at that.

	M:	In Levy County.



H:  Now, he may have come from someplace else here. But this is the one that was married to the lady that was, the nurse. And she was a whatdoyoucallit. The one that brought the babies into the world.

AW:  Midwife.



H:   Yeah, midwife.



	JW:	The Long family one of the biggest farming families in Alachua County at one time.

	H:	Well, don’t worry about it, but I thought it was there.



	M:	We should be able to look it up at some point and see what we can find.



	H:	This guy, there’s a lot of articles in the Gainesville Sun about this guy. Because, what happened, I think this guy had a White girlfriend or something, now. No, he killed a White guy. That’s why I wanted to see if you could find him. Because it would definitely be something in the Sun about that guy, in the Gainesville Sun. Because they specialize in slapping stuff like that on the front page. You know, the sensationalism.

	M:	Well, what do you know about the story?



	H:	Not that much. Not that much. I just know what I’ve heard, like little remnants like that. But when I came along, there wasn’t that much there. Did you know anything about Ruffie London, J?





	JW:	Ruffie London?



	H:	Yeah, the old man. Not the son.



	JW:	You know, he was a bootlegger. Biggest bootlegger—



	H:	Oh, okay, so he was a bootlegger? And did he kill somebody, J? JW:	Yes, he did.

	H:	Yeah. Yeah. See? That’s what I was talking about.



	JW:	And he was worth money. He was worth money, because he was a bigtime bootlegger.

	H:	All right. You folks ready to call it a day? M:	Well, thank you very much.

[End of recording]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, June 5, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, July 11, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 23, 2019