AAHP 101; Hightower; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 101 Willie Joe Hightower Jr.

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Anna Brodrecht on August 21, 2010

38 minutes | 21 pages



Abstract: Willie Hightower discusses his experiences attending Jerkins High School in Perry, Florida. He graduated in 1968, two years prior to when the school was closed during integration. He describes some of the frustration in the community during integration, as well as various aspects of Jerkins’ curriculum and athletics programs that endeared it to the community. He also relates some of his family history in terms of moving to and living in Perry. Mr. Hightower served in the US Air Force reserve during the Vietnam War, and he describes some of that experience also. Upon returning, he attended Florida A&M University, and at the time of the interview had just retired from a thirty-five year career with the US Post Office.





Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School; US Military Veterans]











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 101

Interviewee: Willie J. Hightower Jr. Interviewer: Anna Brodrecht

Date: August 21, 2010



	B:	So I’m going to start out by introducing myself. I’m Anna Brodrecht from the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. And I guess we’ll start out by getting you to say your name and spell it.

	H:	Okay. My name is Willie J. Hightower Jr. W-I-L-L-I-E; middle initial J, J-O-E, and H-I-G-H-T-O-W-E-R, J-R.

	B:	When did you go to Jerkins High School—or, Jerkins first through twelfth? [Laughter]

	H:	I think I started in [19]58, and graduated in [19]68. B:	Okay. So, you went second through—?

	H:	First.



	B:	First through twelfth. Okay. So you’re one of the long-timers. Because I’ve talked to some people that just went for a few years, or just went for high school. But you did the whole thing.

	H:	I did the whole twelve years. [Laughter]



	B:	And it wasn’t always in this building, but did you go to some of the churches and the Masonic Lodge?

	H:	No, my school tenure was always right here [knocks], on this property. So, I did first grade through twelfth grade where we are today.

	B:	Okay. And so what was it like? Describe an average school day.



	H:	An average school day. You know, when you left home, you just come to school. You was born to your teachers. You were gonna learn, because if you cut up in school, I got a beating in school. Teachers back then obeyed different rules.





They truly cared about their students, and it made you want to learn, and it gave you the initiative to put forth the effort to learn, because of the care that they exerted for the students. They made the atmosphere. I’m one that they cared for. You felt as though they were folks that really cared about the school.

	B:	And you finished Jerkins before the integration?



	H:	Two years before. My class came out in 1968. I think my brother, Marcus Hightower, his class was actually the last class to remove their tassels in 1970.

	B:	Wow. Was he excited that he was going get to graduate from here?



	H:	Yes, he was, because my other brother, Terry—which was a year behind me, and he came out in [19]69—with him being athletic, played football at Jerkins, they took Terry to their football team, to lead them all to State. So they didn’t get to go to Jerkins. My brother and them, they went to Taylor County, there. Went to [inaudible 2:48], just a technical school. They refused to pick us out here our senior year. For their senior year, they went to Taylor County High when integration happened. And they were the stars of the football team here, too.

	B:	And that was a decision that they made as part of the integration. They said, “If we have to go—”

	H:	“—we’re not going to play.” And they wouldn’t play.



	B:	Wow. So, there was a lot of resistance here about moving? Can you describe that? Why that is?

	H:	That, I really can’t describe, because when the move came about, I was already gone. So, I really can’t. I know about my brothers and how they talked to me about how they grew up. But it was, they felt as though they only took that





particular class because you had all the starters on the football team, his class had six starters. Once my class graduated in [19]68, both the football teams consisted of my brother’s class that was involved in [19]69. Instead of closing the whole school, they just took that class, and moved that class over. Because they knew that they was getting big in all of their athletes. So when they went over, they said, “Well okay, we got to go to other places.” But I don’t experience what other people pick up.

	B:	Wow.



	H:	It is. Now, my experience, I graduated in [19]68—and I only have [inaudible 4:26]. And if it hadn’t have been for these four walls, when I was here as a junior in that cafeteria there, I started into music, probably when I was in seventh grade, playing flute, and then I came back to trumpet. Nathaniel Hank was the only tenor saxophone they had at the school. Hank graduated four years before me.

His senior year, six months before he graduated, he taught me how to play the tenor. So I put the trumpet down, played tenor for the concert band, and trumpet for marching band. And once, I remember, my senior year, I approached my band director here in the main ad, said, “Well, I think I want to play saxophone for the band.” See, that’s what the ladies like. Thought I would slay!

	B:	[Laughter]



	H:	And that’s what I did. I was able to—myself and Jane Washington, which was another saxophone player—was able to write a song our senior year. And it was a pretty good song and all, on the field up there at our last football game. It’s an experience that I hold dearly.





	B:	Yeah! So, there was a pretty developed music program at Jerkins.



	H:	Yeah. Very developed. We had a jazz band. We had the woodwind ensemble. We were very competitive when it came to music festivals, band festivals, as well as big clubs in hereabouts. And, we had our high honors. Whether it was in flag-waving, or marching band, cowput, Jerkins was well-known throughout the state of Florida. Yes, it was. Orange and green, that’s all I ever knew. From the first grade through college, that’s all the color I ever knew.

B:  Oh, goodness. That’s awesome. And I’ve heard that the football team was also really good, which probably helped—the band was holding its own anyway, but that gave them a place to perform.

	H:	Right. It gave us an arena to perform in. Because to have a team of that caliber, yeah, you created a crowd wherever you went. And they would always get Jerkins to do the Jones how or whatever. The color of the school itself probably brought a lot of attention to the band. But the school itself—

	B:	Nice.



	H:	I was very fond of it. This made me the person I am today.



B:  And the support that you got from your teachers was probably a big part of that, too.

	H:	It was.



	B:	Do you remember what kind of—I mean, was it all just straight-up mathematics and arithmetic and reading or stuff, or were there other lessons, you know, like—

?





	H:	You had lessons of life. From your clubs, and people got into the teaching for [inaudible 7:30] and all that. You had those in place, basic education in schools. It was as though you was at home. They paid for training if you got into the door, takes a long way to get back. Because they instructed us. You would see them every day. Not only would you see them in the classroom; you could see it in the community when you’re there. So, it made you want to do good behavior, one could say. Because anywhere what I get on let go, anyone going to be able to be able to parent anyway. So it made you want to just, “Okay, I don’t want Mom and Dad to be mad at me for not doing what I’m supposed to do.” So I don’t care how you can do it, just get an education. So, I learned to read, write—whatever it is—to prepare myself, because they want more for me than what they had. And the instructors just made that atmosphere made right, really.

	B:	Were there people whose parents didn’t really seem to care? It seems like today there’s so many parents that are just like “Meh, you know, whatever.” They go there almost like it’s a daycare or something.

	H:	Well, I think don’t know they’re on stage problems, but that, of that making pages of having pages. And that and the school average, maybe still has broken. That’s been the very problem. So, I mean, I don’t know if everybody, a few some didn’t wake. I look at Jerkins now [inaudible 9:11]. And all this tawdry fourliner. It’s not the same. When I left in [19]68, the streets was fine. I mean, we could walk around the port here. You didn’t have to lock the door. You just go; you didn’t have to do that. Because everybody knew everybody. But today’s





society, I mean—integration was good. Another sense, it was bad. Because now, you are sitting with your doors down, four down four, it the net it could fight.

They get you your number in the school time. Jerkins was like a neighborhood school. It bonded. And if you go there, you don’t have a way of getting past it— [inaudible 10:05]. Here, a regular bake Jake was my math instructor. I came out in in [19]60, way after for six years. Stayed there and watched the basketball.

Mathematics [inaudible 10:27]. It didn’t work out the way I wanted. Six years later, I made roll on my first term papers. And my first pass at [inaudible 10:38]. And I was slick out of school six years [inaudible 10:51]. We would be going down a hundred and thirty people go down at the carver store. Everybody still go down there. I don’t. He asked me my name, I told him. Called me up to the board, gave me a piece of chalk, I went to write. But I say it to you like that. He say, “You excused, so you got your grades.”

	B:	[Laughter] Oh my gosh!



	H:	And everybody looked. “How you get out of here?” He knew I would sell my books. Just on over by the Beizier stopman, that’s where I would hide out. “Did you just reprimance me?” I just get out and go to it. I could be six years old. I learned that at six years old, in [19]40. And it’s amazing that, because it’s a small school, but we were taught the politics of slavery. It’s what we lived, and grandfather told me; he would [inaudible 12:08] because we had that foundation. So I thank God for Jerkins. I really do.

	B:	Let me hand you this, because I think they’re talking a little louder than we are. [Laughter] Just make sure we get a recording. And so, did your—you said that





your teachers lived in the community. Did they—I’ve heard stories from other communities that the teachers actually lived in the houses of students because they came from out of town. Was that the case here, or did they live here?

	H:	They lived here. There are some that taught and stayed with some adults within the community, but the majority of our teachers here at Jerkins stayed in the community itself.

	B:	Okay. So they would’ve been raised up in the Jerkins system, and then decided to be teachers here.

	H:	And some just came to Jerkins and taught school here.



	B:	Okay, so tell me a little more about your family. About your, who’s your mom or dad, or your grandparents. Were they around, and had certain things that you were just insistent that you learn?

	H:	Ooh, yes, Lord! [Laughter] Yeah, my grandma, Pinka Lee Jones, Earletha Watson, my dad Willie J. Hightower Jr., which was one of the earlier classes here in Jerkins. My mom, Gladys L. Watson, she was one of the earlier classes. She was in the, what they called back then the “Brain Club.” My dad played football, played basketball. He was also in the Glee Club, the male chorus. I found out today that he was the director of the male chorus. So, I always wondered where I got my talent from, and now I know. But yeah, they insisted—my mom was a schoolteacher. My dad worked out at Proctor and Gamble, one year short of medical school. His brother is a doctor and a dentist; he lived in Akron, Ohio. He gave me a lot of knowledge when it came to medical, because every time he’d come down, I’d start a thing, he would let me leave with the medical bills. So I got





a very real course back when it comes to the human body. My dad theory—he and my mom—their theory on life was, you don’t have to work. Your only job is to go to school and get an education. Now, not to say that we didn’t have responsibilities around the house, because all of us did. But some of my friends, they had jobs after school. Dad said, “No, that’s me and your mom’s job. We’re here to provide. Your job is to go to school, get your education, and better yourself for tomorrow.” Dad did take care of it like that. So, if I came to school and messed up, well, I was depending on that my mom was working. Or else she knew firsthand, so then I got three beatings: I got a beating by the teacher, I got a beating by my mom, and my dad got me when he got home. That’s too much trouble! That’s too much trouble. I’m serious.

	B:	Better stay straight! [Laughter]. H:	I’m serious. I’m serious. Yes.

	B:	Well, you mentioned doctors and medical care and things. What was Perry like as far as going to the doctor?

	H:	Hm. You know, now that you ask that question, in my entire time I can’t recall ever going. No.

	B:	Is that because there were home remedies that you could use? H:	Possibly.

	B:	Like if you got a cold, then your mom knew to slather you with Vick’s Vapor Rub or something.

	H:	Right.



	B:	So your mom was your doctor.





	H:	Right. And like I said, my dad went to medical school. He and his brother both went, really. But his brother, James Davis Hightower, actually finished medical school and became a doctor and a DDS. So my dad was very knowledgeable when it came to medical services, stuff like that. But now that you ask me that question—I can’t ever recall ever going to one.

	B:	Or where did your friends go? Did your friends ever say, “Oh, I have to go to the doctor”?

	H:	What I remember doing was, I think it was my junior year—yeah, my junior year, one of my friends broke his leg playing soccer ball here at Jerkins. But I never even got a chance to talk to him about how the experience, what doctor, or something of that nature.

	B:	Uh-huh. So it just wasn’t that common to go to the doctor? Mostly just take care of it at home?

	H:	Not for me, no.



	B:	And the dentist?



	H:	Like I said, the dentist that I knew was my uncle, on my dad’s side. So I would’ve done that, then.

	B:	Okay. And then what about just everyday shopping? Where’d you go shopping, or get food and things like that?

	H:	Shopping we didn’t do. B:	Didn’t do?

	H:	No. Mom and dad shopped for us. But to go shopping, no. I think I was in my senior year in school? Yeah, I think I was a senior in school, and I had my first





job working at the Bloodworth Drug Store downtown. Oh, you couldn’t tell me nothing! I thought I was the richest man in here! Had my own money! [Laughter]

	B:	What was your wage?



	H:	I think I was making something like twenty-five cent an hour? If it was—I believe that was, I think that’s about where it was.

	B:	That was high rolling. [Laughter]



	H:	What you talking about? That’s money flowing from everywhere! Not knowing. But that was my first job that taught me how to budget money. Because my dad told us, said, “Okay, now. You say you want to be with a job, so that means, school time comes up, me and your mom don’t have to buy your clothes, because now that you working, you can buy your own clothes.” So it taught me a sense of responsibility, because when school came around, all right, tall kid, you gon need shoes, pants, shirts. So, it taught me to save, and just before school, I remember this one store in Perry. I think it was Emporium, that we would go in, and that’s where I bought my first doll. It wasn’t—it was Emporium, but the first pair of shoes that I bought came from Clifford Shoe Store in Perry, and my pants and stuff came from Emporium. And I thought I was big man after that. Bigtime, sure did. But my parents really didn’t—they didn’t really want us to go to get part- time jobs. My dad worked long hours [inaudible 19:42], and when I say my mom, she was educated, she was a schoolteacher. So all they wanted us to do was do your chores around the house, do the schoolwork, and don’t get in any trouble.

That’s all they asked. That was it.





	B:	Did you and your brothers ever ask for money to go to the movies, or do something like that on the weekends, before you had a job? You didn’t do weekend things?

	H:	Mm-mm.



	B:	What’d you do on the weekends? H:	Nothing.

	B:	Just sat around, reading books? [Laughter].



	H:	Read books, or watch television. Then, when I started in my music, that consumed my time.

	B:	Right every weekend, you were at a band concert, or a football game, or—



	H:	No. Well, yeah. And even if it wasn’t during football season, or band season, I was a music jockey. So every day, I didn’t need anything, nothing wrong with that if that. That’s what I’d have backed my dad up, I took my horn, went out in the backyard, and I just played ‘til I got tired. My mom told me she got tired of me playing that, said, “Boy, look here: you my son, and I love you to death, but you and that horn got to get out of here!” So I took my horn and I went on outside, and I just played to the flies or whatever was flying around. [Laughter] But I’m thankful I did, because I listen to what people say right after I play—and I really don’t think I played that well—but people heard me play, they’d like to hear me play.

	B:	Well I heard you play very well.



	H:	And I thank Jerkins for my band instructor, which was my adopted godfather, took me up under his wing, and really showed me how to play the trumpet,





because that was his major instrument. My first mouthpiece was his personal mouthpiece, and I carry that mouthpiece with me today, everywhere I go. And music was just a way to escape from it. I’ve always been a shy person, so I wasn’t one of the most talkative, talkative here, mingle here and mingle there. And that was my escape. That was my way of seeing myself do a lot of things, visiting other countries. And I can truly say that it has truly been a favorite piece of information for me. Because it has taken me on a lot of arenas that I wouldn’t have gone in, had not it been for Jerkins High School.

	B:	Right. And you say it was a way to escape. Was that also because you grew up in a segregated town? Did that have anything to do with it?

	H:	It did. And it used to—before we got the pool out there, in the back, if you want to go swimming, you swim in the creek. My mom and dad, this creek was very strict—“Oh, no! You’re not going there! You better not go in there!” If you did, you’d better be real dry when you come home! Your hair better not be wet, because if they knew you was swimming in that water, then you got another beating. And not to be able to swim in the public pool downtown, yeah, that was aggravating. And it was demoralizing. But over time, I became one of the first Blacks—myself and Jimmy Williams—to become registered lifeguards, certified by the state of Florida, that could go to that pool and swim.

	B:	Yeah. You were a lifesaver! [Laughter] So… H:	Right.

	B:	So was that a weird feeling, to be like— H:	It was.





	B:	“This is a place I wasn’t allowed to go before.”



	H:	And now here I am, sitting up in the chair saving lives if someone jump in that water and can’t swim. It made you think, you know? Was that the right way, or is this the right way? Is it something about me that’s not in anybody else, or—this doesn’t seem right. So, it really came home to me when I left away to go to church. Left there, and got into a different environment. It opened me up and stopped being so shy. Because I was very closed with myself. And once I left home, I found my rhythm. Everything is not just like it was when I was home. But home gave me a foundation that I wasn’t easy to sway about what was in the world once I went out on my own. But they taught me right from wrong. I knew what to do and what not to do. Yeah, it was different. Very different.

	B:	Yeah, let’s talk about the military, then. How did you find it to be? H:	Military?

	B:	First of all, what year did you go into the military?



	H:	I went into the military in [19]69. I went in, actually got inducted, in [19]68. I think it was November of [19]68.

	B:	Now, was this [inaudible 25:01], or you volunteered to go?



	H:	No, I wasn’t fixing to go out into it—no, no, that was during Vietnam. I wasn’t going to ‘Nam, man! No, no, no! [Laughter]. The same young man that taught me to play double saxophone, he had a good friend of his who was graduating from Florida A&M, and they were throwing their hats up. And I can’t call Tick’s real name, but I called him Tick—he carried me to FAMU to get an audition to be in the band. I passed the audition for the band for the marching 100. The same day





I passed the audition, I got a 1-A draft card. And so I went down to the military place. When we got there, they said, “Your momma have five boys. She can afford to lose one.” That told me right then—I told my mom. I said to my mom, “Y’all fixing to come visit me in jail, because I’m not going to Nam! They can lock me up, I’m not going! I’m going somewhere, but I’m not going over there!” So, I made up made up my mind, and tell my mom, I said that I would go back to Tallahassee, go to the Air Force, take the test. Because I’m not going to hold no gun and walk through no bushes, shooting at nobody that I don’t even know nothing about. So I went into the Air Force exam, and the guy came back, he said, “You can go in any field you want to be in. What field you want to go in?” I said, “Well, I want to be a pilot. I like to fly planes.” He said, “Well, we don’t have that open.” I say, “Well, give me the next slide to that.” So they gave me electronic. I was an air traffic controller. I decoded and encoded messages from the military. I had top secret FRUCTO clearance. Jerkins prepared me really well for the future. Little did I know, leaving straight out of high school going straight into the military, taking the test that I took. To me, it was just taking a test here at school. And when you thinking back, his eyeball was that big, like, “Whoa! I didn’t expect you to score that type of score!” So they put me on a delayed enlistment program for six months. Six months went by, and the Army looking for me, they sent military police to the house to question my mom where I was. I’m sitting there in the house. They didn’t know who I was. “Oh, well, your son is a draft evader. We’ve come to pick him up.”

	B:	But you had registered with the—





	H:	I was already registered, by the time he got there I’d already taken the test. I had already been to Jacksonville, I had been sworn in the Air Force, I was in the delayed enlistment program for the Air Force. I was in the reserve for the Air Force. They didn’t care. They came to the house to arrest me and carry me to Leavenworth. So my mom told them I wasn’t home. And they left. That next day, I got a 1-A draft card again in the mailbox. When I went out and got the mail, I took a book of matches and burned it up. My momma said, “Boy, you can’t do that!” I said, “Nah, I can. I’m already in the military.” Six months later, in October of [19]69, I actually got honorable discharge from the reserve, and went actually into the Air Force. And went to basic training down in San Antonio, Texas. The tech school in Sheppard. Left Sheppard after, and went straight to Ramstein for my first tour of duty.

	B:	Went to where?



	H:	Ramstein Air Force Base in Frankfurt, Germany. And that’s where I did my tour of duty for the next four years. Yeah, next four years. But I was blessed, because I played basketball. So, for the next four years, for the Air Force, all I did was play international basketball. I played with Africa, Spain—you name it. Any country overseas, I had an opportunity to go visit. I had an opportunity to play basketball in Air Force carriers. It got to the point that we were rented out to play for different countries in Germany while we were there. So, I had a good experience in the military. I came out in [19]72, came back, went to school at FAMU, came back to be a lawyer, but then being in the military, being with electronics, I changed my career field from political science to computer science. So I became





a programmer instead. After that, I worked with the city of Tallahassee as the head interviewer for the employment department. Left there, Post Office called, I looked at the salary. I said, “Well, I’m not fixing to leave here yet, but that’s not bad money.” Next thirty-five years I worked at the United States Post Office. I retired in October of last year.

	B:	Wow, congratulations! H:	Thank you.

	B:	That’s great!



H:  Thank you. And I’m doing what I enjoy doing. I enjoy playing my horn and I enjoy traveling.

B:   Yeah. Oh my gosh, you’ve had such an exciting life. It just seems like— H:   It’s been a lot of fun. Really has.

B:  Yeah, it seems like you just kind of got guided with all these really great opportunities, and took them and traveled.

H:   I tried to make the best of what was presented to me. My idea would have been to finish high school, go straight into college, get a degree, and go out and work. But life didn’t deal me that fate of hand. I was side-tracked—

B:   Thank god—



	H:	Well, that’s true. And it gave me an opportunity to actually go over and to actually see some of the countries that we were talking about here in school. And one of the languages that I took over there was French. And I got a chance to go to Paris; I got a chance to speak the language that I was taught right here at Jerkins. I learned to spreken ze deutsch a little while I was in Germany. Learned





to speak a little Spanish. So, the hand that it dealt me by the sidetrack—I really believe it made me a better person.

	B:	Mm-hm. How fascinating. And I talked to somebody earlier that said one thing that they learned from Jerkins was “take hold of every opportunity,” because you have second-hand books that—

	H:	That’s right.



	B:	—have pages ripped out, and you have to switch football helmets with people when they come off the field because there’s not enough to go around.

	H:	You’re right.



	B:	But you just grab hold of what’s here, and don’t think about what you don’t have, but think about—

	H:	What you do have. Be thankful for what you do have. That’s something my dad and mom had instilled in us at an early age. Stop worrying about what other people have; be thankful for what you have. Because there some people like that who don’t have what you have. So just be thankful that you have a book at all.

When they were speaking about the books, I can attest to the fact, that yeah, it was part of the books, the pages was missing, and some books there were whole chapters missing. But that didn’t stop the teachers from teaching. And to listen to some of the success stories that came out of Jerkins, we had good instructors. Those were apple bite roll. And they had to care, because the teachers under those circumstances had to see what you inspired into the students when they went on. If I was a teacher, it would have been gratifying to





me. It really would have. Because they gave us something that the world couldn’t take away. And it just made us a better person.

	B:	Mm-hm. Okay, kind of a strange question for you. H:	Okay.

	B:	Within the context of African American history, I forget that most people don’t go through their life thinking “I’m Black,” or “I’m White,” or “I’m Hispanic,” or whatever. It’s just, I am who I am, and you kind of forget what—did you go through your life being very aware of the fact that you were Black?

	H:	Oh, yeah.



	B:	You did?



	H:	You had to. Here in Perry, I mean, there were—everything in Perry wasn’t all good. Because we had bad apples on the police department. We would go down in Brooklyn to the theater, or go down to the club, or to the—really, a drug store that you could dance in. And I’ve watched young teenage guys get shot during that time for no reason. For no reason whatsoever. Guy just pull up, and he gone. That taught me, number one, I’m going home. I’m going to school; I’m going home. And wherever my parents go, I’m going home. Now, when I graduate, I’m gone. I’m out of here. Because that’s an environment that—well, is tomorrow my day? You never know.

	B:	Right. It’s unjustified, so—



	H:	Yeah. Yeah. Very much unjustified. But, it made you think about it. I mean, you couldn’t help but to think about it, because you lived it every day. You faced it every day. You heard it every day. So you couldn’t help but to live it. But I really





believe it made us stronger; it made us better people. I really do. I thank the good Lord for the strength of the parents, and the guidance that we had. And all that came from these four walls. And from the [inaudible 35:32]. It sure did.

	B:	Right. Because I could imagine there were days that you felt, “Why did I have to be Black?” And then there were other days that you thought, “Oh, I’m so happy that I am.”

	H:	Hoo, boy! Yes I did. Yes I did. I have said those exact words. I sure have. “Why me?” You know? Why? Why does I have to be last? Why couldn’t I have been on the other side of the fence? We couldn’t even get our mail on the other side. We would have said it would have been in the gutter. So, I’m just thankful for what I have. Again, I look back at where I came from, what I’ve gone through, and what I am today and I thank God for it. I really do. Because I truly think it made me a better person.

	B:	Yeah. It’s brought you places that I can imagine when you were sitting there, playing your horn in the backyard, and you were not thinking “I was going to end up playing basketball all over the world!” [Laughter] How amazing!

	H:	Not at all. And one of the things is, the same song that James Watson wrote for the band and performed my last performance as a band member here at Jerkins, I came from Ramstein Germany to Maxwell Air Force Base, Montgomery, Alabama. The same song we played, I met the band that wrote it and recorded it, and got an opportunity to play with he and his band in Montgomery.

	B:	Wow. That’s like one of those chillvault moments, where you’re just like, “That is amazing.”





	H:	Yes it is. Yes it is.



	B:	Oh my gosh!



	H:	It really was.



	B:	That’s kind of one of those, it brings it all full circle, too. H:	Completely full circle.

	B:	“I have achieved. I feel good.” [Laughter]. H:	That’s true.

	B:	That’s really cool. Yeah. I’ve heard other stories about musical genius in this area. Somebody said that they met Ray Charles when he came through. Before he was famous, he came through and just played an after-football social or something?

	H:	I never met Ray Charles. I did meet Cannonball and Nat Adderley. I did get an opportunity to meet them. And it’s amazing.

	B:	That’s cool. And they did go on, and—



	H:	Oh, yeah. And the horn that I play now, Cannonball Adderly’s saxophone. So, that’s a piece of history that I walk around with. It really is.

	B:	Fascinating. Well, was there anything that I didn’t ask about that you were hoping I would, or anything you want to add to any other stories?

	H:	No, you just about caught everything.



	B:	Yeah, we kind of went through a lot of stuff! [Laughter]. H:	We sure did, mm-hm.

	B:	Well, you’ve been super open about it. I know it’s weird talking to a White person about Black history stuff.





	H:	No, not really. I’m just being me.



	B:	You seem just really, like, whatever comes to you. H:	That’s right, that’s true.

	B:	But I appreciate you spending the time with you, and sorry to keep you waiting, too.

	H:	That’s all right. Thank you for having me. Thank you for asking me. B:	No worries, no worries.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, December 16, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Anupa Kotipoyina February 2, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019