AAHP 641; Noel; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 641 Noesha Mariah Noel 3-28-2019 Interviewed by Rhiana Suarez on March 28, 2019 36 Pages

Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; First Generation Students; Haitian Americans]



AAHP 641

Interviewee: Noesha Mariah Noel Interviewer: Rhiana Suarez

Date: March 28, 2019



	S:	Alright, this is Rhiana Suarez with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. We are Library West on the University of Florida campus with Ms. Noesha Mariah Noel in Gainesville, Florida. Today’s date is March 28, 2019. So, can you just start by telling me your parents’ or your guardians’ names?

	N:	My parents are Madline Noel, and my father is Inslet Noel. S:	Okay, and can you spell their names for me?

	N:	Madline is M-A-D-L-I-N-E. And Inslet is I-N-S-L-E-T.



	S:	Okay, perfect. And were you raised by those guardians, or were you raised by someone else?

	N:	Yes, I was raised by those guardians, including my grandmother as well, because she ended up moving in with us, so I’ve had pretty much three guardians in my house.

	S:	Perfect, and what’s your grandmother’ name? N:	It’s Herbertha. H-E-R-B-E-R-T-H-A.

	S:	Okay, perfect. And how would you describe your relationship with your parents and also with your grandmother? What was it like when she moved in? Was it your whole life that she was there?

	N:	I’d like to say pretty much all of it. Her and my grandfather did live together, but then they just started getting older, and my mom was just like, we’d rather take





them in. So currently, my grandmother lives with my mom and my dad, and my grandfather lives with my aunt, who’s also in Broward County, where I’m from.

	S:	Okay. Were you born in Broward County? N:	Yes. In Plantation.

	S:	In Plantation. And were you raised there as well? N:	For the first four to five years of my life, yes.

	S:	Okay. And then where did you go after those four to five years? N:	I lived in Lauderhill.

	S:	Okay. Is that Fort Lauderdale? N:	Lauderhill.

	S:	Oh, Lauderhill. Gotcha.



	N:	Fort Lauderdale area, but specifically Lauderhill. Yeah.



	S:	Okay, perfect. Awesome. So were you raised with any siblings?



	N:	Yeah, I’m the oldest of three. I have a brother that is seventeen, and my sister is eleven.

	S:	Okay, and what are their names?



	N:	Nathaniel. N-A-T-H-A-N-I-E-L. And my younger sister is Nyla. N-Y-L-A.



	S:	Okay, perfect. And how would you describe being the older sibling, like you said.



What did that mean in your household?





	N:	Being the example. Definitely. Being the first to do these things, always having somebody that’s looking up to you, so you always have to be at your best. You always have to try and succeed, so they can see, especially as young Black Americans, they need that kind of figure in their life to show you, like, this is how you can succeed. Despite what America sees you as, you can still succeed, as a Black American. Even now, I’m still just trying to be, ‘cause I am a first generation college student, and I am the first in my family to go to college, so it’s just like I am always trying to upkeep what I portray to them, because I always want them to feel that they can be just as successful, and even more successful.

	S:	Okay, awesome. I have a few questions from that. That’s really good. So, what has the process been like, being a first generation college student?

	N:	It’s definitely been an adjustment. Since I’m so used to being at home with a whole family and now it’s just me and— well, I have two roommates, but it’s very quiet. So it’s just like the environment is just a total change. But it hasn’t been too hard, because my parents have always taken the time to prepare me for college, so in terms of living on my own, they’ve always had me do laundry, they’ve always wanted me to clean and cook, especially my dad. He has always taught me how to cook, so I’m able to maintain my whole lifestyle, so I’m not always buying food at school per se, so…

	S:	And you say that your dad taught you how to cook— N:	Yeah.

	S:	So what do you love to cook, or what did he teach you to cook?





	N:	My dad is Haitian, so he’s always had Haitian-influenced food, so I’ve learned how to do rice, I’ve learned how to clean meat, because Haitians, we have a specific way we like to clean our meat, so he’s always taught me how to clean different meats. When it’s chicken, fish, ribs, all that, red meat and white meat and all that stuff. He’s taught me how to clean that. I would say my favorite, even though I don’t have the time to make it, I love making griot, which is a Haitian dish. It’s a fried pork, so usually you have the pork marinate for, I’d say, ideally a day. So the seasoning can really get in there, so you have to, if you’re planning on making griot for something, you would have to clean it the day before and then the day of. You take it out, you have it on the stove for a while, so the meat can soften a bit before you fry it. And, yeah, that’s my favorite dish. I would love to make it more if I had the chance, but with this dance lifestyle [Laughter].

	S:	Definitely. Yeah, yeah. And so was cooking something that he only taught you, or was it a family-centered event?

	N:	Yeah, it’s a family thing. My dad is just always trying to prepare meat, and my siblings, so it’s not just me. It’s also my brother, ‘cause my brother will be graduating next year. He’s going to be a senior, so he’ll be graduating next year, and my sister as well, ‘cause my sister’s just curious, so it’s just like, if she sees us lining something, she’s just like, “Oh, I wanna learn how to do that, too.” So it just kinda catches on with everyone in the family.

	S:	Definitely. And so you mentioned how America sees you, and, so how would you describe that? Especially when trying to set the example for your siblings.





	N:	Yeah. The label that America puts on us, as Black Americans, isn’t the greatest. There’s just so much tagged upon us, to the point where it’s just like, especially with things like police brutality and seeing all these Black Americans dying just for not having a turn signal or stuff like that, or they have something that looks like a weapon, but they don’t have a weapon, but it is in their hands and they’re a Black person, so it has to be a weapon. So I just feel like society just casts this tough light, where it’s just like, Black people can only be drug dealers, or people who do harm, or people who can’t be anything good, per se. That’s what I kind of see, that’s what’s our society lately. So I’m really just trying to…And it’s not just my siblings. I also have people in my church who look up to me, and before I left the church and went to Gainesville, I was a Sunday school teacher, so I did influence—I had a whole nother group of kids that I also tried to put a good influence on, even before I had left the church. I had a little message to the kids that’s just like, “Please do well in school. Please keep your grades up. Please be respectful, because you already have a strike against you considering you’re Black, and then especially for the females, you have another strike because you’re a female. So I’m always trying to make sure that I kind of let them know what they’re getting into as they grow older, not to the point where it’s so much on them, but I’m trying to just prepare them for what life will have in store for them, so that they know that they have to keep these things up in order to not succumb to what society is putting upon them.

	S:	Yeah, thank you for sharing. And so what church is it that you were a part of, as a Sunday school—?





N:  I’m a part of a small church in Pompano Beach, Florida. The church’s name in English is Restoration Baptist Church, but in Creole, it is Eglise Baptiste De La Restoration.

S:   Perfect. And how did you get to becoming a Sunday school teacher?



	N:	Well, our church does not have a huge youth group. Like I said, it’s a small church in Pompano, so I would say it would be four of us that were more teenage kids and able to oversee, ‘cause it’s just like, you can’t—unless it’s just one kid that’s really strong, you just really need, really strong in the sense that they can convey meanings and stuff about the Bible to a younger audience, ‘cause the median of the age group is about, I wanna say, twelve. But most of them are younger than twelve, like my sister; she’s eleven. And yeah. So it’s a pretty young age group, and there just needed to be somebody who was able to lead, so I just took that upon myself. My mom was also, ‘cause my mom and my dad, they’re very religious. My dad is actually a deacon, and my mom is a deaconess. So I’ve kind of always had that sort of standard to always be involved in the church, so I chose to do the Sunday school, which helped me spiritually as well, because while they were learning, I was learning, as well. So we were all learning together, so I would say that’s a great experience, and then I always, every time I come back from break, when I’m able to go to church on Sundays, I do still teach Sunday school. So, that’s something I always enjoy doing, just to be able to connect with the kids, not only like, “Hey, I’m back. I want to spend time with you.” But, like, “Let’s connect together in Christ.” I always found that enjoyable.





	S:	I love that. That’s really cool. And so, what were more of your specific responsibilities, as a Sunday school teacher?

	N:	I would always have to make sure I had something prepared for them, so usually I would go through the Bible. Well, what I would do is I would go on the website and kind of search for topics in the Bible, whether it was responsibility or trust or faith. And then I would—there was a website that I found, I can’t remember the name of it, but there was this website that pretty much had all the Bible topics in alphabetical order. So I was just like, “What am I feeling like teaching today?” So I would just choose when of them, and then when I clicked on that kind of tab, it would lead me to different verses in the Bible that kinda had something to do with it. So then it’s just like, I would just choose one, and then I would look at that verse, and I would look at the verses surrounding it. So, let’s say it was James 4, verse 17, I would look through maybe James 4, verses 1 to 19, to get an overview of what it was about. And then I would kind of find a way to make this into a story that they would understand. So I would read it myself, just to make sure I could be able to explain it to them, and then when I would get to Sunday school, I would read those same verses to them, and then kind of ask them, what are their thoughts? What are their questions? And then from there on, I would go through, like maybe in specific chunks, just so they could get a little summary about what they were learning. And then after that, I would choose the verse that I had clicked on in the first place, so James 4, verse 17, for example, and then I would just teach them—make it like a memory verse. So I would be like, “Okay, what is our verse?” They would say, “James 4, verse 17.” And I would be like,





“Okay, now let’s read what it says.” So I would take the verse into specific chunks, so I would teach one chunk of the verse, another chunk, and then maybe a third chunk, depending on how long the verse was. And I would kind of just read over with them, have them repeat every specific chunk, and then put it together, so that they could memorize it, remember it. And then, at the beginning of service, when all the kids—’cause Sunday school was aside from the adults and stuff, so it’s the kids, it’s the males, and then it’s the female adults that are separated. And then we would all come together. And there were kind of this competition thing, ‘cause I believe it’s the pastor’s wife, the First Lady, she would go to every group and count how many people are in attendance, how many Bibles did every group have, and then how much did each group give for offering. And also how many visitors each group had. And then, everyone would get together, and she would be like, “Good morning, everyone. Thank you for being here today.” It was all in Creole, so I’m just kind of translating that. And she would basically be like, “Okay.” And then we also had these banners, so we had a banners for visitors, a banner for attendance, a banner for Bibles, and a banner for offering, and then it would be like, “Okay, so today’s winner for the most Bibles is this group.” So they would take the banner and give it to the group, and they would have, ‘cause each group sat in a section, so they would put, I think there was a pin on the wall of each section, so that group would hang the banner on their side, so that was a fun little competition thing to motivate everyone to try to have as much Bibles, try to give as much offering, try to have attendance, and





then see how many people were inviting others. So it was kind of just an involvement kind of thing, so yeah. I kind of got lost in what I was saying.

	S:	I love it, no that’s great. That’s really great. There’s a lot—wow, that’s really amazing. That’s really cool to share. Thank you.

	N:	No problem.



	S:	And so, you talk about it so highly, like about your church and whatnot. So what would you say has been the most, or some of the most, rewarding aspects of either just being involved with it, or maybe that come with being a Sunday school teacher?

	N:	Well, alongside being a Sunday schoolteacher, my senior year of high school, I was the President of our youth group. And my main goal with that was just trying to help with the involvement, because unfortunately, since there’s such a small group of kids, it’s hard to motivate them to get involved, when we hardly can get together ourselves. Even though it’s so small and everyone knows each other, and there’s a sense that they’re just unmotivated, because there’s some kind of—and I’ve been talking about this with my mom—I don’t want to say distance, but there’s always just been some lack of motivation within the kids. So my mom, as an adult, she’s a deaconess, as well as, I wanna say she’s the President of the Board. If not the President, then something else. I know she had a position within the Board of the Church, so her goal as well is—another woman in my church, her name was Sister Susy, they always try to come together. It’s her, Sister Susy and then Sister Nadia. They always try to get together, because my





mom has three kids, and then Sister Susy has three, and Sister Nadia has two, so they carry pretty much a lot of the kids within our group. So they’ve always been just trying to be the ones to motivate not just the kids, but the parents as well to help their kids join together so we can have things like Bible study, and we can get together and have rehearsals and stuff like that, if we wanna perform for specific events that the church holds. So that’s kind of been, along with them, my goals as the President. Being the President, I pretty much had to, of course, have the agendas for the meetings that we had, ‘cause we had, along with having service on Sundays, we would usually meet up at five-thirty for our youth meetings and stuff like that. So it was my job to have agendas. I was also kind of the dance choreographer and choreographer for everything, not just dance but doing songs and stuff like that. Just to motivate the kids to get together, and the arts is a passion of mine. Not just dance, but I enjoy pretty much all forms of art. I love supporting it all, from theatre, music—my brother is actually, he plays trombone, so we kind of have, like, music runs in the family. My sister, she’s gonna get into the arts somehow, I just know. But, so yeah, I’m just very passionate when it comes to the arts. Even though I’m a dancer, I just love all forms of art. I love what art expresses, so it’s kinda just been my job to just find a way to get the kids motivated to get together in a way that helps them learn more about Christ, as well as just motivates them to find ways to praise the Lord and still have fun at the same time. So I’ll usually have an upbeat gospel song that I choreographed to, just to always stress, like, you get Jesus [Laughter] and you get a fun time, as well. Just to let them know, you can learn more about Christ





and have fun at the same time. So that’s kind of where that, I think that’s where that motivation needs to be in a sense. ‘Cause they just seem so unmotivated, ‘cause they don’t even participate as much as I know my mom would want them to. And it’s just, like, my mom’s just really trying to find a way—my mom and the other two ladies I have previously spoke about—to really just motivate the kids. And I just feel so, I feel a little sad, because I feel like when I left the church, and I had to go to college, they kind of lost that leadership, in a sense. Because my brother, as well as two or three others in the church, they are currently in high school, and I know they all are busy, ‘cause I know I was busy in high school, so I don’t know how I managed being the President of that. But I did. And so I know they’re busy, so it’s just like, it’s kind of tough, trying to find that leader, in a sense, to try to help motivate these kids to get together. And I’m just hoping that a leader does emerge sometime soon, because I know that the way it’s working is, one lady is graduating this year. My brother is graduating next year, and another young man is graduating the year after that. So it’s just like, pretty much all the teenagers in the group are leaving, so it’s gonna get harder and harder to find somebody who can be that leader and get that motivation. Because it’s not like the adults aren’t trying, but you also need a kid—like, not a kid, but just an adolescent, somebody who’s on that same playing field, so the kids have someone they relate to. So I feel like that’s what’s needed, in a sense, to help the youth kind of grow and be more motivated to participate in those things.

	S:	That’s great. That’s wonderful. Yeah. I can definitely see how that can be stressful, for sure. So, you mentioned being very busy in high school, but still





being able to manage all that you were doing. So can you tell me a little bit more about your high school experience, like what high school you went to?

	N:	I went to Dillard High School in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Very, very busy lifestyle because it was the only performing arts program in Broward, so I was dancing. I was also in—within the dance program, we also had a dance company that would compete occasionally, so there was that. My senior year, I was in National Honor Society. I was the Secretary of our school’s chapter of the—well, it’s the Broward County Honor Society, but for Dillard’s chapter, I was the Secretary. I also had Dual Enrollment classes, I had AP classes. I was in top 10 percent, so I was always trying to be able to maintain my grades and make sure I graduate in the top tenth percent. I was also trying to get volunteer hours, ‘cause I was always trying to work towards above the 250 for the silver chord, so there’s also that. So it was just, like, a lot of things. And then being in the dance program, we did have our shows, so I wanna say my last two years, the number of shows increased. I wanna say my first two years, there were about maybe two to three shows, and then that bumped up to maybe three, four, or five shows within my last two years. So there was always something to maintain, and then aside from doing that, I was also trying to make sure I support my brother, because he’s in the marching band at Dillard. He’s currently one of the drum majors, so it’s just like, always trying to manage my time as well as supporting my brother. Not only was he in marching band, but he’s also currently in the jazz band playing trombone, and then he’s also in symphonic band, playing trombone, as well, but





yeah. So there’s just a lot going on, and then there’s—it was just a lot. Yeah, there’s a lot to manage in that aspect.

	S:	What do you think helped you manage it?



	N:	[Laughter] Always staying motivated in a sense, because I knew—it goes back to my siblings. Not just my siblings, but I do have younger cousins, as well. I currently have…a lot, a lot of younger cousins. So them and then, of course, just like my family was just my motivation, ‘cause it was just so many people were believing in me, and so many people were praying for me and supporting me. So I feel like it’s just my duty to always make sure I manage and make them proud.

	S:	Yeah. And so, can you tell me a little bit more about why you chose to attend the only performing arts in Broward County, like why you chose that?

	N:	Well, when I was younger, I wanna say when I was four going on five to about age twelve, I attended a dance company called Encore Dance Theatre, located in Sunrise, Florida. I attended there from ages four going on five, to about, I wanna say age twelve or thirteen. And then I had stopped attending because, I believe it was finances, or something had happened. So I didn’t wanna lose dance, so I felt like, in a sense, ‘cause aside from being at Encore Dance Theatre, I also attended Parkway Middle School in—is it Fort Lauderdale, Florida, or Plantation? I wanna say it’s…I wanna say Fort Lauderdale, Florida, but I’m not sure. Parkway Middle School of the Arts, I had attended there, and then I also did dance there. So my eighth grade year was my first year not being at that studio, at that dance studio, so I was just thinking, ‘cause I always thought





I would end up going back to that studio maybe after I had left middle school. But I ended up not, like I had to talk with my mom, and we just figured out it wouldn’t be feasible, so in order to not lose dance—’cause losing dance was just something I couldn’t do—that’s why I chose to attend Dillard High School.

Because I just, dance was just something I always needed in my life, in a sense. It is the reason—it’s like, dance brings out a side of me that I could never express verbally, so that’s why I just couldn’t lose dance, and that’s why I attended up attending Dillard High School.

	S:	And how did your journey with dance start, I guess?



	N:	Yeah, so like I said, age four going on five, that’s when I had my first dance class, and I was a shy individual growing up. I was always clinging to my mom or my dad’s side, and being able to take these classes, as the years progressed, ‘cause my first dance class, I was still onto that clinging to my mom side, so I actually cried my first dance class, ‘cause I missed my mom. But the more I did dance classes, the more I just enjoyed it, and the more it just became clear to me that this is something I wanna keep forever. As the years progressed, these movements were being exposed to me, and I was just finding myself. Not only discovering dance, but discovering myself, discovering things about myself that I had never known before. Not just, oh, discovering what is a passé, what is a shuffle ball change, but how it’s affected me, personally. How it’s made me happy, how it’s just something I enjoy doing whenever. Something I could just never get tired of.





	S:	Mm-hm. And how do you think dance has affected you personally, if you could try to verbalize it?

	N:	Yeah. Personally, I feel like it’s definitely boosted my confidence. I feel like it helps me communicate what I’m feeling without verbally speaking, ‘cause me, personally, I’m not someone who likes verbally communicating what I’m feeling. So it’s just like, I usually always turn to dance to kind of, even if it’s not even intentional, I usually just verbalize what I’m feeling when I’m dancing, more than I do when I’m just having a conversation with anyone.

	S:	Yeah. And so what has been your focus of dance, or what style has been your favorite, I guess?

	N:	I wanna say I’m more drawn to the modern/contemporary style, but I’m pretty much open to all styles of dance. I don’t wanna say I love ballet, but I do like ballet, because I know it is the foundation of all the styles of dance that I do. It’s that kind of foundation that helps me build skills for modern, for jazz, even for hip hop or something that you think could totally be unrelated to ballet. It’s always in that foundation that helps you grow as a dancer. I haven’t done it much recently, but I do love tap dancing. I do miss it. I hope I can take a tap class sometime soon, because it’s just so entertaining to me. I just love the aspects of it, and how it was created, ‘cause it was created in America. It’s pretty much, if not the only, it’s one of the only styles of dance originating from America. So I find that’s really cool, but I also love tap dancing, ‘cause it’s kind of something aside from your basic technique classes. It’s something you don’t really have to focus on, point your toes, or straighten your legs, or stuff like that. It’s something you can just





relax into, and I just love being able to incorporate sounds within dance. I find that really cool that tap is able to do that, so I just love those aspects of tap dancing. But yeah, I usually lean more toward modern and contemporary, but I pretty much just, I love it all.

	S:	And I’m assuming—does UF offer tap dance classes? N:	Yeah. They do.

	S:	Okay, perfect. I was just wondering. Have you had any, and this can be just throughout your life, it doesn’t have to be really to dance or it can be, any mentors? Or someone you’ve looked up to?

	N:	Yeah. I’ve definitely had a few. My mom’s definitely my biggest life mentor. She’s been giving me advice for forever. She’s always just prepared me for that next step. When I was in middle school, it was just like, “Okay. Focus on what we’re doing in high school.” When I’m in high school, it’s just like, “Focus on what you’re doing for college.” So I always thank her for what she has prepared me for, ‘cause she’s always just tried to prepare me for that next step, whether I wanted the advice or not, whether I followed it or not. She was always there, so I just thank her for being so patient with me, and just willing to be my rock in a sense, no matter how difficult I was. She was always there for me, and so I really appreciate her for that… I would like to give thanks to my grandmother. She’s not much of a mentor. She’s more of an inspiration to me, because my grandmother had breast cancer when when I was in, I wanna say I was in either elementary school or middle school. But around that time, she had breast cancer, and she





actually had fought it and won, and she’s currently living today. And I’ve just always been so proud of her. Her drive has always been a big factor in my life. That’s always just been my inspiration. I’m just like, “If my grandmother can fight breast cancer and win, there’s nothing that I can’t do.” Her fight just inspires me to be a better person and to always strive to fight for what I want. A few other mentors…yes, I have a mentor. Her name is Jadine Louissaint. I met her through a pageant that I was competing in. Yeah. That’s a story. [Laughter] That’s a story. But yeah, I met her. She’s actually the President of the organization that was holding the pageant, and from the time I met her, she was just this really inspirational woman. The first day me and the other pageant contestants had met her, she had just opened us up to her life, and she had just shown us things that, you know, not—I don’t want to say a normal person, but not everyone would be comfortable showing things about their life that they wouldn’t be proud of. But she was just like, “Yes. I was this person then, but now I’m the person you see today.” So, which was really inspiring to me. Her confidence is just something I aspire to have, because she will stick it to ya. She is just that person to be like, “Hey. Yeah. You might have done this then, but here’s now. What are you gonna do now? You can’t change then. It’s only now and then the future. That’s what you have. You can’t worry about the present.” She’s always just been that person. So…yeah. After I had competed, and I actually won that pageant, so I currently hold a pageant title now, and my reign will end this May. But even after I won the pageant, we’ve always been in touch, of course because I’m the pageant winner, so we’ve always kinda had to keep in communication in terms of





events and stuff. But even aside from events, I’ve always felt comfortable talking to her about my life problems and decisions, so it’s just like she’s the big sister I never had but have always wanted to have.

	S:	Do you mind actually spelling her name for me, just so I get it right?



	N:	Um-hm. First name is Jadine. J-A-D-I-N-E. Last name is Louissaint. L-O-U-I-S-S- A-I-N-T. Yes.

	S:	Perfect. And you laughed a little bit when you talked about the pageant. You said it was a bit of a story.

	N:	Yeah. [Laughter]



	S:	Do you feel comfortable sharing a little bit?



	N:	Yeah, definitely. So it was my senior year of high school, and my BRACE advisor, Mr. Jimmy Witherspoon—he was just like, “Hey.” ‘Cause initially, it was presented to me as a scholarship. So he was just like, “Yes. I need…” And TransforME Ayiti, which was the organization that was holding the pageant. He was just like, “Oh, I need Haitian-American girls to do the scholarship and stuff like that.” Because TransforME Ayiti is a Haitian-American—they have Haitian- American board, Jadine is Haitian-American, and just…sorry, I’m really tired.

	S:	No, go ahead. You’re doing fine.



	N:	Regroup. So yeah, getting back into the scholarship. He was like, “Yeah, I need Haitian-American girls to fill out this scholarship.” So we come in. Well, actually he sent it to me through email first. So I’m looking through the email. I’m just like,





this is a pageant. This is not just a scholarship. And I had already said yes, I would fill it out, because I thought it was a scholarship. And me, I don’t like turning down what I already approve, so I just go through with it, and that was definitely a way to get outside of my comfort zone. And I find it funny, because my mom, occasionally she has presented pageants to me. Like, she presented, I wanna say it was the Miss-something Florida pageant. She’s always just—well not always, but occasionally, she’s just like, “Oh, there’s this pageant. Maybe you should look into it.” So I was just like, you know what, God, if you want me to do a pageant, I’ll do a pageant for you. [Laughter] So I ended up applying for that, and went through the interview process, and I ended up getting a call back, and she’s just like, “Yes, you are a contestant. Congratulations.” So it was me and four other young ladies. The numbers were bigger, but then they just started going down a bit, because a few of the contestants had had to drop and because of their life circumstances and stuff that they were obligated to already. So it became five contestants. It was me, a friend of mine that also went to Dillard High School—her name was Judie Pierre. She currently attends Florida State University. Yeah. And then three other young ladies. And me and my friend, we were the only high schoolers. The other three were in college. So yeah, that was a process, and I’m happy I did apply, and entered this pageant, because it felt like so much more than a pageant to me. We had workshops every month, starting in, I wanna say it was in February. I wanna say it was like every month, or maybe twice a month. Yeah. We would have these workshops, and they weren’t just like, “Okay. This is what you should prepare for, for the pageant.” It





was more focused on…’cause TransforME Ayiti Incorporated, they are a faith- based organization, so they were really trying to help us discover who we were in Christ in terms of mind, body, and soul. So every workshop, we would have a visitor, a motivational speaker come, whether it was somebody who owned a nonprofit. One time, we had a pageant Queen, her name is Fayola Delica. She is currently Miss Plus-Sized Florida 2018, I wanna say. I know her reign is also coming to an end, I wanna say this month or the next month, but yeah, so it was just different people. Different Haitian-American women would come out and speak to us, and they would have their own speech, little sermon, to kind of help us, as young Haitian-American women, discover who we are in Christ, which I just felt made that experience so much more special to me. Because the way that pageants are represented in social media—not social media, but just the media in general, things like Toddlers and Tiaras, that’s where I kinda just got that pageant…view from. So I’m just like, “Okay. I’m not really interested in pageants, because they’re so superficial, and they focus on beauty and stuff like that.” So that’s kind of what drew me away to them, but being able to do this pageant has helped me grow as a person, not just, okay I know how to stand, I know how to walk around, I know how to ask questions. I mean, I do appreciate that pageants do have that aspect of knowing current events and stuff like that and asking that, but just aside from that, it just felt so superficial to me. So that’s why I was kinda skeptical about doing the pageant, but I am happy that I did compete in it, and I did win that pageant, so winning that pageant, just that whole pageant experience to this day has been amazing to me. Because when I won the title, I





won the scholarship, but there was also an all-expense paid trip to Haiti that I went on back in September. September 2018. Which was just amazing, because throughout that summer, after I had won the pageant, I was helping them with their back-to-school drive that the organization holds every year, so every year they hold a drive that collects school supplies like backpacks, pencils…all types of school supplies. And they collect that, and they travel to Haiti to give them to young Haitian women that live in the area that we are visiting. So this last September, we had visited Léogâne, Haiti, and we had not only distributed—not only collected…Wow, my brain is just everywhere. But not only get the chance to have those backpacks to distribute, but we also held workshops for them. So the workshops that I was doing before I had won the title, that’s kinda what we brought to them. So we helped them know who they are in Christ and learning about God. So that, I could just never…I couldn’t even begin to explain. I can barely explain. I have no words to describe that experience. It was just so humbling, to be able to make an impact on people and allow God to use me to do His work. It was just such a humbling experience, and I just thank the organization for being able to bring me on that trip with them and experience what they’ve been doing and just make me a part of that. It’s just an experience that I’ll always keep close to my heart, and then—I would love to go again with them in the future, even though it probably wouldn’t be all-expense paid for me, because [Laughter] I’m not the current title winner. But I would just love to be able to do that again with them, and not just with them, but do other sorts of mission trips to help those in need and be able to just do God’s work. It’s just a





truly life-changing and humbling experience, so that’s kind of what I’m looking forward to do, because alongside with the scholarship and the trip, they gave me a waived fee for an all…it’s like a boot camp sort of thing, but it’s an online. So it’s just like, it has lectures and stuff like that, and modules for how to create your own non-profit. So that’s kind of what I’ve been doing. I’ve been watching and taking notes, and I’m looking forward to creating my own non-profit organization so I can also help those in need and be able to do God’s work and be able to help others. Sorry. [Laughter]

	S:	No, you’re fine.



	N:	Be able to help others who just need it the most. That’s just something I always have a passion for. I always love helping communities. I always love volunteer work, because it doesn’t just impact those who I’m helping, but I love the impact that it has on me, as well, and the impact that we’re giving each other. That is just something I love doing when it comes to volunteer work, so that’s why I’m looking forward to doing this non-profit, which will be inspired by my platform that I used for my pageant, which was dance. So I always, I feel like me being a dancer, me having the ability to dance, is a gift from God, so I feel like that’s just been a motivation for me. How can I use dance to impact another community, another nation, even? Because the question for the platform was, “How are you going to use this platform to impact Haiti?” So I will—I’m looking forward to discovering ways I can use not only dance, but the performing arts in general, to impact Haiti.





	S:	Okay. That’s great. Wow. Yeah, that’s great. That’s amazing. Was that your first time in Haiti?

	N:	Yes. That was my first time in Haiti, so it was just…it was so amazing. It was just really great, ‘cause I’ve always wanted to go to Haiti, but there’s just always been a part of—I just feel like there’s always just been a part of my culture that I didn’t know. Because I’m Haitian, but I’m also Bahamian. My mom’s from the Bahamas, and my dad was born in Haiti. So I frequently visit the Bahamas. I usually go to the Bahamas every summer, because they have something called Homecoming, so where my mom’s from is—in the Bahamas, my mom is from Bluff, which is a little kind of county in Eleuthera, Bahamas. So they usually have this thing called Bluff Homecoming, so they usually have a week of celebration.

It’s called Homecoming, so everyone that’s from there kind of comes home and celebrates, and it’s usually the week of…Bahamian Independence Day.

Bahamian Independence Day is July 10th, so they usually hold it the week of, or somewhere near that day, to kind of just celebrate Bahamian independence and be able to bring those who are from there together. So I always try. I’m really trying to go this year, because I missed last year, so…I really would love to go this year, even though I’m trying to just figure out my whole summer schedule, because it’s just like, I also have to dance and stuff like that. But I wanna say, I think I’m just gonna take July off, because this year, I did not expect to be doing as much as I did this year, in terms of dance. So my brain just, it needs a break. So I’m really gonna try and use that July—’cause I also have a lot of family over there. My uncle, my aunt, and their three kids. They recently had a new baby in





December, so that’s just another reason that I just have to have to go. I have to just set off some time to be able to visit, ‘cause it’s just like, I love being over there. Being over there gives me a chance to just relax in a sense, and then I also have plans doing community work there. I am looking towards finding a way to help have them contribute into TransforME Ayiti’s back-to-school drive, so in terms of maybe donating money or donating items. That’s something I had talked about the last time I was there, ‘cause I did visit last summer. I just missed the celebration, so yeah. But I still got to visit. So yeah, while I have my title and I had brought my sash and crown over there, ‘cause I really was just trying to publicize—bring more publicity to the organization, so it’s not just something that’s known in Florida. I wanted to just bring it around the world, so it’s something that’s known about more and more. So…yeah, when I go over there this summer, I hope to help them. Even if it’s not with TransforME Ayiti, there’s just some type of community work that I wanna do over there, so I’m currently figuring that out. But hopefully before I go over there, I have a good, set plan on what I wanna do when I’m over there for, maybe the good, I wanna say I’ll be there for like a month so… just something to keep me busy.

	S:	Right. That’s a wonderful way to use that sort of a platform. It’s very powerful, so thank you for sharing that.

	N:	No problem.



S:  Let’s see. A lot mentioned. So you talked about a little before, just going back a little bit, that you are really just enamored by the performing arts in general and art, in general. So, how has your journey been with other types of art?





	N:	I’ve been influenced by art in different ways. I wanna say my…it was sometime in high school, for a short amount of time, I actually was training to do—I was taking piano classes at a place in Lauderhill. It’s called Making It Happen Music School, overseen by Carol Davis. And she was the one who taught the piano classes, and she also taught at Dillard, which I didn’t know until maybe after I started taking the classes, but she also taught piano at Dillard. But my dad had just really wanted me and my sister to learn how to play piano, so I did take piano for a little bit, and then since I missed, ‘cause I didn’t take it for that long, but I always wanted to continue. So my senior year of high school, I actually took a keyboard class, so…I don’t know, I just love being able to experience art in different forms. I feel like it just makes me more of a well-rounded individual, as well as helping me to understand other forms of art. It’s just, I like being in other—it’s like being in another world within the same world, so I just love just discovering different forms of art that I can just look into. So it’s not like I’m just a dancer. I can also say maybe I dabble a little in music, because the more you know about different forms, the more you can be marketable, the more you can be used in different jobs, and different things may come up. And it’s just like, hey, I know a little bit about this, and they’re just like, “Okay, great. She’s a dancer, and she can play piano.” And then I also took, during my senior year, two dual enrollment classes involved with theatre. The first one was Theatre Appreciation, which was more of…I wanna say it’s more of like a theory-based theatre class, so it wasn’t much about acting and stuff like that, but the second half of the semester—not second half of the semester, the second half of the year I took Intro to Acting, so that was





more of like, okay. Now we’re gonna learn these different things about acting. And towards the end of the year, our final project was to be in a group and take a song from a musical and be able to just make it your own, be able to interact, and we also had different jobs, so somebody had to be the lighting manager, somebody had to be the stagehand, somebody had to be the director, somebody had to handle sound. So it was just really cool to be able to not only do these songs and be able to learn about the performance aspect, but to learn a little bit more about the behind-the-scenes aspects of theatre, as well. So I just love getting the chance to learn more about art, ‘cause I know so much about dance since I’ve been dancing for…thirteen to fourteen years now, but I just love being able to discover where other people’s passions lie and have more of a deeper understanding for their art and have more of a respect for the art that they choose to pursue.

	S:	So I feel like you’ve talked a lot about how art has impacted you, but how do you think that your art—and it could be any art, maybe dance or piano, or anything that you like to do or dabble in—how do you think it has impacted others, or do you hope it impacts others?

	N:	I believe that dance can make change. I remember my first semester here, I had a class called Basic Modern with Dr. Joan Frosch, and we kind of just talked about the pioneers of modern dance, like Isadora Duncan, Ruth St. Denis, Martha Graham, and we kinda just took a good while, actually, to look at their art and how it can impact others. And something that stuck out to me was a piece





that Martha Graham had choreographed. I don’t remember what it’s called at the moment.

	S:	That’s okay.



	N:	But it was created around the time of the Great Depression, and…it was used as, like, she was trying to be an embodiment of grief. And…a young lady had shared, she was reading an article, and she was sharing how this article had said a woman had actually went up to Martha Graham and was just crying, thanking her for showing her that it’s okay to grieve. So I just really feel like dance is a way that shows people, ‘cause dance is not just for—we love social dances and stuff like that, but dance can also be a way to kind of inspire people, in a sense. Like, we as dancers are inspired by the things that we see, and we use that inspiration to bring inspiration to others, and bring change. So I really feel like, with dance, there’s so many ways that you can just use it to be able to show things that are going on with the world, not just mental health awareness and police brutality. So many different aspects that are going on in the world right now can just be represented within dance to be able to show people this is what’s going on in the world, without just—’cause you can lecture a person about what’s going on in the world, and maybe they listen to it, maybe they don’t. But dance is kind of a way that you can see it, and you can watch it, and you can just be inspired, ‘cause it’s not just the typical like, “Hey, this is what’s going on in the world. This is what’s on the news.” You’re reading an article. It’s just a way, it’s a visual, ‘cause some people, maybe they learn by auditory senses. Maybe they just hear about it, and they’re just like, “Okay, I get it.” But sometimes, you just need that visual that will





help you, and maybe it doesn’t have to be as gory or as serious as showing, ‘cause some people may not be drawn towards all the brutalness that we see, like maybe, for example, the school shootings. Some people will, of course, they don’t wanna see what’s going on, so dance kind of just provides that kind of medium, so they can see it without being totally drawn off to it. It’s less harsh. It’s a way to just say, “Hey. This is a serious thing.” And, I mean, it’s an artist’s choice to choose as much they wanna tell about it, as much they wanna show.

But it’s just helps people learn about something without being totally drawn off. It’s just like that nice little medium that can help bring change, can help—it’s powerful, but it’s also, it’s like a silent power in a sense. Because, of course, we don’t speak or stuff like that, we might not—I mean, not necessarily to say we don’t speak. We don’t speak as much, because some people may choose to speak in their pieces, and some people may choose to make sounds and stuff like that. But it’s just always been that silent power that helps bring awareness.

	S:	Yeah. That’s something definitely felt, I think, by a lot of people, when they watch things like that. Yeah. Is there any topic, I guess, I don’t know if you’ve ever had the chance to choreograph your own dances, or anything like that, or if you’ve been choreographed by someone based off of a topic that really means a lot to you. So is there something that you’d really like to, I guess, show the world about through dance?

	N:	Mmm…



	S:	Or that you’ve been able to show the world about, through dance.





	N:	My senior year, well, not just my senior year, but while I was in high school, starting my sophomore year, they had this show called the Solo Showcase, so…I wanna say it was more towards my senior year when I did something more personal, in a sense. I kind of took the solo and applied to myself as not just a dancer, but as a person, because as a person, I’m not someone who’s necessarily comfortable with speaking about their emotions. So I kind of showed that within my dancing, and towards the end, I’d actually literally screamed to the top of my lungs to show that as a form—’cause the song was called, “Talk to Me,” and…yeah, the song was called “Talk to Me,” which was also the name of the—no, actually, the song was called “Put that Away and Talk to Me,” but I entitled the piece, “Talk to Me,” because I feel like there was always this line in the song that said, “Talk to me,” and I felt like that was a voice that was just like, “Okay. You need to speak about your issues.” But within my dancing, I was kind of showing constraint, not necessarily by others, but me constraining myself, not to speak as much, ‘cause it’s just something that I’m not comfortable with. And then, towards the end, the last few seconds of the song, it said, “Talk to me again,” and then I screamed to show that this is me, letting it all out, letting go of what I’ve bottled up for so long, so…that’s, I would say that’s like the most serious, in a sense. So, in terms of what I would like to choreograph more on, I think I would like to, kind of, bring that more out for those who do feel like I do, like they’re not comfortable to speak, but communication is really an important thing, especially for those with mental health issues, like depression and anxiety, and stuff like that, where they just feel like they have no one to talk to, and they





don’t wanna burden people with their problems and stuff like that, which is something I unfortunately constantly feel, like I just don’t like—’cause I feel that a lot of people, like people go through things, everyone goes through something, so it’s just like, I don’t wanna put my burdens on somebody who already has their own burdens. So I kind of have that kind of mindset, which I’m really trying to work on changing, because it’s not like people aren’t willing to listen. It’s just like, yes, they may have stuff going on, but the job for those who care for you are to be there for you, so I’m trying to be less into that mindset, where I’m burdening people with my problems, and they have their own problems, and I shouldn’t drop my burdens on them and stuff like that. ‘Cause I do a lot more listening than—I’m a good listener. I love listening to other people’s problems and being that support system for them, but I need to get out of that mindset and learn, yes, I am a support system for others, but those same others are support system for me, so that’s something that I would like to kind of travel into with my dancing. Another thing that I’m interested in that I’m currently working on right now. I…wow, blanked out.

	S:	You’re fine. You’re fine.



	N:	I…no, something I was working on currently, and working on right now is, I’m trying to find ways to…sort of integrate my style of dancing that I know with a form of dancing in Haitian culture called kompa, which is more of a social dance in Haiti, so I’m trying to find ways to merge the two together, which it’s just gonna have to be something I put to the side for now. I was trying to get it finished for this upcoming show that we have in the dance program called, it’s the Spring





2019 BFA Showcase, called “Spaces Between Us,” I believe. Yes, I was trying to audition the piece for that, but I just got so busy with my dancing things that I’m working on, especially the other pieces that I’m in for that show, as well as helping my friend, Diaunte Jenkins, and his company, United We Dance Entertainment, which was recently incorporated, I wanna say, a few months ago. They also have a show that’s happening in April—April 20th. So it’s just like, I’ve been helping him with that, ‘cause I’m one of his rehearsal directors. So it’s just been, it’s been a lot, and I just felt so bad that I had to tell the partner that I was working with, ‘cause actually, what happened was…for a piece to be able to be adjudicated on the night that all the pieces that plan on being in the show are auditioning, you need to fill out a form, and it was just like, I had overheard somebody that Friday. They were just like, “Yeah,” ‘cause they were talking to the professor, and I was just like, “Yeah. I emailed the paper right on time.” And I’m just like, “Paper?” [Laughter] And I was just like, I read the email, Friday at 12:00 p.m., and it was already twelve fifteen, and I was just like, “Uhhh….” But luckily, the person was super understanding. Yeah, my friend Benny, he was super understanding, and he was just like, “It’s okay. I understand you’re busy.” I’m just like, “I know, but I really wanted to do this.” So I’m hoping to be able to develop that more. Now that I have more time, I can take my time to maybe develop that more for the fall 2019 BFA Showcase and audition it for that, so I can take my time and get more advice from one of my professors, Trent D. Williams, Jr. He had offered to, kind of help me develop that once I remember to send a video [Laughter] about that dance to him. But, yeah, so I haven’t even





asked Benny yet, but hopefully he’ll want to continue to develop that more, so we can maybe have just more development in our thing. ‘Cause currently, we’ve just being doing mostly kompa, but I’m really just trying to see how I can merge the two together, because…with dance at UF, I feel like there’s not enough showcase about a variety of dance forms. So that’s why I’m kind of, like, interested. Especially when it comes to Caribbean dances. It’s more just like Western dance that’s showcased, so I would love to bring in…kind of, like, bring in styles of dance from the Caribbean and Haiti. Just really be able to showcase just another side of dance, which that kind of inspiration came from my friend, my friend Diaunte Jenkins, the founder of United We Dance. Because one day, he chose to showcase two of his pieces that he is using for the show. There was a gospel piece, and then there was more of a sensual, jazz, contemporary piece, which was totally different from what’s usually shown. And I was just inspired in that sense, like if he can bring that and be willing to be open to take the opportunity, since it’s there, to just be like, “Hey. I may not do this style of dance, but what I do is still dance, and it’s something that deserves to be showcased.” So I’m just really inspired. That’s just what really inspired me to be able to meet up with my friend, ‘cause actually the reason why we started meeting up in the first place to do the kompa dance wasn’t even to choreograph a dance. I just really needed a stress reliever, and I love doing kompa—I haven’t been doing it for long, but it’s a dance where I don’t have to be so technical and stuff like that. So it came to be a stress reliever, but then one day, I was just like, hey. My dance program, they have these things called “unshowings,” where everyone’s





just free to show anything that they’re working on, whether it’s for a show, whether it’s just something they’re doing on the side they’re willing to just show us. So I was just like, well, we have this opportunity. Why don’t we just take it? And so that’s kind of what started us choreographing, so hopefully, even though I can’t do it for this show, hopefully I can reach out to him, and we can develop it a bit more. That’s like the only, I guess that’s the only thing I’m kind of happy about, in terms of not doing it for this show, even though I really wanted to do it, but, you know, things take time, so being able to have more time to develop this. I’m really looking forward to what I can input, ‘cause it’s a lot of kompa, but it’s not—’cause, Benny, my friend, he has more knowledge of kompa. I haven’t been doing it as long as he has, so he has more knowledge in that, but I’m just like, okay. He is bring forth what he can offer, but I feel like I haven’t pushed myself to bring forth what I can offer. I kind of played with it a little bit, because within the dance that we have, what we have so far, I have this mini solo. So I was kind of just thinking of how can I, within my solo, bring forth my technique while also having the techniques of kompa. Like, swaying of the hips and being more loose with the body. So I’m just really excited, in that sense, to be able to have more time to develop that, and get feedback, so looking forward to fall 2019, and hopefully it’ll be something that I’m just, that’s together, and it’s just something I really wanna present with the highest, the cleanest, like…I can’t find the words.

But it’s just something I’m looking forward to present, because again, it’s something that’s not—it’s hardly, like no one’s ever, to my knowledge, brought a kompa dance to UF, so I wanna make sure that if I’m bringing that forth to the





environment, I wanna make sure it’s just at its best, so it’ll showcase, like, yes, this is not a form of dance that we are familiar with, but it is just as amazing as ballet can be, or as modern can be, contemporary.

S:  Yeah, just as important, too. N:  Yeah.

	S:	For sure. That’s wonderful. Wow. So, those are pretty much, I guess, all the questions I have, but I always like to, before I end an interview, just give you the chance to say anything you feel like, “Oh. I didn’t get to talk about this, and I wanted to say that.” Or something that you wanna elaborate more upon, so if there’s anything else you’d like to say about anything we’ve talked about, or anything we haven’t talked about, you can feel free to just talk about it, and then when you’re done, I’ll just stop recording.

	N:	Yeah. Something that I do feel is pretty cool to talk about—recently, we had a show in February called “Dance 2019,” and the company that I’m currently dancing with at UF called MOD Dance Ensemble, under the direction of Trent D. Williams, Jr. We had worked on a José Limón piece called, “The Traitor,” and it was brought to us and restaged by Dante Puleio, a current faculty, a current choreographer-in-resident at UF. Not only that, but he’s my ballet teacher, so shout out to ballet. [Laughter] Yeah, he worked with us on restaging that piece, and that was truly an amazing experience, because it is the first time in its sixty- five year history that the dance has been performed by females, so that was just a really amazing—we were the first mixed-gendered cast, and being able to be a





part of something that was that monumental was just so amazing to me. Another reason that it’s such a cool experience to me is because I had one of the lead roles. I was playing the role called, the role of Judas, which José Limón performed to himself when he was a part of that piece. So I just felt like it was just so empowering to me, ‘cause I was the first woman, I was the first Black woman to perform, so I just felt like, it was just so amazing to be able to be a part of that experience, and I just felt so honored to be chosen and know what I’m representing, as who I am, as an African-American, as a woman, as…yeah. As an African-American, as a woman, being able to have that role and represent who I was representing. I was representing women, I was representing Black people, I was representing Haitians, I was representing Bahamians, so it’s just like, there was so much that I was representing. And so much that I was so proud of being able to represent in my role. And yeah, it was just so…it’s just an experience I will never forget. Being able to kind of learn more about José Limón and his style, as well as learn more about myself as being this character that I was—’cause being Judas isn’t easy, necessarily, physically and emotionally.

Physically because I was literally carrying two people at the same time at one moment, and it was a lot of carrying other people, so physically, it was difficult. But it was also emotionally difficult, because those emotions aren’t something I necessarily carry on a daily basis, so I had to kind of figure out how I can relate what this character has done to maybe something I have done in order to bring out those emotions so that the role is as powerful as it was when it was first performed by José Limón, especially since it’s the first time that a woman is





doing it. I have to make sure that I had to be able to not necessarily prove, but to showcase that a woman can definitely…perform to the same extent that a man can perform this role, physically, of course, and emotionally. So I feel like that was just such an amazing experience, so I’m just thankful to Daunte and Trent for casting me, and for the Limón Dance Company for being able to have us do this piece. It’s just been such an amazing experience. It’s something that I’ll always remember as a part of my dance career, and I’m just so thankful for it.

	S:	Awesome.



	N:	Yeah. It’s super cool. [End of Interview]







Transcribed by:

Rhiana Suarez,

April 2019

Audit-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

February 27, 2020

Final-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

February 11, 2021