AAHP 690; Todd; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 690 Sylvia Todd

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Deborah Hendrix and Teníadé Broughton on July 7, 2019 48 minutes | 23 pages





Abstract: In this interview, former educator Sylvia Todd recounts attending school before and during integration in Pensacola, Florida, and later, her experiences teaching at the very same schools. She details her extracurricular activities while attending grade school including clubs for girls such as the YWCA and Y-Teens and following her college years, her involvement with education-oriented sorority Phi Delta Kappa. In her recollections, she includes mention of being assigned to several different schools “across the railroad tracks,” and out of date, battered textbooks among equally scarce school materials. She reminisces on her teachers at A.M. DeVaugn Elementary School and John A. Gibson School, and how those teachers informed her choice to be a Black woman in education at Booker T. Washington High School.



Keywords: [African American Studies, Y Teens, segregation, integration, Florida history, Pensacola, education]



AAHP 690

Interviewee: Sylvia Todd

Interviewer: Deborah Hendrix, Teníadé Broughton Date: July 7, 2019





	H:	Today is July 7, 2019 and my name is Deborah Hendrix and I’m sitting here today in Pensacola, Florida at the Chappie James Museum with Ms. Sylvia Todd. Thanks for being here today, Ms. Todd. I really appreciate it. First of all, I’m going to ask you to say your name and spell it for the transcriber.

	T:	Sylvia L. Todd. Can you hear?



	H:	Yes. Can you spell it for our transcriber? T:	S-Y-L-V-I-A, T-O-D-D.

	H:	So the first question I’d like to ask you today is where and when were you born?



	T:	I was born in Montgomery, Alabama and I have been here since I was five years old, in Pensacola.

	H:	And can you tell us what year that was?



	T:	1924. I was born in [19]24. August 4, 1924.



	H:	Well, let’s talk about your family. Can you tell us the name of your parents? T:	Walt and Wilma Todd.

	H:	And were they from Montgomery? T:	Yes.

	H:	And did you have any brothers and sisters? T:	No brothers or sisters.

	H:	So you were an only child. T:	Mmhm.

	H:	You said you moved to Pensacola when you were four years old.





	T:	I thought I said I was five.



	H:	Thanks for correcting me. Now do you know why your parents moved you from Montgomery to Pensacola?

	T:	He was a railroad man. I think he had his work running in and out of here, Pensacola. That’s all I know now.

	H:	So he was a railroad man. And what did your mother do?



	T:	House work. Take care of me. She stayed home with me until I finished high school because he did not want her to work.

	H:	Did you know your grandparents?



	T:	I don’t remember anybody but my great grandmother because they were in Montgomery so I don’t know anything else about them other than.

	H:	Let's talk about when you came to Pensacola. Do you remember at what school you started?

	T:	I started at A.M. DeVaughn. They called it Hopson. In the first grade and the end of primer, and then the first grade. The lady with whom we stayed for a short while when we came to Pensacola worked. She was a teacher and she worked at Washington and her husband was a taxi driver so he would pick up her, and by me being an only child and being there, you know, they took me, too. So that’s why I got in school mainly before I should have.

	B:	So, at the A.M. DeVaughn School, do you remember any of the teachers, like Ms. Brown, Barge, [inaudible 3:49] Williams?

	T:	Oh, yeah, I remember Gertrude, Ms. Gertrude Brown. That’s partially schooling and partially for her... You know, Brown-Barge?





	B:	Yes, ma’am.



	T:	Uh-huh, its after Ms. Gertrude Brown. And who else did you say? B:	Barge.

	T:	Ms. Bembo. I just remember Ms. Barge and Ms. Bembo was my first grade teacher. She lived until she was about a hundred years old. She had two daughters and they’re older, naturally. And eventually, she retired but they all talked.

	B:	Haddie Bembo from the funeral home or a different Ms. Bembo?



	T:	No, no, no. What was Ms. Bembo’s first name? I can’t remember that. B:	Oh that’s fine. So you remember Ms. Bembo? That’s good.

	T:	Oh yeah, Ms. Bembo was my favorite teacher because I was the class pet as they say. See I already knew how to count and do things because my mother kept me and took care. So by her taking care of me, you had to have something to do, and she was a young mother and so I learned my ABC’s and all that. So when I went to school, I had a little buddy and we used to go together. Her big sister walked us to school, and then the children would meddle me because I was the teacher’s pet. And of course, after all, they would meddle me and then I would fight them, and if they didn’t bother me, I would fight. So the next year she sent me to Spencer Bibb’s because I didn’t get along with the children down at first grade [Laughter].

	B:	So did you live near Hawkshaw?



	T:	Unh-uh. No, we lived on 6th Ave. But see this lady that I had, the people that she knew, they had children and they went to Hawkshaw and it wasn’t time for me to





go, I wasn’t old enough to go, but I went and I knew a lot because I was an only child, home alone, and she had a lot of children and it did not take much time with them. So she was like my little buddy, a little sister, so anything that happened to her, happened to me. That’s why I had to fight for both of us.

	B:	When the schools in Hawkshaw, do you remember the neighborhood around that area?

	T:	Unh-huh. The only thing I remember is across the railroad tracks. You had to go across the railroad tracks.

	B:	So after that, you went to Spencer Bibb’s?



	T:	I remember Spencer Bibb’s from the sixth grade through the seventh. B:	So the sixth and seventh?

	T:	No, was it the seventh? Until I got… must be when I got into seventh grade. We had to move to another school. I believe that’s when it was. So then I went to Gibson—John A. Gibson. That was the school.

	B:	And that was the middle school right there on Cervantes and Sea, I wanna say?



	T:	I guess it was a middle school. That was the only school that I knew about that had children from my side of town. I guess they went to Spencer Bibb’s. Then after they left Spencer Bibb’s, we all went over to Gibson. Then after Gibson we went one year, I think, one year to that other school and then we went to the new school on 8th Street.

	B:	Oh, so Sea and Lerua, I wanna say. One is on A and Strong and then you mean Washington?

	T:	Washington, yeah.





B:  So it was on A and Strong and then at one point it was on Sea and Lerua I believe. I think it started on Sea and Lerua then it was A and Strong. In the [19]40s it was on A and Strong, I think.

T:   I didn’t understand what you said.



	B:	In the 1940s wasn’t Washington on A and Strong streets, somewhere around there?

	T:	The Washington I knew was when we left … I think one year we went there, wherever that was. Then we went to Gibson evidently. That’s what it was.

	B:	So your time at Washington, do you remember anything about your years at Washington? Who the principal or the teachers were?

	T:	No, I don’t remember a thing other than being with the other children and I don’t even remember the teachers or principal’s name. I remember the children.

	B:	Okay, for a while, think I heard of a Leroy Anderson, Wiggins?



	T:	What about them? Those were principals, those were all my principals I worked under.

	B:	Oh you worked under them, okay. So at Washington, what did you all do for social events? Did you have parties at different places?

	T:	Well, I don’t think so because when I went to school earlier, people didn’t let them go out to party party. You had to have some special thing, you had to have somebody to take you, so they didn’t party party and I sure didn’t party hard [Laughter].

	B:	What did you do for social events?



	T:	I don’t remember other than work and then playing with the other girls.





	B:	Did you do things at the churches.?



	T:	I went to Mount Zion, my church. I still belong to Mount Zion, they gave me a little plaque a couple years ago and it said I’m the oldest person who has lived in Mount Zion all their life. That’s the only place I have ever gone because most people, as they get older, they either leave or else they stray away to another place, but I don’t believe in doing that so I stay where I am.

	B:	So do you remember any kinds of things you all would do at Mount Zion?



	T:	We had Sunday school and BTU, that’s all I remember, and maybe some of the children that your parents picked for you to be friends with. You would go play with them somewhere with them.

	B:	What’s BTU?



	T:	That was Bible study. That’s what they called it.



	B:	Okay. And when you say your parents picked your friends?



	T:	Yeah, they had to be nice girls. They couldn't be just anybody. There was another lady name was Higgins and she had a girl and a boy. In the summertime, she would have parties on the water for her little friends. Ms. Higgins was beautiful too. You can’t just let them go everywhere they want you to go so you never really got too involved with the wrong people. If you keep up with them, but if you just let them run wild…

	B:	Who were some of your childhood friends that you can remember?



	T:	[inaudible 00:12:03], I had three buddies: Hazel Hayes, Alexandra I forget her last name, and Hazel Wenky. Two Hazels and all I can think of is Alexandra because I haven't seen her since we finished high school and it’s been a long





time. But the other two I have seen since. Those were my friends in high school and Sundays, our recreation was to dress up and go walking without parents.

They’d go to our house one Sunday and they’d go to somebody else’s the next Sunday. Our parents would have refreshments because none of us were into boys.

	B:	So you weren’t fast. Is that what you’re saying?



	T:	No, no! None of us! I’m still not fast. [Laughter]. I just like one at a time. But it’s too late now.

	B:	So, Mount Zion. That neighborhood is really… T:	Did you know the DuBoses?

	B:	Yes ma’am.



	T:	Alright, that house. Haven’t they sold it? B:	That big house? That yellow?

	T:	On the corner.



	B:	The one with the polka horns?



	T:	On the other corner, Mount Zion was— Phi Delta Kappa is a house on the other corner. The yellow house. But on the other corner it was…that.

	B:	That was DuBose?



	T:	DuBose was a big family. This lady had a lot of children, she had a lot of boys.



One of them was an administrator at I think Bethune-Cookman but he was a DuBose. But, all of them are gone.

	B:	Weren’t some of them in Allen Chapel?





	T:	I don’t remember anybody going to Allen Chapel from Mount Zion. When we were children I don’t ever see them. A lot of people left with their families, they didn't like what was going on. But there’s no point in moving.

	B:	I understand. I know there’s two sets of DuBose and they’re different churches. T:	What’s the other set?

	B:	The ones I know of are at Allen. T:	Who?

	B:	The ones I know of are at Allen Chapel, AME. On Gillamard.



	T:	I know where you’re talking about. Maybe that was one of the sons’ church. But the original group. The lady had about six or seven children. When I was a child, if someone were young and some were older, they were the ones that all read along with me at Mount Zion but then some of them left. All of them left, except one of them went to [00:15:26] and became an administrator at one of these colleges down in … I forget which one it was that’s south.

	B:	So coming up, what types of clubs did you all have? Social clubs?



	T:	I don’t remember nothing like that till I got older because I came to tell Diane all the things I thought I knew. The thing I knew is about the Y teens. You know about the Y teens?

	B:	You said something about the YMCA?



	T:	They were junior members of the YWCA. The women’s organization, and they were teenagers, all girls. When I went to Washington, you know when I started working at Washington, being an only single person, Ms. Dickson introduced me





to those people at the YWCA and I became chairman of that Y Teens. Ms. Hernandez, did you know Ms. Hernandez?

	B:	The name does sound familiar.



	T:	Ms. Hernandez was the director and we were given the privilege of organizing all our clubs for the girls called Y Teens which had to be— Y Teens: you had to be in the teens to get in. We had about five chapters. I had the picture but I let somebody use it and I don’t remember where it is. But anyway, we had about five sponsors from Washington and we were all at Washington. The whole thing was at Washington, the Y teens okay. We had these five sponsors and each sponsor had so many girls and they were having meetings and activities and that was really our social outing for the children. Plus, that is why they want the federated people to move in that area because not only did the grown people have it but they used it for anything else and in the summertime, once or twice, we had— see I worked there for about three years before I went to high school.

	B:	You were where?



	T:	At the YWCA. Y Teens. I worked at Y Teens and then in the summertime, we would go to the beach, I think its Camp Sin. There were two beaches, one was White, one was Black okay the first one was Black, and they said their water was the better water. So this is where we used to take the girls. And the other girls.

You know Ms. Corrinne Jones? Ms. Jones was active in the whole lot of stuff. She had the Girl Scouts and I had Y Teens at Washington High School and there was their little social outing because they had other colors for the YWCA. Blue and white. And they had business with ion even know where my business is and





it was a little white and it had Y Teens Girls on the front and then the emblem. And then on certain days at school, we would wear the blue and white and they had little meetings, and that was a nice social affair for them. So then when we moved to the federated— that’s why one of those rooms, you might not know, but one of those rooms is supposed to be set aside for the YWCA to put all of its things so maybe that’s where my picture is.

	B:	You mean the Ella Jordan home? T:	Yeah!

	B:	So there’s a room set aside for?



T:  There’s several rooms. The first room, they had it renovated and the front room when you get in, is the one. But it’s supposed to be for us to put our things but I guess they haven’t gotten it together.

	B:	Well make sure you give a copy and get your original back.



	T:	I can’t. She can’t find it. You know Bevelyn Banks? Well she can’t find it. So I think she might have just didn’t wanna let—what I should've done was to get a copy made but I wasn't into copying all that, I just let her see it because she was collecting material but didn't ever use it. But the last person who had it was Bevelyn Banks and she was our sponsor. Well in the summertime, a couple times, we had little workshops and they were by two or three places we would go and have little classes. Each one of those, there were three girls, and I was the director of it, and I would get the supplies and take up things to work with. The girls would be there until …you know the high school girls, and Bevelyn was one of those girls because she was in high school, they would play games and





whatever else, I don’t know what they were doing. But then all of them had activities in the summer, and they all had such a good time until Ms. Goldsmith, you didn't know Ms. Goldsmith. Ms. Goldsmith I think she worked out in Cantonment but Mr. Means you know Mr. Means? You heard that name Mr. and Ms. Means. Okay, Allard Means, his wife was Ellen, okay. Mr. Means was principal in Central and I think Mr. Ransom was principal in Branson and but anyway, Ms. Goldsmith must have worked at one of those schools because her children found out about Y Teens. Well they weren’t old enough to be in the in the Y, so they were junior Y Teens, and we let them come. We had so many children we didn't know what to do! Then we had a financial project to sell potato chips at Washington and that was where we had so much fun because in the morning, the principal would let the children and the Y Teens, sell and that made us so popular. The children would be out there to buy the potato chips, which they did not need early in the morning but the principal let them have it. And they just enjoyed and it made a real pop, so we always kept members in the Y Teens. But it was just for the girls.

	B:	How long did that group last?



	T:	Well, I had a whole time I was over there because then when we moved to senior high, those were gonna be sophisticated and they wanted to do what they wanted to do. So I just told them to find another sponsor which they never found so that was the end of it.

	B:	So this was at Washington Junior High? The Y Teens? That age group?





	T:	That age group yes, but you see when they get in the tenth grade, they attitudes change it a little bit and so they wanted to plan and show me what they would do and I told them, “You can’t do anything unless the principal looks at it first.” Me too, and so I just gave them a good lecture and got my pocket book and went home [Laughter]. The girl who messed up the group lives not too far from me now and I don’t know if she remembers but I never would forget that girl. She had all it printed out— they were in Ms. Yawlings’s class with the typewriters, and the machines all the machines. So when I got to the meeting, everything was already printed out. “Did you want me to tell you what we’re gonna do?” Well, you can’t do that. That’s why they never really did have more chapters of the Y at Pensacola. I never heard of Y-Teens anymore but that was very popular when we were in junior high.

	B:	So was Y-Teens open to uh— were there chapters throughout the state?



	T:	I don’t know a thing about the others. I don’t know a thing. Only thing I know was it was a very thriving group. I don’t remember them talking about anybody else.

	B:	Do you remember who some of your Y Teens were?



	T:	Oh lord, a million of them! Some of them have moved, and some of them have died. DuBoses and mostly little girls that I don’t remember. Some of them are almost as old as I am now because I was a Y-Teen. Sometimes they’ll tell you that I was a Y-Teen.

	B:	Do you remember a group called the “Order of Omega”?



	T:	Unh-huh. No, I don’t know that. What is that? Young people?





	B:	Well it was a group of women but they met at — well do you know where that cemetery is? Magnolia and Zion cemetery?

	T:	Mmhm.



	B:	They had a clubhouse and they’d meet at the white house on —



	T:	Oh I know what you’re talking about! No, I never participated in any type of organization till I got into Phi Delta Kappa and I joined that after I finished college because when they integrated, all the people I knew, the people who worked with me, and the people at my church because I didn’t go all around. When I lost most of my college friends, and those teaching with me that were my friends when integration came, then they were scattered different places. Then I didn't have as many of them so I said, “I’m going to show them one of these groups,” because I think you should have a relationship with somebody and so I joined them because they were teachers and I had always been a teacher, and always will be. [Laughter]

	B:	So after high school and you said you finished Washington High, you said you finished with Chick Minor?

	T:	He said I did but I don’t remember. Well I know him but I don’t remember. Maybe I did. Aaron DuBose but I know you don’t remember Aaron DuBose either. He was one of the DuBose boys but just like I said, all of them went elsewhere.

	B:	We have a photo of the class of 1943. I’d like to show it to you when we’re done and see if you could spot any of the faces. It’s the graduation photo. Well what made you go to FAMU or FAMC at the time?





	T:	I don’t know. I guess I wanted to go to college and I guess I found out from the others that it was a good school or something, but anyway I went for the whole four years. See, Frankie went to the other place, then she went to Junior College but I went to FAMU four years and then came back, and then continued forty- three at Washington.

	B:	So do you—I’m sorry when you went to FAMU— ? T:	Four years, and two business education.

	B:	Okay, so business education, and you said you graduated from Washington? T:	I think in [19]46. I believe.

	B:	So at FAMU, do you remember who the President was at the time? T:	Dr. Grey.

	B:	Dr. Grey, okay.



	T:	I think Dr. Leem died while we were. Do you remember him? B:	I was there with Humphries.

	T:	I thought maybe you had some history on that. B:	Oh okay, I know who you’re talking about.

	T:	He might’ve been there first year but what I remember is Dr. Grey.



	B:	Do you remember your dorm? Do you remember which dorm you were in? There was Cropper, Truth, Wheatley, Diamond? I think that’s about it with the girl’s dorms.

	T:	I don’t remember the name of the dormitory. Until the senior year, that was the one that was closest to the auditorium

	B:	Oh right, because I think some of them got built in the [19]50s.





	T:	Yeah, probably so.



	B:	So when you were at FAMU, do you remember anything that you all did for fun?



	T:		I don’t remember anything except staying up at night doing those accounting tests.

	B:	Do you remember Ms. Page, Eleanor Page? T:	Who’s Ms. Page?

	B:	I think she was the Dean of Women.



	T:	I don’t remember. She might’ve been but I don’t remember that part. I remember the lady but I don’t remember her name.

	B:	Okay, who do you remember? T:	What? At FAMU?

	B:	Mmhm.



	T:	Oh lord, lemmie see. Don’t say Ms. Kyle ‘cause she taught shorthand, [audio skips] but anyway that’s how I went to shorthand and I didn’t get along too well among other things. So then I went to Mr. Blow and he was very nice and then I stayed with him for four years in other courses too. Another lady was Ms.

Fleming Clark? Do you remember? Have you ever heard that name?



	B:	Ms. Clark?



	T:	Ms. Fleming-Clark. I forget the first name. But anyway, Ms. Fleming-Clark had a little sister and she worked in the Dean’s office but Ms. Clark was one of the teachers and the reason I remember her so well, I was very impressed with her because she never raised her voice. I think that’s why I talk in the tone I do. Well I thought she was a very good teacher. L. B. Fleming-Clark.





	B:	So you graduated from FAM, and came back home, and you got your first job where?

	T:	Where or when?



	B:	Both.



	T:	Washington, as a secretary and I told you. Maybe I told them that the secretary got married and left town. You didn't know of the pharmacist. You didn't know the drug store, did you?

	B:	Which one?



	T:	Jones Pharmacy? B:	I’ve heard of it.

	T:	Well, Mr. Jones had three daughters and two of them are still living. But, Georgette was the oldest when she got married and left town and she was the secretary. So then I had just come out of school and I had Business Ed so I became the secretary. Then when that opening came for the teacher, I got the teaching job and I been there since.

	B:	And you taught business?



	T:	I taught business and ended up being chairman of the department. Because as time goes by, when they lose a chairman over a period of time, then they get somebody else. I had about eight or ten years, something like that.

	B:	So do you remember anything about teaching under segregation? T:	Teaching under segregation?

	B:	Or during that time? During that time period? Did it seem like the schools were underfunded, or did you all do the best you could with what you had?





	T:	Oh, you always do the best you can with whatever you had. The typewriters were older. We all learned to type so you could learn just as well. It’s not what you have but what’s up here with it. We had older equipment, older typewriters, but they learned to type. Sometimes I see them as a loss, and we didn't have much but we could do this. Then I had one boy. You remember Ms. Dorothy DeBolt? You remember Ms. DeBolt?

	B:	I’ve heard the name.



	T:	Ms. DeBolt was in my department and every summer, since he’s been out of school, must have been about fifteen years. He called at Christmas. I mean on Mother’s Day both of us, and now that she’s gone he calls me on Mother’s Day. Every time he tells me how he won the typing contest. [Laughter]. Once somebody told me that they wished, “I had taken it.” And then my neighbor told me he thought boys didn't take typing was because they thought it was for the girls. How about that? I thought they didn't take typing because they knew if they came in that they were going to behave and gonna to learn. [Laughter] When you gonna get through with me? I’m tired.

	B:	Okay, we’re almost done. Do you remember if y’all had—so the books you had, were they the same quality? Or you all had old books?

	T:	No, no. Those were old books. Whatever we had, we used. We always have. But you hear them say that all the time. We never had. I guess the people before my age level, they had less. But it isn’t always what you have, it’s what you do with what you have, right?





	B:	Yes, ma’am. Do you remember when Ronald McDaniel did all to sue the schools for teacher pay?

	T:	He was my principal. I think he’s retired. But I knew him very well and he gave the bride away when she got married.

	B:	When?



	T:	When I got married! [Laughter] B:	Oh he gave you away!

	T:	[Laughter] [Inaudible 35:43] All that’s left is to take out. H:	And you came to listen to it all.

	B:	I think it’s nice that Dr. McDaniel gave you away at your wedding. That’s a nice story.

	T:	Well, see, I didn’t have my father and I didn’t have no brothers. But now people give the children, you don’t have to have a man to just give the bride away

	B:	Some of them just walk on their own. T:	Yeah, that’s right.

	B:	So, we’re not gonna keep you. I do want to hear just a little bit about your work in your sorority. You talked about Phi Delta Kappa.

	T:	Oh! That’s a different story. B:	So you said you joined —

	T:	I’ve been there a long time. I forget how many years. It is a lovely experience to participate in activities with people with whom you are already friends with and in the same professions. Therefore, I always enjoyed going to the meetings and I became, being a business teacher, I became regional gravatus and was there





for four years as a gravatus. But I worked on different committees, I’m not on anything that I’ve been the chairman of the of bachelors. I’ve been twice. Have you ever been?

	B:	No, ma’am. I wasn’t [00:37:26].



	T:	I don’t have a key so maybe somebody else will have something. B:	Oh, I’ve been to the house. I did a presentation about Black history. T:	When? Last year?

	B:	Yes, ma’am, or maybe year before last. Ms. McMillan was still here. T:	Two or three years ago she died.

	B:	Yes, I wanted to interview her but she passed away.



	T:	But anyway uh…You didn’t know Ms. Lesunix Lews? You ever heard that name?

	B:	I’ve heard the name. We’re talking to Martin tomorrow.



	T:	Martin? Yeah. His mother was one of my teachers and she was a very active person and very, very sophisticated. She always wanted the best for everything and everybody. And Martin—wherever we’d go — we’d go to all the meetings, regional and national meetings, and she knew everybody because she was that type of person to go right and meet everybody. Martin is her one son. She was a very good friend and very good teacher.

	B:	Were you a part of the women’s federated clubs?



	T:	I guess I was just a member of the club but I was the Y-Teens lady. B:	So you were a part of it through that?

	T:	Through the Y-Teens.





	B:	Were you ever part of the NAACP or any of those organizations? T:	Work in any of them? No.

	B:	So your main club was the sorority? T:	Mmhm.

	B:	And your church? T:	Mmhm.

	B:	And the sorority itself — how did you all come about that house?



	T:	Over a period of years, I guess different activities and all—they managed to do that because that was before my time, before I became an officer. I didn’t join when I came out of college. That’s an organization where you have to have a degree in education in order to get a membership. Whereas in the others, you can get in sophomore or junior, anytime. But in ours, you got to have a certificate or diploma showing you’re a college graduate in education. We have guidance counselors, and two other things have been added but they’re all related to education. So that’s why I wanted to join something where I would, not so much religion, you know partner. I had a good time doing something which you’d really enjoy and be a part of.

	B:	Did you have any problems here — and I’m asking this question for a reason. Do you remember the year you were registered to vote?

	T:	I don’t really remember that.



	B:	Did you have any problems registering? T:	Unh-huh.





	B:	No? Because I’ve met some of the women who were registered here in the early [19]50s.

	T:	And they had problems?



	B:	They didn’t have any. They said they didn't have problems trying to register to vote or voting. Did you ever have problems trying to vote?

	T:	No. I’ve never had any of those problems.



	B:	You probably would’ve registered around [19]48 or [19]50?



	T:	I don’t remember when I registered but I know I did not have any problems. B:	And when you all would go to vote, where would you go?

	T:	Wherever the place was. You know you got certain places to vote. B:	One of the women, Mrs. McCray, Mrs. Louis McCray —

	T:	Ms. Lillian MaCray?



	B:	Mrs. Louis McCray, Tony McCray’s wife. Do you remember? She was a teacher, that’s why I thought you might know who she was.

	T:	She might have been elementary. See I didn’t know hardly any elementary teachers unless they came out of my school.

	B:	She told me that the Black women here and Black people didn’t really have much of a problem.

	T:	No, I don’t think they had any problem.



	B:	So, as the schools were integrating, do you remember that being a problem? I’m not talking about the riots in the [19]70s, I mean in the [19]60s, the last class of Washington. So there, was upheaval about that?

	T:	Ion bother nobody, nobody hardly bothers me.





	B:	So you said after it was integrated, some teachers were put in different —



	T:	They were all put in different places. There were about seven or eight of us left at the old Washington and they filled them with these other people.

	B:	So the few of y’all were able to go to the new Washington?



	T:	Those were the ones who were selected to go to the new Washington. B:	And then the rest went to?

	T:	Wherever. I understand some people, the principals helped them. But they didn’t bother us. I helped a couple of them find some place to go. They were just out there looking. That’s the only place I ever worked so I didn’t have no problem because I thought, “Shoot, I was going.” [Laughter]

	B:	So all of the teachers weren’t automatically placed somewhere?



	T:	No, that’s what I’m saying. They were not automatically placed anywhere. Most of them were. They said they sent them the letters and then they had to go over to these different places. Like I said before, one lady said that she was so upset she would just go home and put on a sun hat and go out in the yard. and I said no you won’t. And I went over to George Stone and they needed somebody there and she went there and worked there a long time.

	B:	So you were one of the ones who was able to keep their job?



	T:	I thought I was gone because I wasn’t a “yes girl.” I didn’t want to be a man’s pet.



You cut that off! [Laughter] So You know me, I’m just straightforward. I like the gentlemen don’t get me wrong but, if you are trying to be courteous and kind to other people, most times you get the same results. Not always.





	B:	Why don’t you just solve this debate for me and wildcats argue this. We want to know when was the yellow added to school colors? There’s a great debate about who brought in the gold.

	T:	They tell me that President Moore, whatever his name was, he went to South Florida for another school. Moore, they tell me he wanted another color added and that’s how we got the other color because I had asked that question, too.

	B:	So it was him who added the accent gold to—?



	T:	I don’t know, when I got there it was the color it is now, red. It might not have been…

	B:	You mean blue? It was blue and white and then they added yellow in for a while. T:	It’s gold, isn’t it?

	B:	Yeah they added gold, sorry. Gold.



	T:	I don’t know when they put that in there but I don’t think it was there when I went there.

	B:	So it wasn’t there when you graduated? T:	I don’t think so.

	B:	Then at some point someone brought it in? T:	Mr. Moore.

	B:	Mr. Moore brought it in.



	T:	Mr. Moore brought it in, they say. ‘Cause I mean I’ve heard several people have said that he brought it in. He was a one of our principals. He went somewhere in South Florida and he was principal there. Did you all meet them? Did you meet Mr. Moore?





	B:	No. What years was he principal?



	T:	I don’t remember. That was while I was in school. He was principal in high school of our school.

	B:		I can look it up and find out. So that solves the mystery. This is an ongoing debate about where that yellow came from.

	T:	Maybe Martin might help.



B:  He did say he went to Washington. So is there anything you would like to share with us to go on record about growing up in Pensacola, or being an educator, or anything of the like?

	T:	The only thing I can say is when people ask you about careers and the younger people now, so many of them are not taking education. You try to get scholarships and in our case, you gotta have scholarship in education. If you’re not taking education, you don’t get that scholarship so it’s hard for us to find because most of them want to be glamour girls and boys. All these engineers and all these different things, that we never even thought of, in the movies. We’re really running up against other careers but I always tell them that teachers don’t make a lot of money but you develop a lot of friendships. [Laughter]

	B:	I didn’t get your maiden name for you. What was your maiden name? T:	My maiden name is Todd. I took it back.

	B:	That makes sense. Well, I appreciate your time Ms. Todd and I’m glad you got up and came here to talk to us.

	T:	It has been a task to you cut it off.



	H:	All right. We’re going to stop the interview.







[End of interview]



Transcribed by:

Heather Halak

January 19, 2021

Audit Edited By:

Sandra Romero

May 20, 2021

Final-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

May 20, 2021