AAHP 499B; Johnson, Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 499B Rafe Johnson Interviewed by Ryan Thompson on July 28, 2017

2 hours 20 minutes | 58 pages



Abstract: In this interview Rafe expands on his military experiences and the struggles of being a veteran within the United States. He also talks about his high school experience and not being encouraged to go to college. It was around this time he discovered the Baha’i faith and shares his experiences with it. He eventually went to federal jail and discovered the Nation of Islam and the Moorish Science Temple. He also talks about his family life and raising children within Gainesville.





Keywords: [African American History; Gainesville, Florida; Veteran’s History; United States Navy; Nation of Islam; Moorish Science Temple; Baha’i Faith;]



AAHP 499B

Interviewer: Ryan Thompson Interviewee: Rafe Johnson Date: July 28, 2017



	T:	Today is Friday July 28th, 2017. My name is Ryan Thompson. I’m with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. I’m at the home of Mr. Rafe Johnson on the East side of Gainesville. Could you introduce yourself Mr. Johnson? I know we spoke about a month ago, but just again for the recording, just give you name and if you could spell your name as well.

	J:	Yes, my name is Rafe Johnson and its spelled R-A-F-E, J-O-H-N-S-O-N. Again, I’m a local from Gainesville, Florida. I entered the military from Gainesville, Florida. We talked and discussed numerous issues through my life that have either been good and bad. I always want to be able to clarify and say that even in doing some of the bad things, and I know in my time that there was some bad things. It’s just no getting around it. Some of those things caused me to be incarcerated numerous times. People should have foundation and I think I spoke about that. I had no real foundation or support to give a different avenue of travel and we do make bad decisions as humans as we walk this life. We do make bad decisions. I have to be one of the first to say “Yes I made some bad decisions too,” particularly in aptitude after being in service and getting out. That was real life too because there was strong things that as I spoke about that went on in the military. I found that after getting out, and I said this earlier, before I would’ve knew some of the things that I would’ve ran into or how I would’ve been treated , I probably would’ve never did it. But, I didn’t have that knowledge. I was eighteen years old. When you at that age, you don’t know how to make decisions. You don’t have that decision making quality. A lot of times, we think we do, and it





might be one in ten that really does have that quality. It depends on what kind of mechanisms they had in the upbringing. What kinds of parenting and the backgrounds of the people around them that they had. They had probably give that one person, and I wouldn’t go to bucks it would be more than that, to give them that ability to be able to “Okay I can say this what happened. I can do it just like that.” That’s a rarity. At eighteen years old, I was vulnerable to the woes of society. What society had out there I knew some of it from living in it just as a Black man living in America. I knew some of it already, but I really couldn’t discern between why and of the question marks I had about why it was happening. I didn’t have that ability because I saw myself. I had agitators on my side whispering in my ear saying “you should be like this or you should be like that,” but I always had my own thoughts. Not being mature enough to be in your mind saying, “Hey I’m going to stand on what I think about.” When you’re eighteen, you can be swayed by the slightest wind. I see kids all the time seventeen or eighteen years old end up in prisons for life because of one critically bad decision that was incorporated by more than one of them. Nobody out of that bunch, seventeen or eighteen years old, thought to say no to what was going on because I was a victim of that myself. As I talked about in the past, I was in the vehicle with some other guys who we were young. At the same time, we made this incredibly bad decision. And luckily for me, I don’t know if God had a hand in it and reached out and got me to where I moved in a different direction. I guess it was something that was supposed to take my life at that time because that was a situation that probably could’ve got me out of society for a long time,





but it didn’t happen. My bottom-line point being that I was so young when I went in to the service that the people who I met that was in the upper echelon command and running things I didn’t realize that they were not really where they came from. I didn’t realize how the continuity of what happened in the South and all that how it was all a mechanism, working but in a mental state. Then, it could come down, if you went too far, to a physical mechanism where you be fighting about it. I didn’t realize those political quarrels that went on. I didn’t realize those because I was too young. I was vulnerable to these people in charge thinking like well if I tell this guy these people doing this and doing that you have to do something about it. Well unfortunately that didn’t happen in a lot of incidences. It didn’t happen. You know to keep walking down that life and you sustain some injuries mentally. You sustain some mental issues. I don’t see how our government or the people who supposed to be my representatives, as of today, I don’t see how they could say, “Well, nothing happened to you. You got no problems.” I don’t see how they could say that because if you been around and you was a part of that organization and some of these people filter themselves out into civilian society and were working in different entities as persons that supposed to be knowledgeable about what, where, when, and how, they did nothing. They tell you, “Oh, there’s nothing we can do.” Today, you got a veteran running around here with an AR-15 rifle getting killed, holding people hostage for money. This guy was on T.V. just recently, a veteran, saying he was going to be homeless because the VA takes so long to help you in your financial areas, which they’re responsible. They are definitely responsible. In my category, I’ve





had somewhat of a similar situation. I have been waiting on the VA for six years currently. I think that’s appalling. I do recognize that you have to have mechanisms in place to move things forward so I talk to my congressman. I talked to different individuals over time and they said, “Well you know you got three hundred nineteen thousand claims in Florida.” That’s astronomical and at the same time – you don’t have enough agents or representatives from the government entity to help you. Yeah, you don’t have enough representatives to…I don’t even understand how they got this far behind. I really don’t. It has an adverse effect on my life. A lot of times I’m at the VA and I hear people say, “We’re only waiting on you to die.” Of course, they know everything about you because if you go to the VA Hospital your records are right there. An official person from the hospital can look at records, or if they solicit your records, they can get to see where you are physically, mentally, all that. I don’t know whether all those things have play into what they do, but it’s a consensus of a lot of veterans that yeah they waiting on you to die before you get anything from you. Now, there’s some veterans that who doing well. Not all of them doing really well with the money that they get because we find ourselves succumbing to drugs and the life that’s out there from the mental state that we be in a lot of times. You could look back and see some stuff that, “Oh my god I remember that.” Well, you go get a bottle of liquor, sit down, and take you a big drink. We talk about these gateways. Well, some people only need a little small gateway. They don’t need no large one. They got enough stuff already to say “Okay I’m going to get some crack. I’m going to go get some cocaine. I’m going to go get some heroin. I’m





going to go get something.” I think veterans are somewhat more susceptible to that in all of the tragic things you get to see that you want to shut out. The issues with pills…I got a lot of mood pills myself. I got all kinds of pills in there for sleeping. Thirty milligrams. Say, “Oh take these right here. Take a half of milligrams of this at night before you go to bed.” When I wake up in the morning, I’m so groggy till I got to just get up and stay up for a little bit just to get my focus back. It says to me why would I take this pill on a continual basis. I don’t want to feel like that every day. They say, “That’ll subside after your body is conditioned to that chemical that’s going in.” I don’t really want to get conditioned like that.

When I start to get in to that mindset, I think I rather just have a nightmare. [Laughter] Sooner or later, I’m going wake up. As long as I’m not bleeding or got the gun in my hand, I know I’m alright. I mean I just think back like a kid when you was thinking about the toy you was going to get for Christmas and you go to bed an you start dreaming about it “I’m getting a brand new bike,” you can see yourself just riding that bike and you wake up the next day and it’s not Christmas. [Laughter] You didn’t get a bike. Well, that was bad. You had that thought that you was going to wake up and see you had a bicycle okay. Well, it’s the same thing. I look at it the same way now. Well, I go to bed and I have a terrible nightmare sometime I wake up sweating. I’m talking about in a mass of sweat man. I feel clammy to my touch. Say, “Boy that was a good one. That was rough one there.” In most of mine, I get killed some kind of way. That’s kind of like “Wow. Thank God I woke up. I’m here. Everything’s all right. Get up.” But the pill, I still be in that mindset. I don’t know whether I guess they have to search and





search still. If you do, the pill seem to find something that culminates with helping you. Puts things together for helping you. I hadn’t found that yet.

	T:	Did the experience of Telling Gainesville or have you had any other experiences where you communicated about these kind of cycles of thought with other veterans outside of Telling Gainesville? Have you had anything like that that maybe been therapeutic?

	J:	Well I meet veterans. Matter of fact, I met a veteran down the street, Roy, just this past week. Yeah, I do meet veterans. When we communicate about, such as I was saying about how we sit down sometimes be in the hospital, say, “Man, they just waiting on us to die. We not going to get nothing.” Well, that’s an opening conversation sometime, so you can go from there. I have to say yes I’ve sat down, not in formal arenas other than what we doing here today, but I’ve sat down with veterans at different times in our waiting. We waiting to go see the doctor. We’re waiting to go someplace. We in a store waiting in a line. We’ll start talking about some of the things that went on and how it happened. I’ve had guys while we were talking they basically spend thirty to forty minutes going over their whole thing or parts of it. When you walk away from that you say, “Wow, that guy went through all of that.” Well, me, I formalize that into being therapeutic in a sense that I’m thinking “Wow this guy went through all of that.” I’m not going thorough anything compared to that, so you lower your standard of thinking how bad you are when you talk to another guy who has had to tell you some experiences that are gruesome and way beyond what you ever think had. You thinking what you got-- because most of us always we got the worst case





scenario. We want to think we worse than somebody else. I use this analogy right here. When I wake up and I go out and find myself thinking that I’m in the worst, I see somebody in a wheelchair with no legs. Yeah, going out and meeting and talking to other veterans is highly therapeutic because you can then start to make assessments of yourself in comparison to somebody that’s doing way worse than you. You walk away and say, “Man, I got to think a little bit different because I can walk. I still got my arms.” You know you have to do that and if you don’t do that then you’re lost. You’re lost talking to that guy. You sitting there in a wheelchair and he doing his hands to get around. Couldn’t get a power chair because of this or because of that. All these bureaucratic reasons why he’s not everybody else got these little gears moving around. You do get uplifting from the minds from talking to different veterans. Yes, I do that a lot. You never know where they are. You can’t-- people ain’t walking around with a sign that says “I’m a veteran.” [Laughter] You might be in the store and the guy behind you, “So man yeah. I was in the United States Army,” or I was in…I’d say,” Oh yeah, I was in the Navy man. What did you do?” He would say so and so. Sometime, I even get to the point where we make plans. Like I said, I met Roy down here in the apartments I was up to the road there because I usually go up to pick the paper and the bottles up that the kids going to throw up in the ditch so it keeps it clean up there. Roy was just walking down the street. He shared with me his reasoning…He’s not from Gainesville. He shared with me in an hour and oh thirty to forty minutes we were standing up there talking how he got here, why he’s here, what happened to him that he moved to Gainesville, why he lives where he





lives at, and all of that. I invited him. We probably going to do a cookout here probably next weekend. I said to Roy, “Listen,” I gave him my phone number and my card and I says, “On the 5th of August, which is next weekend, we going to have a little cookout. Some friends are going to come over because we plan to do it on Akil’s birthday.” I invited him to come down. Those are the kinds of things you should do if you get the opportunity. You should do that. Yes, he was excited and looked forward to coming down and hanging out with us next Saturday. Yes, I do get to be in situation with veterans where yes it turns out to be real therapeutic. We’ve been talking and when the persons here there’s going to be a lot of critical, in my mind, people would say all kinds of, “He could’ve did this or he could’ve down that.” Yes, some of those things will reign true. I don’t glaze back to “Well my mind was in this tube. This is all I got.” I want people to understand that I might have made some bad, and I did make some bad decisions. They were based on the factual basis that I had. I didn’t have all this terrific input from all these people. I had to go on what my mind was looking at and the picture that I was seeing. I think that’s what people do a lot. I don’t think that when I look back and say what I did that I was involved in this activity and I was involved in that activity. A lot of it I’m not overtly like “Well great I’m going to get a plaque for this. I’m going to be put on the wall for this.” No! I don’t even want that to be… In my mind I’m saying when I sit down to think, “Man that was terrible. That was a bad mistake. That was something that you should not have been doing.” Again I reiterate quite clearly, I didn’t have all this great input. I didn’t have all this good, as they say, “intel” to help me make decisions that





would have been better because I wasn’t around people like that. There’s an old saying that “Birds of a feather flock together.” If you laying up with the pigeons instead of with the eagles who soaring high, you can look down there and get a better view. The pigeon only going to go so high. He can’t go as high as an eagle. He ain’t going to get up there to that altitude an eagle can go to and see what’s going on. You traveling with these jokers here ain’t no telling what they going to come up with. They got to eat. They got to get something to nourish themselves all the time too, just for an example. I say clearly, I traveled in some bad circles with some people who my consciousness was “I need money.” That was my consciousness. I didn’t have another view over here to say, “No you can take this role.” I talk to my son. I says and he’s only nine. I tell him. He say, “Daddy, I want to make a lot of money.” I say, “Medicine. You can make a lot of money. Engineering, you can make a lot of money. If you get in the legal field, you can become a lot of different entities in the legal-- policeman. You can become a lawyer. You can become different types of occupations in the legal area. You can make some money.” I ain’t have nobody tell me that. I ain’t have a soul tell me nothing like that, so I make it a point now that when I talk to my son, not just my baby son, my older son I do the same thing with. We had a discussion the other day and he works for Dunkin Donuts. He was telling me that there’s a lot political stuff that’s going on with the management team. My advice to him, which he was basically asking me for advice, I say, “Stay out the political arena with the management people. Go do you your job and go home.” He said, “Yeah Daddy, that’s good. I’m not going be playing with this person here and





playing with that person that’s in management area. I’m just going to do my job and go home. At the same time, I’m going to be working on my own business.” Which he does. He take the shoes and change them. Put designs on them and all that. He’s been doing that for a couple of years now. He says, “I’m taking my time to start to work for me, but I’m using the money from Dunking Donuts to support that.” Well, he got me to help him with that. See I’m helping him with that because I encourage what he’s doing. You go to work. You buy your paint. You buy your brushes. You buy your paint machine. You solicit your own clients. I’m trying to take us out of that bogged down thing that I was in by giving support. At the same time, my baby I’m trying to instill in his mind that mechanism that says that “I want to be this kind of person. I want to be that kind of person.” In order to do that, I have to achieve this and achieve that, so I always say, “Well you know you got to graduate high school.” I think that the repetition of doing that, if someone had given me that then at the same time I’m going to support. My oldest son he goes to college at Santa Fe. I think that sometime in December or soon after he should have a two year degree over there. He should have one.

I’ve been doing the encouragement. The foundation that I was lacking that I didn’t have, I’ve been being that person now because I know that’s the formula for you to get where you need to go. In my younger son, I have to start to put that seed in his head. When he talk to me about money, I say, “Well, you got to work. You need a job, but if you really want to make money, you can go into medicine, again engineering. All these guys make good money. You make yourself a good living like that.” I talk about that more than anybody ever talk to me about how…





because when I went to school the teacher told me say, “I know you ain’t going to college.” Literally! I went to the guidance counselors’ room and the lady said, “You can start to try to find some work” What kind of work? They told me straight out “You not going to go to college.”

	T:	Why did she say that? Was it kind of an objective performance level or was it the color of your skin?

	J:	It had to do with economics. T:	Okay.

	J:	You see. Of course at the time being Black in America, most of the time they know I ain’t come from the Rockefeller family. I ain’t have no money. Living in this town, you could see where the economics was at. You see who lived in the nice house over here. If you lived where I lived at Snook Quarters everybody poor.

You lived in Porter’s Quarters; everybody there poor. If you a kid and you address is so and so and so, automatically the address will tell you, “You know, this person is economically don’t have the funding to do what it requires to get through a school.” Now, as I said and we were talking before, the astute Black people that were in this town, their kids had an opportunity because either they daddy was a preacher and their mama was a school teacher. That combination right there if the kid had the upbringing they had a chance to go because there was going to be the money to go with. They could go to Bethune-Cookman. They could go to FAMU. Now there wasn’t no UF for them. UF was off the hook. You ain’t getting UF. UF didn’t come along for… I think Al Wilson, which is a friend of





mine. He got a scholarship over there probably somewhere in the early… I don’t know. I graduated in [19]71. He’s older than me. I think he went to UF later on down, but he got a scholarship from the band from Lincoln High School. I think he’s one of the very few Black that had the opportunity to go to the University of Florida. Along with, I forget the professors name now…Joel Buchannan.

	T:	He went to Gainesville High as well right? J:	Yes.

	T:	Okay. A little bit before you were there or?



	J:	Yes. Matter of fact, his brother just passed a couple of weeks ago. Both of them are gone now, Joel and Gregory Buchannan. Both of them have passed on. Mrs. Buchannan was my mother’s friend. We always kept the update on Joel.

	T:	So they were in the neighborhood?



	J:	Yeah! We all lived in the same basic neighborhood. But Joel’s parents and them had a big farming thing behind them. They had big property. In order to make sure that they find that this kid is really intelligent, it wasn’t hard to see that he wasn’t smart. He was a smart kid. It wasn’t hard not to see that. The family say that “We got somebody here that could go somewhere.” They sell some land to help that out. We ain’t have no land. We ain’t got none of that. They had big pieces of land around Gainesville. They could go sell thirty or forty acres and get some funding to help him go where he need to go. Not to say that that was the total spectrum, but he came from a different cut of economics then a lot of us had at that particular time. Yes, he was able to be one of those people. Plus, he had





what I’m doing today. He had Mrs. Buchannan saying, “Joel, you can do it. Joel you can go here. You can go there. You can go do this.” At the same time, she knew that she could support that. In my household, we were so chaotic in where the money was going to come from we didn’t know which direction you were going to in. We knew that the opportunity to get to some of these schools was not going to happen. So the military came. The military was there to say “Okay you can get the GI Bill. You can go to the military. You can get out or you can stay.” Some people stayed the twenty year. Again I said, I just couldn’t do it. It was just too much abuse mentally and physically for me to able to stay there. If it weren’t for that, I would’ve stayed twenty years too. I would’ve retired from the Navy. We just didn’t have that foundation. Right now where we are, I was talking to one my sisters and I said to her. My brother’s two sons went to the University of Florida and got degrees from over there. One’s in the insurance business in Atlanta, and the other one is a school teacher in Chicago. They went on. Those were the first of our immediate family members to have success as far as graduates in the higher level of echelon of graduation. Now, my sister’s got one grandson that’s going to Bethune-Cookman this year. We just now starting to get out of, I would say, the dark ages. We just now starting to find… My son hopefully will get through, but it’s been a struggle. He’s going to be thirty-five here October the 23rd. He’s just going to be getting through the first two years because he had all these bumps and bruises in the background until he came to the mentality that “Listen my daddy is right. The only way I’m going to get out of the situation is to get me an education.” I think education pays off at any age. You can make path





no matter when you get it. If you put it to the use that you got it for, you can make education pay anytime. It’s not a matter of what numbers and sometimes in certain arenas its numbers. How soon you get in it to how quickly you get to have success of it down the road. Just to have accomplished the fact that you graduated from somewhere is a big plus right there. I mean you can’t beat that with a stick. I always encourage no matter people say, “Oh I’m this age right here. I don’t think I can go.” Naw. You can go. [Laughter] The lady I think graduated from University of Florida I don’t know if it was last year or this term.

She was eighty years old. I don’t know what she’s going to do… Matter of fact, she was on television. That’s how I know. I don’t know what she’s going to do with the degree she got, but I mean she’s got it. That’s the big accomplishment right there. She got it. I always talk about that. I didn’t get to walk down that road, I didn’t get it. Sometime I’m upset about it because I see some of the stumbling blocks that cause me not to be able to do that. That was not afforded to my blinders that I wore. It was these other people that was in front that I did see, but I didn’t realize that they were going to say, “Oh man, we ain’t going to let him do that.” Especially since around talking to you about working for the city of Gainesville, it was a lot of racist tactics in that system. I would venture to say that it still is. I would venture to say that it is not truly cleaned up. There’s not a pure situation over there because again, if you go around town and you look at some of the crews and some of the people, you not going to see a whole lot of Black people doing technical stuff. I just saw Black guy come over from GRU talking about the electric spokesperson the other day for the kids coming back. I mean





society still got a lot of work to do in being neutral. Neutralizing the mentality of how a person is treated no matter what color they are. Again I told you that, that’s something I had to do myself because I got all these folks over her that’s Black saying-- Matter of fact, my sister told me the other day that she say she hired some people because she been in business for a while. She say she took the guy. Most of her clients are White clients. Very few Black people hiring maids or people to come in and clean up their house. That’s not happening, so most of her clients are White. This guy goes to his house the other day and he gets in and he's working. My sister comes in and says he was standing around. She spoke to him about and say, “Listen you came here to work. You got to get these people house cleaned up.” First thing he said was, “I don’t like crackers anyway.” I say, “What kind of guy is that?” That was me and her was talking on the phone. I said, “What kind of guy is that?” My point being here. We got Black people in this society that still got this I don’t know…cruel mentality. It’s just the entity of racism is not just one-sided thing. My sister and I, we neutralize that in our mind because she can’t be walking in your house and you paying her, and she don’t like you. She hate you. Because somewhere along the line that’s going to permeate out. It’s going to come out somewhere. It ain’t going to keep being hidden unless you pretty good at it. You got to be real good at it for that to be inside and it never surface. At some point, I got to come in to contact with you to talk to you about something we need to do or we didn’t do or we going to do or we should do, and also to get my money. If I don’t like you, somewhere along there through talking we going to end up feeling that animosity. It’s just I think it’s





an inevitable thing that if there’s some dislike sooner or later it rises like a cake. It comes out on its own. You can’t get past it. For this guy to say that, she and I were talking about it. It brought me to think like “Wow,” and I know the guy is younger than me. It was even a question about that. I’m going to be sixty-five this year. I know he’s younger than me. My thinking is you got a lot of guys like that, and that does not help Black people at all. That mentality does not help you at all. Hopefully, he’ll find that out and maybe subsist and subside from having that type of mentality. I would hope that that would happen. You know what I mean? I learned on my own, but again as I talked about it, I use the communication from Martin Luther King because I didn’t have anybody tell me how to discern, how to come to come to a conclusion on which way a person was. I ain’t have nobody to tell me that. Martin Luther King came on and said, “Judge a man by the contents of his character, and not by the color of his skin.” I started to use that. That gave me my ability to deal with anybody. That’s what helped me so much in being able to pick people out and don’t worry about what color he is. If you a lying White person, you just a lying White person. If you a lying Black person, you just a lying Black person because you done told me all these stories and that don’t pan out. You a liar. No matter what color you are. Now, I’m using your characteristics to make that judgement. I ain’t give a damn what color you is. You just a lying ass person, but I didn’t go by “Man, he White. I know he lying.” I ain’t do that. I use a whole different analogy. I think that, again, has helped me be a better person all around. It help me be able to walk and talk to anybody. I’m not gone down trod this person. It’s a Chinese. I don’t speak Chinese. I might not communicate with





him because I can’t speak the language, but if we got any English in there, we going to get through it. I mean just for point, again, keep myself in that particular category all the time. I use that analogy to take myself through this life. Rather than say, “Oh man I hate these people here. Oh man I hate that group of people of there.” Nah, I just wait on the character to show up. [Laughter] Sooner or later, I don’t care how it go people gone show they true colors. I study with the Baha’i Faith and tonight we going to go to the Baha’i center for food, service. They going to have speakers and so on tonight. I’m always excited about that because I find that being a part of that religious sect or group has helped me too. Because I find myself in alignment with the philosophy. I find myself being close to the foundation that they set for how you live. I find myself really close to that all the time. I grew up being Baptist. My mama made me go to church every Sunday. I was listening to some fold talk and they say – As I was saying the Baha’i was a part of my studies and different speakers I’ve had the pleasure to being in company of. The Baha’is was a part of some of the civil rights things that went on back in the days of the Civil Rights Movement. As a matter of fact, it’s been coined that Martin Luther King himself conversed with the upper echelon people in the Baha’i during the Civil Rights Movement in order to keep this picture that he wanted to keep was nonviolent and the people come together. The platform of the Baha’i is that we all can be living as one together no matter what color you are. They were already doing that. That was the picture that Martin Luther King saw. That the Baha’i Faith had people of all different ethnic groups that was together. He was saying that working if I could just get that out into the worldly





community of a whole then we could all be together. I’m still pretty adamant that for me I’m getting this knowledge a little late because I probably won’t see America come to. People being such congruent together. Right now, we got a lot of issues that have to be rectified and remedied and taken care of and people got look at with different views other than being one sided about where they are today. My Baha’i platform was that I saw where “Yes that what I always wanted.”

	T:	The Baha’i started in India? J:	India. Right

	T:	How did that start in your life –?



	J:	Well that’s some of the things we talk about. Mike was a professor at the University of Florida in IFAS. He’s a Baha’i. We talk about Baha’u’llah. How when they started the Baha’i faith next to Israel. What happens is they were saying “You can do the Baha’i faith, but don’t try to change the other people religious belief. If they want to be a part of it, they can be a part of it on they own. You’re not to go out and solicit them.” That was one of the platforms of the Baha’i being where they are in India. Tonight, we going to have open view. People are going to be talking about how the Baha’i faith is and all of that tonight. That’s what we going to be doing. I’ll get a good lesson tonight and be more awakened in my sense of speaking about how the Baha’i faith moves forward in the world as it is today. We get some good speakers. Matter of fact, I can’t think of the judge’s name now. He was a child support judge here. As a matter of fact he was mine, and I met him at the last Baha’i center meeting that we had over there. Before I





knew he was going to be a speaker, I had this position like, “This guy put me in jail.” I didn’t want to hear him speak. In the Baha’i Faith, it says, “No matter how vile a person might be, you have to forgive them.” That’s one of the platforms. Mike came to me again and said… Oh, Judge Stamper, that’s his name. He’s going to be speaking tonight at the Baha’i Center. I said to myself, “If you going to be a part of this faith, you have to go by the format that it is. You can’t be disliking this man and saying you don’t want to be around him and all this. You can’t do that. You got to do what you live and talk about, and what it says you supposed to do.” So I went. I think Mike had already kind of addressed him a little bit. I told Mike how adamant I was against going because he was the speaker. I shouldn’t have been doing that. But it worked out well. I went and we had a great time. Like tonight, they going to have food and all that. We going to get to eat and different people going to be cooking, so there’s going to be all kinds of different cakes and meals and all that. It’s going to be all kinds of good food there tonight. After he spoke, we get to mingle and talk to each other. I finally came upon him, talking about Mr. Stamper. I introduced myself. I say, “I’m Rafe Johnson.” He said, “Yeah Rafe. You might have been had a little meeting…” I can’t really reconstruct the words, but he knew that I had that attitude because I think Mike had kind of groomed him a little bit that I would be there. It went to the point that we were able to talk. I know he still a judge and I’m just still Rafe. We were able to have I would say a meeting of the minds. I was glad I did that. I was glad I stuck to the vows of my faith. I was glad I did that. Now, I grew in my mindset and how to be. I did.





	T:	What role did religion have when you were really struggling out in the streets and in prison? Did you still consider yourself religious or spiritual person?

	J:	Yes! Actually during my incarceration, they had what they call Moorish Science Temple. They have what they call “Els and Beys.” It’s been a long time, but the Moors are from the West Coast of Africa. They ruled Spain for eight hundred years or something like that. Here, you don’t see in the South. You don’t hear about that. You don’t hear about the Moors. If you go to New Jersey where the focal point of the Moors are, you’ll see people wearing the regalia and all that.

	T:	It has a red –



	J:	Yeah right exactly. You’ll see people wearing that, literally. I’m trying to think of… oh my goodness. I’m trying to think of the man’s name now. He was the founder of the Moors Science temple here in America. Somewhat like a Farrakhan and Elijah Muhammad. This guy Noble Drew Ali. He’s the founder of Moorish Science here in America. I went to prison. Well, my God was money. That’s what it all. My prison circle that’s what it circled around, money. I didn’t care about anything outside of that as long as I had some money. In could do whatever I wanted to. I had three, four, five, six, seven, eight grand. I mean in my mindset I wasn’t finna go out and buy the hope diamond. I finna just have myself a good time. Whatever I wanted to eat or wherever I want to go, I had the money to literally do it. It wasn’t like “Well man I wish I could go out tonight to a good restaurant and eat me a good meal, but I can’t afford it.” Uhn-uh. I had three grand in my pocket.

What restaurant I can’t go to? I went to one prison and then they shipped me to another one. I went to Estill, South Carolina and you’re bored to death because





there’s nothing to do. These guys would come around and say, “We having these meetings. Would you like to come?” For the first few times, no I don’t want to start meeting people because you never know in prison it’s a dangerous place.

You don’t want to start compiling yourself getting over with this group because you don’t know what they do. They be gangs and all that. You start affiliating yourself then you apart of some stuff you don’t want to be a part of automatically. “Oh you was over there sitting with them.” No. Finally, I went to a Moorish Science Meeting. Then they showed films and they associated with the Nation of Islam. They talked about that. It wasn’t set up to like batter any other religion. It was just to show where the Moors came from and why you should be a part of it. That kind of stuff. I went pretty much every week because I had nothing to do for one, and I wanted to learn about this new religion I had never heard of in my entire life. I been down here. You can walk out there now, stop somebody, and say, “You ever heard of the Moors... Moors Science Temple?” They be looking at you like “What?” [Laughter] I got that experience by going to that federal prison. We move on and I get to Jesup, Georgia. There’s no Moors, just the Nation of Islam.

	T:	What was the first federal prison? Jesup was the second one you went to?



	J:	I went to Atlanta. Then, I went to Estill, South Carolina, and Jesup was the third place I’d been.

	T:	You get to Jesup and there’s no Moors there.





	J:	There’s no Moorish Science Temple. Nation of Islam, they having their meetings. It’s one thing that’s undeniable in prison and that’s religion. They going to let you have some religion. I think that’s a part of the mechanism of keeping people calm. I guess the wardens in most of these prisons they not going to stop nothing religious you do. Nothing. If you talking about God and the religion, you can get to do that. They going to let you go. I go and I ask the chaplain, “Why is there no Moors here?” He says, “Well, I don’t know. We just ain’t got none.” I said, “Well, I want to start the first chapter here.”

	T:	Entrepreneur.



	J:	Yeah. I said, “I want to start the first chapter of Moorish Science Temple here.” Then I quoted to him the laws and the rules of what we had to do. Then he told me to bring him a list of everything that I would need to run that particular religion there. I don’t know if I took that up for the factual basis that I needed a religious handle for myself, but I didn’t want to coincide with the type of religion I had been brought up in, which was Baptist. I found so much disparity in that in the sense that there was always something in my mindset of… I won’t say all the pastors were of some illicit nature, but I had relatives that were people who they preached one way and at night they doing something else, which again that’s being judgement. They factually was doing something different. They were actually doing something different. It wasn’t like I’m judging them. They already cut the cloth for themselves. “This is what I’m doing. I got my bottle of liquor and I’m finna get drunk. That’s a factual basis. Growing up I didn’t have a choice. We went to church. Stella Tomlin and her husband Mr. Tomlin go to church every





Sunday. Then like I say, I watched this program where the guy was saying a lot of times after you get up and you’ve been forced to go to church all your life, you don’t want to go. You been going to bible study. You been going to all the little activities they have at the church. You got a friend that’s going to a dance and you know you dance as good as they do, but you can’t go because they having bible study tonight. See sometimes that works not so good after you get to be an adult. I started the Moors and we held our meetings on Friday. We did the Ramadan along with the Nation of Islam, where the prison would allow us to have our own food all that. Pork free.

	T:	Halal?



	J:	Yeah, they did that. As I say, they had not even so called-- Moors and Nation of Islam gangs. They did that. They labeled us gangs. Now, that was the pressure part of it from the establishment. “Oh what was he doing when he was on the street? Oh, he was a drug dealer or he was guy that killed three people in a drug transaction.” You had all these people and they had all your information. They knew who all was involved in these religious sects. They knew who all was involved, so they could put the connotation on you like “Well it’s another gang.

You got to keep an eye on them. Let them have what they need to have.” That’s how it went. I kind of was pretty good in that. That kept me within my bounds of not getting real because in prison people still doing bad stuff. It ain’t like they not. You not corralled up with a bunch of, and I put this word in, “Christian” people.

Everybody there for a reason. Most of those reasons weren’t very good. Okay, so people still doing all kinds of stuff. That’s what helped me stay focused on going





home rather than getting involved in too much overt activity even though I had to survive there. I did get involved in different stuff at different times. I did. I started that organization there. I don’t know if they still got it today because when I left the guys there didn’t have a person of my communication. They didn’t have somebody because I held a class every Friday for them. I had to set the agenda. Set the stage of what we were going to do that night. Sometimes we comingled with the Nation of Islam on Friday nights just to have a good program because it was only about, I think, seven eight or nine of us Moors Science guys there. The Nation of Islam probably had like twenty to twenty-five people. Something like that.

T:  Would you communicate with like a national headquarters or a regional kind of person that would help come up with lessons or programs or was that just you were curious and did it on your own?

	J:	That was just us. We got literature through the chaplain. That’s how we got it. T:	Okay, so he controlled the flow of information and –

	J:	Yes. Exactly. We got the – T:	Was he Christian?

	J:	You never just ask him straight out. T:	The chaplain?

	J:	Yeah you just say “chaplain.” Chaplain, that word covers whatever walk you come from which your religious platform that word covers it. I never really





actually knew. When I was released and I came back here to Florida and then I moved even further down South, I tried to adamantly stick with my Muslim acquiring. I tried to stick with it. Aye man, they brought too much in the house I lived in. Nobody there even understood what I was talking about. Then, I didn’t find any-- the only other group that was close to me was the Nation of Islam that was up on Temple number twenty-nine and I used to go there to try to keep in sync. I didn’t have a car and it was so far from where I was at. When they had meetings I couldn’t always make it. Now, I’m getting battled in the house where I’m living because these people are saying like “We got to go out and buy you turkey bacon, turkey this, turkey that, chicken this, chicken that, fish this, fish that. We can’t accommodate that all the time.”

	T:	This was like a halfway house?



	J:	Well, no. That’s when I got completely out, and was living in my community in the household where I went to stay at in Miami. Well, people don’t have money to go out and buy. Plus, I’m just getting out so I ain’t got no money. I ain’t even got a job. They going to cook bacon in the morning. [Laughter] They not going to go through the list of things that got pork in it. Soap got pork in it. Toothpaste. When I was in prison, you could get a list of all of the products that got pork in it.

	T:	Would they accommodate in prison like with the soap and all that?



	J:	You didn’t use that. That’s the way you got around it. You didn’t use it. Simple as that. You tried not to use it because there was like Jell-O. Jell-O is pork. It’s got pork in it. The gelatin that stuff is pork. Being new, I had to find all this out.





Toothpaste got pork in it. You see. You got to brush your teeth with something, so here you go. It’s actually super hard to get away from pork. It’s super hard to do that. That’s why some people just eat nothing but vegetables. These different countries they find ways to get around eating pork, and they bodies adjust to that. I been eating pork all my life, so it’s kind of hard to just retract from sitting down eating bacon, grits, and eggs in the morning time to just maybe grits and eggs and no pork or no meat. I wasn’t culturally centered for that. I found myself eventually moving away from the Muslim type of participation. I found myself moving away because it was just astronomically hard again to get away from all these pork products. Then for one, I didn’t have money to go out to these stores and buy the kind of products that would keep me from having to deal with pork.

Again, I was in a losing battle.



	T:	Whereas if you went to a city like New York or Detroit where or somewhere that had big Muslim population –

	J:	Yeah. Yeah. But then, I still would’ve had have the money to go purchase this stuff too. In my initial reuniting with society, I was in a bad way. With that -

	T:	You gave up on your faith that held you through.



	J:		Yeah but like I say, I didn’t want to. After a while, I had no way to really congregate with someone that had some of the knowledge that I could talk about. Like tonight, we going to be congregating. I could go to the Baha’i Center tonight and I’m going to meet people I know. We going to be talking about stuff that I





have a semblance of an idea about. That help keeps me in line with being a part of that.

	T:	It’s a pretty big jump from Miami, but how do you find out about the Baha’i? J:	How did I find out?

	T:	Yeah.



	J:	Well, the Baha’i Faith was in the community that I lived in on 75th Street. They used to come and get my son.

	T:	So this is when your back in Gainesville?



	J:	Yeah. The Baha’i started here in Gainesville in the last pretty much four, five years.

	T:	Oh wow, okay.



	J:	Because my son was first affiliated, Akil, and they still do it. They go out to Tower Oaks and they have some families that…They used to just get the kids, and they would talk to the kids about the religious entities of the Baha’i Faith and how it works. They have a little drawings or like they might buy watermelons and they come out and give a little watermelon deal and talk to the kids about the religious platforms. They still do that. They still go out and they still have groups and families out there where we lived at that they still go and see every weekend.

That’s how I got started. Carolyn is a psychiatrist. She works at Santa Fe. As I said, Mike was with IFAS at the University of Florida. He was a professor of there. Mike and Carolyn used to always come to my door and ask if Akil could





come to the class, so I would let him go. Then she started to talk to me about the Baha’i Faith when she would come. She would drop a few lines here and there. And so from time to time, I would start to talk back and start to finding out stuff about the Baha’i Faith. After a while, we had some classes. I went to the classes. Actually, they held the classes at my house. It was like about eight, nine weeks. They have books that they have. They have some books on different levels on where you are in the Baha’i Faith. So what happened, Mike then came and we went through a four course. That’s why I know about no matter how vile a person might be you still have to-- I learned that through that course. It’s also a part of the worship material. Anyway, Carolyn and Mike and them start coming. They came regularly, and they started to give me these tidbits of information. As with the Moorish Science Temple, I got more interested. Then when they sat me down and gave me this platform of continuity of all mankind, you can’t beat that. I hadn’t got that. I didn’t get that from the Moors. I won’t say that that’s not something that they put in, but I didn’t get it. I don’t get that from the Nation of Islam either. I didn’t really get that from the Baptists. I didn’t get it literally, I didn’t get it. Now, it might not be because I at some fault of my own that I didn’t get it.

Could be that. I could get this. It was a clear picture. From there, again, I’m grappling to be a part of a religious type movement, and I found it to be one that I could in my mind be satisfied with. I could find that.

	T:	Your upbringing was in what people would call the “Black church,” which is a lot of different denominations –

	J:	Yeah. Methodists. Protestants. You got all kinds of different entities.





	T:	Holiness and all that. Have people that you’ve grew up with or people that you live around now in Gainesville in the African-- Have people challenged you at all and said, “C’mon Rafe. The Baptist church or whatever, that’s the way to truth.” Have people doubted kind of your--?

	J:	My sister.



	T:	[Laughter] Might not want to talk about this, but.



	J:	No, it’s pretty much open because my sister says, “Well, you need to come to church with us.”

	T:	Church meaning…



	J:	Her Baptist church. She’s been going there since I don’t know how long now. T:	It’s not the one you went to as a child.

	J:	No. That pastor and his wife has long since passed. But no, my sister has been bottled in the particular church for years now. Matter of fact, all my grandchildren go there because of her. She’s actually in charge of the church band. She goes to my son’s house and picks up my grandchildren and takes them to her church. Now, Akil don’t go because goes to Baha’i like he going tonight with me. He goes to Mike and Carolyn’s house and that’s what they talk about. When I was in the hospital that one time, Mike kept Akil for me at his house because I had nobody else to keep him. Yeah, my sisters always… She don’t just handle me. I tell her “This the way I’m going. This is what my religious platform is. I don’t badger you about the building fund at the church.” There’s a saying that all Black churches





got a building fund, [Laughter] You go to church the preachers first thing he say is “Well listen, we got to give God his share, then you got to put your share in the building fund.” Sometimes, they don’t even put a doorknob on the church. They taking that money doing everything in the world with it. I just tell her, “This is what I’m doing. This is where I feel comfortable at.” I’m sure there’s other people who have searched and lo0oked through different religious views. Looked at being this type of religion. There’s some people just stuck with the religion they got. I mean they came up Catholic that’s it. Then again, I can’t say that in an adamant sense. That you can’t move away from being a Catholic to being a Baptist. I can’t say that you can’t do that, but I would think that from my seeing the views of how it work that you were born in the Catholic platform that’s where you at. If you were born in the Jewish platform, that’s where you are. There’s a number of different platforms in that too because I know some Jews that will rob you blind. They don’t have no ethics on how they go about, but the Jewish platform is supposed to have ethics and all that. I mean you don’t just get outside of some of these guidelines because you got a biblical platform already laid out for you. I think from Genesis to Deuteronomy or somewhere I think the five books of the Bible is the Torah. You got your line already set. Once you say “I’m Jewish,” you supposed to be doing certain specific things in this world. You go to Miami Beach you going to see some of those people that’s up those black suits with the long beards doing what they supposed to be doing. You could go sit up with a guy that really, as they use the word, unorthodox. You go see this guy. He done got the suit and tie on, he’s sitting up in his office. I met him in prison. Jewish lawyers





come in and he’ll lie through his teeth to you. He’ll tell you, “I’m going to get you out. I need thirteen thousand dollars tomorrow morning and we going to make sure to put a motion in. Do this. Do that. Do this.” He’s lying through his teeth. He ain’t going to do nothing. You finna get all that time that you could’ve kept your money for because he’s not going to be done nothing but rob you. Next time you see him again, he say, “I’m going to need twenty-five more thousand because I got to get this special investigator to come in and do this and this.” Just milking you with that. I searched and now I’m comfortable where I’m at in my mind.

	T:	I should say that we’re sitting out here on you got a couple of acres of property out here I would guess.

	J:	Not quite. It’s a little over an acre though. Acre and a quarter something like that.



	T:	That makes me think that you enjoy nature and the woods, and I’m curious seeing how you grew up in a more urban part of Gainesville. Then you were in prison and there wasn’t a whole lot of nature I imagine. What role has nature played in your life?

	J:	In growing up in Jonesville, we went hunting. Me and my grandfather went hunting. Like I was telling you about, we had these pit bulls and good old hounds and we went out and basically at that time it was totally rural. I ate black birds out the woods. Cherries, them old bittersweet cherries off the trees. It wasn’t really kind that come in that jar. It was cherries but they be kind of bittersweet. They wouldn’t be the other ones. Just in doing that, just being able to roam and go where you wanted to go. Up and down the dirt roads and the thing I used to like





to look at was the lizard trails. They out there. Out in my yard now. They be running back and forth across the road. You can see where they little feet because the roads were dirt. I would like to, as a boy, when I went down the road I would like to look for the little trails of the little lizards that ran back and forth across the road. Yeah, I kind of was into a real nature environment because there was cows all around me. There was hogs all around me. We used to always go across this cow pasture where Mr. Fletcher and them… Right now on Newberry road, you can see a sign that says Butler, Fletcher and all them. Those people owned lots of land in Jonesville. We used to have to cross his land to get to my cousin’s house. It wasn’t a lot, but it was probably as much as this. He had cows out there. I learned the hard way that those cows would chase you. I end up being in a tree for hours until that bull decided to walk off. Soon as I got a jump on him, I had to hit it for the fence. [Laughter] That kind of stuff. When we went hunting, as I think I mentioned before, we were out, myself and my grandfather, this is the biggest bull we ever came up on. We were in the woods and the dog, one of the pits ran up under one of the palmettos everywhere, that hog was under the palmetto, and the dog ran up under there, one of our best pits too. He came out on the tusk of the hog. The hog just tossed him over, and the dog was just lying there. My granddaddy went over and shot the dog because he was suffering. Next thing I know, I looked and here this big, huge hog he’s out there pawing in the ground. Next thing I know, he come charging at us. That was one scary moment. I think my pants got wet that day. I know it did because that thing was huge. My granddaddy leveled on him and Boom! When he stopped





sliding he was right in between our legs. That would mean he was running. He was coming and he died right there. That hog was so big. We used to tote them and take them back. My granddaddy just put him around his neck and tote him, but we had to go get the wagon to get this one. He was so big. I acclimated with nature all the time. What happened when we came to Gainesville, well it was somewhat rural. There wasn’t all the development that we got today. Big city stuff wasn’t even heard of for me. The only time when I got in the military and got away from here I started seeing what city life was because Gainesville was a much more rural community back during my time than it ever is now. Yeah, so I start to get the city stuff when I got in the Navy meeting all these guys from Memphis, New York, Chicago, Boston, all these big city places. They had a whole world on me. They was already junkies and all kind of stuff already. They was already shooting dope in they arms.

	T:	Talking fast and--



	J:	All that. They had gambling schemes out this world. They would rob you at the drop of the hat. We had all that. I was thrown into all that just like that. That’s how I came upon a lot of the procuring women to selling them. See I didn’t know what a prostitute was. I had an idea in that it was girls living in a building near us that my mama would allude to and say, “She’s a whore.” [Laughter] I didn’t really know what a whore was. That’s what my mama say, so you kind of take that as “Okay, that’s what she is.” She’s a whore. Actually knowing what she did unless you heard a little gossip about “Oh she was having sex with this man for money or something,” you never had a clear view of what that was until I got in the Navy.





As I talked about during the Telling project, I went to Memphis, Tennessee to Millington for the fleet prep and, we went to town to buy clothes. As I got off the bus, this lady asked me say, “Aye, you want a date?” I thought I had died. I said, “What!” Boy, this the best place in the world. I ain’t been no place better than this. These people ask you for a date. My friends, as I said, were telling me, “Rafe, let me tell you something.” I said, “Man listen, you interrupting me now. You ain’t finna mess this up. I just came from basic training. I ain’t had nothing. It’s time to do something. That lady asking me to have a date. Don’t get in my way.” He went, “Come here man. Get over here.” Now these the city boys. He say, “Man, that’s a prostitute. You going to have to give her ten dollars for her and two dollars for the room.” I say, “I guess I’m going to buy me some clothes then. I’m going to buy me something downtown.” I didn’t know nowhere to go. They knew. The girls knew, but I wasn’t finna just venture off. We all came in this little group. It would be kind of like “Okay I’m just finna run off from y’all,” which I really don’t know what I’m doing because they here schooling me on what was going on.

Why would I just leave the people who knew to go off on some adventure with somebody I don’t know? I been with these guys through basics and all that. I kind of pretty much got some confidence in what they talking about. I don’t know this lady. That’s how it moves out. I didn’t get to do that. Reaching back and living out here. When I saw this place on the internet, I said “This is where I got to live.”

	T:	You saw all the pine trees and the space and everything.



	J:	Yes. It took a lot for me to get here. Not in money. In the bureaucracy that went on to be in this place. It was on ordeal. I would never use a real estate company





again per se to buy and sell because it was an atrocious time. The VA had its hand in it too in the packaging of the deal to get here. I saw this place on the internet and you know over a period of time we were homeless, me and Akil. Akil was about two years old and we got evicted because my job closed. I didn’t get fired or wasn’t throwed out of it. The job just went out of business.

	T:	On the Border?



	J:	Yeah, it went out of business. Couldn’t afford to pay all this money that we needed to live where we were living so we eventually got evicted. I’ll never forget the day we were sitting there on the curb. Akil was sitting next to me. This little ole boy about two. He was looking up at me. He don’t know. Just like today, he don’t know nothing about that. He don’t know we did all that, which is good. He already had had enough problems. He was looking up at me and I was looking at him like “Oh boy, son, we got a bad way to go right here now.” Not just me, it’s him too. Fortunately, God looked out for us and put us in a good scenario to where it all worked out. That wasn’t my first time being homeless here. That was my second time because before Akil was born I lived in this apartment building.

The man put me out because I would not per se snitch on whoever did the-- what he called criminal acts around the place. He eventually put me out based on frivolous foundation like that. See, that was my second time. To my thinking as I started to get my income to come up, which it still not to the point where I can be like really comfortable, I said “Listen, if I get the opportunity to own my own place. That’s what I’m going to do.” I’m going work at setting myself in a position to do that. So I start to compromise on things you, I wouldn’t go out and just squander





my money. For a long time I ain’t drink or nothing. For a long time because alcohol is an expense. Ain’t drinking none of that. I kept thinking. What really pushed was they was going to go up on the rent. Rent was already exorbitant. It was already up there. When the man says he going up another twenty-five dollars.

	T:	Was this like a rooming house?



	J:	No. I was living in an apartment out there on Tower Oaks Village. Well the VA had gotten me out of the street back in 2010, [20]11, and [20]12 with the housing program they got. I couldn’t get regular housing in Gainesville based on the fact that I had a criminal history. They still do that even with my son. I got full custody of that boy. They wouldn’t not give me housing. I thought that was kind of like “Wow. We in the street but I can’t get housing because of my dealings in the past.”

	T:	No second chance.



	J:	No, none of that. Anyway, the VA picked me up, so I lived on that program. As I got income they start asking me to pay, which is honorable. I don’t mind paying. Then it got down to year before last, my income went up considerably compared to what it started out being from zero. It went up. They say well he got this substantial income coming in which that word shouldn’t even be applied to the money I get. It’s not substantial at all. They say “Okay, we going to raise the amount of money that he has to pay to live on this program.” Well, they wanted to go up to about five hundred bucks a month for the program, which if I had no





other options I would’ve had had to pay it to keep a roof over our head. Anyway, I came to the conclusion that I need to start to try to purchase a place because I think for that for a hundred more dollars I could be buying the place I live, rather than paying these people to own nothing. Plus, again, my background as being a real estate person allowed me to think in that capacity because I owned a couple of house before disasters and other things that came along and cost me those places. Anyway, my mind was never not to say “I’m not going to try or seek to own my own place again.” With that incentive of paying that much money per month, I calculated everything up. I say “I could afford to pay this amount of money for a place to be. I just need to find one.” Sure enough, came along, I was just going to different real-estate sites on the computer like my son doing them dirt bikes out there, and up pop this place right here. I looked and said “That’s gorgeous. I need to be living there.” I could see a lot of solitude in there. I could see a lot of peace in there. I could walk out and go in the woods and you’d be going almost over to the prairie. [Laughter] You keep going out my backyard. You be in the woods. Its deer and stuff walking around out there. Its deer be right out there. I could come out on the porch and it be two three little baby deer and a mama or daddy or something. It be right out there eating in the field. I got pictures on my phone of them. Yeah, being in the setting in Jonesville as a young person, that picture of it was really quite out there too. All you’d here was the animals and different things tweeting. The frogs when it rained. That kind of stuff. We get the same thing around here. Yes, my years out in Jonesville had a lot to





do with my mindset of when I saw this. I said, “This is a place I want to be to be comfortable.” That’s how basically I got here.

	T:	Is this house the first place you’ve lived in the East Gainesville like East of Waldo Road or you live?

	J:	Well, no. I used to live right down the road from here. I bought, when I got out of the Navy and got through all the stuff, I was living here in Gainesville. I bought a trailer and I had it in that trailer park when you come down Hawthorne Road, right past the sheriff department there. When you get past that light, you see a sign that say “For sale” on the right side on the road. That was a trailer park. Matter of fact, they added that trailer to this place right here because I ended up losing that trailer out there. I don’t even know where it went, what happened to it, or nothing. It’s kind of like it was all blank. I can see why people say that because I try to look back and say “I wonder what happened to that trailer?” Because I got no recollection of it. I knew I lived there for about two years, and then one day all hell broke loose and shit just crashed. I went into the drug scenes and all of that kind of shit and it was over with. I don’t know what happened to it after that.

	T:	Wow.



	J:	Yeah. I didn’t know why I even got there. I mean to the point to the point of not knowing or not being there. I know it started with me and girl starting to break up. From there, it trickled on down. Ended up, I moved out, left her there, and then end up didn’t have no place to go after that. I didn’t want to go back to her because that was just too much. I couldn’t think of maybe it was something to do





with my mind as to why I couldn’t take myself back. I never thought about Post Traumatic Stress. I never thought that it was a possibility that something was really wrong; why I couldn’t understand the air of saying I’m going to go back. It was something there that kept me from going back to salvage that. It was something. I never thought about maybe there was something that happened to you prior to even getting there that had something to do with why you won’t go back. I never could fathom that at all. Now today, I could see, not just in that situation, but once I became cognitive of what Post Traumatic Stress does to you and how things that our apart of that whole picture can affect you unbeknownst to you. You don’t even know why you did that. You kind of be like I say “blacked out.” Like I had a nice car, I don’t know what happened to that car. I knew that one time I had this nice vehicle, all of a sudden… that was at the second place that I bought which gets to, yes I lived over here before. Not this far out. I lived on Southeast 8th Street. That’s like 43rd now. Thirty something blocks back the other way. That’s just to cross it. More toward Lincoln Middle School in that area. I stayed over there for like three years in that house. I was in the real estate business I bought that house from a man named Mr. Phil Gaino. He sold me that house at that time for twenty-eight thousand dollars. It was hardwood floors, two bed-room, one bath, and a big shed on the back. I built the fence, if I take you by that house right now, the fence that I put there is still there. I built the fence that’s around the house right now. It’s still there. That’s how good it is. That fence been there for about forty years. Me and my friend Santo Patigula built that fence to that house. Again, that house and the life that I lived there got obliterated again. I





couldn’t tell you what happened. Again, like I say, I didn’t realize that there was probably something that I couldn’t put my finger on.

	T:	You talked about the traumas that you experienced in the Navy being called up on deck and watching the pilots bodies burned, so you were trying to rescue them. But, do you consider things that happened to you as a kid as far as being told by the guidance counselor “No you can’t do this or interactions with the police.” Do you consider those experiences to be a part of the Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, or is it mostly the military stuff?

	J:	I probably knew that was like set in stone. I probably knew that I wasn’t going to college, but for you to tell me that’s kind of like slapped me with it. “Oh Ryan, you not going to go to college. You not economically set.” I can’t say that I fathom that and took that. I’m sure it had it’s little dot in there. Of course, the interactions with the police from say eleven, twelve years old I started having interactions with the police around that time. Most of time, the police was a White policeman because for one, we only had two Black policemen period in Gainesville. Yes, I was not confronted by those individuals in a… you still don’t get it. Today, it’s still pretty much about the same treatment since, pretty much. They just cleaned up some I would say. They not totally in the view that they should be in. You should be not just because you in a distressful situation that they the best people you gone see. You got a gun on me and the police show up. “Oh man, thank you.

You showed up just in time.” You should be able to say thank you before the guy pulled the gun on you. That’s the way I see it. Yeah, the police at that time were really terrible. Yes, that had its mark. It wasn’t like a really big thing because at





one time, we had our own little social situation to where we didn’t allow the police to come in our arena. We had it to that point the police prepared to get shot at.

T:   Was it JOMO or?



	J:	Yeah the JOMO organization. The Junta of Militant Organizations. That’s the acronym.

T:   That’s what you’re thinking of when you’re describing that period.



J:  Yeah. We shoot at the police. Gainesville didn’t have a lot of policemen, so they send Sarge down there before any of the White policemen would come down 5th Avenue until after a while. They start to acclimate in and start to come down.

T:   Were people in the community pretty supportive of JOMO? Or was there a – J:   Not really. My mama wasn’t.

T:   Thought you were stirring up trouble and inviting it kind of.



	J:	Yeah my mama. “Y’all better leave them White people alone. [Laughter] That’s what my mama be saying. “Y’all better leave them White people alone. Y’all know y’all don’t pose to be bothering them people with all that foolishness. Y’all walking around here with them guns. Them people gone come down here and shoot all y’all. They bring out this and they’ll do that.” Now, that was the community parenting older people’s communication to you. “Boy, I know you ain’t with them people” That’s what the old lady sitting on her porch. She got a mouth full of snuff; got a plug of tobacco in her mouth. She do her finger. “Boy I know you ain’t with that mess. Y’all just done got too much. Y’all done gone too far





now. You know them White people ain’t gone like that now. Y’all out there walking around acting like y’all Mr. Big Shot and all that. Y’all children need to quit. Y’all should be trying to get an education.” Well, yeah, the education that was being given was a second hand one that you was getting from, as I said the books came from GHS. You could read somebody else name already in them. A lot of times the older people, no, they weren’t with the program. You didn’t have an old man saying, “Yup, y’all doing right thing. Go on out there and go tell that. Make sure y’all do that.” Naw. For one, the Black community, the older community, were already scared. They were scared from the Jim Crow. They knew what could happen.

	T:	They’d seen it.



	J:	They seen it. The houses been burnt down.



		T:		Could I ask here in Jonesville wasn’t there a famous lynching of multiple people? J:	The Newberry Six.

	T:	I wanted to ask you about that. I don’t know if you could speak on that before what you were seeing back in the [19]70s with the older generation, but what do you remember about that? Did you hear about that?

	J:	I went to the one hundred anniversary, Me, Mike and Carolyn. Matter of fact, Mike and Carolyn was the one-- because I knew nothing about it.

	T:	Really! You never heard about it?





	J:	Never heard about it. My cousins, them knew, but again they older than me.



Some of them like eight, nine, ten years older than me, maybe fifteen years older than me. They don’t talk about the Newberry lynching.

	T:	Did they know back in though?



	J:	Yeah they knew. My cousin told me after I went told me all about it because I was trying to tell him. My cousin lives in Newberry. He was telling me he said, “Yeah I knew. You didn’t know?” I said, “No, I ain’t know! I ain’t know nothing about no lynching like that where they had the six people hanging out.” When you go where Hitchcock is going to Newberry, there’s an open field out there. That’s where those people were hanging for so many days. They let them people hung out there. Six Black people. Ironically, I had went to the guy whose family started the whole thing. I had just went to they property because my cousin’s son had got killed. I have to really reach back to think of his name. I was on this guy’s property, so when I went to the church to the meeting that they held in memorial for these six people. They gave his name. That family lives right next door to my cousin and them. They got property right next door. If you came out of my cousin’s yard, went cross a road, and went through a gate, you be on these people property.

	T:	Wow, so this happened pretty close to where you spent your early years?



	J:	Yeah where I grew up at! They still live there. They still own the property there. T:	Basically neighbors it sounds like.





	J:	Yeah they were neighbors to my relatives. We all know each other. Yeah. But I go to the church and they start talking about the Newberry lynching. And so, they did the commencements and the whole nine yards about it. Afterwards, I call my cousin because he lives in Newberry and I was telling him about it. “Well you know, they hung six people back a hundred years ago, and I just came from the service.” He said, “Oh yeah.” I said, “The Newberry Six.” He said, “Yeah you ain’t know about that? Its right there across from Hitchcock going to Newberry when you get around that curb Hitchcock’s sits up on the hill. It’s right across the street from them.” My cousin’s daddy named was David worked for the University of Florida. “When he came home, he saw those people hanging there.” He say his daddy told him about it. They went and he got the opportunity to see those people hanging from those trees out there.

	T:	You cousin?



	J:	My cousin.



	T:	Wow.



	J:	Yeah. The story is that the people who lived right next door to my cousins today one of their relatives shot the sheriff of this county and killed him and wounded one of his relatives that was in the car with him. So what happened, they say the White people in that area, out in Jonesville, got so mad till they just went around and they killed nine other Black people who had nothing to with that. Those ones that they hung was a part of that nine folks that got killed. Those are innocent people. I’m tying to think. If I called my cousin, he could tell me the guy’s name.





Growing up, I didn’t just live around them and stay. I know factually because I just went out there. My cousin’s son got killed about a year ago now and they was having a fish fry at that family’s person’s house. When I went to the church and they name came up and the story goes about their family was the one to cause all those people to get killed because that one guy was on the run from the sheriff. The sheriff came to the property to tell his daddy to turn him in, and he shot the sheriff. Killed him. That’s how that whole Newberry lynching came about. My older cousins, they knew.

	T:	Why do you think that you never learned about it from because were your grandparents in Jonesville?

J:   Yeah, well my grandparents had passed. Fred, which is one of my first cousins, his sister is eighty years old. I was just at her house like a couple months ago in Jonesville.

	T:	But your grandparents were in Jonesville at the time of the lynching? J:	Yeah.

	T:	Why do you think they never told you about it? Do you think you were too young? J:	Yeah. Think I was too young then.

	T:	Do you think if they lived a few more years they would’ve.



J:   Well they passed a little bit before I got to be… I think when my granddaddy died I was about twelve. My grandmamma died I was probably like six or seven.

When that happened, I was probably too young.





	T:	So you don’t really know how they reacted to the lynchings and how it changed there?

	J:	No because it was always something of that nature, maybe not to the point of lynching as I said, the Klan came to our house, put a cross in our yard, and set a fire. Then ran around round the house on horses.

	T:	And your grandpa chased them off.



	J:	That’s right. You were subject to being in harm’s way at any time. The mentality of the White population in Jonesville at the time you were subject to be drugged, beat, whatever at any given time. You know what I’m saying? The only time that might not happened to you is when the incident happen you just gone let them kill you. I’m sure that happened. I mean I’m sure there could be some stories that’s still untold about Blacks who were not just in Newberry lynching but Blacks that--I recall a time my auntie told me that there was a tree in Newberry where they specifically brought people to hang. You were always in harm’s way. Such as, we talk about today, the police shootings. They relate to all that too. It’s just such a distance between the time span. Now, the other day the police shot a White lady. The lady that came out the house and into the back.

	T:	In Minneapolis.



	J:	Yeah and the guy in the police just shot her. The prime minister of Australia came in on that one. The Prime Minister of Australia say that somebody got to get some justice about that. Now we going to find out somewhere down the line what’s going to happen to this police that shot this lady that was just calling for





help because she thought somebody was in the back of the house? She didn’t have no gun. What position is the policemen now? Mainly Black people, in most incidents, are terribly scared of the police. That’s why they can’t get that continuity in my opinion because I’m scared of them too. My older son would tell you, “Daddy the police pulled me. I’m not going to stop until I’m in a lighted position and around some other people.”

	T:	He’s going to what?



	J:	He say, “I’m not going to stop until I’m in a lighted area and around some other people.” My son’s only thirty-five years old. His mentality already thinking “The police are not going to be fair with me.” I gave you the instance where I was over to some friend’s house about a couple of months ago. I was walking to my car and the police pulls up. He say, “Hey you, come here.” He say, “You live over here.” I say, “No. I certainly don’t, but I do have a residency here in Gainesville. What’s that guy doing up there by the police station protesting with the sign that says corruption and all that?” He says, “Oh that’s just some guy.” I say, “No it’s not. That’s not just some guy. That guy got a sign that say veteran on one side and corruption on the other. Okay so he ain’t just some guy.” Then they just shined it on and then they drove off. At the same time, if I had not engaged them in something somewhat sensitive to them, they would’ve probably continued, “You got some ID on you? Can you do this? Can you do that?” That kind of provocation kind of stuff. I’m at my friend’s house. “They don’t go to Haile Plantation and drive up in someone’s yard and say what you doing in this driveway?” They don’t do that. It’s a lot of subdivision around here they ain’t





going to drive up in and do that. We happened to be in Duval. Duval is predominantly Black. You see. They figure “Ain’t no gated community here.” Most gated communities the police can’t get in unless somebody let them in.

	T:	The guard house.



	J:	Yeah. You can’t get in there unless someone let you in there. Again, I used to be in the limousine business and so in South Florida, there’s gated communities everywhere. When I came to pick Ryan up and take him to his super job or take him to the airport to catch a flight to Europe or somewhere, I had to put in 0-5-3-

2. You come on the phone on the thing in the house and say, “Well I’m here from Aventura Limousine.” Then the gate would start sliding open. Then I’d drive in, come to your house, and pick you up. Duval or Gardenia you drive right in. There’s no resistance to you. There’s no formalities to get in there. In that, you’re more subject to the less prudent actions from the policemen. They already don’t see you as they would if they would if they had to come into a gated community. To kill that lady. I don’t know how they got off that far. I really don’t. Somebody is going to come to terms on that.

	T:	To bring it back to your teenage years when you were talking about the generational differences between the older folks who Jim Crow had been so impressed upon them, your generation too but it seems that you had reached a point of consciousness where you were trying to overcome that mentality, did it create any kind of conflict or strains among the generations? Did you kind of just respect that the older felt the way they did because they had been that era –





	J:	They been through something. Let me say something man, listen – T:	There was no kind of Uncle Toms?

	J:	There was a little bit of that. You had some older people who were programmed to the point that you couldn’t do nothing without them either telling some White person about what you were doing. You couldn’t plan to do something that might be devious in a form, so you wouldn’t let them know. [Laughter] You know they gone tell. When we planned to fire bomb all these stores, you didn’t tell no older people about it. “Boy, we finna go burn down these buildings.” You ain’t tell them because been done find the first person they could tell that gone tell the police that to be over there waiting because “Them children finna go over there and we need that store.” “We need that store. That’s our meet and book place. We can go down and get credit and all that.” At the same time, yeah you could go down and get credit. Our view was these was the establishments in our community, that they were making money in our community and taking that money out. That was the platform in a lot of the younger Blacks mind. See, the older people had plenty sense in the fact that they knew that they knew they were poor and that they needed that facility to be there. We didn’t think like that. That’s totally from one spectrum to the other. Their position, again I say, was good because some of those stores if you didn’t have no money you could go down there and get some pork chops, get you some eggs, and get some of the things you needed to feed the three or four or five kids you had. That’s what they were looking at. They were looking at the family entity of it.

	T:	Y’all were looking more at the structural.





	J:	Yeah, we looking at how society already screwing us, how we didn’t get to do this, or do that. His children go to some school so and so somewhere. That still goes on today. The mentality of that is not totally gone. I was watching Jerry Springer the other day. If I’m not having this clear view in my mind, this triggers people. Watching Jerry Springer, which sometimes occasionally I do. Jerry Springer had student week. All the kids there at the show were students at some college or going to be in the fall. He says, “We got children here from such and such university. Would you all stand up?” Half of the audience stand up. Then he come back and says, “We got another university here. Would you all stand up?” They all stood up. But guess what? I didn’t see the first Black kid in none of that. That was amazing. There might have been one in the back somewhere in that segment in that show. I say “That’s just unbelievable that that room was full of people going to school and I didn’t see ten Black people in there.”

	T:	Usually his audience is pretty diverse.



	J:	Yeah but that was just students that time. That audience was just students.



That’s all that was in there was kids that was going to school. He had the two different universities. He announced them and told them to stand up. Clearly, in that collective group, I might have seen one Black kid. I thought that was literally amazing that there wasn’t ten. I’ll give you something that’s even closer to home. The dentist that worked on my mouth was Korean. He was such a good guy with me and so patient in working. Until I went to his graduation. I went to Zach’s graduation in the dental thing last year. I counted the number of Black people that was graduating from dental school. It was only five.





	T:	Out of?



	J:	Out of… What! Stage full of people. T:	Okay, it was in the basketball arena. J:	It was in the Phillips Center. Yes.

	T:	Okay, so a big space [Laughter]



	J:	Big Space. We in the Phillips Center. Yeah. I counted five Black people graduating with dental degrees. It’s something wrong with that picture. There’s something wrong with that picture on Jerry Springer. What do we do about it? How do we get this disparity brought more in a light? In my opinion, you get some of that stuff where you get more Black kids going to schools, lot less criminal activity. If they not going to school, they going to do something. They going to be selling coke, heroin, weed. They going to be selling something to get some money because they want to buy nice cars. I see students come here with BMWs and all kids of cars.

	T:	Yeah. Audi’s.



	J:	Yeah. Mercedes-Benz. I see all that. I seen a kid drive a pretty brand new red Mercedes coup the other day. I know he just got to town because he was looking around to see where he was going. Kind of like when you go to New York, they know you ain’t from there when you looking up at the buildings. [Laughter] This kid was driving around trying to look around like what street to turn on. Driving a brand new Mercedes. Now, ain’t nothing wrong with that. This is America. This is





a place where prosperity should be looked upon like “This is what you supposed to do.” When the prosperity of a group of people is per se when you look at the overall view and it’s being controlled in some fashion, some people going to get mad about that. What to do? How we going to get passed it? I’m not going to live to see it. My older son, he coming out of the mud. Still got mud up around his ankles right now. You can’t go too fast in the mud when you keep going to pull your feet out. After a while, you got to get up on some concrete then you can go. That’s where he’s at in my dramatic view. My other son here, as I said, I want to see him have a better start than all that. As long as I’m alive, I’m going to give him all the input that helps him be more of a viable person in thinking towards education to help move out of this picture that I see of Blacks being the part that they end up in prisons. As we talked about the police, police done shot I don’t know how many Black folks since 2016. They done killed about twelve, thirteen people. Every time the law says “Well we’re not guilty.” The lady went to the jail. They say she hung herself. We don’t know factually what happened, but that’s a probability. She could’ve said “Well I’m not going to get a fair chance here. Hung herself.” The lady that they stopped, carried her, and ended up arresting her. She ended up hanging herself in jail. That’s just one out of many when you start to look at the overall picture. When you get right down to it, society has got a lot to do. There was this question that says, “When was the last time that you had a Black person to your house to do anything?” Not just cut the yard, but you had him over for a cup of coffee. You had him over and offered him a sandwich or something? I see this commercial on T.V. this neighbors move in. Well the one





lady comes to door with a pie. I forget the basis of the commercial but she come to the door with a pie as a way to get in the house to see what the house look like that the lady just bought and moved into. The lady that’s living in the say “Just come on bring the pie in and just go and be nosy and look at what you want.” [Laughter] It’s a funny commercial, but it got a connation to it like say I moved here the lady over there came over. She came over because they once owned all this property. Her and her husband once owned all this property. The collective news of Blacks that lived out here before say ten years ago when her husband was alive said he didn’t allow Black people on his property. That house right there when you go back out. Because I had people say, “You live over there?” I said, “Yeah.” They say, “Boy, there used to be a time where nobody could go over there.” I said “Yeah?” “Yeah! Years ago, we come down here try to get an opportunity to cut the yard or something. He’ll run us out of his yard.” The lady is really nice. He’s dead now so…I guess that makes a dramatic change. You ain’t gone run nobody out the yard no more. For one, this place that I bought here. It was a mixed couple lived here. The man worked for the post office that owned this property and he was a veteran, and a really good man. He overtly stuck with me to get this property through a lot of ordeal. He was fabulous. I can’t say any more than that. He was fabulous because there was a lot of snags that came up from the real estate end of it. They were blocked on a lot of stuff up along the way. Actually, the VA did they part at blocking things up by declaring me incompetent.





	T:	I remember you talking about this the last time. Then you had to go to, what is it?



Ted Yoho office to get it all rectified.



	J:	Yes, it wasn’t Ted then. I think God had a hand in it. Anonymously out of nowhere, it all changed. Even they didn’t know it. The real state people knew it before them so that tells me that something came in there that was not a part of what we normally get done.

	T:	The day-to-day politics of it.



	J:	Yeah and we here. Yes, this it got its natural… I sit on that porch out there and it’s therapeutic to me too here. That helps me because when I look out there. I see this beautiful nice scenery. I don’t see people beating up one another down on the corner because when I lived in those apartments, you might see anything. It be a gun fight around the corner from you. You know, that don’t happen. You got the deer out here. We just acquired a couple dogs. Matter fact, Tracey’s son one of them is his, so we gone only have one when he gets his new apartment. He going to come stay with us for probably a couple of weeks so he can get his apartment straightened out because the apartments he lived in he had to move from to get closer to work and all that kind of stuff. But anyway, this location, man. Sometimes, I don’t want to leave or go nowhere. I really don’t. I probably left here today to go to the store to get some water and a few snacks for Akil prior to you coming. Yesterday, we left here and rode some bikes. We went to park.

Form here all the way down to 25th Street, you got the Nature Center. You got Cone Park. You just got a lot of good stuff around. I’m thankful to be able to be sitting here. I really am. I’m blessed and thankful to be sitting here.





	T:	You’re in the second half of your life so you’re hoping that you’ll be able to enjoy a tranquil –

	J:	Yes, tranquil time, not a lot of hustle and bustle. I do want to do some vacationing. We were talking about vacations the other day. The lady that comes with the nurse that was here today, they sent another lady. She came today and cleaned up and keep the place kind of tidy because a lot of that stuff I can’t do. I mean I be wore out trying to keep it up even at my apartment they came and helped me out with the dishes and stuff like that. She went to Puerto Rico and she was just talking to me about passports. I had been saying “I got to get me a passport.” I didn’t know how much it cost because I thought they were really expensive. She told me it was on like one hundred and thirty bucks to get a passport. I said, “Well, I’m going to get me one because I want an opportunity to be able to maybe go to Puerto Rico.” I saw some pictures in Puerto Rico. I mean [Laughter] if I don’t get to go nowhere but to Puerto Rico, I mean just for an example, I want to be able to get to go somewhere. Just take me one decent rip maybe three days and two nights something like that to hang out somewhere to kind of get the groove up. Maybe a five day spot because about two days I’ll just be getting into the groove of where I’m at. [Laughter]. I think a good five day trip would be good. I don’t care if I did it but one time. I just want to do it. I just want to have that done. As it looks, I’m stagnated in funding which is usually the thing you need to acquire something to do something like that. We going to work it out some kind of way. Yeah, I don’t know when it’s going to happen, but we going try to start to plan and coordinate. My first goal is to get me a passport. I’m going to





first get me a passport and work on that. I hurt my back. I was kind of depressed because I didn’t think I’d be able to take care of this place. Now that I’m getting better. You seen how the yard looked when you came up. I did all that yesterday and last weekend I did all the hedges and stuff. This has been good for me.

	T:	One of the many things that I’ll say about you in talking to you Rafe is that you always find a way. You’ve been dealt some hands, but you always found a way. Now I wonder like “How did he even stay alive or how did he not just get consumed by anger that totally paralyzed anyway forward?” but you always found a way.

	J:	I have to agree. I’ll tell you. I give God a lot of credit. I don’t know who believes or what, but me, I give God a lot of credit for dispensing some of the entities of things that could of went wrong. Particularly when I start to recognize that I have this view of what God is. When I start to recognize that, things start to be quite different. I would say when you stop being a heedless person, you might be, in a sense, soliciting some outside help. As I said, there was a lot of happening that I had no control over to get here. I have to truly believe that God has something to do with me being where I’m at today, and for me being intact as well, per se, as I am today. I’m still missing here in some psychological sense. I’ll say that I’m going to see my psychiatrist. People say, “Oh, you crazy?” No. I need professional help.

	T:	Yeah, people try to put a big stigma on it.





	J:	I need somebody who knows something about how your mind works and can give you some directions in how to make your mind work like an engine in a car. I can’t tune it up, but a mechanic can. I ain’t going to turn my car up; I don’t know how. So, why would I be out there trying to do something and mess up some more stuff instead of going get me a mechanic that knows how to do it? I look at that in the same sense of my mind. I go see my psychiatrist, and I put it on the table some of the-- I can’t put all of the issues on table because shoo we would be there for two, three years with that. I put the ones somewhat most pertinent to me in my mind. I get the feedback, and they tell me “Maybe you should try this or that.” Some of the things that they bring up you participate with it, it works out because they know the workings of the mind. Who better to be talking to?

	T:	They listen too. I’ve been to some and just talking to someone that’s being paid not to judge you for –

	J:	Right. I can go and tell them I hated to rob them people, but my mind just told me to do it. “Well, how you feel when you robbed them?” They be asking you stuff like that. “How did you feel when you did it? Did you feel remorse about it? Were you excited that you do it?” That tells you a lot about that human being.

Like I said, all the things I’ve done in an illicit manner, yes I got feelings about it. They not feelings like “Oh boy, you were great at doing that. You were good at doing that.” It might have been a good scheme as far as the success I had in it, but it wasn’t right.

	T:	You know that you weren’t born with a purpose to do those things. They were just circumstantial.





	J:	Circumstances. Economic circumstances has a bearing on pretty much everybody.

	T:	Yeah, one way or another.



	J:	One way or another. You know it’s better, and I say this all the time, if you got the funding to eradicate some of the things. I got a situation right now that I’m going to need some money to eradicate that with. How much I don’t quite know yet, but I know it’s more than one thousand dollars. I know that. Hopefully, I will be able to do it in a process. That it won’t be overbearing on me to get it done. I very so much hate to, and I say this all the time, I don’t want to do illegal acts. I really don’t. I’ve had enough of things that I’ve done that were not good. I’m not trying to add to the list. I’m not trying to do that. I’m looking forward to the situation working out to where people will be amiable and work with me to the point where I can pay it per month or something of that sort. Other than, having to resort to “I have to get me a sack of that cocaine and start cooking it up, going across town, sitting on a corner and sell some crack.” That’s just too menial, too downtrodden, to me to even put that on my agenda. Hopefully, it’ll work out.

	T:	I wish you well with that. Is there anything else you want to add to our interview?



Any subjects or stories that we haven’t touched?



	J:	I think we’ve had a lot. We got a lot of meat. My conclusion would be stand on a platform with people of the world being as one. I stand on that. We find love in our hearts for each other. That we start to care about each other as human beings first. You know we kind of got away to some people that got the dollar





glitter in their eye. Use that continuity of thinking about you in that fashion. Well, hopefully, society will come to a better conclusion as we get down to 2075, 2080. People won’t be at each other. We will have a much more neutral platform of people by that time. Like I said, I know I’m not gone be around to see some dramatic changes Hopefully, my baby son will be a part of that trend down in that area where people be more human towards each other and have that love for one another that we should have today. With that, I thank you.

	T:	Thank you Rafe. I think that’s a great place to end. Thank you for all your time. J:	Yes. Yes. Yes.

[End of Interview]



Transcribed by:





Kelly Richardson





July 22, 2019

Audit-edited by:

Sandra Romero

July 23, 2019

Final-edited by:

Sandra Romero

May 19, 2020