AAHP 128; Golden and Golden; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 128 Alicia Golden and Maria Golden African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Anna Brodrecht on September 3, 2010 17 minutes | 10 pages



Abstract: This interview was conducted at the 2010 Black Alumni Weekend at the University of Florida. Maria Golden, graduate of UF College of Nursing in 1985, and her daughter Alicia, who graduated in 2008, interview each other after some coordination by Anna Brodrecht. They discuss Maria’s husband (Alicia’s father), why they each chose to attend UF, and some of their experiences while attending, from parties, to dining options, to recreation. Through the conversation, they compare and contrast the generational and circumstantial differences.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]



















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 128

Interviewee: Alicia Golden and Maria Golden

Interviewer: Alicia Golden, Maria Golden, and Anna Brodrecht Date: September 3, 2010



	B:	I’ll start us off and I’ll just say can you please introduce yourselves?



	MG:	I’m Maria Golden and I graduated UF in [19]85 from the College of Nursing. B:	Do you want to introduce yourself?

	AG:	Alicia Golden, I graduated summer of 2008.



	B:	My name is Anna Brodecht. I’m here introducing these two lovely ladies today.



They’re going to interview each other about their experiences. Mrs. Golden is the mother of Ms. Golden here. I will now exit the conversation and allow these two ladies to just talk about their experiences at UF

	MG:	Thanks. Where were you born and where did you grow up, Alicia?



	AG:	I was born in Miami, Florida, and I grew up in Pembroke Pines, Florida.



	MG:	I was born in San Francisco, California, and I grew up in Jamaica and in Miami.



	AG:	You have three kids: myself, my sister who is a student here who is about to 24 on October 24, and a son Daniel who’s 23?

	MG:	22—



	AG:	Turning 23.



	MG:	23 and 24. What do your parents do for a living?



	AG:	My mom’s a registered nurse and my dad is a police officer. My daddy’s a police officer in South Florida.

	MG:	What did he do when he was here? What college did he graduate from and what experiences do you know about your father? Is he a Gator too?

	AG:	My father is a Gator. He played for the football team. He graduated from the College of Journalism.





	MG:	Great. Did you always plan on going to college?



	AG:	I did. I always wanted to go to the University of Florida because both of my parents came here so it’s kind of a legacy.

	MG:	Beautiful. Awesome. Go Gators.



	AG:	[Laughter] Mom. Coming to UF, what years did you attend UF, mom? MG:	I attended 1979 to 1985.

	AG:	What did you know about UF before you came?



	MG:	I knew that it was the best academic university in the state of Florida. The most prominent and “prestigious.” I knew that was where I wanted to go.

	AG:	Were you interested in any other schools?



	MG:	Yes, I got accepted at University of Miami, University of South Florida, University of—can’t remember, there was four of them—oh, FIU. I only applied to colleges in Florida.

	AG:	What were your first impressions of UF?



	MG:	My first impression of UF and Gainesville was that there were not very many of us.

	AG:	Black people?



	MG:	Right. There weren’t very many students of color or ethnic origins. I felt a little bit isolated. It took a while to network with other students of color. I noticed it was very cliquish. You have the sororities, the fraternities, and all the nice activities were predominantly for the Caucasian students. Back when I was in school, [19]79-[19]85, we had to make our own fun. We didn’t have nice frat houses.

Every time we would have parties they would get shut down.





AG: Well I had similar experiences like that. MG:  Is that true?

AG:  I did.



MG:  Tell me about them, for instance.



	AG:	I don’t know, the racial environment is still a little separate here. Even like a couple years ago, but it was a lot more inclusive I’m sure than it was twenty something years ago. But our parties would get shut down too and it was just like, a lot more security around us.

	MG:	Right. Anytime you had a congregation of young Black students there was always a large police presence and they would always shut the party down. I didn’t think it was fair. We weren’t doing anything wrong. They would have the same students that were Caucasian and they would be drinking beer and acting a fool, and they wouldn’t shut their parties down. I never understood that to this day. But hey, I made it through.

AG: Even though the numbers of African Americans and other minority students increased, they would still kind of keep to themselves, in a sense. Their own groups.

MG:  Self-segregating, birds of a feather maybe.



	AG:	Or even if you were in a sorority. Sororities stick together, Greeks stick together, and stuff like that.

	MG:	It’s more understanding the experience than it is being prejudice. I think it’s more just like-minded, like-upbringings, but it’s changing nowadays.

	AG:	It could be worse, but it could be better.





	MG:	It could be better.



	AG:	Necessities. Where did you live your first year?



	MG:	First year I lived in Graham Hall in the dorm, in one of the older dorms. I had a roommate, and it wasn’t very pleasant.

	AG:	Did you have central AC? MG:	No.

	AG:	I lived in Buckman Hall, and we still didn’t have central AC in 2004. [Laughter] But it wasn’t that bad. There’s a lot of history in there.

	MG:	Oh my goodness.



	AG:	Who did you live with? Someone you knew or did you do roommate match?



	MG:	I didn’t know her at all and we didn’t click at all. It just wasn’t my cup of tea. So I asked for a single room and I got it. We were bucking.

	AG:	How did you pay for school and living expenses?



	MG:	I got Pell Grants and Florida Student Assistance Grants. AG:	Did they have Bright Futures?

	MG:	They didn’t have Bright Futures back then in [19]79 and [19]80. Nope. AG:	I had Bright Futures. I paid for mine with scholarships and grants as well. MG:	You did honey? That’s wonderful. Did your parents help you at all?

	AG:	Lots.



	MG:	Lots.



	AG:	Did your parents help you?





	MG:	You know what, my parents did help me. They really did. I tried to really be frugal, so I appreciated it and they knew that. When I got sick I used to go to the infirmary. What did you do when you got sick?

	AG:	Infirmary.



	MG:	Wow. That didn’t change. AG:	What did you eat?

	MG:	Lot of salad with tuna. All during the week hardly anything, maybe a sandwich, peanut butter, jelly. Didn’t know how to cook and hardly ate. And that’s how I stayed so slim in college. We didn’t eat. We danced all weekend and didn’t eat during the week. It was a big deal to go to Wendy’s once a week or on the weekends with my boyfriend. Or to go get chicken, but that was only once a week.

	AG:	I ate lots while I was in school. [Laughing] The funds were running fluidly.



MG: That is just not fair. I didn’t know what it was like to go to fancy restaurants like you did at your age. We just didn’t, never. It was always a big deal to go out to eat.

AG: We were eating, for fun. MG: I know.

	AG:	On campus when I was a young tator tot freshman. We used to go to Gator Nights and stuff. Every Friday night they would host this big party in the Reitz Union. They showed movies, and they had popcorn and they had midnight breakfast and you could meet all the new people. It was a good social ice breaker, a campus thing for us to do. Off campus we would go to clubs and





parties or the movies or out to eat or Lake Wauberg. I only went to Lake Wauberg one time after I graduated actually, but it’s a really cool place to go.

	MG:	You hang out and get on the boats? AG:	Yeah I wish I would’ve went more.

	MG:	We did that. They had a lot of frat parties when I was coming up, in school. They would always have them in the apartment complexes.

	AG:	Parties?



	MG:	Yeah, they’d have them in the guest house. There was always parties, every weekend. There was always step shows, just a bunch of stuff to do. I studied hard. I limited my party to one day a week. One day out of the weekend, either Friday or Saturday, I would choose one. And then we’d study. That’s how I got through it.

	AG:	Where’d you get your hair done, your afro?



	MG:	That was a disaster. Very rarely did I get my hair done, and if I did I went to J.C. Penney’s.

	AG:	Oh, I went there a couple of times. They’re okay. I went to this man Mr. K as well who was a pervert, and always making sexual comments.

	MG:	Oh my goodness, we won’t even talk about those!



	AG:	He was a ridiculous man. Or I would wait to go home to South Florida, where people knew how to do hair at a reasonable price, and mommy paid for it.

	MG:	Absolutely.



	AG:	When I was here I got my news from the Alligator. Which is a little newspaper that’s not affiliated with the university but it’s been available at the university for





years. As well as the internet because technology was upgraded when I was at school, so we used the internet for news and also publications that were circulated around the university.

	MG:	You were way ahead, as far as technology, way ahead of when I was here. We had the publication, the Alligator. We had no computers. We basically would catch up with news on the local TV news program in the evenings.

	AG:	You had a typewriter? [Laughing] MG:	You have jokes.

	AG:	Who was your mentor? Did you have a mentor? Who did you feel most comfortable talking to?

	MG:	I really didn’t have a mentor. I should say that I had one instructor in nursing school that was very compassionate, very kind. I wish I could remember her name. Out of all the instructors, if it wasn’t for her, I don’t think I would have wanted to continue in the program. The College of Nursing back in the [19]80s, [19]82, [19]83, [19]84, and [19]85 just was not supportive. I was one of four or three Black students in that college. I just don’t have fond memories of the College of Nursing. I studied hard and I graduated and I got through and passed my boards on the first try.

AG:  I don’t recall a particular mentor except my advisors and stuff. Coming in through the AIM program at UF in 2004, they set up a big community of mentors already. Whether it was faculty or students, we always had somebody we could talk to for support academically, emotionally, or whatever being new students. Dr. Peterson is somebody that sticks out in my mind that I went to to edit papers for me or ask





for advice about campus related things. I also signed up to get a mentor when I was a freshman. A student mentor, her name was Danicia, and that lasted for a little while. They have a lot of organizations for mentorship. I was not involved in any Greek organizations or leadership organizations or sports because I was lazy and disinterested. My major was Health Education and I changed majors quite a few times, no, only like two times. I still don’t know what I want to do.

	MG:	Something, that you had all these advisors and support system to you.



	AG:	You’re just confused, ‘cause you’re young and dumb. There was a few other Black people in my department. Yeah student-wise there was a lot of Blacks. My major was Health Education in the College of Health and Human Performance, the numbers were strong. Faculty-wise, I had a couple Black professors. One Asian one who was awesome for my Drug Addict class, he was genius. My friends were a lot of people that I met here and got real close to. I’ve known them for years. They’re still the same people that I talk to. Everybody’s not your friend. Usually I met them through other people, social environments, and sometimes classes. Where did you go and what did you do for fun? Did you go to Gator Growl, Homecoming, Games?

	MG:	Well, my first two years I had too much fun because I flunked a class and had to retake it.

	AG:	I’ve never got an F before.



	MG:	Lovely. [Laughter] She has jokes. You know if you’re not careful you will flunk out your junior or freshman year. It was my first taste of freedom away from home. I had a group of friends and I dated a football player. I was always around the





ballers at Yon Hall or just hanging out with the players who loved alcohol and kush.

	AG:	Oh my gosh, mom! MG:	But not anymore.

	AG:	The players were alcoholics when I was here, too. Football players are alcoholics and they’re mean.

	MG:	They had a lot of pressure on them. The football team is like the meat of the university. We’re about to wrap it up. Church?

	AG:	I went to Abiding Faith Christian Center most of the time that I was here the days that I went to church.

	MG:	I prayed in my head every day but I very rarely made it to church.



	AG:	I didn’t really engage with the local Black community. I felt pretty welcomed here.



	I experienced more racism than I did at home. U1:	You did engage with the local Black community.

	AG:	Who? How? At the club? Girl please, except in church. Okay yes, I did engage at the club there was lots of engagement with others of my color. I went home on the weekends quite a bit or I went to Orlando to see my best friend. I didn’t watch TV my first year because I had no TV, but I had a laptop. So what is it like to come back to UF and how has the campus changed?

	MG:	We’ll I’ve been back many times because I have two lovely daughters who have, one has graduated and one is gonna graduate the end of this fall. It’s interesting to see the changes and how Gainesville has evolved. It’s more accepting and less prejudiced. What else?





	AG:	Are you proud to be a Gator?



	MG:	It’s great to be a Florida Gator. Go Gators. I’ve always been proud. That’s one thing that I can say for sure that I’m proud that I graduated from the University of Florida. It wasn’t easy. Are you proud to be a Gator?

	AG:	Yeah.



	MG:	Say it.



	AG:	Orange and blue, I bleed it. I live in New York now, I’m over it. MG:	Thank you very much for this opportunity.

	AG:	It’s been real. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Andre Everette



	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, October 16, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019