AAHP 385A; James; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 385A William James African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Justin Dunnavant, Rosemary Florence, Mary C. Williams, Ryan Morini on July 27, 2015

1 hour, 23 minutes | 38 pages













































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 385A

Interviewee: William James

Interviewer: Justin Dunnavant, Rosemary Florence, Mary C. Williams, Ryan Morini Date: July 27, 2015



	M:	This is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. It is July 27th—it



is the 27th, right?



	W:	Yes.



	M:	Yes, that is. 2015—just making sure. Makes it easier to look at these things later.



And we are here in Ocala, Florida, doing what may not be a formal interview in the end, but with—so, your name is Mr. William James?

	J:	Right.



	M:	Yes. As well as:



	D:	Justin Dunnavant.



	F:	Aldjenatu Rosemary Florence. W:	Mary Williams.

	M:	And so, we’re sitting here in the—oh, sorry.



	W:	Excuse me. She’s telling me that I should say: Mary Caroline Williams. [Laughter] Is that right?

	J:	That’s right.



	W:	Mary Caroline.



	M:	[Laughter] Important addition. And we’re sitting here in the Howard Academy Community Center, that was Howard Academy previously, and Howard Elementary. So, yeah. So, well, we have a more formal process for more formal interviews, but when did you start teaching here?

	J:	I was a custodian.



	M:	Okay.





	F:	So, you want to describe what you were saying, how you came in the mornings and got things started?

	J:	Yeah, I was a custodian here, and the only custodian in those days, in elementary and also high school. And I had to come down in the wintertime to start fires in nineteen classrooms in order to heat the school up before the children got here. So, I had to come early in the morning and make those in wood heaters. They’d have wood and all sitting by the heater, and the next morning alls I had to do was put some kindling in there and start it up, and go to the next room. That was my first job during the wintertime. And then after that, I would go ahead and pick up trash on the yard, and check the area, see if any break-ins was—the school or anything had happened overnight. And whenever the principal came, and school took in, I did yard work, wash windows, trim hedges; did whatever I was required to do during that day. And, I was doing that for seventy-five dollars a month. But I was getting paid for it. And after I worked for a while, then I finally asked the county for a raise, and they said they couldn’t give me a raise, but if I knew a student on the campus that I had confidence in that would help me, they would pay him fifteen dollars a month to help me. So, I knew a lot of the students here, and I got a young man, James Starke. He was a man that I had confidence in, and he worked here for the fifteen dollars a month. And after I worked for quite a while—

	F:	Who was your first principal that you worked under here?



	J:	I can’t remember. Mr. Hartfield was one of them. I can’t think of the first one. Mr.



Hartfield was one, and Mr. Dane Bose was the last one that I had. And I quit





working on account of Mr. Bose said I was too clean to be a janitor. At that time, they called people “janitors”; they didn’t call them “custodian” like they’re properly named now. I came in that door right across there from trimming hedges. They used to grow along the side of this building. And Miss Minnie Lamb was the secretary here, and she taught business, typing, and whatever. She and Mr.

Bose was in the office, and I came through to there, out there to get a drink of water. And that was during the summer; wasn’t no school then. So, he told me, he said, “Mr. James, you’re too clean to be a janitor!” So I said, “Mr. Bose, what do you mean ‘I’m too clean to be a janitor?’” He said, “Look at your clothes and look at mine; you clean as me!” And I said, “Mr. Bose, my mother raised four of us. And we weren’t allowed to shoot marbles on the ground. We weren’t allowed to put our hands on our clothes. Because during that time, of course, we didn’t have no clothes money, so we had to use what we had. And Momma raised that that sort. Furthermore,” I said, “Mr. Bose, I don’t work with my clothes. I work with my hands. So my clothes ain’t got no business being dirty. My hands the ones that get dirty. All the work I do, I don’t let nothing touch my clothes. I don’t let nothing touch my clothes. I don’t go sit down on nothing, I don’t go lean up on nothing that’s going to take effect on my clothes. That’s automatic. That’s the way Momma raised us. If you think I’m too clean, I’ll quit!” And he said, “Well, I don’t mean to tell you to quit!” And I said, “Well, I’m’a quit.” And I had a string of keys on my side, and he was sitting to his desk, and about like nearly a table length from me, and I took the keys and threw them on the desk in order to hit him. [Laughter] And they right off the edge, right on his lap. I walked out and I





quit. And then I went out on that job with the [inaudible 6:04], and then, in 1964, my mother was working downtown to the hospital, and she was living downtown and renting—well, a teacher was renting, and then the teacher told Momma to tell me I ought to try to get back in the school system. The county was, Mr. Bose had gone. Before he died, he was on the street begging for money to buy cigars. And I gave him many dollars to buy cigars. But he was not here, so I went and put in an application for a job with the school system. And before I got back home that afternoon, they had called me. And the boss called me, his name was Dudley. And he called me and told me he didn’t have a custodian job for me, but I could work part-time. And I went to working part-time, cleaning up around the office and—. They had problems during that rec room building, and I was driving then, and I could—if they caught way out in the country in need of something, and I could take it to them instead of them coming getting it. And haul something, make a delivery, and I did that for a while. And finally got a job here, at the school. It was a county school then. But I had put in a request for a job at Fessenden, which is right near where I live. And they say, “Well, you work here until you get an opening and we’ll send you out there.” So I worked here as a custodian then. I worked as a maintenance man for about a year, I guess, when I got a custodian job. And then I was custodian here, and then they transferred me when they got an opening at Fessenden. And I started working there as a custodian. And the man that was their head custodian to the school, they had high school students. And they had middle school. They had a lead a person, they got a little more money to see that the school was clean and locked up. The





head custodian was doing the same thing, but he had about five people working in the school where he would be the head. So I went to the head custodian there. And then, after that, I was there for, in 19—when they integrated, I was working at Fessenden as a head custodian. And my boss man told me, he said that I was personable, I was friendly, with all the students and everything, and he said, “I’m going to transfer you to North Marion High, because the students from here going to go there, and they aren’t going to know nobody over there. With them knowing you, and your relation with them, I would like send you over there so if they have a problem, have trouble there, to see somebody they can talk to.” So they moved me to North Marion High School. And I was head custodian there for a while. And then, later, they had supervisors that were over me. They would go out to the school and see how the school was clean, and they would hire people and interview people for that. They had substitutes. They had people that, when somebody out sick, they had certified, qualified to do the training and then they could send them to the school when somebody couldn’t come to work. And then, after a few years of that, they made me a supervisor. And I spent my last seventeen and a half years as a custodian supervisor. I had half the county, and there was another fellow had the other—I had the north half, and he had the south half. He lived south, and I lived north. So I had every school between Fort McCoy on 40, Highway 40, all the way out to East Marion, down to Forest, all the way out to Fellowship, out in the school way out there. I had eight schools to start with. It was four supervisors, and I had eight schools to start with first. And then, after a different superintendent came in, they cut the—the principal was over the





day crew and the night crew, when it started. When they got supervisor, the principal only had the day person. The day person would work five hours for me and three hours for the principal. He fixing to tell him nobody do nothing at night. And they had to see me and I’ll tell them what to do. And that went on and on.

And after five years, when we had the [inaudible 11:45] supervisor, the eldest supervisor wasn’t like me. Well, I guess I was raised up in the church. When I was nineteen years old, at Mt. Tabor Methodist Church, they made me the secretary of the church, a steward, and a class deacon. When I was nineteen years old. I kept the secretary position for twenty-five years. And after twenty-five years secretary, I went to the school. I led the Sunday school in church one thousand, eight hundred fifteen Sundays without missing a Sunday.

	F:	Wow. And you still remember that number!



	J:	And the man, a lawyer figured that up when he asked me, he was doing some work for me and he asked me about the church records. And I told him, I said, “Well, I’ve been working at that school and going to the church out there.” I said, “I haven’t missed a Sunday from going to church, I attended seventy years.” And he said, “Wait a minute! Nobody living today got kind of record like that!” [Laughter]

	F:	That’s right!



	J:	I was at the church out there where I go, two thousand, two hundred forty-nine Sundays without missing a Sunday.

	F:	That’s phenomenal. W:	Yeah—





	J:	And I haven’t missed four Sundays since then. I go to church every Sunday.



Sunday school. Bible study Wednesday night. But my relationship with the Lord caused me to be able to have knowledge in how to treat people as a employee manager. So after five years in school; the other people had fired people and hired people, and they had to call their supervisor in to talk with the people or whatever. And after five years, I had the same people. So he told me one day, he said, “Mr. James, before you leave this morning, come by the office.” We worked split shifts after he got to be supervisor, because we go to work in the morning, get the schools all started, and then we quit, and then go back in the afternoon, because we had to work there down to eleven o’clock at night. So, we couldn’t work all the—so I told him, “Okay.” And I wondered, “What happen to me now?” So, I waited. Got through working, and before I left I went to his office. He said, “Mr. James, the reason why I called you to come in here, I want to know how you supervise your people.” And that shocked me. I told him, “Mr. Judd, I may not be the supervisor. Number one, I came here to ask you for a job. Number two, you gave me a job and you directed and asked me to do whatever I done. Number three, the way I supervise, I grew up in church. And Bible say ‘Do unto others as you would have them to do unto you.’” I said, “That’s how I supervise.” He said, “That’s the truth. That’s why you haven’t fired nobody, and the other people was firing and hiring. And I just wanted to know. When I asked people all over the county if they had a choice for supervisor, who would you rather have? They said, ‘Mr. James.’” I get messed up when I start talking like that. But, anyway, I fired one man. And he was my cousin. And after about nine or ten months, I hired





him back, and he worked on until he retired. But I let him know that we were relationship as cousin, but on the job we were friends and workers together. He had to do like everybody else. He just thought maybe he could—you know how that is. Some people think they can get by with nothing, but I told him, “No, you can’t get by with nothing, you got to follow the rules. And I don’t have no picked people.” So after he learned that, and I hired him back, and nobody had no trouble out of him since then. But any—

	F:	That’s an incredible record.



	J:	I had a hernia on the job, and I had to have surgery. I don’t remember the year it was now. But anyway, I was off twenty-six days. Vacation time, you could use your vacation—you had to use it. If you could have it a hundred and forty hours in at the end of the year. But I was a hunter, I was a bird hunter for years, and I trained bird dogs. During my off time, I would do that, and people hired me to train dogs for them, hired me to go out and handle dogs for them. White folks.

So, I would take vacations, but when I decided to retire, my supervisor—my boss—retired in [19]85. And I said, I’m going to work another year to see how the system worked after—he was a Christian man. And I said, “I’m going work another year. I can retire the same as he.” Because our age was like that. So, I worked another year to see what the difference was, and it was a lot of difference. But anyway, I saved. When I got ready to retire, I stopped taking vacation. And so, when I retired, they owed me four thousand, four hundred and some dollars for vacation time. They owed me twenty-five and eight hundred and some dollars for sick time. And I drew that in the first week in [19]87. I got that,





and I bought an [19]86 Blazer. I said, “I’m buy something that I can use,” because I did a lot of hunting, and I bought a four-wheel drive so that I could use the car. I had a Jeep before, and I could use it to go out in the woods and everything. That was my life about that. And I still have that [19]86 Blazer now, and I’ve got it up for sale now. [Laughter] Of course, I got four vehicles, and I don’t need four vehicles. So right there—I’m driving a pickup truck now, and I use it to pick up hay. I’m ninety-four years old, and I still work out there on a twenty- four acre farm. I got cows, I had horses—but I sold all my horses two years ago now. Because I didn’t, you know, nothing to pull me down or cause me to fall or nothing like that on the farm. So I just got a few cows now. And I pick up hay from Midwest Hay out here on 27th Street. Whenever they have a truck come in and have busted bales of hay that, they clean out the truck, well I take all that, pick it up. There was a time that a lot of people go pick it up in the wintertime for the cows, because they gave it away. And as soon as the fall, winter came, it was over, and they got grass, and they stopped picking it up. But I never stopped. I just kept picking it up. So now, nobody can’t get it but me. “For years, nobody did this. You the only one who did, so we don’t allow nobody to get it but you.” So I go out there once or twice a week, and pick up if there’s any, and if they don’t have any, that’s okay. But sometimes they call me in to come when they got something to pick that they want to get unloaded. Call me in, so I have to take the truck. And I go, I got a pitchfork on the truck, and I got two pitchfork on the truck; I use the one and get somebodys to use the other one. And my health has been good all these years. I take pills every morning. My knee, had a





problem with that, and arthritis in my right knee. But I still go. And I drive where I need to drive, and I cut my yard, I drive my tractor and cut the field, and mow the grass in the fields, when I get ready to go home, I go home. So that’s where I am now if you need any—you can ask some questions if you want to.

M:   Sure, sure. You grew up in Ocala?



	J:	I live right where I was born. Six miles from here, it was about six miles from here, straight up 441. You know where 326 is?

	F:	Pass it on the way to Gainesville, right? J:	Right.

	F:	Go ahead and tell them where it is. J:	You know where 326 is?

	M:	Mmhm.



	J:	And the shopping center over there? You got a Dollar General store, [inaudible 22:04], Winn-Dixie. Well, that Dollar General store, my fields is right across the street from the Dollar General store. There’s twenty-four acres there. I own thirteen acres, and two houses. The house I born in still there, keep it up. Like places down there, they just a junk house now. Whatever I get down here at this house now, it’s a three-bedroom house. And one bathroom. I had that built for my Momma in [19]69. So, when she passed away, I moved in it—a little before she passed away, so she got what she needed. And the house that I live in, born in, I keep it up. Electricity in there, and I brought a lot of junk in there, and I can’t find a place to put it in this house, I put it in that house. [Laughter]

	F:	Yeah, like a museum!





	J:	Yep. And just over there until I find somebody need it, and I give it away. I got some stuff in there, belong to somebody else, but they didn’t nowhere to put it, and [inaudible 23:15]. That’s in my—I’m, I don’t watch television in the day. And I never, like I said, I don’t sit down in the house, I’m too active, and so I don’t have time with that television. I’ve been at it a long time. I’ve got a television in the living room, I’ve got one in the bedroom. The one in the living room is on Channel 27, and I look at the ten o’clock news on it before I go to bed. Then I look at Steve Harvey every night. [Laughter] And forty after ten, I stop looking at the news, and then most of the time I go to bed. And that TV don’t come on no more until seven o’clock in the afternoon. It plays ‘til about forty after ten, in there. And the one in the bedroom, I turned it on five o’clock in the morning, and it stays on until six o’clock, I cut it off. I sleep with the Bible in the bed, and I read the Bible after I look at the news. After that I pray, and then after that I get up. That television don’t come on around until it’s five o’clock the next morning. So, I be home a lot of time, but I don’t look at television. I just look at the paper, and read the paper. And then, I’m very active. I be gone most of the time. I’m riding all the time, going to different meetings, whatever.

	F:	Where’d you go to school, Mr. James?



	J:	I went to Marion County school out at Kendrick there off of the old [inaudible 25:09] school where the bus could drive you in now. I only went to the eighth grade in school. The eighth grade, and I went to work on a farm where the shopping center is now. And I had to work there for fifty cents a day and a meal. And I worked there about two years or more. The man got—he was older, and he





stopped farming, and I went working on another farm. For seventy-five cents a day. Then later, a dollar a day. I have lived a pretty good life; I’ve tried to. And I try to treat everybody right. When they made 326, the state highway, when they first made it, they put it right on and slapped it right on [inaudible 26:18] highway. Between one highway and next to Mt. Bland. And there, about every filling station in town wanted to buy my corner of land to put a filling station in. Well, I told them—my mother was living there, and I told Momma, I said, “Momma, you want to sell that piece of property there, and you’ll have money to live with?” She said, “No, I don’t need that for us. I don’t need it.” My mother went to work for the Black hospital here in Ocala. Munroe had a Black hospital for Black people.

Momma would work for all kinds of work before she got there, and she went there as a maid. My mother was a Christian lady, and a keen lady. That’s how I got mine from. Her supervisor talking about her one day, said, “Know that your momma working, and around the place, and running with the people.” Momma said lady told the supervisor, told her, said, “Mary, you are so kind and so clean, and nice to the patients, you ought to be a nurse!” Momma said, “Nurse?” Well, Momma said, “Well I didn’t have education enough to be a nurse!” I think Momma just went to ninth grade in school, something like that. But my mother born and raised in Georgia. So, she said, “You want to be a nurse, you can work right here as a maid, and we’ll teach you to be a nurse.” And I guess it’s the Lord did it, she said, “the Lord’ work.” And Momma start working there, and they start training her to be a nurse, because she was so kind and so clean. And Momma





worked there seventeen and a half years, and when she retired, she was a licensed nurse. Worked in that hospital right over there [inaudible 28:47].

	F:	And what was her name? J:	Mary James.

	F:	Mary James.



	J:	Yeah. She knew her mother. Her mother and Momma just [inaudible 29:00] everything in town.

	W:	Where was that hospital located?



	J:	I can’t tell exactly now where it was, but it’s somewhere along in there where IHOPs is, and I think it was on the other side of the highway. In that area. A little before you got to the other hospital. It wasn’t very far from the other hospital.

People just like walked from the one hospital to the other. That’s where it was, as far as I can remember. But Momma was working there, and said, “The Lord blessed me as an eighth grade student to be what I was.” And then, when I was supervisor, all the schools had a budget. And the largest budget that I had with one school was Vanguard, and they had like fifty-some thousand dollars a year for custodian work there. And I had to be the one that write the order and sign for everything, you know, at all those different schools. I had secretary, and I would, whatever they needed, I’d go around and check that out school and see what they needed, the equipment, parts, paper towels, toilet paper, and everything that they needed was custodians’ responsibility. So I had to do all of that. The Lord is in power, and he said seek ye first the Kingdom in all things He has. But that’s the best part of my life. And I have a, the school wrote a program up on me. I





have that. They wrote a book on me when I was working here. And I was in Style



magazine in June last year.



	F:	What?



	W:	Hey!



	F:	I must have missed that!



	J:	[Laughter] Yeah. I got to go back out there, I’m going back out the car, because I have books at the house. That’s where I got pictures and [inaudible 31:14]. Got pictures now?

	F:	When I came in, I came running up: “Where are the pictures?” W:	Oh, oh—along the—

	J:	I don’t know if it’s over there or not, but it’s in the hallway. W:	It’s in the hall. Mmhm.

	J:	In the hallway.



	F:	We’ll take a look at that.



	J:	And, but I have copies of everything. And I might have one in my truck, I don’t know. They’re mostly all in my car, [inaudible 31:39] in it.

	F:	All right, now! And you were given an award for the Black— J:	First history.

	F:	Your husband had one too, didn’t he? [to MW] J:	Yeah, he had one.

	W:	Okay.



	J:	One of the first Black chief of police.



	F:	Black Achievers in Marion County, something like that?





	W:	Yes, that—from here. From, well, when—



	F:	So they have—have you seen that here? The list of recipients? Because they have it. They’ve had it for quite a few years. He was the recipient along with her husband one year, maybe two years ago.

	J:	And Ms. Miller. Ms. Miller. W:	Ms. Miller.

	F:	And Ms. Miller was a recipient. And we have paperwork on that. J:	Yes. They had ten of us here.

	W:	I believe—



	F:	[Inaudible 32:32].



	W:	[Laughter] You know what? I’m going to, that’s going to be, that’s my task. I’m going to assume that as a task, because I vaguely remember that they were—it has to be here.

	F:	It has to be here!



	W:	I don’t know how I missed it, walking up and down. F:	Missed it, it may not be up yet. Oh, it’s up. Okay.

	W:	I’m going to find it. It may be on the end, but we were on the other end. J:	I don’t know whether this thing is there now.

	F:	This is all these old pictures. W:	I tell you: I will find them.

	J:	Yeah. And later, in the office there, she tell you about them. She the one told me all was down here. Because they had—





	F:	I’m sorry I wasn’t looking out for you. But like I said, I was—they distracted me! [Laughter]

	J:	Well, I didn’t even look for me, I was looking for you.



	F:	[Laughter] See? See? I’m trying to tell you! Now, you also given an award from the NAACP, because you are a lifetime member. You became a member, an active—you remember anything about that? Maybe in the [19]60s?

	J:	A little bit. Now, that was another achievement that I had. Two years ago, Sheriff Dean got to be sheriff here. We had, there was a fellow had, was arrested, and NAACP went and thought they could put a complaint in with the NAACP. And Whitfield Jenkins or L.C. Stephenson was the president. And Whitfield Jenkins, L.C., and myself went to the sheriff to interview when they put in a complaint.

Then they bring it to us, and then we take it, and decide what we going to do. Then, when we go to find out what happened, with whoever involved, and we put in a order to talk to Sheriff Dean about this complaint that the police had written up on the man. And we went to him when we had an appointment, and we went to him and talked to him about it, and he had the complaint, what the man had said, we wrote up. And what the man said. So we talked to him about that, and we thought it was, it need to be interviewed again. Because we didn’t think—the man put a dog on a young boy, that, didn’t think it was necessary for the man to put the dog on the boy, after the boy—. And reason how it was, the boy had loud music down the street somewhere in Ocala there, and they met. And the cop, they met, and so the man, the boy recognize the cop when he pass him, and the man heard all the noise, and he went and turned around. And the boy saw him





turn around, and he went, parked his car to somebody’ house, and went down by, and rang the doorbell. And the person, by the time the person got there, the officer was there waiting on him to come out. And called him. And the lady came to the door, and the law was calling the boy, so the boy didn’t get a chance to say nothing to the lady. And he went. So the man told him, asked him for a driving license. Asked him did he have a gun. He said, no, he didn’t have a gun. He said, “But I have some brass knuckles. I got some brass knuckles in my pocket there. If you’ll allow me to, I’ll go put them in the car.” So the man said okay. And he went and put the brass knuckles in the car. And then he, person said, “Well, reason why I stopped you, because all that loud music you were playing down there.” And the boy said, “Yes sir. Well, I’ll cut it off. And if you’ll allow me, I’ll go under the hood, I’ll disconnect it.” So the man told him, “Okay.” He give him all this privilege, and then tell you the driver’s license had expired or something was wrong with his license. So he told him, said, “Your license is not up to date, either, so I’m going have to take you to jail.” And the boy had asked all these questions, and the cop had been so nice to him, and it was a deputy sheriff. And he said, “Oh!” And he tried to plead for him not to have to do all that, because he was in trouble with his mom and everything else. And the boy was trying to plead him, and the man started to put the handcuffs on the boy, backing up and pleading, trying to get, talk him out of it. And the man went to, he had a dog in the car. He went there, and took the dog. Dog bit the boy, and then they had to carry him to the hospital and all. So, that report wasn’t settled; the NAACP didn’t think that was right. He done let the boy went to—he could have been going to get a





gun as far as he know. He just let him do all of this here, and then put a dog on him because the boy backing up and resisting. So we headed to Sheriff Dean, and he had two of his members there, and they thought, had to view that, so they told us, “Well, I think it need to be looked into, too.” So then, he told us, deputy said, “Y’all need to look into that, and check that out.” So, they didn’t know, you know, you up there, you don’t know what it is but the portion that you turn in. And then know what the [inaudible 38:57]. But he said, “Okay.” And so, the president of NAACP told him, said, “Well, now, this boy’ mother know that we was meeting with you today, and this afternoon”—she was a teacher—“she want to know what did we accomplish. So we need the note, something, to tell—and to the sheriff, asked him, said, “Well, how long it take y’all to investigate that, and so you can have an answer by tonight?” So they told us, “Well, we’ll get it, and we can have some information. Give us”—they asked for a number so they could contact them, tell whether or not they made a decision. So they did. And so, then that man, they took that man from handling dogs. Well, in that meeting—Sheriff Dean had, once a month, he had a meeting, and all the laws and people come in, and Sheriff Dean had five people from the county to be on that meeting. Okay? And that same day, Sheriff said, “Oh, we having a meeting next week. And y’all invited to the meeting, and y’all can tell the whole story to the people.” So, nobody couldn’t go that day. They had doctor appointment, one had another business, so I went. And I, they introduced me as from NAACP to give what happened, and the results and all. And they punished this man by not allowing him to handle canines no more, because he didn’t put the dog on—the way he





said it, “We don’t have the dog just to bite people. We have the dog to help catch people when it’s necessary. But the boy wasn’t running, and you done let him have all this in here, access to his car, and access under the hood, and didn’t know what was going to happen.” But, so anyway, he put me on his advisory board. And I was on his advisory board for a year. Every year, he select five people from the county to be on that board. He say he couldn’t run the county successfully without having some people’ input other than his staff. And each time we meet, he tell us everything that happen, and did they have a record, and I would know of everything—I mean, if arrests were made, how many this, how many chicken eggs a chicken laid on a farm, everything and anything. [Laughter] I got that packet every month for a long time. And he made me an honorary deputy sheriff. And I’d go to jail, I do jail visits. And I can go to the jail, take you all to the jail one time, say, “I want to see So-and-so and So-and-so.” Mmhm. Then you didn’t have to have an ID, didn’t have to know your name or nothing, didn’t have to go through nothing. Anybody with me had access to it. Contact visit—I just called them, “I’m going make a contact visit.” And they said, “With who?” I said, “So-and-so.” “When?” I tell him, he say, “Okay, we’ll have him ready.” And they would go on and go to the place, and “Okay, go on in the room,” and then when they got, “Whenever y’all get through, Mr. James, you’ll come out and you’ll find that officer somewhere around here, and they’ll let y’all all.” And with this sheriff we got now, when he got to be, because I got the badge and everything, and I got ID, I could go jail visit now. And this sheriff, when he got there, I went, told him I want to have appointment with him. I didn’t know him, so I introduced





myself to him, and he saw what I was doing. So he made me deputy sheriff, too. And I got a card in my wallet right now. And his card, and he said, “I’ll put my cell number on it. If you need it, you can call my cell number, you can always get me.”

	F:	Well, I did not know you were a deputy! Of the many roles that you played. J:	I’m an honorary deputy sheriff.

	F:	That’s very good! Mmhm.



	J:	And the wallet, the star, and my picture and everything, and then—I don’t carry it with me, but I got, in my car, in my truck, I got the one I just hang on my neck that identify. That’s what I do.

	F:	Now, you mentioned Mr. L.C. Stephens. He was with the Hunting and Fishing Club. Did you participate with them?

	J:	Mm-mm.



	F:	Okay.



	J:	They went along with that, I was so young then. But I was a other hunter, by myself, me and a man [inaudible 43:55]. Trained dogs out there, bird dogs. I trained bird dogs. Boarded bird dogs. One time, I had twenty-five dogs in my place. Nine big pens. Yeah. But I also was a good hunter. I brought the shells, have twenty-five in it, and I could have twenty birds out of twenty-five shots. I was just that good. And I could, I had five dogs of my own. I could take them five dogs anywhere—across the four lane highway—and wouldn’t have to put no leash on or nothing. Tell them to heel, follow me. And when I stop, they stop. When I go, they go. I wouldn’t tell them but one time to heel. I go out there in the woods,





walking out, I had two dogs over on the hunt, and I call their name and said, “Let’s go,” and said, “So-and-so and So-and, heel.” Put them in the pen. Call their names, they come out when I call their name. If I don’t call their name, they don’t come out. They come out when I call their name. And they just listen for the name, they answer to come. And before I could say something, they just waiting on that name. And I call the name—[Claps]. I could have them in the truck, four in the truck, and I could be here, and they could be out there in the parking lot, I could blow my whistle—when they had a whistle—and I said, “Junior, come here.” Junior get out that truck and come to me. And the others stay in there. And I get through with her, I said, “Okay, go back in the car. Go to the car.” They were better than children. Okay. Whatever questions.

	W:	You know, Mr. James, did you attend the Mass Meetings at Covenant? J:	When?

	W:	In the [19]60s. J:	Mmhm.

	W:	I always thought that you were a member of the Hunting and Fishing Club, and I’ll tell you why: because you would always be there. You were visible, and we all said hello to Mr. James, and I didn’t even know until I was older exactly what the gentlemen were doing. But you were among the men that made sure that everybody got inside.

	J:	Mmhm.



	W:	And was seated. And when you just said that you were not the—you may not have been one of the, you know, a member of that group, the protection arm of





the Movement, but I always thought you were, because you were always there, and you were doing—some of them stayed outside, as you know. And they’d walk around, and they came in and out. But they also made sure that everybody was safely inside, and safely back to their car. And I saw you in that role. I did.

	J:	In those days, we’d have to—when they, that started in there, I was working at that time, when they was doing all that sit-in and everything, I was working to Oldsmobile place out on the north of town. It was owned by Liles, it was Liles Motors, I can’t recall what the boss man’ name. I was working for him on that, cleaning cars, and washing, waxing cars, I worked for him when they started that sit-in or whatever. So, his name was “Gator Lile.” It wasn’t Gator Lile, but they called him Gator Lile because he had been from the school up there. And he was, his daddy was a police patrolman. He was a nasty man. Rode about on motorcycle. He lived right out there in Kendrick, back there. And I knew him after he retired. And I was working down there, and they had a foreman out there to the car lot. And it was three Black people working there, cleaning cars, and they just washing, waxing, and delivering, and whatever. And they had, Liles had his supervisor, the boss man, to have a meeting with the Black. And he said if anybody working there—the three of us—if we took part in the sit-ins, we wouldn’t have a job. So I said, “Well, you count me out, then.” And I quit. But the others stayed there. But I quit. And that’s during the same time I would be around the place there, Covenant, when they had Reverend Pinkston there.

	W:	Yeah! Well, I want to thank you, because I looked at you, I would see the gentlemen. I didn’t really know exactly what it was, but realized as I matured—





but I want to thank you for being there, because it made me comfortable just like the other guys, seeing them around. You were there, you were making sure that everybody got—as I said before—got in and out safely. So even though you weren’t a member, you served the same purpose for people like me. And there were a lot of us who appreciated not having to worry about getting in and out of Covenant. So, thank you.

	F:	And now we know you lost your job! He quit. W:	No, he said—

	F:	You quit your job?



	J:	Yeah, I quit my job because I went out to participate in that sit-in.



	F:	He quit his job at the car place, because the boss told him that he couldn’t do that.

	W:	Oh, oh, okay—that he couldn’t do that.



	F:	That they couldn’t participate. And so, we talked about this the other day. He is a prime example. How could you have made that decision? That was a big decision to make! Because, you could have been, they could have—the police in the boss man’s family could have pulled you over on the side of the road and beat you up any day.

	J:	Mmhm.



	F:	So how were you feeling about making a big decision? J:	I didn’t have no feeling, I just quit. [Laughter]

	F:	Wow.





	J:	I went to, I worked on the job, and there were a lot of things, I don’t know—I never been a mean man. Believe it or not, I’m ninety-four years old, and I never had a fistfight or nothing with a man since elementary school in 1938. Never had a fight. I don’t know why; there fights I could have been in, but it’s always something to get another way out. And I see people today, and I say, “If you knew me, you wouldn’t say what you’re saying to me. You don’t know me. And so, since you don’t know me, I’m not going to bother with you.” And I had a couple people on the job. I had one White guy on the job when I was working at Fessenden as a custodian. I was the only custodian there for the morning, and the others had gone on vacation. We had wood floors, just like this one used to have. And I was out there cleaning the floors one day, and the mechanic came in, a carpenter, wanting to, had a order to fix something in different rooms. He had an order to fix it or get it replaced. And this man didn’t know what room it was, and he came in, and I was down on the floor, the way they have this here, waxed floors. This floor, you can’t—you have to, you put sealant, wax them floors a foot from the wall, and nobody wears it out. And you keep putting it on and putting it on, it can build up. So you had—and the machine couldn’t go up there. So you had to get down on the floor with a rough edge or a scraper to get it up.

And so, I was down there one morning, scraping the floor, and the man came in. He says, “Slim, can you tell me how to find room so-and-so and so-and-so?” And I said, “Yes.” And I got up, and I said, “My name is not Slim. My name is William James. That’s, my momma never nicknamed none of her children. She gave them names, and that was the only thing I’ll be worked by. Just follow by the





name.” And I said, “My name is William James, and not ‘Slim.’” So he said, “All right, I’m sorry, I’m sorry.” And I said, “The room you looking for is such-and- such, you go over there, and you find it down in second grade.” And, a few years back, when I had to be a supervisor, this main man was a supervisor. Boss man wanted, say, “I want to meet all the supervisors such-and-such a time, in such- and-such a place.” And we went there, and we lost a supervisor to be there. And they had drinks and coffee and tea, like you do when you have a meeting. And they was in there before the meeting start, and this man was talking, he said, “I want to tell y’all something.” And everybody listen, he told them how he called me “Slim,” and I got up and told him about it. “Said his name was William James, and that’s been ‘Mr. James’ ever since!” [Laughter] But, another thing I’d like to say is, I haven’t—I never drank. Never smoked. Never cursed. And the [inaudible 54:33], I went to West Virginia with Vera to her niece getting married. And I went up there, and there was several cars there, in back to West Virginia. Lot of people was—it was all they family, you know. They stuck together, and they—I went up there, so Vera carried me up there. She carried me to Virginia, and I met, visit my brother that live in Virginia, then we went to West Virginia for this wedding. And that, the father of that child, they all drank. And every time we had to eat and before the wedding, he went, told me to come go to the liquor store if I didn’t mind. And went there and we got two carts, and he fill them all up with drinks. All kinds of drinks. And after the wedding, they had a big old area there, and everybody playing cards, everybody smoking, everybody having a big time. And I never drank, never smoked. And everybody that knew me was saying, “Mr.





James, So-and-so, you want some? Everything’s all right?” Every once in a while, they refer to me: “Mr. James, So-and-so”—and that went on for, I guess, a half hour or better. And one man said to me, he said, “Willie!” [Claps] He was from Jacksonville. He said, “I got a question.” So he got the floor. He said, “I got a question. That Mr. James over there, I don’t know how come everybody says ‘Mr. James’ to him, and they don’t say ‘Mr.’ nothing to nobody else.” [Laughter] “I want to know why do everybody call him ‘Mr. James’ and ain’t nobody else down here ‘Mr.’” And so, Minnie Green, she was the oldest one of the family, she spoke. And all the McLaughlin that knew me spoke. They said, “Well, I don’t know why we call him Mr. James, and I know why, too. That man has been a man that stood for whatever. Never heard him curse, never see him drink, never see him smoke, and he don’t do nothing and all that like we do, he doesn’t do that. And we honor him as ‘Mr. James,’ and all his brothers and all, we used to hunt together, and go to Sunday school, convene together.” And they all said, “All I know is ‘Mr. James,’ because I used to hunt with him and whatever it is we do over there, but Mr. James never drink, never curse, nothing.” [Laughter] And the man say, “Well okay, Mr. James. I got the message I needed!” [Laughter] Mr.— used to teach school up there at North Marion Middle. And this teacher I went to, she taught Home Economics. And she momma was going to night school, because she had a night class. And she knew that I didn’t never curse. And one day, I went to the school, and the teachers were there, and one White lady came in, and Ms. Jackson—that was her name; Rutledge now, but Ms. Jackson, she the one there at [inaudible 58:00] over there.





	W:	Oh! Mary—Mary Rutledge.



	J:	Mary Rutledge. Mary said—when this lady come in, she came in, and she said, “All right now. I want to introduce you to this Mr. James.” She knew me. “This Mr. James, and he don’t talk that talk that we talk, so you mind your mouth.” And she said, “Oh! What you mean?” She said, “He don’t talk that talk, and say all them words that we say.” And she said, “Okay. Mr. James, you never curse?” I said, “No, I ain’t never had a reason to curse. Our Momma—I talk the way I was raised. I didn’t hear that. A child speak what he hear somebody else or what you tell him to said. And I was raised so I could say what they told me to say, and not what I wanted to said.” And she said, “Mr. James, when you on the farm down there, you have to fix fence?” I said, “Yeah, I fix fence.” “You ever nailed a board on the fence?” “Yeah, I’ve done that.” “You ever hit your finger with the hammer instead of the nail?” I said, “Yeah.” “What do you say when you do that?” I said, “I don’t say nothing. I holler if it hurt, and shake my hand.” [Laughter]

	F:	Still don’t cuss. [Laughter]



	J:	She always remember that time. “Hey, Mr. James, you remember you said you hit in the hand with the hammer, and then you don’t do nothing but shake and holler, huh? That’s all?” Okay, I’m through talking. If you got a question, any quick question, I’ll answer it, but I didn’t intend to take up all this time.

F:  All right. So, we going respect your time, and the next time, you said you have some documents and papers and things that you could bring, and maybe we’ll look at some of the things they have here. These accomplishments.





J:  I’m going to look in the car. I’m going look and see, I might have one in the back seat of the truck. I don’t usually keep them in there, but sometimes—mostly, my car, I have a lot of Style magazines. And—

F:   So, any final questions?



	M:	I mean, I don’t know if they’d be too long or not. I was wondering if there’s anything you could share about remembering Frank Pinkston. Is there anything you remember about him as a person, personally, or—?

	J:	Yes. I remember Frank Pinkston. He was a—you talking about the young Frank Pinkston, right?

	M:	Yes. Yes.



	J:	I remember him when he was doing the sit-ins and walking in. I never did no sit- in much, because I didn’t have transportation living in the country. But whenever they had something special, like Saturdays when I could get into a lot of things, I would go. I remember Reverend Pinkston, he was a man among men. And he had some characteristics kind of like myself, I guess, because all I ever knew was a man that stood for something and was recognized for something. And he, when he had all this meeting and things going on and everything, he was pop right up, spoke up, stood up, for what was right and righteous. And most people with common sense admired him, and worked with him, and did a lot of things like that. Because I been to a lot of the meetings and things, and saw a lot about him, and come to have civil rights. He had a way about him. Yeah.

	M:	Thank you.



	D:	Thank you again for your time, we definitely learned a lot.





J:  Yeah, well, I said a lot, and I have a lot left. I have—lot of people, lot of people know me, and I don’t know how so many people know it, but there were—you take off and go to the jail out there, they all remember me. “Mr. James, here’s So-and-so.” And I still can do that now, today. There were people that worked

there, and the ladies White and Black, they always respected me. And during the summertime, like it is now, my cousin used to run the fruit stand out there on the road, you know, near by [inaudible 1:02:30]. They had boiled peanuts. And I would bring—when I would come to visit, I would bring a bag of boiled peanuts to give the ladies and the men that worked there, White and Black, boiled peanuts. And when they have a holiday like Christmas, and Valentine’s, I bought a plant. Lady told me other day, I bought a plant, poinsettia pot plant, two years ago, and carried it out there for Christmas. I said, “Okay, I ain’t going to bring y’all no candy, because y’all going to be eating up everything, y’all getting fat eating this and eating that.” [Laughter] “I don’t bring you nothing to eat. I done bring you this plant, and y’all can keep it.” And they kept that plant, and the lady told me the other day—Ms. Boyle is who I think it is—she take it to her house, because she know how to keep flowers. She still got that plant to the house right now. And it blooms every year. [Laughter] So they all the time bothered me, because I’m always out there, and I—a good while back, I start, they’d be talking, and I’d be talking to them about this, and they be talking, they always talking, they tell me, they said—one of them told me about it out there one night, say, “Mr. James, you ain’t got no business driving at night! I don’t want you driving at night!” I says, “Why?” He said, “Because it’s too dangerous for you to drive at night.” And I said,





“Well, I put my trust in the Lord. And I can’t stop driving at night. If I stop driving at night, then I’m not trusting the Lord. I trust him twenty-four hours a day. I can’t stop driving at night as long as the Lord let me drive. As long as I got a proper driving license, and a car to drive, I’ll drive it.” My nephew told me one time, too. Said, “Uncle William,” he said—I was up in the eighties I think then, almost in the nineties. He said, “Uncle William, I wish you would stop driving at night.” And I said, “Why?” He said, “Because it’s just kind of dangerous for people your age to be driving out there. Lot of crazy drivers out there at night.” I said, “I’m one of them.” [Laughter] I said, “I put my trust in the Lord. And if I’m driving at night, then I’m trusting the Lord at night. So I can’t just—I have to trust Him all the way. I’m driving day and night. Lord’s going take me, He take me from here. If I’m going to have a accident, He know it before it happen.” So I said, “Whatever comes, let it come. I put my trust in Him.”

	F:	So, you have taken your—you’ve renewed your driver’s license for the next five years, or is it coming up due?

	J:	I think—I don’t know when they’re due. I haven’t had a, I think I have seven years on my license, I think.

	F:	Okay.



	J:	I don’t know when to renew it. F:	You may want to check that! J:	Well, they’d let me know.

	F:	Oh, okay. There’d be something in the mail. [Laughter]





	J:	They be sending it when it was time to get my eyes checked, when my license expire.

	F:	Okay, I’m glad to know that.



	J:	They don’t send it, then I’m going drive. [Laughter] F:	I’m going check your driver’s license! [Laughter]

	D:	[Inaudible 1:06:22], ain’t nothing to worry about, then. [Laughter]



	F:	That’s like [inaudible 1:06:24] with the checks. As long as she got checks, she got money in the bank, she still got checking. That’s her money. We need to check your driver’s license.

	J:	Well okay, I’m going to let you check the license, because I won’t be able to check it!

	F:	I have my glasses, so let’s make sure that we don’t have to get this renewed. W:	2017.

	F:	Good! Good, so you have two more years. That’s excellent! W:	2017.

	F:	Do it have “Safe Driver” written on there? Didn’t have any accidents in about five years, it would—

	W:	Safe driver!



	F:	Woooow! [Laughter] Go handle it, Mr. James! W:	Mr. James!

	J:	I didn’t even know that was on there, because I [inaudible 1:07:10]. If you come to my house, I got twice more plaques on my wall. I got two safe driving pins that I got from the county. Twenty-one years driving safe. I got all kinds of plaques on





my wall. When I retired from the school system, I got a plaque for fifteen schools. Custodians, and all them name is on there. [Inaudible 1:07:43].

	F:	You got a museum at your house.



	J:	I had, I never had no trouble with the driver’s license, or [inaudible 1:07:51]. I think I had one wreck, accident, in my whole life. And I was driving before, and I was driving the school truck then. But I don’t have no problem serving the Lord, the Lord checked me out a couple times, and I was going down in the [inaudible 1:08:18] one day. I wanted the [inaudible 1:08:21], everywhere you go in there is thirty miles an hour. [Laughter] I was going down there, looking at somebody’ house, and I was past a street, and a cop was there waiting to get on that street. And I was doing about forty miles an hour, somewhere like that. And I saw him, but I didn’t know it was thirty miles an hour then, either, because I was newly going out there. And he was waiting to get on that street, so he got on that street and he followed me for a while. And I saw a sign, says—I knew he was following me, so I didn’t get sore, I just kept driving. And I saw a sign that said thirty miles an hour, and I applied my brake. Whoop! Turn his light on. And I pull to the side. He come up there and says, “Let me see your driver’s license. Speeding.” So I gave him my driver’s license. He went back to his car, and he come back and he said—he had identified who he was, and he says, “You were driving over speed limit.” I says, “Yes, I saw it. That’s how come I stopped, slowed down. I saw that sign. I don’t know nothing about this town out here.” And on my mirror, I have a ID, in two of my cars—because when I go to jail, when I want in, I just put it on. And so, he said—and then I said, I said, “I didn’t know.” And he came back, and





give me my—and I said, “I try to follow the law, because you see that there hanging right there?” He said, “Oh! I didn’t see that!” [Laughter] And he said, “Well, that right there [inaudible 1:10:26]” [Laughter]

	F:	All right, Mr. James! [Laughter]



	J:	One time—I’ve only been stopped about four times. Maybe five times. I don’t think I been stopped more than five times. But one time, I was coming up from out on the other side here of cotton, out here where the cotton, and one night I was going down there, dating one of the nurses. And had to go down a lane to get to her house. And Momma told me I had to be home at twelve o’clock. Before twelve o’clock. Was eleven o’clock every night when she’d let me go out. And ask me now: I never hardly—I’m home before eleven o’clock. I go visiting, I go courting, whatever it is, I go home, that’s the time for me to go. Ten-thirty, I got to go! “What do you mean you got to do?” I said, “Momma said when I was growing up to be home at a certain time, and I do that still today!” [Laughter] “You going in the cold, or it’s raining?” I say, “I’m going. Momma’s dead and gone, but that’s what she taught me. It’s still in me.” And I shouldn’t tell you this. [Laughter] I had a lady come to my house to visit me. I stayed by my seven; nobody get near me. Ten o’clock, I said, “Well, it’s about almost time for you to go home.” [Laughter] “What do you mean, time to go?” I started looking at the clock. I said, “You can’t stay here but a certain amount of time, then you’ll go home.” “You mean tell me, I got to go ahead get out of here cold as it is, and go home in the cold?” “You got to get out of here whether you go home or not.” [Laughter] I said, “You ain’t ready to go, go out there and park outside the gate there and stay there ‘til the morning.





I’m going to bed!” [Laughter] But the men stopped polices from [inaudible 1:12:51]. I came up on the street to get on the highway, and I saw a car way down the street. And I had my radio playing—tape playing, in the car—and I had a song I wanted sing, so I got to the stop sign, I said, “Let me turn this way, I want to listen to the song.” And I was parked there, turning, and the cop was coming. He saw me parked there. And then he was way down the street when I pulled on the road. So, I pulled on the road right about forty miles an hour, and he came up and put his light on me, little before you hit the Quality Inn, store down there. Well, there wasn’t hardly no place there to pull off the road. So after I found a place, and I pull off the road and stop. And he came up to the car and says, “Where your driver’s license?” And I showed him the driver’s license. He said, “Reason why I stopped you, you were speeding.” I said, “Speeding?” He said, “Yeah.” And I said, “I wasn’t speeding. I don’t even hardly get—I just left from down there on this road.” He said, “Yeah, I saw you park there at that road, before you pulled on the road.” And I said, “I wasn’t speeding. You can say I was speeding if you want, but I say I wasn’t speeding. I-75 right there got a sign, 65 miles an hour, and I can drive twenty-five miles down there, and I’ll never get to sixty-five miles an hour. I don’t drive that fast!” And he said, “Well, really, you wasn’t speeding.” This is what he told me. And I said, “I know I wasn’t speeding! If I’d have been speeding, I wouldn’t dispute your word. I tell you I wasn’t speeding, I knew I wasn’t speeding.” He said, “Well, you wasn’t speeding. But reason why I asked you, we that land you came out, there’s some brittles down there.” And this was right near McClark. And he said, “And I was just wondering





why you was coming from out there.” I said, “We have some [inaudible 1:15:09] I just let one out.” [Laughter]

	F:	[Laughter] How does he know?



	J:	He say, “Okay, okay.” [Laughter] I have never paid a ticket, in all my driving.



Never paid a ticket.



	F:	That’s excellent. A lot of people won’t be able to ever say that.



	J:	And I tell people: I tell them what I got to tell them, and I tell them right there. And I’m on the job, coming out kind of where the make these blocks out there. I worked out there for about twelve years. And I told them there some jobs there I wouldn’t do. But old man asked me if I’d work, and I told him, “No, I don’t work for you all.” And he said, “Well, we’d sure like to have you working up here.” And I passed by there every day walking to catch a ride to town. And he had them out working on the block yard. And I said, “No, I don’t think I’m going to work. I would go everywhere for Cumberline company,” because, see, there were too many bosses out there, and then I hear so much going on about. So I figured that wasn’t a place for me to work. And he said, “Well, they got a lot of bosses, but all the bosses are not the same. Not all boss alike. I would like to help you work”—I wasn’t working then. Coming out to town, catch a ride to town, and try to find some work. And he said, “I would like you to work.” I said, “Let me tell you something: I’m going tell you that if you want me to work, let me tell you me first. I work, I don’t mind working, but only two things I want that you know. If you go and hire me on, you can hire me on these terms. I go to church every Sunday.

Sometime, I have to go to church during the week. Not every day, just maybes





have to go to convention Monday for two or three days, or maybe go to church one day to a funeral, whatever. And I’m a bird hunter, I love to hunt. Train bird dogs and hunt. Some days, I can’t work. I got to go hunting. Some days, I may have to go to church. If I have anything coming, I’ll tell you. I ain’t going to stay home and say I’m sick because I ain’t sick. I’m going to let you know now that if you want to hire me on those terms, I’ll work. But other than that”—[claps]. [Laughter] Going to church and hunting came first. And so, he hired me, and I worked there for twelve years. I’d go hunting sometimes, and he wouldn’t even know. And I’ll tell—if you drove up there with a hunting jeep, and the dogs in the car, and I’d be running the machine, making blocks. And if the boss man see it, pop the driver up, he’ll tell somebody to go over there and take Mr. James, tell him whoever it is in that car come to see him. [Laughter] And I worked there a long time, and go in there. And I start giving him, his wife, birds, when she didn’t have nobody left to give her no birds, and I would take them up there. And if I come up there, man come up there with a dog in his car, and I’d have somebody run up to see him. And I come out there, he say— [Waving] Because he know that I got to go to the house to get the dog to the house, or something about a dog. He just doesn’t— [clap]. But that’s my life. I tell you what I’ve got to tell you, and take the consequence afterward. [Laughter] You can do anything you want to do, but I’m’a tell you what I got on my mind. I don’t care if you White, Black, sheriff, green, or blue. I got a lady pastor to our church out there, and one day she was, she had a problem. And she asked me what, she had a problem with the secretary. And the secretary wrote a check, and she wanted to write another





check without authorizing. And I was there, and lady told us, she said, “No, I’m not going to write no other check. If the boss say write it, I’ll write it when we meet this afternoon.” And she left. And so, they asked me, “What you think about that, Mr. James?” I say, “Ain’t nothing for me to think about. I was the secretary for twenty-five years, and I wouldn’t write no check for nobody unless the boss said write a check. I was supposed to write a check when he says so.” And then she asked me, “What do you think of me as a pastor?” I said, “Let me tell you about me first. I am what I am. And I don’t want—when I tell you about you, I don’t want you to think I’m taking advantage because you’s a lady.” And I told her what I want in my life; I said, “What I got to tell you, I tell you, not because you’s a lady, but because you asked a question.” And I told her what I thought about her. [Laughter] I said, “Since you been in, you did a lot of good. You brought in a lot of members, and then you ran some of them away.” [Laughter] And I said, “You brought in people—you brought the tip tithes. We never had as many tithes coming in as you take tithes, and emphasize tithes to them, and a lot of people start paying tithes. That was a good part. You think nobody will know nothing but you! I been in the church all my life, and I know as much about running the church as you do. Maybe more! Because I’m older than you, I’ve been in the church longer than you. The Lord didn’t call me to preach, and the Bible tell me, ‘Speak according to your ability to speak.’ I speak what I’m capable of speaking. That’s what I speak. And I read that scripture all the time.” Read the scripture every morning before I get out of bed. Bed: Bible over here, newspaper over





here. My glasses over here so I can read—my glasses. But I told her the good part, and I told her the bad part. And Alice Thurman—you know Thurman.

	F:	I know [inaudible 1:22:21].



	J:	Alice Thurman’ sister was there. Alice to Alice, sister had come in our church, and she was there, and my sister and one or two people there when I told her that. And Alice told us that, “[Inaudible 1:22:37], when you asked Mr. James that, I got the chills on my arms! Because I know Mr. James. He will speak what he thinks. So I know he was going tell you just like he told you!”

	F:	And that’s good, that’s probably why she asked you. Because a lot of people probably didn’t have the courage to speak the truth to her.

	J:	That’s me. All right, cut that [inaudible 1:23:03]. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, September 8, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, August 14, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 26, 2019