AAHP 247B; Blakely; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 247A Bettie Blakely African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Marna Weston on January 14, 2012 1 hour, 26 minutes | 38 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Mrs. Bettie Blakely describes various locations and corresponding significant events around Inverness, Florida and Dunnellon, Florida as well as her involvement with the Tallahassee CORE (Congress of Racial Equality) chapter and her actions in founding a CORE chapter in Dunnellon. They passed a church called Second Bethel Baptist Church where Mrs. Blakely made a plea for people to become involved in the Civil Rights Movement. She was also involved with the NAACP chapter in Ocala at Covenant Baptist Church. They also passed the previous location of Booker T. Washington High School Inverness, which was the only Black school in Citrus County. Mrs. Blakely mentions Patricia Stephens Due and her gratitude for a book that she wrote about her community and her involvement in CORE. She attended FAMU after Due’s arrest, and was involved in boycotts with Due’s CORE chapter.





Keywords: [African American History; Marion County, Florida; Leon County, Florida; Florida A&M University; Civil Rights Movement; CORE]

































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 247A

Interviewee: Betty Blakely; includes John Blakely, and Unknown passerby Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date: January 14, 2012



	BB:	Judy and I had gone to across the bridge and we were coming back and he gave us a ride and the police came and questioned him later that night for giving the ride to a White person.

	W:	So Mr. Twiggs was just a neighbor or someone you had come to trust?



	BB:	He was a neighbor. He lived in—but his son was the one who was involved with the movement.

	W:	Leander Bowers.



	BB:	Bowers. His name was Bowers. He wasn’t Twiggs. I think he was— W:	Did you meet him in Tallahassee or was it—?

	BB:	No, he lived here. He went to—actually most of the people here in Dunnellon were people who were from Dunnellon but when I came back joined the movement. So the really only people who really came from someplace from out of town were like when Pat and Keenan came. Let’s just go—it’s hard getting across there so let’s go right, follow this road around, and then we’re gonna go up past, go across forty-one and kind of veer back. So most of the people who were involved in the Dunnellon struggle were from Dunnellon and what would happen is—you’re gonna go straight here.

	W:	This is ironic because this is the same thing I did when I went and saw Ms. Due the first time, didn’t have the right recorder. This time I didn’t have batteries. You tell yourself the stuff you’re gonna do but you get so excited about the trip.

	BB:	Okay, just follow this road. Make a left here. I think that when I came back I felt like if we didn’t act now that this little town that very few people knew about would





be a little hammock of places that got bypassed, you know. That all of the changes that were coming about as a result of the Civil Rights Movement would be bypassed because people could shove it off in a corner and not even know it existed. Make a left.

	W:	Oh. We’re on Martin Luther King. Funny about that. We had to collect the eggs every morning when I was growing up.

	BB:	You’re gonna make a right here at this stop sign. Was Lou Rumen at the funeral today?

	JB:	I didn’t see him.



	BB:	You gonna come to a dead end. At the end here, that building right there used to be a church. That was where I made my first plea one Sunday morning.

	W:	For people to be involved in the movement? BB:	For people to be involved in the movement.

	W:	What was the name of the church at that time? BB:	It was Second Bethel Baptist Church.

	W:	Do you remember who the pastor was? BB:	I do not. But we should be able to find out.

	W:	What made you come to church to make the plea?



	BB:	Because that was where the Black people were and where they would be a sufficient number. The church was the center of the Black community, so if you wanted to get your message out, that was how you did it.

	W:	Do you feel that’s changed today or is it pretty much the same?





	BB:	I think that the places are more diffuse now. In some communities it’s still the church. I’m thinking about where I live in Maryland, now if I wanted to do something how would I go about doing it. It might be the same way. Sort of saying, these are the churches because we still have a very segregated church community. I left home that Sunday morning and I didn’t tell my mother one thing. Didn’t say a word. I just got up and I thought I’d just hit the churches, every Sunday that I would go to a church and I started that.

	W:	What was the response?



	BB:	Apparently it was good. You know, people began to coalesce. It didn’t take that long. ‘Cause I only had the summer and we got quite a bit accomplished. Part of what we did was we also got involved with the NAACP chapter in Ocala. That was also an important role in supporting us as well. Reverend Pinkston’s church—Are you familiar with the name?

	JB:	Covenant?



	BB:	Covenant Baptist Church. So we used to go over a lot to Covenant because they would be holding the mass meetings. Actually one of the meetings, Ralph Abernathy came. He spoke and that was the meeting he talked about his relationship with Martin Luther King and how they ate off the same plate and they travelled so much together.

	W:	Sounds important. I don’t have the type of discriminating camera I would like.



Light changes it.



	BB:	So what happened is this lady, Annie Johnson, she was an educator and her family owned a lot of land in this area. J. Williams Street that Bernie’s house is on





was her father and they used to live on that corner and they had a little miscellaneous store you could go in, buy a little notebook and little small things. They had that entrepreneurial spirit. There was also Mr. Wilson, who also had a store across town in Dunnellon. So those were two Black men who had prominence, land, and wealth as I grew up as a kid here in this community.

	W:	What were their full names?



	BB:	Wilson, Alexander. Wilson Alexander, Sr. and Mr. Joe Williams, who was the father of Ms. Annie Johnson and Annie Johnson was a schoolteacher. She taught—where, Bernie?

	JB:	I know she taught in Crystal River. I’m not sure if she taught in Inverness or not. BB:	I don’t think she taught in Inverness.

	JB:	So it had to be Crystal River.



	BB:	I think it was Crystal River. But she was also involved in the community. After I left, all of this became The Annie Johnson Center for the seniors. She worked to do grants and I think that she was probably responsible for some of the naming of the streets as the community opened up. The fact that we live on Nat Turner Lane, as that community developed back there, I think she was involved in being sure that the history of the African American community was acknowledged.

	W:	I did notice that was a strong name. I was like, “Nat Turner Lane? Okay.” [Laughter] Is there another reason? Did we miss something? Great burnout.

	BB:	There’s Crispus Attucks Road. So let’s go to Inverness. So when you’re talking about the school from where you’re grandmother lived and the location—No, stay left.





	W:	Okay.



	BB:	Okay and then we’re gonna make a right. W:	My mother’s school, Eastover?

	BB:	The one you went with your—



	W:	Yeah, to her high school reunion, yes. In Eastover, Armstrong High School, Eastover, North Carolina.

	BB:	So eighteen miles I traveled to go to high school.



	W:	Yeah, it was not quite thirty miles but it was pretty much thirty as far as I was concerned. So straight? It’s down forty-one. It’s just amazing with this big move now toward neighborhood schools again. It’s really just re-segregating schools and demeaning a lot of people. But there are many people who don’t object and would rather have their kids close to home, wherever they go to school.

	BB:	I think people have to be informed. To say that this is what it looks like at face value. But if we have this, this is what’s gonna happen. That “then what?”

	W:	That counts on leaders though. Somebody has to be able to take time to examine the circumstances, look over the evidence, ask the right questions, debate and articulate if necessary, and then bring that down to a level where everybody can understand it and share with them.

	BB:	And make judgments about what’s most important.



	W:	Exactly. So what is your definition of leadership? How do you see a leader?



	BB:	I see leadership as an epicenter where ideas come in and are exchanged and actions are taken. Now there may be one charismatic representative of that





leadership but that is not the sole—I do not see leadership as one person. I see it as collaboration among people who have common goals.

	W:	I’m gonna stop here for a second and get those batteries. Is that something you’ve learned along the way in life and is that something that being involved in CORE contributed to you developing those example or where would you say that your synthesizing that definition came from?

	BB:	I think it came from all of it. I think it came from the training that I got as a member at church where we were elected to go off to the Sunday School Convention. Then you went to the Sunday School Convention. You represented your church, and then you came back and you gave your report. So I think that that was a part of building the leadership skills. Then going off in high school as well, teachers gave us a responsibility. I’ve got a little picture of me putting the sign out that says ‘Band Practice Today.’ So students had leadership roles. You were the section leader of your section in band or you may have had other responsibilities and I think that was a benefit of growing up in a closed society.

	W:	Try to keep track of things. Okay, now we’re cooking with gas.



	BB:	So our chapter is a small chapter. I was president of the chapter nearly two years ago so I had some interesting leadership lessons being the president of the chapter.

	W:	I couldn’t tell if he was talking to me or somebody else. Okay. BB:	We’re gonna make a right.

	W:	Alright. What type of projects does your chapter sponsor?





	BB:	We are just finishing up our fourth year with a group of high school students that we took under our wings to mentor. We started with them when they were in ninth grade. We had about nine girls and of the nine, we have now about seven left. Six of them will graduate this year and one will graduate next year.

	W:	Those are successes certainly.



	BB:	Yes. So the road that we’re on is the road that the school bus travelled. My mother was a school bus driver after I graduated. Right Brian?

	JB:	Yeah.



	BB:	Because my school bus driver was Mr. McCall. So we would come, we must have left, seven thirty in the morning ‘cause what would happen is we would go the first shift and the bus would drop us off. Then they would go into Inverness proper and pick up the second shift. When school was done, then we would have to wait until they dropped the local kids off, come back and then pick us up because our bus driver lived on this side of the community.

	W:	So he dropped off the far kids first and then come back to spend more time with y’all, dropped you off second.

	BB:	Yes, so we would be the first to arrive and the last to leave. W:	That makes sense.

	BB:	But of course we were a very segregated school. We had good teachers but at my high school, we did not have a science lab. The science experiment that I remember was the speed of sound versus the speed of light. You know how we did that experiment? The science teacher had one of the students take the base drum from the band and go out to the field and we stood out the window and





watched him strike the bass drum and determined whether did we hear it before we saw him strike it.

	W:	Oh my gosh. That’s kind of interesting.



	BB:	I never forgot that lesson so when it comes, it just kind of sticks with me. So Bernie, when you were talking about some of the things that you were doing with your kids, that’s why I was saying, look around for things in nature that you can point to them, how science is a part of their everyday life. This was the first stop of the school bus. Do you remember it, Bernie? It would come right around through there and pick up kids and there was a little turnoff back there. It would come right around here and then get back on the road.

	JB:	No, unless we come back that way.



	W:	So you must be—this is interesting for me ‘cause this is something that I’ve noticed from living in Gainesville now. Coming from south Florida, when I first got there I was like what is going on here. Are these the woods? And now south Florida is built up so much whenever I go home that I’m just amazed with the growth that has taken place. Gainesville has gotten bigger although I know my friends from south Florida think it’s still small. You must look around and see, even though there is obviously growth around here, it’s a lot more than when you were growing up. Is it so much that you’re just wow, the explosion or how do you feel about the growth?

	BB:	In certain parts of it. In certain parts of it. Like right along here sort of looks to me like it did, but if you—Like in Hernando, we’ll pass through Hernando and things





have really like exploded in Hernando. They exploded in Inverness but it’s just those pockets to me where it is.

	W:	So the spaces in between are the same?



	BB:	Right, the spaces in between look the same to me.



	W:	Do you think that the economic growth and the building that has taken place here has benefitted African Americans?

	BB:	Well, I think about Dunnellon and after those years of the struggle, actively protesting and all, Dunnellon had some very positive things happen to it. But I don’t think that they were economic. For instance, we had a Black man who was elected sheriff of Dunnellon.

	W:	What were their names?



	BB:	J. W. Boston was the one. He was also, once upon a time, became president of the CORE chapter here but he went on to be a leader in the community, not just in the Black community but in Dunnellon itself. But I think there are fewer jobs because when I was growing up as a kid, Black men had jobs in the mines.

	W:	Phosphate mines?



	BB:	Phosphate mines. So they had jobs where there were like two shifts, the morning shift and the evening shift. So those jobs were there. Those jobs aren’t there anymore. There used to be Rainbow Springs, there was a big tourist area, restaurants and things like that. Black people had jobs in that industry. Bernie, where would you say most Black people are employed now?

	JB:	Florida Power. A large number of men are employed at the Florida Power Plant, nuclear plant in Crystal River.





	BB:	But there are doctors’ offices but Dunnellon doesn’t have like a hospital or an urgent care center or some kind of surgery center so that there would be services provided in there.

	W:	So where do people go when they have a triage or something, medical triage injuries?

BB:  They go to a hospital in Crystal River and there’s an emergency room. They don’t usually go to Gainesville. They will go to like Ocala. There’s an emergency center called TimberRidge and that’s where people went. Don’t you think, Bernie?

JB:   Either Seven Rivers or TimberRidge.



	BB:	Right. Not even to Inverness. Not even to Inverness. Now if people have conditions where they need expert medical assessment or things like that, Shands is the ultimate place to go, because our father went to Shands in his final days. My mom felt like if there was anything that could be done with him, the doctors at Shands would—So to me, Shands is to Florida what Hopkins is to Maryland.

	W:	Your father had cancer? BB:	He had a form of leukemia.

	W:	Shands is very good with cancer. A lot of people feel that Jackson in Miami is better for heart issues than Shands for cancer. So this is a long way if you miss the bus. [Laughter] If you missed the bus, you just stayed at home.

	BB:	Yeah, unless you had somebody with a car to drive you. W:	Yeah, cause this is a day there and a day back.

	BB:	Yes. Well you know, you said eighteen miles but this is—twice a day.





	W:	Twenty minutes in a car. Yeah, this is real. Basically this is like me leaving my house going to work every day and back. I live twenty five miles from campus so that’s what I do every day. It’s Hernando. Now is Hernando traditionally more of an African American community or is it split?

	BB:	Split. It’s split. This would be the second stop on the school bus. W:	What, about right here where this light is?

	BB:	It would be just past the light.



	W:	Okay, that’s the intersection of forty-one and state road two hundred. Just south of there.

	BB:	Right, and so that if you made a right turn back over in there, that’s where the Black community is over there.

	W:	Okay, to the west.



	BB:	Okay, let’s just for the fun of it, you see over there where that sign says ‘For Rent’? We’ll just go, make a right there, then we’ll make another left and then come back on. Do you know where Mr. Twiggs lived this way?

	JB:	Yeah.



	W:	What is this body of water right here to the east? JB:	Not right here.

	BB:	No, sorry, this is me. I thought that was the wrong turn.



	W:	We’ll try it again. This is two hundred so I know what this is. What is this lake right here?

	JB:	Do you know, Betty? W:	Just the Lake?





	BB:	Is it Hernando Lake? JB:	I’m not sure. Right here.

	BB:	Right here, yes. So Mary and Gary and all of them, they would be waiting here and the bus would pull up and they would get on.

	W:	So were there several families back here whose kids would get on? BB:	Oh yeah.

	W:	We’re just gonna ride back. The roads are changing.



	JB:	Mr. Twiggs is right there, the house on the left. That’s where Mr. Twiggs lived.



	BB:	Now Mr. Twiggs, this is the son of the—remember I told you about Leander? His father lived in that house.

	W:	Who lives there now?



	BB:	Mr. Twiggs himself lives there. W:	So he’s still with us?

	BB:	Yes, the son Twiggs is still living. See there’s a church here. They’re getting ready to have a baptismal service. She’s got her robe on. Maybe they’re having a Martin Luther King Day.

	W:	Mount Carmel Baptist Fifth Anniversary.



	BB:	Now Earl Smith lives someplace back in here. The Smiths, Bernie? JB:	Yeah, I’m not sure where Earl Smith’s house is.

	W:	They’re having some kind of fish fry or a barbecue or something going on over there.

	BB:	There’s another church. There’s a little integration going on. W:	Just stick your hand up.





BB:  Well we could ask them what the name of the river is.



	W:	Oleander Lane and Calamander. So Hernando Cemetery 1887, would that mean? Was it a Black cemetery? Doesn’t seem so?

JB:   You can ask those guys up there. Maybe they’ll be able to tell us.



	W:	So this’ll be interesting. [To someone on street] Hey, how are y’all today? BB:	All right, we have a question for you.

U:   Yes, ma’am.



BB:  The cemetery back there, is that a Black cemetery?



	U:	No, the Black cemetery is up there on the hill before you get to the second church, there’s a church on the left hand side.

	BB:	By Mr. Twiggs?



U:  Yeah right before you get to Mr. Twiggs, it’s the street right there. It’s a dead end and it goes up and the dead end to the left, before you go up by Mr. Twiggs’. The grave’s right up there.

W:   Thank you.



BB:  Do you know Earl Smith?



U:   No, ma’am. I know some of the Smiths. I know Russell.



	BB:	Yeah, and what about Red? Did you know Red Smith? R. L. Smith?



	U:	No ma’am. I’m not really from here but I know of some of the Smiths, their people, but I don’t know them.

	BB:	Okay, I went to school with them so it’s quite a while ago. U:	You went to Booker T?

	BB:	Yeah.





	U:	You look familiar. My daddy’s Randolph.



	BB:	Randolph? I know Randolph was in my class. You know me from the pictures? U:	Yeah, I did the DVD. I helped him with it so I remember your face.

	BB:	Oh, did you? Okay.



	U:	What’s your name again? BB:	Bettie.

	U:	Bettie, that’s right. I’m gonna let him know I saw you then. BB:	Oh, yes. Please do that. How is he doing?

	U:	He’s doing well. He’s retired now from the school system.



	BB:	Yeah, ‘cause he and Earl are good friends. Earl is in the nursing home down in Inverness. I saw before they had the reunion, I had come to visit. That was when he interviewed me for the DVD. Well good luck to you.

	U:	Y’all travel safe.



	W:	Thank you.



	BB:	Let me introduce, this is my brother John. He and Bruce were friends. JB:	We were roommates at Florida State.

	BB:	This is Mr. Marna Weston.



	W:	I coordinate the oral history program at the University of Florida so we’re just— Ms. Blakely’s story, the story of the Dunnellon CORE, is one that really resonates with us so we’re always out just looking for information.

	BB:	We’re having a memory lane so we saw the cemetery and he was asking me.



We were looking at the dates and I said, but I don’t think that’s the Black cemetery.





	W:	We said, let’s ask them.



	U:	Yeah, I work at the college in Ocala, used to be CFCC, and now it’s College of Central Florida, so that’s where I am.

	W:	Terrific.



	BB:	So how would you assess the plight of the African Americans in this community?



	U:	That’s a good question. Well you know, I’m from Inverness but you’re talking about specifically here?

	BB:	Just in the general area.



	U:	I mean most of the families have been here for years and years. Most of them are hard workers. You have a lot of single parent families in this community. But for the most part, most of them are trying to better themselves from what I can see. There’s a lot of negativeness and stuff going on too.

	BB:	What would you say about the civil rights issues of the day? What’s the most challenging? Do you think access to jobs, housing?

	U:	That was gonna be my first thing. Yeah, I’d probably say lack of jobs and then the way the economy and stuff has been probably for the past couple years.

	BB:	Well it’s nice to meet you. U:	You too.

	BB:	I’m so glad that you recognized me. U:	Yes ma’am. I said, she looks familiar.

	BB:	Okay, so I have Randolph’s email. I’m gonna shoot him an email because I wanted to do something special for Earl one day. Thank you very much. Nice to meet you.





	U:	I don’t know if y’all know but they’re having a Black history program for celebration in Ocala tomorrow. I mean on Monday and they’re gonna have a parade starting in downtown Ocala and they’re gonna march to the Black neighborhood on Martin Luther King Street. It’s normally an all-day event.

	BB:	So is Covenant involved?



	U:	I believe so. Mostly all of the Black churches in Ocala are involved. BB:	Great, thank you. So you’re gonna go?

	U:	Yean, I’ll be there. Also I am the advisor to the gospel choir is required there so there are gonna be—

	BB:	So what time is your gospel choir gonna be performing? U:	I think they’re gonna be there around twelve noon.

	BB:	So where is?



	U:	It’s on Martin Luther King. We have an extension of our campus called the Hampton Center, which is right on Martin Luther King.

	W:	From Hampton Junior College?



	U:	Exactly. So they’re gonna be in- There’s a park in that area. You can’t miss it, so if y’all aren’t doing anything, come out.

	BB:	Thank you. Take care. Bye bye.



	W:	So you know that young man’s dad?



	BB:	Yes, he was my classmate. Isn’t that funny? W:	It’s a small world.

	BB:	And he recognized—he helped his dad. They had a—to the school we’re going is that periodically they will have an all-class reunion, whoever attended that





school. They did a couple of years ago. I came early and I wasn’t able to come back so they got me on DVD and so he’s saying that he recognized me from it.

W: When you edit somebody, you remember it. BB:  Make a right.

W:  It just goes to show that nothing is random. There’s a purpose that you visit someone.

JB: Go across and make a left. BB:  Make a left.

W:  Because if we didn’t have to come down that road, you didn’t have to turn there, we would have never stopped and talked to them. And if he didn’t have to be the one standing out there.

BB:  I know, and he’s so well spoke. I mean, I’m proud like a grandmother. W:  And out of CFCC, so doing something.

	BB:	And you know, he’s kind of casually hanging out there. You could make assumptions about him like people oftentimes to.

	W:	Exactly. Like we weren’t scared to go talk to him, but I know exactly what you mean. Basically, as Black men we deal with that anytime we go anywhere.

	BB:	My son does that.



	W:	I was stopped by the police the other night because of a taillight. I just made sure I kept my hands on the wheel, top grill. When I gonna reach for my wallet, I said, “May I reach for it officer?” “Where you gonna reach?” is what he said. I’m glad I talked to him ‘cause he was nervous. I could tell he was nervous. I didn’t want him to be nervous on me. He ended up relaxing just gave me a warning instead





of a ticket, told me to take care of it and I said, “Thank you very much.” You stop somebody in the middle of the night, even if you’re a police officer with a gun and you’re not as confident as you should be, anything could happen. Which is weird because many of my friends who are White, they don’t feel the same obligation to perform a certain way in front of the police to make sure that they don’t feel uncomfortable, to make sure they feel they give them the information. Even if you don’t want to tell them anything, but not to be rude. Many of them will cuss the police. I cannot imagine cussing out the police. I mean, what? In fact, the first time I saw that, I think my eyes got big. I was like, “Are you cussing out the police? Really? You can do that and live? You can cuss out the police? Wow, that’s incredible.” I still remember it. Wow, they cussed out the police. I would never even think about doing that. It may be a horrible story but just the possibility, the imagination is what your parents would be told, what would happen to you, all kinds of stuff. It’s just not even in my thought process to cuss the police, right or wrong. If I can’t think of anything good to say in front of them, I wouldn’t say anything at all.

	BB:	This building used to be a fruit stand. You asked me about changes that I’ve seen, that building is the same except now there’s no business there. They used to have lots of fruit and you could always stop there and pick up.

	W:	A Black owned business? BB:	No, it wasn’t Black.

	W:	But still, some of that is the interstate so there’s not as many people that travel back here. But still, a lot of people still do travel back here.





	BB:	The structure is still there, but the difference is when I was traveling this road. W:	It was a major market.

	BB:	It was a major market.



	W:	Now Walmart and whatever it is undercut them. Speaking of that, what do you think about the decline of local merchants, in particular, local Black businesses? That’s happened since the time you were in college to now? The Walmartization of our communities, where many people are, “I’ve gotta go to Walmart because it’s the cheapest.” I’m thinking to myself that same Walmart that you’re going to to get discounts destroyed the local businesses that used to be in the community you live in, yet you’re so excited about it. What are your thoughts about that?

	BB:	Well, when I grew up in Dunnellon as a kid—I told you about Mr. Wilkes Alexander and Mr. Joe Williams had the little store. They also had houses I think that they rented out so I do not remember. Mr. McCall, who was the bus driver, was also a barber. He had his own shop. There were a few Black businesses, but even for Walmart, they didn’t put any Black businesses out of business in Dunnellon.

	W:	They were already out of business?



	BB:	No. Yeah, they were already out of business. I mean, this wasn’t a place where if you were a Black businessmen, you probably owned a juke joint where you had a little club. Mr. Heery Leslie had that, Bernie, remember? Up in Chatmire and they had it but there was never any great signs of entrepreneurship in the Black community other than those examples that I said to you before.

	W:	Was that Mr. Heery Leslie? Is that one name?





	BB:	Leslie is the last name and Mr. Heery.



	W:	Heery Leslie, he owned a juke joint in Chatmire. I passed through that on the way it’s kind of in Dunnellon but its north of where you live.

	BB:	Yes, and that my brother and I were having a conversation about Chatmire and he said that he thinks that Whites are gonna take over Chatmire. But Chatmire was definitely a hub for the Black community.

	W:	Where the McDonalds is?



	BB:	There’s a McDonalds right there but if you make a left like coming to our house, if you made a left in there, you would go back in there and all around there is the Black community. He’s saying that people are not paying their taxes and so that White people are coming in and buying up the land, you know, and taking over.

	W:	I can tell you, just as someone that passed through there that’d never been through before today, that area of Chatmire did not impress me as a Black area today. I pretty much thought that was a White area just driving through.

	BB:	Well you just came through the city part. The residential community is off to the left.

	W:	I did see the sign that said Chatmire. Am I in Dunnellon or am I in Chatmire?



That’s what made sense. I know geographically where you’re talking about. That is a historically Black part of the area?

	BB:	Yes. Actually where the Black school was right on that road across from Walmart.

	W:	That’s where Booker T. Washington was?



	BB:	We had a Booker T. Washington here and a Booker T. Washington in Dunnellon.





	W:	Wow, so two schools with the same name? Wow. That’ll be important to note historically, to note which Booker T. Washington you’re talking about. How were they distinguished locally from another?

	BB:	This was BTW Inverness. You’re gonna make a left in here and the other one was BTW Dunnellon. There used to be a football rivalry.

	W:	Yeah, they had to fight over the name. [Laughter]



	JB:	Of course you had two different mascots. One was the Hornets and the other one was the Wildcats.

	W:	So you could distinguish it that way. BB:	No. BTW was the Wildcats?

	JB:	Chatmire was the Wildcats.



	BB:	But the other one, your group was the Tigers? JB:	Dunnellon Tigers, but BTW was the Hornets.

	BB:	I remember that but I’m talking about the Black BTW. JB:	Was the Wildcats.

	BB:	Can you see Inverness Middle School?



	W:	This used to be Booker T. Washington High School. BB:	This used to be Booker T. Washington High School.

	W:	So why didn’t they leave it as Booker T. Washington Middle School? BB:	Because White people were coming in.

	W:	And that was just unspoken?



	BB:	It was unspoken. This is new construction. Just stop right here in front of the— see the plaque?





W:  Yes, I do. Booker T. Washington alumni, the only Black school in Citrus County. Booker T. Washington High School. Get a picture of that. By the way, this is my first time knowing of this.

	JB:	They’ve got it on there, the home of the maroon and gray hornets. BB:	I don’t think we can go around. Is there a fence there?

	W:	Well we’ll see. JB:	I don’t think so.

	W:	It’s a school. I don’t think they’ll make it hard to get out of here. BB:	I think we can go that way. This is probably—

	W:	We can probably go that way too. I mean, there’s nothing gonna come out of there. So this is more of the older part of the school.

	BB:	This is the older part and this is where little John Mells’ classroom was down at this end when he went to kindergarten here.

	JB:	Under Ms. Marilyn Williams.



	BB:	Right here, this was his first grade class.



	W:	So is this pretty much the original structure as you recall it?



	BB:	This is the original structure. Now the interesting part about this is that over on the back, it’s all torn down now, but they used to have the temporary buildings.

	W:	Portables?



	BB:	Portables. So that we had the elementary school was with the cinder blocks but the portables were the high schools. We’d have one portable that was the music building and then we had another portable that had the library and two





classrooms. Then the cafeteria when I came here was also a part they had added on a building for the cafeteria.

	W:	When you look at the school like this now, changed but in a way still here, but not exactly what it was or what you might have wanted it to be, what are your thoughts?

	BB:	My thoughts are that our history got compromised and that we lost something. The schools got integrated but we were subsumed under the other culture and our culture was not recognized. This was a very segregated community. We got books from the White students. The facilities were inadequate and the principal wanted to do the best he could not to rock the boat. But it was all that we knew.

	W:	What was his name?



	BB:	Mr. Taylor. What’s Mr. Taylor’s first name? JB:	I don’t remember his first name.

	BB:	His wife was Johnnie Bell Taylor. It was a different color then. It all got whitewashed.

	W:	That’s almost a move title. “It all got whitewashed.” Book chapter, something. So this was the front of the school or was it the side?

BB:  Unh-uh, this was the side. This was the side, so that what would happen is that the center of the school, past that section back there, is where all the portables were. I think that the principal’s office was in that section.

W:  That looks like that would have been a principal’s office over toward the front. I mean, they just built this building right in front of the whole thing. I wonder if the kids here even have any idea.





	BB:	I wonder if the kids even know this plaque exists. W:	Were you here when the plaque was put in?

	BB:	No, I wasn’t. But I did get the—I think I have a copy of where it was in the paper. W:	So did these recognitions that people are making now about the Civil Rights

Movement, about CORE and about how things were, do you feel that they’re doing justice? Are they important or is it not enough? Is it something? When people such as myself wanna come talk to you about the contributions that you made by having existed and persevered and come back and being able to talk about it and life, what does that mean to you?

	BB:	I wanna tell you what I think about [inaudible 50:52]. This is all like a basketball court now but this is open. This is where the road went straight down back and there were portable buildings back over there. That was the hub of it, of the campus. The buses would come in and they had a little area that they would come and pick up students and make the turn and come back out into this road. You know, I have such high regard for Pat Due and the fact that she kept the records and wrote the book that told the story and that that was our story. I am just absolutely thrilled and I have several copies of the book and when I visited with Pat in August, I noticed that they had taken a cover of the book and framed it. When I came back, I took one of the covers because it is for me. I keep that. It’s a memory of what can happen when there is this coming together and one of the things that we had a discussion with John about is—and one of the things that Pat had talked about was having a gathering. So it is a gathering and I see this as a gathering, so that we’ve come together to revisit and examine and





maybe learn something to go forward from as we reflect. That it is, in Pat’s words, is that the struggle continues. It’s not done and the work is not finished. I examine myself now to say, at nearly seventy years of age, what is my role?

What’s my responsibility? So I think part of the answer to that question is some of the work that I do with the links. It is a way of being involved in my community and trying to make a difference at least in the lives of the people that I know. That we all must care about each other and I guess, ultimately, it would be a wonderful thing if it didn’t matter whether we were Black or White, that we all had a sense of caring and a sharing of the labor and the fruits. I think it’s all good to have the revisits and the documents. I watched the one with Dan that Pat and Dan did.

	W:	Two Brothers, Two Sisters?



	BB:	Two Brothers and Two Sisters. Look at that and just think what marvelous— those were great times. I mean, we had challenges but we felt like the work that we were doing was making a difference. You could see it. I remember picketing the theatre and one of the staunch segregationists, you saw him go and pull his kid out of the theatre and walk out, very, very angry. My thoughts were, when that theatre closed, then fine with me because I don’t have to go upstairs in the balcony and you sit downstairs in the comfort. I wish that economically we were better off in that community. I wish that as an African American people, we were better, that there wasn’t so much poverty. Not just for us, but for the world in general. To say that there’s enough resources in the world that nobody has to





live the way that some people have to live inside this country as well as outside of this country.

	W:	Do you ever have a moment where you have ill feelings about some of these changes and things? For example, that sign says Inverness Middle School. They’ve obviously put some money and resources into it. Not the exact same amount, but similar resources could have been used in the time when you were going to school but it wasn’t done. How do you reconcile the positive feelings that you have with the negative feelings that you maybe could have from it?

	BB:	I think the positive feelings about it is that we recognized that we weren’t being treated fairly and that we didn’t have a voice to protest, but we worked around it. I had a fantastic math teacher, Ms. Pearly Mae Stewart, who had come here. Her husband played professional football for a short period of time, I wanna think it was the Chicago Bears, because he was killed in an automobile accident. As students, we went to his funeral. But she was a young teacher and she taught us trig and she was far better than any of the other math teachers that had come before here. When I got to FAMU, I didn’t have to do remedial math. I remember standing in the line, waiting to find out—FAMU used to have—the registration process was two days long. There were no computers so you had to go stand in the line and get the card and somebody had to check. I remember at the table for the math, to choose which math course that you were gonna get, the woman said, “You can’t take the math, you’ve got to take this other math before.” I’m thinking, “Oh gosh,” because we didn’t know about the SATs. I know that one day we came in and they was gonna be two days of exams. We just took the





test. There was no teaching to the test. I don’t even think I knew what my score was. When I got there, I was relieved to find I didn’t have to do remedial math and I thought about Ms. Stewart and all of the times that she had worked with us. She was just an excellent math teacher.

	W:	Has she passed now?



	BB:	Uh-huh. She’s passed. Yeah, she had two girls. She had young girls and after her husband died, it was a struggle for her trying to keep up with those girls. But we knew the lives of the teachers ‘cause they lived in our community and we knew about them. So I think it’s a good thing. I would love to see this BTW, even if it was a middle school, I would love to see the name BTW on it.

	W:	Maybe not in this spot, but maybe they’ll build another Booker T. Washington school. We need the schools, that’s for sure. Florida’s not getting any smaller. I’m always amazed with these names that they put on things in Florida anyways. For example, I know that President Reagan was considered a great president by many rhetorically and for his times and that speech that he gave with the Challenger explosion and wanting an America with all this stuff, so Ronald Reagan—but he’s not even from Florida and the turnpike is named after him. I don’t understand why it’s the Ronald Reagan turnpike as opposed to the A. Phillip Randolph, he’s from Florida. Or Mary McLeod Bethune, she’s from Florida. I could see if California had a turnpike named after them, but why is a turnpike in Florida named after Ronald Reagan, who’s not from Florida?

	BB:	Well, maybe we should head back. W:	Okay.





[Break in recording]



	BB:	This would be the round trip.



	W:	An A school? Well upholding tradition, that’s good. The people of the community that were making these decisions at the time, the school board, the county commissioners, were they known to you all as your teachers were known or were they more distant persons?

	BB:	They were very distant people. They were people in another place making decisions that affected us, that affected our resources, that they really had the power. We knew that our principal had limited powers. I’m trying to remember ‘cause sometimes we—I did know his name, who the superintendent of schools were at that time. It was always, he was the great White father.

W:  I guess you knew for a few years that it was coming, that the schools were going to be turned over and all those things later on. You knew when it was happening later on.

BB:  I did but I was gone by then because I went to FAMU in 1960. So I left here to go to FAMU in 1960.

	W:	In the fall of [19]60? BB:	In the fall of [19]60.

	W:	Okay, so you go there after the arrests and the—



	BB:	Right, Pat was already—right. But I was involved in Tallahassee with the theatres. We would go downtown to the theatre and actually, in Tallahassee was where I got arrested with the group. Huh?

	W:	He’s on the phone.





	BB:	Oh.



	W:	Could be your mom calling. When did you know that you’d be going to school at FAMU?

	BB:	I always knew that I was going to FAMU if I was going to college.



	W:	Okay, I guess you’re right. For me, from my perspective and the students I deal with, there were all these choices. But you knew you were going to FAMU.

	BB:	I knew I was going to FAMU. W:	Never any doubt?

	BB:	Because it was the state school, it would be where the tuition would be where we could afford it. There wasn’t any idea about going. I tell you what, there were three of us who were friends here. There was Barbara Joyner, Doris Green, and myself, we were three pals. Doris was going to the school in—not Spelman, School for Black Women.

	W:	But not Spelman? BB:	Not Spelman.

	W:	What state was it in?



	BB:	North Carolina, was it? Must have been Georgia. W:	Clark?

	BB:	No, oh gosh.



	JB:	What’s it?



	BB:	A Black school for women that Doris Green went to. JB:	College?

	BB:	Yeah.





	JB:	Fisk? Spelman?



	BB:	No, it’ll come to me. But what happened was that Doris’s mother was a domestic worker and they were paying for Doris’s college education but they made a choice. They decided if they were gonna pay for it, that was where she had to go. Bennett.

	W:	Bennett College?



	BB:	Bennett College. At that time, wasn’t it? All girls, I think so. I think it was women.



Everything okay?



	JB:	She went around to the house to see if I was home. BB:	I meant to call her.

	JB:	I think she’s running back to the house.



	W:	We’ve been gone for a little bit. What was the environment like in Tallahassee in 1960? Did you know going up there you were gonna be involved in CORE or activism?

	BB:	Oh no.



	W:	So you went there just to go to school?



	BB:	I went there to go to school. I met Pat Due after I got there and of course all of the things that were going on all over the colleges, starting with the sit-in at North Carolina.

	W:	So how did you meet Pat Due?



	BB:	I met Pat Due out of—she would have these, I guess you could call it her soap box out in front of the student union hall, telling students about what was going





on and what needed to be done and getting involved in the demonstrations. So by getting involved and being a part of that, that’s how I met Pat.

	W:	You just heard her and you stopped? Or you knew that something was going on and you were drawn to that particular soap box between classes?

	BB:	It was like, say you were coming from the dining hall, you had gone to dinner, and then she would be out in front of the student union center and organizing the marches. My close friends didn’t do that. There was ambivalence a lot on the part of the students whether to get involved or not. I don’t know, there was just something that spoke to me.

	W:	Were people worried about getting kicked out of school or not being able to get enough done with their classes or as you described, ambivalence? That’s a multi-layered word. [Laughter]

	BB:	It was something entirely new. You go on the march, you don’t know what’s gonna happen to you. We got tear gassed. We missed classes. It was a sacrifice, and many people were there, not of privilege. There were some but that was not the situation with the majority of the students. Then of course, it was what Mr.

Taylor was to BTW, Dr. Gore was to FAMU. You know, keep the campus quiet and don’t raise too much of a ruckus.

	W:	Did you speak to Dr. Gore on numerous occasions or what exactly was your relationship as a student at the time with the president of FAMU?

	BB:	Only on like formal occasions or things that you would hear that he was not in favor of but I don’t remember any close up discussions with Dr. Gore.

	W:	Just, it came to you that he was not in favor of the protests?





BB:  Right. Right. Then of course, the situation with Pat, Priscilla, I’m sure that part of that was the conversation with Pat was about what their situation was as well.

W:  Do you see them as a unit or how do you distinguish between the two of them in your friendship, in your recollections of the two sisters?

BB:  I didn’t know Priscilla well, so I see Priscilla as the sister of Pat because Priscilla had left FAMU when I got there. I don’t remember Priscilla at FAMU, I remember Pat but not Priscilla. The couple is Pat and John for me.

W:   Did CORE change your life and if so, how?



	BB:	I think CORE taught me courage, to stand up, to speak for myself and not to accept, not to see things as they are and think that that was the way that they had to be. To be afraid but then to get past my fear and act. I remember once, we were in Ocala and we were doing some testing of restaurants. One of my neighbors had gone with me. We were going in by twos, sitting in the restaurant. This was Cole Tribble, Bernie. So Cole and I were partners so we went in and we sat in the restaurant. We sat in a booth. So the woman came over and she says, “We don’t serve Coloreds here.” So we said, “Well we would like to speak to your manager.” You know, you had the script and everything. So when the manager got there, I looked around, and Cole was gone. [Laughter] He didn’t say goodbye. I just looked at him and Cole was gone.

	W:	In the wind.



	BB:	I mean, not even made a sound. It was, when I looked to my left, Cole was nowhere to be found. So there I was, you know. I wasn’t gonna get up and leave.

	W:	This is the funniest thing I have ever heard!





	BB:	So the manager came out and we talked and everything and I left. I thought, unh- uh!

	W:	That was your partner?



	BB:	That was my partner. But you know, it was hard. It was something entirely different from the way you had been living.

	W:	Yeah, of course.



	JB:	Everybody wasn’t heroic.



	BB:	You remember, Bernie, you remember Marian? Millie and Marian? JB:	Absolutely.

	BB:	And Marian would come to the house, we with you, we with you. You told him, you always talkin’ about you with him, you with him and then when it come time to do something, you don’t even show up.

	W:	That was a big call-out right there. So that courage was more individual in how it struck you but how did you or did you ever learn to help inspire it in others?

	BB:	Well, there are two people who come to mind. There are two young women from Dunnellon that was younger than myself and actually, I’m talking about Erdine and Gina.

	JB:	Oh, okay.



	BB:	What’s the last name? JB:	Churchwells.

	BB:	Churchwells.



	W:	These are sisters?





	BB:	Yes, they are sisters and they were a part of the picketing and going to the mass meetings and things like that. So about, I guess a couple of years ago, they were here at the same time I was here and we had a chance to reminisce and to talk about things. They expressed an interest in saying, we should write our stories. But also, at the time I didn’t realize it but Judy Benninger—

	JB:	We’ll be back in about five minutes. We’ll be back in about five minutes. BB:	My mom has dementia.

	W:	I thought there was something of hesitancy when I first said something to you and you said it in such a way that I think that I should, she would not be a good candidate for an interview. That was, you were very polite, but it was very quick. I was like, “She’s telling me.” I picked that up right away. You were saying about that Chatwells.

BB:  The Churchwells. Yeah, the two girls that were a part of it. There were a lot of young people involved you know with the picketing and the meetings. So with them, I think that I was to them was Pat was to me. What I was saying is that I didn’t think that—I mean, with Judy, we were just out getting things done and it was when Carol Brown or—Do you know who I’m talking about?

W:   I think I know who you’re talking about. Carol Thomas?



	BB:	Maybe. Judy Benninger Brown and the one who was doing her dissertation. She did her dissertation—

W:   Was it Gia Gardner?



	BB:	Yes, Gia Gardner and she was saying that Judy told her that I was an inspiration to her.





	W:	I’ve read much the same from that work that Susan listen edited can’t recall the name right now, many people know it as a dynamic inspiration to many, especially the kids from Gainesville.

	BB:	Well you know, I went to some meeting and gave a speech in Gainesville.



	W:	Must have been some speech. [Laughter] Must’ve been the speech of speeches.



What do you recall about that meeting?



	BB:	Not much. I remember, I don’t think Erdine went but Gina went, Churchwell. I don’t remember much. It would have been great to have kept the notes I had for the meeting. I guess to me there is something terribly wrong with the idea that one human being sees himself more than, you know, that inequality of the races. Make a right. You see where that green sign is? Make a right, right there.

	W:	West Eugene Martin Lane and Eugene Martin Park.



	BB:	Eugene Martin Park. Eugene Martin. Bernie, you want to tell him about Eugene Martin?

	JB:	Eugene Martin was a community activist in south Dunnellon and he was instrumental in getting the funding from the county commissioners for this park.

	BB:	He was also involved in the water association, wasn’t he? Bringing water to the community?

	JB:	Yes, he helped developed the non-profit corporation of southwest Dunnellon Water Association. He was instrumental in that as well.

	W:	Had you ever heard of CORE before you got involved with it?



	BB:	I don’t think so. I think my acquaintance with CORE came from FAMU. Go straight.





	W:	And could you remind me again the name of the organizer from CORE? Zev? BB:	Zev Aloney. In the newspaper, they always called him Zev Aloney, A-L-O-N-E-Y.

Actually, Bernie had printed up—Zev died not too long ago, and then I’ll also give you—you know where Zev is from? Minnesota, that’s where Zev is from.

	W:	Really?



	BB:	I remember reading that from that article. Go straight. W:	Did you attend the service or you just heard?

	BB:	It was after the fact that I knew. Make a left—that Zev had passed away. ‘Cause we lost touch after a while.

[Break in Recording]



	JB:	Nice meeting you.



	W:	Nice to meet you too.



	JB:	As someone who is interested, I think great work, you know to document all of this.

	BB:	You know what I’ll do is, I have a few things like I have a ledger where people sign in.

	W:	Keep going.



BB:  People signed in at some of the meetings. I’ll send that to you and then I’ll also give you, make a copy of the CORE letter and any kind of things or notes that I can kind of remember.

	W:	And anytime, please feel free to give me a call if there’s some way I can be able to assist you. There was some biographical information I wanted to ask you that I didn’t get to. When and where were you born?





	BB:	I was born in Quincy, Quincy, Florida. I was born July 19, 1942 and my mother was a young single mother and I grew up under the tutelage of my grandmother in Quincy and then my mom and I migrated to Ocala.

	W:	What’s your mom’s full name? BB:	Annie. She was Annie Mae Right. W:	And your grandmother?

	BB:	Jamie Williams. W:	And grandfather?

	BB:	I don’t know my grandfather. W:	Okay, how about your dad?

	BB:	My dad is my stepdad and he is John Mell. He was the person who provided the male leadership for me. My biological father was Charles Lee Francis and he had another family. It was not unusual, even in these times, for that to happen. But the male influence in my life was my stepdad.

	W:	Were you and your biological dad every close at all or was it separate realities?



	BB:	I think actually what happened was that when we moved to the section of the state, we were on his coattails and then later on, he was periodically in and out of my life. Actually, when he died, maybe eight, ten years ago, we had reconnected. Actually what happened, on the day that I got married back in February 1979, I had sent him an invitation, just to let him know that I was getting married and to my great surprise, he showed up for the wedding. That was a very special moment. So we were in contact periodically for not any of that strong mother- daughter bond. He was a graduate of FAMU.











[End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, February 19, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019