AAHP 319; Hibbert; Page 10

AAHP 319

Interviewee: Clementine Hibbert Interviewer: Brittany Hibbert Date: October 6, 2013



	BH:	Okay so, this is Brittany Hibbert and I am interviewing my mother for Dr. Nunn’s class, and it’s October 6, 9:52am, I think. No, it’s after ten now sorry, it’s 10:08. This is my mom, Clementine Hibbert, and I’m interviewing her for my thesis and we’re gonna be talking about Black women’s bodies and how we identify and perceive our bodies in the context of popular culture and just ask her some questions about her own—I guess her own coming-of-age story kinda, sorta, and how she used her own body and questions like that. So, good morning, mom.

	CH:	Hey.



	BH:	You can talk a little bit. CH:	Good morning.

	BH:	I don’t know if they can hear you. Say something. CH:	Good morning, Brittany.

	BH:	Okay I think they can. Okay so first off I just want to give you kind of a background of what my research question is and what I’m doing it for. So I asked, “How has the historical and visual representation and sustained use and significance of Black bodies affected the means by which Black women identify and perceive their bodies?” “Has this critical view of Black bodies proved to be an impediment on Black women’s claims to sexuality and sensuality?” So obviously I want to interview you because you’re my mom and I know you’ll talk to me for an hour about what I need to talk about, but also because I know that you also had a very different upbringing from me so the images that you were presented of Black women I think will be very different and also really cool to look at. So that’s





why we wanted to interview you. So my first question is, could you talk about where you grew up, because obviously I knew where you grew up, but for the sake of the interview can you talk about your experience growing up? Where you grew up and that kind of information, so can you give us some background information?

CH:  I grew up in the parish of St. Andrew in Jamaica in the 1970s. I was born in 1960 so I was a teenager in the Michael Jackson age, and what aspect of it would you like to know about?

	BH:	Well you said you grew up in Jamaica. So what was that like as far as being a young woman in Jamaica around the time of Michael Jackson and like, you know he was like this super sexual, sensual guy. Like what was that like for you as a young woman?

	CH:	Oh we were all so crazy about Michael Jackson, but also I grew up very poor so I can also recall wanting one of his posters and couldn’t get one. I can recall having friends at high school who were more privileged who went to New York for vacation and came back home with a poster and how envious I was you know?

BH:  When you were growing up and looking at Michael Jackson did you understand like, the images that he was portraying? Did you understand the sensuality and the sexuality that you were seeing?

	CH:	Yes I did.



	BH:	Okay and what would you say your body type is? If you had to describe your body type? Like then and now, what would you describe it as?





	CH:	Well, wow, as a teenager I had the perfect body I think. BH:	What’s the perfect body?

	CH:	I was a thirty-two, twenty-six, thirty-six. BH:	Okay.

	CH:	I was so proud of my body, and obviously growing up in Jamaica we didn’t have to worry about somebody kidnapping us or hurting us at that time. So I used to wear a lot of my body out. I used to wear you know the midriff tops and the shorts and I was proud of my body and I always wanted to show my body. Now, at fifty- three years old I still feel sexy, but obviously I can’t dress the same way and I don’t feel as great about my body because I have, you know, most Black women have the fat in the mid-section, and obviously if I could I’d love to—I wouldn’t mind doing liposuction or something. But, because I’m diabetic I won’t consider that, but I really, I still feel pretty when I get dressed, but I’m very much aware of the fact that I don’t have the flat stomach anymore.

	BH:	Okay and you mentioned liposuction. Now, would you get liposuction because you’re unhappy with the way your body looks or is it because culturally, like looking at other women’s bodies and saying, “Wow, she’s the same age as me and she has a flat stomach,” does that have any bearing on your decision to get it?

	CH:	No, no no. I would get it because I want it and because I know what I used to look like. Actually, to be honest, when I look at other women my age I feel proud. I feel like I did good, and I feel like when I tell—because a lot of times I tell people I’m fifty-three years old and they don’t believe. They think I look really good for





my age. So, whatever I would do to enhance how I look now would not have any bearing on what people think. It’s more about me and how I feel, what I see in the mirror and I compare that to what I used to be. So it’s like I feel like I could still look that way.

	BH:	Okay and what do you remember about your childhood as far as being taught about your body? Like you always taught me to be very selfish or like- I don’t really think I had much issue with my body growing up, but what were you taught as far as the way you looked and how to value your body? What were you taught?

	CH:	You mean the physical body?



	BH:	Well both. What were you taught in terms of image and, “Oh you have a beautiful body Marie, you should love your body image.” Like were you reassured in the house?

	CH:	Well to be honest in the cultural environment that I grew up in, I cannot recall having one conversation with my parents or anybody. It was not in—that didn’t happen. Conversations like those just never happened. I don’t know if it was because of how my parents grew up in that time. It was lack of education, lack of—in Jamaica at that time, you really didn’t have parents saying, “Oh you’re beautiful,” you know, but in terms of your values, I was always taught, “Be careful, don’t sleep around with guys. Be careful who you choose for a boyfriend,” stuff like that. So I was very, very much aware of how I carried myself.

	BH:	When do you think you had your first conversation about your body with someone?





CH:  Wow. I think well into my late teens and it was not with parents. It was more with friends. It was more with peers, but I never had a parent saying, “Gee, you have a nice figure, keep it up,” whatever.

	BH:	So were you ever conscious of the way you looked before you had that conversation or was it something you never thought about?

	CH:	No I was always conscious of—I always knew that I looked good, because people always told me I look good. So at that point I became aware of what a nice figure was supposed to be because I always was told I had one.

BH:  Okay so how did the men in your area react to your body? Like the guys you went to school with and then coming up through like high school? I know you went to all-girl high school—

	CH:	Right.



	BH:	But, what was that interaction like?



	CH:	Guys were always you know, trying to say “Hi,” you know you walk on the street and as I say, I used to walk around with a lot of my body out so they used to go, “Hey, you’re looking good,” and I guess as a teenager that made me feel good. But guys always did tell me I look good. Matter of fact, the first time that I met my husband that’s what he said to me, “Hey, I like what I see.”

	BH:	Okay so you spoke of, I guess, like positive attention from men. Was there any negative attention from men?

	CH:	No I don’t think so. Negative, no, not really.



	BH:	There was no catcalling and no “Aye girl come here” like what we have to deal with now?





	CH:	Well I did not look at that as negative attention though. In my head it was because I look good so I always had catcalls but, you see in this day and age, a young girl would look at that as negative. When I was growing up, I thought it was because I look good, because a guy didn’t always call out to a girl that didn’t look good physically.

	BH:	Okay so you think that that’s something different. That’s in our society as opposed to when you were growing up?

	CH:	Yes I think so.



	BH:	Okay and were you always comfortable in your body? I know you mentioned people telling you, “Oh Marie you look nice,” but were you always comfortable with your body?

	CH:	Yes. Even now. I still, even now, with the excess fat on my belly, I still am comfortable in my body. When I get dressed to go out I feel good. I feel like, “Oh my god, she’s pretty.” So I never had self-esteem issues when it came to my body, no.

	BH:	Okay and did you ever compare your body to other girls when you were in high school? So you’ve grown up assured in the way you look that you got the reinforcement from people around you, but when you got to now, your all girls high school, did you ever have any doubts in the way you looked or did you start to compare yourself to other girls?

	CH:	I started having doubts when—because I ended up going because of a government scholarship. I ended up going to an all-girls high school where a lot of the well-to-dos in Jamaica, their kids were at school, too. So when I got there





at some point I started having issues like a lot of girls with long hair and they were able to fix it in different styles where I had, you know, my hair was nappier and I had an afro; a small afro, a short afro.

	BH:	Like mine?



	CH:	Right. So at that point I think I did compare myself. Not my body now, but overall you know the hair, the skin. I had a lot of acne at that point so I was concerned about that. Yeah.

	BH:	Would you say that you felt like you were in control of your sexuality then? Like do you think you were impressionable or you feel like you grew up really assured in your body image and how you felt about your body and then thus your sexuality?

	CH:	Yeah I felt very assured.



BH:  Okay, did the way men perceived you ever change the way you thought about yourself? Like for example if a guy was really forthcoming with telling you that you look nice, did that have bearing on the way you felt about yourself?

	CH:	I think it makes you—in general whenever somebody compliments you, it makes you feel better. It makes you feel good, but my point is that whether at that point, whether somebody complimented me or not I knew I looked good. So it didn’t have a big bearing, but as a person, whenever somebody compliments you it does make you feel good, so yeah.

	BH:	Now you obviously grew up very different form me growing up in Jamaica. You know all the stuff that I’m exposed to now you weren’t exposed to, not only because you were in a different country, but also because it was a completely





different decade. So would you say that Black women’s bodies were viewed differently when you were growing up in the [19]70s as opposed to me now growing up in the 2000s? The attention that Black women get for their bodies?

	CH:	Wow, I don’t know that it’s different. I know that the value system is so different that I see guys—I don’t know to explain it. I mean guys are always gonna be guys, but I think girls now, I think the value system has drastically changed and I think girls dress more provocative now, because as much as I would wear, like say, a little bit of my belly out, now I see girls going to parties where they’re practically naked. So, and that’s something that we would never have done and I think guys do look at that differently.

	BH:	I was more referring to I guess the way the media perceives us. For example, you grew up in a time where like TV and all that stuff wasn’t as popular as it is now. There was no iPad and internet and Instagram and all the social media stuff so the attention that Black women get, for example you know with twerking or everybody wants to get butt implants and everybody wants to—you know for example Tina Fey was talking about she wants to have a Jamaican dance hall butt.

	CH:	Right.



	BH:	I’m talking about the media attention that Black women get for their bodies. Was it the same you would say in your time as it is now?

	CH:	I don’t know. When I was growing up—well as you said there was no media. But now, see, everybody wants to be, I don’t know to explain this, but yeah—I don’t know to explain it. Ask me in a different way.





	BH:	Well I guess you would have to have a reference for more of the discussion that’s going on, and I don’t know if you have that reference. I don’t know if you’re exposed to it.

	CH:	Right.



	BH:	But there’s just a lot of attention that’s being placed now on Black bodies that wasn’t really there before because Black women, like they’ve done social experiments where Black women would wear a certain outfit to a store and they would get all kind of people trying to take pictures of them, trying to touch them on their bodies, whereas a White woman would go into the store and wear the same outfit and not get any of that attention. So there’s this hyper sexuality and this eroticism of Black bodies that I personally think stems from slavery. So off shooting off of that, how much do you know about Black women’s bodies in the context of slavery? Like US chattel slavery?

	CH:	[Mumbling] I don’t know.



	BH:	Of course you know. We talk about this all the time! With the slave masters raping their slaves and—we talk about this stuff all the time.

	CH:	But is that a Black body or is it just a woman?



	BH:	Yes! No, it’s a Black body thing as well because in the same sphere, you have the eroticism of Black men’s bodies, where Black men are supposed to be these hypersexual beasts where, “Oh it’s whole Mandingo” stereotype.

	CH:	Right.



	BH:	“He’s gonna rape you if you around him.” Black men, they’re overly sexual. Their sexual thoughts overwhelm their rationality. So there has always been this like





really high criticism of Black bodies, but for the reference of this project, I’m focusing on women, but, for example for slaves you have where White women, the wives of these slave owners, would be jealous of the Black slaves because their husbands are going off and raping them and having sex with them—

	CH:	Well in that context because the Black women tend to have more hips, more butts, I don’t know about more breasts, but more butts, more hips. We have thicker lips, in that sense yes. Yes I do see where White women would try to enhance the lips to get them fuller and thicker or you know, it’s very rare or when you do see a White lady with wide hips and a big butt you go, “Whoa I never knew,” you know.

	BH:	And why do you think that is? Why are they going through plastic surgery to look like us?

	CH:	Because they feel that—Oh I see. I understand what you’re saying now because in that sense yes, because Black women seem to get a lot of attention because they seem to be built with more hips and more butts, stuff like that?

	BH:	And now why do you feel like that attention is negative? Why now praise us for having this abundance of hips and thighs and butt as opposed to making us feel like circus animals and circus freaks? Like that’s what I’m talking about. Why’s it negative attention?

	CH:	But as you say, I might not see some of it. I don’t know. I really think it has to do sometimes with how people dress. I don’t know.

	BH:	But how do Black women that’s different from how White girls dress? Or White women? How was it different?





	CH:	To be honest, I don’t know if I do see a lot of the negative things when it comes to the bodies. I do see it when girls overdo it and dress in a certain way.

	BH:	Well for example, I think my own personal experiences with that, I used to go to a high school here in the south in Florida where you would have a dress code and if you were not in dress code, you would get in trouble, and I remember one particular morning I had a skirt on and the Dean stopped me and told me my skirt was too short. We did the finger test and that is when you put your whole hand next to your leg, and if the material is not touching your longest finger, which is my middle finger, then you were out of dress code, and there was two cheerleaders and another White student that passed me and her butt was literally hanging out of her clothes, and I remember saying to him, “So you’re gonna stop me because my skirt touches me at my knuckle instead of the tip of my finger, and she just walked passed you and her butt cheeks are literally showing?” and he didn’t say anything to me. He let me walk. He let me go instead of giving me detention for it, and it’s simple things like that where we are always under this viewfinder like, “Look at what she’s wearing. She looks like a hoe, she looks like a slut.” Why is it that Black women get those labels for wearing the same things that their White counterparts wear? So that’s the whole purpose of me trying to figure out, because we do get negative attention. It’s not, “Wow, look she has amazing hips and she has this beautiful butt.” It’s, “Wow, why is it so much? You look like a whore or slut when you wear the same thing that I wear.” But when you moved here from Jamaica, do you remember some of the images that you





were first shown? That you recall seeing about like Black women beauty? Like who was a popular supermodel at the time? Do you remember?

	CH:	When I moved here? Tyra Banks. I always remember Tyra Banks. Thought she was beautiful. Supermodel, I can’t recall a supermodel—

	BH:	What about Jamaican supermodels?



	CH:	Cindy Crawford, which was one of our beauty queens, but she was Caucasian.



She was Caucasian.



	BH:	Jamaican supermodels, mom. CH:	Yeah. Supermodels I can’t— BH:	What about Bob’s wife?

	CH:	I don’t remember them. Her name was Cindy Breakspeare. BH:	What about her?

	CH:	But as I say, she was not Black. She was Caucasian. BH:	So she wasn’t mixed?

	CH:	She was, well mixed, but she looked more Caucasian.



	BH:	But wouldn’t you still classify her as Black though, even though she’s mixed? CH:	Yeah, but you see—

	BH:	Because the island praised her. So therefore they claimed her as their own. They didn’t look at her and say “Oh-“

	CH:	She was Jamaican. We claimed her as our own.



BH:  Exactly, so that’s what I’m saying. Why is it to you now she’s standing out as a White woman when she was very much, I don’t wanna say as Black as you but she—





	CH:	She looked more Caucasian physically. That’s what I’m trying to say. BH:	Do you think that that’s why she became the supermodel of Jamaica?

	CH:	I do think so. I do think so, because it’s very rare that you find somebody who looks more African that gets to the top and becomes “Miss Jamaica” or “Miss World” or “Miss America.” I don’t know why, when they’re just as beautiful, but I don’t know if that has to do with the hair, I don’t know I don’t see a lot of women who look more African.

	BH:	Okay so for example now, what was her body type? Do you remember what she looked like? Did she have big hips and a big—

	CH:	Big hips, yes.



	BH:	So she had a Black body type, but she was more light skin? CH:	Right.

	BH:	Okay. Now I’m not sure if you’re aware, but for example we had a Black Miss Universe. Her name was Leila Lopes, and that was in 2011 or 2012, and there was complete uproar with her because she looked Black. Like she was Black.

	CH:	Right.



	BH:	But she had—you know her hair was a little bit straighter, like I think she had a perm, but she looked Black.

	CH:	And why was there an uproar?



	BH:	Because it was a Black Miss Universe. CH:	Right.

	BH:	So now the same attention that’s happening now with Miss New York that just won Miss USA?





	CH:	Right and the lady?



	BH:	Yes the same type of energy. So, you know if you’re thinking about having a lady that looks like Bob’s wife, who’s lighter skin, then you’re telling the rest of the world that “This is Miss Jamaica. This is the person who we think is the most beautiful in our country.” Do you think that that has effect on the way women look at their selves?

	CH:	Yes. I think it affects—a young Black girl with low self-esteem would get very depressed I think, because the society’s telling them that you need to look more Caucasian to be looked at as beautiful or to get far.

	BH:	Did you ever have that pressure? As far as the color of your skin?



	CH:	A little bit. A little bit at times, but not a lot. Like in my mind sometimes I figured, “Okay, maybe if I was a little lighter skin or had longer hair, I probably would have found a boyfriend,” you know, the pressures you go through when you’re young. Stuff like that, but yeah, a little bit.

	BH:	What do you think Black girls need to be taught about their bodies?



	CH:	They need to be taught that they’re beautiful. Just to appreciate their skin and their bodies. To understand that your body is precious. I don’t know about their bodies, I don’t know. Black girls just need to understand that they need to learn our history.

	BH:	What history are you talking about?



CH:  And understand what used to happen years back with slave women, and what they had to go through, and in that sense understand how far we’ve come and therefore try to have pride and know that they’re beautiful, and no matter what,





whether you have short hair or long hair or you have dreads or you have an afro or you have weave, the point is a girl needs to be proud and I think enjoy to whichever way they feel good about themselves, you know? Like I don’t think she has to have her hair in any one way or—young girls just have to learn to have a lot of pride.

	BH:	In what ways do you think we can teach pride?



	CH:	You can teach pride in that, first of all, I think young girls are going to do better when their value systems change. See I probably have an issue with it because when I grew up in such a different society where a guy liked you and he had to come to your house to visit you and stuff like that. Your parents wouldn’t go to bed. You’d have to say goodnight, where now society’s changed you know? A young girl could go out probably—the value system has just changed I don’t know how to explain it, where a young girl would like for example, when I was growing up, a young man had to come well put together; well dressed. I would never go out with a guy whose pants isn’t well ironed, his shoes wasn’t clean, and you know looking really good. Now, especially with the guys wearing their pants halfway down their butt okay? That I think a lot of young girls should never accept, but because society has accepted that, then that’s okay. I’m thinking girls should—you know girls are accepting that a guy has a girlfriend but guess what? She’s gonna also be his girlfriend because maybe she might not find one, but she’s a little overweight. Girls have to just have values and stick to them I think.





BH:  So you mentioned more than once men not valuing themselves. Do you think that because they don’t value themselves in the way they look that they’re not valuing us and our bodies?

	CH:	I don’t think they don’t value themselves. I think society has just changed where they think looking good is wearing cool pairs of sneakers or cool pair of pants, but the pants has to be halfway down you know? When I look in on it, it looks to me, it looks very bad, but I think the guys think they’re being hip. What I’m saying is that young girls should never accept that. I’m thinking in my mind that doesn’t look good and that the young girl should not accept that.

	BH:	But how does that have a bearing on her and how she feels about her own body?



That’s what I’m saying.



	CH:	Right—



	BH:	How does that connect back to how I’m supposed to feel about my body?



	CH:	Well, that’s a good question. I think sometimes a girl allows herself to go out with a guy because she feels she doesn’t look as good, and so she’ll accept a guy that behaves like that or dresses like that because she feels that’s the best she could get. You know, so she feels that that’s the best she could get, so she allows that—she settles for that as opposed to saying, “Gee, I don’t want a guy whose pants is halfway down, and I want somebody to put himself together well,” but as I said, I think it’s society you know? It’s society.

	BH:	Do you think that girls with strong relationships with their fathers have more assured, not necessarily assured sexualities, but their more sure in how they look?





	CH:	Way more, and I will use you as an example I think. Like you would be able to just say one day you’re wearing a weave, and the next day you will cut your hair off all the way down to zero and still feel beautiful and go out with your confident self just the same way, where so many young ladies could never like say, “Hey I’m gonna cut my hair off and wear it one inch.”

	BH:	But how does that relate to me and my father’s relationship though because you keep bringing up men—

	CH:	Because I feel like having the father in your life has made you understand that it’s not always just totally—like you don’t have to—you have that much confidence that you realize it’s just not your hair alone that makes you beautiful. That’s what I’m trying to say.

	BH:	But how would my relationship with my father teach me that though? Because you keep bringing up men so I want you to tie it into—because I know how I would answer that because I’ve seen the way daddy regards you. Daddy loves you without hair. You like yourself with hair but daddy loves when you had a short haircut. I remember the first I remember seeing you without hair. So I mean in that sense, being in an environment where my father always had respect for you and always valued you, whether or not you looked a certain way would then affect the way I looked at myself. But that’s the way I would answer it so I’m trying to think in your head because you also had your father there your whole life. So how did your relationship with your father affect the way you looked at your body? Like did he ever talk to you and say “Oh—‘Nines, you’re beautiful?”





	CH:	Never. No. As I said, before in the interview, never. I don’t know if he thought about it, but he never. Neither did my mother. It was not the time when we grew up and parents did not talk about stuff like that. “Oh you’re beautiful.” I think life was so hard they were all trying to make ends meet that we knew that we were loved, but nobody ever said, “You’re beautiful.” They bought us nice clothes, but nobody ever said, “Hey you have a beautiful body.” Nothing like that, nothing like that.

	BH:	Do you think that that conversation was even necessary then, because I don’t think you guys had the same societal pressures that we have now. So I don’t think because, whereas I’d be void and would have missed something by not having that with daddy, I don’t think you guys needed that as much as we need it now, because there wasn’t this pressure to be the most beautiful girl on the block.

	CH:	There wasn’t that much pressure.



	BH:	Or, “Oh you got to go on Instagram and post this picture and get X amount of likes.”

	CH:	Exactly because it was such a different time that even—you never even had, you know how on Instagram girls would post a beautiful picture every day? It was such a different society that you never even had that much clothes anyway you know? Never had a camera anyway to take a picture.

	BH:	Now, we talked about daddy and how he values you and how he looks at me and how he’s always told me I was beautiful and always you know, respectful of me. Do you remember your father ever having certain conversations with your





mother? How often did he tell grandma she was beautiful or how often did you see them like, go out and get dressed up?

	CH:	Right I saw them get dressed up and go out, but, I never saw him say, “I love you,” and it was not a touchy feely kind of thing, but they used to get dressed up and go out to parties. I remember that, and I guess they would dance and all that, and I think I wanna say to this day because my mother complains now and I just realized that that he never bought her a card and it’s been fifty years they been together right? He never bought her a card, but on anniversary I guess they would celebrate and cook and all that, but he never bought her a card and stuff like that. I think it makes her feel sometimes less appreciated. Yeah, but no it was a society where we never talked about—parents never told ya, “Hey you’re beautiful.” You know? Stuff like that.

	BH:	So where did you get your main images of beauty? For example, us now we have the internet. We’re flooded with the TV messages and we have body images everywhere to look at. Where did you guys get your like images of beauty from?

	CH:	I think I got it from the people who were well-to-do and upper class in my society, to be honest.

	BH:	Weren’t there any advertisements anywhere?



	CH:	Yeah in the newspaper and we had a couple of magazines, American magazines. We had magazines and we had the newspaper or you know, radio. But, you know I guess my aspiration was because I was so poor I always wanted to be like the people who were better than me. I think that was my motivation.





That was my drive. I wanted to be like that person. I wanted to wear the clothes she was wearing and the jewelry she was wearing you know? So stuff like that.

	BH:	So, was there a lot of representation of Black women in the few sources that you had, or was it more White women?

	CH:	It was more Caucasian-looking women. It was.



	BH:	So there wasn’t a lot of women that looked like you and I?



	CH:	Right, there were, in my society when I was growing up, the people who were—it was more people who were light complexion because in my society, remember we’re all coming all the back from slavery, and so in Jamaica, as much as it wasn’t a serious class system, but most of the people who were doing well, who came from educated family, were people who were lighter complexion and had longer hair, okay? Yeah.

	BH:	Do you know who Sarah Bartmaan is? CH:	Sarah Bartmaan? No.

	BH:	Okay or “Saartje Baartman? Her African name is Saartje. CH:	No.

	BH:	They called her the “Venus Hottentot,” anf she was the women that was taken from Africa to France and put on display because of her hips and her butt?

	CH:	Oh… yes, yes. BH:	You’re familiar? CH:	Kind of, kind of.

	BH:	So do you think knowing her history was painful? Knowing what happened to her do you think that that was painful?





	CH:	Yes. Yes and I vaguely remember it. I vaguely remember it to be honest, but yeah.

	BH:	Do you think now that there’s a lot of modern stuff going on with that with people trying to get like the butt implants and the butt shots and you know taking out ribs to make their waist smaller and stuff like that, do you think people—is there a modern-day Sarah Bartmaan situation happening you think? Because I mean they put her on display in France, and like people came up and would take pictures of her. The French women would make their dresses different to emulate you know her thighs and her hips to make the corsets shorter so they could put parts in to make the dress wider at the top like, do you think that people are still behaving like that, in trying to emulate our bodies?

CH:  I do. I do. I just had an instant where I had a coworker who just had surgery last week to enhance her breasts, to enhance her hips, to get more butt you know? I do. I do think so.

BH:  Why do you think she did that even though she’s Black?



	CH:	I think her self-esteem was low. She’s almost thirty and she feels like she doesn’t look good enough and that’s why she’s married yet.

	BH:	And now with this whole twerking sensation, I know you’re not big on like, you don’t watch a lot of TV when it comes to the foolishness that we watch, but how do you feel about Miley Cyrus twerking on TV?

	CH:	I don’t think it’s appropriate, but my point is, why is it such a big deal? I think it’s something that we’ve been doing for long, long time.





	BH:	Well that’s why it’s a big deal. Because she’s getting credited with making it popular—

	CH:	Which is stupid.



	BH:	That’s why it’s a big deal. CH:	Which is stupid.

	BH:	Because when Black women do it, “Oh she’s a whore, she’s a tramp. That’s what people do in strip clubs,” and now Miley does it on the MTV Awards and everybody’s trying to—

	CH:	And it’s like, “Oh my god, let’s try that.” BH:	Exactly.

	CH:	Well that’s like crazy. I see what you’re saying, but that’s like crazy. That’s nothing new at all.

	BH:	No.



	CH:	That is nothing new at all, because when I first heard and it somebody showed me what it was, I was so laughing because that’s nothing new. I don’t even know where did the name come from? Why did they give it a name like that?

	BH:	I’m not sure why it has a name, but the dance moves, like the way that your hips and butt gyrate through the dance there’s a lot of research going into it now because a lot of Black scholars have a problem with the fact that yet again something of our culture is being commodified and again, as long as we’re not the ones doing it, it’s okay.

	CH:	Right.





	BH:	So I don’t know exactly where the name came from. I know that it’s something that came up—

	CH:	Oh girls who dance in the night clubs that’s all they do.



	BH:	Yeah it’s come up in the last year or two, and now Miley just did it on the MTV Awards about two weeks ago and it’s taking over the world; Miley Cyrus and—

	CH:	Do you feel like it’s her people trying to market her more?



	BH:	Of course, because the thing is Black culture is always popular if it’s not Black people emulating it. You know what I mean? That commodification which is always so popular and Miley Cyrus is going through this thing where she wants to dissociate herself from “Hannah Montana” in the Disney Channel, so now she’s in rap videos with Black rappers and she’s dancing on them like, I mean completely disgusting.

	CH:	Yeah because if let’s say what’s-her-name went on TV and did that, they’d say, “That’s disgraceful.”

	BH:	Who?



	CH:	Any of our young girls I mean, they would say that’s disgusting.



	BH:	Well the perfect example is that Rihanna just came out with a new video for one of her songs and people are saying, “She’s a disgrace” and “She’s a whore,” and she’s literally doing the exact same thing that Miley was just doing on the stage.

	CH:	But who are the people that are saying that?



	BH:	Well just the regular critics. You’re talking about critics that critique videos. You know, music critics.

	CH:	Remember we’re in a society where we are a minority, okay?





	BH:	But you’re talking about a genre where it’s our genre. CH:	It’s ours, yes.

	BH:	It’s not a White genre of music. Hip hop and R&B music is our genre, so you’re talking about Miley Cyrus now trying to appeal to our buyers by being the token White girl who you could take to the party with you and she could dance and stay hip with you. So right now, no, we are not a minority.

	CH:	Right.



	BH:	Because it’s not like we’re in a country club trying to do a country move. Then you’d be a minority. She’s in our field of music and our genre trying to appeal to us so I mean—

	CH:	I totally agree though. If that was a Black girl doing that everybody would be shouting, “Oh my God that looks bad,” “she’s low,” “she’s a slut.” I totally agree with that, but it’s something we’ve had to live with for so many years though. So many things like that.

	BH:	But does that make it okay though just because—



	CH:	It’s not okay. It is not okay, because it means that everybody/s not being treated on a level playing field you know what I mean? It’s not coming from the same— everybody doesn’t have the same what? Starting point? I don’t know, yeah, but twerking is nothing new. I don’t know where they got the name from, but that’s something that’s been going on for so many years just like—I forgot what the dance was the other day. I forgot what word you used to use.

	BH:	Me?





	CH:	Yeah and I kept telling you, “That’s not a new one.” We used to go to parties— what you were talking—was it whining or something?

	BH:	What the Dutty Wine or something?



	CH:	You know but that’s things that we’ve been doing since we were young. BH:	You know what I do wanna ask you? You know how we were growing up,

especially with Jamaican family, like if you’re too skinny they’re always saying, “You don’t eat enough?”

	CH:	Yes.



	BH:	Well why do you feel like Caribbean people have this assumption like if you’re a smaller person you don’t eat enough and they always wanna—like what’s that about?

	CH:	All right we grew up in an age where our parents I think every single thing that we do stems from slavery. Everything, and so we grew up in an age where there was not—when I was growing up, we were so poor. I keep saying it because I’m proud of where I’m now, because I keep remembering where I came from, and because you have nothing to compare it to. That’s why I talk about it all the time, because I want you to know, but when we were growing up we never had much to eat so a lot of people were skinny. So you were looked at as poor if your kids were too skinny. You know what I mean? We never had a lot of food. So, they want you to eat. Whatever they give you eat it up, eat it up you know, and so if they want you to look—it was society saying in Jamaica, society think you’re okay, you’re doing well if you have some meat on your body, okay? Girls now





that are this skinny? A guy when I was growing up would never want a girlfriend that was too skinny.

	BH:	So bigger women were—



	CH:	Yeah you had to have the hips… you know? You had to have the hips, and you had to look well. If you were like my sister, your aunt right? Anne? They used to call her, her nickname was “magga,” which was the Jamaican word for “skinny/ bones.” That was her nickname because she was so skinny, and nobody wanted a “Magga Woman.” Okay? But it all stemmed from slavery and us not having enough to eat.

	BH:	So then in Jamaica then your body type was directly linked to a socioeconomic status?

	CH:	Exactly.



	BH:	Whereas we don’t really have that now.



	CH:	No right now, when a girl is skinny, nobody can determine whether it’s money or the person’s just taking care of her body and she’s slim, or she did not have enough to eat. Back then if you were too skinny it was, “Oh my God the parents don’t have enough food.” See?

	BH:	But you were slim though. Pictures of you— CH:	But I wasn’t skinny.

	BH:	Okay. So there was a difference between slim and skinny.



	CH:	I was slim, right. I had thighs. I had a nice butt. I was well proportioned. BH:	You had no waist whatsoever.

	CH:	I wasn’t skinny, skinny.





	BH:	Okay.



	CH:	Okay but I think because our parents even as poor as I was, my parents grew up much poorer. They gave us a better life as poor as we were. So I think they want us to eat and they say, “Eat it up, eat it up,” because they had it worse than we had. They had it way worse than we had, you know? But I think everything, most of the stuff that happened in our lives stemmed from slavery.

	BH:	Now, for example we have labels such as, “Oh she’s thick.” Do you know what that means when somebody says somebody’s “thick?”

	CH:	No I don’t.



	BH:	Well nowadays that’s a huge term. If somebody says you’re thick it’s like, “Oh wow, she has a big butt” or “she has nice thighs.” Guys wanna say, “Oh you have a nice body” they be like “Damn she’s thick.”

	CH:	Right.



	BH:	Like was there any—do you remember any significant terms like—you know how they say “slimmers” and they say like certain words. Do you remember some of the labels that they used to have for girls when you were growing up?

	CH:	Well “magga” was one. If you looked good there was a [Inaudible 44:05] BH:	[Inaudible at 44:07]

	CH:	Right. Tallawah was like, “Gee, you’re doing good. You’re saying something.” Or, [Inaudible 44:16] If somebody said [Inaudible 44:19] it means that she looks really good.

	BH:	Yeah.





	CH:	You know, stuff like that, but if they ever say, “Boy a little [Inaudible 44:29]” it mean that you don’t look good, that you come from the lower class. You know stuff like that.

	BH:	Or like a [Inaudible 44:35] right? CH:	Yes.

	BH:	Which is like—



	CH:	Which is like “Wow, you really not in my class.”



	BH:	Is it a class thing or was it more like, “Oh she’s sexually active.” Like, “That’s a girl that sleep with people.”

	CH:	No, no, scatel and zuttapek meant that you were not “my type,” “I’m better than you.” Okay? In terms of girls who would sleep around, we would say, um—I’m trying to remember a word, as we go along I probably will remember a word that relates to that.

	BH:	What were some of the stereotypes that were associated specifically with your body type when you were growing up? Like you know how today if we see a skinny woman like, “Dang is she on drugs or like why she so skinny?” Or you know if a girl is more robust now, they’re like, “Oh she has to be a stripper. She got the body of a stripper” when she could have been born that way. Like, what kind of stereotypes do you think are associated with body types now or then?

	CH:	But most people when they see somebody who is really over weight, who is obese, instead of thinking—people don’t usually think “illness,” people usually think “greedy,” and I think in both times both now and then, your first instinct without thinking that that person might be ill, without thinking it’s hereditary, you





know, your first thing is, “That person eat too much.” Especially if you see that fat person going into an eating place or stopping at McDonalds. Or if I see somebody now that is really, really skinny, especially a girl, if she’s really, really skinny my first thought is anorexia. Okay? Back then my first thought would be “don’t have enough to eat” or you know, while back then if somebody was really overweight—I don’t think I had the word “anorexia” then in my society growing up, we never even had that, you know? We never knew anybody who would do that. We never had eating disorders. It was never heard of. I never heard that until I came to this country.

	BH:	Okay.



	CH:	I mean you know, we never had anybody who had stuff like that going on. It was just never heard of.

	BH:	What do you think are some of the negative stereotypes that are associated with Black women now?

	CH:	Now? Some of the negative stereotypes that are associated with Black women.



In terms of their body or in general?



	BH:	Well me personally, I feel like they go hand-in-hand. I think a lot of the stereotypes we have against us are because of how we look or how we dress. Things that we cannot control.

	CH:	Yeah. A lot of stereotypes. I think society thinks that a lot of people in society think that Black women are lazy, which is so far from the truth.

	BH:	Body-wise? If you were thinking about stereotypes on how somebody look? Like if you saw a Black girl in a tight dress what would you think?





CH:  I would think, depending how tight it is, if it’s super tight, I would think that’s not appropriate, it doesn’t look good. Especially if I saw a fat girl in a tight dress. To be honest my first instinct is, “Oh my God, she should never have left the house like that. She’s looking for somebody.” Or she’s gonna cause somebody to rape her.

BH:  Just because of how she’s dressed mommy?



CH: Because I’m saying—because if somebody’s really, really obese and they’re wearing these really, really tight dress my first instinct is yes, inappropriate. I think it’s inappropriate.

BH:  Well I wasn’t talking about the inappropriate part, I was talking about the rape part. Just because she has on a short dress doesn’t mean you go rape her.

	CH:	No I probably explained it to you in not in a proper way, but meaning that it’s difficult—you dress that way, you kind of, what you call it now, ask, not ask but allow negative attention.

	BH:	Do you think that—why do you feel like we are under more scrutiny when it comes to our image than our White counterparts? Why is there so much attention on how we dress and how we color our hair and want to—why is there so much attention on our bodies as a whole for everyone else?

	CH:	I think it’s just the media. It’s not a Black media. I think because it’s not Black media, because but I mean, I think it’s the media because I can tell you why.

	BH:	What about Black bodies in the music videos? Why are only that the girls with the biggest boobs and the biggest butts in the music videos? Why are there not slim girls?





	CH:	Because society says that in this day and age, everybody’s looking at TV and the social media, and society says that big boobs and big butt is what’s going.

	BH:	So why do you feel that that’s more socially acceptable now than someone who’s slim, when in your time slim was okay. Why is it that you have to be robust to be in the in-and-out of the cut of society?

	CH:	I don’t know. I don’t know that I have the answer to that.



	BH:	Well it’s not that you have to have the answer to it. I’m just saying what do you think? Why is it that—for me I’m a slim person. I’m like one twenty on a good day. I don’t have huge butt; I don’t have a huge anything. I’m a really small person. I’m like 5’1”. Some guys I would talk to would say, “Wow, Brittany has a great body.” My [Inaudible 50:29] love to tell me I have a great body, where as some people would be like, “Oh, she’s small. She has no butt, no butt nothing” and would not find me attractive. I find me attractive, but why wouldn’t I be attractive to the majority of our culture?

	CH:	Because—I don’t think not to the majority of culture, I don’t think so. I don’t think you went to the majority of your culture, wow. Majority of our culture, I don’t know. I look at it in a different way because I think majority of the culture now wants people to be slim, don’t they?

	BH:	I wouldn’t agree with that. CH:	No?

	BH:	No.



	CH:	I see majority of the culture saying that you can’t have any bulge—





	BH:	Well we’re not talking about a bulge though. That’s different from having a big butt. You can have a flat stomach and have the hugest butt ever. You can have the flattest stomach and have thirty-six double D breasts and no stomach and then a huge butt and huge thighs and guys are like, “whoa” like, “that’s hot” and it’s just like, I think with the emergence of music videos and all these different forms of media that did not exist even ten years ago, you know there’s just like so much more avenues that people take to put body image under scrutiny. You know what I mean? Like I know people that if they don’t get certain amount of likes on their pictures on Facebook or Instagram will delete them, because there’s no reason for them to have it up if a lot of people don’t like it. Like foolishness like that.

	CH:	But that’s a self-esteem thing though for that person.



	BH:	But that’s what I’m asking you. How does the media affect self-esteem in the way we look at our bodies?

	CH:	It affects it in a big way. The media is determining how a young girl look at herself. The media is saying “Gee, you need to have hips, you need to have breasts, you can’t be too overweight and you gotta have hair.” That’s what the media’s saying from what I see.

	BH:	Do you think the media is more critical of Black girls than it is of White young girls?

	CH:	I think so. I think so.



	BH:	Do you know—why do you think that is?



	CH:	That’s what I’m trying to figure out. I don’t know why.





	BH:	Because I mean the CEOs for example, you have a White CEO of Essence Magazine. You’re talking about a Black magazine that their CEO’s White. So, when you look at situations like that where you might have a Black hair company and the CEO is White, that CEO is controlling the images that we’re getting from that Black hair company. So when you look at situations like that, for me anyway, I’m like, “Well that’s directly how you control my image.” The packaging on your hair products, how I’m supposed to carry my hair, who are you featuring? Does she look like me? Does she have kinky hair like me or is she lighter skin with a perm?

	CH:	Well I worry about that even when I look at HSN for example because you know I like to look at HSN, but if they’re selling some makeup that I might think I might be interested in, my first thought is always, “Gee, I wonder if that would work on—what would they know about Black skin?” You know? Do they have colors for Black people, you know? I do.

	BH:	You know in closing, the history of Black bodies in this country has always been to—we have always been items and objects, and in slavery times, they used to use medicine to try to label us as “abnormal” as to why we’re inferior to White people, and I feel as though that that has directly influenced the way we operate now as to how we dress, how we wanna look. It has influenced everything.

	CH:	Right. Because on a whole, it’s engrained in people’s psyche. I think it does come from slavery where some Black people feel like they are inferior, and that they have to match up to what society think is okay.





	BH:	I mean for the sake of this project I hope to just look at the ways that we as young Black women and older Black women look at their bodies and where’re we getting our messages from, and what type of stereotypes are we associating with ourselves or putting on our fellow Black women because of what we’ve been taught about our bodies? I know for me I’ve always been in an environment in the house where I was always confident about myself. I know when my acne started to act up it was really hard for me, especially in junior high school.

	CH:	Right.



	BH:	I was completely picked on throughout junior high school, especially in the beginning of high school. Very, very rough years for me, but as far as my body, like I never thought I was overweight. I wasn’t ever a “fat child,” I wasn’t a child that couldn’t wear certain things because they couldn’t find my size. I was never—well I joke now that I would get breast implants, but I highly doubt it because me, I’m just really comfortable. I guess it’s something that you look at like if you had to recreate your whole body again, you know, I guess, I mean, I love my waist and I love the lower half of my body. It’s like my power center, but I feel like sometimes I wouldn’t mind having a bigger chest, but, like I don’t have— you know there’s some people who have serious issues with their bodies. You know the body dysmorphia.

	CH:	Right, and I wouldn’t mind. I think I’m also the kind of mother that if you said to me you were going to have breast implants, I wouldn’t say no, because I think— unlike how I grew up, I think I’m the kind of mother who would sit and see why





you wanted it, and because I know you’re very confident and I don’t think it’s your self-esteem per se, although in a way it is.

	BH:	It’s not really self-esteem. It’s just more so like you wanted—you see some stuff about yourself that you would change.

	CH:	Exactly. But, then again, I would ask you about why would you want to change it?



	BH:	Well I mean because—I mean it’s just nice sometimes. You put on certain dresses, like I’ll put them on—

	CH:	And it makes you feel sexier right?



	BH:	Well not even sexier. Just like the boob part of the dress is like, I don’t fill it out as properly, and then you have to go buy certain bras to make sure you fill out that part of the dress properly. The rest of the dress would be bangin’ like, it will fit tight everywhere and be perfect everywhere else and then—I mean but that’s a good point you made with women and their mothers. Me growing up with you, you were always so sure of yourself. I’ve never—you would always be like “I wanna lose a little bit here,” but then when you get dressed up like you have this air about you.

	CH:	Why I wanna also say that a part of my self-confidence in a big part has to do with the fact that Michael’s always been there to support me. I really do believe because I have him beside me, and because of the way he makes me feel, and he always say, “I love you,” and he always tells me I’m beautiful even when he’s trying to tell me that it’s time to start losing some weight. He would say, “The mid- section’s getting a little big, let’s start doing something,” or whatever, but he always made me feel beautiful, and I think because he’s always made me feel so





beautiful, that my self-confidence is reinforced. It makes me feel stronger. See? So I do believe that.

	BH:	So there’s that point again I really— CH:	Where the men in my life, yeah— BH:	It has to be men.

	CH:	Yeah.



	BH:	Because my father was always so pivotal and my dad was always my first valentine. He said to me, he said, “Your dad is always gonna be your number one valentine.” Daddy would take me—we might go to lunch or he might get me a valentines gift every year and tells me he loves me and how much he loves me and proud of me and having a father that implores upon his daughter how beautiful she is—

	CH:	It makes you feel like you don’t have to have guys to give you the “okay.”



	BH:	It’s not even just that. It’s just that, remember that the men we look at, we directly look for our fathers in our potential suitors. So when you have a man like my dad who puts you, you’re like his queen, and he’s always bragging about you, you’re his right hand, he treats you like a queen. He thus treats me like a queen, and then it’s like, “Well damn—“

	CH:	That’s where my confidence comes from. BH:	I think honestly.

	CH:	That’s where my confidence comes from. BH:	I think it’s a very—





	CH:	Not all of it, because I’m a strong woman, but it enhances it, makes me stronger, and therefore the strong woman that you’re seeing I think has to do a lot with how Michael treats me.

	BH:	Who taught you how to be a strong woman? Like where was that from?



	CH:	I think adversity has made me strong. My mother. I should put it this way, that even though my dad was always there, my strength, my strength, my inner strength has come from watching my mother struggle and wanting more for us. That’s mainly where my strength comes from, and even now, as I told you with the diabetes, when I look and realize that she probably can’t eat as well as she would want to and when I see that she takes care of her diabetes so much better than me, that’s what motivated me to take care of myself to the point where I’m taking it. Because I’m going, “Oh she’s there, and she’s always so positive, and she’s walking, and she’s doing her meals. Why can’t I if I have more resources?” My strength comes from her. That part of me; the inner strength.

	BH:	So we can say then in closing that images of our bodies and where we get them from directly come from our home environments and how they’re reinforced to us by the men in our life? I think that we can fairly say that because it doesn’t matter what kind of image I have of myself, whatever others reinforce, and make it a business to make sure I am conscious of, I think has a really big bearing on the way I look at myself.

CH:  That’s true. You put it in a nice way, because I only became aware that I had a nice figure because guys kept saying—not guys, but people kept saying, “Gee, you have a beautiful body.”





	BH:	Because I’m sure you thought you were beautiful when you looked in the mirror, but then you have all these people just like—because I’ve seen pictures of you when you were younger.

	CH:	And then I realized I do have a beautiful body when I realized what a beautiful body was supposed to be—the dimensions, you know what I mean? So it has a bearing on what people think and what people say.

	BH:	I know you weren’t in a lot of serious relationships when you were younger, but were the other men in your life as supportive as daddy when it comes to the way you look?

	CH:	I wouldn’t say supportive. They would say “as beautiful,” but I don’t know supportive in that way.

	BH:	So they weren’t like daddy where constantly reminding you that you were pretty like—

	CH:	No.



	BH:	They weren’t like that at all? CH:	No, no. Definitely not.

	BH:	Well, I just want to say thank you first of all for sitting down and taking and hour and talking to me about body image, because I mean we talk a lot, but for the sake of the interview, the way it was structured, I think we hit a lot of good points that you never really brought up before with me, which is cool.

	CH:	Right.



	BH:	So now I’m able to use this information, write a powerful thesis and get and A on it, which is great.





	CH:	Well I hope I was helpful. I don’t know— BH:	You were!

	CH:	I don’t know that I gave you what you wanted. I tried to—



	BH:	We haven’t ever sat down and had a conversation looking at where you got your images of beauty from and where I get mine.

	CH:	Right.



	BH:	Because we lived in two completely different countries and different decades. CH:	Right.

	BH:	So, the support that I get in my home is very different from the support that you got, and I think it’s the first time we actually sat down and looked at that like “Well why do you think you’re beautiful? Who told you you’re beautiful?” and like you know we never really sat down and thought about it like that so—

	CH:	There’s one little part that I want to mention. BH:	What?

	CH:	That when I was growing up, how girls never ever shaved their legs, and guys thought it was so beautiful.

	BH:	That is disgusting.



	CH:	Where I grew up, guys thought the hair on your legs and with your stocking over it looked so good, and when I was growing up we never shaved our legs at all. Not until I came to this country did I ever see anybody shave their legs.

	BH:	That is mommy, that’s disgusting. CH:	It was a norm in my society.

	BH:	But you know what the thing is, too?





	CH:	And it was beautiful to see hair on people’s legs.



	BH:	Remember—oh my God, mommy, do you remember the first time I shaved my legs? I was watching, what’s that girl? She had ginger hair, was a cartoon on Nickelodeon and I was watching it and I remember she shaved her legs because she was in gym class and she like took one of her mom’s razors to class and shaved up her legs, and she came home and she thought her mom was gonna be upset because her friend’s mom was upset? And her mom wasn’t upset at all and let her take control of her image? I remember. I came home and like took one of your razors and shaved my legs and you were like, “Brittany what are you doing?” and I was like, “I’m shaving my legs,” and you were like, “Why?” And I was like, “I saw it on TV.” You were like, “Oh okay,” like you never were really angry about me with shaving my legs, but I remember my grandparents were very upset that I had shaved my legs. Even now grandma’s upset with that.

	CH:	Because we—how we grew up in our society, it’s just now in Jamaica because everything is getting Americanized.

	BH:	But grandma tells me I’m not gonna get married because I keep shaving my legs.



I don’t know if you know this. She keeps telling me that.



CH:  I don’t know if she says that, but shaving our legs, as a matter of fact I never recalled seeing anybody shave their armpits.

BH:  This is the thing with hair though, if you don’t cut it, it doesn’t grow back thick. Especially with the hairs on your leg or whatever? The more you cut it. It’s the thicker it comes back and you have to keep cutting it.

CH:  Right, but we never shaved so it was the same way all the time.





	BH:	Yes so it probably wasn’t as thick and as dense as now when we don’t shave our arms it looks horrendous.

	CH:	So I just wanted to add that I grew up in a total different society.



	BH:	Well I mean I think that’s really cool and is something we should definitely talk about more. Especially, I’d love to talk to grandma about her societal images of beauty and what she thought was beautiful because when you look at where we get our images of beauty from, and who gives us these images and how they’re shown to us and then how we perpetuate them is very, very important.

	CH:	Very, very, very, very important.



	BH:	Because my images of beauty in here like, even the paintings you have in here, it’s all robust Black women. Like even this painting behind you is by Ernie Barnes, and like it’s the Sugar Shack, it’s somewhere in the South I’m assuming. All the women have huge butts and huge hips and they look happy and they look so celebratory and they feel so proud the way they look. In our house it’s images of Black beauty everywhere. It’s a lot of like Afro-centric art and stuff and you were always so positive with me and the way I look like. I really feel like it’s where you grow up and how you grow up that really influences the way that you think about yourself.

	CH:	It does in every aspect of life. It does.



	BH:	Well I know mom, I know you’re busy so I’ma let you go. So thank you very much, and again it’s now 11:11. It’s October 6th, a Sunday, and we’re finished with our interview. Oh, and we’re in Mount Dora, Florida, just for location





purposes and we’re sitting in our living room, and mommy’s about to go cook, but thank you mom.

	CH:	Thank you, you’re welcome. BH:	Bye.

	CH:	I hope you get an A. BH:	[Laughter]

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Sandra Romero



	Audit Edited by:	Holland Hall, February 9, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 24, 2019