AAHP 117; Moore; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 117 Edwina Moore

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Marna Weston on August 21, 2010

43 minutes | 22 pages



Abstract: Edwina Moore grew up in Perry, Florida, in Lee Cypress Quarters, and in seventh grade attended Boylan Haven boarding school in Jacksonville. She describes life in the quarters growing up, and eating a considerable amount of wild game. She also describes some of her family history, and then describes some of the different Black neighborhoods in Perry. After graduating high school, she attended Florida A&M University and became involved in the Civil Rights Movement there. She concludes with some reflections about her mother and about the change she’s seen in the sense of community in Perry.





Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School; Civil Rights Movement]



Standards

	SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

	SS.912.A.7.5 Civil rights tactics

































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 117

Interviewee: Edwina Moore Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: August 21, 2010



	W:	This is Marna Weston on August 21, 2010 at the Jerkins Community Center in Perry, Florida at the Jerkins Historic Marker dedication and high school reunion with Edwina Moore, the MC of the occasion. Thank you for taking the opportunity to speak with me.

	M:	It’s my pleasure.



	W:	So please tell me your date and place of birth.



	M:	I was born in Lee Cypress Quarters October 20, 1945 here in Perry.



	W:	Okay, now Lee Cypress Quarters; I’m not familiar with the area, and probably our listeners might not know. Could you narrow that down for us?

	M:	Sure, Perry is a mill town, or was very much so when I was a little kid and Lee Cypress was the largest sawmill in the county and they had an area down, let’s say west of downtown far west of downtown and everybody who worked at the mill could get housing within that vicinity and my father worked for some of the owners of the mill. I don’t ever remember him going to work but he used to take them hunting every fall and they would go and they would stay out in the woods for weeks on end and then they would come back with wild turkey and twelve point bucks and we’d have venison and all that kind of stuff. I don’t eat that today, but back then that was that so we lived in one of the largest houses down in the quarters probably because of my father’s connection with them. I was an only child my mother is one of the pictures up on that wall, Jonnie Moore, she taught in Perry for forty three years, generations in families so that’s my background.

	W:	Okay what’s your dad’s name?





	M:	My dad was George Washington Moore and he—I don’t know a whole lot, he’s from North Carolina, the Wilmington area and he came down here, he was a woodsman, a hunter. He was one half Native American Cherokee and he loved the woods and that’s what he did most of the time but he did take care of the houses on our side of the quarters and for the mill.

	W:	Now what do you know about his mom and dad? M:	Nothing.

	W:	Okay how about your mother’s mom and dad?



	M:	Oh, my mother’s father died when she was thirteen so I never met him but my grandmother I lived with.

	W:	And what were their names?



	M:	My grandfather was Charles Albert Hood from I believe the Savannah area no, he was from Atlanta my grandmother was from the islands off of Charleston I believe. Her maiden name was Var, Sarah Jane Var Hood. My grandfather was Charles Albert Hood.

	W:	Do you know anything about your grandmother’s parents? M:	Nothing.

	W:	Okay, so everything stops with the grandparents. M:	Yes.

	W:	Okay, now when you were on stage this afternoon, you were getting some hollabacks about different colloquial names of the areas around here so, could you tell me a little about those enclaves within Perry, you know kinda where they





are from here or a little bit about their character with the different names of the places that were talked about.

	M:	Okay well the quarters is no longer in existence. They tore down all of the houses and just kinda of closed it down. I don’t know why, I wasn’t here I was gone for almost forty years so that happened while I was away. Actually though, I’m just thinking about this, my mother when I was at school at A&M my mother said “I’m gonna build a house”, and I said “Okay”. She said “Come home, see it”. I said “Okay,” so I come. My mother’s got one of these houses out of the quarters. It’s like something out of The Color Purple, remember the house in The Color Purple? It was just frame, no paint no nothing. And so she has this, she has this on these lots and I’m going “My mother has lost her mind”. She said “No no no!

I’m gonna rehab it, I’m gonna brick it, I’m gonna do this, I’m gonna do that, I’m gonna do the other” and she did and I live in that house now. And after my mother passed, I found a piece of paper because my mother said the reason she wanted me to come home was so I could tell her what we were gonna do with it so before I left she says “Draw out where the rooms are gonna go.” I said “What?” she said “You know, draw it out,” and she gave me a sheet of typing paper and so I put the bedrooms where—I know nothing about that kind of thing, you know? But I did it and I found it and it’s exactly what she did, so I’m in my own house and it’s a house from the quarters and I was born in our house down there.

	W:	So to come back from that sedge way to the different areas, what do you know about these other areas?





	M:	Okay, so—



	W:	The East Perry, the Colored Town.



	M:	Okay, East Perry is on the other side of Uptown, our downtown area. Okay, East Perry is over there, Colored Town is over there and Brooklyn is over on this side and Brooklyn was the largest area, largest Black area, and then the Quarters I guess came next in size but there’s also Interstate and—

	W:	Now why is it called Interstate? M:	I have no idea.

	W:	Because it’s not close to the interstate.



	M:	No, nothing in Perry is close to the interstate, nothing! [Laughter] Nothing at all. No I have no idea why it’s called that. And you know, I was here, I mean I was born here and I lived here until I was in fourth grade, I went away to school in fourth grade. I went to New York to live with an aunt and uncle and a little cousin and I was in school at P.S. 90 in Harlem and then in seventh grade I went to boarding school in Jacksonville. Boylan Haven, all girls, predominantly White staff but all Black students.

	W:	Okay I have to stop you there. M:	Okay.

W:  Just to talk about this whole phenomenon. Now all Black girls boarding school in Jacksonville. What was that like?

M:   It was very different. It was different because I had no former knowledge of it and it seemed weird I’m going like “Have I been sent to reformatory school? What did I do?” You know? But it was a wonderful experience and I’m still meeting people





from that experience now. I went to A&M as I said earlier, and there was one young lady, we’d been friends we were kind of in the same circle you know, particularly after college.

	W:	Okay and what was her name?



	M:	Penny, I don’t remember her maiden name but her married name is Kinsey. Penny Kinsey. And I don’t know why it came up but I said something and she said “What do you know about Boylan Haven?” I said “I was at Boylan Haven” she said “You were?” she said “I don’t remember an Edwina” I said “Do you remember Helen Moore?” she said “Yeah I know Helen Moore,” I said “Hi”. [Laughter]

	M:	Well at Boylan Haven they called me Helen. And I’m still in touch with several of the girls that were there. It was a wonderful experience actually. People came from all over this country. There were maybe two hundred students who lived on campus boarding and then there was maybe another two hundred or so that came from the city every day.

	W:	What is the history and tradition of the school, I’ve never heard of it before.



	M:	Well I don’t know all that I can tell you about that. It lasted—I was in the final stage of it, and I was there in the mid-[19]50s and when I finished eighth grade it moved or merged with Mather Academy in I think South Carolina and so that was kind of the end of Boylan Haven.

	W:	So the school left the area?



	M:	The school left the area yeah, yeah.





	W:	Because it sounds like something you know like Mary McLeod Bethune where we would know more about the history of that school.

	M:	You know I’ve gotta go online. I’ve thought about that actually this morning I said “You know there’s so much about Boylan Haven that I really don’t know” because I was a kid I was nine, ten years old. We had duty work, we had to clean that building every day and every little girl had steps or walkway or something to do every day before we went to class and we did it and we lived together we got along. When I first got there I was so young. I was in what’s called the baby dormitory and so I had fifteen other roommates. We were all in bunk beds and stuff but you know it was a wonderful experience. It was challenging because you know when you’re little you’re kinda scared when you’re not with mom. But it was good.

	W:	Well how long were you there and where did you go after you left there?



M:   I was there for two years. When they moved to South Carolina I came back here to school and so I was here in ninth grade. In tenth grade I went to Northwestern in Miami, in eleventh I was here, and in twelfth grade I graduated from Stanton in Jacksonville.

	W:	Okay well Stanton, another good school. M:	Absolutely.

	W:	What was it like going to Stanton High School? M:	It was great. It was great.

	W:	Oh pardon me Stanton Academy.





M:  Oh is that what it is now? Okay it was great. I was at New Stanton and it was a wonderful situation. I lived with one of my mother’s friends from college and her family and I had a great great time. It was good.

	W:	How did you end up going to so many schools within that period of years from sixth grade to high school?

	M:	Well actually from fourth grade through. Well my mom had a vision and you didn’t mess with my mom’s vision. She had it and she saw it through. And my mom wanted experiences for me that she thought I could not get here; art, music, on and on and on. And all of the places that she sent me just furthered that. I played piano. I played piano from the time that I was six until I was eighteen, I mean studying it. And art and just the ability to be able to go to a museum or to see someone perform, was what she wanted for me. She wanted me to have experiences that she didn’t have. And so that’s why I moved around so much.

	W:	What was Miami Northwestern like in tenth grade?



	M:	Actually it was a very good school at that time. The whole area around Northwestern now has changed and gone downhill, so.

	W:	They’re still good in football though. [Laughter]



	M:	Hey and what else is there in the South? That is all there is in the South. It was a good experience for me but you know because I was changing schools every year, there was always that period of adjustment you know? But it worked out. I got to the place where I was kinda comfortable with it. I was kinda like an army brat. You just go, and you find your way. And so that’s what I did.





W:  So you leave high school, first before you leave, you told me about the arts and about different experiences, were you involved in any clubs or specific activities at the different schools?

	M:	Well here I was involved in cheerleading and glee club. In Miami I don’t remember then. I was involved more in French class and all of that kind of stuff and I did a lot of that but I don’t remember, I didn’t get involved in the athletic program in any way. So I was just kind of a student there. I did a little bit more at Stanton and—wait you know I think as I’m talking about this I’m thinking there’s a continuity in high school you know? And I think I missed that because I was changing all the time.

	W:	Yeah you never became one of the older kids, you were always the new kid. M:	Exactly, exactly.

	W:	So that was your continuity, you were the new kid.



	M:	Right. [Laughs] Nobody knew the continuity but me but yeah, okay, yeah. So, I’m trying to think it’s been so long like I said sixty five this year so I don’t remember a whole bunch. I was always very active, always in some things: student council, honor society. You know I did well to move around as much as I did but that’s it. That’s about it I can’t think of anything more about it.

	W:	Okay well you left high school and then you went to college.



	M:	I went to college. I went to A&M. I was Ms. Freshman in 1962 and I was in theater. My degree is in speech and drama and I got a double major in English.

	W:	See I knew that’s what it was. Forensics. M:	[Laugher] Yeah, so—.





	W:	Did you compete at all, in forensics? The public speaking debate?



	M:	Not in debate. I was more interested in the theatrical side of it. So I participated in first choir and I did a lot of plays. The biggest one I did was Purlie Victorious and I played “Lutiebelle”. So that was very very successful and after that I tried a career in acting but after, I had done television news. So that’s the next big step. After I graduated from A&M I went to Miami and I tried teaching and I quit the third period of my first day. I just couldn’t do it. And so then it was about finding something else. Well, ultimately a year and a half later I tried social work, I went back into the classroom and I was there for maybe two years and then I got the opportunity to go on the air. A friend of mine, this is 1970.

	W:	In Miami?



	M:	In Miami.



	W:	Channel 10?



	M:	Channel 10, you know it! Absolutely, channel 10! And I went down and I interviewed and they said “Okay, come back we’ll put you on camera and we’ll see.” And they liked me and so they said “Well, don’t quit your job. Just come. We’ll wait, you come and work for us in the summer.”

	W:	Do features?



	M:	I was general assignment. They just put me with another reporter. I saw what those people did, and then I was on my own. But they told me not to quit because I would have gotten tenure. That next year would have been my third year. And they said “If it doesn’t work out for us, then you won’t lose anything,” you know? So I went in and told them the next day. “I’m going to TV,” because I





did not intend for channel 10 not to hire me and I was there for two years. I was anchoring weekends within a year and then a news director from WBBM in Chicago was I town on a training program with his wife I think, and it was just channel hopping, and he saw me. And a couple of days later—.

	W:	What was this person’s name?



	M:	No idea. No idea at this point. I could probably find it but I have no idea right now; recall. And he said—they offered me the job up there at least to interview me.

And so I went up. I did some stories for them, they decided that they liked my work and so I went to Chicago in [19]72 and I was there until maybe [19]76. I did not like Chicago.

	W:	Too cold?



	M:	It was way—



	W:	My brother lives there now I don’t know how he does it. I’m still trying to figure it out. I mean I go there in May and it’s too cold.

	M:	Absolutely! Absolutely! I went to a football game, pre-season football game in July in Soldier Field and I thought “I’m gonna have frostbite,” I don’t know how they do it either. I couldn’t wait to get out of there and when I left there, I went to San Francisco without a job.

	W:	Another cold place. M:	No. It’s just cool.

	W:	Well.



	M:	It’s just cool. It’s not cold there I love San Francisco and I love the weather. I know what you’re talking about. There is an adjustment.





	W:	When the sun goes down.



	M:	Yeah, and summers. Summers are very cold there because of the fog. But once the fog lifts, like September, October? [Gasps] It’s Heaven. Absolutely.

	W:	I’ll have to take your word for it I’ve never been there long enough to know. But before we do San Francisco I wanna back up about ten years a little bit and go back to Tallahassee. Being a freshman in 1962, Tallahassee was a very volatile place there in the [19]60s—

	M:	Oh and I went to jail two times.



	W:	So you know Patricia and Priscilla Stevens and John Dew and all then? M:	Mmhm. Mmhm.

	W:	Okay great, can you give me a sense of those times from your perspective?



	M:	Well, I can but I have to say that I was not that aware. What brought me in to it all was a freshman boyfriend who was very active and you know wanted—he said “You gotta go, we gotta march we gotta do,” no. Because I was from Taylor County, and you just didn’t mess around you know?

	W:	People taking pictures and all those pictures are still in the state archives.



	M:	And I remember my mother saying to me after I’d gone to jail she said “You know I have to live here. It’s one thing for you up there at the university but I have to live here,” and I realized that but I did go back to jail the second time. So it was, it was exciting but it was totally as I remember it now, school was one thing, and this was something else.

	W:	Yeah the president was not in favor of this stuff.





	M:	Right, and so you did the school—it didn’t take over your life I mean, they were compartmentalized. And I remember the first time that we were going to jail and I was walking with my friend up front in the group and when we left we had a little speech in the jangle and everything and we were trying to get people to come with us and people were going “Eh.”

	W:	Were FSU students with you too or was it just FAMU students?



	M:	No, it was just FAMU students and we left the campus and there were maybe eight to ten of us, two abreast. But by the time we got to the bottom of the hill I looked back and there were maybe twenty couples maybe twenty five. By the time we got on that last walk past the campus, as far as your eye could see, there were Black men and women, side by side and it was the most empowering thing I think I felt in, I can’t tell you, it was just wonderful! And what we were trying to do was get to, I don’t know if it was called the Capital Theater but it was the main theater on Monroe street just down from the Capital at the time that the movie, whatever it was, turned out so that we could all be there. And I remember distinctly because I was up at the front of the line with my friend. And when they came out, everybody poured out, everybody was White of course and this guy comes out and he goes “Look at ‘em. It’s niggers, millions of them.”

	W:	[Laughter] Hilarious.



	M:	And then they loaded us into the paddy wagons, and because there were so many of us that went to jail, so many of us in jail, they didn’t have space for us and they were letting, they allowed certain people to come in and if they would speak for you, you could get out. Cannonball Adderley’s father came in, and he





said “I don’t know you, but tell me your parent’s names,” and so we just yelled and I said “Jonnie Hood,” he said “Jonnie Hood, I think I know her I’ll take her,” and that’s how I got out of jail.

	W:	But there were people that were staying too, weren’t they?



	M:	Well, if they stayed on that first time, they had another commitment than what the majority of us had. We were trying to get back so that we didn’t miss any classes because there were teachers who simply were not with it and if you missed the class then that was your—and then there were other teachers that said if you weren’t in that line? [Laughter] There was gonna be trouble.

	W:	Okay do you recall the names of the different camps? Who was your had-to-be in class, and was your had-to-be in jail?

	M:	Well I had a stroke a few years ago, and some things are just gone, you know? But she was not head of the English Department, but she was my head, she was my counselor and she wanted you in that line. She wanted, she said “There’s nothing more important than this right now. Be in it. Be somewhere, be involved.” So, that wasn’t a problem and there were other classes and I don’t remember specifically because I got back to class. I came out of jail and I went back to class. That, if you didn’t make it then you just didn’t make it.

	W:	And you can be kicked out of school. M:	Exactly. Exactly. So—.

	W:	Because there was the border control back then right? Exactly. So did you consider yourself a core activist?

	M:	No, not at all no.





	W:	Okay okay, but you were familiar with what they were doing on campus and everything?

	W:	I was familiar with what they were doing because I was of that age and it was the [19]60s and you were hearing about it every year.

	W:	And you were in the know.



	M:	Well yes but it wasn’t, I wasn’t a leader in it. I was definitely a follower, definitely.



I didn’t hold any meetings or anything like that. I kind of went along, if we were planning to do something “Okay, I’ll be there,” but that was my involvement.

	W:	Well now from that time to this, you’ve developed a lifetime of experience and values and ways to look at things, what’s your personal definition of leadership now?

	M:	I think particularly after coming back home, leadership is about caring. I think one of the things that I feel so much here is that young people don’t feel that anybody cares and I heard something a few days ago on TV and it said that in order for a young person to care about what you say, they have to know that you care about them, and I think that’s what’s happening now. When my mother and all of these people on that board were teaching, you knew that you belonged. There was an invisible arm around you, you know, and they could see you anyway and say something and you did it. You got yourself back on the right path. Now, I volunteered at an elementary school here, primary school, last year I went to the inauguration and President Obama and Mrs. Obama saying you just gotta get involved and so I came back home and I called—I’m bad with names, he was a Perry primary. George Clayton who was a student of my mother’s actually. He





was principal there and I called him and I said “I wanna help,” I said “I wanna come out and maybe help with reading skills,” or whatever. So I went, and I went for the rest of the year but one of the things that just struck me is that most of the—is that children just didn’t seem, even in second grade, to care and they’re awfully awfully angry. And I think that’s ‘cause they’re kind of alone. I don’t know if that makes sense but I didn’t get the sense that I had when I was here. That I’m protected, that I’m cared about, that people want me to learn. I didn’t get that sense. It was, we’ve got the test here, so you’ve got to learn how to read it. I do so well, usually, in communication and meeting and all you know all that kind of thing I always have public speaking and stuff, so I wanted to help with the reading. But there’s no chance because every minute is already cut out and set in stone you know? I remember the teacher was teaching reading and she was clapping her hands and so each syllable had to be every—. How do you teach it like that? How do they understand what they’re saying, you know? I had a little girl and I was supposed to check her reading and she was a bright little girl, little Black girl and she read like [slurred and fast] “Mary had a little lamb, with fleece as white as snow.” I said “Slow down sweetie,” I said “Slow down,” I said “I can’t understand what you’re saying.” So she started and we started to stop, watch over her again and she goes [slower] “Mary had a little lamb [slurred and fast] with fleece as white as snow.” I said “Slow down sweetie, I can’t understand.” She said “Ms. Moore, you can’t hear?” So I wish that even though there are things that are better than they were then, I wish that we could find some of the good parts from that to put back into all of the technology that we have.





	W:	The sense of community?



	M:	Yes. Yes that sense of community. That sense of everybody—that we are part of each other and what you do reflects of me as wat I do reflects on you and we’re here together. And that’s what I felt as a little kid. I don’t sense it, I don’t feel it, I don’t see it now, not at all.

	W:	What can be done to bring that back?



	M:	I’m not sure that it’s possible to bring it back and I realize that that’s a very negative place to be in, but I think it has to do with parenting. And right now we have so many single mothers, absent fathers, who I mean are not involved at all on any level? And I think the kids are just at loose ends and then they go to school and there’s not that sense of love? There just isn’t, and I think that until you get to that you can’t change anything. Like the leadership council was trying to do a May Day exercise. We used to do this every year and although I never went anywhere else that they had all these May Days and the May Pole and the all that but it was within the school. And so everybody was involved. The teachers were involved, the administration was involved, the students were involved, the parents were involved because everybody was involved with the school. Now, there are several different schools and parents are, I just don’t see that they are—they’re included enough, maybe that’s not the right word.

	W:	What about the neighbors and the community people too because like you when I was in school, you know if somebody on your street saw you doing something you get a whooping. But now people don’t even know each other in their neighborhoods.





	M:	They don’t know each other and you, you have to be careful. W:	Yeah you don’t want nobody to know your kids.

	M:	You know? Kids are not nice little young people all the time you know? You can get cursed out just? And so I think people are afraid, much more so than they used to be. To even say anything. I remember my mom, I told you she taught for generations here, and every year at Christmas people would come by the house who she had taught ages ago and they’d tell stories and stuff. And so this guy comes by one day and he said “One of the worst whippings I ever got was because of Ms. Moore.” And so mom said “I didn’t whip you that much,” and he said “No it wasn’t you,” “But you had already whipped me and when I got home you had been by the house so when I got home, my mother said ‘Ms. Moore said so and so and so.” and I said ‘No I didn’t,’ she say ‘you calling Ms. Moore a lie?’ said she’d be there ‘til times got better. Well you don’t see that today. Because teachers don’t have the respect that they had. We don’t make enough money.

	W:	It’s a labor of love that isn’t compensated, it’s true. M:	Exactly, exactly.

	W:	Well so why are you here today?



	M:	I’m here, well I came back home, to take care of my mother before she passed and after she passed my marriage had ended and so I didn’t really feel like the rat race again in Los Angeles, so I decided “Well I’m just gonna stay here until I can make up my mind what I want to do.” And before you know it several years have passed and so I’m here, I’m comfortable you know and right now that’s why





I’m here. I’m trying to get more involved in the community because I was in and out and in and out here, and in and out wherever I was.

	W:	You’re spread broad, but you’re not spread deep.



	M:	Exactly. Exactly, so I tried to do whatever I’m asked to do and I have been attending some Taylor County Leadership Council meetings and trying to participate in the activities a little more because I don’t have children and then so no grands. So, I’m not involved so much in school things but this is such a different place than when I grew up. There were Black businesses up and down Willow Street. There’s not one, there’re not—nothing. So I don’t see that the children have anything to look forward to. It’s just, I don’t know, get out of high school and most of them quit before they get out? And what is there? Everybody can’t work at Buckeye? Everybody can’t. And then what else is there to do?

	W:	When everybody can’t even go to the service anymore, they’re not taking everybody anymore.

	M:	Oh, okay there you go. So, I see kids walking up one side of the street, down the other up you know just back and forth. It’s almost like they’re pacing. Trying to figure out “What am I gonna do with my life?” And then they start selling dope and then they go to jail and then that cycle just repeats itself.

W:  If you were the czarina of it all, how would you handle it? If you could just reach into Perry with you mighty and hand and turn and change what you wanted to in the creative way that you could, what would you do?

M:  Well I’d win the lotto. [Laughter] W:   It always starts there. [Laughter]





	M:	I would love to see a charter school on this side of town where they didn’t have to worry about busing and where the community could be involved in it. The other side of town is too far away for a lot of our people. They don’t have cars or if they have them, they don’t have access to come at those times. So I would like to see a school that’s for, by, and about Black people you know? That brings back the love and the respect for each other that we had when Jerkins was in its heyday. And I believe that if you instill in a child, his greatness, his being worthwhile, in those first few years, by the time he gets over with the majority in high school, he will know who he is. Our children never get a chance to find out who they are because I think they’re undervalued you know in the larger system. So that’s what I would do. And I would just stock it with everything that they could possibly have. I remember those books. I remember my mother taking me to the library here after it closed and she would knock on the back door and a lady would come and give her books for me to read for that week and then we would do the same thing a week later. But we had to do that because we weren’t allowed in the library.

	W:	Not allowed in the library? You can’t just stop at that, now you gotta tell me more.



	M:	Well we weren’t allowed anywhere. I mean please, I remember doctor’s offices where you would go at seven o’clock in the morning and sit all day because White people would be coming in at eleven o’clock. Well he had to take all of the White people before he got to the Black people who were there at seven. I remember that. And I think that here in Perry because, it is where it is it was a hard scrambled kind of place and so there wasn’t a whole lot to share with





another. Maybe that was it, there wasn’t enough to go around and so we always got short shrift.

	W:	And the interstate is thirty miles away.



	M:	It’s thirty miles away and before that came, highway 27 was pretty active. We had all these motels and stuff. We were the motel capital of North Florida. But, when the interstate came that took all of that away and now all of those places are just run down and torn down.

	W:	Well what are your hopes for the next Jerkins celebration? They’ve got one planned for 2012 and seems like there’s some momentum building, what are your expectations for this next event?

	M:	Well my hope is that more people will come back and get involved. My hope is that people hear, because we are good at complaining but we’re not real good at getting ourselves activated in doing. And I’m hoping. ‘Cause the leadership council tries really hard but it’s always the same little group of people that are working, working, working away and nobody else gets involved. Everybody else is just complaining. So I would hope that we can get ourselves moving so that we can do some of the things and I think if we just get one or two good things going, ‘cause people in Perry are looking for something, at least they say they are, looking for something to do. So if we could just get one or two things that we want, that the community sees and understands and we actually bring it off, then maybe people will come back. Because otherwise I don’t have a lot of hope for it.





	W:	Well I can see you inspiring some young people in the dramatic arts locally. Or the public speaking I think, forensics. I can see that and I’m sitting here watching and talking to you and I can see that happening.

	M:	Well you know, that is what I had hoped to do in doing the school thing but that didn’t work out because they have restrictions on them and they have to get these tests passed. What is it FCAT or whatever all of that stuff is and so that wasn’t my venue. I thought it was but it wasn’t, so maybe in this next coming year there will be some things that—I have a friend in Los Angeles who’s putting together it’s called ETI: Educational Theater Institute. And what she’s doing is putting together programs where you can teach acting, public speaking and all that kind of things to children and it has a beginning, a middle, and an end. You can do it in the summer. They bring people in to do the teaching and so she said “I’m almost ready to take it on the road. When I do—”

	W:	Let Perry be one of the stops. M:	Exactly.

	W:	Yeah that would be terrific. M:	Yeah.

	W:	Awesome. Well I’ve very much enjoyed chatting with you Edwina Moore. M:	Thank you.

	W:	This has been a great pleasure. On behalf of the University of Florida and the Sam Proctor Oral History Program we thank you for the interview and I like to close each interview by giving the person I’ve spoken with a chance to close in their own words. Some reflection, some part of the interview, something we didn’t





talk about, something we did talk about it doesn’t make a difference but at the conclusion of those remarks, that’ll close the interview.

	M:	Well I just want to thank you for coming. It’s always heartening to know that somebody sees us other than just ourselves and I think just being able to tell our stories sometime can solidify in our own minds of the things that we want to do so hopefully your being here and taking the time to in a sense broadcast our story help us tell it, help us see it, help us feel it, help us get back to it, is going to help. I hope so. I hope so. Thank you.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Sandra Romero, September 15, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, October 9, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019