AAHP 156; Presley; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 156 Glynell Presley African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on January 16, 2011 55 minutes | 25 pages



Abstract: Glynell Presley grew up in Lake City, Florida, and attended Richardson High School there. He was an active member of the Lake City NAACP at the time of the interview. He talks about growing up in Lake City and his experiences at Richardson, including in athletics. He particularly talks about baseball in the area. Mr. Presley also relates some of his experiences serving in the US Air Force.





[Keywords: African American History; Columbia County, Florida; US Military Veterans]



























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 156

Interviewee: Glynnell Presley Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: January 16, 2010



	W:	This is Marna Weston, with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at Mt.



Pisgah AME church in Lake City. January 16th, 2010. I’m interviewing Mr. Glynnell Presley of the Colombia County NAACP and a Richardson graduate of the class of 1949. Mr. Presley thank you very much for the interview today.

	P:	You’re quite welcome.



	W:	Can you please spell your full name?



	P:	G-L-Y-N-N-E-L-L, Glynnell. Presley, P-R-E-S-L-E-Y.



	W:	Do you have a middle name? P:	B, Bertie. I just use the B.

	W:	Just the B?



	P:	Yeah I don’t use the middle initial, the middle initial. W:	What is your date of birth?

	P:	April 6, 1931.



	W:	Where were you born? P:	Clearwater, Florida.

	W:	Your parents were residing—they’re from Clearwater? P:	Yes.

	W:	What are their names please?



	P:	Alma K. Presley, Mother. Leroy Presley, Father.



	W:	They’re originally from Clearwater or were from somewhere else? P:	No, originally from here Lake City, Columbia County.

	W:	How did they end up down in Clearwater at the time of your birth?





	P:	Well we had relatives there, and they were staying there during the time that I was born.

	W:	Who were the relatives?



	P:	Uh, gosh, Annie Goodman, Salas Goodman, gosh what else, Salas Jackson, those were them.

	W:	Those were aunts, uncles, brothers, sisters?



	P:	Well they were sisters to my mother, my mother’s father. W:	What was your mother’s father’s name?

	P:	Salas.



	W:	He was the Salas Jackson?



	P:	No, Salas Goodman, I got the other Salas mixed with him, but Salas Goodman was my granddad, that’s my mother’s dad.

	W:	Salas Goodman was your granddad and you mother’s dad. Who was his wife? P:	Mable.

	W:	Where were they originally from? P:	Columbia County.

	W:	Basically a Columbia County family but there was a time in Clearwater. What about your dad’s people?

	P:	My dad uh, father lived here in Lake City. They migrated from Moncks Corner in South Carolina to Lake City.

	W:	I want to ask about both of them but let me back up for a second. What is your dad’s name?

	P:	Leroy Presley.







W:

Mother?

P:

Alma.

W:

You were telling me about your dad’s dad. What is his name?

P:

His name is Charlie.

W:

His last name?

P:

Presley.

W:

Who was his wife?

P:

She died earlier, Dahlia.

W:

Do you know her maiden name?

P:

Bailey.

W:

Did your grandfather remarry or when she died that was it?

P:

Yeah when she died that was it.

W:

So he never remarried. Do you know anything about any of your family older than



your grandparents that you could share? Names of great grandparents, or even



past that.

P:

No no that’s beyond me, I was born in [19]31 and that kind of information at that



time, I didn’t dwell on that, I got a sister who can give you all of that.

W:

What is her name?

P:

Patricia.

W:

Her maiden and married names?

P:

Patricia Presley, but she’s Patricia Presley Johnson at this time.

W:

Where does she reside?

P:

New York.







W:

New York City?

P:

Yeah.

W:

What is her date of birth?

P:

I couldn’t give that to you.

W:

How long has she left the area and been in New York City?

P:

Since the early [19]50s, [19]50, to be more specific, [19]52.

W:

Ok I’ll have to catch up with you to get information about her.

P:

Yeah.

W:

You’re married Mr. Presley, who is your wife?

P:

Bris Presley.

W:

What was her maiden name?

P:

Daniels.

W:

When were you married?

P:

I don’t know, been married for 40 years. Somebody else asked that question.

W:

Don’t want to get you in trouble.

P:

That’s something we didn’t celebrate, we don’t celebrate. I just, I’m kinda



forgetting things, in April I’ll be 80 years old. So I’m an old man.

W:

Where did you meet your wife?

P:

Here in Lake City.

W:

What were the circumstances, how did you all meet?

P:

We were both at the same school, we taught at the same school, Richardson.

W:

So you not only went to Richardson but you taught there. Okay, and what subject



did you teach?





	P:	Math, and Driving Education, basketball coach, football coach, baseball coach. W:	I’m sure you have very memorable seasons doing all those things.

	P:	Definitely.



	W:	We’ll come back to those, I want to stick with your wife for a second. What was it that brought you all together besides just working together? Is there a particular moment you can remember?

	P:	No no, just, well I was a basketball coach and she was the scorekeeper. And I was math teacher and she was a math teacher, I taught 8th graders, and she was a high school math teacher, so there were a lot of times where I’d rely on her for little things I didn’t brung up on. Because math is really not my forte. I’m a physical ed. major, and so we needed a math teacher for the 8th grade, and, “Hey you the guy.”

	W:	And then she came along with that. P:	Yeah.

	W:	Well you were very lucky. P:	Yes, definitely.

	W:	Where were you married at? P:	Uh, we married in Georgia. W:	What county or city?

	P:	Uh man. It’s not tough, I'm forgetting a lot of stuff, I’m in the early stages of, whatcha call it? Alzheimer’s I think. I guess it must’ve been, little time in Georgia.

	W:	Folkston, Waycross, Quitman?



	P:	No, not those. Must’ve been Marietta.







W:

Marietta, up near Atlanta.

P:

No it wasn’t near Atlanta, so that’s not it.

W:

Somewhere in the southern part of Georgia?

P:

Yeah up from uh, Mclinden.

W:

Okay so very close. Valdosta?

P:

No no, Valdosta’s up 75.

W:

So within an hour of Mclinden?

P:

Yeah, probably so.

W:

Okay well we’ll come back to that one. What is your earliest memory, oh actually,



how many children do you have?

P:

I got seven.

W:

Can you give me their names in order of their birth, oldest to youngest?

P:

The oldest is Tony, she’s a girl almost 53. Following her is Terry, following Terry



is Glendale, following Glendale is Kendrick, and following Kendrick is Glenise,



Michelle, Debbie.

W:

So 5 girls and 2 boys?

P:

Uh-huh.

W:

And uh how about grandchildren?

P:

Got eight.

W:

Eight grandchildren. Any great-grands yet?

P:

No no, thank goodness.





W:  What is your earliest memory growing up as a child? Something you remember about growing up with your brothers and sisters? Could you tell me about them, brothers and sisters from oldest to youngest?

P:  I’m the oldest in the family, my sisters, my brothers next to me, there’s eighteen months difference between he and I, and then ten years from me is my sister.

W:  Okay, what was the brother’s name? P:  Paul, he is deceased.

W:   Very sorry, when was Paul born?



	P:	Uh, I don’t know the birthday, I know it was July. About eighteen months. W:	And there was eight and a half years between the next child?

	P:	No 10 years, between me and my sister. W:	What was her name?

	P:	Patricia.



	W:	Patricia from New York who you mentioned. Any other children? P:	Yeah.

	W:	Glendale, Paul, Patricia.



	P:	Tyrone, next brother. Next sister is Valentine, next brother is Walter, and that should be it.

	W:	Now what was the spread between the time of your birth and Walter the last baby? It was ten years from Patricia how much longer?

	P:	Probably three years from the next girl, and two years from her. W:	That’s 15 years right there.

	P:	That’s ‘bout what you have.





	W:	Now that’s a big family but not as big as some of the others. What was it like growing up in a big family?

	P:	That family wasn’t that big, from my sense of looking at it because- W:	Just you and Paul was together.

	P:	Yeah, yeah we grew up really close to each other, now when my—I was the babysitter for the next two, the girl and the boy. And by the time the other two were gone, I was in service.

	W:	Patricia and Tyrone?



	P:	The last two, that’s Valentine and Walter. I was in service, during that time. W:	Um, so that was World War II, the service you speak of?

	P:	Yeah.



	W:	Yeah well I definitely want to come back and talk. P:	No, no I’m not in World War II.

	W:	No?



P:  I volunteered in 1940 uh, 19, July of 1949. W:  It’s Korea.

P:  Yeah July 26, it hadn’t started at the time. July 26, 1949 when I went to the air force.

W:  What was your earliest memory growing up being at home with your parents, doing chores?

P:  Earliest memory growing up would be, my mother was teaching. I think I must have been about four. She took me to school, with her, I started school at four years old because she took me, that’s one of the early things that I remember.





Earlier than that, I did, I guess, a lot of playing around the house. I can remember my dad would take me places, and people would grab me and cuddle, you know all that kind of stuff. But other than that, play time, I remember when my sister was born—the first sister, when she was born—I can almost see the picture now, she was born at home, at the house.

	W:	Was there a midwife?



	P:	She was, the midwife, was present.



	W:	Do you remember the midwife’s name?



	P:	No, I probably could if I think about it, but right now, I can’t.



	W:	What is it that you remember about her being born at home that makes it so vivid, that’s a memory that came back for you?

	P:	The middle of the night we went to bed, and next morning a little girl, a little sister in the bed, you know. I remember picking up her little fingers, and I took my fingers and put it in her fingers and I looked, and compared my fingers to hers, my finger was bigger than her whole hand. I just you know, that they never believed me.

	W:	Was Paul there with you looking at the same time? Both looking together? P:	No, no.

	W:	You were singular?



	P:	I was singular at the time, yeah I don’t remember where he was but-



	W:	So you didn’t hear the birth or anything, you just remember next morning there was a little sister?

	P:	Yeah, yeah.





	W:	Was everything like that in your life? All very contained, what took place around the house and where you all lived, that was what you paid attention to?

	P:	Yeah at that stage, yeah, but I remember when I went to first grade Richardson, first grade through twelfth. I remember going there.

	W:	Richardson where the community center is located in Indian City now?



	P:	Yeah, I remember my second grade, I spent a stent in Tallahassee, Florida A&M. They had a training school, Lucy Moten, I think that was it, well I remember being there second grade, because my mom went to summer school. So I was there with her. I was so—I remember being sick, when we came home from training, but I was as sick as could be, because that was something that I never got that out of my mind. ‘Cause I remember I told my mom I was gonna die, and she said, “Boy hush you ain’t gonna die.” But I was real sick though, maybe it was the food back then, I don’t know what it was, but after a while I got better.

	W:	You remember that?



	P:	Yeah, and also I remember I was kinda sick as a child, in the early grades. I remember a lot of times I had to stay out of school because of sickness. What was that second grade, second grade I was out of school almost the half the year. When I went back, the teacher asked me, whether I needed to go to third grade or, well I remember telling the lady, “No, I want to stay in second grade.”

	W:	Was that because you were smaller?



	P:	No, I was the size of the rest of ‘em, everyone else, but I knew I had missed a lot of days. I know one thing I was ahead of everybody ‘cause I started at four, so





that might have been it. But they needed to confer with my mom, so she said, “Hey leave it up to him.” So I stayed and spent two years in second grade.

W:  But you were still a year ahead of everybody else because you started when you were four?

P:   Right, and as I looked back I was kinda glad that I did that because had I gone on I would have been—well I played a lot of sports in high school and for me to be, that gave me a little more maturity.

W:  Instead of being two years younger you were one year. P:  Yeah, yep.

W:  There’s a big difference between being sixteen and eighteen in high school. Who is the teacher you remember the most that had the strongest early impact on you as a person?

	P:	Negative impact was the second grade teacher, I was left-handed, and she wacked me on the hand. That’s when my speech got crossed up, my speech was beautiful before then, as far as I could tell, but it had such a dramatic effect. I see her she said, “Sit at that desk,” and then I watched and asked while I shift back then I forget to watch her and I know I get that wack across the, same thing over and over, put it back she and catch me again so then she stopped hittin’ me across there and kept slip up and pinch me and twist, you know. I was the kind of guy that wouldn’t run home and tell mama, I didn’t say nothing I just took it, so that lady probably had the most negative effect.

	W:	What was her name? P:	Last name was Balkom.





	W:	Mrs. Balkom. Before I ask you about a positive teacher influence, did it leave you ambidextrous? Can you write with both hands now or are you still predominantly right-handed?

	P:	I can use both hands, but she would tell me things like the world is right-handed and you need to be right-handed because you don’t fit, and stuff like that. My mother was left-handed, but I didn’t have the maturity to tell her, “Hey my mother’s left-handed.”

	W:	But you were a child, you were listening to what an adult said.



	P:	I look back on it and she thought she was doing the right thing for me by making go to the right hand, but that was not right for me even though now I can use both hands. I remember that I developed a speech impediment at that time. I’ve cleaned it up a lot since then, but it’s still there.

	W:	Earliest positive memory from a teacher?



	P:	Probably, I think it was first or second grade. Coulter, C-O-U-L-T-E-R. W:	Man or woman?

	P:	Woman, but as I got older the most—I got in high school, I guess Mark Fergusson the chemistry teacher had a positive effect. I was kind of devilish and playful and I’d get away with a lot of stuff, in his class you couldn’t do that.

Chemistry teacher, man you had to do work, that paid off big time. Then I had a coach that was ‘bout as equal as the chemistry teacher, Babe James, that was his name. That was my football coach, basketball coach, baseball coach. And in ninth grade I don’t know how, but they asked me to come out for the baseball team. Ninth grade I was a catcher on our varsity baseball team, smallest guy





there, but yet the catcher. I got that spot I guess because I had a lot more nerve, a lot more grit, a lot more aggressiveness than most of the boys we had, and a lot of the players, they were afraid to get behind the bat. Whenever they swing the bat they would close their eyes, and stuff, plus my dad was a catcher and he was much bigger than me, he was 225 lbs or something. And I had a brother coming up and he played at home, he and I would play all day.

	W:	He would pitch you would catch, he would catch you’d pitch?



	P:	Yeah we would reverse it and sometimes we used a tennis ball. We used a tennis ball and a broom handle, we started with, and we had what we called a smoke house. A building that you would smoke meats in, kind of wide and rough lumber and so we would use the building as a catcher, you know when you throw, and he would bat I’d throw, and hit the ball most times it run back. If he did swing he’d miss, it’ll run back to you so you didn’t have to run it down. But anyways we did that for a lot of times, I guess since we were big enough to throw a ball, catch a ball, but anyway ninth grade, I don’t know how I got out to the team, I was a catcher for the varsity. Also I was the, I’m bragging, but my play was superior to all the other guys. I was much more mature, my arm was as strong as it could possibly be, and a lot of times we’d throw batting practice and coach would pitch, I would be the catcher. At the end of my ninth grade year, my coach came to me one day and said, “Listen, we want you to try out for the Browns.” The Browns were a semi-professional team here in Lake City, they were super good. They had uh players who had been to service and back, all around, no youngsters on the team. My coach played for them, you know, it was





going through my mind, “Coach must be out of his mind.” And he told me ‘course you believe what adults would tell you. So I went to the tryouts one Sunday, and instead of trying out they put me in the game. All these men, grown men been all and back oh. I did well, and they told me, “You made the team, you’re on the team.” So I played baseball with my baseball coach, but he was right there to tell me little things teach me little things and I caught on just real fast. So he was one of the persons that I admire, he was one of the positive influenced on my life.

	W:	Babe James?



	P:	Babe James.



	W:	Where did you all play your games, were they all in Lake City or did you go to different places?

	P:	Most of our games were right here in Lake City, we had, we were fortunate enough to have a owner on the team who operated a joint, called a juke joint.

	W:	What was his name?



	P:	Gurley Brown. He was known all around, everybody knew Gurley Brown, ‘cause he operated what they called Bolita, Cuba.

	W:	The numbers.



	P:	He had a pool hall, gambling houses, all kinds. What else, everything, this was in the [19]40s, almost every game I played I’d get ten dollars, we played a lot of games on Sunday, every Sunday, sometimes Saturday and holidays. We played most of our games down there on Washington Street, the end of the street out there. We had a ballpark, a fenced in park, most of the team we played were top notch teams out of Jacksonville, remember one team in Williston they had a top





notch team, we played the best out of Jacksonville, we had other teams around, we didn’t play them we played the best.

	W:	Was it just a straight up baseball game or was there entertainment that went to it to?

	P:	No, straight baseball. Now it got to the point where the owner, Gurley Brown, would after the game we had a sort of club. We would get sometimes 2 gallons moonshine, almost after every game. Well I’m fourteen years old, so naturally I’m, I knew better than to bother that. And the older guys looked at me as their son and they would tell me, “Kid listen, let me have your portion of shine, I’ll give you money, I’ll pay you,” I said, “No you can have it I don’t care,” and all the time they would drink my portion to get my portion. Sometimes they would give me money sometimes you know, any time you hit a home run, that’s five dollars. And remember we had a fenced in field, ‘cause crowds of ten all the way around the whole thing. And we had big crowds and we played ball on Sundays and it would be 1 o’clock and most times people after the church, nowhere else to go, so they’d come to the game. If you got a timely hit, they pass a cap around through the stands. If you on base or out in the field, when you got back to the side lines that cap of money belong to you, yeah.

	W:	So it really was a performance league, you got paid for your performance.



	P:	Yeah definitely, and I know many mornings on the way to school, I liked school, I didn’t miss school, I didn’t care what, I didn’t miss school. I know a lot of mornings on the way to school, they got a street, Railroad Street. Gurley Brown, the owner of the team, had a pool hall, and had some other buildings. Well





anyway, most times I would have to go by his place to go to school, and he would stop and ask me if I need anything, “You need anything?” “No I’m alright.” But then it got to one or two times my money got low, and I said, “Listen,” I said, “I need to borrow two or three dollars and I’ll pay you back,” and a lot times he kept a wad of money like that, he just sometimes give me five dollars. I try to pay him, he said, “That’s alright go ahead.” He and I had a close relationship and I remember he told Buddy Dunkin one day and said, “Listen you got to bring this kid along careful, you don’t want to rush him,” he said, “Nah I don’t want him catch from Wheeler.” Wheeler was a pitcher ‘bout 6’4’’ man he had a fast ball out of sight, now Wheeler could have been in the leagues, he been coming along now, he pulled them off out there.

	W:	Like a satchel page?



	P:	Yeah yeah, but that fast ball, he had one, I have never seen anyone throw a fast ball like that since. But he told Gurley Brown told Buddy Dunkin to manage us, “No, no don’t let the kids catch from Wheeler, Wheeler too fast for him.” I was listening, man what the man think I am? I said, “I’mma catch it, man they-” I’m sayin’ to myself. But you kids you ever, like I didn’t hear them talking. But it so happens one day, Johnny Daniels used to be the catcher for Wheeler, and before I got down to Johnny Daniels the number one catcher. But when I got there, they took down Johnny Daniels and put him in the outfield and I did the catchin’.

	W:	Where was Johnny Daniels from?





	P:		He’s from Olustee, down the road here ‘bout thirteen miles. But anyway, this particularly day Johnny had to work. Wheeler—it was a top notch team, so Wheeler had to pitch against them, this team, and they put me in. Gurley Brown told Wheeler, “Don’t throw your fast ball, that’s a kid now,” he said, “Okay, so we went out.” And I’ll never forget ‘bout the second, third inning the guy, got a hit, went to second, and guy got on first, so first and second. Wheeler got two strikes on the batter, I guess Wheeler forgot, he threw, I called for the fast ball, he threw a fast ball. All his pitches were easy, you could almost sit and put your mitt there and close your eyes, and it would hit the mitt. But anyway, his fastball and when it got to the batter, it went up and dropped in the dirt. I had never seen anything like that, but what it did, it went all the way to the plate, I knew, you know you squat leisurely, so when it got to the plate I got up in a little semi squat, I was prepared to catch the ball, I looked and saw the dirt and it dropped in the glove, you know like this. He called timeout that was strike three on the guy, he called time out, and he asked me, “Man did I scare you with that pitch?” I said, “Nah you didn’t scare me, I just didn’t know you had that kinda.” He said, “Listen they been hittin’ around a little bit and I don’t like that and I had to strike this guy out, think you can handle it?” I said, “Yeah man I can handle it, I just need to know, you know.” After that wasn’t no problems.

	W:	So you were able to catch his fastball? P:	Yeah, yeah.





	W:	So you brought a long by these people that mentored and looked out for you, do you think that helped prepare you as a leader? In what way did it help develop your leadership?

	P:	I remember the same coach Baby James, short man, about my height, but he was a talented man, he kick a football almost from one goal post to the other, he went before any of them as a kicker and a running back. He could kick that ball from almost one goal post to the other, and the ball would leave the foot like that and would level off, and after it go so far it would drop down like that. But that same man was the physical ed. teacher, and he told me he said, “Listen we gonna deviate a little bit from what we usually do, I’mma teach you all how to drill, I’mma teach you all how to march.” He took us, and taught us how to march and he taught us some extra stuff, and we learned real fast and real good, and then he put some other fancy stuff in there where one line go this way the other go that way, one go out this way, one go back that way. Then he give us the command and we come back, and all meet together, boy I scratched my head, man I like that. That gave me an incentive to be the best that I could be. When I went to the Air Force, when I got there basics training, like in the Air Force base in San Antonio, Texas. They had us, “Hey we gonna teach you recruits how to march.” They had to teach me, and I knew as much as they did. I was the shortest thing there, so they made me the flight leader. That meant I was up front, you know if you got a line like this, four lines, all of them together they cross here, but the flight leader was out front, you know what I’m talking about?

	W:	Yes sir.





	P:	That’s was I was, I had the sergeant man rely on me. He said, “I want you to take so and so out there and show them this and this, they crazy, running into each other.” And never, that just buoyed me, built my confidence up.

	W:	And that started from the stuff that you learned.



	P:	Yeah learned in high school, I don’t learn the march. I’m just like the rest of the guys, running into folks, tripping up, acting crazy, but that and also in high school, I played football, In ninth grade, they sent for me, I didn’t ask to them, they sent for me cause we, lunch time, we play football, like they play in University of Florida, we played that kind of football, with no athletic provisions, just in regular school clothes. We had an hour for lunch, we’d be hitting just like we had on helmets and stuff. I remember it be dog eat dog, well I always grew up playing football, we play in plowed fields. So you learn to run, you learn how to tackle. I knew I was little, so man I can’t hit those big guys up around the waist, I always hit from the knee down. And learned sorta how to coil spring, you know how rattle snakes, I learned that tactic ‘cause I quickly learned that, because the bigger guy with long arms, you up high they pow slap you in the mouth, face, anything. So I learned how to stay out of the way of that straight arm, recoil at those feet. I got good to the point where most time when the feet and the legs placed like this, I catch them when they are together and I learned to pull them to me. Just roll over, and if you don’t follow me, you end up with a broken ankle. So I learned that on my own, and looked like tackling was made for me. When you tackle somebody I took it as life or death, so I learned all of that. But anyway, the first





year I played they had me playing defensive guard. The coach was a dentist at that time, Dr. Bunch, who was a dentist here in Lake City, Black guy.

	W:	What was his first name?



	P:	Oh he had a private practice on Washington Street. W:	Dr. Bunch do you recall his first name?

	P:	Oh it’s been so long.



	W:	Was he the only Black dentist?



	P:	Yeah. But anyway, it’ll come back, but they would watch us play during lunch, so the coach sent a guy for me, asking me to come out for the team. Coach asked me and then I said, “Hey I’m going.” They had to play special for me I didn’t weight about 118, we had guys 225 out there. So the first year I was defense, 6 2 2 1, that was standard. Next year we running from single wing, that’s old- fashioned.

	W:	Single wing, that’s what they brought back, it’s the wild cat now.



	P:	Yeah, that’s what we ran. Next year they moved me from the defense to the offense and I was running out there, not the tailbacks, but next to the tailbacks. All the passes, I had to throw. I threw all the passes because my arm was better than all, they had guys 6’2’’, 6’3’’ in that tailback spot and they couldn’t throw the ball. They could throw, but not accurate and not deep. I could throw accurate and deep. And so doing that, plus I’mma just a little sophomore, rest of them guys are seniors then. But they looked at me, and I just naturally you know, but then the next year, no senior year, we changed coaches. Coach James left, the new coach Richard Handles, he’s there now. He came and we went to T formation.





And he sent for me during the summer out there and sent for me and said, “I want you to be my quarterback.” And he worked with me during the summer showing me the steps and how to hand off the ball, and stuff like that. Now practice come, I was pretty good.

	W:	So you were always able to find mentors that would take you under their wing and show you what it was to do. And you would listen to them and you would follow their directions. So now have you used that in other parts of your life? Today there was this terrific program put on at Mt. Pisgah and the second year that I've come to it, where everything just kinda clicked. There were speakers, there were singers. Do you think that these examples of leadership previously help you put the program on today?

	P:	Without question. That program, I’m not bragging ‘cause I’m not one to brag. W:	You don’t have to brag, I saw it, it was good. Everything clicked.

	P:	There were on or two little hitches but I think all that comes from back then early foundation. Now the program, I put the program together. Me, nobody else.

	W:	I could tell because Mrs. Whitfield mentioned me, and how does she mention us, Mr. Presley must have told ‘em.

	P:	She forgot one or two little things but that’s alright, I know how it is. But even the timing of the program, the setting up, all of that, everything, me. The other members of the executive board didn’t know what was on it until they got there today. That’s all the time.

	W:	So they look to you as well? P:	Yeah.





	W:	So what is your definition of leadership, what makes a leader?



	P:	I don’t know. Well to be a leader you got to, well you gotta have wit, you got to have some understanding, you got to have some organization, that kind of thing. Gotta be able to convince folk that you know what you’re doing. After one or two times they just fall in line. Just like the money. I tell them all the time, “Listen.

Somebody, you all need to do some things.” You have people come in today, all the preparation they back there, sitting down. A lot of work had to be done out there, programs go to be given, we gave calendars too. And we goofed up, and a box of calendars out there should’ve been given out to the people. I missed it, forgot it, whole box, pocket calendar you know like that, advertising in the conference of the NAACP. Yeah the box still back there.

	W:	Gotta make sure I get one of them. The house was packed, there were very few seats.

	P:	None of them, plus I gave out certain ones, I looked, Al Olive I gave him a hundred and sixty for his church. But the calendar should have been given to the people. Man I just blew my mind I forgot it. I had put down the names of all those people that we invited.

	W:	Elected officials and honorees.



	P:	Yeah, yeah and she forgot the clergy. I like to do clergy because they like for their names to be mentioned, and when you mention them, they you know, they chest out, and I play on that.

	W:	It’s good to edify the clergy because they have congregations. P:	This is the list.





	W:	This is the second one, you gave me- P:	No this is the same thing.

	W:	Yeah I got that.



	P:	Yeah, I had to come back and do that this morning.



	W:	I can’t tell you how much the oral history program appreciates that. Looking at a list of 40 names of registered high school graduates with phone numbers.

	P:	This is a key lady and I didn’t have a number, couldn’t get it, or I didn’t have time to get it, but that’s a key lady.

	W:	I’ll be talking to you, I want to come back for that program on the 24th for Richardson Middle that the principal was talking about.

	P:	But anyways you don’t want to talk about that. But anyways a leader has certain qualities I guess.

	W:	So what are those qualities?



	P:	Well got to be aggressive, got to have knowledge, got to have understanding, got to be tactful, must understand the nature of people. I guess those are some of the things, I’m not being real scientific about it, but those characteristics that you must possess as a leader.

	W:	Do you think as an African American man, different from you know other people that aren’t African American? And if so, why?

P:  No no it’s no different. I don’t think there’s a difference, even in driver ed. I taught driver ed. at Richardson which was all-Black. I taught driver ed. At Columbia High School, which was integrated at the time. We had four driver education teachers. Again, they would look to me for leadership. I saw little things that—we had one





guy who he meant well, his parents were influential they had a plenty. A lot of them a lot of people, he was driver education teacher. And we taught driver education, and forgot the word, we did a team, as far as the classroom. And so I said, “Hey man look at here if you don’t mind,” so, I started, I took the leadership. After a while we had another guy, White boy. I guess he was friendly, he wanted to do things, he told me, “Man I think I can do it, I can do it.” I said, “Man take it.” and he wasn’t the sharpest knife in the drawer so to speak, and sometimes we used the little handbook, you know the little driver handbook, we used that in teaching too. One day he mispronounced some words, sobriety, and I caught it, and so I didn’t say anything to him. Later on he did it again, and so second time I said, “Hey man,” after class, “Listen man let me tell you something, this word right here man, that’s sobriety.” He thanked me, and from time to time, he would say the wrong things and it got to the point where he look at me and I kinda looked back and he knew he had made an error. But that same guy, right now, he’s retired, too. He called me from time to time, and he said, “Man you my lawyer.” I really paid this for him, I did a lot of things for him and he got to the point where he stopped putting checks in the box, in my mailbox and sent ‘em to me.

	W:	Looks like the boss is here.



	P:	Yeah she wanted to give me something.



	W:	Well believe it or not we’ve got about 53 minutes. I think we can do a bunch of these, maybe we should just wrap up this first hour and get together and do it again.





	P:	Yeah, yeah I’d be glad to, when you got some time.



	W:	Mrs. Presley is here reminding us about the time. She brought some cookies with her, but we’re going to have dinner after this, but I appreciate it. Since Mrs.

Presley has come, just on behalf of the Sam Proctor Oral History Program and our African American History Project, I want to thank you Mr. Presley for this chance to sit down with you for the first time, I know several others will come. I appreciate the wisdom and what you shared on leadership and on your experiences. I like to just close all my interviews with that thank you and then give you the opportunity to say anything you would like. And at the end of your remarks, whatever they’re about, that’ll conclude our interview today.

	P:	Well I’d like to say I enjoyed it and thank you so much for giving me the opportunity. You want a re-do, ‘cause I skipped a lot of stuff, I’ll be glad to do it. Thank you so much.

	W:	Thank you. That was a good one. It’s a good start. I can tell we’re going to have to do a lot of these ‘cause that hour went real fast and there’s a lot of stuff we didn’t talk about. Your whole time between tenth grade and high school, between the Air Force. We didn’t talk about the Air Force, so lot of stuff. We’ll let him go.

	P:	Thank you. [End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, November 9, 2017 Final edit:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019