AAHP 579C; Johnson; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 579C Jacob Johnson 10-3-1996 Interviewed by Janet Matthews on October 3, 1996

90 minutes | 34 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Fort Meyers elder Jacob Johnson recalls his memory of the Black community during the 1920s, 1930s, and 1940s on Sanibel Island. He remembers the Black community’s struggle for property ownership during the first half of the twentieth century on Sanibel lsland, recalling that White property owners refused to sell land to Blacks. He remembers raising chickens, catching fish, and growing crops alongside his brothers and sisters in order to support the family through the Depression. Johnson also recalls the impact of some of his teachers at Williams Academy, the first Black school in the area. Johnson remembers how members of the community formed the Sportsman Club, which rallied to rebrand the Black area of town as “Dunbar,” instead of other derogatory names used in the past. He concludes with memories of the Sportsman Club’s fundraising activities and mentions that he plans to donate the club’s charter to a soon-to-open Black history museum.



Keywords: [Sanibel Island, Florida, Black community, family history, Fort Meyers, Dunbar, property ownership]



AAHP 579C

Interviewee: Jacob Johnson Interviewer: Janet Matthews Date: October 3, 1996

	M:	Today is October 3, 1996 and Mr. Jacob R. Johnson and I are sitting here. Mrs. Rogers is not with us today, and we are doing a follow-up on the two interviews we have previously done. Well, my first question for you to think about is, I want to back up to the time at Sanibel when you all lived there and were farming there and I would like to talk a little bit about how the situation worked. Like, your dad was farming on land that belonged to the Bailey’s, and I know he was an independent farmer and a very capable farmer who had an independent successful way of doing things, but could you tell us a little bit about where he got his seed or his fertilizer? How that worked? How did he interact with Bailey, what did the agreement seem to be? And I want to ask you a little bit about your lifestyle. When you weren’t farming, did you fish? Did you use the beach at all?

What sort of activities did you do that still bring people from far away to Sanibel Island? And I’d like to talk a little bit about ownership of land. I mean, we’ve talked about that before. Your father did not own land and yet he was making a lot of money and probably could have owned land.

	J:	My father, Isaac Johnson, moved to Sanibel in 1923. He moved the family from Fort Meyers to Sanibel in the summer of 1924. At the time, he and my older brother Charlie were living on the beach there, on Sanibel, the Gulf of Mexico. And it was just a short distance down to the water edge from the house. We lived there for about a month before moving inland and up the island. And while living there on the beach, we did go swimming sometimes but it wasn’t a regular thing. I don’t know if it was fear from my mother or if there was no one there to act as a guard or whatever but we didn’t go swimming too much. Now, when we moved





down the island and inland, we were near the flats there on the bayside of the island, and we used to go out there sometimes and wade around the water because it was always in the shallows and it wasn’t very deep. We did crabbing, things of that sort around there; mostly on weekends is when we went fishing.

We usually worked a half day on Saturdays and on Saturday afternoon we would drive down to Blind Pass and fish off the bridge there. When there was an abundance of fish caught, we usually cleaned the fish and my father taught us how to salt it down and whatnot and we would dry it and keep it in reserve for future use. And this was one way that we always had fish or food when you used for breakfast or some other meal at a later time. My father worked on shares in a sense, with the Sanibel Packing Company owned by the Baileys. Usually, he bought fertilizer and seed from the Baileys or from the Sanibel Packing Company. And they also had this company store inclusive with the packing company. But as I remember, my father didn’t buy too much foodstuff from the Baileys. During the harvest time, as I can remember, which isn’t too much that I can remember about this particular activity or the business end of his dealing with them, but I’m sure there was an arrangement of sorts where they shared in the profits from the farm or selling of the products. I was asked earlier, you asked me earlier about one of the situations there with my father being accused of something that he had not done. This particular time, I believe it was shortly after we moved down the island, well several months later, that this man came down and was—I guess he was supposed to have been working there with us or with my father rather. And later on, the accusation came about, someone was making





whiskey there in the boonies down near the flats. And they accused my father of being the person who was doing it. Of course, that was the farthest thing for him to have done. So, I think it was cleared up or I feel that it was cleared up that he was not the guilty person.

	M:	Can we start with that. After you salted the fish and preserved it, then how did you cook it later?

	J:	Usually, my mother or sister would soak the fish overnight and we would have it for breakfast the following morning. And it was made in a stew rather than frying, of course, my mother seasoned it very well and she usually served it with grits and hot biscuits in the mornings for breakfast, which was a very good meal. And also, she could make jellies from the sea grapes and the guavas on the island.

So there for our breakfast we would have the highly-seasoned—they were very well-seasoned—stewed fish, grits, hot biscuits, and jelly.

	M:	Yum!



	J:	Which was a very nice meal. One thing I remember about my breakfasts or meals at that time is we didn’t have milk. Up until the time that we moved to Fort Meyers, in Sanibel, the family always owned the cows so there was always milk and butter. And my favorite drink of milk was the buttermilk. I despised the fresh milk for some reason, it just didn’t go well with me. But the buttermilk was very good. We had a churn that the children had to do for my mother to make the butter. That was a daily happening. We also had chickens on Sanibel, well, everywhere else that we lived, when we were on the farm, we always had chickens. But that was another specialty, my mother would serve chicken twice a





week at least. We always had chicken on Thursdays and Sundays, that was a meal that we could look forward to. One of the odd things I would think of my dad, he only ate the chicken wing. He never ate any other portion of the chicken. I used to wonder, why doesn’t he eat any other part of the chicken? I said, “Well, I guess it’s the more for us.” But he would only eat the chicken wing. So, we knew that the chicken wing, whether it was fried or stewed—and my mother always prepared two chickens on that day. One she would stew and one she would fry. So on Thursdays we had fried chicken, stewed chicken, rice, some kind of vegetable, maybe biscuits and cornbread. We usually had very good meals. But we knew that the wings were reserved for our father. Now, about school, I said earlier that I attended the first school for Blacks on Sanibel. That was the year of 1927-1928. Mrs. Hazel Hammon was the schoolteacher. And there was probably twelve to fourteen children from the families, maybe not that many but enough for us to have this school. It was a one-room school and Mrs. Hammon taught all the classes. And I’m sure there were at least from beginners through the sixth grade that particular year. Because my sister Bernice was in the sixth grade. I was in the fourth grade and my brother John was in the fifth grade. Mrs. Hammon lived in the near vicinity of the school, across the street and—I don’t know if it was a house or a barn that had a—or maybe not a barn or let’s say the carriage house, more or less, because I can remember a carriage being either at that building under the shed or a building close by. She was within easy walking distance, less than five minutes away from the schoolhouse where she lived. Now, Mrs. Hammon taught school there for quite a few years but I only





attended there one year. So, there’s nothing too much that I can say past the year of [19]27- [19]28 but I do remember that she was there for several years. My uncle, Harry Walker, who had lived on Sanibel since about 1925, Harry Walker is my mother’s brother. And he moved his family from Georgia to Sanibel and they lived and worked there with my father until he passed. And Harry and his family remained on the island for many, many years more. In fact, until his death. And one of the experiences that I recall him having there of his having there on Sanibel, I think this is after all the children are grown and it’s just he and his wife living there on Sanibel. And there in one of the houses, one of the two-story building houses that I mentioned somewhere earlier, they would come to town occasionally. They would come into Fort Meyers occasionally on the weekends and maybe come in Saturday or come in Friday afternoon and go back to Sanibel on Mondays. But this particular weekend, when they returned to Sanibel, their house had burned. Totally so. Now, the feeling there, he and his wife so far as the burning, is that it was not an accident. That the house had been set purposefully and a very short time ago, within the past month or six weeks I would say, Harry Junior told me that the house was burned and the people who burned it thought that his mother and father were in the building and the intention was to burn them up in the building. A horrifying thing to think about, but it so happened that week that both of them came to town whereas some weeks one or the other might remain on the island. But it just so happened that week they both came to town and neither of them were in the house, so he feels that that is one of the things that saved him. Because the person who set the fire had some





grudge against him for what reasons, he didn’t know. He did tell me the name of the person, he said this was someone who had many meals with his mother and father there in their home. And it was a White man. But for what reason he would do this, he didn’t know. It wasn’t for some grudge or nothing, but they have a feeling that this was the person who set the fire.

	M:	Did you tell me that Harry Walker was able to acquire land—own land—in Sanibel. He lived there until what, his death in the [19]70s?

	J:	Harry lived on Sanibel for many years. From 1925 on to his death in the [19]70s, at least the mid- [19]70s. And no, he never owned land. And he said that he couldn’t own land because the Black people were not sold land on Sanibel. I know this is one of the places that my father had never owned land, and usually wherever he lived at the time he always bought and built a house. And this never occurred on Sanibel. But my Uncle Harry, who spent more than fifty years there on Sanibel, didn’t buy land because he was told that land was not to be sold to Blacks. And this is one of the reasons he didn’t buy when he could’ve bought, had that reasonable price. Because there was no Black family on Sanibel, and the old families like the Hearses and the Gavins, the Carrs. Real funny, who owned property there. In another incident, I’m referring to my uncle and housing, after the house was burned, he moved in a little—by this time, it was really a shack. Nothing hardly more than a room and a half or something like that. The Carrs had lived there at one time and it had been a fairly decent two-story building with a—of course, he used the ground floor for his packing house and barn and that type of thing and he and his wife lived on the second story. But





during one of the hurricanes, the house had blown down and was now just what was left of it was just a room and a half or two rooms at the most. And this was where my uncle and I were living at our last days on Sanibel. And the story that I’m about to get to is he was paying rent to Bailey, one of the Bailey boys now. The old man is dead. But his namesake, Francis, is the one in control of the shipping company and whatever else. And he’s charging my uncle rent for this shack, and years later, my cousin and his wife finds out that Bailey did not own the place and he was making a joke about it. As to how he charged Harry rent and he didn’t own the property. So, I guess that gives you the nature of the Baileys, how and where and how they feel about things. Because the old man did it, now the sons did it, it’s a big joke. In referring to Mrs. Hammon in school, I guess we’re going around randomly here but I’m not sure but I have a feeling that she was still teaching there when they moved from this little packing building to what is known as the Schoolhouse Gallery now, which was probably a couple of blocks at the most from the first building. And it was located there on the corner of the Tarpon Bay Road and the Island End Road and a church building. Now, this church was sitting there empty from the very first time we went to Sanibel in 1924 and through the years, I don’t know what year they started using it as a school building, it was never used. It just sat there. In very good shape, that’s probably why they finally let them use it for the Black school.

	M:	Is the building still there today? And it’s Schoolhouse Gallery?



	J:	Mmhm, it’s still there today sitting. And someone started an art studio there, that’s why.





	M:	Do they mention in the history of it that it once was a Black school?



	J:	I have never seen that anywhere. But they always say the Schoolhouse Gallery.



But I’ve never seen in any of the newspaper write-ups or anything or when they’re—And I’ve seen one or two stories about the owners there. But I think that I’ve never seen it mentioned—

	M:	I wonder if they know.



	J:	I’m sure they do. It’s a schoolhouse, that’s why. They gotta know it, that at one time that served as a Black school.

	M:	Was it ever used for students who were not Black?



	J:	No. It was never used, because Sanibel Elementary School, I guess that’s what it was called, which was located not very far west of the Cassabelle Road there on Periwinkle. Which today houses one of the local theaters on Sanibel. I think it’s called—I don’t know if it’s called the Schoolhouse Playhouse or something of that nature. But there’s a pirate, there’s two theaters there. And this would be the one nearest to the island’s center. I’d say the Island Center right near where Jerry’s store is and some of the shopping centers there.

	M:	Well, you also talked about church services out there. You said, we had the church before we had the school because it was the same building used for the school classroom. And y0ou remembered going down to the church service.

Your mother, you thought, packed a lunch. And the horses Bill and Pat pulled the wagon and you stayed there for Sunday school. But you told us that much, that’s where you said these were done but who did the services and what sort of services did you have?





	J:	The church and such was organized by my father. Now, I do remember that early on, when we first went to Sanibel, that we did not have this church service. It was after we moved off the beach, inland, to the housing there near the present-day Sanibel Elementary School, down in that area of the island, that my father started the church service. And of course, the Johnson family and I imagine the Gavins and probably Whit Carr and his wife attended. I think the Preshays hadn’t come to the island yet, nor had my uncle, because this is 1924. But we did ride down the island, which this is a low roughly five miles from where we lived to this building. And my father drove the team of horses, we went down and had a Sunday school service and they had a church service and of course he did the preaching and I imagine he taught the Sunday school as well. I do remember on those occasions that my mother prepared a lunch and after the early service, we had our lunch and later on, we had a short service in the afternoon and we loaded onto the wagon and drove home again. In later years is when there were more families on the island, and maybe before the school started, before the first schoolyear, they had the Christmas tree there. Because I do remember or recall them having these programs, I believe it was Christmas Eve, I think. They would have a program of singing, speeches or poems, quoting or something of that nature. And there were gifts that were passed out and there were fruits and nuts and candies and everything that would delight a child. There may not have been too much of the things like presents or that sort, but the line of stuff—most of it was gifts for the children because the edible things. And of course, it was a delight to us because this was something that had been unusual. This was not an





everyday happening. And I think we all enjoyed it, including the elders, because everybody participated. You could do anything or take part. So it was quite enjoyable.

	M:	You mentioned on time that your brother worked on the WPA Project that built the water tank, which is today’s Imaginarium. That was during the Depression. Do you have any idea what he was paid or how many people worked on it?

	J:	No, I don’t. The pay was not too much, because, actually, I believe during that time if a person working on a job was being paid seventy-five cents or a dollar an hour, he was very well pleased to have the job, at that time.

	M:	Was there a big work force? A lot of men?



	J:	I don’t know, on this particular project I would say that it was not that many men. I can remember being down there myself one or two days—I don’t know if it was that particular, but it was in the same area.

	M:	Was it to supply—I’m sorry. J:	Go ahead with your question.

	M:	No, it was more interesting what you were saying.



	J:	I was saying about this project there at the City Works, this was the City Works for the gas and the water at that time. And they were building this tank for the water system, it’s part of the water system. And my brother worked there. Now, he worked on other projects also because the men were given a few days of work practically weekly, I imagine, for a period of time. I really don’t know how that went, but I do know maybe a couple of days, he would go and work with this group. But really, I don’t know what I was doing down there. I was there a couple





of days or so and they were either tearing down some kind of a wooden building or getting something else together. I think maybe I was there because my brother had brought me down because they needed someone else to help or something. Because I know I was still in school and they were—they didn’t have my name down on the list as to being one of the people who would be employed in the WPA Projects, you know, this Works thing. But at that time, the few days I was there, I would say there was less than ten men or about ten men at the most working around the place.

	M:	Was it a Black labor crew exclusively?



	J:	It was a mixed crew, more or less. It was a mixed crew. M:	All young men?

	J:	Yes, maybe not the youngest of young because everybody who could do anything was glad to—that they were given this work.

	M:	You talked in an interview about the chef at the Rendezvous when you first worked at the Rendezvous and how he had been a cook in the White House under several presidents. Did you happen to think of his name?

	J:	I don’t recall his name. In reading last night, I ran across that and for the life of me, I couldn’t think of their name. I know they were—well, at the end of the season, they always went to Miami for a couple of days at the racetrack. He enjoyed that and I understand he and to put clamps on his wife to kind of hold her down because she was really very enthusiastic about making bets. But they would go down and the end of the season and spend a couple of days in Miami before they returned North, and I thought that was kind of odd. But then too, they





had worked hard all winter and that was seven days a week. And they were not young people. They got a kick out of the horse races.

	M:	You mentioned when you were working at the Rendezvous that you had a savings account at First National Bank and you mentioned that during the time you were saving money there were some boys who attended Dunbar and roomed with you all. It struck me later, these boys roomed with you who were high school students from Punta Gorda, but your parents had both died and you were responsible for roomers?

	J:	Well, I guess my brother was more or less in charge of whatever there because he was the oldest. And these boys, two brothers and then another fellow from Punta Gorda, that picture over there, the first year that they were here, the Haynes boys, Booker T. Haynes and Theodore Smith was the other.

	M:	How do you spell his name?



	J:	T-H-E-O—however you spell Theodore. M:	But that was his nickname, “Thedo”?

	J:	“Thedo” Smith. And Booker T. Haynes and—what was it called— M:	We have that—

	J:	Static on—



	M:	Oh, the radio?



	J:	No, we called him Static because he talked so much. Static Haynes, I can’t think of the boy’s name right now. But then they came to live with us. I think this was maybe the second or third year because there was another fellow from Punta





Gorda at this time when the money was being taken. But in the end, I always had a feeling that is was my neighbor next-door in the back of me—

	M:	But what I wondered about was that, you know, that you all were such entrepreneurs, even as children, young adults who had no parents. You still had roomers of kids attending Dunbar during the week. Very enterprising.

	J:	It was a big house. I don’t know who recommended them to come there, but my brother consented to accept them if they were willing to put up with the situation there. And it all worked out. My sister was away at school at this time and she said now you’re on your own so everybody had to cook for themselves or somebody—I think Booker T. took up the cooking. He took on the cooking, sure. [Laughter] And they would get something going in the evenings and have some food there somewhere, we did something. Looking back now, I wonder about really how did that go? Really, how did it go? But everybody was happy and well pleased, because I know these two girls that were here living with the Barkers from Punta Gorda, and the brother came over—this is the younger brother who had come over and I believe the two girls were the same class, I believe. But they are graduating, well, this boy comes, they want him of course to go live up there where they had lived on Evans Avenue with the Barkers. A fashionable part of town. And this boy wanted to come out there and live with the other boys, and he insisted on it and he did it. He said, “I’m not going out there I’m gonna stay out here with these other guys.” Because now here I’m away from home and had nobody to tell me what. I can imagine. So, the only regulation and rules he had





was at Dunbar, so when he came home and didn’t have anybody to tell him what time to come home at night, that was a thing.

	M:	Next thing, I know, okay, when you graduated from high school and then made it through the Depression and World War II started, you described how you were rejected—a happily rejected—from service when you went to Camp Blanding.

But all of your brothers were enlisted except for you and you would have been too. And I thought there was a limit to how many boys in a family could serve, especially a family without parents.

	J:	I know, but that never occurred to us.



	M:	if there was a limit, no one mentioned it to you. And then I wanted to ask you about this, when you carried newspapers you were delivering newspapers and had a productive newspaper delivery route for a period of time, and you’ve also described the family that read the newspaper. Did you feel that the things in your community should have been reported more or did you feel that it wasn’t covered in the news? You were delivering the Tampa paper anyway, right?

	J:	I was delivering the Tampa paper, hmm, that was 1933 or 1934 until I went away to college in September of—

	M:	Part of the Depression. But maybe did the Tampa paper cover Fort Meyers news?

	J:	No, not at that time. There was no news that I could recall about Fort Meyers. And my brother James by this time had—well, before I graduated high school I think he was carrying the newspaper, the Fort Meyers news press. I think it was the news press by then, the two papers had combined, The Tribune and the Fort





Meyers Press. Afternoon and morning papers. And when they combined of course, it became just the morning paper. But my brother James was carrying the Fort Meyers paper and a friend of mine, we were pretty close, we grew up together, I was at his house he was at my house and even until his death he moved away to Miami after school and whatnot. But the question there about the local news and the Blacks, there was never ever during this period of time news about the Black community. You know, you wonder why and I’ve heard you express this in a way about I guess you and Mrs. Sago, somebody, I think it was you, the cutoff here was no information about the Black people back in the [19]20s and the [19]30s, before that or since that. Today, when I read the newspaper I see the pictures of Blacks, sometimes they’ve committed a crime in most instances and then there are other times that it’s a nice story about them, whatever, their picture is in the paper. But I think back when that was unheard of. I think if the editors—whoever is in charge of the newspaper—had had that picture of a Black person in the paper in the [19]30s or [19]20s, they would’ve had to go out of business or wish they had not shown this because there was never news—even if some crime was committed, maybe, if it were mentioned, they would always let you know that it was a Black person. But that wasn’t even much of that. And now, you see the department store ads and whatnot, they even have pictures of Black models and whatnot, Black everything, I’d say that’s just a far cry from what I was thinking when I was looking on my thirty-year business. But my vein of thought in that thirty-year thing did not encompass anything like on the social side of whatever here in this community. Because you





were out there and that was it, you weren’t mentioned, you were dead, so far as the town was—

	M:	Invisible.



	J:	Right, yeah.



	M:	Did you mention that your grandfather, John Henry Johnson, had a Van Buren beard and you’ve seen pictures that your cousins had in North Carolina and you’re going to see if maybe you can get to those someday. I presume you’re still going to get to those someday.

	J:	Yeah, hopefully. I was very disappointed because after I didn’t get away in July, I thought, it came up for here in August. And my brother had called and we talked and he said his son was getting married there in Durham. That’s the brother that was just here, James. I forgotten the date now but right around the time that I would have gone, and it was during the hurricane time because they were affected with it, you said they were without electricity there in Durham for the entire time they were at the motel, they didn’t have hot water or whatever. But my wife was one of these people who, she’s afraid to be at home alone. She said, “I can’t get anyone to stay with me so,” that killed this. And I’m thinking now that this has been going on, this is the second year definitely the second year that this has been postponed—

	M:	It would be nice if you could go and do that



	J:	Yeah, but see now another year and who knows, maybe I’ll be dead. Whoever, or the people I want to talk to, whatever.





	M:	It would be wonderful if you could go copy those somewhere. You mentioned being out at the beach where your dad and your brother John, you and your brother John caught frogs out at near Miner’s Corner. That reminded me of the beach parties out there, that some of the high school classes had parties, did your high school class have any type of a beach party or beach days or a May 20th celebration, I’m looking at celebrations now.

	J:	No, to be truthful about Fort Meyers beach, I’m sure that’s what you’re referring to because that’s what you were referring to.

	M:	An organized celebration.



	J:	There was nothing ever there. In fact, Fort Meyers Beach was off limits to Black people.

	M:	Well, the beach that Mr. Brown described, the beach out at— J:	Bunche Beach?

	M:	Yeah, Bunche Beach. Did you all ever have celebrations out there or outings?



	J:	yes, because that was where you were supposed to go as a Black person, that was your beach, that was the county’s property and they had set that aside for the Black people, that’s your beach. Because one or two men even had a kind of a business place there, a restaurant and bar-like thing out there. That was about the only thing that I can recall that was there. Nobody ever built housing. Now, in 1946, there was a young lady here from Virginia and she had worked at Fort Meyers Beach at the Fort Meyers Beach Hotel and that was one of the things she said to me, “Jacob if they ever start selling the property here,” referring to Bunch Beach, “let me know. Because I would like to buy a lot out here. If they





ever start selling the land,” which of course they never had, in fact, today I think it is exclusively used by White people, today. But getting back to Fort Meyers Beach say in the—even in the mid-[19]30s, around that period of time, my principal relates the story to me and it probably would have had to take place after I graduated in [19]35 and he was here until [19]38. And he speaks of having taken a group of kids to Fort Meyers Beach and the sign about their reading “Niggers and Dogs Not Allowed,” now this was a sign there at Fort Meyers Beach. I don’t know if it was there before crossing the bridge there or before that, but anyway, he went down and some way or another he worked out something, but I think he had to go through the superintendent of schools and somebody else because he relates having had the home economics teacher prepare this lunch and he had the schoolboard members and the superintendent and blah blah blah out for this lunch. And how they were speaking to Mrs. Farms, come on down and have lunch with us. But he refused, eh said, well this wasn’t a thing that was done at this period so I just didn’t do it. No, you folk go in and enjoy yourself. And that is how he had to get the school down to the beach was through this action with feeding the school board and the superintendent. So he said, “This is the deeds of getting something done.” So he did it.

	M:	Did he get it done?



	J:	He did it, yeah. He did go, definitely. M:	What was his last name?

	J:	Forrest, that was his last name. F-O-R-R-E-S-T. David C. He passed away ninety-six years old, April the 30th.





	M:	Of this year?



	J:	Yeah. He was a very active man and a surprising one. His daughter called me and told me that he had passed and she had just moved down, she had just been down about six weeks or a little better. No, no, no I got that wrong. That was in September, I was there at a football game and she was working, she had taken a job in the school system there. And she had just been down six weeks so this was back in September. So, she had come down from New York to live with him. His wife passed away, she took sick immediately after retirement and sometime in July she went into a coma, she never came out of it. She was at the hospital for four or six weeks or something, kind of a drastic thing I thought.

	M:	It is drastic. And retirement is traumatic for people, it’s such a big change to the schedule. You mentioned Mrs. Clara Session had a sister, her mother’s sister was Mrs. Kelley and I wondered if you knew any first name for Mrs. Kelley.

	J:	No I don’t. It’s a funny thing, now I knew Mrs. Session’s mother, but her first name, last name—

	M:	Do we have that in the record already, Mrs. Session’s mother’s name? J:	I don’t know, we might have—

	M:	What was it?



	J:	Melissa Jones.



	M:	Oh yes, we do have that. Do we have a maiden name for Melissa Jones? J:	No, I don’t know that.

	M:	Jumping to another subject here, you said you went out, thank you very much, and interviewed Betty Perkins Floyd on August 8th. And you said that she said





Silva Allen Summerall was a member of a White East Fort Meyers Family. What would she have meant by East Fort Meyers? Would she mean out in the country?

	J:	No, just here in fort Meyers we refer to East Fort Meyers when we talk about—I guess crossing at Palm Beach Boulevard, when you cross Billy Branch out here with the WINK TV station, is East Fort Meyers. Then a little farther is Tice, then a little farther out was Russell Park and all that was going east. Now, who we’re talking about in the rules, you’d maybe refer to Buckingham.

	M:	But if we say East Fort Meyers—



	J:	We were talking about an extension of downtown Fort Meyers. M:	Okay, part of the downtown.

	J:	Yeah, I would say. Well, maybe you don’t know the area but a mile or two, a couple of miles out from—Because now Billy Creek would be from downtown Fort Meyers Billy Creek would be less than a mile. So we kind of talk about that when we say east Fort Meyers we’re talking about heading down in that part of town.

	M:	And she said that they still had relatives living out there now who are White. Do you remember the story you told me, not when we were interviewing on tape but when we were just doing our work sessions for our report, and you said that somebody had been—and I don’t remember if it was you or someone else—at the house of one of the Perkins’s when a White man came and someone said to the woman in the house, “Is there some cracker here?” And that turned out to be a cousin.





	J:	Oh, yeah.



	M:	Could that maybe the same family? J:	That’s the same family.

	M:	And were their names Summerall? J:	I don’t know that.

	M:	But all those years they were interacting.



	J:	Right, because I’ve been hearing some of them from what I gather, I’m not sure that some of them lived even out here in Pinetucket with them, some of the White relatives.

M:  Now this is—when you say when somebody said, “There’s some cracker at the front door,” they meant by that a White person, right? Any class of white person or just a white person?

J:   Just a White person, I think.



M:  And your whole experience you’ve never heard a Black person referred to as a cracker?

J:   No.



M:   Well I brought you this article from the Sarasota—



	J:	But I have read something kind of where a Black person is being referred to as a cracker but I think it goes back to the area they were living in and whatever the vibe was referred to that way. Because I really don’t know, I think it’s stupid—

	M:	Because I had a call from the newspaper wanting to be quoted on a story about crackers, I brought it for you. And because of our experiences over the past month I decided not to comment—[Laughter]—on that photo in that story. So you





changed what I can comment on. How I would say it? I have—let’s see, your family lived in Lincoln Park and you described where you lived out there and I wondered who else lived out there and how your family happened to settle out there because when you were a little boy it was a new subdivision and the streets weren’t finished yet and there weren’t many people out there but you were definitely on the edge of town and I wondered who your neighbors were and why did you settle there?

	J:	Hm, not other than my father wanted to locate housing for the family. I guess now this is we’re on Sanibel and after this incident my family moved to Sanibel, this is June of [19]24. Now, we remain on Sanibel until at least after Christmas of 1924, in the meantime my father had come to town somewhere in that period of time near the Christmas holiday, somewhere towards the end of the year and located this house and rented it to move the family into town so we could go back into school. Now, we’d been out of school, say, the first semester so he wants to get us here so we can at least get a half term of school. But now why he selected that, I don’t know. But it was considered a better part of town, let’s just say that. It was kind of a new area, and not many houses were out there but there were some houses and families living scattered around and about. The house we moved into, there were several people within that block because we had a next- door neighbor and next to that house was another family and there were two rental houses just east of that house and then there was another family east of these two houses and there were about three houses with this family in the corner. And across the street from us there were one, two, three houses, three





families, on the north side of Price Street, between Prince Street and Brown Street there on Price Avenue. Now, Lincoln Park was subdivided by Mr. CP Franklin. And he had the streets laid out but we had nothing but just grated sand streets, there was no pavement whatsoever out there. Anderson Avenue ran through as far east I think as Fourth Street or a little farther. And it was paved to an extent, that was that old oyster shell place with the black top on it.

	M:	Was it a better part of town because the lots were bigger and it was laid out better?

	J:	I really don’t know; I couldn’t say that but I just knew— M:	A newer subdivision?

	J:	Yeah, I just feel that this man had an opportunity here because I believe they had been farming out there because I think here there were at least two artisanal wells in the area, even on beyond me and where I live today, a block away and farther east. And then there was one I think, south of me. I think people had farms around there, to get some of their property and decided well, I’ll subdivide it and sell it to Black families. Now, most of the Black people were living in the Bottom and Pinetucket before this, and then there were a few families on Pine Avenue and then this Blount Subdivision, I think they referred to that just east of Pal.

	M:	You mentioned the incident back there, and of course you mean the murders of Milton Wilson and RJ Johnson, and I wondered if you could figure out, make an educated guess on what their ages were.





	J:	I would think that neither boy was more than—if they were sixteen, I would prefer to say, fourteen. If they were that old. Maybe fourteen. Some kids back then were, for whatever class they were in, they were a little bit older than how we see today.

	M:	For the very reason you just described some school years you weren’t in school the whole year.

	J:	Right, but these boys were running errands for these druggers. So I figured maybe fourteen. If they were sixteen, but now I think at sixteen they would have graduated Dunbar, it only went to eighth grade. And if they were in school, at the time they would have been—

	M:	if they were fourteen or fifteen, they would have only been a year or two behind themselves. And you know—

	J:	Eighth grade, keep in mind, eighth grade.



	M:	I’m thinking of it; an eighth grader is typically twelve or thirteen. So if they were two years behind.

	J:	They could have been sixteen.



	M:	They could have been sixteen but they might very well have been fourteen.



	J:	And that’s the way I feel, my feelings are that they were more near fourteen than sixteen.

	M:	Well the way you described Milton Wilson, he was a boy you looked on as a boy.



And a sixteen-year-old to a kid as little as you looked pretty old. And you were looking at him more as a boy than as somebody out in your age group, which makes me think maybe thirteen or fourteen might be more like it too. You said





that Mary McCloud Bethune came to your school at least twice, can you describe how she looked or what the aura was of that or what she did?

	J:	Mrs. Bethune was I don’t know how to describe her—she was a very brilliant woman.

	M:	She was charismatic, she packed a punch. She made a big impression everywhere she went.

	J:	Yeah, she was, well, when we say Mary McCloud Bethune, we knew we were talking about a big lady. A big woman, heavy. She is the president; she is the founder of Bethune-Cookman college. She started this at her house or somewhere with three or four girls, and it grew from that. And when I talk about that time, of course, people they would go around and ask. They would go and make speeches, they’d beg, they did everything to get money to get in and that’s what she did. And it grew and grew and grew. She’s buried there on the campus at Bethune.

	M:	Can you remember what she wore, how close to her did you get? Did she step up to the podium?

	J:	I’m right there in the audience. I saw her at least twice here in Fort Meyers and I’m trying to think if I saw her at Florida A&M. People would come in to speak here, Mr. Forrest, Mr. Dixon, they used to have speakers to come. I remember she either spoke at—I think it was baccalaureate, I may have missaid commencement. The commencement exercises rather than the baccalaureate. Because on baccalaureate being on Sundays, they usually get someone from the religious area to speak at that time on Sundays. And on graduate night, the





commencement program it was usually somebody from education or something like that. And I do remember Mrs. Bethune doing one of those or maybe both occasions, it may have been different years that she came and spoke. But I do remember seeing her at least twice in Fort Meyers. Mrs. Bethune was not a pretty woman by far. She was very dark in color and complexion, and her features were not molded as a Mrs. America. She was typical, we would say, Afro-American, I think, and she was slightly on—she wasn’t say, heavy, but she wasn’t a skinny woman. She was probably about five feet two, something like that, and it seems to me that she wore her hair kind of in a swirl.

	M:	On top of her head?



	J:	Kind of, like a weave around. Actually, I think you know, just to say, I assume she was dressed in dark clothes, I don’t know what. Very dynamic speaker—gave some good directions.

	M:	Do you remember anything she may have said that inspired you? How close to her did you get? Did she shake hands with you? Did she mix with the students?

J:  Np, I don’t remember her mixing with the students but then I guess after the service they probably did celebrate teachers and some of the townspeople, perhaps, off with her.

	M:	At the time, she came to your school she was an advisor to President Roosevelt, so she must have had a pretty tight schedule, I would think.

	J:	I think she was on the go-go-go quite often. I tell you one thing, that school changed after her demise, I’m sure.

	M:	How did it change?





	J:	I think saying how it changed, to me, I said— I was never there when she was alive but I don’t know, just looking when I did get there, some of the things that I saw on the campus wouldn’t have—

	M:	She was pretty fierce. I mean, she was a fierce administrator. You know, you brought in one time a photograph of your high school team, a black-and-white photograph. And the next time we meet, I would love if you could bring it back and we could run it over somewhere and copy it. You could take it right back home; you wouldn’t have to part with it. I would love to copy that photograph.

	J:	Of the football team?



	M:	Yes! It’s a marvelous photograph. That’s another photograph that you’ve mentioned that I think we need to mention here because it’s a very valuable photograph and it should be copied. [Break in interview]

	M:	This is Tape 2, October 3rd, interview with Mr. Jacob Johnson who is kindly putting up with the same terrible schedule he has always put up with since we started this. Moving on, you mentioned that Mr. Wheeler used the band room and that it might have been the Williams Academy reused. Do you have any further thoughts on that?

	J:	Did you say Wheeler? M:	Yes, Mr. Wheeler.

	J:	Mr. Wheeler, Williams Academy wouldn’t have been—this was after my time, even. But Mr. Wheeler came here because he had to leave to go into service. So the war was going on, he was only here for one school year, as I recall. So that must have been about [19]41, [19]42, someplace. [19]42 perhaps.





	M:	So you don’t know anything about him and Williams Academy, as a band?



	J:	You said Wheeler, didn’t you? No, William’s Academy, nobody even thought of music at Williams Academy.

	M:	No, but I mean in [19]41, [19]42 when Williams Academy building is at their—



	J:	It would seem as if Lloyd said something about the music they used some



portion over there as the music and the band room.



	M:	Yeah, and it could’ve been the addition, the building that’s been moved to—



	J:	Yeah, it’s possible, that. Yeah. It’s a funny thing, I don’t recall that structure as such but then I do remember it being over there. Because I recall Mrs. Sessions, when they moved that building over there, she’d stand out there with that bell ringing. At least, I heard the kids talk but I never personally saw her do it myself. But I did know that family very well, in fact, I still keep in touch with her daughter today, she’s the last of ‘em.

	M:	Oh, you do?



	J:	Yeah, she lives in Albany, Georgia.



	M:	I wanted you to mention, again, because we don’t have it on this tape recording but you had described how the Sportsman’s Club formed in 1946 at the end of the war and how that was how the name Dunbar used for the whole community came to be. And I wondered if you wanted to just repeat that conversation that you had before for the tape.

J:  Yes, as I recall I mentioned the forming of the Sportsman’s Club here in [19]46. It was the spring of the year and the fellows were returning home from the war and it seems to me that, to be truthful about it, I don’t know really how it came to be





but I do know it involved Leo Sears. And we met at his funeral home, this was our meeting place. And everybody, it seemed, was interested in becoming a member because I was thinking at one time there was too many of us, it was growing too fast. I thought it was really out of control, well, it was something that created some interest and I guess that’s why everybody was anxious to become a member. They elected officers and whatever else that goes along with this kind of thing and I know Mr. Sears said, “Well, we need to get a charter and we’ll apply for that.” And eventually we did get the charter. In fact, I have it at my house somewhere today, actually. I don’t know where, this is one of the things that I plan to give to the Black history museum when they got going, hopefully, at least they will have it. Even though the chapter is now defunct and has been for quite a few years. But Mr. Sears thought, and it was one of his suggestions and we thought also, the relationship for the races at that time was quite negative, I would say. Now these guys are coming home from the war and telling of their experiences and what they’re getting back to at home, nothing has changed. We still had the Bottom. We still had Safety Hill and we still had Niggertown, so this was one of the reasons Mr. Sears suggested that, “I think we should get a different name and let the people downtown know what that name is and maybe they would use that and preface with some of the names that they are labeling us with.” We don’t like Safety Hill and they surely didn’t like that other one. Dunbar is our place in the community that we are all involved in or evolved around or this is the place that we, everybody, gets a good feeling about. This is our school, and whatever happens it seems as if all the good things is around that area. So





maybe we will call the—It would be a nice name, perhaps, if we call our section of town Dunbar. And, of course, we all agreed on that. And I think, I’m not positive, that he was going to send a note to the news press stating this fact, that the Black area of town would be denoted as Dunbar rather than Safety Hill. And that’s how it came to be. Leo R. Sears was the person who first suggested that we use that word. Now, of course, when we were referring to Dunbar, actually, we were actually talking about this little area that we have here. And at the time, Lincoln Park only extended, I think it was about four blocks from Palm and five blocks south of Anderson. And on the north side of Anderson in this area, there was nothing other than the Dunbar High School. Dunbar High School sat on High Street there as the only building on the east side of High Street for quite a few years. There were several houses and the Jones-Walker Hospital on the west side of High Street. I believe there were about two houses directly in front of the high school. North of the high school were palmettos and pine. Southeast of the high school, practically the same thing. At a distance across the canal out there was a citrus grove, but you couldn’t see the grove from the school. Shortly after the school was built there, maybe three or four years after the school was built a man built a house right at the border of the school property, and that house sat there for many years before there were any other buildings. He had a path through the palmettos to his house. Blount Street was not extended, in fact, Blount Street ended right there at High. It did not pass by the school building because we would stand around outside under the palm trees and play around out there during recess time for many years. Funny thing, many years later my





uncle bought this house and this is where they came on weekends whenever they were in Fort Meyers because he had bought this property, so maybe he would have bought property on Sanibel had he been allowed to do so. But it was quite a few years later before the area east of High Street and south of Dunbar High School was developed. I remember we used to go out, it was just like going out in the woods because there was nothing laid out, there was no subdividing or anything. Buck McColloch and Homer Cox were the developers out in that area, I think they bought the property up, had it subdivided, and named the streets, I guess, because one street is named for Mr. Cox out there now. And I guess they sold it off. And McColloch built several houses on Raleigh that he had for rent at least there was about five of those houses he built out there to rent. Lincoln Park has grown from the time that I first moved out here. Several other families had bought and some people had built rental property and the park had grown to an extent. But we still had sandy streets and that sort of thing.

There was no paving in the area until—I don’t know what year now, but many years later before the city came in and gridded out. And I think they were still doing the oyster bed base and putting a blacktop on that. Since that time, a few years ago all this was piled up and the streets were done differently and we had sidewalks and I put in a good drainage system and all that. And now it’s very well done, except some of the housing now is run-down and whatnot. But the city has been pushing most of those down trying to get the people to rehab them or whatever. But one of the sad things, this happened to one of the oldest houses in the area that was built since I lived in Lincoln Park, the Braddocks, who had





lived on Lincoln Boulevard in the same block that I first lived in the same area. I was on Price Street, Lincoln Boulevard is the next street south of me. And Mr. Braddocks had a very large family. In fact, some of the kids were grown and some of them were as young as I was and younger. Built this large house on Lincoln Boulevard about two blocks east and down through the years, now all the Braddocks are gone—

	U:	Sorry to interrupt, it’s almost 11:30, I just wanted to check on how you guys are doing with your time because we’re going to be needing the room shortly.

	J:	The Braddocks had all gone away, moved elsewhere, married and died out and whatever goes on with living and life. But the youngest son, who had been living in New York City came back to Fort Meyers a few years ago and was living in the house. But he took suddenly ill and died, so there’s nobody here. The house was sitting there empty for over a period of time and that’s one thing, I don’t know who does it, but there’s a group that goes around or a person or it seems that it’s a businessman, and he goes around and takes out all of the windows, the aluminum framework in the windows, and I guess he just he can sell the aluminum and the glass, I think they buy the glass too. And this is a large house, the front porch had been done in with these aluminum windows and I imagine that house was a good forty feet from the front to the back and probably twenty- five feet or more wide. And just think of all the windows! Both sides of the house, back and front, and just to see that—You pass the other day and here’s all this open area. These gaping holes looking at you. And besides that, this boy had had aluminum siding put on the place after he came and moved in, so shortly





after they got the windows they came back and took the aluminum siding so the house really looks awful. And, of course, the city has put a condemned sign on it and whatever but it should never have happened, I feel.

	M:	What a shame.



	J:	It’s really a shame and it’s really an eyesore but what are you going to do.



	M:	It bet it is, that’s terrible. When you were a little boy living there, what did you call your neighborhood, did y0ou call it Lincoln Park?

	J:	Yes, we referred to the neighborhood as Lincoln Park, which we don’t anymore. If you were to say Lincoln Park hardly anyone would know what you were talking about.

	M:	So, in retrospect do you think—Oh, and you had also said the Sportsman Club had fundraisers in June or July and sponsored activities. You said they sponsored, what, ballgames or something?

	J:	I really don’t know what all they did.



	M:	But you remember the fundraisers. And several football games, they sponsored several football games.

	J:	They did that too. It was short-lived. I think maybe if it had not had so many people it may have gone father but one of the—and for what reason, I don’t know, I wasn’t sure at the time—it just had too much money, I suppose. So they though, “Oh, let’s do something with the money.” And but it turned out, I understand, that they had this big party. I don’t know if it was a dance, I think they had food and everything but they spend the bulk of the money. And of course, the money is gone now and the interest kind of petered out. One of the





things they did was they put trashcans on Anderson. Someone suggested that would be a nice thing, to put trashcans along Anderson certain areas, the business area especially, where the people could put their trash instead of dropping it on the street. And that was really about the best thing that came out of the whole organization.

	M:	Except the name.



	J:	The name, yeah. Yeah, the name, so the name is here to stay with us. I wound up with the charter because I think it was floating around in different ones and nobody was doing anything and I came across it somewhere. So I thought I’d take it.

	M:	I would love to make a copy of that football picture next time we get together and I would also like to copy that and then were would be a back-up copy. If you can. If you can’t—Well, I want to thank you again. This has been our third taped session and we’ve been meeting since January and I can’t thank you enough for your patience with this, for your resourceful, comprehensive answers to represent something in the record that just doesn’t exist except for your effort, so thank you so much.

	J:	Thank you.





[End of interview]





Transcribed by: Abby Lovett June 29, 2021 Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, July 1, 2021





Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, July 6, 2021