AAHP 410; West; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 410 Janquez West

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Raja Rahim on May 12, 2016 15 minutes | 9 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 410

Interviewee: Janquez West Interviewer: Raja Rahim Date: May 12, 2016



	R:	Today’s date: May 12, 2016; location: Alachua, Florida at Paradise United Methodist Church; interviewer: Raja Rahim; interviewee, please state your full name.

	W:	My full name is Janquez West. R:	How old are you?

	W:	I am sixteen.



	R:	When were you born?



	W:	I was born March 2, 2000. R:	Where were you born?

	W:	In Alachua, Florida.



	R:	What is your home church?



	W:	My home church is Paradise United Methodist Church. R:	And have you been a member since you were born?

	W:	Yes, ma’am.



	R:	Were you baptized here?



	W:	I was baptized here and christened here.



	R:	How long have your family been a part of this church? W:	Roughly, about fifty years.

	R:	And how many family members do you have here? W:	I have here three.

	R:	Can you name them for us?





	W:	Actually I have four, sorry. I have my Auntie Cora and my Uncle Leon, they’re married together and they come here and sometimes they bring their children there, like my cousins Ollie and her husband Rodney and their two children Raquel and Asia. And then I have—Auntie Cora has her children there too, Emilia and Quentin and her daughter. And then I have my Auntie Jo, I live with her and she brings me here, and she’s the one who had me baptized here. And then I have my Auntie Margaret, she brings her grandson here sometimes and he’ll have a ballfield out here he’ll play around, I give him stuff to do around here and he really enjoys it here.

	R:	What do you do here at the church?



W:  I do acolyte and I try and help take care of the kids since I’m only sixteen and I’m like the oldest here as a member of the church. As a teen, I try and help them out and help out the adults with them.

R:   Can you explain acolyte to us?



	W:	Acolyte is a responsibility to bring the light out to God and show Him we’re here and even though He knows us here, it’s just a reminder and a message that, “hey, we love you, we want to praise you, we want to serve you.” So what I do is I put on this white robe and I don’t have to change my clothes or anything I just put it on, and I get this staff thing that has a hooked thing, like a shepherd’s hook kind of, and it has this little bell looking thing that puts out the smoke, and then I have this thing where I light it and I light the candles once it’s my time to light it.

	R:	What is your earliest memory of the church?





	W:	My earliest memory is when I was little and I would come here in my little princess dresses and I was obsessed with Disney princesses so I would wear them all the time and I have this—one of my friends here Ms. Bonnie, she would help the little kids and we would play around and I would remember going up there and I can’t sing I would try and sing Christian songs and stuff.

	R:	Can you tell me about the current pastor of the church?



	W:	The current pastor of the church, I try not to judge people and I try to see the good in people ‘cause I just like to even though nobody’s perfect, but she’s not— to my honest opinion, she’s not the best. I know we’ve had—even though I was a young girl—I know we’ve had better pastors and to me, if things don’t go her way, she doesn’t want it to be and she will tell the people who own this church, saying “they’re not following my rules.” I know I’ve heard that she’s changed around a lot of stuff, stuff that we did. Like, we had, even the church ourselves, we got together, we have soup kitchens and we give out soup and everything to people who don’t have food around this community and I’ve even helped with that, we’ll come and give out soup. And the one time we didn’t do it because we had somebody who was in this community for years, she passed away recently, and that’s the only reason why we didn’t have one that month and so, one of the guys who owns the church came down there and he said, “nobody’s there.” And I think it was because the pastor didn’t tell him, “hey, someone passed away. She was the great mother in our community, she’d helped people out no matter their background she didn’t care who they were.” I’ve even heard stories, even if kids were running around the street doing drugs and everything, she would take them





in. Even if they were about to get in trouble with the police, the police would even come there looking them out, and the police would even stop and change their mind because she would be there and they would ask, “hey, you got any food and stuff?” ‘Cause I’ve heard her cooking was good, and I haven’t been around her that much, but I know she was a good person and she was always sweet to me and her name was Ms. Esther and I loved her ‘cause she was a very sweet lady.

	R:	Ms. Esther, was Esther her first name? W:	Yes, ma’am I think so.

	R:	Do you know her last name? W:	Jenkins.

	R:	Esther Jenkins.



	W:	Um-hm.



	R:	Okay, so tell me a little bit about—



[Someone off mic asking a question] Can you say something about the other pastors that you’ve been with?

	W:	The other pastors that I’ve been with, I don’t remember most of their names ‘cause I was a little girl, but there was this one guy, he had this little kid and I would help him out. And his wife was there, and he was a very good pastor. He helped us, with him we got back into Sunday school and having meetings, like office meetings about stuff, and it would go on. And then a couple of others when I was younger, to me—I’m not sure if this was because I was a little kid—but I think everything went well. And then, there were other pastors like this one





pastor, he was—I forgot his name—Johnson, Pastor Johnson that’s all I remember his last name. But he would have good speeches and everything and I think because those, the bad boys, I remember they would come here, and they would come to his sermons sometimes and I know they were laughing, but to me I think they were getting into it by the way he would make noises when he would preach he would go [makes a singing sound] and stuff like that and I think they liked that. So I think he brought some goodness into it and made them interested and stuff, yeah.

	R:	Tell us about the role that this church plays in the local community now.



	W:	The role they play I’ve realized that we’ve helped out a lot. We’ve brought people in, like the bad boys, always dreaming, that’s what it stands for, they’ve come here for a couple of years, they’ve been able to have a community program there, they’ve had sheriffs come in and talk to them, they’ve learned so many values and it’s decreased the risk of them turning out not so good. We’ve helped with soup kitchen, like I said, we give out to the charities, and we also did a yard sale and we would give out clothes—it didn’t have to be for money, so it wasn’t a sale—but we would give out clothes no matter where they came from, shoes and I’ve looked and it was pretty nice stuff.

	R:	I’m assuming that you are kind of, you understand what’s currently going on with the church. What is your take on that?

	W:	My take on this is I don’t think it needs to be closed down, and I know it doesn’t and you can’t put a price on—I don’t care if you’re Buddhist, Christian, whatever—you can’t put a price on a religious place, that’s wrong. That’s where





humans as a people have come together and put in their beliefs and system and you can’t put a price on anything, that’s wrong. I know they’re only doing that because, as I view it, they just want to sell money and make the almighty dollar. They’ve never been through what these people in this community have been through and it makes me angry that they do that because they have no right to come in here say, “you haven’t done this, you haven’t done that,” when they don’t know firsthand what we’ve done. And me, as a sixteen year old, who’s lived here for just about my whole life, I know what they’ve done. I know what we’ve done and what we’ve been through. I may not have been through exactly the things that my family has been through during this time, during their time when they were growing up at my age, but I know a lot. And I’m not trying to—no, I’m not sorry and it makes me angry. There’s that one lady who’s doing this, besides the pastor, and she has constantly come in here and it makes me angry that she blames my auntie who has never said anything rude to her. I don’t know who called her, but somebody called her last year and told her, “Oh, you’re a blah blah blah,” and stuff like that I don’t know exactly what they said. So now, the lady blames it on my auntie all the time, but my auntie has never done anything and I don’t think anybody else called. It may have been somebody else, but that doesn’t give you the right to pettily come over here and close the church. And as I was informed, she’s not even supposed to be the DS, the District Superintendent, she’s supposed to be moving to Miami now. But because she’s petty, in my opinion, and it’s the truth, she wants to have this church closed down before she leaves and that’s wrong.





	R:	So what would like to see happen to the church?



	W:	What I would like to see happen to the church is that it does become a historical place, and we can have it still here and as a museum if it has to, as long as it’s still here. ‘Cause I don’t care, this is a place of worship, this is a home to somebody and me and many other people, even if they didn’t come here often and they’ve had memories here. And it breaks my heart along with other people, I do not like to see other people cry about it. There’s this other lady named Ms. Welch, she has been here, she’s about a hundred years old now, and her husband was here and they would work, they played piano. They had everyone – just about the whole people at Mebane, they would teach them songs like Suwannee River, and all those other songs with the piano. And she just found out two weeks ago that the church was closing and it broke her heart and she started crying, and it made me angry that that lady, she doesn’t even care about how we feel.

	R:	The church stays open. Are you going to stay here at the church as you grow and get older? Do you plan on staying in the church and bringing your family here?

W:  My thing is I want to get out because I want to move to Orlando and increase my chances of pursing my acting career in Los Angeles and I do want to move away from here. It’s not because of the church, but I kind of don’t like this environment that I live in because even though I know this is a small town, I still feel prejudice in it. I, myself, I may not be perfect who knows maybe I’m prejudiced too but I try not to be and the stuff I’m around I just don’t like the racism. Whether it’s Black





against White, White against Black, or Asian against whoever. I don’t like it and that’s why I want to get out of here. I would have one day, when I have a family of my own and have children, I would like them to come visit down here. I really wouldn’t like them around this environment.

	R:	So even with all the outside things that happen in the community and things that you’re experiencing personally, do you feel that this church currently is a safe haven and somewhere where you can feel safe and escape all those things that’s outside?

	W:	To some extent. Yeah, I do because I’ve been around these people for years so I feel comfortable about them. One of them, her name is Ms. Bonnie and she’s one of my closest friends and we talk, and that’s why I feel comfortable telling her about the issues. I know there’s some stuff—because I don’t want to call them old-fashioned, it doesn’t mean they’re old-fashioned—but there is a lot of stuff that they would think wrong that I think right. For instance, I like hanging around people, I don’t care about their race, but I notice a lot of my family members, probably because they’ve been through that time period and they’ve got a lot of hatred put onto them, that they—I mean I have some hatred too because I’ve had my own racial experiences. Even in kindergarten, I’ve had this girl walk up to me, I wanted to be friends with her, and when she said no I asked her why and she said, “because you’re Black.” And I also had two friends, one girl I know she’s dated outside of her race, she’s dated African American people like me, she’s dated guys that are African American, but still her and my other friend I don’t talk to them now in high school, but they’ve called me nigga. And





my other friend, they like to view things now, they think the way I act is “White girl” and they think the other girl is “White girl” too. So they would say, “Oh, she’s not a nigga but you are,” and I would say, “No, I’m not a nigga, I’m African American,” and it made me angry that teachers were all around but they didn’t say anything. I did not like what they said, ‘cause I am not a nigga, I am African American I am Black, brown, chocolate, whatever you want to use, but I am not a nigga or a nigger, and you do not use those words with me or anyone else. I’m done. I’m done.

	R:	Thank you.



	W:	Thank you.



	R:	I have no follow up for that. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Cristina Rodriguez, March 17, 2017 Audit-edited by:	Chris Calton, October 8, 2018

	Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 26, 2019