AAHP 663; Woodard; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 663 George Woodard 5-25-2019 Interviewed by Joe Hartman on May 25, 2019 103 minutes | 66 pages



Abstract: In this interview, lifelong Micanopy, Florida resident George Woodard recalls his life working a variety of hands-on labor jobs. Primary, Woodard remembers working for several decades at a crate factory alongside several of his family members. On his off time, he would work odd jobs in Gainesville. He also worked a variety of agricultural jobs in Micanopy, including the cultivating and harvesting of peas, watermelons, beans, and other produce. Woodard never married and has lived in his family home for his entire life. In his free time, he enjoys bicycling, shooting pool, and talking with visitors to the Micanopy General Store, where he occasionally works.





Keywords: [Micanopy, Florida, Black community, family history, Gainesville, labor, factory, agriculture, segregation]



AAHP 663

Interviewee: George Woodard Interviewer: Joe Hartman Date: May 25, 2019

	H:	My name is Joe Hartman and I’m here with George Woodard in Micanopy, Florida at Pearl’s Country Store. And I have the pleasure today to ask Mr. Woodard to tell us about himself, tell us about his family, tell us about his childhood, about growing up around Micanopy, any jobs or career he’s had and just what life was like growing up out in rural Alachua County back years ago.

This interview is being recorded for Mr. Woodard to share with anybody he wants to, his family, and also for potential inclusion in the collection of oral histories with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida. So, Mr.

Woodard, could you tell us your full name?



	W:	My name is George Woodard.



	H:	George Woodard, did you have a middle name or no middle name?



	W:	Well, my middle name would be Ernest Jr. Woodard. My daddy name was Ernest and that was—they named me after my daddy.

	H:	Okay.



	W:	Ernest Jr., but when I started school, I had all my people wrote up for George so I let it stay George.

	H:	Okay. Was your daddy’s name? W:	Ernest Woodard.

	H:	Ernest Woodard, okay. And what about your mother’s name? What was her name?

	W:	Her name was Shayla Woodard after when she got married.



	H:	Okay, and what do you know about them? Where did they grow up and where did they live?





	W:	Well, my daddy lived here. H:	In Micanopy?

	W:	Micanopy, I think this was his home. But my momma came from the other side of the river, on the other side of the woods—what’s the name of it—Chiefland.

	H:	From Chiefland, okay.



	W:	Back on the other side of the woods. H:	And they met somewhere?

	W:	After when they got married—I don’t know where they met at but anyways, when they got married, she stayed here until she died.

	H:	In Micanopy?



	W:	In Micanopy.



	H:	And how about your dad?



	W:	This was his home so he died here In Micanopy too. H:	Okay, and what year were you born?

	W:	Me? I was born in [19]36.



	H:	[19]36, what was your birthday? W:	June the fourteenth.

	H:	June the 14th, 1936. W:	1936.

	H:	And do you know anything else about your grandparents? About your dad’s parents or your mom’s parents

	W:	I know my daddy people; I know about my daddy’ momma and daddy. They came up right over there.





	H:	They are from Micanopy as well? W:	Yeah.

	H:	Oh, what do you know about them?



	W:	I didn’t know too much about them but I know my daddy momma and daddy. H:	And they were here in Micanopy?

	W:	They born living in Micanopy, they died in Micanopy. H:	Okay, and did your dad have any brothers or sisters?

	W:	He had about—I think there were five or six of ‘em. That boy I told you there, there was three sisters and all of them done died, the whole family done died but one, his momma. And that's my daddy’s sister. But that boy in the story, I told you about him, that’s the last auntie that I got in the world. There was about eight or nine on my momma’s side and all them done died. And I got another auntie on this side, on my momma’s side, but I got one auntie on my daddy’s side, his momma.

	H:	And what’s her name, your auntie?



	W:	Alice Woodard. Alice Roshare, when she married.



	H:	Okay, and so you were born in Micanopy, where were you born? Were you born in our own home?

	W:	Well, I don’t know whether I was born in the hospital or the house but they had women come around here delivering babies when women get pregnant.

	H:	Midwives would come around and help you out?



	W:	But I don’t know exactly where I was born at, at the house or at the hospital. H:	What did your daddy do for a living?





	W:	We worked at Franklin.



	H:	Worked down in Franklin at the freight company.



	W:	Yeah, he worked down there all his life down at that factory down there. H:	Okay.

	W:	And then when I got old enough that’s where I went to work.



	H:	Okay. Tell us about your childhood. You lived right here in Micanopy not too far from where we’re sitting right now.

	W:	Right down on the other side of that store down there, you go down that road down there on this side of the ballpark.

	H:	Mmhm, and that house, I think you told me yesterday, is no longer standing, that right?

	W:	Yeah, they tore it down and built a new one right there, the old house.



	H:	What do you remember about your childhood? What would you do for fun? What was your—what was it like growing up in Micanopy?

	W:	Well, I had a pretty good life. I never got in trouble.



	H:	What kind of stuff did you do for fun as a kid? You go hunting, you go fishing, you play ball, anything like that?

	W:	I used to play baseball. H:	Here in Micanopy?

	W:	They got a big field park around there. Play ball around there.



	H:	Did you? Who were your friends growing up? Do you remember any of them?



	W:	Well, my sister and my brother, they grown up here. After they got grown and then they got married and they went to get a place, now I got a sister live down





there in Fort Lauderdale, she went down there after she got out of school and stayed down there with one of my momma’s sisters. She had three sisters in Fort Lauderdale and she went down there and stayed with one, and all of ‘em died.

But she still down there in Fort Lauderdale.



	H:	So sounds like you spent a lot of time with your brothers and sisters growing up, did you have any other friends?

	W:	Well, all of ‘em stayed at the house that they got grown in, then they left. H:	They left. And where did you go to school?

	W:	Right here in Micanopy.



	H:	In Micanopy. And were there two schools, a Black school and a White school?



	W:	There was a Black one, now the White school was up here. I went to go to school at the one out there like you’re going to [Interstate] 75. They had two big wooden buildings out there, but they tore all that down. The one right there like you going on to 75, that’s a school. But they had wooden building out there during that time.

	H:	On the same location? Okay.



	W:	Yeah. They tore all them wooden buildings now and built that stone building still out there now.

	H:	And you went to school there from what grades did you go to school there? W:	Eighth, I stopped in the eighth grade.

	H:	So you went from first through eighth? So were they divided high school and elementary school or were they all the same?

	W:	Well, when you go out there to the eighth grade, you went to Gainesville to a school over there called Lincoln.





	H:	Okay, so some of the kids went to Lincoln but you after eighth grade you began to work, I guess.

	W:	Exactly, I went to work. When you go to the eighth grade, about eighth grade out here, they send you to Gainesville to the other school.

	H:	Did they have a bus?



	W:	Yeah, they had a school bus to pick ‘em up.



	H:	So you could have gone to school if you wanted to but you decide to go to work?



	W:	What happened, my daddy, I had to help him work to take care of the other children.

	H:	Okay.



	W:	Because my momma had eight head of children. And you were the only one working, and all of ‘em were out, and I had to help him work to help take care of them.

H:  Were you the oldest? W:  Older than all of ‘em. H:  Oldest, okay.

	W:	I stopped going to school, worked helping him take care of them that way them can go to school.

	H:	Okay. And so you went and worked from eighth grade on you worked at the factory?

	W:	I went to eighth grade and then I stopped and got me a job. H:	And how long did you work there?

	W:	About thirty-five years.





	H:	Thirty-five years?



	W:	About thirty-five or forty. I say about thirty-five. H:	And what kind of work did you do there?

	W:	They made crates.



	H:	And what was your part in making the crates? What would you do?



	W:	Well, I would put on a bottom on a hook. They had a machine, I was sitting behind the machine putting on a bottom on a hook, a round hook like that and they had a machine thing built made like that and it would go around and build the crates. And then they changed that to boxes, boxes like that. They were making bushel crates like that with the top on it.

	H:	And that was all done with machines, even way back when?



W:  Yeah, they had machines making the bottom of the crates. They chained the machine on ‘em and made boxes. They had a long machine like that, it had a wire up there and the thing would bolt ‘em up and take ‘em like that. You ain’t never seen nothing like that?

	H:	No. Unh-uh.



W:  That’s what happened. The strung ‘em all down the building, keep ‘em in the barns to put different kinds of vegetables in.

	H:	Ah, these were vegetable crates. I see.



	W:	Yeah, when people farm, they had about five or six different kinds of boxes you made out there.

	H:	What kind of money did you make when you first started there?



	W:	Well, I can’t remember now but it wasn’t that much during that time.





	H:	It helped your daddy with the family though.



	W:	Yeah. I got out to help him, took care of the rest of them that way they could go to school. They didn’t want to go around, people had to be [Inaudible 11:07].

	H:	What was your house like growing up? You had electricity and plumbing? I know a lot of folks back then did not.

	W:	Well, back in them days we had lights. H:	You had lights?

	W:	We had lights.



	H:	And you had running water? W:	Yeah, we had our own pump. H:	Electric pump?

	W:	No. Had one of those kinds with the handle. H:	Hand pump.

	W:	Put water in there and crank it up, pull the handle. Got water.



	H:	And then no indoor toilets, I’m sure, then if you didn’t have plumping. You had an outhouse or an outside toilet?

	W:	We had an outside toilet.



	H:	How about a kitchen? What did you have for a kitchen? W:	Well, the house had a kitchen in it.

	H:	Did that have a wood-fired stove? What kind of stove?



	W:	Well, we had a wood stove and we had an iron heater. A long iron heater with two eyes on it. That’s what we used to warm by, an iron heater. My daddy used





to go to Gainesville to replace all that and get the wood, they got a place in Gainesville where you sold lumber and stuff to build houses.

	H:	Mmhm.



	W:	And they have to cut so much of the end off, like you build a house you got to have the board right. But then cut the end, so they were cutting the end off and they would pile that up out there, and they would pay for the people to come and get it to move it out the way. Of course, they couldn’t use that. Like you walk in one of those places and get a pole or a bolt or something, you have so much of that end cut off from to build your house or whatever they gon’ build with it, you know.

	H:	So he would go and pick those up and that’s what you’d use to put in the wood stove?

	W:	Exactly.



	H:	And how would he pick that up? What did he use for transportation?



	W:	Well, my daddy, we had an old car back in those days. My granddaddy had a T Model. Old T Model truck, and we would have it cranked like that.

	H:	So your grandfather lived close by. You remember that then or not?



W:  He lived right over there, back of that building right there, the town hall, that was they home, my granddaddy and grandmomma. That was my daddy’s home right back behind that building right there. Know what I’m talking about?

H:   I think I do.



W:  The house back there by the—they tore all that out and that’s a new house they had built back there.





	H:	So your granddaddy had a crank model Model T?



	W:	Yeah, one of them old T Models, his son had it. One of them at the house, would turn it and crank up.

	H:	And that’s what your daddy would use to get the wood from Gainesville? W:	No. My daddy bought a kind of late model truck, he had his own truck.

	H:	Oh, he had a truck.



	W:	Yeah, he had his own truck. And I would go over there with him and get wood to burn, you know. Stuff like that. And then some people buy some from us once we’re over here, turn around in the town.

	H:	And how would you get to Gainesville back then? There wasn’t any [Highway] 441, was there? How would you get there?

	W:	441 was out there. H:	441 was there?

	W:	Go all the way into Gainesville. That road right there go all the way into Gainesville.

	H:	Across Payne’s prairie.



	W:	Across the prairie, that road’s been there. It was there before I was born. H:	Before you were born it was there. I guess I-75 came in later?

	W:	Yeah, 75, see they built 75 out there to keep all the traffic from coming this way.



Because the cars and them trucks now couldn’t go through town right there. It was too many of them. They cut that road around, had to see you there. Then they put that road up down there to go out to 75 and get on 75, that road down there.





	H:	Right. And yesterday we were talking about when you would go out to Flemington or Shiloh, that was before 75? There used to be a road out to that direction?

	W:	There used to be a dirt road.



	H:	And would you ever go out there with a car or with a--? W:	Well, back in them days I didn’t have no car.

	H:	Right.



	W:	I had no car then.



	H:	But would your dad drive out?



	W:	Well, he go out there when he have to go out that way every now and again, but he didn’t go out there that much.

	H:	How many days a week did he work at the Franklin? W:	Five.

	H:	Five days. And what would you all do on the weekends?



	W:	Well, on the weekend we stayed around here and my momma go up and buy groceries up through town. They had three grocery stores up there.

	H:	And that’s where you’d buy groceries. W:	Then stay around here in Micanopy. H:	Did you have a garden yourself?

	W:	No, where I live at you could plant a garden but we didn’t plant no garden. H:	Never had a garden.

	W:	We ain’t got that big of a place to have no garden.



	H:	Right, so you would buy your vegetables and things ibn town?





	W:	Right at that store up there.



	H:	What else would you do on the weekend for fun? If you weren’t working at Franklins, what would you do on the weekends?

	W:	Well, we didn’t do nothing but sit down, walk over somewhere and play ball.



Because they usually had a ball team down here about every week.



	H:	So you played a lot of baseball, did you?



	W:	Yeah, I played baseball. You could have a girl team and a boy team. But now, you can’t even get a team now. No kind of team around here.

	H:	And why is that? Do you know? Nobody wants to play?



	W:	Nobody wants to play no more. Everybody every now and again, these little, small medium boys and girls, now they have a team or something out there on the ballpark. But the regular big boys, they through, they don’t play no ball.

	H:	When you played baseball, did you play with all Blacks or were there Blacks and Whites playing together

	W:	Well, it was all Black during that time.



	H:	Where would the White folks play baseball? W:	They played on the same field.

	H:	But not at the same time?



	W:	No, not at the same time. One week, we play out there and then the week that they gon’ play, they play out there on the park. We didn’t have no double teams like that. One player out there at a time.





	H:	But never played against each other, never played with each other? It was completely separate. When do you remember that changing between the Blacks and the Whites?

	W:	Well, I don’t know when that changed.



	H:	When you worked down at Franklin, was that a mixed crew or was it all Black? W:	No, it was almost as many White ones worked there as Black.

	H:	Working side by side?



	W:	Yeah. We worked together. H:	Doing the same jobs?

	W:	Same jobs but to be doing something different. H:	Same jobs and the same pay?

W:  Yeah. They had two sheds down there, a bunch of us on that side and a bunch of ‘em was on this side. They be working, doing something different, and the Blacks be doing something different.

	H:	Oh, they were separate then? You had Whites working together and Blacks working together?

	W:	Yes. We all were working together but you had to do different things on the job to make the boss—some be laying sticks—

	H:	But I mean would White workers be working side-by-side with Blacks? W:	Side by side?

	H:	In both buildings? W:	Side-by-side.

	H:	That’s what I was wondering.





	W:	Yeah, side-by-side.



	H:	And were you friends with many of the folks who worked down there? Were some of you the same baseball teammates or?

	W:	Well, they all were nice people.



	H:	Any of ‘em live near you in Micanopy?



	W:	Well, there’s one or two White ones near here but most of the people, they were coming from different places to work. Some were coming from Williston, some coming from Archer, some coming from Citra. And right down the road down there from the Lake Redding, and some people were coming from different places to work because the other places didn’t have no jobs, and they had to come here to work.

	H:	And they would come in cars, I guess? W:	Yeah, they had cars.

	H:	They’d all go together.



	W:	Yeah, they had their own cars. And then some of ‘em ride with other people got a job down there. Some of them didn’t have no car and they had to pay other people to come to work.

	H:	So you worked there for thirty—how many years?



	W:	About thirty-five, forty years. I retired about forty years.



	H:	And so what else did you do? Because if you started there when you were— W:	Seventeen.

	H:	That was eighth grade when you were seventeen? And worked thirty-five years and then you retired, what happened after that?





	W:	Working the mill? H:	Yeah.

	W:	No. I worked down there until I got fifty-three years old and I stopped and I went and put in for my pension.

	H:	Okay and then took your pension— W:	And I quit.

	H:	And you’ve been retired since then?



	W:	I do a little kidding around like at the store I take the bags out for ‘em, then a fellow got me to do a little work for him down there to his house. I help him inside his house and I keep the yards clean, the moss and the limbs out the yard, then mow it. I used to do it, cut it with a lawnmower, but after I got sick, he don’t want me to do too much. He get me to go out there and work maybe two or three hours or four hours. I been paying for his house—he has a brick house and he had mold all around on the bricks. And he got me to go down there and clean ‘em off and put paint on the mold on the side of the brick house. He don’t want me to work but three or four hours, “George, I don’t want you to work too hard,” because my heart, you know. Y’all got a turtleneck on, and how it is out there, it’s hot. You don’t want me to get out there in the sun and get too hot because I may fall out or something.

	H:	Sure, speaking of hot, yesterday you talked about working out in the fields out near where I live, out near Shiloh.

	W:	Yeah, I picked tobacco out there. H:	When did you do that?





	W:	I can’t remember what year it was but it’s been a good while. H:	Was that as a child or as an adult?

	W:	Well, I was about eighteen or nineteen years old, because I know how to do it.



H:  So this is before or after you started at the factory? You were just on the side on the weekends and things?

W:  I would go out there on the weekends. H:   And how would you get out there?

W:  Well, it wasn’t too far, they carried me out there. People were working out there, jump in the back, I got them to go out there.

H:  So you catch a ride with them working? W:  Yeah, we’d go out there to the fields.

H:  And you were picking tobacco, tell us about that. You told me a little bit yesterday about how you picked tobacco.

W:  Well, it grow on a stalk. It be taller than you, and it grow just like a green. You see a green? Well, it be a leaf just like a green. You go down and through the end, chop it off, pull it off?

H:   So you don’t cut it off you just pull it off?



	W:	No, you don’t cut it off. You go on, take your hand, and pull it down like that and it break loose from the stalk.

	H:	And then what do you do with that? W:	Put it in the cart.

	H:	You have a cart next to you?



W:   You had a cart; you had a mule pulling right down the road.





	H:	Oh, you had a mule pulling the cart.



	W:	Yeah, we planted in a row, in a row just like that. You ever been to a bean field? H:	A small one, not a big one.

	W:	You never been to a big bean field? H:	Not a big bean field.

	W:	Well anyway, they plant it down in roads about from here to the road out there. Some of ‘em don’t be that long, but they be on stalks and they grow long. And you take your hand and pull it down like that and it breaks and comes loose from the stalk.

	H:	How many people would be working in the field at the same time? W:	Well, it’d be I’d say about five or six, there don’t be too many.

	H:	And you’d work all day long pulling tobacco? W:	Work until about three or four o’clock.

	H:	Okay, and then you’d come back in. Is that the only crop that you worked on out there?

	W:	No, I picked beans, tomatoes, cucumbers, I worked in every grove. Everything you see in these stores, I worked in.

	H:	Okay, and that was all at that same farm near Shiloh? Yeah, okay. W:	Picked beans, picked cotton.

	H:	Oh, you picked cotton out there as well?



	W:	No, I picked cotton over in Citra. They used to grow cotton out there in Citra, you know where Citra is?

	H:	Mmhm.





	W:	His name was Mr. Cobb. He plants beans, okra, he plant watermelons, you could send a truck in to pick us up. I was about nineteen, eighteen, something like that. Big enough to do that kind of work.

	H:	Would you know ahead of time that he needed work and you’d just wait for the truck to come?

	W:	Well, he’d let us know and then he’d send a truck up here to get us. H:	He would send a truck, okay.

	W:	He let us know, when he need us to work, he send a boy in here, let us know, “Mr. Cobb got your name here, he got some work. We’d take the day, got all you could do,” We’d say “Yeah, let us know.” And then the next day we’d be headed in a truck coming here to go to the field.

	H:	And the truck would take a whole bunch of you out there? W:	Yeah, as many as he could get.

	H:	And how did you get paid for that work? Do you remember? Would they pay you—

	W:	They paid you every day.



	H:	Would they pay by the hour or pay by the piece, pay by the quantity? How would they pay?

	W:	They’d pay by the day.



	H:	So, at the end of the day, you knew how much you were going to make that day? W:	He told me how much we was gonna get.

	H:	Okay, it wasn’t for so many parts holding you back— W:	Yeah.





	H:	Okay, do you have any idea how much you made back then a day? W:	We didn’t make too much by the day.

	H:	Can you remember how much it would have been? W:	No. It’s been so long.

	H:	Wasn’t much though? W:	No, it wasn’t that much.

	H:	Now, when you came home that money went to the family, is what it sounds like.



That help your family?



	W:	Yeah, I bought food, paid the bills, stuff like that—got groceries.



	H:	So, you left school after the eighth grade, you working at Franklin and working in the fields—Were you still living at home with your parents?

	W:	Yeah, I was staying home.



	H:	And how long did you live with your parents? How old were you when you moved out?

	W:	Still stay now.



	H:	Still live with my momma and daddy, right up until both of them died and all the rest of ‘em get married and then left.

	W:	And you never married?



	H:	I never married. All the rest of them got married and they got children. W:	So, you’re an uncle for lots of nephews and nieces then?

	W:	Yeah. I figured right there to the door and then knock in the same spot where my momma and daddy died. All the rest of ‘em—some in Gainesville, my sister in Fort Lauderdale, and I got two sisters dead, they had they own place and they





died. I got a sister lives in Gainesville, daughter, and the one down in Fort Lauderdale. And I got a brother still with me. After his wife died, he come back home, and he stay there now.

	H:	Oh, he lives with you now?



	W:	Yeah, he moved after his wife died. H:	Okay, so what does he do?

	W:	He don’t do nothing, he done retired.



	H:	So, he just hangs out at the house then?



	W:	He stay there and go back and forth to Gainesville, every day. But he got his own car.

	H:	And you never got married, did you ever think about getting married?



	W:	No. I don’t wanna get married, that ain’t nothing but a headache. [Laughter]



	H:	But sounds like you were there for your parents, for their whole life. You stayed with your parents.

	W:	I stayed down there my whole life in the same spot where they died at, but the old house ain’t there.

	H:	How long did they live, your mom and dad?



	W:	Well, they lived to about seventy, eighty, something like that. About eighty, eighty or ninety, something like that.

	H:	Okay. Did your mom work while she was—



	W:	Yeah, my mom went to work at the mill. She used to put wine in the crate. H:	Oh, she worked at the mill too?

	W:	She worked down there too.





	H:	All three of you worked at the mill?



	W:	Yeah, she used to put wine in the crate where it was facing the top down on. She worked down there, my daddy worked down there, and I worked down there.

	H:	And when they retired, you stayed on? W:	Yeah.

	H:	What did they do in their retirement, did they do anything?



	W:	When they got off work they’d go home. She’d cook and we’d eat. On the weekends go up there and get groceries.

	H:	Did y’all ever go anywhere as family? You go swimming anywhere or go hunting or fishing or anything like that?

	W:	I ain’t never fished in my life. H:	Never fished in your life

W:  None of them ever fished. H:  And never hunted either? W:  No.

	H:	So, would you have meat as a child and where would you get meat to eat for dinner and things like that?

	W:	They had different kind of meat up in them stores. H:	Did they?

	W:	Yeah, they had chicken, all different kind of meat. But they ain’t have all kinds of stuff like they got now. But they had meat, eggs, stuff you get up there.

	H:	Did you have a refrigerator when you were a child? W:	Yeah, my mom and I had one.





	H:	She did? Not an icebox, they actually had a plug-in refrigerator? W:	Yeah, we had one.

	H:	Tell me about your dad, what kind of a person was he?



	W:	He was all right. He didn’t smoke, he didn’t drink. Neither one of them. He was all right.

	H:	How about your mom?



	W:	She didn’t ever smoke or drink either.



	H:	Okay. What do you remember about them that you liked?



	W:	Well, all I can remember is them and I—they were nice to me. H:	Treated you right and you treated them right.

	W:	Yeah.



	H:	How did you know all of these people who you were talking about yesterday out in Shiloh and down there at Flomaton. How do you know so many different people?

	W:	Well, they come up in town and right out there in Shiloh—see, that ain’t nowhere. They come up here for church, Baptist church. That’s where all of ‘em [inaudible 32:46] the day when all of ‘em used to come up here every Sunday to church up here.

	H:	Did you go to church when you were a child? W:	Yeah, I went to church when I was small.

	H:	Which church did you? W:	I joined a church.

	H:	Which church was that?





	W:	The Baptist.



	H:	What was it called? Do you know? Just Micanopy Baptist Church? W:	Micanopy Baptist.

	H:	Okay. And you joined when—



	W:	I joined when I was small, I think I was about fifteen, something like that. Joined the church.

	H:	People tell me the church was the center of the community. Was there a lot of things that happened at the church? A lot of gatherings and social get-togethers at the church?

	W:	Well, everybody went to the church, they were nice back in them days. They ain’t have no problems.

	H:	Mmhm. A lot of singing? W:	Yeah, there was singing.

	H:	Do you have friends in the church? W:	Had friends. A lot of ‘em.

	H:	A lot of friends?



	W:	Yeah, a lot of ‘em. Back in them days, people weren’t like they are now, you know.

	H:	What were they like? Tell me ab out that?



	W:	Some people was kind of pointed to you, but people now—back in them days, now it’s different.

	H:	People treated each other better back then? W:	Yeah. Back in them days, treat ‘em better.





	H:	Did they have church picnics and things like that where everybody got together? W:	Well, you could have one or two out there throwing the ball for ‘em. Mmhmm.

They had one out there every now and again but it don’t be regular, you know.



	H:	What was your preacher’s name? Do you remember? W:	Reverend Taylor.

	H:	What do you remember about him?



	W:	Well, all I know, he was a pretty good preacher, but he didn’t live here. He lived down the road down there.

	H:	Oh, he drove up here on Sundays?



	W:	He’d come up here to the church. He lived down in a little place called Evinston. H:	Okay, I know Evinston.

	W:	You’re familiar? Okay, well he lived there. But he drove back here to the church.



	H:	So, you had a Sunday church service. Would there be any other meetings? Did you do a Wednesday night meeting or anything like that?

	W:	Well, sometimes they had a little different kind of meeting out there. H:	Okay, and all of you went to church together?

	W:	We went to church together.



	H:	Did you get all dressed up to go to church?



	W:	That was the Black church, but the White ones got they own church, they got two up through town up there and they got one where you go down to 75 down that road right there. White ones got three churches.

	H:	But you only had one?



	W:	And the Black people got four. Four churches.





H:  They have four now? W:  They have four now.

H:  How many did they have when you were growing up? Did they have more than one back then?

W:  Well, when I was growing up, I don’t remember but three. One around McCurry and two around [inaudible 35:57] where I live at. They built another down there by the ballpark. See, what it is, they got different churches named churches.

They got a Jehovah’s Witness, they got a Baptist church, and they got two more got different names. All the churches got different names.

	H:	I’m gonna go back to the school. What do you remember about school? Do you remember any of your favorite teachers in school?

	W:	Well, one was named Trout, one was named Mrs. Gill, and one by the name of—What I remember, all the teachers didn’t live here btu one teacher lived in the town, but the rest of ‘em lived different places. We had one teacher live here name is Payton. All the rest of ‘em, they live different places down the road, Gainesville.

	H:	And they would drive in for school?



	W:	They would come drive here to the school.



	H:	What was the school like? Did all the grades mix together or was there a different class for every grade?

	W:	They were different classes. So many in this class, so many in there, different rooms.





	H:	Just like they do now, I guess. So, no one-room schoolhouse two-room schoolhouse.

	W:	No. Every teacher got their own room, they got so many children in there to teach.

	H:	And what do you remember about school? Did you have any favorite things that you did in school or things that you were good at or not good at?

	W:	Well, some things I was good at and some I wasn’t. H:	What were some of the things you were good at?

	W:	Some I wasn’t.



	H:	What were you good at? Do you remember?



	W:	Well, I was good sometimes at adding, different stuff like that. H:	Adding and subtracting, doing arithmetic or mathematics?

	W:	Yeah.



	H:	Probably had to do some of that when you were out at Franklin, I guess? W:	Well, down at Franklin we didn’t do nothing but work down there.

	H:	You didn’t do any measuring or anything like that?



	W:	We ain’t had to do nothing about that. Now, they had men to do all that. They had boss men.

	H:	They did all the math and all of that?



	W:	They’d do all that. But the job, you didn’t do nothing but work. We had an office down there and had a maid in there. The maid in there take care of it, do it. But on the job, you didn’t do nothing but work. Work, work. Make the crates and stuff like that.





	H:	That must’ve been okay if you stayed there for thirty-five years. W:	Thirty-five years.

	H:	Working side by side with your mom and dad. W:	Side by side.

	H:	Any brothers and sisters work there too or just you?



	W:	Well, my other sisters and brothers didn’t work down there. I was the only one that went out, my family worked down there.

	H:	Did they finish high school in Gainesville? W:	Yeah, they did.

	H:	But all went into Gainesville? W:	Yeah, all of them went to town. H:	And they went to Lincoln.

	W:	Worked up at the school they call Lincoln.



	H:	Get off the bus and—Did they all graduate from high school then?



W:  Well, I got four sisters, they finished school. But my brother, he stopped. And I got two brothers that got killed. One died and one got killed in a car wreck.

H:  What do you remember in Micanopy about segregation and integration? Do you remember what that was like? And you went to obviously, when you were a child all the Blacks went to one school and all the Whites went to another school. You didn’t play on the same baseball field—well, you played on the same field but not at the same time. Do you remember how that changed?





	W:	Well, I’ll tell you. Back in them days, all Blacks went to one school and the Whites ones went to one. They had to go to Gainesville, they stopped there, go in town. Now, here, they go together in Micanopy.

	H:	Right. Do you remember those changes at all?



	W:	Well, I don’t remember what year that was, but I know that they do it now.



	H:	Did they have segregated, separate bathrooms or drinking fountains in Micanopy for Black and White, or separate stores?

	W:	Well, my time, we’d all go in the same bathroom, the White men and the Black men. But the women had their own. The women got their own bathrooms, the males got their own like they got it now.

	H:	But it was Blacks and Whites together sharing the bathroom as far back as you can remember?

	W:	No. Black women go in the bathroom where the White ones go, and we men go in the same bathroom as the women go into.

	H:	So, they didn’t have them separated Black and White back then? W:	Not that I know.

	H:	And how about at Franklin? Same thing, everybody’s here?



	W:	Same way when I start. They had the bathroom on the outside down at the mill. H:	Right.

	W:	But now, men go in there together and women go in one together.



	H:	And so, you don’t remember anything that Blacks were not allowed to do back then?

	W:	No.





	H:	They were separate, but you could do the same things, and the drinking fountains and the bathrooms were not separate, they were for Blacks and women.

	W:	The women go where they go and the men go in there, back as far as I can remember.

H:  I know in some of the other areas there were problems between Blacks and Whites and there were stories about the Klan and those kinds of things. You don’t remember hearing stores like that?

W:  No, I don’t remember. [Laughter] I don’t remember back then. H:   Your daddy tell you stories about any of that stuff or no?

W:   No.



	H:	No? I think Micanopy may be a different town than some of the other towns around here.

	W:	Well, people are different in every town, you know. Every town different. H:	Have you ever lived anywhere else, other than right here?

	W:	I ain’t never went nowhere else. The only thing I done is [inaudible 43:11] H:	And didn’t go in the service, the military service?

	W:	No. I never been in.



	H:	You’re eighty-two years old, so you’ve spent all eighty-two years right here on the same piece of land where you were born?

	W:	I was born in this town, and I ain’t never left here and stayed nowhere else but in Micanopy. I go to Gainesville and stay with my nieces, and with my sister over there sometimes, but I come back here. As far as going out somewhere else, I





don’t do that. I went down to Fort Lauderdale for one or two weeks, down over there. But I come back here, where I live at, Micanopy. I go and visit them, but I come back.

	H:	You ever been outside of Florida? W:	No.

	H:	Never been outside of Florida? W:	Never been out.

	H:	And besides—where have you been in Florida besides Fort Lauderdale?



	W:	Well, I ain’t been nowhere at that point. I went to Cross City, Shackrock. I think my momma had two brothers used to live over there and I used to care of ‘em, see ‘em every month. You know where Cross City and Shackrock at?

	H:	I know where Cross City is, I don’t know where—



	W:	Well, Shackrock I think on this side across here, but both of ‘em together. You could walk out on one end to another.

	H:	Okay, they’re right next to each other.



	W:	Right there you don’t need no car. You walk right out of this one and walk right in there.

	H:	So, you would take your mom over there to visit her relative?



	W:	I took her every month or every other month over there to see her brother, because she had two brothers live over there and I had a car during that time. She had a car and I used to drive her car. Of course, when I was seventeen years old, I went and got my driving license. I got my driving license when I was seventeen.





	H:	Because your dad had his truck, I guess right?



	W:	Yep, my momma had a car, and he had a truck. He had a truck; she had an old [19]51 Chevrolet.

	H:	What year was the truck, do you remember? W:	It was a kind of old truck, wasn’t—

	H:	Was it a Ford truck or what? W:	Ford.

	H:	It was a Ford.



	W:	Yeah. It wasn’t no kind of new truck, back in that day it was kind of old, but it wasn’t one of those tiny trucks like they have now. [Laughter]

	H:	So, you remember going to Cross City and Fort Lauderdale, how about the beach? Have you ever been to the beach?

	W:	I been to one beach, one time, back when that thing up there—To Wauburg out there. You know how they have that little park beach out there?

	H:	Oh, we have Wauburg, but you’ve never been over to the ocean? W:	No, I been one time out there.

	H:	One time to Lake Wauburg, so and you never got into fishing, so you never got into swimming, I guess, either?

	W:	Can’t swim.



	H:	Can’t swim.



	W:	I don’t get in no water; I don’t get in no boat. [Laughter]



	H:	You don’t even get into a boat, okay. That’s probably smart if you can’t swim. So, nobody ever taught you how to swim? You never went anywhere to learn, I





guess? Isn’t that something. You played baseball; did you play any other sports besides baseball?

	W:	That’s the only thing I liked to do is play baseball. H:	You never played football?

	W:	No, I don’t play football— H:	Basketball?

	W:	I played basketball.



H:  Oh, you did play basketball. W:  When I was going to school. H:  Okay.

W:  When I was going to school, I played basketball. H:   So, they had a hoop out at the school?

W:   Yeah.



H:   Probably with a dirt thing, dirt pavement?



	W:	Yeah, had a court out there. Teams come in here and play and then we go off and play to another town.

	H:	Oh, you played other towns? W:	Yeah.

	H:	What other towns did you play? Do you remember?



	W:	Well, we go to different schools, where the school at. See, they had a school at the team there at their school and we had a team at our school, they come here and play us, then next week, next town we go over to they school and play on they court. Ball be like that. Had a team come in a play a week and then the next





following week, they’d get us to come to they hometown and play they field, back and forth. Every town had a ballpark, school, and they had children play basketball and softball like that. The girls and boys used to play together, softball. It’s a big old round ball like that, softball. Had mixed up teams, sometimes girls would be playing with boys—you know, mixed up boys and girls teams like that. Baseball, we just had one solid—ain’t nothing but boys play baseball because the ball is hard.

	H:	Right. And you left school after the eighth grade, but you still played with the team, which was mostly older kids then?

	W:	Well, we all about the same age playing ball.



	H:	On your team. So even the younger teams would go and play other towns in basketball.

	W:	See, young boy like eighteen, nineteen, like that, had a team.



	H:	Oh, so this was no longer school this was the Micanopy team. I got you, okay. W:	Yeah. There don’t be no old boys, if you know what I mean. We like eighteen,

nineteen, thing like that. When you got to nineteen maybe twenty, have a ball team.

	H:	Did you have any news about professional baseball? How would you get news?



Did you have a radio or a television?



	W:	We’d see it on the TV.



	H:	So, you did have a television.



	W:	Yeah. My momma and them had a TV back then.





	H:	Okay, so you remember when the Major Leagues—When Jackie Robinson started playin’ baseball?

	W:	Yeah, I don’t remember when they played but I remember they played.



	H:	And you remember Jackie Robinson, when they first started integrating the baseball leagues?

	W:	Well, I’d see him on TV and everything, but I don’t—



	H:	Yeah, that was not a big deal for you. You were more interested in playing than watching, I guess.

	W:	Yeah. I’d look at ‘em on the TV but nothing like I do in there. They got a TV in there that I imagine football game on now, horse race, baseball, all in the story. I look at that sometimes, I do.

	H:	Do you have a television at home? W:	Yeah, I got one. I look at that at night. H:	Okay.

	W:	Because most of the time, I don’t be home, you know. I look at it a while at night, different pictures and things come on.

	H:	Okay, that’s interesting. So right now, you live in Micanopy, you spend a lot of your time here at the store just talking’ with folks and meeting with folks and helping around in the store and helping your friends down the road.

	W:	I tell you what the deal is, they give me a little money, I clean that up every Monday morning. They pay me. Then I can go in the store and get anything that I wanna eat or what I want in the store, something like that. But after I got sick, see, I used to clean up and night. Every night I used to mop the floor.





	H:	Oh, when they closed up, huh?



	W:	When they closed up at night. But after I got sick, he don’t want me to do nothing. They don’t want me to do that. They used to pay me every night to mop the floor, put the chairs on the table, take the bags out the trashcan, but now they don’t want me to do nothing. But I still take the bags out them cans when they get filled up and clean the store. Every Monday morning, I come there around six thirty and they pay me to get all that trash up in the park, like cigarette butts, and they pay me. Every Monday morning. They’re nice.

	H:	They like you. When I spoke to David Carr this morning, he respects you.



	W:	Yeah, he nice. All of ‘em around here that know me is nice. Even the police come up there every day and eat two times a day, every time they go up there, “George, you got to go to Gainesville?” One Friday I had to go to town. I was up there, and they took me into town.

	H:	Gave you a ride?



	W:	They gave me a ride. They come up here every day and eat two times a day.



They come up here in the morning for breakfast and a crew come up here around twelve o’clock and eat. “George, you got to go to town?” I called ‘em one time, he helped me around to Gainesville. Every time I come up here—

	H:	So, they took you in, did they give you a ride back, too?



	W:	Well, they ain’t got to get me a ride back because I got a bunch of nieces and sisters that stay over there, and they bring me back.

	H:	Oh, okay so they live out here, but they work in Gainesville?



	W:	They stay in Gainesville. Work out there during the day, I got five of ‘em.





	H:	Okay, but they come out and visit you?



	W:	They come out here to see me then they come out here and get food. Nothing like those [inaudible 53:30] [Laughter]

	H:	I like those grits in there too. Yeah, that’s good.



	W:	I don’t have no problem around here. Any time that I want to go to Gainesville I got a bunch of ‘em live close to where I live say, “George, any time you got to go to Gainesville just come and let one of us know, we’ll take you to Gainesville.” All of ‘em around in here know me, the whole town. Across over there, me and them boys growed up together. Right here in the town. Now a lot of people come in here, they know me now.

	H:	Even though they weren’t here before, they know you because you hang out here and spend your time.

	W:	Yeah, they know me now. Plenty of people come in here, they know me now. When I don’t be here, they ask people, “Where the fella out there that sit out there, George?” A bunch of ‘em know my name and a bunch of ‘em don’t.

	H:	I heard your name from several people. They said if I wanna hear some good stories, you’re the man I need to talk to.

	W:	Well, some know me, and some don’t, but they ask about me that often. H:	So, what position did you play in baseball?

	W:	I used to pitch and play center field. H:	Okay, you were pitch too, all right. W:	And play center field.

	H:	And how long did you play? When’s the last time you played baseball?





	W:	Well, it’s been a long time. That fellow you see sitting out there, he used to play ball.

	H:	Is that Sam?



	W:	No, that other fellow, he was sitting out there. H:	Okay, I didn’t know who that was.

	W:	Well, he stay over there in Gainesville, he had a team over there in Gainesville. He ran a crew over there in Gainesville play ball, his team used to come out here and play us on the weekends. That guy that was sitting out there.

	H:	Would many people come to the games or just the two teams. W:	A lot of ‘em out there.

	H:	Were there really?



	W:	Yeah, there’d be a lot of ‘em out there.



	H:	Yelling and screaming and cheering you on?



	W:	Mmhm. Yeah, used to be ball teams everywhere. Every town had their own ball team.

	H:	And were you—



	W:	Gainesville had one, Williston had one, Boca had one, Redding had one, Ocala had one—Plymouth out there where you live at, them boys used to have a ball team. We used to come out to Plymouth and play ball.

	H:	Did you?



	W:	You don’t remember? They have a ballpark out there. H:	Well, I know they have a ballpark—

	W:	We used to come out there to play.





	H:	I’ve never seen anybody out there.



	W:	During that time, we’d come out there and play ball at that little park out there. H:	Okay, that’s neat.

	W:	Play out there, Flomaton, right out where you live.



	H:	Yeah. So, were you guys any good? Was the Micanopy team any good?



	W:	We beat some and some of ‘em beat us. Some of the teams beat us and we beat some of the teams.

	H:	Yeah.



	W:	But some of ‘em was good, you know. You can’t win every time. [Laughter] H:	No, you can’t.

	W:	Somebody gon’ beat you. I don’t care how good you is, somebody gon’ beat you.



	H:	Well, I’ve been on many a team where we lost of all our games, but I’ve never been on a team where we won all the games.

	W:	You ever play ball?



	H:	I played some baseball, I played soccer, I did some other sports. Soccer was my big sport. I played baseball. No, I’ve been on lots of teams that didn’t win very many at all. I’ve got to be pretty good at losing. [Laughter] Never learned a whole lot about winning. So, your mom and dad were buried right here in Micanopy?

	W:	Cemetery right down the road down there. All of my sisters, aunties, most of them buried—

	H:	Off of 441?



	W:	Right there when you see that animal place right there where they work on them dogs and cats, that road to the cemetery out there.





	H:	Right, okay.



	W:	You know what I’m talking about? H:	I do know where you’re talking.

	W:	The road right there where you carry your dog or cat, that road you see right there go around to the cemetery right there. That’s where all my people buried, out there. Most of ‘em.

	H:	And that was probably an all-Black cemetery back then?



	W:	Yeah, the Blacks. Now they got one down here, the Black and White right down this road here. I got one around there nothing, but White ones buried in there.

	H:	But you didn’t have a cemetery at the church?



	W:	No, they ain’t got to cemetery at the church. But they got one around—you know where the water tower at? Well, I tell you what you do. When you go back that a way, you go down by the water tower right through [inaudible 58:16] it’s a big one there. That’s the White cemetery. They just buried a woman there Monday, died here in Micanopy. You can go right on around, it goes right on back around that—

	H:	That’s where the big brick wall, right? W:	Huh?

	H:	Doesn’t it have a big brick wall on the outside of it?



	W:	Yeah. It goes right down by that, you pass that, and you go on down First, there’s a big cemetery on the left side. That’s the White cemetery. And they got one down here about a mile and a half down this road here called Oak Bridge. They got White and Black buried in there.





	H:	They’re mixed in there.



	W:	But the one around there where I’m talking about, ain’t nothing in there but Black. H:	Are they still burying folks there or are they not burying folks there anymore?

	W:	Whereabouts?



	H:	Where your family is buried.



	W:	Yeah, they bury—Now, if I die, that’s where they gon’ bury me. H:	Okay.

	W:	Out in that cemetery.



	H:	Okay, that’s what I wanted to know.



	W:	If I die, that’s where I’m going, out there, because there’s a big place out there. That’s where my momma, daddy, all my aunties and uncles out there but one, buried right there.

	H:	And they all have stones with their names on ‘em then?



	W:	They got their names but there’s different names out there. But I know their name Oak Bridge.

	H:	No but I mean do they have gravestones with the name Woodard on there? W:	Yes, all of ‘em got the names on ‘em. They put the name on the head of it. H:	Right.

	W:	Got the name on there, what year that you died, everything up on the thing there.



A lot of people come in here now and they ask where the cemetery is because they got people buried out there. They go out there, they look, and they find the grave with the name and thing up on the head there. And when they die, it’s





gone. They know that then. But if it didn’t have the name and things on it, you wouldn’t know that they people.

	H:	So, you did not get married, you didn’t have kids, but you’re close to all your nephews and nieces and things is what I’m hearing.

	W:	I got so many of ‘em I don’t even know some of ‘em names. H:	What do they call you?

	W:	They call me Uncle.



	H:	Uncle? Uncle George or just Uncle?



	W:	Yeah. They call me Uncle. I got so many of ‘em I don’t even know some of ‘em names but they know me.

	H:	Yeah, and you’ve been there for them, watched then grow up.



	W:	Some of ‘em. See, I got a sister and some of ‘em over there in Gainesville, she got three daughters and two sons. All of them got children. Some of ‘em know me, and then they youngest ones growing up, they don’t know me, but they know my name, they know I’m their uncle.

	H:	They don’t come out to Micanopy much?



	W:	Some of ‘em come out here and some of ‘em don’t. And when my momma was living, she used to have a family reunion.

	H:	Oh, she did have a family reunion?



	W:	She used to; my momma and one of her sisters. H:	That’s what I mean.

	W:	They used to have a family reunion out there, that’s where they got that school, that big place out there where they put the school at. Go out there and have it out





there. And that draw a lot of the people to you where you can know ‘em. Some come, and some don’t.

	H:	But they haven’t done that for a long time? W:	No, they haven’t did that in so long.

	H:	So, it was mostly her family or your dad’s family too? W:	It’d be my momma’s family and my daddy’s people. H:	Oh, and his folks would come too, okay.

	W:	They’d come too. It don’t be just one family, it’d be on my daddy’s side, on my momma’s side.

	H:	And how many people would come? Lots and lots, it sounds like. W:	It’d be so many sometimes.

	H:	Who did the cooking?



	W:	They had a thing—company in Gainesville serve, bring food. H:	Oh, somebody else brought it out, okay.

	W:	Yeah, they had the food brought out. What do you call that thing in Gainesville?



Deliver food, you can order so much food and bring—they do that here.



	H:	Catering service?



	W:	Yeah, they do that here. H:	Yeah, I knew that.

	W:	A lot of people.



	H:	But your momma did that when you were growing up or is this afterwards?



	W:	A bunch of ‘em get together and put the money and have that go out there. They like to do some burying. When some of the people die, they’ll have one of those





things brought out here with food, so much food. After the funeral, you’d go to the church or wherever the food at and eat. I had a cousin die about—he been dead about four or five years ago, my second cousin. And the White people around here, they know everybody around here, we growed up together here, and so they had a big funeral at that church right there. You know where I’m talking about? The first one right there.

	H:	Right in town?



	W:	Right in town where that light is at. It’s a big church and they had the funeral there and they had a bunch of food, so much food there that people could eat on. They had one of them things come out there and brought the food there. After the funeral, went there, sat around out there and ate.

	H:	And they put that on for him, then? For your cousin? W:	Yeah.

	H:	That was nice.



	W:	A lot of people have that, and a lot of people just have the funeral and don’t have no service for them to eat.

	H:	Do you go to church on Sunday?



	W:	Well, I don’t go now but I used to go. H:	Used to go with your mom and dad?

	W:	I used to go. I don’t go now. I’m gonna start back. H:	Oh, you are gonna start back?

	W:	I’m gonna start back.



	H:	What made you decide to start going back?





	W:	Because the good Lord done take care of me to get this old and my heart bad, every morning I get up. I say, “Thank you Jesus.” Because if you can go at night in your sleep. You know what I mean?

	H:	So, you are thankful every morning you wake up?



	W:	Every morning my eyes be open, I say, “Thank you Jesus.” Because he got me where I can get up and I can see, and I can move.

	H:	And that made you think maybe you need to start going back to church?



	W:	Yeah. And the older that I am, eighty-two, we done had two whole families around in here died and they made it where I’m at. There’s a whole crew I think about seven head, done died here. Young Black, and one sister living now out the whole family.

		H:		So, she's younger than you are? You're the oldest one in the family. W:	I'm older than all of them that done died around here.

	H:	It sounds like you've had a good life.



	W:	Yeah, I never smoked, never drunk, never stayed out all night. Ten eleven o’clock at night, I’ll be home, in the town, home.

	H:	Now, how did you do that you've got friends; you’ve got lots of people that have smoked, have drank, how did you stay away from all of that stuff?

	W:	I didn’t took the habit up. That’s a habit. H:	And you weren’t interested?

	W:	I didn’t never see nothing in it. All the people tell me, “How you be around people smoke or drink?" I say, “Well, if you ain’t gon’ do something, you ain’t gon’ do it.”





How can you be around them smoke and drink? But I never took a habit of it. I didn’t never see nothing through smoking. I didn’t never see nothing in drinking.

	H:	So, you didn't need to try it



	W:	I didn't ever do it. I was over there in Gainesville, I stayed over there two weeks because I had me hooked up. Medicine in my arm and things running though my heart, cleaning my heart, my body out. After I got well, I went uptown over there to the courthouse where the crowd hang out at, two polices come up there asking for ID. So, I was standing up there with the crew, and they come to me say, “Hey, let me see your ID.” I showed him my ID. He said, “I don’t see where you ever got in trouble.” I said, “I ain’t never been in trouble in my life.” He said, “How you did when you hang out?” I say, “Well, when I see something coming up, I get out the way.” I ain’t never been to jail in my life. Every police come out here, they know me.

	H:	And they know you’ve never been to jail?



	W:	They know I ain’t never been to jail, I ain’t never had a record in my life. H:	Do you know many other people that can say that?

	W:	I ain’t never been in trouble in my life.



	H:	How about in school, did you ever get in trouble when you were in school? W:	No, I ain’t never been in trouble.

	H:	Never been in trouble with your parents?



	W:	Never been in trouble, never been in a fight. Never been in a fight with nobody. H:	For eighty-two years?

	W:	Eighty-two. Because I stay away from all that.





	H:	That’s pretty amazing. W:	That’s right.

	H:	I’m thinking you must have your parents to thank for that.



	W:	Police has been up in the day, two crews of ‘em, “George, you got to go to town today?” Every time they come up to me. If I got to go to town, they take me to town. “How you doing?” I say, I’m doing all right. “How’s your heart doing?” I say, “Well, it’s still kicking.” They grin.

	H:	I still think your parents must’ve had something to do with it. They taught you right when you were young.

W:  You see, what my momma would tell me and say, “If you do right in the womb, you’ll live a long time. If you do things that you ain’t got no business, you’re not gonna live your time. If you do right, you live a long time.”

H:   And that’s all she needed to say, isn’t it?



	W:	That’s all she needed. I ain’t never did nothing wrong, as far as I know, in the world. I don’t mess with nobody. When I used to go around with these jukes I’d go in there and get me a drink and sat down to a table. I didn’t bother nobody. I had girls come up to me, “Buy me a drink.” I’d buy ‘em a drink. Whatever they drink, I’d buy it for ‘em but I didn’t ever get out the way with ‘em, you know?

Because a lot of it is, when the women come up to you, they think that you’re



winning or you’ve been messing around with ‘em and get killed.



H:   Did they have jukes here in Micanopy?



W:  Yeah, they had three jukes here. They had a ball right down there, side of the road.





	H:	I didn’t know that.



	W:	Had a ball right down the side of the road. Had two jukes. They had one right down there where Stanley’s is today, and they had one down there like you going out to 75, a big one.

	H:	So, you would go in there?



	W:	I’d go in there. I used to shoot pool.



	H:	Oh, you shot pool. So, inside the juke they would have a bar, they’d have a poolroom, and—

	W:	Well, they ain’t have but one bar here and that’s right down the side of the road, but the other ones were jukes that served beer, just like them other two.

	H:	So, in the juke it was just drinking?



	W:	Yeah. Now, you can buy a beer in them other two but this one up here, you can buy beer and liquor at. That was the only two.

	H:	And that’s the one where the pool table is? That’s the one you go to? W:	I go in there; I go to all of ‘em.

	H:	Did they all have pool tables or not? W:	No, just one.

	H:	You pretty good at pool?



	W:	Well, I shoot a little bit. I couldn’t shoot that good, but I shot a little bit. H:	They play pool for money?

	W:	Yeah. They shoot for money. Yeah, they used to shoot with big money. H:	Really?





	W:	Yeah, big money. But they got nowhere to go now that you can do that kind of running. Every bar now you go, places, they done closed up the jukes now. [inaudible 1:11:50] close it for you to go in there.

	H:	So, did you play for big money too?



	W:	No, I didn’t play for no big money. I’d shoot for a dollar or something like that. H:	Okay, but you watched ‘em shoot for big money?

	W:	Yeah, they do shoot for big money. But I wasn’t real old at that time, I was about sixteen, seventeen, you know, young. I shot my chance for a dollar, but I didn’t shoot—The older guys put in money. Guys my age, I shot with them for a dollar. Most of ‘em could, they think they could shoot, I shot them for a dollar. But I didn’t shoot nobody older than me, no. I shot my class.

	H:	The dollar you could afford, but lots of money, that’s expensive.



	W:	A dollar, maybe two dollars, something like that, you know. I didn’t go up to no ten, twenty, something like that.

	H:	Did they ever have fights there in the jukes?



	W:	Well, every now and again they’d have an argument. But the one that owned it didn’t let ‘em get out of there and start. Before they start fighting, shooting, or throwing something where other people could get hurt.

	H:	Sure. So, they kept them under control, then. W:	Try to keep ‘em in, you know what I mean.

	H:	Right, and that was usually on the weekends that people would go into jukes, or would they go in every night?





	W:	We go in every night and stay on a certain distance, about eleven, close up. Close up around eleven, maybe twelve, about that time then they close up.

	H:	Mmhm. I can think of lots of other questions I could ask you. I don’t know if there’s anything else you can think of another story you want to tell me.

	W:	No, I don’t know no more. [Laughter]



	H:	I bet you have lots more. I think we’ll close the interview for right now, maybe I’ll come back. I definitely wanna come and just chat with you sometime, maybe not with a recorder.

	W:	Well, I’ll be up here every day. Every day when I don’t be going to Gainesville, I’m here. I’ll be down there working. Sometimes they get me two times a week to go down there, they like for me to be around doing work for ‘em, you know.

	H:	Let me ask you a personal question. I look at your hands, you’ve got the hands of a hard worker right there.

	W:	Well, that finger right there, I was working down in Franklin, and I messed around and mashed it.

	H:	At the plant?



	W:	Yeah, I mashed it. H:	Right.

	W:	And they sent me to the doctor to have a stitch. But then the bone scratched up like that. Bone still—and it was about that long. And I took the bone and I flipped it over, and it come down on my finger, and it bent the head of my finger down like that. And I went in the office, they thought it was broke and they sent me to the doctor. The doctor put his thumb up under it, situated it back like that. And





they put a wrap around it and my hands swolled up in that wrap. And it pained me, I cried, it was too tight. And I took it off. And that much of gangrene had got in that finger and it—I went back in the office, now they sent me to Gainesville, North Florida General Hospital. And the doctor looked at it and they put me in the hospital the same day. And the next morning they took me up there and they cut that much of it off.

	H:	Because they couldn’t save the end of the finger?



	W:	No, they had to cut it off. It got gangrene in it, and they cut it off before it got in my veins, because if it went on up, they would’ve had to cut my whole hand off. And then it would’ve killed me, that gangrene, you get that, and you don’t do something for that, it’ll kill you. They cut it right in the end of that finger right there like that.

	H:	Right.



	W:	And they took that much of it off.



	H:	When I look at your hands, you’ve got workers’ hands. You’ve been doing hand work all your life is what it looks like to me.

	W:	Yeah.



	H:	So, most of that is from working at the factory, just the fact that your fingers and your hands—

	W:	I got some stuff I can put on ‘em to heal ‘em up.



	H:	Right. I’m not talking about to clean; I’m just talking about they’re rough just from working so hard.





	W:	I done did any kind of work that you can name. I worked with roofing guys on top of houses, they were putting on buildings.

	H:	Was this here in Micanopy or where—



	W:	No, I got to Gainesville. I go to Gainesville and was doing that work. H:	So, you did construction work, you did farm work—

	W:	I did any type of work that you can name. There ain’t no kind of work that you can name that I ain’t help did it.

	H:	And how did you find time to do that if you’re working at the mill the whole time? W:	Well, we be off. See, every year they give us two-week vacation.

	H:	And during those two weeks instead of going somewhere you’d go work somewhere else?

	W:	I’d go to Gainesville, me and my daddy, and these other guys over in Gainesville, they got business to do, and we’d be up there on the block. And they come along and pick you up, they need people to work. And me and my daddy would catch ‘em sometimes and go on to work that day.

	H:	Doing whatever they wanted you to do? W:	Yeah.

	H:	Pouring [inaudible 1:18:01], working on the roof, doing any of those things.



	W:	See, it’d be different kind of work. Some of ‘em get you to go up there and help ‘em on the roof, put a top on. Told me to talk to ‘em in a bucket where they could spread to put the thing down. You got to dig a footing, put the bricks, like you building a building. Me and my daddy helped ‘em out there when they built the Beston Hospital. You know where that at?





	H:	The what?



	W:	The Beston Hospital for the other boys. Right there in front of Shands. The



Beston Hospital for the other boys to go to.



	H:	Oh, the VA Hospital?



	W:	Yeah, anyway, during that time that they built that, me and my daddy went there—They got us and picked up a crew, we done—think about all the footing for them to build that building until we got to the hard clay. We dug it until we got to the hard clay and then they had to get one of those things they can hoe it, because we couldn’t do it with the shovel. And they built that hospital out there. I helped build that.

	H:	And that was on vacations and weekends and things because your daddy and you were both working at the mill?

	W:	Everybody was off from the mill. They gave everybody two week’s vacation. H:	And then you’d go find work in Gainesville.

	W:	We’d go to Gainesville, some people come along want some work did, we catch ‘em.

	H:	So vacation for you meant more work?



	W:	It did. [Laughter] It paid, they paid you every day. H:	Yeah, well, that’s interesting.

	W:	Pay you every day.



	H:	So those hand have done every kind of work in the world is what you’re saying.



	W:	Any kind of work you can name, I done did it. Pick tomatoes, cucumbers, working watermelons, pick beans—





H:  And this is mostly at that farm we were talking about out near Shiloh? Or is it other places too? I know you said Citra you picked—

	W:	Now, we had two farmers around here in Micanopy. One of ‘em named Mr.



Harvey Gladden and he live out there where you live. The other one name Tuck



Mack.



	H:	It’s Harvey Gladden, is that his name?



	W:	He used to live out there where you live. Back out there by them Reaves boys. H:	I’ll have to ask about him.

	W:	When you see Eddy or Eliza, you ask ‘em. H:	Ask ‘em about Gladden and Mack, okay.

	W:	There was a fellow used to live out there named Mr. Harvey Gladden. He died. H:	Oh, Gladney, oh I know, yeah. I know who the Gladney’s are, sure.

	W:	He used to be a farmer.



	H:	Yeah, that is right near my house, exactly. Right across from the Reaves is



Gladney’s property.



W:  He used to plant a lot of beans. The other fellow lives straight down that road by Tuck Mack Boy. He died. He used to plant a lot of beans. Tuck Mack, that was his name. And they were the two biggest farmers close around here.

H:  Okay. Yeah, you don’t know anybody who worked down on—You know what Price’s Scrub is?

	W:	Who?



H:  Price’s Scrub. It’s out there near the Gladneys, near where I’m at, near the Reaves, but it’s a thousand acres that the state bought so it now belongs to the





state. But it used to be a large farm and I don’t know who farmed it, I don’t know who lived out there—

	W:	Does somebody still live there?



	H:	No, it belongs to the state. It’s just a state park right now and people go horseback riding and walking there. But nobody’s farming it now. I’ll ask, the Reaves may know.

	W:	They know because that’s where they been out there all their lives.



	H:	Well, and that road used to go right through that property that I’m talking about. W:	They probably know because they been out there all their lives.

	H:	I will ask them.



	W:	Mr. Jedrod had that store right there. There used to be a store right there beside the road, that first building. That man there Mr. Jedrod, that used to be a store.

	H:	And he had a farm, he did farming too. And you picked beans for him. W:	I don’t think he farmed; he just had a bunch of cows.

	H:	But you said you worked for him some, what were you doing then?



	W:	Not Jedrod, he went there and got paid off. The two farmers paid us off there.



	H:	They paid you off there but you weren’t farming—you weren’t doing work for him. W:	No, not the open opened that store. I worked for Mr. Tuck Mack and Harvey

Gladney. I just know him because we used to go there and just show up and got paid off for the work that we did.

	H:	Okay.



	W:	He still got a bunch of old houses on that side of the road.





	H:	I know, that’s what I was wondering, if you knew anything about who lived in those houses.

	W:	Well, one Black girl lived in one of ‘em. And I think some people live in the one on the right side now. I think the White people live in the one on the right side.

	H:	Well there’s one place right on 320, right at the intersection of 320 and what I call 329, and there are four small houses right there together that look like they were tenant farmer houses or—Just real small, wooden houses. Little teeny things.

	W:	Well I know one Black brother that stayed in one a long time ago, but I think he over there in Gainesville now. But I seen some people I worked for by there when I ride on my bicycle. One on the right side right down on the same side where the store at, there’s some people stay in that. It’s an old one on the right side.

	H:	Right, going down, right?



	W:	Going that-a-way. Now some people stay in that.



	H:	I’m talking about past there when you take a right on 320. W:	Oh, 320?

	H:	That’s where there are four houses right close to the corner— W:	People stay in ‘em?

	H:	No, no nobody’s lived in ‘em for years. They’re empty, little teeny houses. I’m thinking they’re tenant houses left from the slavery days.

	W:	I used to go around there every time I rode on my bicycle but the doctor told me, “Don’t be takin’ them long rides now,” with my heart. Because I may get weak and I may fall off right in front of a car.

	H:	Sure.





	W:	And the car may not can stop, you know.



	H:	So you still ride your bike, just not out in the country anymore? You ride your bike in town?

	W:	I ride around in here, I don’t take them long trips. See, I used to go way around your way to Flomaton. Curt and Flomation going on into Orange Lake, go on in ready, and then come back 441.

	H:	Oh, that’s a nice bike ride.



	W:	I used to do it every week when I don’t go to Gainesville. H:	Just for fun?

	W:	Just ride my bicycle and have a good time. I went around there that Monday morning, I left the store here and I eat breakfast. I come up here every morning and I eat breakfast. I said, “Well, I ain’t going to Gainesville today. I’m gonna go around here to Flomaton and then I’m gonna hit that road going to Orange Lake.” But I went around there Monday morning during the time that boy got killed around there, that Macon boy.

	H:	Yeah.



	W:	You know when they had that bad wreck? Got killed. I went around there that Monday morning.

	H:	That was the last time?



W:  And I couldn’t get up there, all the way up there, because there were cars parked where you had that wreck all the way back down to Flomaton almost, on the side of the road. He got killed and the thing was on the road, so I rode my bicycle up





there but no cars could go up that-a-way, they had to park down the road because they wasn’t letting ‘em drive on the road going up there.

	H:	Right.



	W:	Because they hadn’t got the truck where he got killed—he was still in there. So I could ride my bicycle aside the road and go on up there, so I went up there to pee, and that’s what happened. Got killed on that road right up there between— What they call that little place? It was just a little out in Flomaton. That Macon boy, that Black boy got killed up there that Monday morning on that road.

	H:	I don’t know what that would be called. W:	But anyway, he got killed up there.

	H:	And was that your last long bike ride that time or have you—?



	W:	I’ve been riding for years. I have seven automobiles. I ride my bicycle and I drove my car. I just got rid of one about two years ago.

	H:	So you don’t have a car now?



	W:	No, I don’t have one outside. But I’m gonna try and get my nerve. H:	But you’re not gonna ride your bike on long bike rides anymore?

	W:	No, no, the doctor told me don’t take that chance no more. I used to go this-a- way and go into Gainesville, they got a bicycle trail down there going to Gainesville—

	H:	Going through Rachelle probably?



	W:	Right to the end of the road out there. It go into Hardman and it go into Gainesville, bicycle trail. I used to go that-a-way then I’d go 441. I’d go this-a-





way, see hogs, lot of hogs, take it, a lot of deer this way. Because there’s more lawn this-a-way than there is this-a-way.

	H:	And you just do that for exercise and fun?



	W:	I did that for years. I bet you I rode out over a hundred bicycle. [Laughter] I got two at the house that I got down there that [inaudible 1:28:18].

	H:	Yeah. So when you come here every morning, do you ride a bike? W:	I ride it every morning. You see that out there?

	H:	Oh, you’ll have to show it to me.



	W:	I can walk up there but I ride my bicycle. H:	Yeah, it’s good exercise.

	W:	Yeah, I bike and run. H:	That’s neat.

W:  I used to go out there on that trail, go into Hawthorne, come on back through and go into Gainesville. It’s seven miles from here to Rochelle where you get on it at, seven miles.

H:  And I’ve been on that road myself with a bicycle several times. W:  Oh, you rode out there?

H:   Yeah.



W:   How far you rode down on it?



	H:	Out to the high school and then back? W:	You rode the Hawthorne?

	H:	Yes. I actually rode from—We got in Boulware Springs, we went from Boulware Springs out to Hawthorne and then back to Boulware Springs.





	W:	Yeah? Well you know what I’m talking about that trail. Did you see deers and turkey? How many hogs you see?

	H:	I see hogs and deer and turkey at my house almost every day. Out in the woods.



We must’ve saw twenty hogs the other night.



	W:	Yeah? Well I got a friend live out there, he feed ‘em. He say he got about fifty seven deer come on his place every day and night. He feed ‘em.

	H:	And he feeds ‘em. And then does he ever shoot ‘em and eat ‘em? W:	No, he said he don’t shoot ‘em, he just feed ‘em.

	H:	Just feed ‘em, that’s nice.



	W:	A lot of people live out like that. They come on the place, they feed ‘em, you know. They just want to see ‘em. Usually they come out there every day and night on his place. He live right on the road you talking about. When you go out to 75, that road cut and go that-a-way, that where he live at.

	H:	He lives down that way.



	W:	He lives down that road. He lives down that-a-way right on the corner where you turn to go back out to 441, he live up on a hill. I haven’t been there in years. He’s due to come up here on Friday to eat, but he didn’t come up here that day. He like to eat with me, “George, I’m coming up there, we gon’ get us a catfish dinner.” But he probably went somewhere else today. He the one bought me this watch.

	H:	Wow.



	W:	I had another watch on.



	H:	That’s a good-looking watch.





	W:	He went down there somewhere to a flea market. He go out to the flea market out in Ocala. He got one that’s like this. I was sitting out there one weekend, one Saturday, “George, I got something for you. Take that thing off your arm and throw it away! I got a new one.” He said, “I got something for you,” and he brought me this watch. But I still brought my other one to the house. He’s a nice fellow. His name Louis.

	H:	Don’t know him.



	W:	You don’t know him?



	H:	I don’t know any Louises.



	W:	Louie, every day he come up here and checking on me. Now, he’ll be up here first thing tomorrow checking on me. “George, how you doing?” He come up here every day wanting to check on me, see how I’m doing.

	H:	I think you’ve made a good impression on a lot of people. I think a lot of people check on you and wonder how you’re doing.

	W:	All of ‘em around here, if they don’t see me, they gon’ come up to the house and check and see if I’m sick or something.

	H:	Make sure you’re okay.



	W:	Make sure I’m okay. I went from here one Thursday, I had to go to Gainesville that Friday, so I come up here and ate breakfast and I left and caught me a ride to Gainesville. So one of my nieces called out here to the store, they called back about checking on me. They say, “You see George?” She don’t know. People come up and didn’t see me that morning when I come up here. They said, “No, we ain’t seen him. He ain’t been up here this morning.” But I come up here then





and I went up there and I caught me a ride to Gainesville, and so they come out here, my nieces and things, and went to the house. Looked all in the house, didn’t see me, looked all around the house. They thought somebody had kidnapped me or something.

	H:	Oh wow.



	W:	So a bunch of these people around where I live at, White people, you know, they usually see me because I pass by they house. They said, “No, we ain’t see George today.” Boy, they had the polices in here looking for me going all around, looking for me. And then all these White people around here was driving, looking for me and didn’t know where I was. But I was over there in Gainesville. So late that evening, about dark, one of my nieces knocked off and went and she came by where I was sitting in Gainesville with the crew. “Uncle George! How you have all these people around here in Micanopy riding around looking for you and they had the polices looking for you.” I said, “Well, I’m over here in Gainesville.” So they called out to the store late that evening before the store closed say, “Yeah, we ran up on him over here in Gainesville.” If they don’t see me they wonder where I’m at.

	H:	That’s good. That must feel good to know that many people care about you.



	W:	All of ‘em in the town. And then the people come in here live out of town, they know me. I got some live up there before you get to Gainesville, they come checking on me. Come up to the door, “You seen George? You seen George?” I was sick one time here and a lady over here up the road up there, she come to the store, she say, “George been up here today?” They said, “No.” I had





pneumonia. And she come to the house, “Get up!” Walked me up to the town hall, they checked me out. And I had pneumonia. She came here and went straight on to Gainesville and put me in the hospital.

	H:	Wow.



	W:	Took me right into town and they put me in the hospital, Shands. I had pneumonia and I couldn’t harldy get up and I didn’t get up to go to the store that morning.

	H:	You got that many people checking on you and thinking about you and worrying about you, that’s good.

	W:	All of ‘em.



	H:	That’s good.



	W:	Whole town, even people don’t live here they come up here and check. If they don’t see me, they be wondering where I’m at. They think somebody done killed me or done kidnapped me. In the store there, if I don’t come up there in the morning, then they wonder where I am.

	H:	That must make you feel good to know that many people care about you.



	W:	Yeah, they gon’ come around here and check and see. Everybody want to come to this door that know me because I be sitting out there or inside. If they don’t see me, they start wondering where I’m at.

	H:	They start worrying.



	W:	Yeah. They be wondering where I’m at.



	H:	Well that’s a pretty good life that you have lead.



	W:	And all of ‘em know that I ain’t never been in trouble in my life.





	H:	Well and they know just from talking to you that you’ve got a good heart. W:	Anything that they think I need, they give to me.

	H:	I’m guessing you’ve probably helped a few other people along the way yourself.



You’ve been there for them when they have troubles, I’m sure.



	W:	I got people around here, some of ‘em be sitting out there, I give ‘em money. One boy come up here today living at Median there. He bring food up here two times a week from the crew. He’ll be back up here about Monday or Tuesday deliver some more meat, because they sell a lot of meat. Run out of meat, and then he’ll come right back Friday. I seen him come today, now Monday, he’ll probably come back for more meat and I’ll get up and open the door for him because he have that cart full. What he gonna do with it, he have a ton and wrestle with that cart with that meat on it. I open the door and go in there. And what he do? He give me twenty dollars. See, I help ‘em out. I don’t charge people for nothing, but see, I know that’s a strain on him with that cart, especially with that box of meat like that and I get up and I see him, come up and open the door for him so he can go on in.

	H:	Because you wanted to help, you weren’t expecting or wanting any money.



	W:	No. I just do that to help him out because I know there’d be a strain with that cart with that load of—them cases of meat, boxes like that. They’re real and beef, carting beef, full of it with meat, they’ll have as many boxes as he can get on that cart. Then when he get to that door it’s kind of hard for him to come in because that door is kind of hard to open. And I get up and open the door. I seen him coming, he can go on it, he wanna get that return and thing to go in there with





that load. I got two come up here like that. I got a White one come up in here like that, he do the same, everything. He got two trucks come here deliver meat. He got both of ‘em come in on a Monday or Tuesday, but they have to come right back that Friday. If they come up here and I see ‘em come in here with that cart load, I get up on the door because I be sitting right there. Keep him from doing all that work, straining. When you go out, go to the door and pull that door and go in there, you’ll see how hard it is.

	H:	Yeah, it’s hard. It’s a lot of spring to it, yeah.



	W:	And they had him cart as many cases of boxes up that they can get on there, and it’s hard for him to pull that door holding one hand on that cart. And then you have to turn like that because you have to turn the cart a different way when you open that door. Because the door pull to him. I get up there and open the door where he can go when I see him coming and he walk straight on in.

	H:	That’s nice.



W:  I look out for people and they look out for me. H:  That’s what it sounds like.

W:  That don’t do no trouble to open that door. But they do that for me, they give me twenty dollars. The other fellow give me the same thing. You help people, they’ll help you. You be nice to people, they’ll be nice to you.

H:   And you’ve been doing that your entire life.



	W:	I’ve been doing that all my days. I see people in a strain, I help ‘em. You know what I mean?

H:   I do know what you mean.





	W:	They help me. Why come I got to be sturdy, don’t help people when I see people kind of in a strain?

	H:	Yeah.



	W:	I see people in a strain, I help ‘em. I don’t be charging. Now, if two women come up here that done had a bad stroke. There’s a White one come up here and then there’s a Black one come up here. Both of ‘em done had a stroke and they got a stick, they can’t hardly walk. They walk like this right here. Just keep going. And when I see ‘em come up here, I go out there and help ‘em, I open the door for ‘em to go in. Sometimes I go out there, I say, “Want me to put your gas in your truck or car?” One of ‘em got a truck and one got a car. “I sure appreciate it.” I said, “Baby, I know what you mean. I see that y0ou in pain like that and you’re hurt and you can’t get around too good and when you get to that door, it’s hard for you to open that door the way you want.” Both of ‘em. One of ‘em was up here yesterday. They had a stroke and they can’t hardly go, but they driving.

	H:	Well and they probably hope you’re gonna be there to open the door for ‘em.



	W:	Yeah. I help ‘em out every time they come up here. Sometimes I get the bag and I carry it out there to ‘em. One of ‘em might have had a stroke and has her arm down like that and she carry all her groceries. Just can move but still here on top of the green grass.

	H:	If you’re available to help, you’re gonna give ‘em that help that they need.



	W:	Yeah. They still here on top of the green grass. As long as they here on top of that, they doing good.

	H:	Yeah. Makes sense.





	W:	When the green grass growing on top of you, you in bad shape. [Laughter]



	H:	Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well listen, you have told me some great stories. You have lead a really special life and you have done for others and it sounds like everybody’s checking out for you—

	W:	I don’t have no problems. H:	A life to be proud of.

	W:	I don’t have no problems nowhere I go. Everybody know me, they nice. They nice.

	H:	Yeah. Well listen, thank you. I’m gonna turn this guy off. [End of interview]

Transcribed by: Abby Lovett



Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, August 17, 2021 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, August 23, 2021