AAHP 346; Schumpert; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 346 Betty Schumpert African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed on February 26, 2008

12 minutes | 9 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 346

Interviewee: Betty Schumpert Interviewer: Unknown

Date: February 26, 2008



	C:	Tell us a little bit about who you are, and the school you attended.



	S:	I’m Betty Andrews Schumpert. I attended Douglass High School in High Springs, Florida. And I’m a 1954 graduate of High Springs.

	C:	And this is a picture of—?



	S:	And this is a picture of our school, and this is the annex. And believe it or not, this annex here, our president owned that building. Doesn’t look like that now, [inaudible 0:29].

C:  Wow, talk about history! Let’s talk a little bit about Douglass, and about you, and the ties that bind between Douglass and A.L. Mebane High School. So, tell us a little about your experiences at Douglass. What was your school day like?

	S:	My school day was, I guess regular school days, except from, we were so different from what they are today. Because we walked to school. We have no cafeteria, too. And the classes were kind of smaller-sized classes. But I guess the largest class would be something like twenty-some kids in there.

	C:	So on the average, you had about twenty students per class? S:	It would depend on the class, because some were larger.

	C:	And depending on what subject you were learning? S:	Yes, yes.

	C:	Do you have any—who was the principal at the time? S:	Mr. James R. Reeves was the principal at the time.

	C:	And you were in the graduating class of… S:	1954.





	C:	Graduating class of 1954. What school—do you know what year your school was established? What year Douglass was established?

	S:	Douglass was established, there aren’t dates concerning Douglass, because one of the older things that we’re proud to say is that Douglass was actually established in 1908. That was really history back then. It goes back, I think, 1899, 18-something, back in the 1800s. They start raising funds to try to get a school in High Springs. The parents or whatever start raising funds to make our school. On account of that, we got a little bit of money, and the school boards helped. They were able to get a school started in 1908. But then understand, even after that, that school burned in 1925, it was.

	C:	Oh. So when was—when was, was your squad, did you all have heat and air conditioning?

	S:	No, no air conditioning. Heat was, like, heaters. You know, they use wood and those kind of things? That’s the kind of heat the—

	C:	The wood stoves? S:	Yes, yes.

	C:	Oh. But no a/c.



	S:	No a/c. You open the windows, and feel the fresh air from outside. C:	Tell me what lunch was like.

	S:	During my schooling, there was no lunchroom. So, you had to bring your lunch.



And of course, we got cold, and I started to work in the little shops, the little mom- and-pop shops would open up on campus. And then, we were allowed to go off campus and purchase our lunch.





	C:	So, you had an open campus policy where you could go off campus and purchase something. How long was your school day?

	S:	Yes. I think it was from eight-thirty to about three.



	C:	[Inaudible 3:10]. And then, maybe half an hour for lunch? S:	Yes. Yes.

	C:	Oh. So, Ms. Schumpert: tell me a little bit about the racial tension, the level of racial tension during your days at school.

	S:	There was no racial tension, because we were segregated. Segregated. School became integrated in 1970. And I happened to be working at that time.

	C:	So during the days of your time at Douglass, from what grade level to what grade level did the school go to?

	S:	It started from first grade. I don’t think they had kindergarten. But you actually started from first grade through twelfth.

	C:	Really? And about how many students would you say, at any given time, was at your school?

	S:	The total amount of students? I really don’t know. I’d say probably three or four hundred.

	C:	Really?



	S:	Mmhm.



	C:	And it was a community—



	S:	Yes. Yes. And it was the only school. C:	Tell me about your teachers.





	S:	The teachers were different, too, in those days. They were like your parents. And if you made any kind of mistakes, or you did anything on campus, your parents were called. And they would take you home and those kind of things, and you knew better than to mess up. Because you would get it in school—they could paddle in school back then. You’d get it at school, and then they would send a note home to your parents. What was so interesting to me was, there were no telephones. But when you got home, they already knew what had happened. [Laughter]

C:  This is true. Somehow, the word got back to home. So, Ms. Schumpert, I admire you so, because you are a legacy. And there’s a connection with Ms. Schumpert and Mebane.

	S:	Yes.



	C:	So, let’s talk about that connection. Tell me about that.



	S:	The connection that I have with Mebane is that I worked up here twenty-two years.

	C:	And Mebane’s—



	S:	At first, I started working at the Douglass School where I used to go to school. My first five years was at Douglass. And then we opened during the integration. We had Mebane, or—Spring Hill. We opened, actually, up in Spring Hill in the school.

	C:	In High Springs.



	S:	In High Springs. And then from there, I came from Douglass, and I worked for twenty-two years as the food service manager.

	C:	Wow. You were at Mebane for twenty-two years.





	S:	I was the food service manager, yeah.



	C:	So during the time when Douglass was closed, and there was the shift of having students come to Mebane during that time, how many students—how did that affect just the change in closing that school? Did they combine the two and then open Mebane?

	S:	One of the things that happened prior to 1970, they had a choice that you did not have to pass a school to get to another school. My children—I have two daughters, and I have some nephews who were there—and they chose to go to Santa Fe High School. So, they never went to Mebane. Of course, all the other children who did not make their choice, they were bused to Mebane High School.

	C:	I see.



	S:	And the first class—the last class that left, now, this was 1956—the last graduating class from 1956. Two years after I graduated.

	C:	Tell me about, just your favorite—tell me about your favorite subject. What was something that was just—“I love this subject.” I love reading. What was your favorite?

	S:	My favorite subject was math. C:	Tell me about that.

	S:	And I was just always willing. I love figuring and doing those kind of things. Of course, I liked English too. But my favorite subject was math. And one of the things about math that I can appreciate today: it was one of the stepping stones in my life that helped me to get some places. In my job, it was, it just all paid off.





You know a lot about that. Even when I went to Santa Fe Community College, I would make an A in accounting. So it just was something that I just loved.

	C:	And one of your strengths. Let’s hear some of the things—I know that, in this notebook that you have, you were one of the folks that sent most of the samples of these things from Douglass. So would you just share some things? Let’s open up the notebook and see what we have, and—it’s the history of Douglass.

	S:	This is a brief history of Douglass. And it’s sort of sketchy, but it was based on the things that we, you know, deal with them fine, and some things were added in later days. But this is the history of Douglass. And of course, this right here is the Douglass High School alumni song. That’s what guests were given for dear old Douglass High School. And this is—we had only one yearbook during the whole time of Douglass.

	C:	Really?



	S:	And it was made, and—



	C:	Oh, could you hold it up so we can see it?



	S:	And this is just a copy. I would not bring my for-real one. But it had felt backing, and it was black. [Inaudible 8:23].

[Inaudible; talking over each other]



	S:	The one yearbook they had. It was in 1951. And this of course is where we found some of the history. Some of the history’s in here, because we added to that.

Also, and again this is the picture, and the annex. The annex became a part of— we all kind of outgrew this part of the building, so the annex was part of the elementary part of the school.





	C:	I see.



	S:	And I think it housed about three classes. Like the, you know, first, second-grade classes.

	C:	Did you have any teachers—once Mebane was opened, did you have any teachers that came up from Douglass to work at Mebane that you knew of?

	S:	Yes. They transferred the teachers over there. Yes. Some teachers, because they opened Spring Hill, and actually closed the school completely. So they were transferred to Spring Hill.

	C:	Oh, so some went to Spring Hill Middle School, and then others came to Mebane?

	S:	Yes, yes. The high school teachers came there. That was a middle school. And this space in the book, and here’s one of the things that I like about the book: about the book, it had teachers of this class of 1951. The teachers were in these in the front. Okay, that’s the principal, Mr. Greene. I’m not good at turning this, but these are the teachers. These are some of the teachers. And believe it or not, some of these teachers are actually my teachers.

	C:	Really?



	S:	In fact, most, all of these teachers here—this was my high school sponsor, when I graduated high school. So, most of these teachers actually taught me.

	C:	Mm, interesting.



	S:	And of course, this was the senior class of the 1951 class. That’s the class history. And most of these people that you see here have passed on. Very few of





them are still living. In fact, as I look at this page, I don’t see anybody I know that’s still living.

	C:	Is this your class?



	S:	That’s not my class. That’s class of [19]50. C:	It shows the elementary, and athletics.

	S:	Yes, I—



	C:	So, a year book.



	S:	Yes. And of course, we had band. Ms. Catherine L. Taylor was in charge of the band. That’s why we named this park after her, because she would have the band. She was in charge of a lot of things. We actually had a football team, and a basketball team, and a volleyball team—

	C:	Wow!



	S:	—in the late years of the school. I was a volleyball player. C:	Really?

	S:	Yes. And believe it or not, I was also a majorette—a head of band, too. [Inaudible 11:01].

	C:	Oh, boy! [Laughter]



	S:	I was a majorette. I don’t know if I ever learned to twirl or that kind of thing. C:	But you were a majorette! [Laughter]

	S:	And basically, these were classes, like Home Ec and all these kinds of things— C:	I’m seeing in the extracurricular student council, and I see Home Ec, and PTA.

There’s still PTAs today.





	S:	Yes. We had basically some of the things that’s [inaudible 11:28] now. And like this on the smaller.

	C:	I want to see your [inaudible 11:13]—



	S:	And this, I think, is my sister, who was—I can’t read that upside-down. Juanita Andrews, she was our queen.

	C:	I see her!



	S:	Yes. Yes.



	C:	And they were in band, and chorus. And those are just ads. Well, Ms.



Schumpert: thank you for sharing today. This has been fantastic. Thank you. Mr. Shell? Ms. Schumpert is sharing her high school diploma with us today. Can you open it up so we can see the—fantastic. Thank you!

[End of recording]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, Aug 29, 2014 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, June 19, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019