AAHP 118; Glenn; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 118 Carolyn Mickens Glenn African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on August 21, 2010 28 minutes | 19 pages



Abstract: Carolyn Mickens Glenn was born in Ty Ty, Georgia, and graduated from Jerkins High School in Perry, Florida, about which she shares her memories and thoughts in this interview. She talks about the importance of the heritage of Jerkins as well as the change in a sense of community that she feels has taken place over her lifetime, and then relates some of her family history. She also talks about her friends from when she was young, and what she would do for recreation in those times. And she describes her participation in Jerkins athletics.





Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School]



Standards

1. SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 118

Interviewee: Carolyn Mickens Glenn Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date: August 21, 2010



	W:	This is Marna Weston with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program in Perry, Florida, at the Jerkins Community Center on August 21, 2010. And I’m speaking with Ms. Glenn. Ms. Carolyn Mickens Glenn. Thank you very much for agreeing to speak with me today.

	G:	You’re welcome.



	W:	Ms. Glenn, could you tell me when and where you were born?



	G:	Oh gosh, I was born in, you won’t believe it, Ty Ty, Georgia 1937 November 18th. W:	And I can’t believe it. [Laughter] And now what county is that in?

	G:	Tift County.



	W:	Tift County. Okay. G:	Yes.

	W:	Okay someplace particular in Tift County or was it a community township or a town there?

	G:	Community township because it was a little place. W:	What’s the name of the place?

	G:	The place itself was called T-Y T-Y Georgia. W:	T-Y T-Y Georgia.

	G:	That’s the actual name of the place.



	W:	Okay, okay thank you. And you’re a member of which class here at Jerkins High School?

	G:	1956.





	W:	The class of [19]56, okay well excited. So why are you here today at this celebration day?

	G:	We’re here in celebration, we’re bringing back memories and great things that Jerkins have done. We came from such a small town and it’s just amazing how many great people that we found came and left this school, and we’re claiming our heritage.

	W:	There has been an incredible legacy of leadership this weekend.



	G:	Incredible, incredible. I mean I’ve been away so long until I never realized that as many great people came from this little small school.

	W:	Some people have said that the greatest resource Perry County has, it has exported to the rest of the world.

	G:	It is and I mean it’s all over the world. It’s not just in a small area. We got people that graduate from Jerkins High School that’s even in other countries.

	W:	What do you remember about Jerkins High School that you believe adds to this legacy of its greatness?

	G:	Well mostly because of great teachers, respect that the students had for the teachers, and the care that the teachers had for the students. In the time that I came to school, teachers were like parents to us. We respected them and they had a great love for us. So that’s what I remember. I mean I got kids that went to school and it’s so different. So different.

	W:	Do you think that’s because a sense of community that existed here at Jerkins has been lost in the years since integration has happened in the schools?





	G:	Definitely, definitely. And it has a lot to do with parents. I can understand that part. The parents don’t have that care for education or the care to help raise the child. Like the saying is, it takes a community to raise the child and the parents think that it’s the teachers’ job and the teachers think it’s the parents’ job. That’s not it. It takes the whole body of people: parents and teachers. Teachers and parents.

	W:	Do you think that that sense of community and the parents and the teachers everyone together to help students can be recaptured in today’s schools? Or has that been lost forever?

	G:	I think if we really make up our minds that the school system, or when our children are in trouble, and we love our children, we would have to recapture that. Because otherwise they will be lost, they will be lost.

	W:	So how does coming to the Jerkins Historic Marker Dedication and high school reunion help invest in that new part of the legacy to save kids?

	G:	I think it’s just awakening something in us; it’s a spark. Like saying to us that we can’t be complacent, we can’t just be relaxed and say we don’t have a job to do. Even as grandparents and people that don’t even have kids anymore, we need to come together and make up our minds that we have something to do. We really have something to do to recapture that.

	W:	Okay well let’s talk a little bit about you and then we’ll come back and talk to Jerkins. I’d like to find out about your family. Who were your mom and dad?

	G:	My mom was Eva Mickens my dad was Willie Mickens. W:	And where were they originally from?







G:

They were originally from Georgia.

W:

Also, the same place?

G:

Same place that I was born in, originally from.

W:

And who were their—let’s start with your mom, who was her mom and dad?

G:

My mother’s mom was Lessie Hankerson and her dad was Enoch Hankerson



Sr.

W:

Could you spell that last name please?

G:

H-A-N-K-E-R-S-O-N.

W:

Okay, and where were they from?

G:

They were originally from Georgia. From Tifton, Georgia.

W:

And on your dad’s side? Who was his mom and dad?

G:

That I don’t know.

W:

Okay, are you married?

G:

Yes.

W:

Okay and who is your husband?

G:

My husband is Kenneth Glenn.

W:

And do you have children?

G:

I have four kids.

W:

And what are their names?

G:

My oldest is Terry Glenn. My next one is Gary Glenn. The third one is Kenlyn



Alicia Glenn and my baby girl is Gwendlyn Glenn.

W:

Just in a kind of range of age, from the oldest to the youngest how old are they?





	G:	Oldest one is fifty-two, the next one is fifty-one, the next one is forty-nine and the next one is thirty-five.

	W:	Okay so these are kids that are adults, they’re grown. G:	Adult, all adults.

	W:	I guess you have some grandkids? G:	I have four grandkids.

	W:	And what are their names? G:	Five grandkids. I’m sorry.

	W:	Okay, and what are their names?



G:  I have Tasha Glenn, Kenneth Glenn. I have—gosh what’s the other one? Deanna Glenn, Kamari Glenn and what’s the other one? I got one more somewhere. [Laughter] I can’t remember the other one.

W:   It’ll come. You got a lot of grandma love. They know you love them.



	G:	Yeah okay let’s start back to the beginning. Okay the first grandchild I had was Winter Glenn. Then the next one was Tasha and the next one was Kenneth. So I really got what? I’m talking about great-grands I think when I was naming those other two. [Laughter] Okay I got—Winter is Alicia’s, Deanna is Alicia’s, Kamari is Alicia’s. Okay I got five. Kenneth and Tasha that’s who they are. That’s them.

	W:	Okay where was the one that you left out? And then when we go back to the list, you mention Winter first.

G:   Yes.



	W:	So Winter must be the oldest one. G:	Yes, Winter is the oldest grandchild.





	W:	Okay, well see as a oldest grandchild, we like to hear that. [Laughter] Okay so we got the family down to the grands developed. What is your earliest memory of education? What’s the first school that you went to?

	G:	The first school I went to we were having school in a church, and the church pastor at that time was—our school had been burned down. Okay and grades were divided up among churches and a Masonic hall. So my grade was first grade and I was going to a school called—well the pastor at that time was Reverend Diggs. And so we just go into his—and I don’t even remember the denomination. All I know it was a church. And I went there for first grade.

	W:	Now you were too young. I’m sure your parents would have protected you from you a lot of the specific information but these schools burning down, I’m hearing this from a lot of people. What was going on in Taylor County that all these schools were burning?

	G:	Well originally from what we found out later, it was because they had built a nice, beautiful new school for the Blacks and the White people didn’t like it. So they burned it down. So we didn’t have any place to go, and the churches took us in.

	W:	So this was a school that was built. The parents raised the money and everybody worked in the community, and that’s how the school came about?

	G:	I’m thinking, I’m not really sure because I was transported from Georgia to here and that had just happened when I got here.

	W:	But that wasn’t the first school that burned down. G:	No it wasn’t.

	W:	Or the last.





G:  Nor the last. [Laughter] No. So, but that’s what I heard. I can’t remember exactly what situation was.

W:  Did you have a favorite teacher when you were in elementary school, your early years?

G:  Kind of. Well my first teacher was really my relative. She was a lady that married my mother’s brother and her name was Naomi Hankerson, and that was my first teacher. She was real good to me and then my next teacher was Mrs. Cole.

Essie Mae Cole, that was one of my favorite teachers. In fact, I think I was in maybe like fourth or fifth grade, she decided she wanted me to come help her after school. And I would go to her house and help her with little things around the house.

W:   Why was she your favorite teacher?



	G:	Well she was just kinda good to me. You know sometimes if you have a teacher that you maybe pick up the papers for her or pass out the assignments or whatever, and then you know, it makes you feel important.

W:   Wash the boards after school.



	G:	Exactly. [Laughter] So she was one of my favorites teachers. W:	Who was your best friend when you went to that school?

	G:	Annie Jay McCoy. She was my best friend through school. From first to the twelfth grade. Sometimes I used to even spend nights at her home. Like on weekends, my mother would let me spend the night. We went to the same church and we went to the same school, we were in the same class from the first to the twelfth grade and we were always good buddies.





	W:	How close did you all live to each other? G:	About ten minutes walking distance.

	W:	And so who would walk to whoever’s house the most? Would she come to your house the most or would you go to her house?

	G:	I would come to her house the most. I would come to her house the most. W:	Okay, why’d you like to hang out at her house instead of your house?

	G:	Well, during those days, very few Black people had TVs, and she had a TV. I never would forget it. Lucille Ball, “I Love Lucy” that was the first comedy show that I seen, well TV program period. So I would like to go to her house and watch TV.

	W:	Now after you left that first school, where did you go to middle school?



G:   Another church. Well it really wasn’t middle school. I think it was still elementary; it was. Probably like, it was grades like, think it was like third through sixth grade, something like that. And over there, that’s where I met Ms. Cole. Essie Mae Cole. She taught me in fourth grade.

	W:	And where was that school located?



	G:	It was at another church and it was, what did we call that? I’m thinking it was called Camel Hill, but I’m not sure about that. But I know the area and since at this age I can’t remember too much, but I do remember the school. I remember the school.

	W:	Where’d you go to middle school at?



	G:	I believe I went to middle school to this new school, right where I am now. Yeah, because I’m thinking I went over here like in fifth grade, sixth grade. Yes I did.





	W:	And did you go to high school here as well? G:	Yes, high school here as well.

	W:	Okay so from fifth grade on, this was your home building. Did you have the same principal the whole time?

	G:	No. First I had Mr. Smith, Homer J. Smith, until I got here. When I got here I had Mr. Warner. H. L. Warner.

	W:	Now did you ever have to go to the principal’s office? G:	Never. Never, never went to the principal’s office.

	W:	Now you say that very vehemently. You never got in trouble at all?



	G:	Oh I got in trouble. Usually teachers could handle it [Laughter] Usually the teacher could handle it.

	W:	What was your favorite subject in high school? G:	Probably English and Home Ec.

	W:	Why those two?



	G:	Well, I liked the teachers and I liked the subject. I used to love Home Ec.



Because it’s nothing like now. I think Home Ec. went into what they call “Four H” and we did a lot of things that I think today really should be included in school.

Because we were taught things that everybody that has a home has to do. We were taught like table manners, we were taught cooking, we were taught sewing, we were taught a lot of things that you do in the home. So if you have a house, unless you got a maid, you gonna have to be able to do it.

	W:	Okay then that’s a part of the basic education that we don’t have anymore.





	G:	We don’t have anymore. And I think it’s lacking in a lot of our kids because no matter what you do in life, unless you become really rich and you got a maid, or a cook—

	W:	True, true, true.



	G:	[Laughter] a handyman.



	W:	You never lie. You never lie.



	G:	You gonna always have to do something.



	W:	What were your clubs and organizations in high school besides Four H, what else were you involved in?

	G:	Well I was involved in a lot of sports. I was involved in basketball. I played basketball from the time I was in ninth grade to the twelfth grade.

	W:	Now you saying that like you hurt somebody. You love basketball.



	G:	I loved it. I was first string. At that time the rules were quite different. I was what you call a guard and at that time the court was divided in half. Guards couldn’t go across the line. So they don’t do that anymore. You play the whole field, but during that time guards didn’t go across the line. So I loved it and I was on the cheering squad for the football team. And I loved that part too.

	W:	Now how good was your girls’ basketball team? Because you sound like you ain’t let nobody score on you.

	G:	We were good, but we had better teams in our conference. We got a chance to go the championship game which we played at A&M and then you know to see who was the champs for the whole area and we got—what is that word—we won





two games and then missed a game and then we played for, what was it, it’s a word you play for?

	W:	When you missed a game you mean you lost or you forfeited?



	G:	We lost the game. But we were able to play another game and play— W:	You were in the losers’ bracket and got the consolation.

	G:	That’s exactly what it was. We got the consolation. W:	So y’all got third place?

	G:	We got third place, we did. You’re on it, you’re on it. That’s exactly what happened.

	W:	Okay well that was good. Your team, do you ever still talk to any of the women that were on?

	G:	Oh yes, yes. In fact, my best friend, she just died—was it last year or year before last? I used to talk to her all the time. And one of the other players which was first string, in fact she was the captain of the team. I happen to see her this year at a funeral. Her sister died in Fayetteville. And so she came to it and we got a chance to talk. But other than that, I haven’t seen any others. I saw one player here today. And her name was Jessie Bell Irvin. But that’s all. She lives here in Fayetteville.

	W:	Do you find that having played in sports has made you a more confident person?



I mean are you a stronger woman because you were in sports?



	G:	In a lot of things yes. Like in your job or whatever because I graduated from high school, but I didn’t go to college. So when I got married and my husband was in the military, I went on a job like at the bottom. But for maybe a year and a half,





two years, I was a manager. And it was like I never wanted to be on the bottom. I always wanted to excel in whatever I do. I wanted to excel and so I worked my way right on up to managing. Working for the Air Force and exchange service you have steps like “UA1”: Universal Salary one, Universal Salary two. And I made Universal Salary nine. UA9 before I retired. So that playing in basketball gave me the desire to not just be there. To wanna excel.

	W:	Do you think that your coach had anything to do with that? Who was your coach?



	G:	Oh we had several during the time. I had one called Ms. Len, that was the last one I had was Ms. Len. And I had one was named Ms.—what was the other one name? I saw her picture today on the wall. Oh gosh, I can’t think of her name, but she’s out there on that wall. But my last one, Ms. Len, and she was very good.

	She pushed us until we worked really hard. W:	Now you say you were also in cheerleading? G:	Yes.

	W:	Okay, what was that like?



	G:	Oh that was wonderful. We got a lot of chances to go with the varsity team out of town. We would go to places like Live Oak, Madison, Monticello and played those—that was our competition—and play those teams. We would cheer for our football team.

	W:	Now a few years later you all had those undefeated teams. How did you do when you were in school?





	G:	When I was in school, we always got to almost win. Quite a bit, we almost win but we didn’t. We didn’t get to get the championship. And I understand right after I graduated that’s when they got the undefeated team. Yeah they did, they did.

	W:	So you knew Coach Turner? G:	Oh of course, of course.

	W:	What are your memories of Coach Turner?



	G:	Oh Coach Turner was a character [Laughter] He had comedy, but he pushed you. But the comedy softened it. So everybody respected him.

	W:	Did you take his class? G:	No I didn’t take his class.

	W:	So you don’t know the two-hundred and six bones of the body. G:	No, no. [Laughter]

	W:	But you heard that story.



	G:	I heard that story but I don’t know that. During that time, only your coach would handle the girls and the men coach would handle the boys. It’s not like it is now, where it doesn’t matter. Because even now I think sometimes they even have lady coaches for men but during that time it was only women coaches for us.

	W:	So you graduated from Perry, from Jerkins in Perry, and then you were ready to go? Did you stay in town for a while or did you just leave here?

	G:	No, I graduated from Jerkins probably the early part of June and by the first of July I went to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

	W:	Now how did you end up going to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania?





	G:	I had an aunt there and I always had this dream that I would go there and live with her, and I would work and I would go to school, but that plan didn’t work. So I went there and I stayed about three months, then I came back to Fayetteville—I mean Perry. And then I got to Perry. I stayed here about three months and got married.

	W:	How did you meet the man that you married?



	G:	He was just coming back from Korea, and he came, in fact I had met him when I was in tenth grade, and he said “When you graduate from high school, we gonna get married.” I thought it was a joke, but then I met him again when I graduated, just like I did and we did get married.

	W:	What did you all go to prom or anything together or did he just said “When you graduate we gonna get married”?

	G:	We gonna get married.



	W:	Well why’d you marry him?



G:  We talked, we talked, we dated for a while you know whatever. But like I said, I left here and I went up North and I stayed a while. And then when I came back, we dated a while and then we did get married.

W:  So you had to think about it and it seemed like a good thing? G:  Yes.

	W:	How long was he in Korea?



	G:	He stayed in Korea probably thirteen months, thirteen months.



W:  Now you went to Fayetteville, so that meant you were an army wife. You lived at Bragg.





	G:	Yes I lived at Bragg for--I lived at Fayetteville, which is about, where I lived it’s about eleven miles from Fort. Bragg. And we lived in Fayetteville from 1957 until the present time.

	W:	Let me guess, off Murchison road? G:	Yes.

	W:	That’s where my mom lived off Murchison road when I was a baby. G:	Oh my goodness.

	W:	Right there next to Fayetteville State. G:	You gotta be kidding.

	W:	No, we have a lot in common.



G:  We do. I lived on a street that I could to walk to Fayetteville State in about seven minutes.

W:  Same thing. Right across the street. She showed it to me for the first time when I went to her high school reunion with her this year. And I was like “Oh you’re right across the street from Fayetteville State.”

G:  Oh my goodness, oh my goodness, that it wonderful. W:  Small world.

G:   Small world, it is.



W:   Did you enjoy the army life?



	G:	Yes I did. I did. I enjoyed mostly my job. I really enjoyed working on the base, I did, because it’s a wonderful experience. You meet people from everywhere in the world. And I mean, you just get to know different things, see different things, talk to different people. And I enjoy people period because it’s what I do now. I





work for a card shop. And when you working in a place like that, you got people, when they come in, they’re in a good atmosphere because they coming to do something for somebody. When you come in to buy a gift card or a gift, you’re in a good frame of mind. So I always liked people, liked working around people and doing things for people.

	W:	If you could have had a different life than the life that you have had, and I’m sure that you very much enjoy your life, you have some very rich stories and you talked about a beautiful family and a great life, but if you were not you, and you would go back and make some choices, what would you be doing besides what you’re doing now?

	G:	I think if I had a different life, I would have gone to college and I would have gotten me probably a nursing degree and I still would be doing something for some people because I like working with people.

	W:	Now why nursing? Why the health sciences?



	G:	I don’t know. When I was a kid, I always said I wanted to be a nurse and I think that I would have gotten a lot of fulfillment out of that.

	W:	Now any of your kids or grands gone into a medical field?



	G:	No, no. My only child I got that went to college is my baby girl and she’s a teacher. And she still lives in North Caroline but not Fayetteville. She lives in Charlotte.

	W:	Okay yeah Charlotte’s big now.



	G:	Big and I wouldn’t wanna live there for nothing.





	W:	Yeah remember when it was nothing? Now Charlotte goes all the way down to Clover. Really, Charlotte is fifty miles into South Carolina.

	G:	It is, it really is.



	W:	I remember going to Carowinds as a little boy. G:	Yes, I’ve gone there several times.

	W:	Half staying in South Carolina and North Carolina at the same time. G:	Exactly. [Laughter]

	W:	Well now that you’re here and experiencing the Jerkins reunion, what are your thoughts? What are your hopes for the future for different things like this? They’re talking about doing another one in 2012. Is that something that you’d like to see happen?

	G:	Oh yes I would love it because they had on in— W:	[19]97.

	G:	[19]97, the first one they had. It was just something unreal. It was really great. I think it was about five hundred and something people here. From everywhere. But they were all graduates from Perry. From Jerkins High School.

	W:	Is it important? You’ve talked about that legacy. Why is it important to keep letting people know about Jerkins High school and what took place here? I mean the fact that people are from here and did good things, that’s great, but why did it have to be like “We’re from Jerkins and you need to know that”? Why is that important for you and the other graduates?

	G:	Well for me it is because there’s a stigma about smaller towns. I noticed working on the military base, when I would ask a G.I “Where are you from?” and he would





tell me “I’m from Florida.” I said, “Oh you are? I’m from Florida. Where are you from?” First thing outta their mouth, “Tampa”, “Miami”, “Jacksonville”. Majority of the time, they came from some little small town with two thousand people but they don’t want nobody to know. I don’t know why. But to me, this says to me, even though this is Perry--and when I was here I guess Perry probably had four thousand people or two thousand people—look what came out of Perry. So that’s what’s important to me. That’s really something to me.

	W:	Touches the heart.



	G:	Touches the heart to let you know it’s not where you’re from, it’s where you are right now. So that just gives you a warm feeling.

	W:	Is there anybody in particular that you are expecting to see this weekend or you would like to see to bring back some memories from high school?

	G:	I really would like to see more of my classmates because this is the first time that I came to something that Jerkins had that is this small amount of people that was in my class. Because the first reunion that we had, we had probably about fifteen people or more, maybe about twenty people from my class that came. But this time I only seen about four people besides myself.

	W:	Now you mean the class of [19]57 proper or would you count [19]56, [19]58 the people around you?

	G:	No just the people from my class. Class of 1956. I’ve only seen about four or five people. But I would love to see some more of my classmates.

	W:	Well Ms. Glenn I appreciate so much being able to talk with you and on behalf of the Sam Proctor History Program we want to thank you for taking the time to do





this interview. You come from North Carolina to be here and to share this time with us, it wasn’t something you had to do so we appreciate it. And I like to close every interview by giving the person I speak with the opportunity to express their own comments. If there’s something that maybe we didn’t talk about in the interview or you wanna reflect on what we talked about or you want to talk about Jerkins or a teacher or a friend whatever it is, when you finish that, that’ll conclude the interview.

	G:	Not really. Only thing I would like to say is I think this is a great thing that you’re doing and it just gives us an opportunity to express how we feel about our school and our town here. And that it’s not where you’re from, it’s just where you are now. And thank you so much for the interview.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:  Sandra Romero, September 3, 2015 Audit-edited by: Anupa Kotipoyina, October, 12, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019