AAHP 352; Parker and Moore; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 352 Mildred Parker and Nellie Moore African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed on February 27, 2008

18 minutes | 9 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 352

Interviewee: Mildred Parker and Nellie Moore Interviewer:

Date: February 27, 2008



	M:	—we lived out in the Brooklyn area out there. I went to Brown school out there.



Once I got past that, my older sister lived in Gainesville so I went there and I went to Lakeland. Then she divorced and separated so I had to come back home. Then I had to go to Lake Town with my aunt because they had school buses when no bus is running here. So I was there then and in 1946 I came back—cause buses was running—to live with my mom. That’s when I finished at ACT. The experience I had there, well, I loved it. My home teacher was Mr.—I think his name was James Green. He was the science teacher; taught biology, chemistry, trigonometry, stuff like that. I remember I was a secretary in class and I had to write letters for him to get football teams coming, playing. Because there were no organizations that planned your year out for you, so I had to do all that writing for him to do that. My English teacher, I think it was Mrs. Shepherd—I think that’s, I can’t remember first names. I enjoyed English but I didn’t care too much about literature. I always thought that if they want you to know something why don’t they pay?. [Laughter] But I had to write a thesis one time on, why was the war between Russia and the United States inevitable? And I mean back then we weren’t able to be taking papers. My mom worked for a little White lady and I said, “Momma bring all the paper you can get in any manner you can get it.” I never will forget I made an A on that thesis. And I tried to save that thing, I said, “I want my children to see this.” But when you move, in the process of moving you lose things. Evans was our Home EC teacher. She asked you to cook and bake and everything. Ms. Moultry, you know her don’t you? She’s P.E. teacher





and she taught history, and then she was the basketball coach for the girls. Everything up there was fine, but you know during that time. Because you had the Home EC room that was what you called the lunch room. That’s where the football boys had to eat. Outdoor toilets, but we made it. It was just a good thing. My class had I think about fifteen seniors and most of ‘em I think—some have passed on, but few, I think two or three of ‘em have passed on—we are still living.

	I:	Really? Are they in the area? Just in different places?



	M:	No, it’s just three of us in the area now. Most of ‘em left, and some have passed away, but it was very good. The time was rough, but we called it [inaudible 03:32] then, we didn’t call it poor.

	P:	I had a horse



	I:	You did?



	M:	Yeah, y’all was younger than I. [Laughter] Yeah he called it [inaudible 03:41] club. A sheep is what you taught then. And we would always have at the end of the year graduation, and the prom for the seniors. We had proms back then. It was good. I never wanna miss a day from school. And I was always, I would go out there if I didn’t feel good, I would still go. I didn’t want to miss a day from school. And I never wanted to be the tail of the class. And I know in Grandma’s school one day, we used to have a spelling—you’d stand in line and if you spelled your word you was all right, but if you missed it, you had to go to the tail and I remember this word the teacher said [inaudible 04:38]. Nobody, they wouldn’t spell it. It got to me, and before she got to me she said: I think y’all





mispronounced the word, you can call it [inaudible 04:50] and I said: “Thank god”. [Laughter] And so when it got to me I spelled it. I never wanted to be the tail of anything. As long as I was in the middle, I didn’t want to be back there. I loved chemistry and biology. I don’t know, it was something about those formulas I just love. A little bit harder when it got to trigonometry but I think I did the best I could. The highest people of our league. So I had a good time.

	P:	My experiences I suppose are similar. I was behind her. I:	Tell us who you are.

	P:	I am Mildred Millet Parker, and I grew up about midway between Alachua and a bland community. I walked to school, I walked about three miles. My sister and I walked—we used to leave home and go down to what they call the Bellamy scenic road, I don’t know if you know where that is, anyway, from my house we walked through the Bellamy scenic road. And my sister and I would stand there and we would chat and play with a group of White kids who also lived in the area. A school bus would come along, they would get on the school bus, and my sister and I would begin walking. We walked this road that is in front of the school here. It was not a paved road at the time, it was beautiful white sand out there. The school bus that they were on had to pass the same little street that you turn up to go to ACT but we couldn’t ride that bus. Although it passed right by that little street and we could have gotten off and walked that much. But we walked the three miles, and three miles back home in the afternoon. I remember Mr. Welch talked about problems getting money, that’s how the school half hour enter kids





come out of the White school. One of the questions was asked about racial tension, well we had no racial tension in our school because we were all Black.

	M:	All Black.



	P:	And they were all White.



	I:	It is consistently the same response, and we have spoken to several who say there wasn’t—

	P:	The only thing that I could say about [inaudible 7:27] because he kept us in school longer than they were in school in order to avoid having the two races encounter as they were going home. That was the only thing racial about it. It was a glorious experience for me. I began down there in the seventh grade, because I too went to one of the little country schools. My school was called Fairfield and it was out in the Spring Rove area. I came to ACT as a seventh grader. Prof. Mebane was the principal of course. His wife Mrs. Mebane taught all of the math. Mrs. Welch—Mr. Welch’s wife—taught English, she also was the choral teacher. Now, she and Mrs. Evans—who taught Home Economics—and Annette Sheppard who taught English were my three favorites. There was something about those three women that was very impressive to me. Mrs.

Welch, she seemed to be in command of herself. She didn’t seem to be a person who needed pushing. She was my idol. To this day I consider her my greatest role model. She was my choral teacher, and she taught English—she didn’t teach me English but she did teach those subjects. Ms. Sheppard, I really liked. She was very [chuckles]—we called her flighty back then, she was always in a





hurry. But she, Ms. Evans, and Mrs. Welch, seemed like perfectionists. Everything had to be just so—

	I:	Her expectations were high.



	P:	Right. Absolutely, their expectations were very high. When I went away to college—I came from a very poor family, as we all did—Mr. Mebane, prof. Mebane, wrote a letter for me. He and the president of A&T college in Greensboro, North Carolina, had been friends and so that is where I was going to school. He wrote a letter for me to Dr. Bluehood saying, “This is a good student if you can help her please do.” Cause I needed money, I didn’t have money to go to school. And he did, he got me a job at the school cafeteria to help pay my fees for going to school. As far as what it did for me, I think the entire faculty at ACT was more family-like. They were teachers who nurtured you. They expected you to do well, and they pushed you to that end. So I suppose my being a teacher myself came from that. At first I thought I wanted to be a music teacher—Mrs.

Welch was my idol. But I didn’t know how to play the piano and it wasn’t until I was grown, and in fact I had retired, before she said to me, “Well you could have been a music teacher because you could have majored in music education, you didn’t have to know how to play the piano.” I said, “Well now you tell me”. [Laughter] And Ms. Evans of course was very much of a perfectionist and you just had to have everything just right for her. So I said, okay, maybe I’ll major in Home Economics. When I got to A&T I really did register in Home Economics.

But, after that first quarter I said, “This is not for me.” The cooking, the sowing, and I even had a course in horticulture, but no I didn’t want to do that. My calling,





I believe, was English. I majored in English, with a minor in History. But that was Ms. Sheppard, that was her influence on me. And I think that was really what I was supposed to do, be an English teacher. I thought I would be it for a while, but I moved from that into educational media. So, I became a media specialist and most of my teaching career that’s what I did. But for me, ACT was the epitome of what a school should be. We had nothing. I never had a new text book the entire time I was at ACT. Our books came from the White school.

	M:	When they were through with them they sent boxes of books over to us, that’s what we used.

P:  The teachers would go through them and if there were torn-out pages they would discard those. There were always name of the kids who had had them before us. Never did we have a new text book. But we did what we were supposed to do.

As far as labs are concerned, we didn’t have a lab. But Mrs. Burges, Maryann Burges—scrap-eater she became—was my chemistry teacher. We had one Bunsen burner in our Chemistry class, but she taught us chemistry. Mr. Green, James Green, taught me Biology. He was our science teacher. Ms. Mootry was out P.E. teacher and she was—

	M:	She was [Laughter]—



	I:	[While laughing] I can see your faces, both of you, okay. But so much, with so less.

	P:	Absolutely, absolutely.



I:   You know doing so much and learning so much. So much engagement. So much of a connection, the village with school, with community, with teachers. It was like





that during my time when you knew what’d happened before you got home. It is just that combination of things that it still takes to educate and to raise young people. Tell me about your Mebane connections, because I heard you say that your son attended Mebane High School.

	M:	I had three come through here. [Interruption] Three children come to A.L. Mebane. Two sons and a daughter.

	I:	And they’re passionate for A.L. Mebane. I tell you, Charles, boy he is passionate for A.L. Mebane. [Laughter]

	M:	My oldest son, he graduated from here in [19]64. Charles graduated in [19]67, no in 1969. My daughter graduated in [19]71. He went into the service, the older one did. Then he come out and he was a fireman for thirty years. Charles went to A.L. My daughter went to nursing school, she is a nurse in Maryland—she lives in Maryland. So they all come through, they got their background right over here.

	I:	The success from A.L. Mebane High School.



	M:	From A.L. Mebane High School and that’s how I am connected to A.L. Mebane, because of them.

	I:	Even the mother. [Laughter] M:	From ACT to A.L. Mebane.

	I:	And those are the experiences we got in the last day or so. Just parents and their beginnings but their children coming through. And again, you were during those times, it was tough. It was still tough—

	M:	It was. My daughter never saw her dad, he died before she was born. I never remarried. Worked with the village, I had to support my family.





	I:	And college educates young people, your children have gone—



	M:	And they didn’t get no scholarship either. I had to pay for scholarships. [Laughter]



	I:	This has been great. Thank you ladies for coming and sharing. I am at an age where this has been such a historical journey for me. That is one of the purposes for doing this. You really can’t expect to lead people that you won’t follow, which you also have to know, and have a vision, as to where you want, not just my staff but for my children. To understand that this is not just your school, every school has a history and a culture. And A.L. Mebane High School, the alumni association doesn’t let me forget this is A.L. Me-banes. [Laughter]

	P:	That’s right, and I was teaching here when [inaudible 16:33]. I:	Really? How long did you teach here?

	P:	Eleven years.



	I:	What subject?



	P:	On my first year here I taught English, and then I became the librarian here. I was here until Mr. Towlet, who was superintendent at the time, called and said: “You will be at Westwood next year.” So I stayed here until I was transferred out of here to go to Westwood.

	I:	How long were you at Westwood?



	P:	At Westwood? Fifteen years and from there to Prairie View [School], fourteen years. I think I even taught at old Lincoln. My first teaching experience was under professor Jones, A. Quinn Jones, he was at the old Lincoln High school. The old, old Lincoln, well that’s where I began my teaching career; at the old Lincoln.

	I:	Thank you so much, it has been a pleasure.





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Juanita Duque, October 27, 2017 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 3, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019