AAHP 090; Martin; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 090 Mary Maple Smith Martin African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on June 14, 2010 19 minutes | 10 pages



Abstract: Mary Maple Smith martin was born February 20, 1926 and is the great-aunt of the interviewer Marna Weston. She reflects on her childhood living on a farm as well as her early education at Lonely Hill. Mrs. Martin also goes into detail about her family and being the seventh out of ten siblings. She recounted her daily chores as well as went into detail regarding what she would do for fun. Mrs. Martin then reflected on attending Armstrong High School and her involvement in extracurricular activities and events such as Glee Club, prom and graduation. Towards the end, she talks about voting for Kennedy and recalls the day of his assassination. She closes with her daily activities living in Roseboro, North Carolina.



[Keywords: African American History; North Carolina, Armstrong High School] Standards:

SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.







































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 090

Interviewee: Mary Maple Smith Martin Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date: June 14, 2010





	W:	This is June 14, 2010 in Autryville, North Carolina. The interviewer is Marna Weston for the Sam Proctor Oral History Program with the University of Florida and for my family. I’m speaking with my great-aunt Mary Maple Smith Martin, also known as Aunt Mape so thank you for doing the interview tonight, Aunt Mape.

	M:	Now where-



	W:	You can just speak right into the air. Just whatever you say it will pick it up, see these green lights?

	M:	Oh I am the seventh child of George Leo and Percy Smith- Percy Crumplet Smith and I was raised on a farm. We would have to get up early and hit the field. I attended elementary school and walked each and every day, rain or snow, sun or shine, I went to that school not far from me, I reckon about a mile. For two years straight without missing a date and I remember going to school and being late at home. Down through the years I went to high school, Armstrong High. I sometimes got good grades and sometimes wouldn’t and so I finished the course and then I still selling on the farm, met my husband and we got married. We’ve been married for- I got married in 1956, so we have been together up until this following year and my age?

	W:	Yes please, when were you born?



	M:	I was born February 20, the year of 1926. W:	What is your husband’s name?

	M:	My husband’s name is Leo D. Martin.





	W:	Now that school that you mentioned, the first little school that you went to. What was the name of that school?

	M:	The first school I went to was Lonely Hill and that was not far from me where I could walk each and every day.

	W:	Was it a big school or a small school?



	M:	It was a one room school, one room school and— what I was gonna say?



	W:	Tell me about your brothers and sisters. You were the seventh of ten, so tell me about all of them. Can you tell me from oldest to youngest?

	M:	The oldest sister was May Ally Smith Roberson. She married and had four children, three girls and one boy. And my oldest brother was Robert, George Robert Smith. He had two children and his wife was named Mary. By coincidence the lady that he married, we went to high school together and we was also classmates.

	W:	What was her name?



	M:	Her name was Mary Smith. Mary Constance Smith and I had five brothers but I just named my oldest brother Robert, George Robert. And her brother Milo, Belton J. Smith, Odell Smith, Ariel Smith and so there was ten of us children, five boys and five girls.

	W:	Well I see you have some sisters that you haven’t mentioned yet.



	M:	Oh I have a sister, the May baby is Wilhelmina Smith Hamilton. She lives in Pensacola, Florida. It’s the only sister I have that’s living and I have one brother, Belton J. Smith he lives at Steadman. So out of the three siblings there is just three of us left now that’s living.





	W:	Wilhelmina, F.J. and yourself. M:	Yeah.

	W:	Now, you left out my grandma.



	M:	Oh, I have a sister named Lucille Smith. Yes, that was a- can I have your name? W:	Marna.

	M:	Marna?



	W:	Uh-huh.



	M:	Grandmother, and it was my sister, Lucille.



	W:	You’re doing really good. Let me talk to you a little bit about what it was like with your grandparents. You’ve talked about your parents Lil and Percy but do you remember on your dad’s side, on George Lil’s side. What were his parents like and what were their names?

	M:	Well now, on my father’s side I don’t know his parents, I don’t remember them. but on my mother’s side I do remember seeing— I was a child— seeing her grandmother- I think her name was Liz- and my grandfather on my mother’s side was named Amos.

	W:	Crompery.



	M:	I remember him, I’m a small child, but I don’t know anything on my father’s side.



	W:	Growing up here at Orchardville, at your parent’s home, what was a typical day like for you with nine other brothers and sisters?

	M:	Well, I don’t know right now— [Telephone Rings]



	W:	Re-continuing the interview with Mary Martin in Orchardville on June 14, 2010.



Did you have chores?





	M:	Chores?



	W:	Chores.



	M:	To do?



	W:	Uh-huh. Growing up, did you have chores?



	M:	Oh yeah we had to feed the animals and do the house chores, we had— each one had to do was to make the beds or sweep the yard and the yard we had to sweep it even if we don’t like it. Alone, how it’s now old and grey and it mows the lawn now, but we had to sweep the whole big yard. And-

	W:	What kind of animals did you have to feed?



	M:	We had to feed the cow, the hog, the old mule, the horse, the water. You might call her the old mule.

	W:	Did you also have chickens?



	M:	Yes we had chicken and we had to feed the chickens. W:	Gather the eggs?

	M:	Yeah, we’d gather eggs. My daddy, he was a big hunter. He had several dogs that he’d go hunting and my mamma, she loved to have cats around. She always told us that the cats be around, we could always catch a snake. And I was afraid of snakes, still to this date I’m afraid of them.

	W:	So you all had chores, what did you do for fun around the house, what kind of games did you play? Did you sing or—?

	M:	We would sing we’d gather at night, we’d sitting by the fireplace. We would sing and we played, I played with my older brother and my younger brother, we would play horseshoe, we had something like the jump, jump— I don’t remember how





we’d call it but it was a board crossed along that we’d hold it. One was at one end and one at the other and we’d bounce on that-

	W:	A seesaw?



	M:	Yes it was, a seesaw. We’d jumped them so and we’d play jump rope, we’d play ball so we just had a great good time.

	W:	What kind of— you said you sang a little bit, do you still sing? M:	Not as much as I used to.

	W:	Do you recall any of the songs that you sang growing up?



M:  Oh I always did love them, what a friend we have in Jesus, and Jesus loved me. And in fact, I used to play music. I took music when I was very young, I took the third book in music and I used to play for the choir a long time ago.

W:   Did you play piano?



	M:	Yes I played the piano. I don’t know if I could hit a note now it’s been so long. W:	Could you sing part of a song that you used to sing? Just a little bit.

	M:	Yes, let’s see. Jesus loves me, this I know. By the Bible tells me so. That the one to help below, yes we abide our song.

	W:	That was very good.



	M:	Yes, Jesus loves me, yes Jesus loves me. Yes, Jesus loves me for the Bible tells me so.

	W:	Well thank you aunt Mape. Can you tell me a little about going to Armstrong High School, what was that like?

	M:	Oh, going to Armstrong they used to have what they called May Day and I was into wrapping the Maypole and I thought that was so much fun I had on a little





paper dress and the teacher worked up so hard to have it made for me and we went round and around in the circle. Circle until we ripped out the whole Maypole.

	W:	Were you involved in any clubs or activities when you were in high school? M:	I was in the Glee Club. I sang in the Glee Club.

	W:	And singing still. [Laughter]

	M:	Yeah, and—



	W:	What year did you graduate from Armstrong High School? M:	[19]48.

	W:	1948.



	M:	Uh-huh 1948.



	W:	When you graduated, what was that like? When you knew you were gonna graduate.

	M:	Oh I just don’t know. I was very, very excited. I knew that was my day. W:	Do you remember your senior prom?

	M:	I don’t know if I remember senior prom.



	W:	When you graduated in 1948, what did you do after you graduated?



	M:	I just stayed continuing on the farm; I didn’t try to look for a job or anything like that. I just stayed on the farm and helped my daddy.

	W:	You helped him with the business part or just with the work and? M:	Just sort of work, work.

	W:	Do you remember the first time you ever voted?





	M:	No, I don’t.



	W:	But you did vote?



	M:	I did vote.



	W:	When you did vote, how did you go about deciding you were gonna vote for?



	M:	Well, I just went by you know, with who was the biggest one to vote for. On down later the years you just had us to vote just straight.

	W:	Who was your favorite president? M:	Um president, I liked Kennedy.

	W:	Why did you like Kennedy?



	M:	I don’t know. He’s someone I just really liked, yeah.



	W:	Do you remember were you were when you found out that he had been killed?



What you were doing?



	M:	What I was doing when he got killed? I wasn’t doing anything but I watched it and tears just come on in my eyes. During that time of watching, you know it was-

	W:	Watching everybody crying on T.V.? M:	Right, right.

	W:	So that was very unexpected, you would’ve never thought. M:	Yes it was, really was.

	W:	Was everybody around here also kind of shocked?



	M:	Well I don’t know. I was just at home-or home by myself. I don’t really think my husband was at town when I watched.

	W:	Did you get a chance to vote in the last presidential election? M:	Is that sometime here in— ?





	W:	2008.



	M:	Oh yeah, I vote every year.



	W:	So between Obama and McCain do you- do you feel like- would you say who you voted for or why or would you like to keep the vote to yourself.

	M:	I would like to keep it to myself.



	W:	Well without saying who you voted for, now we have the first Black president, Barack Obama. Is that something that is surprising to you or when you were growing up is that something that you thought might happen?

	M:	I never would think the day that we would have a Black president. W:	Why is that?

M:  I don’t know I just didn’t realize that we would have one. W:  So what do you think about it now that we do have one? M:  I think it’s pretty great myself.

W:  So now what do you do now because I guess you retired and you’re married and you live in Roseboro, North Carolina. So what do you do on an average day?

What kind of things do you do?



	M:	Well, nothing mostly now. I just sit around, watch the T.V., read the paper. W:	Do you have a favorite T.V. show?

	M:	Well not really, I used to like— well I don’t like those soap operas I don’t watch them that much but if they happen to be on, I’ll look then but usually there’s nothing mostly special is all right with me.

	W:	When you were growing up did you listen to the radio with your family or watched the T.V. with your family?





M:  I listened to the radio back then when I was a young teenage girl, that was the only music we had back then when I was growing up they didn’t got no T.V. at that time.

W:   What kind of shows did you listen to on the radio?



	M:	It’s been so long now to remember but I tried to get that gospel station. It would come on twelve o’ clock. I listened to that but it’s been so long now till I just remembered. I don’t remember things too good now.

	W:	Have you lived in North Carolina your entire life? M:	Yeah, uh-huh.

	W:	And either in Cumberland or Sampson County?



	M:	Cumberland. I was born and raised here in Cumberland. W:	But Roseboro is in Sampson County.

	M:	Yeah, uh-huh.



	W:	So just this little area, the whole time? M:	Yeah.

	W:	What do you think about all the things taking place in the world? We have the wars and Iran and Iraq and this big oil spill that people are talking about and-

	M:	Lord yeah, this is just amazing, this is just something. Kinda, sorta brain wrecking. I guess we would, you know, say.

	W:	Well Mary Martin, I wanna thank you very much for this interview here in Orchardville and I like to take this opportunity on behalf of myself and our family, and the Sam Proctor Oral History Program for you sharing your reflections and I’d like to give you an opportunity to say anything that’s on your mind. Something





about the interview or something you thought about, or something you wanna say now and then when you are- when you finish your remarks that will be the end of the interview.

	M:	Well I’m just kinda glad that I could be of help and when you’d ask me that I was able to do my best, for you. I hope you good luck and that’s all I have to say. [Laughter]

[End of Interview]





		Transcribed by:	Anna Jimenez,	May 16, 2013



	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, September 28, 2017 Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, June 23, 2021