AAHP 624; Johnson; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 624 John Johnson 11-19-2018



Interviewed by Juliette Barbera, Aliyah Miranda, and Constance Morales on November 19, 2018

26 Pages



Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; Institute of Black Culture]



AAHP 624

Interviewee: John Johnson

Interviewer: Juliette Barbera, Aliyah Miranda, Constance Morales Date: November 19, 2018



	B:	So today is November 19th, 2018. We’re with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program interviewing Dr. John Johnson. My name is Juliette Barbera.

	Mi:	My name’s Aliyah Miranda.



	Mo:	My name is Constance Morales.



	B:	And so thank you for joining us today. Just a little bit of background info on yourself. When and where were you born?

	J:	When and where was I born? I was [laughs] I was born in 1973 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

	B:	And, I guess you want to tell us a little bit of background of yourself before becoming the director of IBC.

	J:	Sure. So I had spent most of my academic career involved in some way with efforts to address diversity, equity, and inclusion in higher education. I spent much of that time working primarily with traditionally underrepresented students and Black students specifically. I had just conducted some research for my dissertation at the University of California, Santa Cruz, focused on Black students in that system and then I spent about a year in a full time professional role at the University of California at Merced where I was working in a program that’s kind of like EOP but on a smaller scale. So I was working with traditionally underrepresented, low income, first generation students at that campus. And then when the opportunity to join the University of Florida as the director of the Institute of Black Culture was available, I jumped at the chance.





	B:	And do you want to tell us a little bit about your first impressions when you came on campus just as a perspective applicant and also when you started your position. What were your impressions of the University?

	J:	That’s a good question. [Long pause] I relocated, like drove a truck, with my car towed behind me across the country. Like three thousand miles. So I drove my possessions from Merced, California to Gainesville Florida. When I arrived there, I had already an incredible amount of time, energy, money, and for me this position was very much aligned with what I wanted to do with my career. I saw it as a career position. I know that previous directors had been on the roll for almost twenty years, not the one most previous to me, but I think the founding director had been in place for a really long time, and I knew that I was in a position to make a difference in the lives of students. What I was immediately confronted with I’d say was sort of the culture shock, especially coming from California, and my university in particular, University of Santa Cruz, where professor Ortiz is from as well is a really progressive institution, and California itself is a rather progressive state. So, finding myself in central Florida and being confronted with what I would argue is sort of just a culture of White supremacy was very jarring for me. And the structure of my particular unit, so the Institute of Black Culture was part of Multicultural and Diversity Affairs and what was happening in MCDA which we called it at the time was, I would say, very disorganized and lacked vision, lacked leadership, lacked structure, and I just felt like I was very much invested in the work but it didn’t seem like the institution was.





B:  Did you have some examples you can share with us. What that might look like when you mentioned that sometimes the visions didn’t align perhaps or I don’t know if you want to explain that a little bit more.

	J:	Well it’s hard to pull specific examples from that far back in history, but I would say [long sigh] – what are the things that jump out? We had a mostly new staff, so there were four basically center directors. So I was the director of the Institute of Black Culture. There was Dr. Eric Castillo was the director of the Institute for Hispanic and Latino cultures and then we also had, it was the Asian- Pacific Islander affairs, and LGBTQ affair. And the dynamic between those four spaces was complicated because two of them were basically resource centers run by mostly newer professionals in student affairs and then the two institutes were stand-alone two story buildings that existed essentially across the street from campus. So we weren’t really doing the same job but we all had the same title and were making around the same amount of money and we were all reporting to the director of multicultural diversity affairs who was also relatively new to the institution who answered to an ADP in the division. The director didn’t seem to have the requisite knowledge, awareness, and skills associated with inclusion and wasn’t really equipped to lead the team of professionals who were in the various offices. He often would differ to the wisdom of the ADP who also arguably didn’t have the knowledge awareness and skills to really move the unit forward. So we would have these meetings, we would have our director not offer us any inside–not offer us any sort of plan for how our units were gonna operate together. What steps we were gonna take moving forward. How we were going to





engage the larger campus community. One of the things in my current role, I have a role that I’d say is very similar to the role of the director of the MCDA at Florida and I always talk about our centers being not only integral but integrated to the larger campus community. We can’t just be an oasis where students who are having a largely marginalized experience on the campus can find some reprieve or sanctuary. Because if you do that, all you are is responding to a symptom, right, and not addressing the larger campus climate. And it felt like that was not a part of the conversation that was happening at MCDA even though that was what a lot of us who were running the particular centers wanted to do.

	B:	And so do you want to tell us a little bit about the two institutes or IBC perhaps.



What was that place for someone who may not know what that is?



	J:	Oh wow. Okay. So, the Institute of Black Culture is a Black African cultural student center that has a long history at the University of Florida. When I was there, and understand I was only in the role for about a year and that was to my knowledge it was 2011-2012, and it happened to be the year the IBC celebrated its fortieth anniversary. So in the course of sort of preparing for that celebration, that milestone celebration, we did a lot of investigation into the archives of the IBC and it’s this sort of home away from home for a lot of students. I would say this, the University of Florida, like many other predominantly White or historically White institutions in higher education has a long history of excluding people of color from that institution. When it essentially desegregated itself, all it did was desegregate itself. It did not integrate itself. So, many of the Black students at UF felt marginalized, alienated, under supported, disrespected, and they could find





comfort, support, affirmation, validation in the institute of Black culture. It certainly wasn’t the only resource on that campus but it was a very important place for that community. A lot of the alumni had a very strong connection to that space. It’s the kind of thing that helps to retain students and make them feel like they belong at an institution that often is sending them messages both subtly and blatantly that they’re not welcome.

	B:	Do you want to tell us a little bit about what type of meetings would happen there? What type of organizations perhaps, like what was the space utilized for by patrons of this place?

	J:	Yes. So, we were very lucky. And I say lucky relative to the kinds of resource centers that exist in other campuses across the landscape of higher education. The Institute of Black Culture had a reading room with African American text, it had what we would call a multi-purpose space that was used for programming. It had a lounge area that students can come and hang out. It also had a computer lab and a kitchen in the back, or a kitchen like area in the back. It had resources in terms of student staff who were there to support and respond to the needs that students might have. There were a number of programs that met in that space.

There were student organizations that held meetings in that space on a regular basis. There were programs that were run out of the institute, in particular, some of them that come to mind are while their titles are problematic, they were efforts to bring the community together and support particular student populations. One that comes to mind is the Black male development initiative and the Black women’s image initiative. Both of them were like student run programs designed





to bring segments of the Black community together to support each other and to assist them in their academic success and their professional development. And there were lots of other programs and meetings that would happen there. We partnered a lot with counseling and psychological services and would have spaces for discussion and conversation around Black identity and just navigating the campus environment.

	B:	And at the time were there any community organizations or community members who would use the IBC or was it strictly for campus use?

	J:	It was mostly for campus use. It was less likely that we would be available for the larger community. We tried to I think do that once or twice but it wasn’t really doable in the way that we wanted to prioritize the needs of the students in the campus community. That was, like in a lot of places, space is at a premium so it’s hard to reserve like a smart room or at least it was hard then, where we had a space that had moveable chairs, where you could bring in food. The food didn’t have to sort of align with on campus catering requirements. We had the capacity to project something on a screen, which wasn’t in abundance in locations around campus. So we had a lot of request for the space and it was in high use just by the students in the campus community. But I can remember once or twice having maybe some conversations with community members or community groups but I don’t think we actually did it very much if at all.

	B:	And did you have any visions coming in for what you wanted IBC to be like.





	J:	I would just say, similar to what I was talking about what we’re doing here at FS state, really recognizing that what our students are often encountering in these predominately White institutions is what I would– I describe it in certain spaces or in certain paintings as, if I could use sort of academic lingo, it’s about creating apertures for access to academic discipline and cultivating academic self- efficacy. The simpler way to put that is, because these institutions are desegregated rather than integrated, when students enter into the institutions they don’t often find themselves reflected in the curriculum, they don’t often find pathways to access particular majors, they are largely expected to assimilate to matriculate. And then when they find themselves in situations where for whatever reason, whether it’s the clear biases of the instructor, whether it’s the not relevant curriculum, whatever the factors are a lot of time students don’t feel their own sense of academic self-efficacy developing. They don’t feel confident in their ability to achieve in their various classes and they are receiving a message that maybe college is not for them. So, it’s really about creating those spaces and you can’t do that within the four walls of a student resource center. So what we wanted to do was not only communicate how important it is for other units in other areas across campus to also be invested in the success of Black students and not to abdicate their responsibility because the IBC exists but also to create opportunities to really inspire and engage and pour into the Black students that were at the university. One of the things that come to mind is a speaker series that we created while I was there which was about identifying the really exceptional research that was being done by some of the Black graduate





students on the campus and bringing that into the center and spotlighting it and showcasing that work. Cause what would happen a lot of times would be students would put together a presentation and be accepted to present at a national conference somewhere and present at that conference but never present that on our actual campus. So, you would have situations where students, Black students in a variety of majors at University of Florida could spend four or five or six years, however many years it is and never have a Black faculty member. So they weren’t really receiving a narrative around Black intellectualism and in fact they were receiving a message that intellectualism or intelligence resides in particular types of bodies. And at University of Florida’s campus in particular, and I talk about this even now in other spaces, is that if you are a Black student or really any student on that campus, you can walk across on any given day and you’ll see ten to twenty Black custodians but you might never see a Black faculty member and that’s a problem. And that’s what we were trying to address through the institute of Black culture while we were there or while I was there.

	B:	And when you were in this position, you had mentioned how sometimes the MCDA’s picture was about maybe keeping it with– or like the symptoms that you mentioned and not necessarily addressing the problems. In your position were you able to do those things that you were mentioning successfully or was there a lot of tension among that, the beacon that you had in your program. Was there any tension with that?





	J:	So your question was about whether or not we were able to accomplish some of those things?

	B:	Well I guess you were able to accomplish it but I meant like how you were initially saying how you had a certain vision and sometimes they don’t, the institute doesn’t seem to be invested in addressing the more structural things. So I was just wondering what that was like for you to bring these programs, was there any tension or was it accepted by supervisors or anything like that.

	J:	That’s a good question. So, I was [Laughter], I was in a meeting the other day and I’ll be, I’ll be candid. I was in a meeting the other day– I was actually guest presenting at a class and I indicated that one of the largest obstacles to my professional success was academic ego. And, I was a relatively newly minted PH.D when I came to the University of Florida and what I had found historically in student affairs is that there are not a lot of PH.D’s in student affairs because that’s not the degree that’s associated with that field. So I was on an academic track, academically I was planning for a career in the professoriate, but I ended up doing research that was focused on the experiences of students in higher education. I was working a lot with student affairs and it basically altered the path of my profession, but I had still gone through the gauntlet that is a PH.D. I still had received the kind of training that comes with achieving that particular credential and I was also a University of California institution that is maybe one of the more progressive and one of the more well-resourced universities in the country. So I felt like I got really quality training in some regards, right. So I knew what capacity that I had, so when I arrived at Florida, I felt like what they were





saying was “just be this thing” right, be this small thing, this small insignificant thing, and don’t try to be an academic, don’t try to be a scholar, don’t try to be an intellectual, don’t try to play in that sandbox with the faculty, we generally don’t do that so, mind your business, stay in your lane, play your position, etcetera etcetera. And it wasn’t like I felt a lot of pushback, it just felt like when you have a director, when the person that I report to doesn’t have any understanding about what that kind of training looks like or doesn’t have any kind of large scale vision but really is like just an administrator in the most like rigid and traditional sense of the word where their role– they viewed, in my opinion, they viewed my role as executing their vision and that wasn’t gonna work for me. And it didn’t work for a lot of us. Like I was probably the first person to leave but essentially everyone that was on the team when I got there was gone within two years. So, including the director ultimately, and I’ve been following from afar over these last 8 years and I have seen almost every year there’s been another major change to MCDA or another major change and they reclassified it as something else or another new staff person or another– like things have been, I would argue not necessarily moving in a sort of planned or strategic direction since I have left. And I also was only there for about a year, and that’s not what I wanted to do, that wasn’t part of my plan but the conditions in that particular unit at the time–and I think a lot of this is about timing, because if you have a different director, if you have a different AVP, there’s a lot of opportunities for that unit to really flourish and make a significant impact on the campus, maybe that’s actually beginning to happen now. I know they demolished the buildings, I wonder if that would’ve happened if





I had stayed, but it didn’t feel like there was significant institutional investment. And I would say, I don’t know what it looks like now but it feels like– like I remember I spent, I spent probably a say, a whole day, on a weekend, in the IBC, converting what was turned into a storage unit which was a second bathroom on the second floor of the building. They had basically had abandoned that space and said this cannot function as a bathroom because facilities would not respond to the request to repair it. So the folks who were running the IBC before me said screw it we’ll just turn it into a storage room. Even though we had sometimes a hundred people on the second floor for a program or event and it would be really valuable to have a restroom on the second floor. So I emptied it out and said we’re going to turn this back into a bathroom and I think we had it working for about a month before something happened again and then there were other concerns about the requirements around the pipes in that building because the building was so old, but it really just reflected a fundamental lack of care on behalf of the institution in maintaining those spaces and supporting that community.

	B:	And were you able to talk to any previous directors before coming in or any other staff members that maybe told you about these type of stories prior to?

	J:	You know, I did talk to the previous director whose name escapes me, and I thought that I was actually walking into a very difficult situation. So, the previous director had been there for I believe four years, was an alumni of the university of Florida, previously worked in the office of student organizations and was Greek, so was an alpha. So I thought I was gonna have all of the biggest shoes to fill in





order to be successful in that role. That didn’t prove to be the case. But I did have a chance to talk to them and they didn’t really warn me about any of those issues. I think they just,–I can’t really remember anything significant that they brought up. I think they were the ones who maybe told me that the fortieth anniversary was coming up, but other than that I don’t think there was anything that I recall benefitting from that conversation.

	B:	And, you want to tell us about the fortieth year anniversary celebration?



	J:	Oh, well yeah, that was, that was an interesting scenario that I found myself in as well because I was brand new to the campus and to the role but then I was basically tasked with organizing a fortieth anniversary celebration which is not easy to do when you’re a newer person. But we were able to put something together, we partnered with the Black alumni association and we actually brought in Dr. Laurie Patton as a featured speaker and Laurie Patton actually did– is known in student affairs circles for writing the first, basically text on cultural centers in higher education and one of her dissertation subjects was the university of Florida, the institute of Black culture. So the IBC is featured in her book and she was in a real good position to not only communicate the significance of these spaces and these centers just in general, but also to the university administration who were present at our fortieth anniversary celebration. We were able to pull out some of these big photo albums or archive books to showcase the things that the IBC had done over the years. We were able to invite some, I think some former directors came, and it was a really nice celebration of the history of that unit but it may have been the beginning of the





end as well because things started to I’d say– it didn’t sort of lead to the growth and recognition and appreciation that I thought would be coming.

	B:	So do you want to tell us a little bit about the significance of the space. Some people may not know the history, or do you want to tell us a little bit about that? Or like why those spaces matter? ‘Cause sometimes something that also comes up is people see it as self-segregation or these different type of topics where they just don’t know about the history, so I was just wondering during this fortieth anniversary there’s any themes that were mentioned about why it’s important perhaps.

	J:	I can’t answer your specific question but I will say we had on the wall in the center, a picture from when the students were gathered in front of the main administrative building protesting to establish the institute of Black culture, or to establish a center. Cause again, that’s a big part of the history of higher education, not just at the University of Florida but at other institutions as well.

Because when these institutions, often as a result of legislative demand, desegregated themselves, they just simply allowed Black students access. And when they allowed Black students access, the Black students still experienced tremendous discrimination, racism, prejudice, etcetera etcetera. There is the classic text by Beverley Tatum, “Why are all the Black Kids Sitting Together in the Cafeteria,” and it’s not necessarily about self-segregation as much as it is about self-protection. So, the students are trying to find sanctuary, protection from micro-aggression, protection from people stereotyping them as athletes, protection from people questioning there legitimacy and there status as admits to





the University of Florida thinking that they were admitted as a result of affirmative action, that they don’t have a right to be there. So all those things were happening for students and the students were at a point where they said we need a space so that we feel supported at the institution we actually pay to attend. So, these institutions are so important and in the early days, they often emerged as a result of student protest for these things to exist. That’s true at San Francisco state and it’s true at the University of Florida. It’s not the insight of university administrators knowing that they need to create these spaces for students, it’s that they’re a response to the demand because students are not being treated with respect or value at institutions where they attend.

	B:	And coming to University of Florida did you–is that where you learned about Black Thursday?

	J:	Yes.



	B:	So, what was it described to you as. Do you recall what the narrative was behind Black Thursday that you received?

	J:	Imma need you to– I didn’t do like research and go back in to my archives for this interview.

	B:	Okay. Cause I was wondering, so one thing I see that comes up, I was trying to see if this was like a theme, but a lot of people describe Black Thursday as an event and they don’t tie it to the national movement that you’re speaking of, so I was wondering if when you came to the University of Florida was it described to you as the national movement or was it just a narrative like there’s a student





protest and then IBC happened. I was just wondering what the narrative was around that story.

	J:	Oh. I would argue that from what I observed in the time that I was there was that students generally had no awareness or connection to not only a national movement but the movement that happened at the University of Florida.

Students just knew that there was a space. And a big part of it was just, how do they even know that the space exists. We saw a decent amount of traffic in the IBC, but we certainly didn’t see the majority of Black students come through that space. I’d say most Black students at the University of Florida just found a way to navigate the environment and respond to whatever issues they might confront.

But the students who did come through the IBC, it wasn’t like everyone who came through immediately got a history lesson. We did often include elements of that in a tour, but I would say that students weren’t generally plugged in or connected to sort of, what was happening at the University of Florida with sort of the national movement to create these spaces and I would also say that that movement has evolved over time. I work currently at Sacramento State University as the director of the Institute or director of the centers for diversity and inclusion and in my previous role in the CSU system, I was the coordinator of the African American center for academic excellence at Humboldt State University which is also in the California state university system. And on occasion there would be fishing rod meeting that bring together people who do this work from different campuses. And I was at a meeting about three years ago where they brought together all the folks who were doing the African American student





related work, and there were a lot of folks who were at that meeting, who had been in the trenches so to speak for twenty plus years, but they were still arguing for access. They were committed to access because it feels like students are not even getting the opportunity to attend these institutions that they pay taxes to fund. But for many of us who are I’d say newer to the field, we were saying access doesn’t matter if they’re confronted with an unwelcoming campus climate and there are significant disparities in the degree of payment outcomes. Because if you are recruiting students, but you’re not changing the campus culture, you’re end result is that you’re bringing students in who then get saddled with student loan debt and then graduate without the credential that enable them to actually earn the money to pay that loan back. So we were not on the access thing but I think that that’s what we’ve been seeing happening or we were still on the access thing or there were a number of influential senior leaders who were thinking about access while many of us were saying that we need to change the culture of the institution. Change the campus climates. And that is how I think that conversation or that movement has evolved over time. So it’s no longer about access, it’s really about climate.

	B:	So is that some work that you’re doing now at San Francisco or is it Sacramento?

	J:	Sacramento. Yeah. Sacramento State. Yeah, we’re trying to do sort of what I described earlier is really work with our– we have a chief diversity officer and we have an office of equity, diversity and inclusion and then we have other units on campus and we really are trying to build a web of support that is responding to





the entire campus community. We’re working with our partners in the California faculty association. We’re working with student organizations. Really trying to communicate this narrative around how it’s all of us, all of us have a responsibility to provide and promote equity, diversity, and inclusion. And some of us are just fully immersed in it like it’s our full time jobs but that doesn’t mean that other people don’t have a responsibility.

	B:	And I was wondering during the time that you were here were they speaking about transitioning into the Reitz Union space. I’m not sure after or...

	J:	Yes. That was a large scale conversation that I remember happening and it, and again it felt like there wasn’t a clear vision. ‘Cause they were talking about creating the new space in the Union which we thought was actually good but it also sounded like they were trying to move us to a cross cultural center or multicultural center model. Where they were saying it’s gonna be one center basically with sort of little designated community specific areas, but then we were like “But no one wants to get rid of the institutes either” and they were like “right” and they were like “right”. So then we were stuck with this question of well then how are we supposed to manage both spaces? Is there a strategy for how that’s gonna work? And then if we’re managing multiple spaces, how does that work for the other two–so let me back up, so I was the director of the Institute of Black Culture, I told you there was a director of the other institutes and there was a director, the titles were directors, of Asian Pacific American– Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs, LGBTQ affairs, and they managed what was called like a resource room. So there were like these individual converted offices in an





administration building that served as like a lounge or a resource room for student populations that were served by those areas, but it was essentially, there was an office where the staff person was and then there was a resource room and then there was another area where student assistants could work for those smaller units. The Reitz Union space was going to replace those spaces in the administration building and everybody was– like LGBT affairs was gonna move over there, Asian Pacific Islander American Affairs was gonna move over to the student union and they would get nicer more modern better space for their center. What did that mean for the two institutes though? So if the two institutes are going to be retained, which is what I was told was going to happen, there was going to be new space in the union. So then we were like okay so then is my office going to stay in the IBC or is going to move over to the union? Am I gonna become an executive director and there’s gonna be a coordinator or there gonna be a coordinator that reports to me that’s gonna be over in the Reitz union, am I gonna be in the IBC? Like what is this gonna look like? Or is it that I’m supposed to run two spaces and my colleagues who have the same title as me are just running their space, but we’re all getting paid basically the same amount of money. Right. So it just didn’t seem like they had a clear plan for how things supposed to work, like, administratively and professionally because it just was disorganized.

	B:	And so I guess what prompted you to leave this position for another position?



	J:	What prompted me to want to leave was the poor leadership. The leadership in MCDA and within the division was quite frankly, not just stifling but offensive. It





felt at times like the interest of the students were not sort of placed central to what decisions were being made. It felt at times like we were a good commercial, we were good for the image of the university but that was sort of the main value that we contributed and there really was no effort or interest in us actually doing any significant change. I see, I see even now in other institutions, and my own as well, a large amount of deficit thinking around traditionally underrepresented students and it infuriates me when I see that kind of stuff happening. And I felt like that was part of what was operating at University of Florida at the time as well. It just, it just really didn’t feel like the kind of space that was healthy for me both personally and professionally. I knew there was unfinished work that needed to be done, like I certainly didn’t plan on being there for just a year, but when I had the opportunity to leave, I left.

	B:	And did you have any concerns or any confidence in terms of what was gonna happen going forward?

	J:	I really felt like--so if I’m being totally candid, there was a point during—I remember a meeting where all of us, and when I say all of us, so again I had- my working title was the director of the institute of Black culture, my official title was the assistant director of multicultural and diversity affairs. So all of us who were running a particular area, our titles were assistant director of multicultural and diversity affairs and then we had a specific center assignment. Now, I interpret that to mean that I am part of the leadership team for MCDA, so when we’re doing campus-wide initiative or programs or things that are coming out of the unit as a whole then my voice is being brought to the table, they’re interested in what





I have to say, and I’m also contributing time and energy etc. etc. But my primary responsibility is to run the institute of Black culture and that wasn’t always clear about how our time was supposed to be distributed. Was it ninety-ten? Was it eighty-twenty? Was it whatever the director defines it needs at that time? And also whether or not I was actually part of—like whether or not my voice even mattered. Right. When we were having these conversations. So, it felt like MCDA—there was a meeting when all of the assistant directors were totally just ignoring the director. We were like “We don’t listen to you anymore”. Like we would rather you not even be in this meeting and we feel like without you MCDA is going to be better than with you. Like, because there was no vision, because there was no leadership. There was no capacity there. I always say that if you lead with authority like with status and with power, you essentially are being a bully. But if you lead with service, if you lead with support—in my roll right now, I try to do, as the director, the people who are my direct rapports, I always am saying, what do you need from me for you to be successful. Like that’s all I want. I want them to be successful and I view their success as my success or our success. It didn’t seem that way when I was there and it just didn’t seem like the model was going to work and it was destined to fail. So when I left, I think I was just like, I just knew I was first.

	B:	Did you all have any questions? [Pause] Okay. Is there anything else that you would like to talk about? I don’t want to keep you too long, I know it’s almost an hour but did you have anything—I don’t have any more questions at this time but





I was wondering if you had anything that we didn’t discuss that you would like to talk about.

	J:	Well I’d be interested in your experience? I was there for a year and then things changed but while you were there and both while I was there and after, like what?

	B:	Okay. [Laughter] So I stayed—I didn’t know about the political dynamics of MCDA at all. I was always taught like you don’t ask your bosses questions. So I know there’s some like turnover and things but I didn’t ask about that so as an ambassador, my experience was good. I learned a lot and no issues there. When I came back to UF in 2015 for grad school, I—my second year back I decided to apply for MCDA and so I was graduate assistant for Black affairs with Misty Bird and that’s where I saw the political dynamics go on. So a lot of the things that were mentioned in the interview, I also have seen that type of experience you know like not a lot of transparency, they don’t include you into planning processes, they’ll have some graduate students who are able to, some that don’t. I’ve seen, you know, like White privilege type of things happen where certain GA’s or administrators can do certain things but then someone of color gets cut. Just that type of thing. What else happened? The doors and lock transparency about the institutes and so they had certain people on the commission, I guess the board, and we were told—our director told us hey this is what’s going on but a lot of the students when they found out that they were trying to combine the buildings were not very—like some of them were not caring to keep them separate. A lot of the students were new. Just a lot of different transition





happening with the university. So I feel like the passion that a lot of other people who were prior had wasn’t really there with student support. I don’t know what else to say. They fired me. [Laughter] Yeah they fired me. They made up this thing and they said that—so you know how GA’s have like a position where your person, your director reviews your work. So that’s a typical process and they pushed out a lot of people and by the time that my director was about to be pushed out, she found a position and so she went somewhere else but I was left there. There was no director and they were just like well we need to evaluate your work which was in March, but I had been asking about what this process would be like way before and they were like oh we’ll let you know later and then they did some interviews without telling me and all this kind of stuff and then they rehired some of the graduate assistants that were already there but that students had complained about that didn’t feel like were supportive of them or doing their job. All these kind of things were happening and then they decided to finally tell me—something happened one afternoon and I wasn’t in the office because I wasn’t in at that time and they were like we gave you a phone call, you didn’t respond to the phone call, so we reached out to other applicants and so they sent me an email saying oh we called you on this afternoon, then the next office day was like a Monday and they just were like oh well you never respond so we just moved on to another candidate and they didn’t even have a candidate because one of my peers in my program, he’s also, well he’s in Greek life and the current director is in Greek life so they just offered him a position and the student didn’t even know about Black affairs, what we do there or anything and





so he was just like oh I think I’m working with you next year, I’m gonna go interview, can you tell me about this position, I’m like well I don’t work there anymore they actually told me they filled it. So they hadn’t even filled the position and all these kind of things and I think it was because of being vocal about—so we had an IBC closing ceremony and the IBC closing ceremony—because I had been doing research about higher education and the closing down of cultural centers and this was a thing that was coming up before they decided to combine and all this stuff, so I had put in the closing ceremony, hey this is something we have to look out for because [inaudible 3:49] they’re demolishing it or taking the name away and just branding it as multiculturalism and some administration was in the room and just things started to be sketchy after that and then the director that I was under transitioned positions so all this kind of stuff happened and when I asked how am I gonna be evaluated for this position, if I were to get it, before I found out that they were already trying to replace me. I was told that the new executive director would be in charge of giving me an evaluation and I’m like that doesn’t make sense because this person I have not worked with. All this kind of stuff and long story short, they just were like no we can’t use referrals from other people and I’m like, this is my boss, she can tell you exactly—she can email this to you and then they were like no. So I refused to sign any paperwork because I didn’t want them to like, say that I did X, Y and Z. So they gave me some deadlines to turn it in, I didn’t turn it in but before the deadline had approached they already let me go and they were doing director searches and they told me like to stay home. They told me not to come in. They were like you can work





remotely. All this kind of stuff because they didn’t want me involved in the process.

	J:	Yeah.



	B:	So, retrospectively, I wish I would’ve attended but at the time I had just lost like any hope in the institution because the directors and the different things, they were putting in new people. It was just very staged, I felt like they had already picked who they had wanted to and talking to other graduate assistants, they had told me stories about previous directors that had been put in that different position within MCDA that were not requested by the students. So all these kind of things let me out and now I’m a graduate assistant with Samuel Proctor Oral History Program and with the African American Studies program so I’ve been able to do the type of work that I was interested in doing originally so.. [Laughter]

	J:	Yeah.



	B:	Yeah.



	J:	That sounds consistent.



	B:	Yeah. So. Do you have any other questions for us?



J:  Well, what is supposed to happen next? You said that – I know there’s the Samuel Proctor Program but what’s going on with the IBC and with the IHLC.

B:  So, they’re saying I think next fall they should have a building ready. They had a groundbreaking this semester. This fall. But we—I didn’t get to attend but a lot of students who had mentioned it felt that it was very like hey we have shovels like





very much like a show type of thing so a lot of the activists students who participated in the summer weren’t really pleased and they even had alligator articles where it seems like they’re erasing the student movement that happened in the summer time. They just said they were gonna have something up by fall but I’ve heard just different stories. I haven’t been involved but they have something online apparently where you can see the meetings recorded so we haven’t looked at those but if you go on MCDA’s website it should be up there so you can see how the meetings are but it’s going to be two buildings now. Some students mentioned that the IBC, they don’t feel like they’re taking a lot of the suggestions from the students but for the la casita they are so I’m not sure cause I’m not involved in the process but it’s just different things I was hearing from other students. Yeah.

	J:	Alright. Well hang in there. B:	Yeah.

	J:	I know it’s hard.



	B:	Mm-hm.



	J:	But alright. I’m out here if you need anything. B:	Okay. Thank you for your time.

	J:	Okay. You’re welcome. My pleasure. B:	Okay have a good day.

[End of interview]













Transcribed by:

Ashley Brickhouse



Audit-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

February 13, 2020

Final-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

February 11, 2021