AAHP 449; Gilbert III; Page 10

Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb



Samuel Proctor Oral History Program

College of Liberal Arts and Sciences



Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


The image part with relationship ID rId7 was not found in the file.




241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu





The image part with relationship ID rId1 was not found in the file.



AAHP 449 Walter L Gilbert III African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Vickie Oldham on November 16, 2015 44 minutes | 24 pages



Abstract: Mr. Walter Gilbert reflects on moving away to Pittsburg and coming back to Newtown, Florida when he was eight. He contrasts integrated society in Pittsburg and urban landscape to Newtown’s segregated schools and dirt roads. He speaks a lot about his activism like encouraging the Black football players to refuse to play football unless Black cheerleaders were allowed. He discusses his involvement with the NAACP and running for local office in order to bring changes and more representation of Blacks in the government. He helped change the voting to a single member district voting that allowed more Black folk in positions of power. He moved away to go to airline school and worked for Delta in Chicago, but moved back to Newtown. He immediately got back involved with community activism and he shares the importance of fighting and agitating until progress is made. Mr. Gilbert also speaks about his mentors who really shaped his passion and drive to help spark change in his community.



Keywords: [Newtown, Florida; African American History; Desegregation; Great Migration; Community activism]



Standards:

	SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws

	SS.912.A.5.7 National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP)

	SS.912.A.7.5 Social activism























For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 449 (Newtown Oral History Project) Interviewee: Walter L Gilbert III Interviewer: Vickie Oldham

	Date: November 16, 2015 O:	Give me your name. G:	Walter L Gilbert III.

	O:	Mr. Gilbert, Walter thank you for agreeing to do this. Where were you raised?



What is your address where you were raised?



	G:	Well we started off in Reed Court over in the Old Projects, Apartment 43. O:	Old Projects off of?

	G:	Right off Orange Ave.



	O:	Orange Ave. Apartment 43?



	G:	Apartment 43. Big oak tree right in the front and from there my parents moved on up and bought a house over on Links Ave.

	O:	Okay let’s talk about your parents. Who are they?



	G:	Walter Gilbert Jr. and Ruth Gilbert, Ruth Barron Gilbert.



	O:	Were they already here in Sarasota or did they move from someplace else? G:	My grandparents came here in 1915.

	O:	From where?



	G:	From my mother’s side Carlton, Georgia. O:	Why did they come?

	G:	They had a little problem with the local people. O:	What do you mean?

	G:	My grandmother’s parents were sharecroppers there and this is the story that was passed down. They took their crop in and the guy at the facility where you turn your crop in didn’t give my grandmother’s mother what she was supposed to





get for the crop and my grandmother’s husband went to get what he was supposed to get and there was a misunderstanding and he had to go. So they came to Florida.

	O:	They came to Florida and settled— G:	That was on my mother’s side.

	O:	Okay and settled in Sarasota. Any reason why Sarasota?



	G:	I think they came to Bradenton first. I think the Black community in Bradenton was larger at that time and this was just a movement from there to here.

	O:	What kind of work did they do in Bradenton and then subsequently Sarasota? G:	Well on my father’s side, who came from Valdosta, Georgia who came to

Bradenton also, then to Sarasota. Of course it was agricultural type work and my grandfather ended up being a foreman out in Palmer Farms in charge of the canal digging to irrigate the fields, the celery fields. So that was agricultural to start with.

	O:	Now he came from Valdosta. Now why did he come to Sarasota? G:	I never got that story.

	O:	Okay.



	G:	I never got that story.



	O:	What are your earliest recollections of this Newtown community because I’m taking it that this was your hometown?

	G:	I was born here yes. I was born here and my parents left and moved to Pittsburgh. They stayed in Pittsburgh ‘til I was eight and moved back. So my earliest recollection was– keep going? Arriving here from Pittsburgh and seeing





all these dirt roads. I was like, “Where are we? What planet are we on?” and kids walking around with no shoes on and running around, no shirts and stuff like that. I was like, “Whoa.”

O:   How was it different from Pittsburgh?



	G:	Pittsburgh was a city. You didn’t see any dirt streets there. Everybody had sidewalks. All the buildings were brick. There was no wooden buildings especially houses.

	O:	And kids weren’t running around with no shoes on?



	G:	No, and schools were integrated. One of the first things—and my mom told me ‘cause I don’t remember this—she said when I came home from school after the first day, I asked her, “Where was the other kids?” I didn’t even know to say White kids, but I knew there were some kids that weren’t there so that was a transition back to getting used to that which I did get used to that and later, I had to transition again when schools got integrated here. So I went the whole full circle on that.

	O:	What grade were you? Do you remember? G:	When we integrated?

	O:	No—



	G:	When I came here? O:	Yeah.

	G:	Third grade.



	O:	Third grade. So now, what school did you go to in third?— G:	Booker.





	O:	Booker?



	G:	Yeah. Booker Elementary. O:	Who were your teachers?

	G:	Mr. Clarke, Ms. D. L. Anderson, Ovell Stevens, Ovan Stevens was the principal.



Ms. Tucker, there were some great teachers too, really great people.



	O:	And just talk about in general, your experiences at Booker Elementary School.



	G:	It was a very nurturing experience. First you know, everybody tells the story about the teacher that lives right next door down the street or you come home, they literally sitting in your house. That is true. Your parents personally knew these people because they lived all within the same community. So these people really cared about you. They knew your parents. They cared about how you acted, what you learned and how well you learned, so that went a long way with a lot of kids in furthering their educational values.

	O:	So then fast forward to your other education and schooling. From elementary school to what school?

	G:	From elementary we went to Booker High. Same atmosphere, tight-knit community. Definitely all Black, and then in my tenth grade year the court ruling came down that we was gonna no longer have segregated schools. Drew the line down 27th Street. You lived on the south side of 27th Street, you went to Sarasota High. If you lived on the north side you went to Riverview and that just separated a lot of lifelong friends just like that.





	O:	In an instant. Before we go to those experiences of integrating the schools, these community leaders that you met and that you saw, you were telling me a story about travelling with your parents to meetings.

	G:	Yes and that’s how I got involved in civic organizations and my interest in civic work all together. My mother was a big social person. She loved being social. She was a member of all these different community clubs. Like she was the Vice Chairman of the Charmets Club, which was a little Black social women’s club.

	O:	What did they do?



	G:	They did community work. Most of the time they got together and had little parties and stuff but they gave out scholarships to girls. They did service work, people that needed help, poor people. Everybody was poor back then but poorer people, things of that nature and they did really, really good work. A lot of people can thank the Charmets for a lot of help during Christmastime. Bought kids Easter dresses and stuff like that.

	O:	Were these the people who had a little bit more money than the others?



	G:	Maybe a little bit but you know, back then looking at it, it seemed that they was just regular people that decided to come together and do this service. They weren’t no extraordinary people. See back in that day the professionals in our community was the teacher, the minister, and the undertaker. After that, everybody else was service work of some type and it wasn’t ‘cause nobody else couldn’t but that was just the way of Jim Crow back then.

	O:	You were telling me about what it was like to travel with your mom to these meetings as kids. Now who all would she take along?





	G:	Me and my sister. We had just my sister and I, and we would go to all these meetings with her and the biggest meetings we would go to would be these community meetings when they was talking about how to better the community. Sometimes it was church organizations who was leading the way. Mostly it was NAACP at the time that was leading the way and that’s how I got interested in the branch.

	O:	So tell me those stories about going in there and seeing these people.



	G:	The people there when you got there, you knew them all. You know, they was your mother’s and father’s friends and people you see in the community on a daily basis but, as you went through your life on a daily basis, you didn’t really know the depth of these people; how much they knew and how committed they were to changing things and making things happen for the better of the community. That was just Mr. John, the yard man or that was Cheapo the roofer guy or the other guy you knew down the street that was the garbage man but when they came to these meetings, they changed. They turned into these super people like, you know they were talking about making things happen and how to do it and how we was gonna go about it as a group and how we need to form these different committees and stuff and I’m just sitting there looking like, “Wow.” And the one guy that really, really made me want to be more involved was a guy named Neil Humphrey, Mr. Neil Humphrey, excuse me Mr. Humphrey.

	O:	Rest in peace Mr. Humphrey.



	G:	Yes, yes. Heaven forbid I call you without saying “Mr.” He owned the drugstore. That was the name of the store and by “drugstore” back that days it was like a





little sundry store that sold some of everything. Medicines off the shelf, things of that nature. Not a pharmacy-type drugstore but—

	O:	Over-the-counter.



	G:	Yes so, and he had the only business like that in our community and you know that was his thing. Mr. Humphrey was probably 5’5”. Might have weighed a hundred twenty pounds, really soft spoken guy even when somebody was acting up in there. If he raised his voice you couldn’t hardly hear him. He was a little meek, little man but in these NAACP meetings he was fire and brimstone. He was telling us how we was gonna go down there, what we was supposed to say, how we was gonna act, he wasn’t having no troubles and I’m looking at all these other people and they was like, “Right, yes sir Mr. Humphrey.” His persona changed right in my face so I’m like, “I can do that. I want to be like this guy.” Not only business-wise but I want to be a leader like him. He was a leader and he was a leader that led. He wasn’t just saying, “I’m the leader.” He led and he had the most to lose if you want to talk about if they came and did something in the community or tried to retaliate. They could do stuff to his store and anything you know?

	O:	I wonder how he learned that. Did he bring it with him? Because he said he came from the Lakeland area. I don’t know how he learned that.

	G:	It’s like, you see this in other leaders too. They got it from somebody else.



Somebody else they saw made them like that and they knew that was something they had to carry on or got that feeling within here that you know, it moves you.

	O:	You got to do something. You can’t just sit there.





	G:	Yeah, yeah you know.



	O:	Well talk about now– so then you went around to these meetings. You saw him and others leading and regular craftsmen becoming different personalities. So you’re like growing in stature I guess and then in your mind you’re growing. Take us through your evolution.

	G:	Well my first branching out step as far as trying to do something in leadership thing was at Sarasota High. My father always told me, “If you gonna be upfront, be upfront. You gonna be in the back, don’t even go.” That was the way he told me stuff so we was at Sarasota High and we didn’t feel that we were getting treated properly in the lunch room and we were sitting at—I’ll never forget this day—we sitting there and everybody’s talking about it. I say, “Well let’s just get up and we not gonna eat lunch in here no more,” and everybody said, “Okay.” So I’m standing there like, “Okay, let’s go.” So everybody just came and we struck the lunchroom about a week and a half before they decided to bring us in, talk to us and they actually appointed Fred Atkins and I to the Student Council.

	O:	What was wrong with what was going in the lunchroom that you didn’t like?



	G:	Well first of all, they wasn’t treating us like– first they didn’t want us there number one. So the people that was the lunch room servers was treating us bad.

	O:	Really? You mean the White staff. This was during your first week or so and— G:	No. Our first yeah it had went on for a while.

	O:	Oh okay.



	G:	You know we kept talking about it months except– and that day when I said that and the other thing was, we didn’t have any Black cheerleaders. Most of the





football team was Black so we had a whole bunch of grievances and so we said we wasn’t doing nothing out there no more. We got the kids on the football team, which I was a member of at that time, we said we wasn’t gonna play no more.

	O:	Wow so what the Missouri team did was nothing new.



	G:	Nothing new, nothing new. So they gave us two cheerleaders. They changed the process of us going into the lunchroom and how to go in there.

	O:	So give us the steps as to– it took about a week or two of boycotting games and then, suddenly there was a meeting and you know.

	G:	In fact we had the meetings, the meetings for us to talk about this and do it, we did it at my mom’s house. She was encouraging us. In fact, while we was striking she would bring us lunch to the school because we wouldn’t even go in the lunchroom. Yeah things like that and so that was my first action.

	O:	Wow, that’s exciting. How were you feeling? Afraid or empowered or what?



	G:	Empowered. We wasn’t afraid. We was never afraid because we never thought we had nothing to lose especially at that age you know? So what? We’re not going in the lunch room.

	O:	You were in tenth grade? G:	Yes.

	O:	Oh okay. Who were the emerging leaders that you saw around you besides you? G:	Well Fred of course. Fred and I did a lot of stuff together. Lionel Stix and Joel,

who’s passed now. Ernie Duval, he was one.



	O:	This activism moved on into activism in the community but I want to find out what happened, where’d you go after you graduated from Sarasota?





	G:	From high school all I ever wanted to do really was be a football player but when I graduated high school I weighed probably a hundred forty-five pounds, 5’9” so it wasn’t gonna happen. So, I went out to Kansas and went to Weaver Airline School which is an airline personnel school. They do personnel training for all the other stuff that happens in the airlines. So I got hired by Delta Airlines and they gave me a choice. They said, “Well you can go to Colorado, Denver or you can go to Chicago, Illinois.” So I’m thinking, “I know a little geography: Denver, mountains, snow unh-huh. Chicago, okay.” Chicago was twice as cold as Denver. So after four years there working for Delta Airlines I was a station agent for them.

	O:	In Denver?



	G:	In Chicago.



	O:	Oh okay.



	G:	In Chicago and I woke up one day on May 9, snow flurries. I said, “It’s enough of this, I can go home.” So I came home. I got a job with at the time it was a telephone company was GTE and I was working for them and of course being home again, now you’re around what you left and what you know and I had learned and saw some stuff in Chicago. I’ve gone to Jessie Jackson Church probably seven to eight times. Hung out with some guys that was in the Black Stone Rangers and if you don’t know who the Black Stone Rangers are, they make the Panthers look like a ballet class. I saw what a Black community really is because over on some of the south side of Chicago, you can go there and you’ll never see a White person doing nothing. Doing no businesses, all those was





Black. All the policemen there were Black. All the emergency people– everything down in that area, it’s Black and I saw that and I saw it work and I saw it flourish you know? I got to hang out with some professional football and basketball players, so I saw some things that I would never seen here and after coming back here, it’s that old saying like, “You can take– once they’ve been to Paris” or how’s that thing go? “You can’t put them back on the farm or something like that?” It was pretty much like that with me so, I immediately got back involved into the—

	O:	Community activism.



	G:	Community yes and at that time, my mentors were two and I call them fire and ice. Ed James and John Rivers, those were my mentors along with Mr. Dupree and between the two of those guys, I learned a whole lot. I learned how to do what both of them do separately and try to bring it together so—

	O:	Wow and then what did that lead you to?



	G:	Well, the first thing I thought about was, there’s no elected Black officials here so I ran for City Commissioner just on a whim and my campaign manager was Mr. Dupree. My first campaign out and we knew what we were up against and we knew I probably wasn’t gonna win, but it was to bring awareness more than to win. So the first time I went through the motions and did what we could do and of course we lost. Then, John and Ed came and said to me, “You gonna run again?” I said, “I just got wiped out. I’m not doing this over. I’m gonna try something else.” Says “No, no—“

	O:	And raising the money too is big.





	G:	Of course, of course. He said, “We got a plan. We need you to run again.” So I ran again and I lost again. Now, what I didn’t know what their plan actually was, was we need to prove legally that a Black person couldn’t win an election in the city of Sarasota at large. It’s just a numbers game because no matter how strong a candidate you became, they always had numbers. They could always go get votes and outvote you. So, what they said we needed to do is have single member district voting. So they said, “We need you to run again because we’re gonna sue the city.” Federal Court and that’s what happened. So that was the reason we ended up with single member district voting and end up getting some Black people elected in the City Commission.

	O:	Wow that is– I’m so thankful, I’m so thankful. How did that make you feel when you understood what your actions were leading to? You’ve changed this community just by those actions.

	G:	Yeah it made me feel good. There was other people that ran before me that suffered the same thing and you know all that was built into the case. There was like four or five other people that ran before me that happened to too but that was just more fuel for the fire to prove the case and at the time that the case was filed I had went on to become the President of the NAACP and we was gonna file it as the branch but we didn’t want to file it as the branch because we didn’t want it to look like it was the branch doing it. We wanted it to look like ordinary citizens was doing this. That’s why, me as president at the time, my name couldn’t be on the suit. So I think Sheila, Ed, John, there was a fourth person I forget who it was, their name was on the suit that actually went into the courtroom.





	O:	How long did it take to get this done? G:	About two years.

	O:	Two years, and what was the NAACP doing during this time that the lawsuit was?—

	G:	Well there were other things and I’ve seen those things come and bear fruit now that we were talking about back then. I said single district voting and that happened, police review board, this building we sitting in right now? We talked about having a library in north county for Newtown. Those were the things we were talking about back then that you had to keep talking about. You had to keep pushing it and all those things will come to pass so I’m happy to see that.

	O:	It has taken though [Interruption]. My next question would be, why does it take so long to get things done? I know we’re not on but I wanted to let him know. It took ten years to get them to do this project right here that we’re doing and I’m sure people would’ve been struggling. Mr. Neil Humphrey and them wanted these things to happen and it just took so long and some things they didn’t see—

	G:	Like the beach thing. I got an article here that you can read from when Mr. Neil was president about the beach.

	O:	Integration of beaches, yes. [Interruption] Yeah sure, absolutely Casey. Do you want to take this whole thing in?

	G:	No.



	O:	Oh you got out what you wanted okay thank you. Alrighty here we go. Okay. Boy this is good conversation.

	G:	Yeah.





	O:	Really good. So, Walter it seems to take a very long time to get certain accommodations and amenities for the Black community that are normal for others. Why does it take so long?

	G:	Well if you look back in the history and you have to always look at the history, and that will tell you why things are the way they are and the things you need to do to change it too. The history has been, we don’t get nothing. We’re not just gonna come out here and give you anything and that’s just the history. So the history tells you that you have to—and Mr. Rivers and Ed taught me this—you have to agitate. You have to fight. You have to keep on doing it. They’re not gonna give you anything. Then on top of that we had no power. We had no elected officials. We barely voted. Those are the things they understand. That’s the way this system works and you can stand on our side and scream and yell all you want but you gotta be on the inside of these things to make the changes that you really want. And you keep agitating. I remember Ed told me one time, he said, “When you go to some of these meetings, if you’re not getting what you want, you shut down the meeting.”

	O:	What does that mean?



	G:	You make noise, you talk loud, you scream, you bam. You don’t listen to the moderator. If it’s not doing what you want to happen, shut it down. Make them hear you. Make them listen and John would say, “You agitate. Agitate; you just keep agitating.” It’s like the mosquito. You just keep going. Just constantly do that. You just don’t go away. That mosquito keeps coming back. Sooner or later





you get some attention paid to you. So, it’s just the way of it. That’s the way it’s always been.

	O:	That’s the way it’s always been and that’s how it’s gonna have to be to—



	G:	And that’s how it’s gonna be. Now the key to it is, we have to have people in positions and I don’t want to sound negative, but you have to have people in positions willing to do that. You don’t see too many people now. It’s nice to get along and be friendly and nice but that’s that old mentality, that old plantation mentality. “As long as I got this, I’m okay. Everybody else got a need to get their own. I got me.” So I think some of our leaders and I’m not—

	O:	Gotta agitate more.



	G:	They gotta step it up. They gotta know that it ain’t all okay yet. You know what I’m saying? We still gotta do some stuff. We still gotta agitate, still gotta make some noise. Still gotta make them mad at you. You can’t have them happy at you all the time.

	O:	What do we need still? What does the community of Newtown need?



	G:	We need jobs. We need a community on the whole that’s willing to be more inclusive of us. We can’t just say, “We got the library, okay.” Or, “We got a new gym over here and that’s okay.” We need to have a community that’s included. You have to start with the government because people follow government’s ways that’s willing to bring people in and give them jobs and give them opportunities, make things readily openly available, make them feel welcome into the community and keep our community thriving.

	O:	And as the years go by, the needs just continue and sometimes they change.





	G:	Yes.



	O:	But it doesn’t stop with just a new gym or a new library or whatever.



	G:	No, no and then you gotta put people in those facilities that’s willing to make use of them to the good of the community. Sometimes these facilities are here and they’re not getting used what I’ve seen, to the maximum ability of the use that it could be done. So you have to have people in place that’s willing to work it. Make it as big as it can be. Just don’t come turn on the lights and go sit down and see who comes in the door. Have programs, initiate things that’s gonna bring the people here and encourage these young kids to do stuff. So we got a gym? Okay I’m gonna open the door and if anybody comes in here, okay. No.

	O:	What about training young leaders and community organizers and activists like you looked and saw this in Neil Humphrey and John?

	G:	Yeah and that’s a challenge for the leaders that we have right now. They’re not doing that. I mean, I’ve got something that I do in my own way but there’s some other things that needs to be done that other people could step up and do, I think better.

O:  So let’s explore some of those ideas. Maybe, past leaders and present leaders can get together and have a retreat and really hammer out a strategy to pull in and train new leaders because that training that you received from John Rivers and Ed James, it’s gotta be shared and there are people who would eat it up.

	G:	And we tend to sometimes, and to a fault, become selfish individuals and what you’re saying is something that really needs to be done; have that bridge brought together where people in certain other segments of the community that we





actually come together and figure this thing out because it’s really getting desperate out here. I worked with kids through my football program and kids– they’re not the kids that I was working with ten, twenty, thirty years ago.

	O:	Right, who are these kids that you’re working with now?



	G:	They’re kids of– in my program I work with Sarasota Redskins and got a post- season thing I do to help the youth. It’s called “Football University” and the kids nowadays are– it’s almost like a loss, their parents was that “lost generation” I call them. They’re old enough to have kids but they still want to go out and have fun so they’re not putting their kids first like our parents did. They’re putting their fun first and put kids on the back burner.

	O:	Second.



	G:	Yeah so a lot of them are missing stuff. So we’re trying to help them through what we do like that. That’s what we’re dealing with now and that’s why the leaders really need to step up and try to figure out some other things to do to try to save more of those people.

	O:	And groom them to come on up.



	G:	Because they’re out there. You’d be surprised. You’d be surprised they’re there because they show up. I see them every day but, when they go away from us, they go back to that negative and it’s hard.

	O:	What about– you came back. Thank God you came back and look at what you did. What about others who have gone away and have no thought of coming back to Sarasota? We need that talent. We need homegrown talent because they have at stake in the community.





	G:	Yeah and they understand the community. They lived here and they understand and they know what it was and what it probably could be.

	O:	How do we get them back?



	G:	You know what? They’re slowly trickling back. I’m on Facebook and all this new stuff. I try to keep up with it and every now and then you’ll see that guy who’s like “Hey how’s home? Thinking about coming back.” I posted something up on this site. If you– what’s the Newtown site?

	O:	If you grew up in—



	G:	Yeah and you’d be surprised at the people that respond and ask questions. Ben Green up in Nashville, he responded to something. He said he was thinking about moving back and he’s a professional.

	O:	I think you’re on to something. So we can throw out bites and show that it’s an attractive place but still that work needs to be done.

	G:	And you know what most people like to hear? “I need you. You could do this. You could help me with this.” People love to hear that. They make that happen and sometimes when you do that, you’re surprised at the people that respond.

	O:	Right. So let’s continue to do that then Walter and I’m gonna certainly do my part with putting my tidbits on social media.

	G:	You’re doing a good job. You’ve started something and anything I can do to help you out I’ll be happy to.

	O:	Yeah I wanna remind– I think this project reminds our residents and our people of who we are.

	G:	Yeah.





	O:	And we have a proud tradition that we’ve got to just keep building on.



	G:	We’ve come this far not to let it fall off. It’s like walking up to the cliff and you can see that terrible fall. Now what you gonna do to keep it from happening? That’s kind of where we are. We could see that terrible fall. We could see us turning into something like what’s going on in Chicago and Baltimore and places like that. We can see that. But the best part about it, we see it and we got an opportunity to do something different. So it’s up to us.

	O:	And these drastic measures, we gotta find out what other cities are doing perhaps to stem it and put it in operation but do we have to come together. What do you think about our community as far as unity?

	G:	We’re not where we were twenty years ago. We’re not where we were thirty years ago as far as that. I hate to point figures but there’s organizations here that could take a more positive leadership role into making things better that for some reason is not happening. I would love to see a minister step up and become that guy because they live off the community for a better choice of words. So they have less to lose than anybody else that’s working somewhere and I know how it was because—

	O:	They have the attention, too, of an audience.



	G:	I know how it is. When I was president of the NAACP, I was working for GTE and they threatened to fire me every time my name hit the paper you know? You got people that’s got their own businesses; morticians, guys like that. Those are the people that needs to step out and talk a little louder because they can. I understand when a person’s making a living and got a family to feed. They’re a





little more reluctant and that’s the way of the world but, I would love to see these ministers really make something happen. Our current branch president make something a little more happening. Stand out and take that leadership role that branch should have. Step up and say, “I want to have a summit. I’m gonna invite this minister from that denomination and we gonna come together.” Some other people in other organizations. There’s fraternities here that’s got great guys as leaders that can be involved. There’s this thing going over in Manatee County between the branch over there and the Sheriff’s Department called “Bridging the Gap” that they’re doing over there. We could do the same thing over here in Sarasota County. Somebody’s got to be “that guy.”

	O:	What are your greatest NAACP accomplishments, community accomplishments whatever you’d like to talk about and then I’ll ask you another question about your greatest influences and people that you want to recognize.

	G:	I think the biggest thing definitely was, to give you a single memory, district voting, done. One of the other things we talked about for a long time was a police review board; independent police review board. That finally happened. We talked about that for years. One of the big things we were doing back then was, we went to all the major employers around here. Things like banks and governments and other big businesses and we did what we call a “Minority Employment Program.” We helped them get to people because first thing, they wanna say, “Well nobody never comes to apply.” That’s the first thing they always say and we sent people to all these places to apply. So we got people involved in the work force that way and those are the things that you do as a branch. You don’t





sit around and wait for something to become a problem to then start talking about it. You just agitate. Go start something. Go start something. Just go start something that’s the things we did, and we got to do that now. Things are better, but they ain’t great. There’s some stuff we can go start.

	O:	I bet.



	G:	Yeah.



	O:	Well tell me about some others of your influences and people that you feel like need to be acknowledged in this community.

	G:	There was the teachers back in the day when I was coming to school I think don’t get a lot– I’ve seen you interview Mrs. Smith. She was my sixth grade teacher.

Mr. Park. Deanne Anderson, she’s passed now. All those people, Mr. White who’s passed now. Of course Mr. Rogers, Mr. Dupree. Those people probably saved hundreds of children’s lives just being themselves. Just being that person that went out and made sure you was in class, made sure you had a lunch that day, came to your house, told your momma on you when you was acting up that day. Those people, they get a whole lot of credit and hold the community together. Of course Mr. Rivers and Ed James. Mr. Rivers was a lion. I mean a lion of a man and very seldom raised his voice, very seldom. He would walk in the room and immediately be respected by those people because the way he carried himself. He never disrespected them but he would not allow you to disrespect him and he taught me that. Ed on the other hand, he’d come in the room and tear it up. He come here to just tear it up.





	O:	These styles. So what style are you between these two? You talked about it earlier.

	G:	Yeah between the two, sometimes I would just sit there with my mouth open and go, “Stop please. Can’t believe he’s doing this.” And then it would be Mr. Rivers’ turn and he would smooth the water right after Ed just turned it up, Mr. Rivers come right behind him and smoothed it. We walked out of there with whatever we was asking for but what I used to do and once I did take more of a leadership role, I mixed it. I would sometimes go in there smooth in Mr. Rivers’ style and end up in Ed’s style or sometimes I’ll go in there with Ed’s style and end up with Mr.

Rivers. I just put them together and it depends on the situation. It depends on the people you’re dealing with.

	O:	Are you optimistic about some of the young leaders who have run for office and won? Shelley Eddie and Ed James III.

	G:	Yes I’m really excited about Ed James III because he’s been raised up. He’s the next guy. Unfortunately, he’s gonna be the next guy not here. He’s gonna be on a bigger stage. But that’s where he needs to be. He’s been raised for that so he’s gonna be dynamic.

	O:	A lion.



	G:	And ain’t no telling where he’s gonna go, you know what I’m saying? As far as locally, Shelley, she’s gonna be a really, really good person. She has a kind heart number one, and she’s smart. She’s smart. She’s ready for this. I could see her going on to County Commissioner or something later too but I don’t see people





behind her. Not people not supporting her. I’m talking about the next group of leaders—

	O:	Oh, behind her.



	G:	Yeah, yeah. So, that’s what we got to find. We got to encourage kids, I call them now. I’m an old man but, we gotta encourage these kids that that’s the way to go. “You can do that. You can be that. You need to be that. You should be that. We need you to be that.” So, it’s just identifying.

	O:	Early.



	G:	Early.



	O:	And to start to just continue to groom.



	G:	I don’t know, I think the branch does have a youth— O:	Leadership?

	G:	Yup, branch. We used to have one. We’ve got to push those people and get them more involved. We need that to be able to find that in our kids at school too. Make them get into the Key Club, interact, things like that. I did that when I was in high school. Get into that stuff. I was the only Black kid in mine so what? But you learn. You learn how to deal with situations, different people. It’s okay to be the only one. I was the only one in a lot of stuff because my mom pushed me out there. Pushed me out there. “You’re not sitting around. You’re gonna be involved and you’re gonna do stuff and you’re gonna learn.” Those people you have to deal with for the rest of your life.

	O:	Alright. With that, I’m going to say thank you very much. G:	Thank you.





[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Sandra Romero, April 11, 2017



	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, October 31, 2018 Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 4, 2020