AAHP 053C, Felder; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 053C Alonzo Felder African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Paul Ortiz on July 9, 2015 1 hour, 3 minutes | 21 pages



Abstract: Alonzo Felder, in his third interview with University of Florida’s African Ameircan History Project, discusses his late great-grandfather Albert Syndey James Allen. Felder refers to him A.S.J., and says how influential the man was in his community as a preacher, a farmer and a friend. A.S.J was a minister at Mt. Nebo United Methodist Church and Felder says how his family continued to attend the church for many years. In fact, seven generations of his ancestors are buried in the cemetery of Mt. Nebo. Felder explains the details of A.S.J.’s death and its impact on his family. He also defines his perception of the word “Negro” versus “African American” or “Black”.

Lastly, he gives tips for anyone interested in looking into their own family history.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Mt. Nebo United Methodist Church; Genealogy]











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 053C

Interviewee: Alonzo Felder Interviewer: Paul Ortiz Date: July 9, 2015



	O:	All right. We are here today, my name’s Paul Ortiz. I’m with my dear friend Alonzo Felder, and I’m adjusting the volume. Alonzo, could you speak into the mic for us?

	F:	All right. Hopefully this is loud enough. But if I need to speak louder, I can do that. Or move closer?

	O:	No, I think that’s—I think you’re coming in loud and clear. Well, Alonzo, we have talked about Reverend Albert Sydney James Allen in the past. He was a person who was a formidable religious figure, leader, minister in Florida, and also happens to be your ancestor. And I wonder if you could begin by talking about what he means to you, what his life represents, as well as what you found out about what happened to him.

	F:	Okay. A.S.J., as we usually refer to him, married into the family. The Limbrick family, with the leaders of Phyllis and Shed or Shedrick, had a number of children. All of them were deeply involved in the CME Methodist Church in the Alachua/Gainesville area. The youngest daughter, Diona, married A.S.J. So, when he came into the family, he was immediately surrounded by a long line of Methodist preachers. In fact, I believe all of Diona’s brothers were preachers. He was ordained after their marriage, and continued sort of the family legacy, and was involved in working a circuit. So, a C.C. Rider in the Alachua-Gainesville- Citra-Jacksonville area of the state. And what he brought, I guess, to the family from my perspective was just furthering a teaching of pride and integrity in who we were. A.S.J., from all that I’ve learned about him, was deeply involved in the





community. So it wasn’t just a, “Hi, I’m here on Sunday to preach to you,” but apparently was responsible for education and classroom facilities for local children in the Alachua area. Was involved in preaching, was involved in a lot of helping. This is a time in history when there was no health insurance, life insurance, available for African Americans. So you have secret societies that took care of local people. And I find, as I was researching A.S.J., that he really built a lot of what I like to call social capital in the community. The women’s protective organization or league was there in Alachua County; Diona and A.S.J. were involved there and all. That was just about, really, collecting money so that you’d have a couple pennies a week that would add up over time. And if someone lost a spouse or a child due to any cause, and they needed money to bury them, they were there. As I researched A.S.J., a lot of what I found out about him was from legal records. And specifically marriages. It’s amazing to see the vast number of people in the city of Alachua, and that whole Gainesville/Alachua area—Waldo—that he married. And they were a prolific family, with a lot of children of his own. It looks like he married the majority of them, in addition to, I guess, everybody else in the neighborhood. So, A.S.J. was one of those figures that was—he was well-known, well-liked. When you look at the research of just the newspapers and what they say about him—I’ve got one here in my hand from, accounting his murder: “Negro Preacher Killed Near Alachua.” And it goes on to refer to him as a prominent citizen, a prominent farmer, in the area. He built a lot of capital with the folks in the area. And for me, as one of his ancestors, I take some pride in that. That he didn’t just live there,





but he was involved. And that was, apparently, something that was to his favor in accounts for what happened after his shooting. I find that the killing of A.S.J. to be very interesting, in that, when I look at newspaper clippings from the 1880s on through the early 1900s, you have a lot of articles that just say, for example, “Sam Bass was shot today. He was a bad person.” And that was it! And the shooting, and I think, the murder of Negro men in particular wasn’t really a big deal. It was just sort of, “This happened today. Meanwhile, Miss Suzie had a social event and a lot of people came from out of town to her social club meeting.” You know? It was just sort of in passing. But you have April of 1904, the shooting of A.S.J.; I’ve got a lot of articles, which I think is unusual—that it didn’t just appear once and appear in one paper, but a lot of different papers in the surrounding area. And the thing that’s really phenomenal is, you have this phenomenon of ‘the Negroes fought back.’ The community comes together, and they hire two lawyers, one from Gainesville, one from Jacksonville, and they say, “We’re going to fight this. We have just witnessed the murder of somebody we care about, somebody who was important in our community, and we’re not going to just let this one go by. We’re going to stand up to this because this wasn’t right.” It was—on the books it’s listed as a “justifiable homicide.” I have actually seen the grand jury listing in the archives there in Alachua, and you can see that the coroner did his job and looked at the body, they had the grand jury meet; but at the end of the day, a White guy killed a Black guy, and it really wasn’t that big of a deal in the court system. So, there was no—at least, from my point of view and my family’s point of view—justice was not served. It was senseless. It was a





waste. But what’s really significant from, I mean, in my view, is that my family and my family’s community went through the process. So, there’s a murder: you have a choice. You just accept it, you sit back and you do nothing; or you say, “I’m going to do this on your turf, and I’m going to go through the process.” The only other alternative is take to the streets and riot. Well, we’ve seen that story. That never ends well. Nothing good ever comes out of the taking to the street. You can on one hand say nothing came out of this, but I believe it set a precedence. Because it was—if I’m remembering correctly, it wasn’t long after A.S.J.’s case that a laundry worker in Jacksonville, who was a Black woman, was killed by a White person—the community felt, unjustly—they went to court, too. And then, you start seeing, throughout Florida’s history, people deciding, “We’re not just going to whimper about it, and we’re not going to take to the streets. We’ll fight it the way that it’s being given to us: through the court system.” And I’m very proud to be his ancestor.

	O:	Now, you mentioned A.S.J. was very active in community organizations, and fraternal organizations. Education for children. Could you talk about the ways in which his life intersected with Mt. Nebo? Because Mt. Nebo, as an institution, seems to be remarkable in itself.

	F:	The Mt. Nebo settlement is phenomenal. When A.S.J. was active and preaching, his home, it seems, was in Jonesville and Newnansville area. And then, he also was preaching at the Mt. Nebo Methodist Church. Mt. Nebo, from all I can find about it, apparently after—or during Reconstruction—a lot of freed African Americans from South Carolina headed to Florida. And just about every census I





look at of people in the Mt. Nebo area, when you look for the line of where were the parents born, it just says “SC.” So apparently, South Carolina was not the place to be after you were freed, and an exodus took place to Alachua County. The community there seems to be one that really nurtured African American enterprise and development. I’m not sure why that is, but you find a lot of people freed. African Americans—people, actually, with no history of enslavement, in that area. So, I still have more research to do to figure out what that’s all about. The Limbricks apparently have a long history in that area of free people of color. You find them going back into the mid-1800s on census records, which is unusual. And they’re just listed as “free.” So, that was the family that A.S.J. married into. He himself moved into this area from Alabama. And the only thing I really know about him, I have a census record that indicates an A.S.J.—or an Albert Sydney James Allen—moving from Midland, Alabama, to the Gainesville area. And don’t have any parents. He had a male roommate that he’s listed with, the two of them “boarders,” on a census. And that’s kind of all I know there. But again, there was something going on in Mt. Nebo that made it a good, fertile place for him to be. One of the articles that we have talks about him as being supported by many prominent Republicans, and having an endorsement for postmaster for the area there. So something was happening, I just don’t really have all the particulars.

	O:	Talk about, if you would, the church at Mt. Nebo, and the cemetery, and what that means.





	F:	Yes. That, you know, that one’s really special to me, because in my family, when there’s a funeral, it’s at Mt. Nebo. I’ve gone there many, many times, and so far, I’ve been able to identify seven generations of my family buried in the Mt. Nebo Methodist Church cemetery. Now, the folks who stayed in Gainesville, it seems— the older people—they were all members of that church. The folks that are there now have moved on to either other churches, or have just sort of un-churched themselves and, you know, go nowhere. But it’s a very interesting place. There’s a corner stone on the building itself that has two dates. And apparently, the church was the victim of a burning or bombing back in the [19]60s, and was rebuilt in 1968. I still need to learn a little bit more about it. But, that cemetery, some of my earliest memories as a child are going to Mt. Nebo for funerals. It’s just absolutely overwhelming sometimes to me when I go there, and I know that I’m standing amidst seven generations of my ancestors. That’s one of those feelings that—I don’t know, you can’t get that just anywhere. And it’s a very special kind of bond. My wife and I recently have had the discussion, “Where are we going to go?” I turned sixty this year, so, there’s always, as you age, there’s that thought of, “Hm, there may be fewer years ahead than there are behind!

We’d better plan or think about this!” And we are continuing to have that discussion of, “Will the Felders be added to Mt. Nebo cemetery?” I think it’s special, too, just the fact that it is one of the oldest Methodist churches in the area. The Methodists are—they’re an interesting group. The main line Methodist church was the M.E., Methodist Episcopal church, and for a long time in their history, that was the only church of that denomination. Things got really dicey





during the 1800s over the issue of slavery. And at one point, the leaders of the church sort of decreed, or came out with a decree that you couldn’t be a part of the Methodist church if you owned slaves. So, the church—they simply split in two, and there was the ME church, and then there was what’s usually referred to as the Southern Methodist church. And you have a lot of the abolitionists and blacks as a part of the ME church, which is where A.S.J. and the Limbricks’ family all seemed to congregate, and then you had the Southern church. The ME church has continued to exist throughout history. It is now the United Methodist Church. They have continued to have a strong stance on and commitment to integration, and diversity. That, too, is something that gives me a bit of pleasure to—not that I had anything to do with, but—to look back and see that my ancestors chose a path of diversity and unity. They could have easily gone AME, which was the African Methodist Episcopal church, which essentially was formed by Richard Allen in protest to not being able to pray in a White church. So, he created a Black church. And that sentiment has never been one that I’ve heard good things about, in talking with my grandparents, and other cousins, and stuff. It’s like, “We don’t want to be defined by what we’re against. But, let’s make this thing work.”

	O:	Yeah. What did—thinking about the cemetery again, are there formerly enslaved people buried in the cemetery?

	F:	I believe that there are, because in the very back of the cemetery—so, when I say the “back,” as you approach the church and cemetery, there’s Shaw Highway right there in front, and for a number of yards from the highway back, you have





newer grave markers, mostly people with birthdates in the mid-1800s. And those markers are fairly easy to read, and pretty clear. Well-preserved. But beyond the marker, there’s a stoned-in area for Shed and Phyllis Limbrick, who are Diona’s parents. Beyond them, you don’t have a lot of tombstones. But there are some stones there that, in visiting with you and some other folks, I learned that some of those stones weren’t just boulders, but they were indeed African markers. So, I have no idea who those people are, and how far back that goes. I would love to excavate that more with someone who’s knowledgeable, because as I looked at them, I just saw rocks. But apparently, there are people buried there, further back.

	O:	Yeah, we should talk about it, because there’s technology now that allows you to do scanning, where you don’t have to actually—

	F:	To disturb the ground? That’s great.



	O:	Alonzo, I wonder if you could take us to this time, this moment in 1904. And the event, the murder, this catastrophe, is still shrouded in a certain element of mystery: that is, we don’t have all of the pieces. But there are certain key aspects of the story that we do know.

	F:	Right.



	O:	Can you kind of walk us through that terrible day, and what you think—at this point—led up to it? In the context, what life was like for A.S.J. and Black people in Mt. Nebo in 1904.

	F:	That week, as I understand it—A.S.J. was a farmer. And his land abutted the farm of J.L. Shaw, Joseph L. Shaw. Both of these men, well-known, prominent in





their own circles, throughout the area. And A.S.J. walks out into the field—I believe it was a Monday that this happened—and he notices that Mr. Shaw is erecting a fence. What he sees is that the boundary stones that separates their property have been moved, and Shaw is actually erecting the fence on his property—on Grandfather’s property. So he’s taking away a strip of land that should be A.S.J.’s. And he confronts him about this. Apparently, both men were out in the field. Grandpa talks to Shaw about it, and when I piece together all the newspaper accounts and what I’ve heard passed on down the family, the story seems to be that there’s a confrontation there at the border, and A.S.J. is standing there with one of his girls, Ella—my aunt—who grew up there in Gainesville, and who I spent much time with.

	O:	How old was she at the time?



	F:	She was a, I would say pre-teen. She’s, I’m thinking, around nine. Eight or nine years old. And the story I’ve heard from Essie Singleton, when we interviewed her, is, she was holding her dad’s hand. Mr. Shaw and Grandpa were having this argument about the fence, and Shaw decided to go into the house, and he comes back with a shotgun. Now, my grandfather, it’s reported, was tending the field; he had a hoe. So you’ve got this confrontation that apparently gets heated, and this man goes in the house, and you have a shotgun versus a hoe. And the shotgun won. He just, at close range, shot and killed my grandfather right there in front of his child. Apparently, there were other people from the congregation there, so it was witnessed by a fairly large number of people, which really makes it hard to understand the No Bill, the “justifiable homicide,” because there were





many witnesses to this, who said that Shaw shot and killed my grandfather. I don’t know much about him physically, if he was a large-statured man. I have a picture of him, that he’s sitting in a chair, holding his Bible. I think it’s probably his ordination picture. But he seems fairly small and thin, and I don’t know that I would particularly feel threatened if I have a loaded gun, and there’s a farmer with a hoe attacking me.

O:  And that’s what the newspaper, the Gainesville Sun and others, appeared to—I mean, not appear, but they essentially say it outright, that Shaw felt threatened, but he went in to get a firearm, and then returned.

F:  Yes, and then returned. And my thought is, if I’m threatened, I’ll go inside and I’ll just stay there. That’s what I do when I feel threatened.

	O:	Yeah. To me, it sounds more like he felt enraged that a Black man was holding his own, and insisting upon, “These are boundaries. There’s nothing radical about this: this is my land, that’s your land.”

	F:	Right. I believe Florida has a history of Stand Your Ground.



	O:	[Laughter] Exactly. Well, and, you know, the other thing, too, is—we’ve had this discussion before, Alonzo, as well—is that it, to me it seems like it’s not simply a matter of one man’s property versus another man’s property. It’s also Mt. Nebo, the church, the community, the cemetery is tied up there as well, isn’t it?

	F:	It is, because, my understanding is, that property, which is now Mt. Nebo church and the cemetery, that whole area was A.S.J.’s farm. Interestingly enough, there is a fence that runs between the Mt. Nebo church—the church, when you’re facing it, is on the right, and on the left of that boundary is Shaw Estates, today.





It’s a rather high-end housing development. And that’s where the J.L. Shaw homestead was located. So I think we’re looking at the actual property line, or at least, the same two properties, and I don’t know quite what was so significant about that property at that time. I mean, you’ve got a major—Shaw Highway, runs in front. So it’s named, the major highway is named after Mr. Shaw. And then you’ve got Shaw Estates. And then to the right of Shaw Estates, you have Mt. Nebo. And it’s an interesting juxtaposition, there. I think—I don’t remember if you were there in the nursing home when we, Seth and I, interviewed Essie. And she talked about her, as a little girl, in her fear of walking past the Shaw residence to go to school. This killing had a big effect on my family.

	O:	What did the family do in the wake of the killing?



	F:	As far as I can read, and hear? Nothing. They made peace with the proceedings that the lawyers were hired. “No Bill” was the result of the grand jury. “There’s nothing we can do; we will live with it.” And, to this day, I still have family in the area. Which, again, I think is a great testament to my family. Because it would be so easy to be angry, bitter, violent, aggressive; all sorts of things come to mind. But, I don’t know of any kind of retaliation or anything like that. I spent many of my summers growing up in the Mt. Nebo area with relatives, and it’s just not talked about. I mean, I’m not saying that everybody’s got loving and open arms, and looking to embrace all the Shaw descendants. I don’t see that. But I also notice a sense of, “We’re living in this community, and we’re living at peace with the people in this community.” I think that’s huge.

	O:	Now, after the murder, did some of your family leave? Did they—





	F:	Not really. When A.S.J. was killed, at that point he was already a widower. Diona died about two years earlier. We think it was, her death was, associated with the birth of my grandmother. So, at the time that he was shot, A.S.J. was raising two little ones at home: my grandmother Fannie was two, her brother Wilbert was four. The rest of the kids were in Daytona, and they are listed at the Daytona Institute, and also at Bethune College—at that time, it was not Bethune- Cookman, but it was Bethune Institute. So, the kids, depending on their grade level, were either at the Daytona Institute, or at Bethune. The two oldest kids had moved out of the area. Phyllis was married and living in St. Petersburg. Phyllis took it on herself to essentially adopt my grandmother and my uncle Wilbert. I’ve found letters that she wrote to the state, seen her application for guardianship; apparently, it was a big ordeal for her to get custody of the kids. But they would’ve been in foster care had it not been for Phyllis. So, she took them to St. Pete, and my grandmother was raised there. There was a kid in Alachua that apparently ended up also in St. Pete, not sure why, by the name of Ned, that she married in 1923. And that was how the family sort of moved out. Wilbert went into the military, and he came out and landed in New York. Some of the other kids ended up in Jacksonville, and one of the girls, Gussie, ended up in Philadelphia, in Pennsylvania. So, the family, some stayed in that area, but others just sort of left out of the area.

	O:	What is the—and you mentioned that there was a community-wide effort to— because, initially, the county coroner looks at this and, I mean, this is Jim Crow Florida. And there are no records of White people convicted, or even indicted, for





murder of Black people, as you mentioned earlier. But, could you talk a little bit about what you found, in terms of the efforts to try to get some justice for A.S.J.?

	F:	I mentioned secret societies. I’ve got some newspaper articles that say that the two attorneys were hired by the Masons and the Odd Fellows. So, the community—I guess, what I can surmise—the community came together, and they sort of rallied behind the societies that they felt empowered by. Because I can imagine, in 1904, just a random group of Negro farmers, there’s no clout there. But, they were organized around the women’s protective society, the Odd Fellows society, and the Freemasons. A.S.J. was a Freemason. What I find interesting is, even all of his children have Freemason links. My grandmother was a member of the Eastern Star. The only way you can be a part of the Eastern Star is through heredity or marriage. Well, Ned was not a Mason—her husband—so, it’s all through A.S.J. And these people, these organizations, gave the community the clout that I guess they felt they needed to press the issue.

But, I would love to be able to get my hands on the private records of these lawyers to just find out what happened. Or the coroner’s report, just to know, where was he shot? You know? Was it in the back? Was it in the face? What exactly can we learn from the crime scene? I really don’t have any of that information.

	O:	Taking a step back, Alonzo—I mean, you talked really compellingly about A.S.J. and what he means to you personally in a family sense—take a step back now, and talk about what his life—I mean, you can’t boil a person’s life down to one incident, right? Because he has this rich, amazing, associational family life, he





marries into an already-distinguished family. But, what does this mean to the broader history of the United States? What does this whole kind of story boil down to in your mind?

	F:	Immediately, what comes to mind is the networking and the connections that African Americans have traditionally established and had to follow in order to not be a victim in the society that we live in. The world is a White world. It’s not made for us. And that’s an uncomfortable truth, I believe: that you have to figure out your place, and how to navigate it. What I see in the narratives of A.S.J. and Diona is sort of the narrative of the ‘striving-to-be-upwardly-mobile Negro’ in America. I think of people like Booker T. Washington, who was alive during this time period. And you have Grandpa and many other people doing the same thing in communities all over America. They purchase land, they farm the land, they sharecrop part of the land. When one of the children gets married, they give the land to the children, and so you have communities that get built up based on land ownership and a common family. So, when I talked earlier about social capital, what I see A.S.J. having done, and the Limbricks having done, in the Gainesville/Alachua County area is, there’re these large farms still there, that I have cousins who have built houses. And the subdivisions that these houses are in are parts of the land that used to belong to their parents and grandparents.

And I think that’s the method of community-building that happened all over America. That was the way you established a settlement. Because, you get enough family together, enough land, the next thing you’re going to have to do is build a building, and that becomes your church—the church always was first—





and then, the church would double as a school. And then, later on, you would have another building built close by that became the general store and the gathering place. So, that idea is what I get out of my family, and I believe it was typical of African Americans all over this country. But along with the physical building of communities and places, there was an instructional building that also took place. You know, the story of A.S.J., if nothing else, it teaches me that if you don’t know how to respond appropriately, you may not get to go home and go to sleep, any particular day. You wake up, and that’s a great thing, but what’s important is, will you make it home in order to go to bed, to fight another day?

And I believe that that generation of Diona and A.S.J. understood that. And I think, unfortunately, it gets mistaken for everything from Uncle Tommery to Southern etiquette, that when you’re Black, and you’re on the street, and you’re facing a White person, you avoid eye contact, you cross the street; if you stay on that side, you tip your hat, you bow. You, “How you do?” Whatever. But you learn methods of communication that help you to stay alive. And in this, what I see as the bigger narrative—bringing today into it—we have a lot of situations now where Black youth have been shot just like A.S.J. was, and I believe a lot of the problem is that that information, that knowledge, of how—how to live with White people [Laughter]—just hasn’t been passed on. Now, there’s a part of me that says, “Well, good grief, it’s 2015! It shouldn’t be passed on! You need to be able to be a man, walk with your head up, and just go regardless.” That’s true. It’s not reality everywhere. There are places, and there are situations, and there are





authorities that we have to deal with, that, I think, we need to revisit some of Booker T.’s ideology.

	O:	Well, one example is, in the era of Youtube, we’ve seen video footage of White men who walk—recently, I saw one where a White man walked on a beach, another one walked into a store with an assault rifle—in both cases, with assault rifles. And the police were called. The police came, talked to these men who had assault rifles, and kind of de-escalated the situation. In contrast, you have another incident where a Black boy the age of twelve has a water pistol. He’s shot down by the police. And a lot of people have said, “Well, how could this be?” And what you’re saying is, “Wake up: this is the United States of America. It shouldn’t be this way, but—”

	F:	—but it is. And I think the burden is on us. It’s on educators, it’s on older people, it’s on us as a community to get back to a basic value of “it takes a village to raise a child.” We’ve been bad villagers. And that’s not a popular thing to say, but I believe it to be true. I don’t think we as a country, we’ve not been good villagers in raising our children to understand that, for all the talk of integration, and diversity, and tolerance, and acceptance, we’re not there yet. And because we’re not there yet, there are basic things that you need to understand if you are not White. If you’re Black/Brown, there are things you need to understand that, say, the rules are a little bit different. And I understand the angst and the anxiety that people have over that, in saying, “But it’s not right, it shouldn’t be that way, I don’t want to accept that!” It’s sort of like going to the doctor and being told that you have a disease. It’s not right, it’s not fair, you didn’t ask for it, it shouldn’t be. But





you better follow treatment if you want to get well. If you want to live to see the next day, you better follow the treatment. And I think that’s where we as the villagers have to really embrace our children, and help them to understand how to navigate this world. So that’s, that’s the big—that’s how I see A.S.J. in the bigger picture of the world. Because I think the world’s full of A.S.J.s. You know? The early 1900s, for me, it’s an exciting time—and when I say “early,” I’m really thinking from 1900 on through about the 1950s. It’s a time we don’t talk about, when it was cool to be a Negro. That’s what we called ourselves. I mean, we have organizations still around that use that word. And that reference, to me, conjures up imagery of something very different from being Black, or African American. Because, when I think of a early 1900s Negro—people like my grandmother, my mother, my dad—these folks come into mind, and the imagery is that of people who dressed well. People with impeccable taste, in terms of etiquette, manner. They didn’t do things in a slap—haphazard kind of way, because there was this mentality that to be accepted as as-good, I’ve got to be twice as good. So, in my family, I’ve got a lot of folks who graduated out of Bethune College, later Bethune-Cookman. Cousins who actually created the cancer research center at Howard. People who decided that they were going to, in a very secular sense, they were going to be somebody. And then, others who, in a religious sense, they didn’t just want to be an itinerant preacher, but built ministries. And I think that’s what comes to mind when I conjure up, when I think of the word “Negro,” from that early 1900s. That was necessary to have an air of respectability, and confidence, and competence. That’s why I think so many of us





had parents who were insistent on education. You know, the option of dropping out of school was never on the table. It just was not there. In most families, the option of not going to college was not an option. I went through this with my own children. My own son, in high school, I remember coming home and seeing him in his baggy FUBU outfit with his hat on sideways, and you know, looking “the part,” and he made the mistake of telling me that, You know,” he said, “Dad, I think not everybody’s made for college, and I think I’m one of those people.” And I’d just finished a project at work, doing a presentation in celebration of the anniversary—I think it was the 50th anniversary of Brown v. Board of Education— and he picked the worst time in the world to tell me that he didn’t think he was college material. So I just sat him down. I said, “Son, I have this vision of your future, and it involves you in a paper hat and a spatula, asking ‘Would you like to biggie-size that?’ And I just can’t see that for you.” So, needless to say, he went on, and I think he bought it. I convinced him to go, and he’s graduated college, as has my daughter, so. I think A.S.J. would have wanted it that way.

	O:	Very proud. Well, I mean, when you talk about Howard, when you talk about Bethune-Cookman, when you talk about Mt. Nebo, you’re talking about institutions that African Americans built. I mean, they didn’t just run the institutions, they built them, brick-by-brick-by-brick. And these are institutions that are still around. And it could be that there’s something from that—you mentioned that there’s a certain excitement in looking between 1900 and 1950. You know, it’s a hard period. I mean, in Alachua County, in many ways, the county, the city government, the police—I mean, they’re run by the Klan. Let’s be honest.





	F:	Yes.



	O:	But people like A.S.J., and his children, and his children’s children, know that.



	They know that the police chief in the 1920s— F:	Is a Klan member.

	O:	Is a Klansman. Right? So, they don’t run. They don’t go to Detroit, they don’t go to New York. They stay. And if they went to Orange County, if they went to Tampa, they would face the same reality. If they went to Atlanta, they’d face the same reality. I mean, the Atlanta race riot, I think, was 1906, destroyed much of the black part of Atlanta. And so they stayed and fought—if you wouldn’t mind me using that metaphor—

	F:	No.



	O:	—of kind of combat, in a way. Because you’re—it’s almost as if Mt. Nebo, the way you describe it, with the enormous Shaw plantation, and likely White-owned land on the other side—I mean, Mt. Nebo is like a citadel in a certain way. I mean, the cemetery is the record of past strivings of ancestral connections to, there’s a religious pathway, there’s an ancestral pathway to Africa. There are familial connections. But these are institutions that people take tremendous pride in. They’re not consumers of a broader culture.

	F:	No.



	O:	They have built their own culture. Or, cultures.



	F:	And the contribution, like you say, is multidimensional. I walk through that cemetery, and it’s amazing that you can see on many of the tombstones occupations—which, I don’t know if that’s common in most cemeteries. I don’t





think it is. But, you walk the graves of Mt. Nebo, and you see soldier, after soldier, after soldier, with their military rank listed. The division of the military listed. Every—I mean, it’s prominent. So many of those markers have the square on it, the Mason symbol, very prominently displayed. Others talk about “teacher.” The, either “preacher,” or the name is listed as “Reverend So-and-So.” So you have people who made it a point to contribute to this world that they were born into. My family, interestingly, we’re not big consumers. And I think a lot of that can be traced back to A.S.J. and just the way he raised his children. I think the Limbricks, and the way they raised their children. That life is about what you put into it, and what you give, and not about the toys you collect. And I see that kind of legacy even today in the family.

	O:	Yeah, and our society on the popular broad level, is all about the toys, the bells and whistles. Is A.S.J. buried in Mt. Nebo?

	F:	[Laughter] And thus, the biggest mystery of my life!



	O:	It just occurred to me, I don’t know why I never even thought of that, but I—



	F:	I do not know where A.S.J. or Diona are buried. And, I have been searching, and continue to search, to find a marker with their names on it.

	O:	That is a tremendous mystery.



F:  Mmhm. All of her sisters and brothers are in Mt. Nebo. But Diona is not—or at least, I haven’t found it yet.

O:  Wow. That’s amazing. And you know, there are other mysteries, too. There’s the cornerstone of the church, mentioned earlier. There are, I know, other aspects of family history that you’d like to continue to kind of excavate as well. What would





you say to people who are just thinking now, “Hey, I’d like to learn about my family history; I come from rural”—you know, Mississippi, or Georgia—“and I just don’t know anything. I never thought about doing it.” What would be some of your kind of tips or pointers?

	F:	I think it’s very important to find out who the people are that got you here. I believe the study of genealogy, the study of the biography of your ancestors, is important to help you as you map out your path. How to do that? Start with what you know. That’s what I did. I literally started with a large sheet of paper on the wall, and I would do circles and squares for men and women, and put down, “Okay, here’s me. Here’s Mom. Here’s Dad. Here’s Mom’s mom and dad. Here’s their parents.” And just map out what you know. Then, research-wise, there’s Ancestry.com, there’s the Latter Day Saints website, and then, if your county has an online—an ancient records site, which Alachua County does have, it’s put there by Jim Powell, who’s the County Clerk there—get on that site and start looking for the names that you know. And then, you will find records that will lead you to other people. So, Ancestry is very good. If somebody else in the family has already done some research, it’s most likely there, and you can link into it there. But, the Latter Day Saints site. There is a site devoted exclusively to World War I and World War II veterans. So if you have a family member that you know was in one of those wars, go to that site, put in their name. You will learn—you will actually see a picture of their induction card. What’s great about that is it tells you when and where they were inducted, and depending on their age, it usually tells you who their parents were. So, that gives you information. And then, talk to





your living relatives. I’ve spent a lot of time just sitting down with older people, trying to get the stories behind the names. And as they talk, write it down—now, that can kind of backfire on you, because you’ll talk to three relatives, and you may end up with three different stories as to who’s Mom and Dad, and who’s the child, and so it can get kind of hairy in there. That’s okay; you got the family, you’ll figure it out later. But at least you’ll be able to get the names, the nicknames, and later on you’ll have—you know, that exercise of associating that “Bubba” really is Uncle Benjamin. So, you’ll have those kinds of things to do. But that’s part of the journey. Obituaries are wonderful sources of information. When people die, there’s always a long list of “Survived by:” brother, sister, mother— and once you get that in hand, you go back to that tree, and you start filling in the blanks. So that’s how I’ve done it. I’ve made it back to the mid-1800s, and all of that’s courtesy of public records and oral histories.

	O:	All right, Alonzo—speaking of family, I know that your wife may want to see you this evening at some point. But I want to thank you again for what is—it’s always really cool to be able to talk with you, and to learn from you, and I really value that, your friendship and your time. Thank you.

	F:	Thank you, Paul. This has been great. [End of recording]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, July 15, 2015 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019