AAHP 105; Underwood; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 105 Flora Underwood African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on August 20, 2010 16 minutes | 11 pages



Abstract: Flora Underwood was raised in Perry, Florida, and attended Jerkins High School. In this interview, she describes her family, and her experiences going to Jerkins, as well as some of the history of racism in Perry. She offers some reflections on Black community life and dynamics in Perry as well.





Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School]



Standards:

SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws SS.912.A.7.5 Social activism









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 105

Interviewee: Flora Underwood Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: August 20, 2010



	W:	All right, this is Marna Weston for the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. I’m speaking with the president of class of 1949 at Jerkins High School, Ms. Flora Underwood. Ms. Underwood thank you for speaking with me.

	U:	Thank you too, thank you.



	W:	When and where were you born? U:	I was born in Havana, Florida.

		W:	And what year was that? U:	1930

	W:	Okay what day? U:	June 22nd.

	W:	Okay I knew where Havana is I was there at a wedding with a friend of mine he got married; it was a beautiful area we really liked being there. What brought you from Havana, Florida where you were born to Jerkins High School here in Perry?

	U:	Well my mother died when I was ten months old, and my older sister told my father to bring us here and she’d help him with us. And she took five of us, sisters and brothers in. So, Ethel Penn was her name and she was a business woman here in Perry. So from six years old up until I married out of the house in 1950, I lived with her.

	W:	Who are who were your mother and father?



	U:	Reverend H.M. Underwood and Mrs. Ada Underwood. W:	And when and where were they born?





	U:	I really don’t know because I was ten months old when she died. Yes and I don’t know much about of their history.

	W:	So do you have more information about the people who raised you? U:	Yes, my sister.

	W:	Okay what is her name?



	U:	Ethel Penn, her name is Ethel Penn. W:	And how old is she?

	U:	Well she’s passed. W:	Okay, I’m very sorry.

	U:	She was born in 1901 and I was born in 1930, so she’s twenty-nine or thirty years older than me.

	W:	Wow that’s a big stretch between the two of you. Were there other brothers or sisters in between?

	U:	There was eleven of us.



	W:	Oh my gosh eleven, now you can tell me everybody can’t you? U:	I don’t know, because I’m the youngest.

	W:	Oh that’s right, so the baby.



	U:	Yes, yes, uh-huh. So I don’t too much of my history, you know.



	W:	Well but you know about the history of Jerkins High School because you were the president of the class. So what is it about Jerkins that motivated you to come and be here today?

	U:	Well my friends and classmates you know and Jerkins was a wonderful school. In fact we didn’t have a—our school building burned down when I was in the fifth





grade, so we didn’t have a school we had we went to school in churches and rented houses. So, but we had a wonderful school you know, wonderful teachers and principal Mr. Homer Smith was my principal so.

	W:	I spoke earlier today with Ms. Laura Scott Reaves and she mentioned Mr. Smith and she also talked about these schools burning down.

	U:	Yeah.



	W:	Well she told me she said “There were the ones doing the burning and the one doing the running and I’ll leave you to figure out which was which.” Why were all the schools burning here in Taylor County?

	U:	I don’t know it’s a history of school burnings of a certain group of people you know so they didn’t only burn schools they burned churches too. So that group of people you know, I guess the Ku Klux Klan.

	W:	Was that a significant issue here in Taylor County? Because it’s not something that people are writing about or talking about in history books so for me as a student and researcher, I’m hearing about it really for the first time from y’all.

	U:	Really?



	W:	The people in Jerkins High School.



	U:	Really? Well it was all over you know all over the state. And different states too, so that was something that went on you know, a lot.

	W:	Well you know when people talk about Florida they talk about Disney World, they talk about low taxes, and a lot of jobs and stuff this not something that you know people in my generation really know about. Did you actually, if not know





specifically did you know of who the people in the Klan were actually here locally?

	U:	No, no, no I did not I was a child.



	W:	But people would say “Oh it’s the Klan?” U:	Right, right.

	W:	What kind of conversations would your family have about you know violence of the Klan? What kind of warnings did they give you as a child to keep you safe?

	U:	Well you wouldn’t be out at night you know when night comes, you you’re supposed to be in the house and so it wasn’t too much to talk about it was just like hush hush so. That’s that just the way it was.

	W:	Is that something that here with the schools being segregated and things being different did everybody here know you know who the White people in the community were and did the White people know who the Black people were? Or were you strangers to each other?

	U:	No we didn’t know you mean the Klan? Or just? No.



	W:	Just which ever you would care to talk about. I just want to begin with.



	U:	No we had White families living in the Black community running stores you know? They’d run groceries stores, but they was friendly, so we didn’t whether they was in the Klan or not.

	W:	Well that must have been kind of scary that you could have been going to the grocery store and buying groceries from the same people that was burning stuff. How did people deal with that? Did you just act like you didn’t know because you didn’t know? I mean how did that work?





	U:	As far as I know we acted like we didn’t know you, you know? So we didn’t really know who it was because they was covered in sheets and hoods. We didn’t know who they was.

	W:	Did you actually ever see anything like that or was this something people talked to you about?

	U:	Talked to me about, yes because I was a child I didn’t—they tried to keep everything from us you know so, so we wouldn’t be afraid and in fact everybody would be back in hiding when night comes. Everybody stayed in.

	W:	Now that you are you’re you know, reached the age that you have reached and you’ve had a chance to reflect on your life and the things that’ve happened here in a Taylor County where you grew up, what is it that you really liked about growing up here?

	U:	Because it was like the whole community was a family and everybody looked after everybody. Everybody was everybody’s mother and father and so that’s the love of the people, that’s what I liked about it.

	W:	So—



	U:	And that’s what I still liked about it.



	W:	So you mean if you did something wrong your neighbors would spank you or they would correct you or tell you?

	U:	Yes they would and then you would go home and get another spanking. W:	So that did happen?

	U:	Yes it did. [Laughter]





	W:	Did it happen because you actually did something wrong or somebody just thought you did something wrong and they wanted to correct you?

	U:	Did something wrong, yeah we did something wrong, yes.



	W:	Well now you seem as sweet as you can be what, what did you do that was wrong?

	U:	Oh a lot [Laughter]. Childish things you know.



	W:	What does it mean to you to be here today and to see all these people excited about being here and to hear the laughter? How does that make you feel?

	U:	It makes me feel good, it makes me feel loved. The old love you don’t love, you don’t seem to be loving as close as you used to be when you was growing up. Everybody is like doing their own thing. I feel the love of the people. Yeah.

	W:	Do you think that’s something that’s been lost for the students that go to school today now that the schools are—everybody is together, there’s not just like your community, I guess we just use the word ‘integrated’ now as opposed to ‘segregated’; do you think that something was lost when the schools were integrated?

	U:	Yes, I do.



	W:	You know a lot of people your age tell me that. What why do you think that is that so many people of your generation feel that something was lost when the schools were integrated?

	U:	Well I feel we lost our identity. W:	In what, in what way?





	U:	Well uh, things we did and things we played and things we did. We were just different.

	W:	She just got right, all your business was right there. [Laughter]. Okay we’re not going to stop the tape but that was funny.

	U:	So we was so different, things we did and things they did, we didn’t know nothing about until when you know, well I wasn’t in my class was in 1949 so we wasn’t integrated then. So, but my children went to well integrated schools. And they just didn’t have nothing to do, because everybody was different.

	W:	Well for example, you were president of your freshman class. As a young Black woman they looked at your leadership and oh here’s a leader let’s elect her, but if you had gone to an integrated school maybe that might not have happened?

	U:	Right, that might not have happened.



	W:	And not because your leadership was different, just because the composition of the class was different.

	U:	Right.



W:  What is your definition of leadership, having been a leader in a school and now historical leader here with the class of Jerkins High School, what is leadership? Whatever you think it is.

U:   Well leadership is respect and —it’s respect. And confidence.



	W:	So what is it that makes, oh excuse me for a second. Yeah what’s up? AB:	Do you want a drink we are going to run to the gas station?

	W:	I’d love a Coke please. Just a Coca-Cola would be fine. AB:	Just plain? Not diet or anything?





	W:	No just a Coca-Cola, thank you. That was my colleague Ana so we’re all here together. I ask you because you know leadership is such a complex issue for people. When people ask “What makes a leader and how are they formed?” but here we can look back and see the history shows us in the book here that you were the president of the class so you have been a leader, you know you probably are the leader now so I wanted to know in your own words what was it that, what is it that makes a person a leader, what is leadership?

	U:	I guess they liked me because of my personality and I just was bubbly and loveable, so I guess that’s what it was and they elected me as president.

	W:	Do you remember where you were when you heard that Jerkins High School had been closed? Or was going to close?

	U:	I was in Melbourne, Florida and well, they was closing schools there too, and that’s where I was.

	W:	So that must have been the late sixties or early seventies? U:	Yes.

	W:	Okay well how did that make you feel when you heard that Jerkins was being closed?

	U:	Oh it made me feel sad, because I just, I felt we was losing something. You know? Losing our identity.

	W:	Would you be in favor of them opening Jerkins up again the way it was now? U:	Yes. They’d repair it you know, bring it up to date.

	W:	See you have a lot of memories here, who was your favorite teacher?



	U:	Um, my favorite teacher was oh boy, in the primary grades uh Ms. Ada Jerkins.





	W:	Was she uh in anyway relations to Mr. Jerkins? U:	Yes, that was her husband.

	W:	Okay and why was she your favorite?



	U:	Oh boy she was a loveable person and well I learned a lot from her because one thing I remember that I will never forget is we was at assembly and this person sat by another person and they act like they thought that they was better than that person, so they moved and she had them come back and sit down and told him not to you know think he was so much better than her you know? He didn’t want to sit by this particular person because he acted like he thought he was better than she.

	W:	So she watched that and observed and came over and taught a lesson? U:	Yes.

	W:	And was she always doing stuff like that?



	U:	Yes, uh-huh. So that learned that you don’t think that you’re better than other people, so that’s something that stuck with me, yeah.

	W:	Were there any other important lessons that you learned here at Jerkins?



	U:	Oh yes, learn how to get along with people, and how to love everybody and they taught that in school. They taught you know the Lord’s Prayer, we had assembly, and we had the Lord’s Prayer and scripture meeting and you know. I learned a lot about love, loving your neighbor, loving one another.

	W:	You mention that you had children, what are their names and how old are they? U:	Well I have one son and four daughters, and my son is named William

Stoneworth, and my oldest daughter Davida Stoneworth, my next, no Davida





Stoneworth Jenkins. And my next uh daughter is Lindora Stoneworth Harris, and my uh third Daughter is Ethel Brown, and my youngest daughter is Flora Cecilia Stoneworth.

	W:	And I’m sure you’re proud of all of them. U:	Yes I am.

	W:	If you were to sum up this whole experience in just a sentence or two, what would you say about the experience of being here at Jerkins this evening for this weekend?

	U:	It’s a happy occasion and I’m excited about meeting all my friends that I haven’t seen in so many years, so it’s a happy occasion for me.

	W:	Okay thank you, were you involved in any clubs or organizations besides being a class officer when you were in school?

	U:	Yes, I was a Girl Scout, and I was in the glee club, and I was well I was on the basketball team, but I was so short I couldn’t stay on there. [Laughter] But anyway and I was in the band.

	W:	Oh, what instrument did you play? U:	Clarinet.

	W:	Okay and you were in the glee club? U:	Yes.

	W:	So now the glee club that means you’re a singer? U:	Yes.

	W:	Are you still singing? U:	In the choir.





W:  Oh okay, can you sing a little bar or two or something? U:  No.

	W:	No? [Laughter] Well she’s not trying to be on American Idol. Thank you very much for talking with me, I really appreciate it.

U:   Thank you, too.



W:  Oh, I almost forget, I like to close my interviews by letting the person that I spoke with make some kind of comment or maybe something about the interview or just a final thought whatever it is and when you finish your thought that will be the end of the interview.

U:   Well it was a surprise, but I enjoyed it and thank you for interviewing me.



Enjoying it. [End of Interview]





	Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, September 1, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019