AAHP 294A; Richardson; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 294A Vonda Richardson African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Natalie Ridgewell on March 5, 2013 1 hour, 59 minutes | 71 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 294A

Interviewee: Vonda Richardson

Interviewer: Natalie Ridgewell and Marna Weston Date: March 5, 2013



	NR:	So I’m just gonna start since we’re all in the car and so agreeable. Natalie Ridgewell and—?

	W:	Marna Weston, I’m quite sure. NR:	And the lovely?

	VR:	Vonda Richardson.



	NR:	And it is March 6, 2013, and we are headed to Marianna. VR:	March 5th.

	NR:	March 5th, thank you. I’m getting ahead of myself. VR:	I’m supposed to be there, not March 6th.

	NR:	It’s March 5th for the record, yes. Thank you for straightening this out, and we are having a lovely drive from Tallahassee to Marianna. Wonderful. But yes, so do you mind telling me a little about yourself? You said you’re from South Georgia?

	VR:	Uh-huh, born and raised in Albany, Georgia. NR:	Alright.

	VR:	And when I was fifteen my family moved to Fort Valley, so that’s home. NR:	I’m from Fort Valley.

	VR:	Are you?



	NR:	Yes!



	VR:	I saw the 4-7-8. NR:	Yes!

	VR:	Yeah, Fort Valley’s home.



	NR:	That is home. Okay, go ahead, where? Tell me, cause I lived there my whole life.







VR:

When did you finish school?

NR:

2000, when did you finish?

VR:

I finished in [19]92.

NR:

Okay, do you know Alex Khoury?

VR:

Yes, he was in my class.

NR:

That’s my cousin. That’s my cousin!

VR:

Okay yeah, he was in my class.

NR:

Yeah, so Chris and Alex and William, my daddy and their daddy—so my uncle—



Khoury’s Menswear and then—I don’t know if you got your prom dress at the



Khoury’s Ladies store downtown. That’s where a bunch of girls used to.

VR:

Okay.

NR:

They don’t have the ladies store anymore, but they still have the men’s’ store and



all the guys get their tuxes there for prom.

VR:

Small world.

NR:

Yes it is.

VR:

[Laughter].

NR:

So you said that you graduated in [19]92.

VR:

I’m sorry, I finished college in [19]92. I finished in [19]88.

NR:

I was about to say, Alex was a little bit—okay.

VR:

Yeah, yeah, yeah.

NR:

So yeah.

VR:

Huh.





	NR:	So, yes, Albany to—cause I was going to ask you about the flood in [19]94 in Albany, but you weren’t there.

	VR:	No, unh-uh. I actually was in Athens; I was in grad school. NR:	Oh wait, another, what is this, an AUGI?

	VR:	University of Georg—



	NR:	Yes, me too. I keep following you! So when were you there? VR:	[19]92 to [19]94.

	NR:	Okay, I was there a little later. I was there in 2006 to 2009. VR:	Okay.

	NR:	Got my masters there.



	VR:	Let me see, let me see, let me see, who would I know? Cause my sisters, I have two sisters, that they’re considerably younger than I am. My baby sister finished high school in [19]98. Did you go to Peach County?

	NR:	Yes!



	VR:	Sheryl Humphrey?



	NR:	Sheryl Yes! She was a cheerleader. VR:	Uh-huh, Golden Girl.

	NR:	Oh, Golden Girl.



	VR:	My sister Stacey was a cheerleader. NR:	Oh, that’s it.

	VR:	But she may have been gone.



	NR:	No, no. I was a Golden Girl! Hold on, yes, yes, she would have been a senior.



That’s right, yes, yes.





	VR:	Yeah, cause she finished in [19]98. NR:	[19]98 yep. Uh-huh.

	VR:	Yeah and she’s here in Tallahassee. NR:	She is?

VR:  Uh-huh.



NR: Where does she work? VR: She works on campus. NR:  Alright.

VR:  She’s in contracts and grants.



	NR:	Oh my God. I’m gonna Facebook her. I’ll be like, “What’s up Gigi?” VR:	Yeah, that is really a small world.

	NR:	It is, yes Fort Valley. So how old were you when you moved there? VR:	I was fifteen.

	NR:	Okay.



	VR:	I was in tenth grade. I moved there in tenth grade. Sheryl was in kindergarten when she, she was just starting out and my middle sister Stacey, was in, she was second grade.

	NR:	What year did Stacey graduate? VR:	[19]96.

	NR:	She would have, okay, she would have known some other people that [19]96… alright, they were before I think I got into high school. Alright, so yes, we’re two Fort Valley girls.

	VR:	Yeah! [Laughter]. That’s amazing.





	NR:	Is your family still there? VR:	My mom’s still there.

	NR:	Okay.



	VR:	Cause she worked at Fort Valley, and she retired about five, six years ago. NR:	Now what’s her name?

	VR:	Barbara Humphrey.



	NR:	Okay, I know my daddy’s going to know her. Did you know my dad, James Khoury? He was the county commissioner for a while.

	VR:	I knew of him, you know being a child, I knew of him.



	NR:	So have you been there lately? The college has done a lot of things, expanding their ag program.

	VR:	Uh-huh. I was actually home not too long ago—last month sometime? I think. It was after Christmas. I was over there Christmas, but I’ve been there since then. Cause we’re right, I can see campus from my house, we’re off Willow Lake.

	NR:	Okay, so you’re over there. VR:	Yeah. It has grown.

	NR:	Well that’s awesome. So we are Peach County alum. W:	And Bulldogs.

	NR:	And Bulldogs, yes. VR:	[Laughter].

	NR:	So, we went to Athens and over at GGA, and finished there what [19]94?



	VR:	Well actually I left there in [19]94, finished my coursework, and then took the job down here in [19]95.





	NR:	Okay.



	VR:	Finished up, I finished up down here, so I actually finished in [19]96—got my degree conferred in [19]96.

	NR:	And what did you get your degree in? VR:	Agriculture economics.

	NR:	Alright. That is crazy. I’ve got a Georgia Peach in the car with me. So well I mean, cause I know exactly where you grew up and, well for at least for when you were a teenager, and then I know Athens, and then here, but I’m not going to pretend or assume. So tell me a little about what drew you here as to opposed to staying in Georgia, or was it just the job opportunity?

VR:  It was the job. And actually since cause I was an agriculture major, ag-econ, and one of things when I left college I said, “well I know”—I wasn’t sure what I wanted to do, but I knew I didn’t want to do production-ag.

	NR:	Okay.



	VR:	And so when this position came open—my uncle worked down here and so he told me about it and I came up to interview. And I just knew I bombed the interview, cause I wasn’t really interested. “This is not what I want to do.” But my mom said, “Girl, you better take that job.”

	W:	You want to go up to the interstate up here?



	VR:	Well I was just going to go on, we’ll be further down if I just go down here. W:	Okay. Wait to Quincy? Come and pull up there?

	VR:	Well the one that’s right here, the midway. W:	Okay, yeah.





	VR:	It’s a couple of miles, yeah.



	W:	I ain’t trying to drive from the backseat.



	VR:	Oh no that’s okay. I actually just live on this side of town. And we’ll be over there in a minute.

	W:	So do I. Back over off Apple Yard, near there.



	VR:	Okay, okay. But my mom told me, “Girl, you better take that job.” And so I got started. I said I didn’t plan to be at FAMU for more than six months. I said, “I’m going to get another job. This is just going to be holded.” Been here 17 years.

	NR:	That’s awesome.



	VR:	And I love extension. Never thought I would.



	NR:	So you’ve been the extension specialist the whole time?



	VR:	Well I started out on a grant as a farm management specialist, and I actually was responsible for two counties. And what we would do, we’d go into the counties and work with farmers with record keeping, financial management. And then from that I moved from the field person to the project coordinator. And then from project coordinator I became an extension specialist in marketing. And so I’ve been the extension marketing specialist since 2003, until they appointed me this past August as interim extension director.

	NR:	Oh! You moving along up.



	VR:	Yeah. No ag background—I mean I didn’t come from the farm of course, I mean rural area.

	NR:	Yes.





	VR:	But my grandfather owned a farm in middle Georgia over in Willow County, Georgia. And that’s the extent of my farming background prior to work.

	NR:	Now what drew you though to it in college? VR:	Well I wanted to major in business.

	NR:	Okay.



	VR:	And Mary Kennel from Fort Valley had a recruitment little thing at Peach County.



And so she was talking to me about what I wanted to do and I told her, “Well I want to go into business administration or accounting.” And she would say, “Well you know agriculture economics, that degree is an applied business degree. You know it would make you more marketable. You have an expanded array of companies that you could possibly work for.” I said, “Okay, well I’ll try it out.” I looked at it and they offered me a scholarship, so I took it, and I really liked it. I mean I enjoy economics. The coursework was interesting to me, but here again even though we had courses in crop science and animal science, I wasn’t drawn to that. I really wanted to focus on natural resources or something in community resource development. And so that’s where my head was going prior to coming, and then that’s what my concentration was at UGA, was more along the—

	NR:	Community resources. VR:	Yeah or natural resources. NR:	Okay.

	VR:	Cause my thesis was actually—I didn’t do, what do you call it? It wasn’t an academic type thing; it wasn’t pure research. It was more applied and it was used, it was before when they were trying to, they were doing some kind of





infrastructure in and around Athens in Oconee County. And they wanted to see what would be the impact if they put in that expressway. And so some of my work went toward that.

	NR:	Oh!



	NR:	So it was more of an applied application; something applied to what I was doing, and so that was where I was headed. But this job turned me into production ag. And at first I thought, I said, “Oh goodness, I don’t know anything about farming. I’m a woman. These farmers are going to laugh at me.” But they actually received me well. And I was able to kind of just learn as I went along. One thing I found out, I’m thinking, when I got to the job, I said, “Well, I know I’m going to have a huge learning curve.” But when I got here I said, “Wait a minute now.” When I went out and go and visit farmers and they would know about the program and then some of them wouldn’t. I said, “Wait a minute now. Now was the person who was in this position before me, were they actually doing this work?” So really what I said instead of trying to pick up where they left off, I just was going to start from ground zero. Wherever they were and see what their concerns were, what some of their needs were as far as: teach them how to manage their records, what type of strategies to use. Which worked for a while, but you really don’t, I won’t say you don’t seem to get anywhere, but I wasn’t able to kind of capture it for them to actually make a change. And that’s when I met Glyen. Glyen was working with USDA and he was in Jefferson County, where I was and so he and I would go to lunch and we would talk about the issues that





small farmers were having. And he had just started the New North Florida Cooperative.

	NR:	So what kind of issues do you think that y’all both kind of recognized or talked about?

	VR:	Well there wasn’t a lot of profitable markets that small farmers could really tap into. They were for the most part, the ones that were growing fruits and vegetables, they were resigned to doing road side stands or taking it to Thomasville. It’s just nothing that they could really say that that was theirs and that we could build from the ground up.

	NR:	Thomasville is about forty minutes, fifty minutes? VR:	About thirty, thirty, forty minutes depending.

	NR:	That’s where my grandma’s from. VR:	Okay, okay.

	NR:	I got connections everywhere girl. [Laughter]



	VR:	And so he, like I said, he had started—and he’ll tell you when we get over there—that he had the same issues that he was facing working with farmers with the NRCS programs. And so he was working with the lady that was working with the Federation of Southern Cooperatives. And they had a credit union in Jackson County. And so she was telling him that there was an old organization that was the North Florida Cooperative. And so he thought it may be a way for him to revive that old organization. But he was saying that every time they had a meeting it would always be a different group of people. And so he said, “Just scratch that, we’ll just start over.” And so he and a couple of farmers, couple





other people that worked with him, establish the New North Florida Cooperative. And so, like I said, he had already established that and he had already begun working with the food director here in Gadsden County. I think they had done a pile up with strawberries prior to me coming on. Now, during this time he was also working with a colleague of mine, who had Jackson County. She was doing the same thing that I was doing in Jefferson over in Jackson and Wakulla Counties. Jackson, Gadsden, and Wakulla Counties. But she left. From time to time she would come over to my area because we were supposed to take pictures of us working. But how can I take pictures when I’m in the picture?

	NR:	[Laughter].



	VR:	And so I would go over there and take pictures of her and she would come on my end. And so that’s how I got to know Glyen and what they were doing. And so I would go to a lot of their functions. They would have farmer meetings, and festivals, and things like that. And so he moved. He took a DC position in Jefferson. And so that’s when he and I started working together, working with farmers over on that side. Cause part of my job was to promote USDA programs as well. And so we just kind of developed a working relationship around that. And so when Sophia, who was my colleague, left, he and I—I started doing more just kind of helping him out with the Farm to School program. I think they had started talking with Gadsden County, working with the fresh collards. And so I kind of looked at using the food buying guy, just kind work it through the numbers and seeing. We worked pricing, we worked how to develop the serving sizes, and all





that kind of stuff. So those were the kinds of things I initially kind of worked with them on at first.

	NR:	So I noticed that they cleaned and chopped and bagged the collards. So you’re the one that kind of helped them make those proportion sizes?

	VR:	Well just helped with the calculations so they—



	NR:	“Could this bag would be so many servings for the kids?” Is that?



	VR:	Right, right, right. Based on what the food service guy said that for a pound of greens, fresh greens …

	NR:	Is how many cooked greens.



	VR:	Right, right. So I did that from just pure number stand point. And then they worked with the schools and actually verified, kind of shrewd up what that number would be. And so they were able to use that to kind of help with developing pricing. You know how when they price the products, either getting out of the field for the farmers as well as what kind of pricing structure they would have for the schools.

	NR:	So before, working with Glyen, did you do any work in Athens or anything with schools before?

	VR:	Unh-uh, unh-uh. Actually Glyen—and I’ll go on record to saying that his work was probably the first in the country. And he’ll tell you too that when he was working, the federation, the USDA Ag Marketing Service I guess come up with the idea to see if it was feasible for small-scale farmers to sell their local [inaudible: 16:33].

But I don’t know where the idea came from, but it was a project that the federation had. They brought Glyen in—well Glyen happened to go to a meeting





where they were talking about it and it just so happens that at that meeting the food director from Gadsden County was at that meeting. And so he introduced himself to her and she asked him to come in, just, “Come and see me when you get a chance.” And so that’s how their relationship started. Now the project in Georgia never really got off the ground. But Glyen said that they made one mistake. They gave him a copy of the proposal they had written. And it had the person, the contact person at USDA in Washington’s information on there. So he said he stopped in Macon, cause the meeting was in Atlanta. He stopped in Macon and called them.

	NR:	[Laughter].



	VR:	And so they told him, “Well put a small project together and we’ll see if we can fund it.”

	NR:	Alright.



	VR:	And that’s basically how most of it started. NR:	Good for him.

	VR:	And that was in [19]9…had to be [19]95, cause Sophia was working with him then. Had to be [19]95. Between [19]95 and [19]96. Early [19]96.

	NR:	So he got it. He got a grant. What was it, 40,000? VR:	Forty-four thousand dollars.

	NR:	Oh forty-four.



	VR:	Forty-four, forty-two, something like that.



	NR:	Good for him for being observant. [Laughter].





	VR:	Oh, he’s a character now. He’s very—I call him nosy. He said he’s intuitive. I said, “Okay, alright, alright.”

	NR:	So tell me, I mean so this is back in the [19]90s, it started out, I mean how— obviously—I think it’s been successful. What do you think?

	VR:	It has. A lot of the work that he’s done to bring—because it wasn’t called Farm to School then.

	NR:	Oh yeah, that didn’t happen till—



	VR:	We initially called it school marketing, school lunch marketing initiative. NR:	Yeah that didn’t happen till 2000.

	VR:	Right. I think a lot of entities have—Glyen was—he worked real close with the Farm to School network when they were developing. Because Marion Cow, when she was working with the community food security coalition before they established the Farm to School network, she actually came down and visited with us several days. And so I think a lot of their development, they got a lot of that from coming and visiting Glyen and seeing how he did things, and what some of the needs from an advocacy standpoint.

	NR:	Right.



	VR:	Because a lot of what they do is more advocacy than on the ground. What we found that farm-school takes—it can be considered a lot of things. And most people look at it from the child’s standpoint, either through nutrition education or farm tours, or school gardens. Very few are actually looking at whether or not small-scale farmers, you’re connecting the farmers with those schools. Cause it’s hard; it’s really, really hard to do.





	NR:	And why would you say so?



	VR:	Well, part of it is on the farmer, and a lot of the farmers are not at a level where they could facilitate a commercial market. And then farmers are, Imma use your word, an interesting bunch.

	NR:	[Laughter].



	VR:	They want to be in when they want to be in, and when they want to be out, they want to be out. And so but when you’re dealing with a market, a consistent market, those farmers are going to have to change what they’ve been doing.

Take for instance the fact that schools run between August and May. That means that farmers will have to start planting to begin selling in August, which is typically not, it’s out of season for them. So it was kind of difficult getting farmers to change and it’s still hard to get them to change. For a number of those years between August, the month of August and September, Glyen had to network with a large commercial grower. There’s some larger growers over in the Mochary, Lake Park area to kind of pull a product from them until the small farmers.

	NR:	So I think the Pedro family, is that one of the ones I saw that made connections with them? I think near Miami, or no?

	VR:	You’re talking about Pero farms.



	NR:	Oh Pero, excuse me, not Pedro. Pero, yes, is that one of the larger ones you’re talking about or no?

	VR:	No, no, he actually didn’t start working with Pero farms until a couple years ago trying to work through the Miami Dade School system.

	NR:	Okay.





	VR:	Because Miami Dade is so big, Glyen couldn’t possibly do that many schools. So they were trying to work through some existing produce providers who are already supplying the schools. But these were, I’m trying to think, I know the original family left greens. Greens R Us in Moultrie? Glyen can verify the name, but it was an older couple that ran it, and they sold it to Jody Hart. So he initially bought greens from Jody and lately he’s been working with Billy Herndon out of Lake Park. But I probably say off and on probably from maybe the last five years or so, he’s worked with them. But he has about two hundred and something acres at the co-op site that he owns. And so he’s been able to have farmers to grow products there on site to be able to meet that August-September deadline as well. But he also works—there’s a farmer over there in Georgia. He’s probably the only one that’s been with us the longest and he’s kind of modified his production practices to meet the school market.

	NR:	And this is a farmer in Georgia you say?



	VR:	And he’s right over the line across from Havana. NR:	Georgia folk, you hear that?

	VR:	[Laughter]. He went to Fort Valley too. NR:	Of course he did! Of course he did.

	VR:	He actually was in school with my mom, my mom and dad. NR:	Okay now, you don’t have to but, when did they?

	VR:	They were at Fort Valley and they finished in [19]69.



	NR:	Okay, alright. So my dad was before then. He went there but it was still Fort Valley—





	VR:	College.



	NR:	High.



	VR:	Oh.



	NR:	No, the high school. VR:	Oh okay.

	NR:	So, I mean my dad is a little bit older than that.



	VR:	But he went to Fort Valley State College, is that what you were saying? NR:	Yeah, and they were at Fort Valley State College when I was there too.

	NR:	Yeah okay, now at the university. Ah, so there’s a little Fort Valley in everybody! [Laughter]. Well, so I know that you’ve been working with, with Glyen—the New North Florida Farmers—but is it correct that officially FAMU doesn’t have a partnership with them still?

	VR:	Yeah, we still, well it was never an official partnership. It was basically a collaborative working relationship between my extension program and Glyen. So what basically since my area, I was targeted to look at developing or evaluating market opportunities for small farmers.

	NR:	Right.



	VR:	This was one, this was the flagship of my program. NR:	Yes.

	VR:	And so we would provide the educational support for farmers, teach them the business side of it: how to either establish their farms from a record-keeping financial management standpoint, marketing strategies, production—the whole educational piece. And so when we used a lot of method—what do you call it? A





demonstration model in order to work with farmers where they can put a crop in and then we can support them with all this training, but at the same time when that product is grown, they’ll have a ready-made market that they can sell to. And so it kind of extended what I could do from the educational standpoint, where farmers could—while they were learning—they could make money at the same time. And so that’s how we kind of worked together in a collaborative partnership.

NR:  So have you been able to do any kind of the same extension work with any other farmers and apply what you’ve learned, or have you mainly focused with the New North Florida?

	VR:	Let’s see. Because my supervisor just asked the same question. “Why do you just work the co-op?” I don’t just work with the co-op [Laughter]. The co-op just happened to be a vehicle that I could use to help farmers in general.

	NR:	Right.



	VR:	I was able to network through Glyen then to identify—they would have farmers— because farmers would come to me, but farmers would also go to them. And so a lot of clientele that would come to them that needed the extension educational piece, we built programming around that. And so it was a win-win for both of us: for me to establish a clientele, as well as to be able to, for people that didn’t come directly to them, that I could refer those farmers to Glyen for whatever was beyond the education, whatever training we were doing.

	NR:	Right, and so then those farmers that come, do they become a part of the New North Florida Cooperative, or did they just?





	VR:	Some of them did. One thing about the co-op, you don’t have to be a member in order to participate in whatever they’re doing or receiving in the services. That was something that Glyen established early on, that he wasn’t going to take dues from people. He was going to treat it as if it’s a service co-op.

	NR:	Is it the same now?



	VR:	Yeah, it’s the same now. The Florida Statutes only requires I think it’s three or four people to be chartered, or incorporated as a farmers’ cooperative, and so he just left it at that four. And that way it helps with decision making, because that’s one of the pitfalls that African Americans have in group-type situations. A co-op is not the best structure in my opinion for African Americans. We just don’t like to work together for some reason. There are co-ops that have been in existence forty-fifty years, and for them to have been in existence that long they should be a lot farther along than they are. Why is that? It’s got to be a cultural barrier in there. We haven’t studied it, but Glyen and I said, “We going to write us a book on all of our experiences.” And he said, “The Jessie Jacksons and the Al Sharptons are going to come out. They gonna be mad with us.”

	NR:	[Laughter].



	VR:	“But we going to tell it like it is.” NR:	You gotta tell the story.

	VR:	We’re going to tell it. Because, to be honest with you, most of the people that were against Glyen have been Black. Most of the ones that have helped him, and helped the co-op, have been White. And he’ll tell you that.





	NR:	Now when you say people, do you mean farmers or community members or both?

	VR:	Farmers, community people, university people, USDA people, all the way. All the way from the grassroots, all the way up to the government. Yep, and the non- profit area.

	NR:	And would you like to take a gander as to why you think that?



	VR:	It’s a cultural barrier. There’s something, something…there’s something wrong with us. It’s something within the Black community. I don’t know what it is, but it’s something. And I actually, maybe getting away from Farm to School.

	NR:	No no.



	VR:	And I fought it. Glyen was saying, “Well, Vonda you know. I really, I’ve seen this.” Because he’s older than I am. And I said, “Glyen, it can’t be, it can’t be.” But it’s—my eyes have really been open to what we as Black people do to each other. It’s awful, it’s awful. And I’ve seen it with my own at FAMU. It’s just awful.

	NR:	Now do you think that cultural barrier at all has been somewhat diminished with working with schools that people can see that, because it’s grown, right?

	VR:	It’s made them more jealous. NR:	Really?

	VR:	The 1890s had an opportunity back in 2002, between 2002, 2005. We had $1.5 million from USDA to have an opportunity to take Farm to School and really push it and let it be something that was a flagship for the 1890s. They basically balked at it.

	NR:	And who do you mean by, “They baulked at it?”





	VR:	Nobody wanted to do it. I actually was over the fruit and vegetable side. I was coordinating the fruit and vegetable side. And so we met in—were we in Atlanta? Somewhere. And there was a vote that you had people that pitched ideas what would be the whole system program. We pitched ideas and everybody there voted that we would do Farm to School as a regional marketing project. The federation wasn’t there, they got wind of it, and they said “no.” And so it ended up having, the fruit side had a regional marketing model that the federation was responsible for, and then I was coordinating the Farm to School. But at the same time, the contacts from the other universities, they wouldn’t work. Very few of them worked with me; very few of them followed through. We had the opportunity then and they didn’t embrace it. None of this is on the record because they would never admit to it, but it was a lot of just talk. “We don’t want to do this.” I didn’t have a PhD; “Why is she trying, why is she directing everything? I’m a PhD. She just has a masters.” We were trying to work for our community clientele, but it’s that kind of stuff that goes on with us. And then Tuskegee, in Alabama, had— they called to Washington—had the guy at ag marketing service that actually worked with us came down and he realized that they were trying to do the same thing. He was like, “Well why don’t y’all go and talk with Glyen, work with Glyen and Vonda down in Florida?” They said, “No.” They paid a consultant out of New York City and the consultant ended up calling me.

	NR:	Ah! [Laughter]. Sorry, I know you’re the woman to know, so I came to you. VR:	I mean it’s crazy, crazy.

	NR:	I know knowledge and wisdom when I see it.





	VR:	It took me a while to really, really accept it. But I said, “But you know, I was always taught ‘to whom much is given, much is required.” And so I said, “Well, I’ve been given something. I don’t know if it’s just my work ethic and what I know; no matter what I do I’m not going to beg people, but I’m going to create the opportunity and make sure that it can be accessible to them. But it’s up to them to take advantage of it.” And that’s all I can do. That’s all I can do. Glyen and I have tried to do as much as we could to develop a model that the small guy can actually facilitate—that it means for the small guys, every little guy is not going to be able to sell directly to a school district. Especially now. Because once Farm to School got notoriety, the big boys saw that, “Wait a minute, we can’t have them come in there taking our market share.” And so now there are a lot of regulations, lot of rules that were already on the books, but they weren’t really enforced. But now we’ve got the regulations, the food safety issues, all these things now that really—small farmers, it really be too expensive for them to even try to. So here again, we let an opportunity kind of slip by without the small farmers being able to get their foot hold. But, at the same time is what I told Glyen, “The model that we’re using, because we have a track-record and we know we can’t sell to every school district, but we know how to find our place, meaning the place for the small farmers.”

	NR:	Your kind of niche.



VR:  “And be able to hold onto it and help those guys facilitate it.” In a lot of cases for the small-scale guys, they would have to go through an intermediary. And Glyen has positioned the New North Florida Cooperative to kind of either be that





intermediary or help other entities who would be willing to—that could get the resources and have the wherewithal to be an intermediary. There hasn’t been one to pop up yet, but like I told Glyen, I said, “Well, the opportunity is there. It’s just a matter for them, they want to take advantage of it, they can.”

	NR:	So I wanted to ask you about the regulations that you said are now being enforced. So isn’t the Farm to School movement part of the USDA? A subset?

	VR:	Uh, yes. Yes and no. NR:	Okay.

	VR:	It started out with ag-marketing service and then it went nonprofit. And then once the Farm to School network built this momentum and then they were starting to, having people to go and advocate for funding, then USDA got back in it.

	NR:	Ah. Because I had read somewhere I thought the USDA was trying to make it so that these regulations weren’t inhibiting small farmers. But you said that they can’t afford to do all of this on a small-scale; it’s not cost effective. So is that happening or not really? Are they trying to make it easier for these small farmers to get in or?

	VR:	They have created the opportunity and from a government entity standpoint, that’s all they can do. They have changed the rules for the schools to be able to increase consumption. So for us, in our opinion, that was the Holy Grail because then the school districts, they were required to increase consumption, meaning they have to buy more. At the same time, which I think is outside of USDA’s control, because the big boys have lobbying interests as well, so when they lobby for whatever, to put these new rules in place, or to put pressure to enforce these





rules, they may say, “Well you know we don’t know where this food is coming from. Do these farmers have records and things?”

	NR:	Oversight.



	VR:	Yeah, all that kind of stuff. And so, when they start putting those questions in schools’ minds, well the schools were saying, “Well you know, let me back off this; let me direct everything to go through whoever has my full contract.” Which is typically a corporation. And so they can dictate, “Okay well you need a third- party audit. You need gap certification.” Those kinds of things that they will put into place, which is for the safety of the kids who are eating it.

	NR:	Right.



	VR:	But at the same time, it can be, from a systems standpoint, problematic or prohibitive for your run-of-the-mill, everyday farm.

	VR:	That’s what I was wanting to ask. So I’ve read a little bit about this, so usually like, Cisco for example, would have the contract and they would outsource it, so how do farmers like this even get in? Because I know that it has to be the competitive bidding right? They talk about the value of it. So like buying tomatoes from this person versus that, it has to be competitive. And I read that some places are saying that it’s not just cost. They’re trying to say that, “Well if it’s local or if it’s healthier, you can add that into it.” So it’s saying, “That even though this one’s cheaper, it’s better for this community.” They’re trying to add that into the value-added model?

	VR:	Right, right. Some of the school district bids would have that incorporated, they call it geographic preference, stuff like that.





	NR:	Exactly, there you go.



	VR:	But it still may not help the small farmer, because see also a farmer has to realize that when you’re bidding, these are produce contracts, so these schools need this product—you can’t just bid on one product. You’ve got to bid for their whole produce contract. So means that either would have to provide all the products they need or be able to source it. Those farmers are not able to do that.

	NR:	So when they started doing the collards then, how did they get that bid? They had to then outsource—

	VR:	Never had a bid. Never had a bid. That’s what I told you; our model works. It works, because you have to go within the regulations.

	NR:	Tell me how it works then. You got my ears now girl.



	VR:	I hope I can do justice to it. Glyen, he can very easily…but you’ve got to remember now, when we started it was before they started enforcing all the rules.

	NR:	Oh I know.



	VR:	And the school districts could basically buy, if somebody came up to them, they could buy the product without having to bid or get a quote. It was on the books, but it wasn’t being enforced. And so Glyen used that time to actually build a good reputation. So that when the rules changed, he could always go back on, well call this food director and she can vouch for consistency, quality of product. Okay, once they started enforcing the rules, some school districts, they would probably get quotes for a fresh whoop, let me back up. Oh gosh, there’s so many different ways because different states have different ways of going about it. In the state





of Alabama, they have a state produce bid. And so how we approached that— and when they have a state bid that means that a lot of the school districts can’t buy—if something was on the bid, the school districts couldn’t buy from another vendor. They would have to, they would have to purchase it from the vendor who has that contract.

	NR:	So they said like this person does all the peaches, and you have to get peaches or you don’t get peaches at your school?

	VR:	From them. NR:	Okay.

	VR:	So we looked what was on the state bid and we looked at products that was economical for the farmers to grow and things that Glyen could process and sell, and what he could make a profit that wasn’t on that bid. And fresh, leafy greens was not on there. You had canned, you had frozen. So you looked for those products. Now that’s in Alabama.

	NR:	So smart.



	VR:	In Florida, they left it up to the individual school district. So whatever those rules were for that particular school district. Now, they also had on the record, they call—what is it called?—a minimum purchase threshold.

	NR:	Okay.



	VR:	I think that’s what they call it. But basically, it’s up to a certain amount a school district could buy a product, up to a certain dollar value, without a bid.

	NR:	Oh, without a bid.



	VR:	Without a bid.





	NR:	Oh okay.



	VR:	This was all before these changes they made now.



	NR:	Can you just ballpark about what time that would be the change? VR:	That change has probably been within the last three years.

	NR:	Oh wow.



	VR:	Three, four years. Yeah, because in Florida, the threshold, the USDA their federal threshold is $100,000. In Florida it’s $50,000, or was it 25? It was 25[000] initially, they increased it to 50,000. In Alabama it was 7,500, then it went up to 15,000. Now I think in Mississippi and some couple other places it was like 5,000. So the state could impose a threshold that was lower than USDA.

NR:  Now again is that for like, for example for the leafy greens that you sold for, so like the 25[000] and now 50,000, that’s just the leafy greens or that’s all things that you do?

VR: That is per product. NR:  Per product, okay.

	VR:	I think it’s per product. It’s either per product or per vendor. I think it’s per product and per vendor, so meaning that say in Leon County, Glyen could sell up to—at that time it was 25,000—up to 25,000 of product without a bid. So the food director in Leon County, when he got the 25[000] he basically had them to order. He took that 25,000 divided over the 8-9 months that the schools would serve and he basically so he wouldn’t go over that threshold. And so when we worked with food directors, cause Glyen goes and we negotiate directly with the food





director. And so we develop a relationship with him or her, and that’s how we learn how to work within the rules that are already on the books.

	NR:	Yes, and like you said it’s per school district, so this district does this way, and that district does another.

	VR:	Right. In some states, like Florida, they leave it up to the school district. I mean they do have some, they have the federal policies that everybody has to follow, and then you have some state policies. But Florida is not as stringent once it gets down to the district level as, say, in Alabama is. Like with their statewide bid.

	NR:	Y’all work with Georgia at all?



	VR:	We did work with Georgia at one time but there was a time when—what was the guy? The one that’s been the ag commissioner that was in there for so long— Tommy Erevan. We went to the second Farm to School conference at Kenyon College and there was a lady from Georgia. And we were asking her about Farm to School, and she was like, well she had heard that the word had come down to her that the people in the Department of Ag said, “The Farm to School will not come to Georgia, so don’t even ask.”

	NR:	Ooh.



	VR:	So I don’t know what happened, but when Black came in, I think they kind of, it became more of a, I guess from the Department of Ag, from the state level. But we had been working with school districts in Georgia for years. We worked in Albany for a number of years.

	NR:	Your hometown?





	VR:	Mm-hm. And here again, we don’t worry about going at the state level, we go directly to that county and work with that school, that child nutrition director.

	NR:	Yeah, with the food director.



	VR:	Uh-huh, that’s who we work directly with. Because they’re the ones, a lot of them know their rules and regulations; they know what they can and cannot do. And we work within what they have. Now, for those states we developed another strategy. Like in Alabama, when their minimum threshold was $7,500, which is not a lot of money, but if you can get ten school districts in a cluster, that’s

$75,000. And you get them to make the product around the same time, so you go in and you do a mass delivery. So there are a lot of strategies that you can incorporate that can make a small school district cost effective for a small farmer. You can either find some surrounding school districts where they can menu them together so your volume is higher. Or you can get the school district— especially if it’s either a highly minority population—they can menu the item a lot more frequently.

	NR:	And why would you say that?



	VR:	Because they may eat it more than say a more urban, like with the leafy greens.



The more rural it is, and probably the higher of concentration of Blacks, the higher chances that they will eat those—cause that’s the food that they’re eating at home.

	NR:	So I guess I just want to maybe talk about if you can speak a little bit about where you grew up, but the types of food that they’re eating, like collards, do you





think this speaks to a culture of, and that’s why they’re able to market it versus of the same collards in, I’m going to say New Mexico? I mean it might not—

	VR:	Right, right, right. You want to look at what culturally the majority, where you can target a significant population with a particular product.

	NR:	So I’m just saying, did you have that in your mind at all when you saw that—I mean I’m sure there are other products. I’m going to be, like maybe poblano peppers. That wasn’t on the list.

	VR:	Right.



	NR:	The bidding, but who’s going to eat that here? I mean did you all kind of think about that?

	VR:	That was one of the, I guess, one of the criteria for deciding on those particular products. Like I said, Glyen was trying, he was trying to find a product that typically we eat in the South and it may not necessarily be racial.

	NR:	Oh it’s Southern. VR:	But it’s Southern. NR:	Oh yes. [Laughter].

	VR:	And so, and then you look at the menus and you don’t see a lot of that on school menus. I mean you see the canned turnips, things like that, but not in fresh form. And so he was saying that culturally this is what they eat at home. And if it’s prepared appropriately and it tastes good, they’ll eat it in schools. And then not to mention it’s high in vitamin, the high nutritional value.





	NR:	Now, here we go, now talking about prepared appropriately. Well I completely agree. Did y’all help, like in any part of those extensions specialist work that you do, do you help the food service, the actual preparers, because I know that some people said that now I mean they’re not even trained chefs, if they know how to again, open a can and—

	VR:	Heat and serve.



	NR:	Heat and serve, exactly. So has that been something?



	VR:	Yep, yeah we, we actually now, I utilize the family consumer science specialist to kind of look at recipes for different products, because now with the changing in the nutritional guidelines, they’re wanting more orange and green products. And so we’re looking at other products other than the greens and the sweet potatoes to offer the schools. And so we looked to them to look at how we can prepare butternut squash, other ways that we can prepare the sweet potatoes, and the green beans, and other products.

	NR:	So I’m saying for example they might give you a recipe for say butternut soup, so how then how do you teach these people in the cafeteria who may have never prepared that to cook it?

	VR:	We have in the past. We haven’t done this extensively because a lot of times if we develop a recipe, we can just pass it on to the food director, and she’ll pass it onto her staff, and then she’ll work with them on that. We have worked directly with the schools and the people who are preparing it to develop recipes as well, that can be shared with other districts. Like the first recipe that we shared for the collards, actually one of the cafeteria managers at the high school in Havana in





Gadsden County developed a recipe that fit USDA guidelines, as far salt and fat and all that stuff. And so they developed it and we took it in, we shared it with other school districts who may not, who would have wanted a recipe that, that without having to put the hams and all that stuff in it. And so, we can use the university people to do that, but we’ve also, when I first started working with them I didn’t use our family consumer science person. It was a totally different person, and so actually, initially, I didn’t think to utilize her. I don’t know why, but I just didn’t think to utilize her.

	NR:	You can’t think of everything now [Laughter].



VR:  Yeah and so we always worked with whoever we were working with at the time. We had some really, really good food directors that helped navigate us through this. It’s a really, really nice ladies.

NR:  So go back, so when you do directly work with the high school to develop like a recipe, I mean how do you, can you tell me a little bit more about that, how that might happen?

	VR:	Well in that particular case Mr. McGry just developed it. He— NR:	Now who was he?

	VR:	He was a cafeteria manager. NR:	Okay, so he just said alright?

	VR:	He developed it, and it worked well for his students and they shared it within the district. And then the food director said, “Well, here Mr. McGry developed the recipe, so if you have any other schools that are interested in a USDA-approved recipe, here you all can use it.” Now over here in Dothan, that food director has a





few of her cafeteria managers that she would pull together and they come up with, they test products out. And a lot of schools do that, like a lot of the larger schools would have their dieticians actually test the products. They’ll prepare them a lot of different ways and then they’ll analyze the nutritional content.

	NR:	And where did you say this is, this is Dalton?



	VR:	Dothan—Dothan, Alabama. And so in that case, in one of the times we worked with her, she has her own little group and they would figure out what’s the best way to prepare a product for their schools. And if they share it with us, we go and work, we’re introduced to a new school district that’s not familiar with that product. You can either call Tanya at Dothan city schools and she can relay. Or we may have a recipe—she may have given it to us, or told us, “Well, this is how you can be prepared.” Like with the sweet potato sticks. We initially were promoting them as fries, in replacing the white potato fries.

	NR:	Right.



	VR:	Well they started taking a lot of the fryers out of the school districts, out of the schools. So we had one, I’m trying to think—who did it? It may have been Gadsden County again; they started steaming them. And so they would basically menu it at, they would prepare it as if it’s a steam vegetable like you steam carrots. They steamed the sweet potatoes.

	NR:	Now how did that go over?



	VR:	Went over well; it goes over well.



	NR:	Now then, we’re talking about going over well, doing well. Are we talking about consumption?





	VR:	Right, right.



NR:  Do you measure how much goes in the trash versus or do you ask them like, “Kids you ate this today.” Do you give surveys? How do you judge if it’s doing well?

VR:  If the school districts keep buying it. Our approach is not very scientific and I’m saying that coming from a university, because I can’t do everything.

	NR:	Oh no.



	VR:	And here again, you got to get buy in from those people who, like our nutritionist, our food science people could have really bought in on that, on what I was doing to kind of add capacity, but they didn’t. And so I couldn’t do everything. So my accountability was evaluating market opportunities and training the farmers in doing that. And then I would evaluate how well they accepted the training, how well they’re adopting the practices. So that’s basically where…

	NR:	Yours’ ends.



	VR:	Where mine ended.



	NR:	You create the opportunity. VR:	Right, right.

	NR:	But you don’t really assess once it’s established.



	VR:	Well we don’t assess to the extent that you were speaking of. We’ve done for some schools, because the school district wanted it, to see. We’ve done some surveys, you know we’ll do taste testing.

	NR:	Right.





	VR:	To see how well the kids, but that’s not the focus, not necessarily the focus of what we do. If the school districts continue to buy it, then we say that, “Okay, obviously, it’s going over well.” And we started out at one time measuring increasing consumption, but we kind of got away with it because at that time it was just me and Glyen. He couldn’t do everything. And I was fighting battles and he was fighting battles. So we just kept the opportunity there, and made sure that the farmers were, the ones that were working with us, were trained and—

	NR:	Coming from again a university perspective, a lot of eager beaver PhD students want to do research. Do you think that these schools would be open to doing some of those like evaluative—

	VR:	Uh-huh, I think they will. Uh-huh, because it really, it helps them too. It helps them sell to their own, either to the board of commissioners or even the super intendant. With school food service, that’s the only program in the schools where they have to be self-sufficient. With the exception of the county paying the food director’s salary, everybody else’s salaries paid out of the sales.

	NR:	Oh, there you go.



	VR:	All the food is purchased with the money that’s made, or the reimbursement, the money that they get back from the federal government. They are the only entity within the educational system that has to be self-supported, because even they give money to athletics. It may not be as much, but they give money, they give the county money to athletics. But the county gives very little for the food service program. If they do, the food director may be county-funded.





	NR:	So I know that we’ve talked about sweet potatoes, collards, butternut squash, what else? And you said strawberries were at the beginning.

	VR:	Yeah, the first pilot that they did was strawberries. We do strawberries seasonally.

	NR:	In spring, right.



	VR:	Lake watermelon in August and September. We’ve done it in the past. NR:	But I’m saying—

	VR:	Blackberries. NR:	Oh really?

	VR:	Uh-huh.



	NR:	Yum.



	VR:	Well they typically, because blackberries in this area, they’re harvested in the summertime, so they were really frozen and in Gadsden County they would make a black bit--we called it in Georgia, we called it a cobbler. They call it doobie.

	NR:	Doobie? VR:	Uh-huh.

	NR:	Okay.



	VR:	Whereas here they take the dough and they drop it in there, so you have, it’s almost like dumplings. Yeah, they call it a doobie here. I had never heard of a doobie until I [inaudible: 59:32].

	NR:	Yeah I know about cobblers and I know about crisps, and about pies. I ain’t never heard of a doobie.





	VR:	A doobie, yeah. And so blackberries, we were working with one of my colleagues who was an animal science specialist. We even did one pilot with goat meat.

	NR:	Really?



	VR:	With ground goat. NR:	How did that go?

	VR:	It went over well, but the goat meat was just too expensive for the school to buy.



You know meats, some school districts in the Northeast have been successful with meats. But it’s hard here because meat, they can get the meat a lot cheaper and then you got some crazy regulations when it comes to meat.

	NR:	Yes.



	VR:	But we did one pilot in Gadsden County, where they did a chili. And it was half ground goat meat and half ground beef.

	NR:	Wow.



	VR:	We’ve done all of the leafy greens. We’ve done cabbage before, which is not cost effective. Cabbage is not cost effective.

	NR:	Cabbage is not?



	VR:	Uh-huh. Not for the small guys, because they can buy a fifty pound bag for—oh gosh this was a long time ago; it’s not cost effective for the farmer.

	NR:	Okay.



	VR:	Because they can buy it elsewhere a lot cheaper. NR:	So collards I guess, yes?

	VR:	Collards, collards and turnips are the two major things that Glyen grows. The sweet potatoes, we’ve done green beans. We have to do green beans twice a





year, because in this area we can do green beans between September and November. And then we can do it in the spring between March and April.

	NR:	It’s green bean time then.



	VR:	Right, but we typically would just do it in the fall. We don’t usually do it in the springtime. We’ll do green beans in the fall. Your southern peas will work if you can get a farmer to really look at his actual cost of production. Because a lot of farmers want to get what they can get on the side of the road for a bushel of southern peas, which the schools are not going to pay that. We’ve done some southern peas in Alabama. It’ll work, but we just can’t get the farmers to come down on a price. Because initially it was so costly because they had to pay three, I think it was three dollars, just to have it harvested. So Glyen bought a one role harvester to kind of eliminate that hand harvest cost. But the farmers, they’re used to getting eighteen to twenty to twenty-two to twenty-five dollars a bushel and schools just can’t pay that. We had calculated that it took fifteen pounds of shelled peas to serve what the equivalent of a number ten case would serve. And so if the schools were—say if they were paying sixteen dollars a case—then the fifteen pounds of peas had to be—

	NR:	Sixteen or less.



	VR:	Right, sixteen or less. Could go over a little bit more, but not a whole, whole lot. And so typically we would have that fifteen pounds would be two seven-and-a- half pound bags of peas, and then the farmers just couldn’t see—cause we would have to sell it to the schools for eight dollars a bag, if it was, let’s say, sixteen dollars a case. So that means the farmer would probably have to take six





dollars, and they just couldn’t. They said, “No.” They just couldn’t accept that. Which they could have made money because all they had, the only thing they had in it, was production. Because they were being mechanically harvested. But here again you’ve got to change a mindset. And the way I looked at it, you could take a cheaper price, but you would never have sold as many peas on the roadside that you would’ve sold to the school and consistent.

	NR:	That’s right. On the roadside it’s not a consistent market. I mean it is sometimes.



	VR:	No, but you’re not going to sell. If you got, let’s say, on average at that time, a draw line farmer was probably making, if he got eighty bushels to the acre, eighty bushels to the acre, he was doing good. He wasn’t going to sell eighty bushels on the red road side. A lot of that was going to end up, he either was going to have to give away, put up for home use, or he wouldn’t sell. He probably wouldn’t sell half of it. But a school district could take them, all the eighty bushels.

	NR:	So what do they do with the excess, if they don’t sell?



	VR:	They’ll either throw it away or they’ll give it away. Or they may not plant as much. NR:	Next time.

	VR:	Let’s say if a farmer has a well-established roadside where he’s got a pretty consistent clientele coming through, he may, he can gauge how much he’s selling. And then he just basically translate that, “Instead of me planting an acre, I may plant a half acre.” So he’ll plant. And that’s something that I teach him too.

Based on your market, instead of planting and wasting all of that, those input costs, plant for what you actually really are selling.





	NR:	I read a study about some Florida’s, that are part of the Farm to School network in the Northeast. And talking about that butternut squash after he, he just happened to have some surplus and they sold it really cheap to the school. [Cellphone rings].

	VR:	Hold on one second.



[Interruption by cellphone conversation].



	NR:	How are you doing back there?



	MW:	Terrific. Getting my nap on [Laughter]. You guys are having a great conversation.



	NR:	Yes. In your opinion should I stop it, or does it matter how long, if it’s a longer transcription?

	W:	Just keep going. NR:	Okay.

	MW:	Whatever’s convenient for you.



	NR:	I’ve never done it before, so I wouldn’t know. MW:	So we’re in Jackson County.

	NR:	Yeah.



	MW:	It’s almost like y’ll are just two old friends.



	NR:	[Laughter]. Small world. Two girls from Fort Valley. [End of cellphone conversation]

	VR:	Where am I? I still call him colleagues, because we worked together, but now I’m the supervisor. She’s going to retire. She had a medical issue.

	NR:	Oh no.



	VR:	She’s going to go ahead and retire.





	NR:	Well I’m glad she’s able to do that.



	VR:	Yeah, yeah, yeah. And she was in school with my parents too. NR:	Ah!

	VR:	I said wait a minute, all these people are in school with my parents [Laughter].



When she first started working, she was like, “You know, you look familiar.” And I said, because she’s an older lady, I said, “I don’t know.” And then she was like, “You went to Fort Valley?” And I said, “Yeah.” She’s like, “Did your parents go to Fort Valley?” I said, “Yeah.” “Who were your parents?” I said, “Barbara and Eddy Humphrey.” “That’s where I know you from! You look just like your daddy.” [Laughter]. So that was funny. But anyway, okay.

	NR:	No, you’re fine. It’s just that, because like you said this article said they’d already established this relationship, at the end he has butternut squash, and he was just going to turn it over in the field. But he marked it down really, but he still got something for it. The school bought it and they made something with it the next week, and they made a quick adjustment in their menu. But he said otherwise, he said, “Yes, I didn’t sell it for as much as I normally would.” But he’s like at that end, being so late in the season, and by the time he got it to the store, said he wouldn’t have sold it. He was just going to till it over.

	NR:	And that’s a success story, but a lot of schools don’t want their food. They don’t they don’t want farmers to consider them as a coal market.

	NR:	Like a last chance, kind of?



	VR:	They do not. A lot of them frown on that. Say, “We don’t want your coals.” So in that case, it does work out for overproduction, but see schools are looking, they





want a consistent. They want to know that you’re providing the product for them consistently. And you may not always have an overage. So when you develop a relationship with them, this is what they’re expecting. And, ooh, please don’t tell them this. “This was left in your field.” They don’t. They frown on that. I mean you may have some that’ll work with them, some of them, the food directors, really and truly have a heart for small farmers. They’ll go out and visit, and they’ll look at it, and see that it’s high quality, but to just come in a food director’s office and say, “Well you know I overproduced.”

	NR:	Well no, no, like, I said they didn’t establish this.



	VR:	Yeah, they established a relationship before. And we’ve done that in some cases, where we’ve had some farmers that either the market fell through, or they had some overproduction, that we’ve incorporated in too. But Glyen has a…we can get out and, I can right here, got it. Perfect, yay. All the rain they’ve had, Glyen said it was like a, because all this water, cause he’s got a, and here’s just another term that I’ve never heard of—a Bay Head.

	NR:	Alright, go ahead. What’s Bay Head?



	VR:	I guess just a fresh body of water, a small body of water, over there, and it floods.



And it just runs. He said that this roadway, they had to have rubber boots on.



	NR:	Wow.



	VR:	[Inaudible 1:11:49] The Civil Rights’ Movement.



	W:	Oh my gosh, my folks used to have one of those, [word].





	VR:	Yeah, we had—I may have you in some mud, let me pull up. I call it the Civil Rights Mobile [Laughter]. Because we look like, we look like we were Freedom Riders.

	NR:	[Laughter]. Freedom Riders. Oh alright, we’re here, we’ve arrived at the farm. [A different time]

	NR:	I’m going to go back if you don’t mind just to talk about, so talk about the two million dollar EFCI grant.

	VR:	I think it’s AFRI, A-F-R-I.



	NR:	AFRI grant, okay, and you said that was, you know that a lot of 1890 colleges got it, and—

	VR:	Well it was a consortium that actually got that grant. I think it was, may have been 2001, 2002. I can’t remember when it was. But that was the same year I think that they got the two million dollar grant—

	NR:	In California.



	VR:	In California. And that’s when I started hearing about the California efforts in small-scale farmers or Farm to School. That’s when we started hearing it, because really I don’t think—at that time we didn’t realize anybody else was doing anything.

	NR:	Okay, and then you mentioned Marian.



	VR:	Marian Cal, she worked with the Community Food Security Coalition. And she came, actually came out and visited with us for a couple of days. I guess to kind of see exactly what we were doing. I think that—

	NR:	And she’s in LA?





	VR:	She was in LA at that time. The coalition moved to Portland and she was in Portland, and then she was there for a number of years. And I think about three or four years ago she left the Coalition. I’m not sure where she is now.

	NR:	Okay.



	VR:	But I know there’s some publications she’s published. NR:	Now did y’all try to get those AFRI grant or no?

	VR:	No, we didn’t apply. We didn’t try to apply for that. At that time, I’m trying to think.



Because you see that grant was through Occidental College. I think with the AFRI grants, I think you have to be a university. And so that particular one was Occidental College that actually got that grant, working in collaboration with San Barbara schools and Los Angeles Unified.

	NR:	Yeah the Santa Barbara Unified School district, that makes sense now, okay. VR:	Yeah.

	NR:	But yeah, I’m hoping tomorrow I can—because I have it on my computer saved— I’ll show you the pdf tomorrow when I come by. So I’mma let you look at the timeline, got to make so many corrections because I don’t want to print something and it’s wrong. Because like today when we were talking to Mr. Glyen I said that, and I was basing it off that pdf, and if it needs to be corrected, I would sure like to know. I don’t want to go off wrong information.

	W:	Is it New North Florida Farm Cooperative or New North Florida Cooperative? VR:	New North Florida Cooperative Association Incorporated is the legal name. W:	Thank you.





	NR:	And didn’t at one point, wasn’t it the New North Florida Cooperative and then New North Florida Cooperative and the association was added?

	VR:	Uh-huh. It was always, it has always been— NR:	With the CA, okay.

	VR:	We just shortened it to New North Florida Cooperative in speaking, and sometimes when we write. But the legal name is New North Florida Cooperative Association Incorporated.

	NR:	Yeah I’m going to have to have lots of abbreviations. Oh it was a turtle! VR:	What was it?

	NR:	Oh please make it across the road. I’m sorry, I rescue turtles. VR:	Yeah we usually just abbreviate NNFC.

	NR:	Okay.



	MW:	G-L-E-Y-N. Gleyn?



	VR:	G-L-Y-E-N.



	MW:	Yes, that’s right. NR:	Goodness people.

	VR:	I don’t know why they’re walking over. Nobody’s over there.



	NR:	So, I know he started it, Mr. Glyen, with these people here, but when do you think it was that he started expanding and going out and working with people in other states? Because clearly it’s not as the trajectory kind of suggests that it was like once he became part of the national group then he kind of went national; that’s not the way.





	VR:	No, no. The first two, probably two to three years, after this Kinko report, which was published in [19]98 I think, I think that’s the date on it, is when we actually moved out of Gadsden County. Because at that time, Gadsden County was the only school district that he was selling to. And then from that point, when he moved to other school districts out of state, those school districts would ask, “Well are you working with farmers in our state?” And so he just kind of identified, tried to work with whoever to identify some farmers in that state. So that the school districts can actually say that Alabama farmers were growing products with Georgia farmers. So that’s what started him going outside the state. Also, I know at FAMU and then the Federation, they usually would have annual meetings. And so they would invite Glyen to talk about, present about what he’s doing, and so in that way he came into contact with farmers from other states as well.

	NR:	And what annual meetings were those again?



	VR:		The Federation have, they have, they call it their annual meeting, and it’s usually in February. And so he did those for a number of years, doing presentation for their meetings. So that’s how he kind of, were introduced to farmers in Georgia. In Alabama, I’m trying to think, how did he…I think in Alabama too, I think there were some that were identified just word of mouth and people that he knew, was how he identified the farmers in Alabama. Mississippi of course, he’s from Mississippi, so he knew some farmers that he had worked with previously.





	NR:	Now, I remember you talking about the regulations—Georgia’s different from Florida, different from Alabama. So, how did you or Mr. Glyen educate yourselves about that?

	VR:	Working directly with the school food service. NR:	Okay.

	VR:	Directors, they were the ones that kind of helped us navigate through whatever rules and regs for that particular state or that particular county. And so we knew, like in Georgia we worked with Dougherty County. And so just knowing what they can do in Dougherty County, allowed us to go and talk to any other school district in Georgia. Same thing in Alabama. Melony Paine, out of Opa-Locka city schools, she was the one, she told Glyen that before she retired she was going to have him in every county, in every school, in the state of Alabama.

	NR:	Wow.



	VR:	So she really—she actually testified for a congressional committee. NR:	And who was this again?

	VR:	Melony Paine. She’s retired now from Opa-Locka city schools. So there should be a transcript of her testimony.

	NR:	Yeah. Opa-Locka city schools.



	VR:	That’s in Alabama. Outside of Auburn. NR:	Auburn, yeah.

	VR:	Yeah, outside of Auburn.



	NR:	Do you have any idea about what year she would have spoken? VR:	Oh gosh, unh-uh.





NR: [19]90s or 2000s? Do you have—nope. VR: Probably 2000s. It was probably 2000s. NR:  And she’s retired?

VR:  She’s retired now.



	NR:	But she spoke before Congress about the work that y’all were doing? VR:	Uh-huh.

	NR:	Wow.



	VR:	This was prior to when USDA were, I guess they were assessing whether not it was something that they could really get their hands involved in. I think that was all part of that; it was tied in with the food nutrition service. So it was around that time, was prior to USDA adopting Farm to School, the “Know your farmer, know your food” type initiative they adopted. It was prior to that, but I think all this led up to that.

	NR:	And what year did, if you had to pick one, do you think is when the USDA started really enforcing the regulations?

	VR:	Probably about three years ago.



	NR:	Three, okay, three. And you just think the kind of momentum that had been building up previously, had just kind of pressures from lobbying.

	VR:	Once USDA put their fangs in it [Laughter] and when they start sending word down to the schools that, “We want you all to start trying to procure from local farmers,” then those produce distributers, those food distributing companies start working at, this is just my opinion now, start working their magic. And then, once that happens—as a matter of fact when we started working with Leon County,





that next school year, that’s when they started telling us that they needed to get two more bids. And we were like, “Oh goodness.” Instead of having the food director have to go through all that paper work of getting quotes from two additional farmers—cause you know there’s a chance that we may have lost the—we wouldn’t be able to sell to them. We said, “Well we’ll just go through your existing produce provider.” So basically what they did, they put us in contact with, it was Adam’s Food at that time. And we worked through them and made sure we had whatever documentation that they wanted to have as far as good agricultural practices, and all that kind of stuff, and the liability insurance and all that. And so we started supplying the product directly to the vendor that had their produce contract. Now with some of our schools we still go and vend directly with them.

	NR:	So some of it you send it to the contractor and some of them you send it directly to the schools.

	VR:	Right, correct. See, all those years prior we were doing our own deliveries. We didn’t work through produce providers, unless it was a school district that was just too large like a Miami, West Palm Beach. And usually when you go through another party, then you have to reduce your price, cause they have to mark it up as well. It can be profitable, but you want to make sure that the volume is sufficient enough.

	NR:	To make it worth it. VR:	To make it worth it.





	NR:	Have y’all lost anyone, for example like if you used to directly send your produce to them and now you got it to go through a contactor?

	VR:	Yeah, Leon County is one of them. NR:	So you have, okay.

	VR:	And we decided to do that so that she wouldn’t have to go through getting those additional quotes, and in that way, we can secure, if we develop a good relationship with that produce provider, then that produce provider can refer—

	NR:	Y’all to somebody else.



	VR:	—us to other school districts as well. It worked out. Now in the case of Opa- Locka, now Opa-Locka city schools was one of those school districts that we worked with their produce provider from the beginning. Because Melony, she basically, she wanted the product, but she didn’t want to have a whole lot of people just coming to her docks. So she told us, “I want you to go through my produce provider.” And in one of those meetings she had him there with her. She was like, “I want you to be there. I want you to meet Glyen, because this is a product that I want you to get from them.” So when we first started, we had several ways that we could work with schools. We told them we could work through your existing produce provider, we could go directly to your schools, or if you had a central kitchen, we can go and drop off at that one central location. So she was the only one that we started with initially. I think we started working with Melony in [19]98, [19]99 maybe. I think that was that time period. These years run together. I can’t remember all of them.

	NR:	I understand.





	VR:	But I can go back. I have all my day planners from when I started working. So I could actually go back and see when the approximate time from when we started with them. I’m a pack rat like that. [Laughter].

	NR:	Oh that’s good. I like that. So, I’m gonna fast forward like to the present now with the work that we talked about earlier with what UF’s doing with other schools. But there hasn’t been any kind of network or organization to reach out to kind of unify what everyone’s doing, I’m saying in Florida as a state?

	VR:	I think that’s what they may, well, I don’t know if that’s what they’re attempting to do. They are working with the Florida Department of Ag to establish a Florida Farm to School program. So, I don’t know, I don’t think they’re trying to unify. I think they’re trying to just come up with a, I guess, a workable model that they can say, “Okay, this is how you can sell to local schools.”

NR:  But you said, I think earlier, and I just want to clarify, that they’re more about like just providing information, not actually doing the hands-on work like what you all do.

	VR:	I have not seen any evidence that that’s what they are doing. Like I said, initially the Department of Ag developed a website and so the website was a way that school districts, if they wanted to solicit and say that they are interested in buying from local farmers, and then farmers who had products that could sell, they could basically put their information on there. And then they would have to develop those linkages themselves. The Department of Ag was not doing that. Now, they’re just getting started with that. The University of Florida I think has hired several Farm to School coordinators in strategic locations throughout the state.





	NR:	But none of them is from you?



	VR:	Oh, no. Unh-uh. We were never even brought in when they were discussing this.



We didn’t realize this until we just kind of happened up on it.



	NR:	So when you said Farm to School consultants, they’re from the national level.



	VR:	No, these are Farm to School coordinators that UF has hired to be in their county extension offices.

	NR:	But what I’m saying is, but, so now they’re just creating same Farm to School, that’s what I’m saying. They hire me, and say, “Okay, you’re now a Farm to School consultant to go out.”

	VR:	Coordinator, not a consultant. NR:	Coordinator, okay.

	VR:	And basically I think they’re there to provide some type of, I guess back-stop for agents in those counties. Say if there’s a farmer that’s said, “I’m interested in selling to my local school district, can you help me?”

	NR:	Okay.



	VR:	But none of these people have done Farm to School, so they would have to actually, basically they would be telling people based on a template that the University of Florida and Department of Ag have developed, right. And that’s what they’re trying to do, but the model that they’ve developed is not the best model suited for the small-scale farmers. Because I think they’ve done some test runs, which I think they may have just put some information out for some select growers. Pero Farms just happened to be one, but Pero farms is not small. In my opinion they’re not small [Laughter]. And then there are some barriers that they





have identified that they have. One of the ladies from UF, we were at the Sunbelt Expo in Moultrie, and she ran into Glyen, she was like, “Oh you’re the person I need to talk to.” That’s how we really found out that they were partnering on a Farm to School effort. And so Glyen asked her, “Well why haven’t you all involved FAMU?” and then she said “Well, that’s a long story.” I guess administration said, “Just leave them, just let them…leave them out of it at this point.” Whatever, that’s fine. That’s fine. But she was just telling us that these were some of the barriers that they were having. And then we would listen to them, and of course we would always talk about it on the way back home. It’s like those issues that they’re having, we have long solved those issues, but because they didn’t bring us in on it. We’re not going to be as forthcoming; you’re going to have to come a little better to get that kind of information. But we did meet with them, the lady at Farm Credit, actually talked with people at the Department of Ag, and so she got a meeting with us. We just kind of wanted to get a feel for where they were going.

	NR:	Right.



	VR:	And so they seemed amenable but at the same time, they are dead set on doing it their way. Because I think they want to put their brand on it. And that’s one thing too that I think the reason why they didn’t include us, because it wouldn’t have been theirs if they had brought us in. And so they want to brand their own model, and that’s fine, but Glyen was saying that what we’ve got to do in the meantime is for those food directors that we’re already selling to, so that they understand that there’s more than just one way. Because typically school districts





will go with those entities or those agencies. Now state agencies is going to have more weight than a farmers’ cooperative. And then a UF is going to have more weight, seemingly be more credible, than a FAMU. And so those ones that we’ve worked with, we just got to make sure that they understand, and most of them do because they’ve been in it long enough, so they understand the rules and regulations. And we don’t take them outside of their comfort zone. We don’t take them outside of that. And the Department of Ag is not, this is a voluntary thing, it’s not something that this is the way you have to do it. They’re just basically creating an option for them to be able to source local products. So it buys us some time, but at the same time, Glyen has gotten a lot of interest outside the state of Florida, which we don’t have that issue. And so those markets are just as viable for farmers in Florida as school districts in Florida. I think our efforts are still going to be viable from a marketing standpoint, because there’s going to be markets that we can tap, that out growers can tap into, but at the same time, I don’t think their model is going to be comprehensive enough to where the small- scale guys can be a part of it. But like I said, those farmers, people that want to sell to the schools, are either going to have to bid for that product, bid for the school’s contract, or they’ve got to work through whoever gets the contract.

	NR:	Do you know the lady by chance, or the department or anything at UF? Is it just the UF Department of Ag?

	VR:	This is, yeah. No, this is Florida Department of Ag, the state Department of Ag. NR:	Yeah.





	VR:	Robin Safley is the lady that’s at the Department of Ag. I’m not sure who at UF is going to be the person. We talked to Danielle Treadwell, but I don’t know if someone has been assigned to be the person that’s handling it. Danielle, she’s in the College of Ag, in horticulture? She’s a professor. But she teaches and has an extension appointment.

	NR:	And which one came up to y’all at the meeting, and told y’all about— VR:	At expo?

	NR:	Uh-huh.



	VR:	That was Danielle from UF. She was saying, “I need to talk with you. I need to get with you.” They haven’t met yet. I guess she never called. I guess they never had a meeting. But they actually are supposed to have an in-service training for county extension agents next week.

	NR:	A training?



	VR:	Uh-huh. They’re having an in-service training to introduce this Florida Farm to School program to extension agents. Now of course I thought about going just to be a mole, but I said, “No, no.” I said, “We just keep it separate. Let them go ahead and do what they do; it doesn’t impact what we do. It doesn’t impact our model or our markets.” So far it hasn’t.

	NR:	You said it’s next week.



	VR:	Yeah, on the fifteenth. I think it’s March 15th. I think it’s in Gainesville. NR:	That’s how I know. I need to go. I’ll be a fly on the wall.

	VR:	Yeah, I’ll get the information to you. I don’t know if you had to preregister though. NR:	I don’t care.





	VR:	But you should be able to get in there. NR:	I’ll get in there.

	VR:	Yeah, you just tell me your [inaudible 1:34:43]. NR:	I know nothing about nothing.

	VR:	One of FAMU’s agents is going. He mentioned it in his evaluation. I wanted to tell, “Don’t you dare go. We have your own…” but I wouldn’t say anything like that. But then, just like other people who won’t acknowledge Farm to School, this agent, and everybody that I work with know I do Farm to School, but nobody has been willing to work with me on it. But if they had an opportunity, if someone else approached them, they would. Just…it’s kind of hard to explain it, but they would go out and develop a Farm to School effort knowing full well that I was involved in Farm to School as well.

	NR:	Why wouldn’t they want to work with you?



	VR:	That’s the million dollar question too. Why would they do it? There was one of my colleagues, now they weren’t doing what we were doing, but he was basically taking agriculture to the classroom, and he was calling it Farm to School. And I told him, “I don’t mind what you’re doing, but I need you to call it something else. Because I don’t want people to be confusing what I do with what you do.” I had another colleague that, and the cafeteria, the food director in Gadsden County was telling us that they had approached somebody from FAMU, because she thought it was me, she thought it was coming from me because she said, “Well Vonda, they said they were from FAMU” trying to sell them cut greens. And she said they brought a trash bag full of greens. She was like “Wait a minute, this





ain’t Vonda and Glyen. We can’t take this.” And this was someone that was a lateral colleague of mine.

	NR:	Do you know who that person was? You don’t have to say.



	VR:	Yeah I know who he was—Gilbert Queenly. [Laughter]. I knew exactly who it was. But then had it worked, you wouldn’t have been able to tell him anything. “We can do Farm to School. She not the only one who can do Farm to School.” I kid you not.

	NR:	Well, I mean, did you like ask them, “Did you not know what we’re doing?” Or did they know what you were doing?

	VR:	No, they knew, they know what I’m doing. NR:	And they just decided they can—

	VR:	“That I can do it too.” One thing that I found for with a lot of my, I’m speaking now not as an administrator, but as a program person, when they were my colleagues, very few people do things that’s their own idea. Nobody was looking at youth entrepreneurship till I started talking about youth entrepreneurship, and everybody, everybody’s doing youth entrepreneurship. Nobody wanted to do leafy green production in marketing till I started talking about I’m doing production in marketing of leafy greens, collards at that. So at one time I just stopped talking at staff meetings, because I’m thinking that –cause we’re supposed to give program reports that this is what I’m doing, but then you’re going to sit there and listen to what I say, but then unwilling to work with me on these things. You’d rather do it on your own.

	NR:	Now how long have you been a director?





	VR:	Since August.



	NR:	Well I hope you got a little bit more sway now.



	VR:	Oh yeah, oh yeah. Well, I’ve got some mechanisms in place for accountability.



Before we had—I never agreed with haphazard activities.



	NR:	Right.



	VR:	I think that the vision for extension need to come from the top down, with input from program leaders. But people were just kind of doing whatever they wanted to do, and as long as they were reporting numbers, it was fine. But there was no direction to the extension program. And so I instituted a lot more accountability measures and planning. So they had to tell me ahead of time what they were planning on doing.

	NR:	Good for you.



	VR:	And what are the goals and objectives and then what are some expected outcomes. I had one-on-ones with everybody and we sat down and we talked about it. And I instituted teams, and team leaders, so that, because we had people—I always did marketing and farm management training for farms. Why is it that one girl, now she was our secretary but she did a lot of work for the past administrative, they wrote a capacity building grant to do the same thing I was doing. And I called them on it, because she, they hired a girl and the girl came to my office, and was telling me about the program and wanted me to give me her my clientele list. I said, “No ma’am.” She wanted me to give her the clientele list, and then she wanted me to do some educational programming for their program. I said, “No ma’am.”





	NR:	Wow.



	VR:	And so I started quizzing her about the project, and I went straight to Dr. Marvin, went straight to him. And we had a—

	NR:	Dr. who?



	VR:	Dr. Marvin, he was our administrator, former administrator. NR:	And now you’re?

	VR:	His boss.



	NR:	Oh, good for you girl.



	VR:	[Laughter] So, we had a heated discussion. I said, “Dr. Marvin, not once did you, you know that’s what I’ve been doing since I’ve been here,” and I was here when he came. I’ve always done farm management and marketing, but if we do anything with animals, they want us to go through them. And I told him, “Well why I can’t, you should have at least considered me. I wouldn’t try to stop it, but we don’t need to be duplicating—

	NR:	Efforts.



	VR:	—efforts.” Especially with the same people. They need to go out and develop their own clientele.

	NR:	So how were you able to secure this position as director? VR:	We got a new dean.

	NR:	Okay, when did you get the new dean?



	VR:	Probably a few weeks before he appointed me in August, early August. NR:	Did you know this person before?

	VR:	Uh-huh.





	NR:	Okay.



	VR:	Actually, it was almost like a coup. [Laughter]. We had an interim dean all along, so they had been advertising for the dean. And so there was a contingent that was basically working with the dean before he came on board. He sent word; he wanted information from our program to see what we were doing, what some of the strengths and weaknesses of the program. And so I guess they were working with him to kind of help him establish a leadership team, because he didn’t know us either. And one of the guys that was kind of working with him, Dr. Fields, recommended me to be assistant director. Because, you see, Dr. Fields was going to be the associate dean for research and extension, but most of his administration was going to be research. He needed someone to handle the day- to-day and programming for extension. And so I was the one that he was recommended.

	NR:	So now who is the dean?



	VR:	Robert Taylor. He’s actually from Alabama A&M.



	NR:	And then Dr. Field is the assistant dean for research—



	VR:	Well he, that was the position he was politicked for; he actually didn’t get it. He didn’t get it. He had some issues back when he was dean of our college, some sexual harassment, and in his—well it’s probably public knowledge anyway—in his settlement or whatever, when they took him down from dean, but they kept him employed that he was not to supervise women. You see, I would have been underneath his direct and so that wouldn’t have worked.

	NR:	So what does he do now?





	VR:	He’s a professor over at the viticulture center. NR:	Okay, and so—

	VR:	But I would have no problem with him. I mean you know, I actually kind of liked Dr. Fields. He’s kind of rough, rough talking, but I’m not intimidated by people. So he wouldn’t have bothered me in the least, and if he had said something wrong, I know how to handle that, and if I can’t handle it, I let my husband talk to him.

	NR:	That’s right. VR:	[Laughter]

	NR:	So who is now the assistant dean?



	VR:	There isn’t one. There no one’s between me and the dean. NR:	Oh, wow.

	VR:	So I’m interim; the position is actually interim assistant director of extension. Because the dean is, he’s dean and director of land grant programs, which covers research and extension. But for the most part, I’m the person that’s over extension.

	NR:	Okay.



	VR:	I’m over that, I have spending authority and approval, authority over the formula funding, hiring, and all that stuff. But right now it’s me.

	NR:	So you kind of worked with him before he was actually, officially… VR:	Unh-uh. I never did. I never did.

	NR:	Oh really?



	VR:	There was this other group—



	NR:	So Dr. Fields just recommended you.





	VR:	Right, right, right—as part of that leadership team. And Dr. Fields couldn’t get in his spot that he was designing for himself, but everybody else was left. He was the only one that couldn’t move onto that leadership team that this new dean was establishing.

	NR:	So, before it was research and extension. You covered the extension part, does the dean cover the research solely or somebody else?

	VR:	Right, there’s no one. He didn’t have a research director yet, so he’s right now, he’s solely over the research program. But the research is a little different from extension. Our unit is a lot smaller, because the research program, we’ve got I think it’s four centers. And so he had center directors that basically run those, the research that emanates from those centers. And we have a center for water quality, center for viticulture, center for biological control. It’s just three of them.

	NR:	So it’s not a center just for what like you do? For research though? VR:	Unh-huh.

	NR:	Who does the research from your area?



	VR:	I’m trying to think. Really, no one. There’s no one that does true, pure, agriculture research. We do have some, because we’ve got our animal, we’ve got vets on staff, and we have people that are in part of the animal science academic program that do some research with animals. But there’s no animal research program. There used to be, but there isn’t anymore. So a lot of the research that’s done in pure agriculture, either crops or animals or even marketing, or economic analysis, is either done through an external grant, or is applied research through extension.





	NR:	Wow.



	VR:	Oh that’s your light. I thought that was a car light. NR:	No, sorry.

	VR:	That’s okay. So we don’t have, there is no center for small farm agriculture, or anything like that. Like I said, we may have some faculty members who may have an external grant where they may be doing some research. But most of it is just applied, some of the applied stuff that we do in extension.

	NR:	Now does FSU have a decent, good, any kind of ag program or no? VR:	They don’t have ag.

	NR:	Okay.



	VR:	Now, they are increasingly getting involved in some of the climate control issues.



One of the priority areas for NIFA, USDA—what is it, National Institute of Food Agriculture—is climate change. So they were partnering with one of our teaching faculty, looking at some climate control as it relates to agriculture, but they pulled us in I guess to shield themselves. I guess if say a University of Florida said, “Well, why are you involved in agriculture?” You see what I’m saying?

	NR:	Uh-huh.



	VR:	So they were mostly doing some, I guess some climate studies: rainfall, wet temperature changes, that kind of stuff. And then I think Dr. Thomas, who was from FAMU, was brought in to kind of look at some implications on farming clientele, that kind of stuff. But they don’t, they typically don’t do agriculture.

	NR:	Totally off the subject. Why doesn’t Glyen like Fort Valley? VR:	Glyen just, he pick on all 1890s.





	NR:	Okay.



	NR:	That, well, a couple, a few, well a long time ago there was one of the guys that worked at Fort Valley extension that, well, one of them and the guy that was the extension director, were just saying some ugly things about Glyen, passing stuff around.

	NR:	Oh no!



	VR:	Yeah, remember when I said that a lot of people that really talked against us were mostly us?

	NR:	Yes.



	VR:	And it had no dealings with Glyen, but because of— NR:	Jealousy you think?

	VR:	Jealousy, and just perpetuating what other people may have said. And they were at a meeting one time, and, Glyen, he has a pretty strong presence, and so they kind of got into a little, just a debate. And then with a lot of PhDs, well Black PhDs, they get offended. Glyen just got a bachelor’s degree. “Who are you to tell me?” And so it’s just one of those. It could have been a macho thing, could have been a…it could have been anything. So from that, Fort Valley had a bad taste in his mouth. But he’ll talk like that about all the 1890s.

	NR:	And why do you think that Fort Valley Ag hasn’t embraced this? Remember I



asked at lunch, and you said no.



	VR:	I don’t know. I don’t know. Because if I wasn’t doing Farm to School, would FAMU do it? I don’t know.





	NR:	Because that’s, immediately when I heard about this, I was like “that’s Fort Valley.” It’s rural, I know Lanes isn’t Black farmers, but they’re still small.

	VR:	Yeah, yeah.



	NR:	And, again, talking about the state of Peach County, I think it really helps kids. VR:	Peach County, the school district there, has been in the news for adopting a

Farm to School program.



	NR:	I’ve got to look that up. Do you have any idea, like do you see that in like— VR:	That was this past fall. I saw it this past fall.

	NR:	Alright, I sure as heck didn’t know that.



	VR:	Just look Peach County, Georgia Farm to School. You should be able to see something on it.

	NR:	I sure am.



	VR:	I remember seeing that. Somewhere, I can’t remember where I saw it.



	NR:	Because, I mean like, I don’t know, I don’t think he was there when you were there, but Mr. Swords, he does the FFA and—

	VR:	I remember that name.



	NR:	He was my ag teacher, so he was there I know in the [19]90s. He’s still there now.

	VR:	But this is from the school food service standpoint.



	NR:	Oh, I know, but what I’m just saying is that that’s a strong program. I remember when you all were talking about going to like the Perry fair, and all that stuff; his kids always show. They’ve actually hired a second ag teacher there now. There’s a summer program now that I think Fort Valley State offers, that they’ve tried to





get some of their kids to do, like ag, the high school kids. But I just really don’t understand why they don’t—

	VR:	They don’t push it. NR:	Push it.

	VR:	I… [Laughter].



	NR:	And I know there’s politics in that town.



	VR:	Well, yeah, but it’s more than that. I think it’s something with all of our 1890s.



People get complacent. They’re content with doing the little bit that they’re doing, and they don’t go outside the box. And the accountability is so low that they don’t do anything more. I know that’s the case. And Fort Valley doesn’t—they do a lot more than FAMU does.

	NR:	Really?



	VR:	Now Glyen says, “All that’s just fluff.” Fort Valley has a hell of a PR program. Another Peach County graduate, Marquenta, she’s Marcuenta Gonzalez, she was Marquenta Bay—she and I finished high school together—that girl is one heck of graphic arts designer, PR, and so they have a serious PR machine. The PR and outreach materials that they put out, I mean it’s exquisite. And whether they’re doing all that stuff, and what kind of impact it’s making, I don’t know, but it’s pretty.

	NR:	[Laughter]. Yeah it’s pretty.



	VR:	And then their staff, because in Georgia, Fort Valley—see in Florida we get very little state funding.

	NR:	Because y’all don’t have income tax.





	VR:	Well no, no. We just don’t. FAMU, they have not pushed the state legislature to put more. Because the federal government mandates—there’s supposed to be a one-to-one match for every federal dollar that comes in for research and extension. There’s supposed to be a state match—dollar for dollar.

	NR:	Wow.



	VR:	Yeah, but they don’t do that. I think we, this, our allocation, because we don’t continue the resolution, our 2012 allocation was like 1.8 million dollars. We probably get between 650,000, 700,000 in state match.

	NR:	How much for state match?



	VR:	Between 650, 700 from what I’ve seen. NR:	And how much do you get from the Fed? VR:	1.8 million.

	NR:	Wow, that’s ridiculous. I’m just saying the difference.



	VR:	Yeah. I can only imagine what University of Florida gets. Now of course, they’re everywhere too, so they’re much bigger.

	NR:	I don’t care.



	VR:	And they have the extension service and we’re a program within the extension service.

	NR:	I don’t care.



	VR:	But probably tens of millions just on the federal side. And then they have line items in the state budget. They have a Florida state statute, so they certain funding that they get. And then of course the counties put in money as well. But in Georgia, Fort Valley gets, they don’t get one-to-one, they get very close to





one-to-one match. So if, let’s say for instance, they got two million dollars from the feds, they’ll get an additional two million, and this is additional money, from the state of Georgia. We don’t get additional money. What they do, well, they give it the university but the university sends it down—

	NR:	In the allocated.



	VR:	With the allocation to the college. So a lot of our state match is basically matching; it’s an in-kind of faculty. We don’t get any extra dollars for programming, none of that.

	NR:	Do they push y’all to get grants?



	VR:	Oh yeah. Yeah, I mean for a lot of the programs that we have to do, we have to do external grants. Otherwise there wouldn’t be any money for us to travel, to do things or work.

	NR:	Who do you think, like NSF grants, or who do y’all? VR:	We usually just get NIFA grants

	NR:	NIFA?



	VR:	Uh-huh.



	NR:	Can you tell me who that, NIFA?



	VR:	That’s USDA, it’s the agency that used to be the one that handled extension and research. It’s the National Institute of Food and Agriculture.

	NR:	Okay.



	VR:	And they’re primarily NIFA grants. We may get some, some of our faculty have gotten some SARE grants.

	NR:	Sarah you said?





	VR:	SARE: S-A-R-E. What is it, Sustainable Agriculture Research and Education?



Which they’re regional, but their money comes from the feds, from USDA. Trying to think where else we get. We’ve got some CYFAR, which is Children Youth and Families at Risk, which that’s still USDA funded as well. We got quite a few compastability grants that we’ve got.

	NR:	But they’re all USDA grants?



	VR:	Yeah, mostly USDA. Very rarely do we got outside—



	NR:	Have you ever tried to think about NSF grant? National Science Foundation?



	VR:	Now some of our research faculty and some of the other units on campus have done NSF. We haven’t done NSF in extension, because primarily those are science research.

	NR:	That’s a good point. I didn’t think about that. Uh, those scientists. VR:	I tell you, my eyes have definitely been opened [Laughter].

	NR:	Oh, mine too.



	VR:	There’s a lot that can be done, and there’s a lot that needs to be basically revamped, thrown out, started anew. I’m getting there. I’m encouraged and as long as the dean, the dean seems pleased with what I’m doing, so.

	NR:	I know it’s probably a stretch, but have you ever heard of a Spencer Grant? VR:	Unh-uh.

	NR:	Well that’s with history, but what I’m thinking is like, because FAMU is a historically Black college and you’re preserving the history of an 1890 school, that y’all might be eligible. I don’t know though, it might be like the NSF grant, have to be strictly research. I’m not sure. I don’t know, but you should maybe—I





know your plate is, both of your plates are full, your three plates are full. But yeah, look at the Spencer Grant. But, I was even thinking with some of the work that y’all are doing, it is education. Cause I know that the NSF, they used to hold like summer programs for teachers, I’m saying for example like science teachers, but I mean that’s not what we consider research, that’s programming.

	VR:	Right. [Phone Rings]. NR:	Go ahead.

[End of recording]





	Transcribed by:	Jennifer Romero, November 13, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Anupa Kotipoyina, April 9, 2018

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 23, 2019