AAHP 126; Jones; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 126 Jacquelyn Williams Jones African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Ryan Morini on September 3, 2010 41 minutes | 17 pages



Abstract: This interview was conducted at the 2010 Black Alumni Weekend at the University of Florida. Jacquelyn Williams Jones grew up in southeast Gainesville. She talks about her family, particularly her father and the jobs he worked, and then shares her educational history. Ms. Jones explains the process that led to her coming to UF, as well as how she settled on her major, and some of campus life and the mentors who inspired her as a student. After graduation, she worked for AT&T. She describes the experience of attending Black Alumni Weekend and what it means to her.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; Student Activism]



















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 126

Interviewee: Jacquelyn Williams Jones Interviewer: Ryan Morini

Date: September 3, 2010



	M:	This is Ryan Morini, I’m interviewing, Jackie—what was your name? J:	Jacquelyn Williams Jones.

	M:	Jacquelyn Williams Jones. When were you born? J:	August 6, 1960 here in Gainesville, Florida.

	M:	In Gainesville. So you grew up in Gainesville? J:	Grew up in Gainesville.

	M:	Who was in your family, then? Who were your parents? How many siblings did you have, that kind of thing?

	J:	My mother, Elizabeth and my dad, Joe B. We lived on the southeast side of Gainesville. I have three other siblings that lived with us.

	M:	What were their names?



	J:	My older sister, her name is Tequila. My two younger sisters are Sheila and Chiquita.

	M:	Okay, very nice. What neighborhood were you in, if it may ask?



	J:	We grew up out east University Avenue. A little community called Lake Road. It’s Lake Terrace apartments but it’s I think known as Lake Road.

	M:	Okay. What did your parents do for a living?



	J:	My mom was a maid and my dad was a truck driver. M:	Like a national? Where did he drive his truck?

	J:	He drove for a furniture moving company. They changed names over the years.



They were Mayflower and then it became Allied. I think now it’s the same





company that’s called Hill Van Line Service whose office was out on Waldo Road near the airport.

	M:	Mayflower, is that the same one with the yellow and the green?



	J:	Yeah the yellow and the green. Then the Allied had the orange with a little black paint on the side.

	M:	Your mother was a maid where?



	J:	At different individuals, it was residential. She had about four families that she cleaned for during the week, Monday through Saturday.

	M:	Do your remember basically where those families were? Were they just somewhere in town?

	J:	They were just kind of over town.



	M:	Fair enough, just wondering. Where did you go to school?



	J:	I attended majority of my elementary school back at a segregated school called Williams Elementary. It’s located on Waldo Road. The year I entered fourth grade the school system here was integrated. I went to Prairie View Elementary fourth and a portion of fifth grade. My fifth grade year is basically when my family moved out to the Lake Road community. I attended Lake Forest Elementary for the remaining portion of fifth grade and sixth grade. For seventh and eighth grade I went to Howard Bishop Middle School. My senior high school years were all at Eastside High School.

	M:	Where had you lived before Lake Road?



	J:	Before that I lived in a little community called Sugar Hill. M:	Where was that located?





	J:	It’s also on the southeast side of town also, off of Waldo Road. Oh gosh it’s that near the old Depot Avenue area.

	M:	I’ve heard of that area before. Did you always plan to go on to college?



	J:	Yes, especially the latter part of elementary school, fifth and sixth grade. I always wanted to go to college.

	M:	What spurred you to that decision?



	J:	Just because. Some of my teachers were talking about it, other adults, Black and White, talking about college. I thought that would be good for me too.

	M:	Fair enough. Were there any teachers in particular who really inspired you or spoke to you or was it just kind of the whole experience?

	J:	In my younger years it was just kind of not one in particular. As I got to high school it was a little different then. Because the majority of my teachers, especially by the time I was in tenth grade, most of them were encouraging me. Especially my math teachers, my science teachers, English teachers.

	M:	What years did you attend UF?



	J:	The summer of [19]79 through the spring of [19]83.



	M:	When did you decide you would go to UF? Was that the only school you applied to?

	J:	It was not the only school that I applied to, but it was my first choice. I applied to, I believe, Georgia Tech. The University of Florida was the only Florida school that I applied to. And then Georgia Tech was the only out-of-state college that I applied to. I was pretty much set on the University of Florida.

	M:	May I ask why that was?





	J:	I don’t know. I was familiar with the campus. When I was in high school I participated in an Upward Bound program that was sponsored through the University of Florida. Again, I had the opportunity to be on the campus during the summers and during the fall on Saturdays. So again, just familiarity with the college.

	M:	That makes sense. I guess you were pretty familiar with the college. Did you go to any of the sporting events before you were a student? Did you get involved with any of the stuff?

J:  Yes I went to a few of the events. I attended a couple of the football games. I might have gone to some of the men’s basketball games, but that was pretty much it back then.

M:  Did any of your impressions change when you were actually a student here as you transitioned?

J:   No. It was as I expected it to be. M:   What did you expect, if I may ask?

J:  A tough environment, a tough curriculum. Again, being familiar with the campus it really wasn’t that scary for me at all.

M:   What was your major in?



J:   Engineering. I have an electrical engineering degree.



M:  You were set on that the whole time? Or was that a decision you made while you were here?

J:  I pretty much decided on engineering when I was in high school. Pretty much my freshman year in high school I knew I wanted to be an engineer. Probably around





my junior year in high school is when I decided on the electrical part of it. I’ve always liked math and science. Engineering was a breath of fresh air to an alternative of perhaps teaching. I couldn’t think of too much else to do with a love for math and science, so engineering rescued me.

	M:	Fair enough. Did other friends of yours come to UF too or go to other schools in Florida?

	J:	Both. I have high school friends from all over the Alachua County area because the Upward Bound program was pretty much all of the high schools had participants in it. A lot of them went on to Florida or community colleges around the county or went off to other schools.

	M:	How large was that Upward Bound program? Was this like a small group of students?

	J:	It was a program designed around minorities from low income backgrounds. I don’t remember the exact numbers, but there were several students from all of the high schools. Of course Gainesville at that time we only had a few high schools and the county was limited, but we probably had a couple hundred students total.

	M:	When you were going to UF where did you live? Did you stay home?



	J:	No, I did not stay home. Too many distractions at home. Fortunately I stayed on campus for a couple of years. I lived in Jennings Hall. Stayed on campus as long as I could, of course they had that lottery system going on back then. Your time living in the dorm was quite limited to make room for all the incoming freshmen. I think it was after my sophomore year I moved off campus for a year in an





apartment. Then I had an opportunity to move back on campus maybe my third, fourth year. I lived in one of the co-op dormitories. It was either North or South Hall. I can’t remember which one it was. That was fun. The co-op experience there in the dorm. We had to share in the cleaning of the building. Our rent was a little bit less than the regular dorms because the residents had to share the cleaning. Then my last year I lived off-campus.

	M:	Where—how far off campus?



	J:	They were all within the city bus routes, especially before my senior year, the locations that I stayed. One was actually out southeast near where Lake Road. I stayed there for a short while. Another was down off of 13th Street near, I forget the name of the streets, now, but it was one of the little side roads that went behind the VA, but it was going in the opposite direction towards Waldo Road.

There were some apartments down that way.



	M:	Kind of south of Archer?



	J:	Yeah but it was much closer to southeast Archer Road, but just a little further down. I didn’t own a car or a bicycle so I had to ride on the bus to get to and from campus.

	M:	What was the bus system like back then? Was it pretty reliable?



	J:	For me back then it was all I knew. So it worked for me. I made it work for me.



	M:	Fair enough. I guess if it had to work it was going to work. So how did you pay for school and living expenses, and that kind of thing?

	J:	I was fortunate enough to get an engineering scholarship. The funds really wasn’t a problem for me. I just needed to maintain a C average to keep the money





flowing and that wasn’t a challenge for me either. Also during the summers, part of the scholarship was to offer me an opportunity to work during the summers.

Three of the summers I actually worked over in Jacksonville at AT&T. This was before the vestiture. The summer of [19]79, the summer of [19]80, and the summer of [19]81I worked for AT&T for the summer term. This was back in the quarter system, also, when I attended. During the five years, it transitioned to the six semester system that it’s on now. That was fun the way they had to calculate our credits, convert them from the quarters to the—it was fun, to be caught in that transition.

	M:	How did you like working at AT&T? Did that complement the things you were learning in class?

	J:	No not necessarily. However, I do work for AT&T now. So it was like a little circle. [Laughter]. One of the summer jobs that I had, the last one was in the same engineering and construction department that I work in now. Again, that’s telephone engineering, similar engineering principles, but not necessarily electrical. Although dial tone is an electrical current but still telephone engineering.

	M:	Returning to when you were at school. What did you do when you got sick? Did you just go to the infirmary?

	J:	Oh the infirmary. We were poor, we didn’t have health insurance. It was either the public health route that my parents had no other choice but to do when we were growing up. So the infirmary was great for me. I used it. I had colds and strep throat. [Laughter]. So it worked out really good for us.





	M:	What about food? Where did you get most of your meals?



	J:	There were grills all over campus, nothing like it is now. There were actually places to eat in some of the dormitories. They had little grills like in the Broward area. I can’t remember if Jennings had them. I spent a lot of time at the Reitz Union, that’s where I ate the majority of my meals. It was different, very different than it is now.

	M:	Just like simple restaurants or cafeteria style?



	J:	I really don’t recall the cafeteria part of it. I can remember getting burgers and hotdogs. I think they did have some cafeteria style stuff occasionally. I ate a lot of pizza delivery.

	M:	There’s a lot to be said for pizza, especially as an engineering student. Where did you go out or go for fun?

	J:	Did I have fun back in those days? I was such a serious engineering student.



There were parties on campus, dances at different- [Phone interruption]

	J:	Sorry about that. Like some of the Black Greek fraternities and sororities they sponsored a lot of dances, parties, whatever you want to call them. For fifty cent you could come in and dance until you sweat. I also participated in a group, the Society of Black Engineers. I think the name of that group has changed, that’s in effect now. But that was the original group for minorities, Blacks in engineering. We had a couple events. Movies. Of course I could always go home. I had that option. It was just a bus ride away unless I was taking my laundry. Then I had to have someone come and get me so I could take my laundry home. Most of my





laundry I did in the dorm, but when I knew I was going home it went home with me.

	M:	Did you ever bring friends with you back home?



	J:	Several times when I would go home some of my friends that I had met here on campus, they went home with me. I remember a couple of occasions of taking my roommates or some of my other engineering classmates with me.

	M:	Where did you get your hair cut?



	J:	My hair? Back in those days it was the heyday of either the afro or I’m trying to remember. Typically for me, being in Gainesville, and I can’t even remember where I even went back then to get my hair done. I just went to the same old stomping ground. Of course my sisters, we always had the home kits. We’d do each other’s. I really didn’t have a problem with the hair. I used to wear mine braided a lot back then. That’s real simple and care free. It wasn’t a big thing for me. It still isn’t.

	M:	On campus did you have any kind of mentor or anyone you felt comfortable talking to?

	J:	Oh of course. Dr. G.W. Mingo he was the Program Director for the Upward Bound Program. Also he was the director of another program for the minority students. Those were the college students. He had the high school kids and he also had the college kids that he took care of. That was Division of Student Support and Special Services is the name of that college group he had. Also the minority recruiter for the College of Engineering, Roscoe McNealy, he was also





our sponsor for that Society of Black Student Engineers. Between them and their staff there were lots of shoulders to cry on and to talk with.

	M:	What kinds of things did they usually help you with? Did you go to them for everything or anything?

	J:	Pretty much everything. For suggestions on professors, because they had lots of input from all the students, especially Dr. Mingo. He dealt with all disciplines, all degrees. Moneywise, they were good folk.

	M:	You mentioned the Society of Black Engineers. Were you in any other organizations?

	J:	Yes, I also participated in the, there was a student chapter of the Florida Engineering Society. That was pretty much it for me. I didn’t share myself very much back in those days. I was too busy trying to get the studying done. I had set a little personal goal for myself and I achieved it. Being a student here I was trying to keep my grade point average at a certain number. That took a lot of my time. I had a good time though. I went to all of the football games. When I was a student I went to all of the football games. That was my out. When I got done studying at usually noontime, we always had like one o’clock games back in those days. Whatever it was, an hour before kickoff is when my studying stopped. I was done from Saturday up until Sunday morning. That was during football season.

	M:	Any other sports?



	J:	No that was pretty much the only team I went to watch, was football. I’ve been an avid football fan all my life.





	M:	Can’t blame you for that.



J:  And I was a student here when we were 0-10-1. That infamous year, 0-10-1. I think that was my sophomore or junior year. It was ugly but it was fun going to the games. We had to entertain ourselves since there wasn’t too much of that going on the field that year.

M:  I can imagine. Did you ever have any questions about whether you were in the right major? Or you were pretty much certain the whole time?

	J:	I was pretty much certain the whole time. I did have a humbling experience with my Introduction to Electrical Engineering class. I had to drop it the first time I took it, and that was crushing. For a hot minute there I really did question whether electrical engineering was where I needed to be. I knew engineering was cool. I got it together and dropped it that term. Took it the following term and got an A in it. All was good after that. Dr. John O’Malley was the professor and he was also, I believe, the chair of the electrical engineering department. It was just crushing to have to drop him, but I made it.

	M:	Did he try to help you out at all?



	J:	No not really. I don’t even recall even going to him. I knew what I needed to do. I dropped it and took it again. When I dropped it I did not stop attending the class. I still stayed in the class, attended all the lectures and that kind of thing.

	M:	That’s the way to do it. Were there many other Black students in electrical engineering at that time?





	J:	No there weren’t many of us at all. I think there were several. I knew of two other Black students that were in double e around that time. One was a male and one was a female. Only three of us total.

	M:	Did that pose any challenges for you? Did it affect you much?



	J:	Not for me. Although, the high school I attended was an integrated high school, in the classes I took I was used to being the only Black or the only Black female. To walk into a classroom and not see any other Blacks in there was all I had known. Although, again, my high school was maybe sixty percent Black students and forty percent White. About 50/50. I wasn’t affected by that at all.

	M:	Who were your friends on campus?



	J:	Most of my friends were the engineering students. Those are the ones that I hung out with most of the time anyway. I did have some other friends that were non-engineers, both Black and White.

	M:	How did you meet the non-engineering students? Just at different events and stuff?

	J:	Just different events or sitting out on what they called the set. [Laughter]. M:	The set?

	J:	Yeah I think the building has a name now. It was called General Purpose when they built it, it was General Purpose Building A, B. It’s over near the tower that chimes, Century Tower, over near the band room. This building was kind of cater corner from that area where the band music area is. Not too far from the old bookstore, again, across from that tower. It has a name now, maybe Turlington.

	M:	Oh Turlington, that’s a pretty big building.





	J:	Yeah like an auditorium or something. It may not be that same building. M:	I think I know which one you mean.

	J:	The way it was built we could sit on the concrete, like a little concrete wall that kind of went ‘round and people would sit there and watch others walk by.

	M:	A pretty good place to meet people.



	J:	When I lived in the dormitories we would have those ice cream socials, pizza socials. That was always a good place to meet at least the folk who lived in the same building.

	M:	Did you go to Gator Growl and Homecoming and those kinds of events, too? J:	I went to Gator Growl. I loved Gator Growl. I went to the homecoming parades. M:	Any particular memories of them or just out there having fun?

	J:	Just out there having fun kind of thing.



	M:	This might not pertain as much to your years, but were you involved with any protests on campus? Were there any political things going on at the time that you can recall?

	J:	I don’t recall any political things going on. That was a long time ago. M:	I understand. This isn’t a quiz or something.

	J:	I’m trying to remember if there was anything. I really don’t remember. M:	Fair enough. Did you go to church while you were here?

	J:	Not too much but when I did it was at my home church here, Mt. Olive AME. Church. Over on Spring Hill area. I’d go home and go to church on Sundays. But mostly I would study on Sundays. I did a lot of praying. [Laughter]. There was a whole bunch of praying going on, trust me, as I studied.





	M:	I believe it. Did you ever go over to the Fifth Avenue area, Mom’s Kitchen, any of those places? Or mostly you stayed around campus?

	J:	I mostly stayed around campus. I rarely ever went over that way. M:	Well your home I guess, was a little more east.

	J:	I ate very little over there at Mom’s Kitchen. I did—I’ve eaten some meals from there. Even back then they had some little night clubs along that Fifth Avenue area, but I didn’t attend any of those at all.

	M:	Well it’s hard to keep your GPA up as an engineer. J:	I was serious.

	M:	You got to be. Jumping ahead today, what’s it like to come to UF now?



	J:	It’s like coming home. I come back to the campus quite a bit during football season especially since, I think it was maybe the [19]92-[19]93 football season. I actually bought season tickets and I brought my son here with me. He was like about six/ seven at the time. I’ve been coming back to the football games since then every year. It just blows my mind that places where there were open fields are now buildings there. Some of the good places you used to park during football season don’t have those good places to park because there are buildings there now.

	M:	I can imagine. The construction never stops around here.



	J:	And then just coming home to visit. When I come sometimes, I rarely ever come out this way because my folk live over on the eastside of town.

	M:	What about this event itself, meeting other alumni from other years? What’s the experience like to be here for you?





	J:	It’s really neat because a lot of the attendees are people that I didn’t know when I was here. Some of them I remember. Even if they are my age or younger it’s neat being able to either reacquaint or get acquainted with Gator Alumni that are of color. I enjoy it, the bonding.

	M:	Do you feel a sense of community to speak of to come here? I guess a sense of achievement, in view of it wasn’t always that easy for people of color to get into UF and succeed.

	J:	For that very reason it makes me proud to see so many successful folk that have managed to come through here as I did. I know a lot of them didn’t have it as easy as I had in terms of finances, and even the support. Dr. Mingo, he was quite a resource for me back in the days.

	M:	He does sound like that. How many students did he have to deal with?



	J:	He touched a lot. I think that special services program was geared towards admitting the minority students who didn’t quite meet the minimum standards that was needed to be admitted as a regular student. That program was geared towards getting them here and keeping them here and the coaching and assisting. He pretty much saw the majority of the minority students came through that program. There were some of us like me that were admitted straight off. He really touched a lot of folks. I think he retired a couple years back.

	M:	Have you stayed in touch with him?



	J:	He actually attended my home church. When I come home and go to church I usually see him there.

	M:	Wow. I bet he’s proud to see where you’ve gotten.





	J:	Yeah he’s got a lot of success stories, even here in Alachua County. That doesn’t even take into account the other students from all other areas that came through the special services program. It’s awesome being here this time of year.

	M:	Do you have any regrets about your time at UF?



	J:	Oh heck no. I have no regrets at all, I really don’t. Getting that scholarship was the best thing that could have ever—I can’t imagine not coming here because of the finances or not having the opportunity at all. It’s been all good for me, all wonderful. They kept the money flowing and I did my part. I got the diploma. It doesn’t get any better than that. Without that I wouldn’t have been able to come to college. My parents just flat out could not have given me a dime. Their budget was so tight. Then they have four girls, do you know how much toilet paper girls go through? [Laughter]

	M:	I can guess.



	J:	So just keeping that in the house was a challenge in itself. M:	Did your siblings go to college too?

	J:	No, none of them. None of the three, I was the only one us.



	M:	Still quite a story. I guess that pretty much covers our questions here. Do you have any final thoughts or last statements to add for posterity, so to speak?

	J:	Go Gators.



	M:	Go Gators. Thank you very much on behalf of the Sam Proctor Oral History Program.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Andre Everette Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019