AAHP 099A; McLeod; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 099A Horace McLeod African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on August 21, 2010 43 minutes | 20 pages



Abstract: This interview with Horace McLeod discusses the community outreach at the Jerkins Community Center in Perry, Florida. He describes the community’s necessity to interact with one another and how education plays a part in this county not only for its young citizens, but for the elderly as well. He discusses food projects and clothes outreach to poor people, seniors, and other people in need in the community. Mr.

McLeod talks about the crucial community assistance he received as a young citizen in high school and other people that allowed him to become a successful professional in his life.





Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School; Community]













































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 099A

Interviewer: Marna Weston Interviewee: Horace McLeod Date: August 21, 2010



	W:	Welcome. This is Marna Weston with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program at the Jerkins Community Center in Perry, Florida. And we’re speaking with Dr.

Horace McCloud of the Taylor County Leadership Council. Thank you, Dr. McCloud, for taking the time for this fantastic weekend to speak with us on camera.

	M:	Well, thank you for coming. We really appreciate the effort and stuff that you all have done to record some of the oral history that has been around Taylor County and really not recorded or taken down any place. So thank you for coming.

	W:	Well, equally to it’s a great pleasure for us to have this type of access and to be invited in. When we first talked about this activity on the telephone, before we had a chance to meet, I could tell that you had a lot of excitement. I, also, have a lot excitement having met some people in the community, and let me just say, on behalf of our program, this has been a fantastic weekend. People have been willing to speak with us and talk about the history of Jerkins High School, in particular, and of course this fantastic celebration of the dedication of a historic marker. Perhaps, we could just start there for a second. If you would tell us a little bit about the Taylor County Leadership Council and how this marker celebration came about.

	M:	Okay. Well, Taylor County Leadership is a 501(c)(3) organization. We are non- profit. It was started back in the late [19]80s– early [19]90s and it started off Taylor County Improvement Club. They really got together because there were some conditions in the community that the county and/or city government would





not addressing in the African American community; namely, we didn’t have a sewer system in our neighborhoods, we didn’t have paved roads in our neighborhoods, so this Taylor County Improvement Club got together with an attorney out of Dade County and sued Taylor County and the city of Perry. And won. And, as a result of that, roads got paved in the African American community and the city had to set aside Loughridge Park. It was part of the settlement that they would have a baseball diamond and a facility set aside where people could go and have parties and et cetera. So, there is a Loughridge Park. Loughridge is a family that has been in Taylor County for a long time– owned a lot of property. He donated the property to the city with the caveat that they use it for that. It’s a very nice facility– much smaller than what the Jerkins Center is. So, once that was done there became some legal issues that I’m not totally versed in what happened with the Taylor County Improvement Club and it dissolved until the Taylor County Leadership grew out of that with some of the members. Again, they applied for a 501(c)(3) and was granted that. At the time when this school was closed, the school system had just built some brand new buildings here, including a gym, but when they integrated the school and closed it for good– it was really closed twice. Once in [19]68 and they moved the students over to Taylor County High School, and I’m told that that did not go very smoothly at all. So, they reopened Jerkins and brought the students back that wanted to come back so they could finish at Jerkins. And in 1970, they closed it for good. For whatever their reasons, they tore down the gym and a couple of buildings that they had added to the campus. A little bit later, the school was then converted





into an auxiliary to the vo-tech center here in the county. They had vocational classes out here. They, also, ran a head start program out of this facility, and that went on for a number of years. As funding from the state was sort of receding, they took the programs away from Jerkins and took it down to the tech center which was already in the county, but they had put an auxiliary part over here. So, once that was done, they needed to kind of consolidate what the programs they had over here. They still had some adult ed programs and they had the head start. They later moved the adult ed programs out of here and moved the head start over to one of the elementary schools and just closed the school completely. The wood mill that makes lumber right next door to us had asked to buy this property from the Taylor County School Board and they did sell them, I don’t know, maybe two, three acres just to our east and to our south. They expanded their wood yard. They wanted to buy the entire lot, but the community decided they didn’t want that. They went to the school board and they protested the school board and one of the school board members, Reverend Kenny Dennis, made the motion and there was a lot of background lobbying and course going along with the other board members. The board members did pass the resolution where they gave this facility to Taylor County Leadership. Since that time, Taylor County Leadership has owned the facility and then in various stages of doing some renovation in the facility and trying to convert it into a complete community center. One of the first projects they did was to renovate the cafeteria. Because at the time that it was given to Jerkins, that cafeteria was a welding shop with all of the hoods, the electricity outlets, the entire power stations that





were needed to run a full-fledge welding shop. So, when they gave it to them, they just took out the equipment. They left all of the power outlets– everything in there. I mean, it was in dismal shape. So, as I understand it, Taylor County Leadership got a grant and at that time they renovated the cafeteria, re-roofed it, and put it into the condition that you see it is today. Since that time, we have been working trying to get additional buildings renovated and doing additional things within the facility.

	W:	And certainly to great success, as seen by the numbers of people who have been here over the last couple of days and will still be here tomorrow.

M:   Yes.



W:  We can still hear in the background people meeting each other again and having this exciting opportunity of bringing the focus back on Jerkins High School for this weekend.

M:   Right.



	W:	Why do you think that Jerkins High has had this type of an effect on the community? People have been willing to come together and celebrate the history of this structure.

	M:	Well, I think as most African American high schools within this state and even within the nation, the high school was always the central collecting point for all of the African American citizens within that community. The same thing here in Taylor County. All of the outlying areas– they all came together here. This was the point, other than the Black church, the school was it. It’s where they felt comfortable and they felt as though they would have an opportunity to pursue the





finer things of life. When you see this collection of people coming back today, it is to pay homage to a memory that got them started on the route that they are now pursuing.

	W:	Many proud memories. M:	Absolutely.

	W:	Academic and athletic achievements. Two back-to-back Black Florida high school state football champions, outstanding achievements in the classroom compared to the local school that was not Black, as well. Do you think that this activity this weekend is going stimulate people to continue to reinvest in the memory of Jerkins and have a positive effect on the community?

	M:	I certainly hope so. That was one of the goals that we set out to do is to awaken that spirit, to get people to reinvest emotionally in the facility and we all know that people’s emotions will dictate where their funds go and their feelings will dictate where their interest and heart will go. The intent was to have this to bring them back together. Out of this facility, out of this event at least, we are going to have a 2012 mass school reunion. Again, try to bring people back to keep the focus on the facility. We will be going to the county and the city saying that, Look, we’re bring all these people in, so we want to do something to this facility to make it more comfortable. We’re going to try to use that political pressure with the economic value of bringing in five hundred plus out of town people on a weekend to Taylor County. That should have a significant economic impact and especially during these times of hardship because of travel and et cetera. We’re going to





use this to try and get some assistance from the local government to do some things that really need to be done for the facility.

	W:	Would you mind sharing some of your current short and long term plans for the use of this facility?

	M:	Yes. Well, short term is to waterproof the existing buildings, to add additional infrastructure capacity of the buildings, i.e. to build and renovate existing bathrooms to get the sewer system up to capacity where it can handle large functions that will happen here on campus. Those are our short term goals. Long term, we see this facility as being a campus for social service activities from the adult to a preschool. We can do that because we have thirteen acres here. We also have many classrooms that, if renovated and air-conditioned, can be used, not only for health care services, but to bring the kind of social services that people need into one place, thus, they won’t have to travel all over the county.

And, in some cases, out of county. Right now, there is not an employment office in Taylor County. They come to Taylor County twice a week and they are housed out in a parking lot. They come on a mobile home, a motor home at least, and they are housed at the parking lot down at the K-Mart. So, if you want to see them, you have to stand out in the heat and or the rain just to look for a job. If that service was provided on campus, they would be able to sit in air-conditioned office with some dignity while they’re trying to find jobs. Those are the kinds of things that we can do. The health department– we are about a half a block away from a housing project, “the projects,” if you will. Why not have a clinic here where students and families could come here to get health services rather than





go four miles across town? And there’s no central transportation system in Taylor County. There’s really only one taxi cab—not one taxi service, one taxi cab—in Perry. And, if that person happens to be taking someone to work and you have a doctor’s appointment, you wait. So, why not bring some of those services closer to the individuals that need it? And, we see that. We also talked about an extended living facility wherein we could renovate rooms and we could have a thirty, forty bed unit, because we have elementary wing there with ten rooms– huge rooms. Those rooms are about twenty-five or thirty by sixty, which could easily be cut into small modules and we can have a facility where people need assisted living they could easily come here. In another part of the campus, we could have daycare. So, here you have an assisted living here, you have daycare there, you have the Boys and Girls Club on the other end. What kind of intergenerational activity and, just relationship, you could have. You know, grandmamma could be right over from the kid in daycare. Or, when the kids get out of school, grandmamma is right down the hallway from them and their down at the Boys and Girls Club. So, you know, because we have this thirteen plus acres and we have, I’m not sure, but I would guess we have some thirty five, forty classrooms that are in various stages of disrepair. That to bring all that back online and to do something that we could bring three, you know four, generations together on one campus. You know, what will that do to kids twenty five years later? Because I found that, as our senior citizens get older, they actually fear younger people. Younger people tend to move faster than they do, they think they’re going to hit them, bump them, knock them down. Not in malice or





anything, but just their movement. I found that with my own mom. As she got older, I would go visit her and we would stand around and talk and she would be standing there and I would seeing her moving just trying to get out of my way, and I’m not about to bump her or something, but, from her depth perception, she didn’t know how close I was getting to her, and she constantly moved and was feeling for me, in terms of how close I would get to her and et cetera. So, if you could get just that interaction between the ages and the generations, you’re going to find that it’s going to help certainly the young ones and it would give a better life, I think, for the elderly. Because, right now, as elderly people see young people, with their pants hanging low, they actually fear these kids. They truly do. They fear them. So, you know, long term, we would like to have a campus where we would have social services available for the young as well as the old. Where people would have a one-stop shopping for social services and not travel all over the county. Right now, we have two services that we’re doing. We give free food away through the Brown Bag and Second Harvest Program.

And, we also have a clothes closet where we give food, I mean, clothing, to anyone in the county that needs it.

W:  That’s an incredible dream and vision to have dignity, compassion, a conference of services, access to transportation, intergenerational communication all in one stop.

M:   Right.



	W:	What are the chances we’re going to see this come together in the next five years or so?





	M:	Well, I tend to be on the optimistic side. I’m not sure we could get it done in five years; I certainly hope to have it done within ten. Right now, funding is everyone’s problem and it’s certainly our problem. Hopefully, with the event this weekend, we can get community support. We are searching for grants daily, if you will. It’s just difficult to find funding for the dreams that we have for this facility.

	W:	There seems to be an incredible buy-in though. I’ve had the opportunity to speak to some of the people bringing food, people coming in donating services and time over the weekend and at the same time, I was kind of coming back in and forth during your presentation. You gave a small presentation last night, but a larger one today that had that theme of “and still they talk.” I might be misquoting the term you used and I’m sure you can correct me in a moment, but the audience itself was chiming in and responding with you as you were telling the story of Jerkins High. Could you talk about those words that you gave a little bit and the audience’s response?

	M:	Yes. Well, having grown up in Taylor County, we talked about—there was a little place outside of Taylor County called Foley, and that’s where I was born and spent my first five years in school there. In Foley, we had a three room- a four- room schoolhouse and we only had three or four teachers. Those teachers taught us from first through the fifth grade, and then in the sixth grade you always to catch the bus to come over to Perry. Well, by the time I got to sixth grade, we had to—Brookton-Scanlon, which owned a saw mill in Foley, sold out to what is now, which was a Proctor & Gamble mill. When they started that mill up, one





thing they did was made everybody move. They did not want people living that close to the mill because of environmental hazards or, they say the spillage from the mill wasn’t good to breathe and stuff and they were right about that. So, we moved and came to Perry. Interestingly enough, the house that I now live in now is surrounded by those same people from Foley. So, even though we moved five miles away, people tend to move in the same neighborhood and so I have the people that I grew up with. The experience was we got second-hand books, and our teachers were not paid very highly. They were not looked at by the School Board as assets to the community, so they were somewhat ignored by the school district, but yet they taught. Their salaries was not good. Their work conditions were poor, but yet, they taught. The books we used were used books given to us from the white high school with missing pages, but they still taught. The first driver’s ed car that we got had two hundred thousand miles on it. That was given to us from Taylor County High School, yet they taught. Our equipment in our science labs and stuff was hand-me-down equipment. Not necessarily the most modern and the most eloquent equipment that you could buy at that time for schools, but our teachers still taught. Things like a copy machine did not exist.

We had those old duplicator machines and, in fact, when I was in the sixth grade, the first time I saw it I thought this was, magic. The teacher would take a stencil and put on some jelly-like substance and then take a sheet of paper and put it on top of that substance and it would transfer the image from that jelly-like substance to the paper. And, man, I was like, “Wow! This is magic!” They would do that, and we would stand there and do it and just smooth the paper out, you





know, to get the full image and stuff, and then they went to the duplicating machines, and they smelled terrible, but our teachers still taught. We didn’t have computers, we didn’t have smart phones, have any of the technology, but our teachers still taught. And we learned, as a principal I learned the most important thing in a classroom is a good teacher. With growing up in the area that I grew up in, the good teacher was the only thing we had in the classroom because those teachers inspired many of us to go on to higher education and to be successful in our lives, whatever our path was to be. Our teachers really looked at us as an extension of themselves. What they did was instill in us—they made us believe that we really could accomplish anything we wanted to do. They would encourage us. We had a great many opportunities. I think I was the senior class president, and one year I was the student government president. So, you got an opportunity to be in leadership roles and it just made you think, I can accomplish stuff because people around me was telling me. One thing about the black community here in Taylor County, as we were growing up people within the community would see us and say to us, we want you to be better than us. They said that to all of us. In fact, one of the gentlemen, Mr. Ingram, was a barber.

When I was in college, we would come from FAMU and get off at the railroad track on a Greyhound bus. Now, Mr. Ingram would sit down at his barbershop, and we would hate to see him sitting there, because he would call us all down, come here. And, all week this guy would sit there with a dictionary in front of him and try to find the longest words, the hardest words he could in the dictionary, and he would learn how to spell ‘em, and he would get the meaning, and he





would call us down. He would say the word to us and ask us to spell it and give him the meaning. My major was math. You know, I’m sitting there- asking these words and stuff, Mr. Ingram, my major is math. Let’s talk about topology, let’s talk about geometry, let’s talk about differential equations. Nope, you have to learn English, you gotta—and, he’s right. He’s right. In my role in leadership, the one thing that I always—. Because it was in my county, I said I grew up in Broward County in education, because that’s where I went to teach. And one of the things that was said about African American men in Broward County was that we could not write. I found out a long time ago, writing was a function of reading. You can’t write if you don’t read. So, I made it my business to read. When I got a chance to get promoted, they would not say to me, you cannot write. And, it worked. I only taught for five years and I got into administration. And, when I got back to Taylor County, I went to find Mr. Ingram. And I said, thank you. Because some of the words that he would sit there and look at all week and tell it to us, I used some of those words. Those words were meaningful because it helped me to learn the English language. As a math major, who cares about English. That was something I just had to pass in order to graduate, but then it became a functional part of my life—not only from his encouragement, but from the negative stigma that was attached to African American men in Broward County—that they cannot write. So, I think Jerkins and Perry has taught, not only the basics, but it also taught us how to learn. I guess it goes back to that old saying, was, give a man a fish, feed him for a day. Teach him to fish, feed him for a lifetime. So, one of the things that Mr. Ingram taught us to learn, even though this is not in your field right





now, but you still need to know this. And I found that to be very encouraging and rewarding later on in life.

	W:	That’s the second example that you gave of that as well, because you also talked about some inter-disciplinary challenges given to you by Coach Turner.

	M:	Yes.



	W:	And knowing—well, I’ll let you tell it, about the human body.



	M:	Yes. Coach Turner. [Laughter] Everybody called him either Coach or Chief. He taught science, and Chief would teach about the human body. We had to learn all of the systems of the body. Chief would have a skeleton that he would put, that was in the classroom, and he called him Oscar. We had to learn all 206 bones of Oscar. Well, it could be two-six or two-seven, according to if you look at the cecum or the co-cecum, one bone or two bone, and that’s the way he would teach us. Now, after graduating from high school and/or college or whatever, nobody ever asked me to name the 206 bones of the body again, but Coach had that inter-disciplinary instruction method. If you didn’t know where the phalanges were, and you said ‘em wrong, he would say, “Give me a lap.” Which meant I had to go, or whomever had to go out, and run around a football field one time because we didn’t know the bones. We learned the skeletory system, we had to learn the muscular system, we had to learn the auditory system, all of the systems in the body except the reproductive system.

	W:	Which he figured you’d figure out on your own.



	M:	Yeah. [Laughter] You know, we would ask him, well, Coach, why don’t we get to the reproductive system? You know, we wanted to learn that one. Well, you’ll get





that next year. Well, next year we didn’t have science, so we never got to that part. All the students would tell you, Coach never taught the reproductive system. But that was kind of indicative of that time where the reproductive system was looked at as sex, and you didn’t talk about sex, especially in the school. That was something Mom and Dad taught you at home ‘cause the preacher certainly wasn’t to talk about it in church, but that’s the way it was in the community. Now, we talk about we need to get the science and the English teachers together, so they can do some interdisciplinary planning and it makes sense because you give the child a reference. You know, if you’re gonna be talking about Roman numerals, why is the kid studying the War of 1812? He should be talking ‘bout Roman numerals at the same time they’re talking about some Greek, or something in history, about European history. It gives the kid a full view of how all those systems work together, and that happened when we were in school.

	W:	Coach Turner and Mr. Ingram were doing it forty years ago. M:	Absolutely. Absolutely. And, it worked. It worked.

	W:	Being the president of the Leadership Council, surely you must have some opinion or thoughts on what leadership is and where your leadership has come from. You’ve given two excellent examples of these men, but in your opinion, for the students at Jerkins and for yourself, what is leadership?

	M:	Well, leadership to me is the ability to establish a vision and to communicate that vision so well that it becomes a shared vision. That everybody within your arena see that as their vision, their mission and that they themselves become an integral part of reaching that goal and to do the intellectual internalizing, if you





will, of all the parts that it take to get there. Now, leadership is not necessarily the person that stands in the front. Sometimes the leader of the organization may very well be one of the individuals on the team because they will support that person in the front and help them to accomplish the goals that they need to do.

Often times, people mistake leadership and management. You know, management or leadership is one of the qualities that needs to happen in management. Leadership will help you establish the goal, management will help you get to the goal and maintain that goal. Some of the stuff that I look back at my life, I look back at some of the men and women that were influential on me, my minister Reverend O.L. Lewis. Reverend Lewis, he was the minster at Foley and he, also, was the minister here at Antioch Missionary Baptist Church where I attended from birth ‘til I left and went down to south Florida. Reverend Lewis was out of Chattahoochee, Florida. He taught as much about character as he did about the Bible. He made us believe that your character was one of the most important elements of your being and that character was more important than any credential you could have on your wall. That character was the essence of your being and that you had to exhibit the kind of the character that people would admire, hopefully they would emulate, but they would see you as a person of good, sound character, which meant you had to act that character when no one was around. See, most of us, our character values are very evident when we in groups. When we are standing up around people, we want to be honest and truthful and all those kind of things. But, when you’re by yourself, and you sitting down doing your income tax, are you just as honest then as you are if the group





was watching you? And, so, one of the things that he taught us about leadership is that you had to have sound character, and so much of what I learned from Reverend Lewis—and I copied a lot of that, even to the shirt I wear. He always had- he wore French cuffs and he always had his initials on his sleeve. And, he always wore custom suits. When I started making a couple of bucks, I got French cuffs and I got custom made suits because that’s what I saw my minister. So, the people in the community, while not necessarily attached to Jerkins, they taught us a lot by example. And, what they did, they set up the possibilities and they encouraged us to dream and go get those dreams. One of the things that small towns like Perry cannot support—its children. There’s not enough industry here, there is not enough opportunities where people can stay in the community and have a lifestyle that they would get if they leave and go other places. Last year I talked to a couple of people, one of them being a politician—the guy was running—he said, one of the greatest exports of Taylor County is its children.

That we send all of the brainy ones out to other communities and we are left with what’s left. And, I thought, wow! That’s really an indictment on the area. That you would allow your best and brightest to leave, and not that you allow them to leave, you don’t give them anything to stay for. You know, you don’t provide a standard of living, you know, there is not the opportunity for growth that they would here, if they stayed here. And, it’s a shame because Perry sits in the shadow of three great educational institutions. University of Florida to our south and east, Florida A&M and FSU to our north and west. So, we sit here in the shadows of all of these great institutions and produce a lot of great students out





of Taylor County, and they leave. You know, one of the things that we talked about today, earlier, and last night is that if you take a forty year period before Jerkins was closed and look at the graduates in the African American community during that time and compare those graduates to the forty years after, you will find that the forty years before you had doctors, lawyers, engineers, scientists, all graduated from Jerkins. Since that time, you’ve had a few people go to college, but nothing to extent that it happened before. And, we didn’t have the benefit of the technology that our students now have, but our teacher still taught. We have Dr. Gerard Henderson that worked for NASA, graduated a year after me, PhD in physics. His base is Jerkins. There is not a Dr. Gerard Henderson after that forty years. Dr. Ike Huges, gastroenterologist in that forty years before, the forty years after, no one. Attorneys, you know, all before the forty, none after the forty. So, it’s interesting to me that without the advances of the technology and all of the resources that came to bear in this last forty years, the accomplishments of the graduates pale in comparison to the forty years prior to, and that’s an indictment of something. I’m not sure exactly what it is.

	W:	I’d like to talk to you about another leadership organization that you are involved in that’ll probably lead to concluding the interview, but I wanted to give you a chance to talk about it as well. Omega Psi Phi. [Laughter] My daddy is a Q and there are plenty of Qs here this weekend, so I wanted to know if you’d talk about the leadership in that organization.

	M:	Oh, yeah. Omega Psi Phi, the love of my life. You have to do that to become a Q. Say, friendship is essential to the soul. And, that is basically what we are about.





We’re about friendship, we’re about building our communities, we’re about helping our young people come behind us and, yes, we do have a good time. But, we do all that in concert. Our goal is to provide our young people coming behind a firm foundation. A basis from which to stand, that they can then stand on our shoulders and we can hold them to higher heights to let them accomplish those things that is beyond where we are today. Omega Psi Phi is one of the great fraternities that will allow that to happen.

	W:	How did you end up being a Q?



	M:	Having pledged Omega, you know, when you’re in college you go through rush week and you have, in my case at Florida A&M, we had Omega, we had Kappas, we had Alphas, we had Sigmas, and et cetera. The Alphas were in charge of the school because the president was an Alpha. The Kappas were more the party guys and we said Qs are men. Qs were the gentlemen that stood for what we called the—we were the salt of the earth. We believed that you gotta have a strong body, a strong mind, and a willing heart and those are some of the characteristics that I grew up with. And, don’t get me wrong, the other fraternities are good organizations. Some of my best friends were Kappas and some of my friends were Alphas, but Qs are men. And, we act accordingly.

	W:	Dr. Horace McCloud, I’d like to thank you for this opportunity to speak with you about the Jerkins Historic Marker Dedication and the celebration that took here at the Jerkins Community Center in Perry on August 21, 2010. I am from the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. I’d like to conclude the interview by giving you the opportunity to make any reflections you care to about the interview or





your expectations for the future or any subject whatsoever, and at the end of those remarks that will conclude our interview.

	M:	Thank you. Well, first of all, I would like to thank you for coming and for your colleagues to come. Too much of the history in the African American community is oral history. Very few people and/or organizations take the time to document that, even myself. My father had a great barbecue sauce and as he got older I asked him, “Dad, what’s the recipe on that barbecue sauce?” And man, I haven’t made barbecue sauce in twenty years, and the time he was making it, I never thought to ask for the recipe. So, too much of our history have died with our parents and our grandparents. So, it is really a good thing that the University of Florida has taken this step to document this oral history and to put it into a format where it can be assessed by our younger generations coming along because too often, none of my children live here in Perry. I have a daughter finishing up School of Pharmacy in the University of Florida, I have a daughter in Carolina that’s getting her Doctorate, a son that works as an engineer for CNX [CSX] Railroad. My daughter that lives in Tallahassee works for the hospital there. My daughter that lives in Gainesville worked for the Department of Corrections. So, none of my children are here to carry on any of the legacy or knowledge and stuff that we have here. So, it’s good that they can now maybe access some of those files by going to a place, like the University of Florida, and doing that research.

So, we appreciate you taking the time to visit with us and to listen to us and to talk to some of my crazy classmates—I know those guys. I’m sure they bent your





ear well, but it’s all done in love and the bottom line is we really appreciate you taking the time to do it. If we can be of any service to you, don’t hesitate to call.

	[End of Interview] Transcribed by:	Liz Gray

	Audio edited by:	Anna Jimenez, June 14, 2013



	Cristina Rodriguez, October 4, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019