AAHP 672B; Woods; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 672B LaFanette Soles-Woods 7-6-2019



Interviewed by Deborah Hendrix and Marcus Chatfield on July 6, 2019 14 Pages

Abstract: LaFanette Soles-Woods gives a guided tour of the many landfills in her neighborhood, where she works to raise awareness about environmental threats from toxic chemicals in the environment from these waste dumps in the Pensacola, Florida area.



Keywords: [African American History; Pensacola, Florida; environmental racism]



AAHP 672B

Interviewee: LaFanette Soles-Woods Interviewer: Marcus Chatfield; Deborah Hendrix Date: July 6, 2019



	S:	Now, this is something that I do a lot of, so… H:	Okay.

		S:		Okay, the first thing, you see that mountain to your left over here? H:	Yes.

	S:	Okay, this is the back side of the Rolling Hills landfill, Rolling Hills Construction and Demolition facility. When Hurricane Ivan came through here, it was taller than any tree out here, and this lady that lives in this home right here, if she didn’t have a fence in her backyard, the debris would have been in her yard. It’s supposed to be at least one thousand feet from anybody’s home, but it didn’t happen that way. I’ll take you on back that way when we come back. That’s where the Wedgewood Junior-Senior High School that turned into Wedgewood Middle School, and then they tore the whole thing down. Let me give you all a little quick tour here. Our little neighborhood here is more so of a food desert. We don’t have anything like that around here. I’m gonna kind of try to slow up a little bit. See where this truck entering sign is?

	H:	Yeah.



S:  Right past this pole here is the entrance. This was just a clay pit. They used to take dirt out of there, but now it’s filled with water. I’m gonna show you exactly, um, take you down this way. Am I tearing up stuff?

H:   [inaudible 42:25] Yes.



S:  Okay. [Laughter] We have quite a few churches down here. This is one of our older churches right to the left here. This is actually the Rolling Hills community.





See, now all this water down this way was not actually a little lake. [Laughter] This was one of our landfills. I’m just gonna turn in here for just a second.

	H:	Oh wow.



	S:	Kids used to come down this way and go fishing. Right where I showed you where you can turn off and there was one of the landfills, well, this water comes all the way from over there. All of this, it looks pretty. It’s real pretty out here, but it’s contaminated water. People used to fish here and they would eat the fish, but you can’t–

	H:	It wouldn’t be a good idea. S:	No.

	H:	It looks like someone’s fishing. [Laughter]



	S:	Yeah, it look like he’s been doing something out here, but I wouldn’t eat anything out of there. [Laughter]

	H:	[inaudible 40:19]



S:  That’s what it looks like, and, again, all of this water used to be nice and clean. There used to be another landfill over this way. All of this was landfill and stuff. This goes all the way around there, but they have it blocked off now.

H:  So, when did they start actually putting in these landfills? Was it in the [19]60s you said or earlier than that even?

	S:	They didn’t start permitting them until the early 2000s, but they had been here a long time where they were just taking this red dirt and taking it out for building material. It’s a lot of homes down this way that are vacant from people just dying.





Because of the contaminated area, the family members can’t sell their homes, so they just got them boarded up.

	H:	Wow.



	S:	If you get too cool, let me know, but it’s pretty hot. [Laughter] H:	It’s about you, not me.

	S:	Oh, I’m okay.



	H:	Wow, that’s a sign you don’t see too often.



	S:	That hydrogen sulfide? Dr. Gloria Horning had the commissioners have that sign put up in different places in the neighborhood, so people would know that this is actually contaminated. This is the entrance to the Rolling Hills Construction and Demolition Facility. The judge actually closed this one down in 2015, and they were supposed to have it sealed by December 31, 2016. The company that was working on it to seal it, they quit right in the middle of what they were doing it, so it’s not sealed. Every time it rains, something explodes over there, and it catches on fire and all that good stuff. [Laughter]

	C:	And, there’s a school right next door?



	S:	Yes, this is a ballpark right next to it, and, right behind the community center, all of this is connected to each other.

	H:	Gosh, kind of dramatic, I mean. [Laughter]



	S:	Yeah, I’ve gotten kicked off of this property a lot. [Laughter] When we were fighting, the owner used to come by here all the time. We would park across the street here, and he told us that we can’t be here. “You got to go. I’m gonna have the sheriff to pick you up.” Right now, they have it up for sale. I was telling you





about the two houses behind the landfill. These two houses right here, when the flood of 2014 came through, it washed all this stuff through these two houses.

These people never was able to move back into their home. We have another landfill at Saufley Field, and it was surrounded by a White community. They closed that facility right away. This facility is four times larger than that one, but they didn’t want to close this one. One of our air monitors is behind this church right here.

	H:	Oh, an air monitor.



	S:	Yes, to measure the hydrogen sulfide. H:	[inaudible 34:02] how bad it’s leaking?

	C:	Would it be possible for us to get a picture of one of those monitors?



	S:	Sure, I’ll let you get the picture of the one at the community center. It’s one right at the community center.

	H:	Oh, okay! Even better.



	S:	You remember I told you about there being a fence? Okay, you can barely see it, but, if you look through those trees there, you see those houses? This is actually Marcus Pointe right through there. There’s a golf course on the other side of this fence, and this is one of our more prominent communities. But, those people over there don’t want to let anyone know that they are right next to that landfill.

	H:	[Laughter] All you gotta do is walk out here!



	S:	Exactly. But see, when you go on that side, there’s a privacy fence all the way around where you can’t see. [Laughter] They have their side decorated with a privacy fence and palm trees and all that pretty stuff, and this is what we got on





this side. [Laughter] I’m gonna take you up to one of my friend’s home, and she don’t mind you all getting out and walking in her backyard and being able to see over into all of the landfills that’s on this side here.

H:   It looks abandoned almost.



	S:	Well, most of the people around here have died. [Laughter] They just outright just died, died, died, and, if they not dead, they’re sick.

H:   You can’t move because you can’t sell your house, so you’re stuck.



	S:	Exactly. This is more so the area that is more farmland. A lot of these people have farm animals in their backyards and chickens and growing vegetables and fruits.

	H:	It’s sort of apocalyptic almost. [Laughter] You can’t get the impact until you just drive around.

	S:	Yes, mmhm. When we started doing our research with the Deep South Center for Environmental Justice, we have discovered it’s a thirty-mile circumference of our neighborhood, and all the landfills are like within thirty miles.

H:   So, it’s a concentrated–



	S:	Yes. This lady’s house right here, behind her house, they used to own a horse stable, and they sold their property to this landfill right here so that they can stretch out a little bit. This is called Shortleaf, and they were given a permit here to extract dirt. They decided that they have extracted all that they wanted to extract, and they really wanna put garbage in there. But, the commissioners supposed to be out looking for another property for them to be able to put





garbage into and swap land and take this with them. But, so far they have not had any luck getting that done.

	C:	Are they still taking dirt out of this one? S:	They have not in the last almost year.

	C:	Because it looks like those are fresh bulldozer tracks right there.



	S:	Yeah, it does. They have not been doing anything down here lately, but they may have came out here. They still have a permit to extract, but they can’t put anything in here.

	C:	It sure looks like a landfill waiting to happen.



	S:		Exactly, that’s what they planning on. It lets me know when there’s somebody coming beside me or behind me.

	H:	Yeah, my rental car does that. It freaked me out at first. I didn’t know what in the world! [Laughter]

	S:	Yeah! [Laughter] Straight in front of us is another landfill. This is called Longleaf Facility right here. [Laugher]

	H:	I just can’t– I’ve never seen such a thing!



	S:	It’s actually thirteen of them, but we won’t see all thirteen today. This is also an entrance to Shortleaf, and then this is the entrance to Longleaf over here. I don’t know if you’ve heard of Waste Management?

	H:	Yeah.



	S:	They own this property here.



	C:	Oh, okay. And, that’s an active landfill?





	S:	They are not active right now. None of the landfills in this area are lined, and, until they can get it lined, they can’t–This is a friend of mine’s home. She has not been able to live in this house for fourteen years because of the landfill that is behind her house. Homeless people have just about taken over. This is where I’m gonna let you all get out. You see that little opening right there in the trees? If you go through there, you will be able to see the other landfills that are over here.

	H:	We’ll be right back.



	S:	Mmhm. Longleaf is over here to your left, and then Green’s Fill Dirt is straight in front of you over there. I think that’s the only two that are over this way.

	C:	So, this was all where they took dirt out for the pits? S:	Mmhm.

	C:	Because, looking at it, you think, Oh, it’s a pretty lake. And then, you see the cliffs where it’s been dug out.

	S:	[Laughter] Mmhm. I’m gonna have to call Miss Myra, the lady that owns this house, and tell her they got a tent in her backyard. They have been breaking in her house and staying in there.

	C:	So, is the odor still strong now?



	S:	Yes, depending on which way the wind is blowing, it is. But, it’s not coming from over this way. It’s only coming from that one–Rolling Hills.

	C:	Yeah, I feel like I can smell it. When the seventy journalists came, did they come on a full tour to see it all?

	S:	Yes. They saw it all. [Laughter]





	C:	That is something. I’m gonna have to look that up because that is really something to bring worldwide attention.

	S:	Yes.



	C:	How long has she owned this property?



	S:	She bought this property back in the [19]70s. They used to have horses back here, too. She and her husband had horses and then–

	H:	That’s incredible. It looks like somebody’s living in a tent over there. Did you see that?

	S:	Yeah, I did. I just told him that I’m gonna have to call her.



	H:	That’s something else because you can tell this was a nice house.



	S:	It was a nice house, and then the homeless guys have been breaking in. They took all of her fixtures and everything out of there. I was telling them she had a horse stable and all of that in the backyard at one time, but she had to leave. I don’t know what they were putting in that pit back there, but she kept getting sick and more sick. She went to the doctor. They was doing x-rays on her, and she was glowing on the x-rays. The doctor told her, “I don’t know where you live, but you better move. You gonna either move or you gonna die.”

	H:	Do you think it was like radium or something? S:	Radiation or something.

	H:	Whoa. That’s the only thing that makes you glow that I know of.



	S:	Yeah. Where this fence is, this is the entrance to where they have the tree debris place there. There’s a little stream of water right in here. People used to do a lot of fishing there. This is a rock crushing place.





	C:	This is the place next to the school?



	S:	Uh-huh. I’m gonna show you where the schools are, but this is where they are storing concrete. See all this concrete here? They are recycling concrete at this place here, and the county commissioners just renewed their permit a couple months ago. I think it was in May. You see the fence? They put the bales of hay down here, so they say that, when they wet it down, then it’s not coming out from over there.

	H:	That’s all it takes?



	C:	They are saying that silica dust cannot go through there?



	S:	Right. That’s what they said, and I don’t believe them. [Laughter] C:	You can see right through it.

	S:	You can see right through it, and the dust that be in my house, it’ll go through stuff. [Laughter]

	H:	Oh yeah! [Laughter] Shoot, it will go through glass sometimes. That dust, it’s insidious.

	S:	At the end of this road, and this is where this place ends is at the end of this, and here we go. This is George Stone High School and West Florida High School right here, and then we got another high school right next door. This is Pine Forest High school right next door. So that’s two schools there, and this is the third school. Then, right here where this traffic light is is a fourth school. This is an elementary school–Longleaf Elementary. But, that silicon dust, they say it’s not harming our children.

	H:	And, is this predominately African-American schools or is it mixed?





	S:	All of our schools are mixed, but most of the children that go to that school come from our neighborhood. Right next door to the schools, this right here is a little league ballpark. They have football and baseball and soccer. Right here. So, now not only is it harming the children from my neighborhood, it’s harming children all over the place right here. I don’t think that’s right. I think our elected officials should take better care of us. I’m gonna show you one last facility, and it’s on the other side of our neighborhood. The facility we’re going to now–about two months ago, I guess it was the child’s fault too, but there was a young man, seventeen years old I think, out playing at the facility, and he fell into the pit. It was like a hundred-foot drop, and the fire department had to come and get him out of there. He didn’t die, but he was pretty banged up. We even have a big UPS facility right across the street from the concrete place. On that waterway right there, they got that hay all the way down the edge of that water. But, if you look over in there, that water is white. You can see the film from that concrete on top of it. When I was a little girl–well, these trees have always been there–but it was a little path, a roadway from this church. It was like right in there, that went all the way back to another road, and there was a place had a big oak tree. It was called the Big Oak Tree, and the people from that church every Saturday would go to the Big Oak Tree. They had a big kettle that they would make fire, and they would have a fish fry and sold fish sandwiches and all of that. [Laughter] That was when everybody was just pretty close in the neighborhood. One of maybe three or four families lived out here because the neighborhood was started by three or four families. It was the Atkins family, the Evaharts, the Soles, and the





Savages. That’s all that lived out here, and, through those four families, everybody else purchased land from them. That’s where we came from. [Laughter] When I first got involved in our plight against the landfills around here, I found out that this facility right here, when they first started digging, a lot of the houses back in this area were being shaken so much that they came off their foundations. A lot of people were complaining that their houses are not on their foundations anymore. We would usually be able to drive in here, but they have the gate locked today. This is an active facility here, and they actually have the white sand like what we have out on our Pensacola Beach. They have to dig so deep, and then the sand turns white. So, they sell a lot of that. See how pretty and blue that water is? You better not even put your big toe in it; it’ll eat it off. It’s a beautiful place, but all this stuff is contaminated out here. Everything. They have top soil and the white sand. This is the facility here that the young man fell a hundred feet down. I will take you to take a picture of the air monitor, the hydrogen sulfide monitor.

	H:	Does it have the actual reading on there, or it’s just–?



	S:	You can’t see the reading, but there is a–I’m not sure what the website is, but they keep it on the website. I have to find out. I’ll see if I can get a hold of Gloria today, Dr. Horning, and see if she can tell me what the name of the website is that have the readings, and you all can go on that website if you like.

	H:	If you’re allowed to see, it must be a government-operated…



	S:	Oh, they made it public so that we can go on there and see it, but I just haven’t been on there in a long time. I’m just gonna go straight through here. This is our





community of Wedgewood. See now, where we were earlier was Olive Heights, and all of this is Olive Heights. But now, this is the actual community of Wedgewood, and these houses were developed out here in the late [19]60s, like [19]68, [19]69. It used to be a prominent community. Jimmy Carter, when he was president, came here, and he actually did the ribbon cutting for this neighborhood. Since then, we’ve just had a lot of things that happened, but people still try to keep their yards clean and their homes nice.

	H:	It’s a very nice neighborhood.



	S:	You can tell it’s old, but it’s still not too bad. A lot of the people that live out here are original homeowners out here. They actually purchased these homes back in the [19]60s and [19]70s.

	H:	So, these are the homes that were off their foundations up here? S:	No, closer to that landfill over there.

	H:	I understand. I’ve been around when they’re building roads, and that ground shakes! [inaudible 4:15] [Laughter]

	S:	Back here in the back where the basketball goals are, that is where the school was located. Actually, this circle driveway where we’re fixing to go, that was where the buses used to come to go to the school. This grassy area right here is where the school was built and torn down right here.

	H:	But they left the basketball…



	S:	Yes, because the kids still come over here from the community center and play ball. I think Larry and them have that blocked off, so I can’t go back out that way.

	C:	And, the asbestos from the school…





	S:	See where that fence is? It’s on the other side of that fence.



	C:	So, they tore the school down because it was full of asbestos, and then they put it right there.

	S:	Exactly. That’s what they did. You got it right. [Laughter] H:	I can’t even believe this could happen.

	S:	This tall light pole right there, see that metal box that’s on the pole? That one right in front?

	H:	Oh yeah.



	S:	Okay. That is the H2S monitor right there in front of you. H:	Got to get a picture of that.

	S:	This community center was built to replace the school. Well, I got you all back. I hope it wasn’t too long of an hour.

	H:	It was fascinating. C:	Thank you so much.

	S:	You’re welcome. This box that says “Danger! Electrical Shock Hazard”? That is an H2S monitor that’s in that box. There’s a gentleman from the county staff that comes by, and he don’t even have to get out of his car. He has a little thing in his car. He just drives by and push the button, and it tells him the readings that are on that.

	H:	You wouldn’t know it, would you?



	S:	No. We have three more of these in the neighborhood. Our neighbors are paying for the electricity to run them, and they are not being reimbursed for that.

	C:	It doesn’t stop.





	S:	No, it doesn’t stop.



	C:	It’s layers on layers on layers.



	S:	Exactly. Thank you all for coming. I love doing this too because I want anybody that will listen to hear what we are going through in our neighborhood. So, thank you all for listening.

	C:	Thank you. [End of interview]







Transcribed by: Dewin Anguas Barnette, August 24, 2020 Audit-edited by: Sandra Romero, January 21, 2021

Final edited by: Sandra Romero, January 26, 2021