AAHP 502; Davis Jr.; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 502 Hunt Davis Jr

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Ryan Morini on 7-27-2017 37 minutes | 15 pages



Abstract: In this interview Hunt Davis Jr recalls the conference where Chinua Achebe and James Baldwin visited UF in 1980. He recounts his personal interactions with Achebe and discusses Achebe’s practicality as a person. Mr. Davis then talks about the effects the 1980 conference had after on teaching African-American literature.



Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Civil Rights Movement; Chinua Achebe; James Baldwin; University of Florida]



























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 502

Interviewee: Hunt Davis Jr. Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: July 27, 2017



M:  This is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. It is July 27th, 2017, and I’m here with Dr. Hunt Davis in his office in Grinter Hall. Thanks for joining me.

	D:	You’re welcome. We’re talking about the Achebe-Baldwin meeting at the time of the African Literature Association Conference, which we hosted here in Gainesville at UF in 1980. And I was the director for the Center of African Studies at the time, I’d became director in 1979, so, planning for this stuff was already probably just gotten started, but it was a big deal. Probably was, up to that date, in the relatively young history of the Center for African Studies, was one of the earliest things we had done and of major, major impact. So the conference brought a number of African literature specialists and a number of noted authors who were here. One of them was Kofi Awoonor, a noted Ghanaian author who was a visiting professor also for the semester; I think maybe we were on still on the quarter system? I forget. But anyway for that academic term, at the time of the conference, and Awoonor was from Ghana. He by the way was murdered in that bombing at the shopping in Nairobi, Kenya a couple years ago; he had gone for breakfast with his son to a nice place, and was actually was shot at attack itself. So he and Francis Bebey, who was a Cameroonian author, also quite well- known, and some other – most of the other people were younger or they weren’t writers, they were professors of literature and so on. And of course, I don’t know where the idea originated to have the Baldwin-Achebe conversation, but it was the key note for the conference. And Chinua Achebe at the time was already a





well-established author in African literature. His first book Things Fall Apart is one of the most widely-published novels in the world, translated into many languages; often find it in an airport bookstore in paperback form, and you ask anybody if they’ve read a book, an African novel, if they have, it’s probably Things Fall Apart. And James Baldwin of course, probably the most prominent African American writer of his time. There were other very important ones, but maybe he’s the most important. I don’t know I’m not a ranking specialist. Have you ranked…?

	M:	I wouldn’t have rankings but he’s very, very prominent, yeah.



	D:	And what is interesting; people thought if an African author was to get the Nobel Prize for literature it would be Achebe, but he never did, it was Wole Soyinka, a fellow Nigerian who first— So anyway, the conference was here, and I was pleased that I was the director of the center, which meant that I could interact with these people, and sat at the head table and all that type of stuff with my wife. And she wore a nice African dress to the dinner and things like that. But what I’d like to talk a little bit about, I mean, I’d never had any real interaction with Baldwin at the conference, other than “How are you? Welcome.” and so forth, but I did have- able to interact with Achebe, which, for me was the more important of the two people, because I’m an African history specialist, this was African studies. I mean, a chance to meet and interact and meet with this giant of African literature was a real, real pleasure. And I read some of his novels and used them for teaching. So that was why— it was his presence that was significant to me, okay. And the idea of the conversation and so forth between the two of them, which, if





you look at— I gave you a little piece that he wrote in 2007, the day I met James Baldwin, and then that YouTube interview of Achebe, and he considered it very important, and his daughter, who is professor of history, Nwando Achebe, at Michigan State University, told me a couple years back that he talked about this meeting often. So, Achebe thought that this was a very important event in his life. And I don’t think he ever met Baldwin subsequently, but Baldwin was, when he first came to the United States, the author he wanted to meet more than any other. So, from Achebe’s perspective this opportunity was something that he deeply appreciated, and anticipated. Now, he doesn’t say anything in that YouTube event, I don’t think in this thing…piece that I printed off. Maybe he does say something in there. I think maybe he does, but in the YouTube he doesn’t.

But the most memorable event for me was just my personal interaction with Achebe, and you think of somebody who is a noted author as somebody who just deals with ideas, maybe doesn’t even know how to change a light bulb, or something like that. And I learned that Chinua Achebe was an extremely practical man. On the second day of the conference, he came up to me and said “Would I be able to drive into the Lincoln-Mercury dealer in town?” That was before when we still had Mercury automobiles. I said “Sure” and “Why?” Well, he had taught at Amherst College a few years before, and he took back a Mercury Comet automobile to Nigeria with him. Which is interesting too, because all the other Nigerian cars were basically probably made in England, so he drove on the left hand side of the road, so if he was driving that car his steering wheel had to have been misplaced; just like trying to drive an English car in the US and your





steering wheels on the wrong side. So, I said “Sure I’ll be glad to do that,” of course, I was really pleased because this gave me an opportunity to spend time alone with him. Very enjoyable conversation about various things, which I just remember maybe - talked with him about Things Fall Apart, and teaching it. I don’t know. But he said, and this showed how practical he was, his mechanic said he needed to get a couple parts, and he said “I already yesterday phoned the dealer and talked to the parts department, and they said the parts would be available this afternoon, at 4 o’clock. So can we go pick them up?” He needed a water pump or something, I don’t know what he needed. Then he said, “Well, also after we do that, can we stop at Sears? Because I want to get my mechanic a timing gun, just as sort of a gift to him. So we went to Sears and shopped around for a timing gun, and then drove back, and engaged in the conference.

That is a very vivid memory of that conference, just from my perspective. And then I saw him the next year at the African Studies Association meeting in Los Angeles, and actually the director of the center there invited several of us, including Achebe, to dinner at his home, and the director loved Cadillac convertibles. They always bought one about a year old after it depreciated, and he kept it a couple years and then he’d buy another one. So he picked me up and picked Achebe up at another hotel and here we were riding around Los Angeles in a Cadillac convertible with the top down circa 1982 or so. So yeah, and then a couple years ago Achebe’s daughter Nwando Achebe is professor of history, she now holds a chair of history, at Michigan State University, and knew who she was but never met her, and she was at a meeting a couple years ago,





on a panel I was I gonna be involved with and so on, and so I introduced myself to her, and said that I wanted to tell her a story about her father from when I’d met him, and I think she probably thought, “Oh my goodness”. But let me backtrack on that actually. The Spring before that meeting, we had had a conference here at the University of Florida, and he husband, it was on China- Africa relations, it had nothing to do with literature, or anything, and her husband, whose last name I would like to look up so I can give it to you here, “Folu Ogundimu”, who’s professor of journalism at Michigan State. Anyway, he and I were talking and I said “You know, it would have been interesting to teach a first year course on Africa, introducing Africa, centered on Achebe’s Things Fall Apart, because it deals with so many different themes, and you can read the book and you can deal with African religion, you deal with African family life, you can deal with just the impact of Christian missionaries, just deal with a whole series of topics that are touched in that book and go out and find some other things. He said “Oh, he’s my father-in-law,” and he was still alive at the time. “No I didn’t know he was your father-in-law.” And so we talked about him and I mentioned this story about picking up the parts for the Lincoln-Mercury and so on, and then that fall, so that would be, what, fall in 2015 I guess, I met his daughter at the African Studies association meeting, which was out in San Diego, and I introduced myself and said I wanted to tell her about having met her father, and I was starting to say she probably rolled her eyes and thought “Oh no, everyone realizes I’m his daughter”. So I started to tell her and she said, “Oh my husband told me this story” and she said, “And I remember as a little girl riding





around in the backseat of that car!” whatever color it was, “And just wait till I tell me mother about this.” And so Achebe was dead by that time, he died in 2013. So anyway, “Wait till I tell my mother about this story.” And then she went on to say, and this relates back to the conference, she thought that her father had spoken often about the conference, and it was an important event in his life. So, that’s pretty much sums up what I have to say about that meeting. There’s much more about Achebe, but from Achebe’s perspective, just from what he’s written and what he’s said in that YouTube video that I’ve see, then his daughter saying, just in a sort of conversation, that he talked often about having met Baldwin at the ALA meeting.

	M:	Do you mind if I ask a couple questions? D:	No, please do.

	M:	Oh okay. So one, I know talking to Dr. Hill-Lubin it was tough for her to teach African literature in the early [19]70s, because convincing folks here that it was doable - there a lot of challenges that were not reasonable. And I guess you came in right before this conference as the director. But what was the effect of the conference? I know this is big enough, they had a press conference, this was like a—

	D:	It was a big event. Big event. No, I think it was important for the center to establish visibility, because we were still relatively small, we were not at that time one of the truly major centers. I mean today, the Center for African Studies here is one of the top four or five in the United State, and in terms of African programs





and stuff internationally, certainly the top ten. We don’t have to say we’re second to anybody, because of the number of courses, the diversity and strength of the faculty, faculty members, people want to come here; we hired somebody just last year and he really wanted to come here. When he was for an interview, I happened to talk with him after the interview and he said “I hope I get the job”.

He’s very good. So, people now about us internationally, “Oh you’re at the university, wow” type of thing. But 1979-1980, that wasn’t the case, and in fact from the center’s perspective, there’s something called “Title VI of the Higher Education Act,” which used to be the old National Defense Education act, and it funds the centers, and we had had that starting out as undergraduates, and we lost that grant for two years. And so one of the critical things I had to do as center director was try and get that funding back. That the then-vice president for academic affairs, Bob Brian, I went in there to talk with him, and he said, “Hunt, you need to learn the ‘Iron Law’ of academic economics; no outside grant no inside support”. So that was the message, we’d better get an outside grant if we wanted inside support. So this conference was extremely important to us at the center. Hosting something with national and an international prominence, bringing leading authors, world renowned authors, here to talk, the voice of America. In fact, I think Haig Der-Houssikian, who preceded me as director, I think it was Haig who told me this. He went to Togo, heard about the conference on Voice of America. It was a big deal and very, very important for the center of African studies. And Mildred talking about it…her fellow professors in English had to- “Wow you’re bringing these people here?” We’d never had a similar





conference that we’ve brought such prominent writers to campus. So I’m sure that it probably helped her position.

	M:	I mean, how would you rank this in terms of major events that this Center has put together that you’ve at UF?

	D:	Well, we did host several years later, the annual meeting of the African Studies Association, but we held it down in Orlando, because it brought twelve-thirteen hundred people, and there’s not the facilities for that type of conference here. And so that didn’t have the presence on campus. I would say that given the prominence of these authors that were here, that it might have been the single most important event, in terms of exposure and visibility, and so on. And we put on an annual conference that’s now in what, it’s…. thirty some years we’ve been putting on our annual Carter conference, and on a wide variety of topics. And we brought prominent people here. We’ve had prominent writers and residents and so on. Just in terms of star power, I don’t think we’ve ever done anything like this. It’s not necessarily the most intellectually important thing we’ve done, okay. I mean in terms of doing something that has led to further publication and creation. So this was a little different. It was intellectually important in one way some of these other conferences bringing people together to discuss critical topics and so forth and that involved a number of people contributing to addressing a set of issues. Other conferences might have been more important that way.

	M:	Understandable.





	D:	But this in terms of visibility, it was very important that we’d been funded by Title VI, what from 1981 on? I think the fact that we hosted this, and the university provided us probably because we didn’t have much money. I don’t know how the conference was fully funded, I don’t remember. I did know at the time, I don’t remember it well.

	M:	Were there any challenges in those conversations with administration or others to put this together?

	D:	I don’t remember.



	M:	So do you recall also, I know from reading and people I’ve spoken to, Achebe and Baldwin were supposed to lead off the event and they actually didn’t make it the opening night and it had be moved, I think, to the final night. Do you recall anything—?

	D:	No I don’t recall that. We had a banquet the final night, at the Holiday Inn, and I would have to go back to look at the program and how the program’s set up.

	M:	Just wondering.



	D:	Yeah, I guess, because I was as director sort of the host, but I was not the event planner. Sort of, “Welcome to the University of Florida, welcome.” Yeah, but Bernadette and Mildred and a couple others with the Africa Literature Association did all the work.

	M:	Yeah in certain positions you gotta move in certain circles-





	D:	Yeah, I mean it was the African- they were the ones who came up with idea “Let’s offer to host the conference.” Because of their colleagues in the African Literature Association, which I have nothing to do with the ALA. I’m a historian, I’d never attended one of their conferences, other than the one here.

	M:	Understandable. Well so, I don’t know if you have any recollections from the actual on-stage dialogue between Baldwin and Achebe. I do know there was that strange moment with the, whatever happened where someone was speaking to Baldwin through his own microphone.

D:  Through the loudspeaker system. His microphone and the speaker system and this interruption with this racial diatribe. But I just remember that that happened and everyone startled and it was embarrassing to us here. Puzzling. But I don’t recall having discussions with people in the Holiday Inn, “How did this happen?”

	M:	I mean were people still talking about that? Or was there any discussion on campus of that whole-

	D:	Well, the very few people from campus, other than those of us involved in African Studies attend, just like you can have a converse on medieval literature, I won’t even be aware it was going on. I mean, so in part, it wasn’t as big a university at that time. We’re probably double the size of what it was. It was a large university. African studies is a fairly specialized area of interest, so the people interested in Africa, the students and the faculty from campus, would be attending, and the guests who came here for the conference. And that’s been my experience pretty much. I mean, there may have been a couple people in the English department





or someplace, “Oh James Baldwin, I wanna go hear”. Or I wanna go hear Achebe. But I don’t recall, you have to look up in The Alligator, I don’t know if The Alligator published anything about it subsequently or during the time, Gainesville Sun. I mean I just haven’t thought about those aspects of it. That was quite a few years ago.

	M:	I’ll see what we can find I guess, it’d be interesting. I mean, did any students attend? I would’ve thought-

	D:	Yeah, I mentioned in this Irohine that we put out for our teachers and stuff we had a special issue of Agnes Dumphries, the director of it, she’s not here, she wasn’t at the university at the time. Anyway, a woman who is also from Ghana originally, who’s taught at Santa Fe, talks about a glorious encounter with Chinua Achebe and James Baldwin, is what she wrote. And she mentions in here in thoughts 1979: “I was enrolled at UF in graduate studies in the Spring semester taking a course on African literature from Dr. Mildred Hill-Lubin,” who was co- convener of the conference, and Dr. Koki Awoonor, who was visiting with the center and English department, and introduced to the African Literature Association through these professors, and she had the good fortune to meet Achebe because she was walking along with Awoonor and he saw Achebe, and introduced her. So she was a graduate student at the time, but our graduate program was again relatively small at the time. Yeah.

	M:	Understandable.





	D:	If something like that were to happen today, I mean a similar thing, you would not be able to have a dinner the Holiday Inn conference room, you’d probably have to have the dinner in the Reitz Union, because there would be three or four times as many people.

	M:	And it would probably be live streamed, and it would be-



	D:	Oh yeah. And I don’t know if Mildred talked with you about how many people from the community, if anybody was interested in this, and so on…

	M:	I don’t think she mentioned much.



	D:	But there’s been more interaction with the community and so on



	M:	So at that time it wasn’t really a common thing at UF to advertise a conference to the community?

	D:	I mean UF hasn’t done that very much anyway. I mean the sports events are there. I mean well, and actually now with that, the Graham Center and they really do try and reach out to the community, but UF has never been all that community oriented. And I remember just a number of years ago somebody complaining that they wanted to take evening courses, and so they drove over to Jacksonville, the University of North Florida, because they couldn’t pursue a degree program in the evening here. Well, UF just thought, “We don’t need to offer evening courses, we’re a resident university, you know, our students come here and if you want to register for courses here and study- well, we want full-time students, we don’t want part-time students. That’s not what makes for a great university, we belong to the AAU and blah, blah, blah.” So, I’ve never thought UF has been particularly





oriented towards the community. Now the center for African studies has actually as one of its mandates, outreach.

	M:	Okay. Is that a—



	D:	It’s built into our funding so we do teachers institutes and stuff like this. And I will backtrack. There is one segment of UF that’s very community oriented, and that’s IFAS. I mean, extension is a very major part of agricultural work here, and the extension agents, and the 4H club, and all that. But the college of Liberal Arts and Sciences, by and large, is not outreach oriented.

	M:	I’m gonna go out on a limb and guess that IFAS wasn’t too involved with this- D:	Oh, IFAS was not involved at all.

	M:	Yeah, fair enough, are there other recollections or reflections on that conference or that time period that you-

	D:	No, I think my own personal recollections are basically my personal interaction with Achebe, and as I mentioned I mean, he was the author I was most interested in. James Baldwin was somebody I knew something about but my interest was in, has always been in African history, and not African American history. And my focus has been on teaching about Africa and Africa’s past as a historian. I mean I’m aware of the diaspora and so forth, and in fact some of my work on South African, the impact of diaspora ideas on South Africa, Black South Africans, and so on. But, with that also was developing at that time. Our center, and I think this has been one of the very important things about our center, as a center for African studies, and not a center for Black studies, and not a center for





African and Afro-American studies, and so on, which those types of programs, Africa is never the center. Africa is a background or people of African ancestry in the United States or in the Caribbean and the United States.

	M:	That would make it tougher for diversity of languages and different parts-



	D:	Yeah so I mean, as an African center we just finished summer institute for three or four years in a row now on intensive instruction in seven or eight African languages. People have come from all over the country, and instructors have come from all over the country, and to give somebody an intensive- sometimes one instructor and one or two students, all day long, for eight weeks, so that you get into it and really learn.

	M:	I guess as a last question, do you remember much of the- were you able to speak about African history with Achebe? Was that part of the conversation? Or were you-

	D:	I just talked about what I was doing and what I was teaching, and I mean that’s the pleasant surprise of learning that this world-renowned author was a very practical person. How much more practical can you get than going getting auto parts that your mechanic can’t get back home, so that he can fix your car.

	M:	Yeah, that’s true.



	D:	Now I suppose the only more practicality was if he was going to fix it himself. M:	That, yeah.





	D:	But his mechanic said, if you wanna keep your car running, you need to get these parts, I can’t get them in Nigeria, so you bring them back when you come home, back to Nigeria, be sure you have these parts.

	M:	That is a great story. I guess that covers the interview then for today- D:	Good.

	M:	Thank you—



	D:	You’re welcome.



	M:	--for sitting down with me and taking the time.











[End of interview]



Transcribed by:

Rachel Hujsa

January 31, 2019

Audit-edited by:

Sandra Romero

March 10, 2020

Final-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

May 14, 2020