AAHP 210; Ortiz; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 210 Paul Ortiz

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Paul Ortiz on November 8, 2011 16 minutes | 7 pages



Abstract: In this talk, Paul Ortiz, Director of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, discusses the importance of Emancipation Betrayed which highlights African American History in Gainesville, and Florida in general. More specifically, he discusses Gainesville as an integral city in terms of African American leadership in Florida during the Jim Crow era. Further, Dr. Ortiz discusses significant events such as the creation of the Independent Party Plan, the presence of Lincoln High School, and the convening of “The State Conference of Colored Men”, which all occurred in Gainesville, but receive little to no historical recognition. He also touches on the roles of voter suppression and voter disenfranchisement during this era. Lastly, Dr. Ortiz ends with an anecdote about Dr. C. Eric Lincoln, author of The Avenue, Clayton City, and his adolescent experience in Athens, Alabama during the Jim Crow South.



Keywords: [African American History; Gainesville; Jim Crow; Independent Party]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 210

Speaker: Paul Ortiz Date: November 8, 2011



	O:	—and make sure that it’s part of the history. This book is a very important book in African American history, and in Gainesville and Florida in general. And if you look through it—and Isaiah and I were looking through it earlier—you’ll find many, if not most, of the key figures in African American history in Gainesville. And if you look at the index, for example—I mean, this just gives you an idea. I mean, look at this index! Man, it’s just, it’s really incredible. Hundreds, or even thousands, of names. And the institutions here are really important, as well. If you think of Lincoln High School, I want you to think of the whole South during the Jim Crow period. Roughly the 1870s to the 1970s. You could almost count the number of Black high schools on maybe one, if not both, of your hands. And that alone makes Lincoln High School unique and very, very important. African Americans throughout the entire state of Florida, and not just Florida, but outside of Florida, would send their children to study at this institution. And the centrality of Lincoln, the centrality of Gainesville, is very important for the contemporary history of this area. Two quick examples I can think of: in 1903, Booker T. Washington came to Gainesville. Now, why did he come to Gainesville? On one hand, he came to speak before a biracial group of educators. State teachers were coming and were meeting in Gainesville that year. And Washington came and spoke. But the other reason he came and spoke was that, even by 1903, Gainesville was seen as a leading city in terms of African American leadership: educational, political, social, and otherwise. If you went back to 1884, when disenfranchisement and segregation were first being promoted from Tallahassee, African Americans across the state of Florida came to this town in 1884, and they





had a convention. They called it, “The State Conference of Colored Men.” Every single elected Black official from Reconstruction convened in Gainesville. They met downtown. And it was an emergency meeting. And it was a meeting to try to strategize about how to come up with tactics and build movements to try to stop Jim Crow from happening. Because people were not going to accept segregation or White supremacy silently. And so, they organized across the state. And the institution that they built was a very important institution. And those of you who read Emancipation Betrayed will know that I’m going to talk about the Independent Party of Florida. It’s important to understand that the Independent Party was an interracial, Black and White, political party designed to stave off segregation and White supremacy. If it had succeeded, the history of this entire country would be different, because it would have stopped disenfranchisement from occurring. That was the goal. And African American Republicans reached out to their White brothers in the Democratic Party, and they said, “The Democratic Party is not serving your interests. They’re bringing in these big corporations, especially railroads. And the railroads are getting all the prime farmland. And all of the farmland that could go to Black farmers and White farmers, instead is going to Cornelius Vanderbilt. And does Cornelius Vanderbilt need more land? I don’t think so!” [Laughter] And so, the Independent Party organized in 1884. But what I’m trying to get across to you is that it organized in Gainesville; Gainesville was the place where people like Judge—well, he wasn’t “Judge” yet, but James Dean, the first African American judge in the state of Florida, came here. And Judge Dean was the kind of honorary chair of the 1884





state conference. At that conference, they came up with the plan to build the Independent Party. And at that conference also—and this is relevant for the educational story—they came up with a plan. I’ll call it “slavery reparations.” And the idea—and Judge Dean gave the speech in which he said, “Okay, the state of Florida is always complaining about not having enough money to fund an educational system for Blacks and Whites. They’re always complaining about being low on tax resources, so on and so forth. So we’re going to come up with a plan. What about this: what about getting all the plantation owners from places like, say, Madison County, and Gadsden, and Jackson, all these big plantation owners, and come up with a plan to ask them to pay us the money that we would have been paid if we were free workers between, say, 1830 and the end of slavery? And so they said, “Between 1830 and 1865, this is how much we would have been paid if we had been paid by a daily rate.” So, they calculated that up, and Judge Dean came up with this amount. I can’t remember exactly what the amount was. But he said, “This money could be used to fully fund the educational system. Furthermore, it would be doing the right thing. Because we should’ve been paid for all this labor that we did for this country and for this state.” Now, that plan, along with the Independent Party plan, again were created here in Gainesville. This was 1884. The sad irony is that there’s no plaque that commemorates that meeting. There’s no marker that commemorates Booker T. Washington’s visit here in 1903. And he came back, by the way, again, later. And so every good history lesson has a charge. And I guess the charge would be for us to think about, how can we commemorate these amazing struggles and





sacrifices that people like Booker T. Washington made here, but also that the state conference made in 1884, to try to fight for freedom. Because that’s what they were doing. They lost, and we know that, but we know that from the benefit of hindsight. But the fact is, they gave it their best try. If they would have won in 1884—and the reason they were defeated in 1884 was [inaudible 6:46]. Their votes were not counted. They were not enough White votes to [inaudible 6:54] terrorized away from joining the Independent Party. And then, the story in 1885 was the poll tax, the disenfranchisement, all those other things. But I guess I want us to think about those hidden moments of history that we don’t often recognize or even remember and think about the role that Gainesville has played in the state of Florida, and in the United States. And bringing things up to the present, I would argue that the best way to honor African American history is to patronize establishments like this. Mr. Jones and Mr. White have put in a tremendous amount of work to get it started, and I think it’s up to us to honor that commitment. I’ll end with an anecdote: when I was doing oral history work at Duke University, I had the incredible honor of studying under two men. [audio skips back and repeats at 7:59 to 10:13] One was John Hope Franklin, the other was Dr. C. Eric Lincoln. My students this semester read a book called the The Avenue, Clayton City, and they can tell you about this book, the power of the book, that was written by Dr. Lincoln. He was an expert and an authority on African American religion. And he when he wrote The Avenue, Clayton City, it was towards the very end of his life. And he’d always written kind of sociological studies of religion and histories. And then, towards the very end of his life, the





man wrote what I consider to be one of the most wonderful novels ever written about the Jim Crow South. And that book is so precious, and I was telling my wife yesterday, I said, “Every year that I don’t use the book in a class, I consider that to be a lost year.” That’s how important that book is to me personally. But I also told my students, “If you had known Dr. Lincoln, the way he carried himself, his relationship to John Hope Franklin”; he was such a gentle man. But there was a lot of aspects of his life that he didn’t want to share with family members, because he considered these to be really difficult, painful experiences. One of them was at age thirteen—and Dr. Lincoln grew up in Athens, Alabama, a very small, rural northern Alabama town. And when he was thirteen years old, he went to the man who owned the land at his family farm, and he went with a piece of paper. He had calculated the amount of money that his family should have been paid for bringing in the cotton crop that year. And he went to this man. He had known this man for years, a White man. He’d known him for many years. He was already thirteen. And he came in, and he said, “Mr. Brown, this is how much cotton my family has brought in. This is how much we earned this year from you.” And the man looked at the piece of paper, and he said, “No, you didn’t earn this. You actually owe me money.” And so, young C. Eric Lincoln said, “Well, no sir, I have it here. I have the records. Figured out how much we borrowed from the furnishing store. We borrowed fertilizer and seed, and so on and so forth, but then we brought in so much cotton, and so that overrides the amount of money that you loaned us.” So the man went to the office door, closed the door, and beat C. Eric very badly. In fact, so badly, he never really recovered from that





beating. But this is a story that he didn’t tell people until many, many years later. He didn’t even tell family members because he wanted to protect his family. He knew there was nothing his parents could do about it, because this was the Jim Crow South and you just had to take that kind of harassment and punishment. So whenever I think about African American history, I think about the stories that are told, but the stories that are untold, and the stories that we have yet to uncover.

And the greatest privilege I have is to work with members of the community like Mr. White, like Marna Weston and others, and Isaiah, who are trying to teach us about these stories. And again, this morning, when I walked into this restaurant, I didn’t know that Mt. Pleasant had burned to the ground in 1902. No one had ever told me that story—or maybe they have and I didn’t listen to it. And so now, I feel like I have a mission to make sure this story is written down, because Mt.

Pleasant of course is a critical part of this community. So, I really hadn’t planned to say much more than that, except to say, I also want to thank you as students who have to endure me in class sometimes—[Laughter]—for your spirit of curiosity and your passion or knowledge. And the fact that you already understand something that took me much longer to understand, which is the relationship between knowledge and justice. Because it’s no good to just learn facts. History is much more than facts. History should be about ethics, it should be about values, it should be about people learning to treat each other decently. And the Jim Crow years were so opposed to treating people decently, because that’s what segregation was about. It was about pretending that one group of people were inferior to another group of people. And it caused a strain and a





terrible tear in human relationships that has not healed to this day, both internally within African American communities and also between Whites and Blacks, between Blacks and Hispanics, and other groups as well. So, this is why I feel like we can use history to kind of bring people back together again. Not to try to paper over the disputes or the damage that has been done, but to bring it out in the open. Because you can’t really have reconciliation unless you tell the truth.

You can’t have peace without justice. So I— [End of recording]





	Transcribed by:	Anupa Kotipoyina, December 14, 2017 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, December 21, 2017

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 21, 2019