AAHP 089; Godwin; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 089 Carey Godwin

African American History Program (AAHP) Interviewed by Marna Weston on June 12, 2010 6 minutes | 5 pages





Abstract: Mr. Carey Godwin is being interviewed by Marna Weston on June 12, 2010 at the Armstrong High School Class of 1964 Reunion. The interview begins with Mr.

Godwin stating where he and his family are from (Godwin, North Carolina). He then briefly talks about the Armstrong reunion. Then he discusses how he got drafted for Vietnam and served in the Marine Corps. Mr. Godwin says his favorite teacher at Armstrong is Mr. Gutton and the interview concludes with him saying that he went to A&T for one year in North Carolina.



Keywords: [African-American History; Armstrong High School; Marines; Joel Buchanan Archives]



Standards

1. SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.





































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 089

Interviewee: Carey Godwin Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date of Interview: June 12, 2010





	W:	This is Marna Weston with the Oral history Program of the University of Florida in Fayetteville, North Carolina at the Armstrong High School Eastover, North Carolina. A 1964 class reunion, I’m speaker to Mr. Carey Godwin.

	G:	Uh-huh.



	W:	Thank you for talking to me for a minute Mr. Godwin. G:	Uh-huh.

	W:	Mr. Godwin, could you tell me when and where you were born? G:	I was born in Godwin, North Carolina.

	W:	Okay. And what was your date of birth? G:	March 3, [19]46.

	W:	Okay. And who were your mother and father? G:	Charles and Katie Godwin.

	W:	Okay. And on your father’s side, who were his parents? G:	His parents were Oliver Godwin and Judy Anne Godwin. W:	And on your mother’s side, who were her parents?

	G:	Jessie and Maggie Smith.



	W:	Okay. And do you know anything about any of your grandparent’s parents? G:	Unh-uh.

	W:	Okay.





	G:	Wait a minute- I know something about my granddaddy’s parents; a little bit. My great granddaddy on my daddy’s side was Robert Godwin and I can’t think of his wife right now.

	W:	What brought you to the Armstrong High School reunion today?



	G:	I received a letter from the committee- which we have a standing committee made with like four or five ladies in our class make up that standing committee Christine, Mable Wheeler, Dorothy Brinberry, and Maddy Cogbill.

	W:	Okay. And what are your impressions now that you were here today?



G:  Oh I think we should have been doing this every year. Uh-huh yeah. I would not have forgotten all these faces.

W:  Was there something special about Armstrong High School that, you know, now that you’ve been here and been around everybody that it has come back to your mind?

	G:	Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. Our parents were very much in accordance to what the teachers were doing during those years and they were actively in the education process of black children. Because most of us by far were black that went to Armstrong.

	W:	Uh-huh.



	G:	Uh-huh. Yeah they had a coordinator there with the school system that was unique. And we didn’t know that- some of us didn’t know that- until we got ready to graduate.

	W:	Uh-huh.



	G:	Yeah.





	W:	How did you end up going to Vietnam?



	G:	Oh well I dropped out of college the first year. W:	Where were you going?

	G:	A&T.



	W:	Okay.



	G:	North Carolina A&T. And I got drafted in the army. W:	But you ended up in the Marines?

			G:	Yeah because that was my way of protesting. Uh-huh, that was my way of saying, “Hey now I don’t want to go I the Army. I don’t want to go to Vietnam.” But I joined the Marine Corps and I got 	[3:15 inaudible]	

	W:	What was it like being a black Marine in the 1960s?



	G:	It was hard and rough. We were told some things that I didn’t think too- we were told that we weren’t going to make it. Of course, I think that was a part of the training. They made us work hard so that you wouldn’t make- every black Marine that I saw that went to boot camp graduated from boot camp. But that’s not so with every white Marine. I saw a lot of white Marines having to repeat boot camp or even get washed out all together. Uh-huh, yeah.

	W:	Uh-huh.



	G:	So.



	W:	So you’re glad you came. G:	Oh yeah sure.

	W:	If you one thought about being here today and you could summarize it, what would it be?





	G:	It was worth the years. It was worth the struggle. It was worth the pain. And it’s paying off here every day- the good things that the Lord did for us and the good things that our parents taught us.

	W:	Uh-huh. Did you have a favorite teacher when you were there? G:	Mr. Gutton was one of them.

	W:	[Laugher] Yeah he was very popular.



	G:	And Mr. Pugh. But if- secondly Mr. Pugh but right along with Mr. Pugh would have been Mr. J. B. Beard.

	W:	What did he teach? G:	He taught agriculture. W:	Okay.

	G:	He taught us how to farm as if we needed somebody to teach it. He taught us that we didn’t know as much about farming as we thought we knew.

	W:	Uh-huh.



	G:	Yeah.



	W:	Is that why you ended up going to A&T? G:	Well, yeah a lot of it is. Uh-huh.

	W:	The ag school? G:	Yeah, uh-huh.

	W:	Okay well I want to thank you for this short interview. I will catch up with you again, I’ll exchange contact information.

	G:	Uh-huh.





	W:	I want to thank you on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program and I like to close my interviews by given the person I spoke with a chance to have any reflection they would have, so please feel free to, you know, comment on the interview itself, or on the experience, or on anything you’d like. And at the end of your comments, that will conclude the interview today.

	G:	I’ve said of that I think I need to say. And I thank you for this opportunity.





[End of Interview]



	Transcribed by:	Liz Gray, May 2, 2013



	Audit-Edited by:	Anna Jimenez, June 13, 2013 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, June 22, 2021