AAHP 404; Greenlee; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 404 Carol Greenlee African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Diedre Houchen on February 19, 2016 30 minutes | 19 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 404

Interviewee: Carol Greenlee Interviewer: Diedre Houchen

Date of Interview: February 19, 2016



	H:	Good morning, this is Diedre Houchen. And I am interviewing Ms. Carol Greenlee on Feb. 19, 2016. We are at UF College Levin of Law, in the meeting room of the Center for the Study of Race and Race Relations. So good morning, Ms. Greenlee. Will you please state your full name?

	G:	Good morning, Diedre. My name is Carol Lorenza Greenlee. H:	Lorenza, would you spell that for me?

	G:	L-O-R-E-N-Z-A



H:  And would you please tell me the day you were born? G:   I was born in Alachua, Florida, Nov 11, 1949.

H:  So, Ms. Greenlee has been here for events surrounding the Groveland case. We are going to begin this interview back a little bit with her own story of her own life. So could you tell me about growing up in Alachua and your early childhood?

	G:	Well, I grew up with my mother, Vera Brown, and my brother, Kenneth Bernard Fowler. I lived with most of my young life with my mother and we lived with my grandmother and grandfather and my uncles and aunts. We moved out, my mother being a single parent, she had married and then they separated and then it became just me, my mother and my brother. We moved out from my grandmother’s house and we moved into a place that my grandmother did not care about because it was a lot of activity with afterhours with folks around what they call a juke joint. There was gambling in the back, there was drinking and barbecuing and loud music in the front. But me and my brother, my mother worked at a laundromat and later on at a meat packing plant. But we had strict





instructions that after we left school we were to come home, close the door, stay there until my mother got home. But I went to as a first grader, I started what they called at that time ACT—Alachua County Training school. And I went to first grade there. I was a little miss ACT in first grade, I left when A.L. Mebane school was built. Some of the classes remained at ACT. I went as a second grader to

A.L. Mebane and then later returned in fourth grade to ACT because it was a transitional kind of process. After sixth, seventh grade I move, they shut down ACT and everybody was at A.L. Mebanes. I graduated from high school at A.L. Mebane. At A.L. Mebane I played basketball, I played in the band, all of the things you know that you do in high school. But there was one, two teacher that really had an impact on me. In first grade it was a teacher by the name of Joyce Hatchcock that was my first grade teacher.

	H:	Can you spell, what is her last name?



	G:	HA-T-C-H-C-O-C-K. She made me a little yellow dress that I have a picture of today. In high school and junior high school there was a teacher by the name of Joseph Welch. He was my homeroom teacher and really became a mentor so to speak for me. Being that I did not have a father, but here was this man that he was a history teacher, but he was our homeroom sponsor and he would talk about Gainesville. And he would talk about the civil rights movement and he had aspired to be a lawyer. So listen to him and understanding what had transpired in our early life of my father and going to the prison and not being, being pretty much ashamed if you will, of the thing of what folks would have associated me with all they knew at that point was my father raped a White woman on the side





of the road. That was what was coming at me because that’s what was told to the older folk who thought they knew the story. They knew what they had heard. So this teacher, Mr. Joseph Welch, sent me in his coming in the classroom every day and over the weekend with his activity with the civil rights movement with Chestnut, gave me a place of refuge from the place of negativity and shame.

	H:	And by Chestnut you mean Charles Chestnut.



	G:	I mean Charles Chestnut. These are the people during that time afforded me an opportunity to be mentally with them and what they causes were. I learned that between Mr. Welch and the movement that was happening in Gainesville and a person so far away from me named Barbara Jordan. Because in my heart I wanted to be a lawyer, I wanted to go to law school, and Mr. Welch said he had wanted to go but he dropped out because he was interrupted with going to the war. But I wanted to go to law school and be the first Supreme Court judge, and I thought that that would be-— somebody would listen to me and somebody would help my father get out of jail. Between my going to high school and middle school I had a bout with appendicitis. To the point that it was almost too late for me when I entered the emergency room. But my thought was not on me, “If I’m this sick, maybe they would let my father out of jail to come see me.” But they took the appendix instead. So during my high school years I really got into band, and played basketball and these are the things that helped me overcome what I really felt inside. What I really was fighting. I stayed a lot by myself wondering a plotting “How can I get my father out of jail?” This is long after he had said don’t bring her back. But I knew every year there would be on my birthday there would be a card





or there would be a gift. When I was a junior in high school I was elected by the press as being Miss Junior. And my father at this point was out of jail, and he was living in Nashville. And he sent me a dress and it was all in lace, it was mint green and I road on the float with that dress it was something that, it was my father sent me this, and I kept it for years and year and years. After that he sent me a little white dress, so this is, this what I later understood that this is the image that my father had for his little girl. The little white dress was like a little princess dress and you put on these can-can slips and this [inaudible 10:12] But I knew that on birthdays, it was birthdays that were so special to me. But at 11 years old I went to my grandmother, Ethel Payne, called me, called my mother and said, “Charles have been paroled and he wants to see his daughter.” And at that point she said, “I will be coming to Alachua”—she lived in Jacksonville—

	H:	Is this your father’s mother?



	G:	My father’s grandmother. Her name was Ethel Payne. And she rode the bus to Alachua, and picked me up and we rode the bus to Nashville. We stayed at the Browns Hotel on Jefferson Street right down from Fisk University, and daddy came over and he was living at a funeral home, because that’s where he had gotten a job as part of his parole. Garden Funeral Home, he lived on the top. And he was a, drove the hearse. But he came in there straight, he had perfect posture and he walked in, and it could have been anybody walking in, but I knew that was my father. We stayed there for several days and he would bring me gifts after he went to work and come back and visit with me and my grandmother at that hotel.





So that was the first time I had seen my daddy since he had, that day, I was three years old playing on the ground, on the floor of prison. I was 11.

	H:	Now the people who are listening they’re not going to know the two stories you told yesterday about your birth and about when you were three. So would you mind sharing those, sharing the beginnings of your life?

	G:	My father was put in prison in July.



	H:	So for the record we are speaking of Walter Greenlee.



	G:	I’m thinking of Charles Greenlee. Charles Greenlee was put in prison at age 16; he turned 17 on June 4. And I was born in November of the same year, 1949. My father was already in prison when I was born. My mother tells the story that his sister, his only living sister at the time, also had a daughter and we were one week apart in birth. She tells the story that they went, she and my aunt, took the two babies to the prison. And had them side by side and asked my daddy “Which one was your baby?” And he picked me. And he said, “There’s no doubt, that’s my child.” I don’t remember that, that’s the story my mother tells. What I remember was at age 3 on a Sunday, we go to the prison in Rayford, Florida.

And my mother helped me dress up in my little dress and we, and they are talking and I am playing in the yard as I remember. I remember getting back in the car and my mother said, “Charles don’t want me to bring Carol back again.” Now old folks don’t think kids hear things. But I’m in the car, and that’s what she tells my father’s sister. And I started to cry, my mother just thought I was crying because it was a long day. But I started to cry, I remember, and that stood with me. Why my father don’t want me to come back, don’t want to see me no more.





So I later found out, the next time I see my father even though between that time and 11 years old, he was sending me cards and when he had a chance he would write a letter, but my mother had remarried so he said that he felt that he should not continue because it might cause some friction. So he stopped and we started just communicating. When I got old enough he just started sending me cards regular to me. But the next time I saw him I was 11 years old, when my great grandmother took me to Nashville, Tennessee. And at that point he had been paroled. And he would bring me, after work, he would still bring me little gifts.

And I being the first time we been home, I got home sick. So after four days I said to my grandmother, we were supposed to stay a week and my grandmother brought me back home. And I just thought from that point, just think about, my father, my father. But he still didn’t want me because he’s in Tennessee, and I’m back here. My grandmother, Esther Payne, smart lady, tried to explain that. The next time that I met—I went to my grandmother, now I knew I got a grandmother in Jacksonville. I went to her one summer. And there was a picture of daddy—it was, like, from eleven, to the time I went back to my grandmother, was in high school—there was no more communications. Like, again. It was like—“You don’t want me!” This like, when I’m three years old. But again, it’s hard. So, I went to see my grandmother that summer. There was a picture on her table, and that was my father and his wife. And she was in a wedding dress. That was a wedding picture. And that broke my heart. Why—I know now you don’t love me. But, my grandmother came out of the kitchen—

	H:	Who was this wife, that he was in—?





	G:	Tommy’s mother. Mary Greenlee. So, now, between eleven and now, he has gotten married, and now he has two young sons: Charles Greenlee Jr., who we spoke of had drowned, and Thomas. So now I know—it’s over. So I’m going on about my business. Never giving up that “I’m going to be—I’m going to make him proud of me.” From three years old, every rejection didn’t do anything but make me just that more determined that I was going make this man proud of me.

Okay? I’m going to give him something. And that was my gift to my dad. So, when I got in high school, and he sent me that beautiful dress—sitting out here and really, still there. But now, I have already received the jewelry box… that was earlier.

	H:	And by the jewelry box—can you speak about that story again for us, please? G:	The jewelry box was sent to me wrapped in a brown paper bag by my father,

Charles Greenlee. A box that he had made out of burned match stems that he had collected on the grounds of the prison over the years. And still have that jewelry box today. It have—in the front of it, it has a “C,” where he had carved it out by hand on the front of the jewelry box. Everything else is made out of old cigarette match stems. Now, he could have did Popsicle sticks. But that wasn’t— those match stems was patience, persistence, and determination. Took a lot of time. So, after graduation, I went to work for the FBI Bureau of Washington, D.C. Still on that road, you see? Nobody—“Why you going there, FBI?” My mother wanted me to join what they call the “WACs.” But I didn’t want to go to the Army.

	H:	What did you do for the FBI? G:	I was a fingerprint tech.





	H:	Okay. And how did you get that position?



	G:	The FBI representative came to A.L. Mebane School. And they interviewed the junior class, senior class I think it was. And you had to take a test, and you had to interview with these people, and they chose me and two other—was two other young ladies, and we went to Washington, D.C. I was seventeen years old. And I was trained by the FBI to identify fingerprints—match and identify fingerprints.

Looking through a microscope, and still thinking, “I’m going to go, I’m going to pass by Georgetown University. I’m going to law school.” But then, not hearing from my father, I got discouraged. And I went back to Alachua. And my mother said to me, “You need to go back to school. You need to do something.” So I said, “I’m going to school. I’m going back to school.” And she said, “Okay.” So, I went to—the first school that I went to was over at Ed Waters. And I said, “Nah, I can’t go here!” I couldn’t sleep at night. Because I went early because we had to register—I couldn’t sleep! So I left and went back home. And my mother said, “You gonna leave here.” “I—I—I—” “You gonna leave here.” So, she put this wad of—I thought it was a lot of money, but it just one dollar bills—tied to my bra strap, put me on the Greyhound bus, and sent me to my dad. And she said to me that morning, she said, “You can look back, but don’t come back.” I was seventeen. Eighteen at that point. I have not been back to live in Alachua since. My father met me at the bus station in Nashville. It was snowing, and we was— he slipped down the alley, and he took me back to harvest. And that’s when I first met my two brothers and my stepmother. That summer, I entered Tennessee State University.





	H:	Why do you think your mother wanted you to leave, and not come back to Alachua?

	G:	There was nothing there. And she saw that I was searching for something, and that she was afraid that I would get into trouble because of the [19]60s and what was going on in Gainesville.

	H:	And where is your mother from? Vera Brown? G:	Alachua.

	H:	And her mother? G:	Sarah Brown.

	H:	Sarah Brown?



	G:	Thurman Brown.



	H:	Okay. That is her mother and her father. G:	Yes.

	H:	And they are also from Alachua?



	G:	From Alachua. My grandfather, Thurman Brown’ family owned acres of land here in Gainesville. And there’s a street in here that relatives lived on both sides of that street as part of that land. And the University of Florida bought most of that land from my father. My grandfather.

	H:	Do you know which street that is?



	G:	I don’t remember. But I can get it to you. H:	Do you know what area of Gainesville?

	G:	It’s close around here. Very close. And I think it’s near 39th? You know the Jonesville area?





	H:	Yes.



	G:	All of my relatives live in that area. Did you ever heard of the Warren Cave? H:	No. Say it again, please?

	G:	I guess they call it the “Warren Cave?” H:	Okay. Warren Cave.

	G:	It’s a cave.



	H:	Okay. Well, we’ll look into it.



	G:	Yeah. So, there’s a lot of Browns: my mother, and my grandmother, Sarah Brown. That’s all about this area.

	H:	Do you remember who the principal was when you were at Mebane? G:	Sure.

	H:	Who was the principal? G:	Oliver Jones.

	H:	Oliver Jones. So, the son of A. Quinn Jones.



	G:	Yes. Uh-huh. He was the, Oliver Jones was there, and Cleatha Hathcock was his assistant. And then, there was another principal between ACT and—Mr.

Whitfield was the principal when A.L. Mebane first was opened.



	H:	Okay. And the Alachua County Training—what was your education like at the Alachua County Training School and at Mebane those early years? What do you remember about it?

	G:	Well, in Alachua County Training School, I remember we had to go to a cafeteria where—it was a house—and we got our lunch. And we had to buy milk in a little carton in another place, and we used to buy a lot of oatmeal cookies and milk in





first grade. But, my first grade teacher, Ms. Hathcock, used to—we had to put our hands on the table every morning to make sure our fingernails was clean. We needed to do hygiene first time, first thing in the morning. And we prayed first thing in the morning. And the pledge of allegiance. And then we went about the ABCs, and Alice and Jerry. I remember when I was in fourth grade, I asked the principal—I remember it very clearly—“What’s the last name of Alice and Jerry?” And because—the reason for that; he thought I was being funny. But names are important. And it was very important to me, because I knew I was Greenlee, but yet, my name was Brown. And nobody—my friends knew me as Brown. So it was important for me to know. “Well, what’s Alice and Jerry’s last name?”

	H:	So you knew that you were—your friends, did they know you as Brown? G:	Never. They knew me as Brown.

	H:	Ah, they did not know— G:	As Greenlee.

	H:	As Greenlee. Now, you spoke about that: that growing up as a child, there was some stigma. You felt some shame and stigma associated with your father being in prison, and the case. And when we hear about this case, it’s clear—now we’re all hearing about it going, “Well, it’s clear that they didn’t do it.” Did you have the sense growing up that—you know?

	G:	I did.



	H:	You did. But—



	G:	My mother did. H:	Your mother did.





	G:	But the word out there, and the newspaper, and the stories that people would bring from South Florida was not that.

	H:	Even within the Black community?



	G:	Even within the Black community, it was taboo to talk about. You see?



	H:	What about—not even private conversations, but the preacher who would say, “We know—” no.

	G:	Back then, everything that came out a White person’s mouth was the gospel.



Okay? So—and children of people that had gotten crossed, if you wasn’t lynched, if you wasn’t dead, you were wrong if the White man said you was wrong.

	H:	So the fear was—the fear, the disease, it was so prevalent that you were going to get shunned by Black people, because White people—

	G:	That’s what I thought. That’s what I thought. And the whispers. Even my aunts. Aside from my mother—my mother was a rebel, okay? [Laughter] But even my aunts did not discuss it. You see? So who could my mother talk to? My grandmother and my grandfather who we lived with didn’t discuss it. So, this was something that I felt that if it was a whisper, it was whispering about me. Now understand, here’s a child at three years old, and her father has said, “Don’t bring her back.” So I’m saying, “What it is about me?” So I’m taking it that it’s me. If I had not been born, or was on the way to be born, he wouldn’t have been in prison, because he didn’t have to go down to get another job. It’s me! So, that whole thing have shaped my life, my thinking, my attitude; everything. I had been in prison more so than anybody I’ve known, until my daddy set me free.





	H:	And how did he set you free?



	G:	By telling me, “Leave the past in the past.” And it is not your environment that imprison you. It is your mind and your heart.

	H:	And when did you all start to build a relationship that you enjoyed?



	G:	When we stopped fighting about it. [Laughter] About who was right and who was wrong, you know? Who should do, what we should do. But it was when that void was lifted—when I went to Tennessee in, this last time my mother told me not to come back and I enrolled in Tennessee State University, and anybody say “Let’s march” at Tennessee State or Fisk, you knew who was on the front line. And daddy told me, “I’m not coming and get you out of jail.” So—

	H:	What year?



	G:	1967. And, when I got to Tennessee State, I met a guy named Philoron Wright. H:	Wow. Okay.

	G:	And he took me under his wing. “This my homegirl. Don’t y’all bother her.” And Philoron was there. Until he left. But he had been there—he’s older. Then, there was a guy who was, had graduated, who had been the vice president of student body at Tennessee State. And he gave me an article of that, spoke to dad of Charles Greenlee and the anniversary. I think the article was in 1954, something like that. But anyway, he the one said, “You should be proud of your daddy; your daddy’s something!” He’s the one that looked at me and says, “Your daddy was put in prison, and he didn’t do nothing wrong.” I’m saying, “Where this—where he come from?” I didn’t never say anything about this. And he was the first person that really got me to thinking that all this time, I have been ashamed, or I have felt





guilty, and I didn’t do anything wrong. And I’m here with my dad, and now he’s trying to help me through school—but he wouldn’t talk about it. He didn’t say anything about it. He wasn’t like—it was taboo. So, in [19]60—when I graduated from college, we still hadn’t talked. But we were still opposing one another, because we hadn’t cleared the air. So, I started—I got to get rid of this void here. I can’t be whole; I can’t be me, until I know the truth. So, one New Year’s Day, I asked Daddy to meet me at this old shop. And I asked him. “This is very hard.” It was very hard for me to even approach him. And it was, I learned, even harder for him to even talk about it—to me especially. Now, he’s feeling that he is the one that is responsible for the way I act, the way I am, and all this. So, he felt like he had to protect me. And that’s why we were at opposites: because what he wanted to do is protect me from all that he knew that was out there, that could have come and rest on my doorstep. And I’m trying to make him proud of me, and show him how strong I am, and that “I want to clear your name.” So, until we had cleared that air, that New Year’s morning—and he told me that, “Carol, I didn’t know those guys until I walked into that courtroom. I had never seen them before in my life. So, you may know more than I do.” And he said, “But I can tell you this: that I was on the chain gang. And we was working down south, on the bridge. And I fell into the ocean, the water. And I knew that I had to survive to tell my little girl the truth. Because nobody else would have been able to tell you the truth, because they didn’t know it.” So, he said, “When I came up”—he went under the water the second time, and he knew that somehow, he had to get those boots off in order to get the chain off, to go back up. And when he got back





up, he caught hold to the ram, and they pulled him out of the water. He said, “That’s one instance that I knew I had to survive for my daughter, because I’m the only one to be able to tell her the truth. And I’m thinking, “God, I’m—our lives! The reason that we live, the reason that we have been living, is to impress, or to make the other life! My father living for me, and I’m living for him!”—inside the prison. I’m in prison. He’s in prison. You know? But we both living for the life of each other. And when we cleared that air that morning, we became the best buddies. We were inseparable. And before he died, he told the doctor, “Tell me about this Alzheimer’s. You’ve got to tell me when I’m getting to a point that it’s almost over. You got to tell me the stages.” And the doctor—I remember one morning in the examining room, he said, “Where am I?” And the doctor looked at him, said, “Mr. Greenlee, do you trust your daughter?” And he stood up. And he looked at that doctor and put his hand on his shoulder. “With my life.” And I say— “Daddy!” He said, “But, I don’t want to burden her. But I trust her with my life.” And when my father died that morning, he had his leg up. And I pushed his leg down. And I say, “It’s over.” So, it’s been a long time. Long time. And I promised him that I would not push as long as he lived. It’s too painful. Saw the pain that New Year’s Day, trying to tell me. And I told him I would not push. I said, “But there is another thing—there’s something else I got to do.” And I got to do this. “Don’t be no lawyer, because you would be doing it for the wrong [reasons].” I said, “No, not now. Not now.” I wasn’t going to be going to back to school, be no lawyer. “But as long as you live, I will not push.” But then I got, I have nieces, I have nephews, I have a son. They don’t need to live under that cloud that I grew





up under. So that’s why I’m pushing. I got to exonerate my father. I got to clear his name.

	H:	And how is that process going? When did that begin to pick up steam, and how do you feel about it now?

	G:		It picked up steam when Gary Corsair found my daddy in Nashville, in that little office, and wrote the book.

	H:	The first book.



	G:	The first book. The Groveland Four: Sad Saga of a Legal Lynching. It picked up steam then. But I couldn’t do anything because my father was alive. 20/20 called and said, “We want to do an interview.” “I can’t.” You know.

	H:	And Gary—how did Gary say his last name again, please? G:	Corsair.

	H:	Corsair. Did he come find your father?



	G:	Yes, he did. He and his wife found my father in that unscript little office with no name on the door. No name, no nothing, not—just a number. And he had sent my father many letters that had not been returned. So, he knew somebody was getting the mail. And Gary tells me that he put a card in the door—because there wasn’t nobody there. Didn’t even look like anybody was ever there. So he left, with his wife, he and his wife went to lunch and came back, and that card was gone, but there was a truck. And Gary said he knocked on the door, and this man came to the door. He knew then he was Greenlee. My daddy—Gary said, he said, “Mr. Greenlee, I am—” And Gary said my daddy said, “I know who you are. Now, what can I do for you?” Said, “Mr. Greenlee, may I come in?” Said, “Yeah,





come on in.” Took a seat, and asked my father—Daddy said, “What do you want to know?” And he said, “What can you tell me?” He said, “I can’t tell you anything, because I don’t know anything.” “Well, I’m writing a book.” “I know what you’re—” And it wasn’t until Gary’s wife began to cry, and told my father that it would help her sons, and it would help other young folk, and it would help her, that Daddy said okay, and started talking to Gary.

	H:	So, that was the first book. Started building momentum, and the public started knowing.

	G:	By Gary. I guess that was a rewrite of the first. And then Gilbert’s book. H:	And all the while, are you in contact with the other families?

	G:	Never met them until yesterday.



	H:	Wow. How was that meeting, them?



G:  Yesterday? It was like another part of my life has been realized. Because they are a part of my life. A real part. And sitting there beside Ms. Irvin yesterday— first time. Now, Gary had told me about her, but I had never met her.

H:   And this is Henrietta Irvin, the sister of Walter, right?



	G:	Yes. So, the—it’s almost like it has come full circle. But not quite: because exoneration is my focus, and have been for years. Quietly, I have researched innocence centers, and most of them folks have to be still incarcerated. And I have signed in letters to the governor. We had a big conference down in Lady Lake, where we sent the letter to the governor for exoneration. And I’ve had talks with people that said, “Well, you got to be pardoned first.” And the letter comes back about a pardon. This is not about pardon, for me. This is about a crime—a





so-called crime—that did not happen. So there is no need for a pardon of something you didn’t do! This is all about exoneration. It didn’t happen. So let’s get right up. And I need it for my nieces, Tommy’s children, my son—I need it for my father’s grandchildren, and great-grand that’s coming along. I might not be here when it happens, but we’ll pass the baton on to somebody else to keep it going, until it happens. And it will.

	H:	Absolutely. What about your mother? That’s the last question I’m going to ask.



Tell me about her life, afterwards.



	G:	My mother got married after—years after my father was incarcerated, because he had life in prison. And I have a brother, that’s Kenneth. And we grew up together. My mother, it affected her life to the point that me and my brother couldn’t—we left home together, we came back together. If we were not together when we came home, we had to wait until the other was there before we go in the house. I was raised to take care of my brother. I was oldest; my mother had to work. So, after school, I was the one to cook, to wash dishes. I was the one to be the one to take care of the house when we moved out from our grandmother. I cooked, I cleaned, washed dishes, all of that. And my mother have had three strokes. She’s in a wheelchair now, paralyzed on one side. But as feisty as ever. And she always—never once didn’t doubt it that my father was innocent. Never once. And always told me, “Your father’s innocent. Your father didn’t do that. And don’t let nobody ever tell you he did.”

	H:	Well, Ms. Greenlee, I want to thank you very much for the interview. G:	You’re welcome.











[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Richard Brust and Ryan Morini, July 13, 2016 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero October 3, 2018

	Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 26, 2019