AAHP 055; Ortiz; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 055 Paul Andrew Ortiz African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Joseph DeFrancisco on June 12, 2009 57 minutes | 30 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Dr. Paul Andrew Ortiz describes his beginnings in oral history and his position as the director of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. His official start in oral history was field work experience interviewing elder African Americans in the South, but he also produced a radio program for a few years at Evergreen State College where he interviewed people regarding international issues in Central America. He also interviewed migrant farm workers while working with the United Farm Workers of America. While pursuing his PhD at Duke University, Dr. Ortiz worked on the “Behind the Veil Project,” an oral history project focused on African American life in the Jim Crow South. He began teaching a class called “American Communities,” at Duke University as a graduate student and then again as a professor at the University of California at Santa Cruz. This class evolved into the seminar that Dr. Ortiz currently teaches at the University of Florida. He elaborates on why oral history is such an important field and lists the ways it eliminates racial, political, and age barriers.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; University of Florida; Duke University; Civil Rights Movement; Mississippi Delta; Oral History Pedagogy; Florida Historiography]































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 055

Interviewee: Paul Andrew Ortiz Interviewer: Joseph DeFrancisco Date: June 12, 2009



D:  Hi, this is Joseph DeFrancisco with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida. The date is June 12, 2009, and I am here talking today with University of Florida professor Paul Ortiz about his oral history seminar and involvement in the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program as its director. How are you doing today, Paul?

O:   Good, thank you, Joseph; very well.



	D:	So Professor, can you please tell me a little about your history as a professor of oral history?

	O:	Okay. You know I started teaching oral history in 1996, and before that I had three years of intensive field work experience primarily in the South doing oral histories with primarily elder African Americans about their experiences coming of age in the Jim Crow South. These were folks who were born from around the turn of the century really through the late 1920s, early 1930s. Now that was my main academic experience with oral history. Before that, my first experience with interviewing was as a public radio host and I produced a weekly public radio program called Pathways to Justice, and this was for a public radio station with, interestingly enough, the call letters of k-a-o-s or “chaos,” FM was based on the campus of the Evergreen State College. And it’s really a great radio station. And what I was doing was a weekly program focusing on labor and other social issues. And when you do radio, when you do public affairs on a college campus you have a huge advantage, because there’s always these great speakers coming through. And I was doing this in the late [19]80s, early [19]90s, and that





was really the high tide of the Anti-Apartheid Movement years. It was a big period for peace initiatives in Central America, and I had served in the Army for four years, two of those in Central America in the midst of those horrific civil wars. So I had an interest in international issues, and so anytime I heard that someone was coming through from say, El Salvador or Honduras, I would just try to grab them and say, Hey do you have twenty or thirty minutes to sit down and talk about what you’re doing? And so, and the other origin, I guess, of my oral history experience was also being a labor activist. At that time, I was also working as a organizer with United Farm Workers of America, and one of the things I noticed about that was, you know, here you have these migrant farm workers struggling for better wages and working conditions, and they couldn’t get their stories represented accurately in the media at all. And so what you heard were a lot of stereotypical stories about migrant farm workers, most of whom were migrant, migrants from Mexico, and so the first time I ever did an interview actually was actually picking up a tape recorder and bringing it to a group of workers on a picket line and asking them, Why are you here?

	D:	Okay.



	O:	And just kinda the why and how questions. Now I never picked up an interview guide, I never read about interviewing or oral history or anything. So first I didn’t have any training whatsoever, but I did the radio program for about 3 or 4 years. I started writing a lot and I would incorporate the interviews into my writing. And so unconsciously I was becoming an oral historian. I didn’t know it. I didn’t even know the term existed until one day I got a call from the chair of the history





department at Duke University, and I had been admitted to the program, to the PhD program in History, and he wanted to know if I would be interested in working on this project called, “Behind the Veil,” documenting African American history in the Jim Crow South as an oral historian, and I said, sure. You know I had to pause for a moment, right, for a bit of drama, before I said, yes! Of course I’d love to come here, but that was my fellowship work as a graduate student at Duke. It was an amazing experience, because I spent probably as much time off of campus, away from Duke, away from kinda a lot of the distractions of the university, and a lot of—the first interview that I ever did—my recollection is, I mean I could be wrong about this, but certainly one of the first interviews was to drive out to rural eastern North Carolina. And the only equivalent I can think of in Florida is if you were sent out—if I sent you to do an interview in the panhandle, and I told you to go to a town you never heard existed and may or may not be on the map. And that was the size of the town that I was sent to go do this interview at, and I had no experience with rural eastern North Carolina. And when I say that, what I mean is that the rural part of the eastern part of North Carolina is really the old slave plantation part of the state. And so driving out there to a place I had never been to before, I’ve just read about, and sitting down to do interviews was really a profound experience for me because I was out of my comfort zone. I was the only non-Black person in this town as far as I could tell, and people really kind of just took me in. I had enough interview experience by then to know that if you wanted to do good oral history work you really had to—you know you had to empathize, you had to really make people feel comfortable with you. Now the fact





that I was from Duke University didn’t make anyone feel comfortable at all, because in North Carolina Duke has a—oftentimes a very negative image, because the university has been associated, quite rightly, very often, with replicating existing power relations like segregation. For decades Duke was really a training ground, if you will, for the segregated south. I mean a lot of the leaders of that system came out of Duke University and other elite universities in the country—both north and south. In fact one of the people that I became quite close with was a retired faculty member, a Jewish faculty member by the name of Jack Price. And Professor Price was one of the first faculty members of Duke University, and he got there in the late [19]50s, early [19]60s—but he was in the first cohort of assistant professors who refused to agree to live in an all-White neighborhood. And at that time as a faculty member—as a prospective faculty member—you had to sign an agreement saying that you would not live in a mixed neighborhood.

	D:	Wow.



	O:	And Duke could get away with this because it was a private university, and it could just do whatever it wanted. And my point is that the university was fairly—in my mind associated with segregation—it was a historically White institution. So coming from Duke, and presuming to interview African Americans was challenging because of Duke’s history. It didn’t just have a bad history with Black folks, it had a bad history with a lot of White folks who had worked in one of the Durham tobacco factories. Duke was a huge tobacco family. They made American tobacco, Bull Durham, you may have the seen the film or heard about





it. And so a lot of folks had very mixed feelings about Duke. And so having that handicap for me as an oral historian, it actually turned out to be a good thing because I really learned how to put myself in someone else’s shoes, and to think about what it means to be interviewed by someone who is perceived as not being on the good side.

	D:	Right.



	O:	Right, and I had to convince people I was not an agent of Duke University.



	D:	Ok, so would I be correct in saying that the “Behind the Veil Project” was your first experience in studying African American life in the Jim Crow South, and that’s what really sparked your interest in the study in that field?

	O:	Well I had a lot of prior experiences with Black history. I was always interested in Black history going back to an early age, but that was my first extended experience in doing oral histories in Black communities, yes.

	D:	Okay.



	O:	And the project was directed by the man actually who became my dissertation and PhD advisor, William Chafe, or Bill Schafe, as people call him. But one of my first—I guess I could talk about a lot of different experiences. I did a documentary on Paul Robeson when I was doing my radio program, and Paul Robeson was this larger-than-life African American performer, athlete, civil rights activist, labor activist, and very active in the [19]30s and [19]40s and [19]50s. And he was put on a Black list because—by the U.S. government—because he was accused of being a communist sympathizer, so they pulled his passport. He was a remarkable person for a number of different reasons. One he spoke fluently





between like 20 and 22 different languages, and he would learn a language in order to learn how to sing the folk songs of that particular group or nation, and so for example he learned Yiddish so he could sing Yiddish folk songs. He learned Spanish; he learned a dialect of Chinese.

	D:	Impressive.



	O:	Yea, really amazing person. So I did a documentary about him, a radio documentary—it lasted about forty-five minutes, and I played it on my show, and I got a call almost immediately afterward from some school teachers at a local middle school. And the middle school teachers told me that they were having huge racial problems in their school, and could I come and do a course on Black history for the kids. It would be a volunteer course, they wouldn’t be required to attend it, but it would part of what that school—a lot of schools have an extra period, which kids can vote on what kind of activity they participate in. I don’t know if this is true in Florida, but in Washington State it’s kind of an institution.

And so I think there they called it like, seventh period. You could either choose to go play basketball or baseball, or you could take a class, right?

	D:	Okay.



	O:	So anyway, these kids would choose to study Black history. Interestingly enough, the racial problems were not between Black and White kids. In the Northwest you don’t have that as much. The racial problems were between White kids and Pacific Islanders, and there were tensions. And so the teachers thought that teaching Black history—teaching another racial history experience, would somehow get the kids to thinking about you know interacting with each other.





	D:	Right.



	O:	Right. Well I was told, I don’t know this for sure, but apparently the kids said it worked, the teachers said it worked. You know, they said somehow that teaching the course really got the kids to thinking about, Hey, just because someone looks different than I do, doesn’t mean they’re, you know, the enemy.

	D:	So you really got through to them, that’s good.



	O:	I think so, I mean that’s what everyone said. And then the next quarter, their next term, whatever you know the term they used, the kids actually voted for me to teach the course again. And then they petitioned their school to have this course in Black history be made a permanent part of their curriculum. Well you know, I often hear as an historian, people will say, Well you know Americans aren’t that interested in history, kids hate history, they think it’s boring, but I always think back to that experience. I mean they loved the history, I mean they just sucked it up. And these were like seventh graders, and I took them through a curriculum on Black history that started with slavery, segregation, I mean all the stuff that we’re talking about in our seminar this term, and I didn’t pull any punches and they really adopted that history and made it their own. That harkens back to my earlier experiences I had with race relations growing up in my hometown of Bremerton, Washington, which again, the racial tensions—the big ones were really primarily between White kids and Pacific Islanders. You know Washington state is a Pacific rim state, right it’s really at the heart of that Pacific economy, and I also grew up in a shipyard town—a Navy town. And so there were a lot of Pacific Islander families, and a lot of inner marriage, and my recollection of this in





high school is that the Hispanic kids, and there were only a few of us, maybe 4 or 5 of us in a school of maybe fifteen-hundred students. And a few more Black students, but no more than maybe seventy or eighty at the most. You know less, way less

	D:	Way less.



	O:	But again the major tensions seemed to be between the Pacific Islander students and the White students. And I remember one occasion in particular, hanging out with a group of Black friends—it was a group of friends we played football, so we hung out quite a bit in different sports, and a couple of our White co-players coming up to us—and these are guys who played football and said, Hey w’ere gonna have a fight out back of the school, because you know some of these Pacific Islander guys are trying to date White girls. And so we want you to come out and join us, and I’m standing there with one or two Black and Hispanic friends [Laughter] and we’re like, Hey, this is not our fight. We really don’t care.

And so they got really pissed off at us. They were like, You guy are—you know we thought we could count on you, you know, we thought you were down with us, and we were like, Well, I’m sorry; it’s just not our fight. And so they went back and they had their rumble and everything, and I don’t remember what the outcome of it was. And then later going into the Army, I noticed that there was this amazing group this amazing dynamic of how the ways in which people mix in the Army across lines of race and class and experience—and the units that I served in—I mean the 82nd Airborne, there were a lot of African Americans. I mean in my unit probably about a third of the unit was either Black or Hispanic.





And I started you know, asking Black friends from the South—now this is the first time I encountered African Americans who had lived in the South. First time I encountered, you know, White folks that lived in the South, but I also served with a lot of non-U.S. citizens as well. I mean you know, from the Hispanic Caribbean also. So it was really an amazing mix of people from different backgrounds. I grew up—you know my father told me about Jim Crow in Houston, Texas, and he told me, he said he always had a lot of Black friends, but that there was these tremendous tensions, but it wasn’t just a Black and White situation. So I guess growing up hearing my father’s stories and having some experiences kind of really got me interested in Black history.

	D:	Wow, all right. So I have a couple questions now about our undergraduate seminar that I am currently enrolled in. I was just wondering how you put together the course, and I know that you had taught a similar course back in 1996, and I was wondering if you had to make any changes to the course due to things that you had learned from then, and—

	O:	Yea. Yea ,I have, and what I’m gonna do Joseph, is I will give you a copy of the old syllabus. I found one recently from [19]97. I haven’t been able to find a [19]96 syllabus, but I definitely found one from 1997. So the [19]96 course was the first time I taught a course called American Communities, and that was a course which had been taught at the Center for Documentary Studies at Duke University, and it was—the center was the place where the “Behind the Veil” or “Remembering Jim Crow” project was based at physically. It wasn’t in the history department. We were you know maybe—we were literally across the tracks from





the history department. I mean both metaphorically and in reality. [Laughter] And when you crossed the tracks over to the center, you were much closer to the larger or the broader community. I always thought of the history department as being somewhat cloistered in certain ways, and kind of almost isolated, but we were expected in the Center for Documentary Studies to be in the community.

And this really sets us apart as oral historians, because I found the same thing to be true here. When I got the job here, one of my first expectations is that as a research director of a major research institute at the University of Florida, part of my job is to be out in Gainesville, out in Florida. And so that makes what we do here a little different than some of the other research centers. I mean not as if they’re all like you know cloistered and isolated, but it’s just assumed that the oral history center is going to be a place that tries to bridge the gaps between the broader community, the state, and the university. So the reason I started teaching that course, and the reason it was called American Communities was that the idea was to take students from Duke University campus and get them out into Durham. Easier said than done, because Duke historically has been very isolated. There’s a huge town gown divide, that’s always been there. You didn’t have your first Black students attending the university until the mid to late 1960s. And so the idea of the American Communities was to actually—we help some, and the first time I taught the course, it was co-taught. I co-taught it with a really talented artist. Her name was, was Ginger… I think her last name was Young.

And we co-taught the course, and by design we held several of the sessions off of campus, in the Black community in Durham. And we took the first couple of





weeks—we took the students out and we did a tour of Black Durham. And you know, low and behold I got calls from some of the parents of the students. And many of these students are fabulously—they come from enormously wealthy backgrounds. I mean old, old money. Not just, Oh, my parents made their fortunes in the 1940s or [19]50s, but you know the fortunes sometimes go back to the 18—

	D:	Generations…



	O:	Yea. So and some of them did grow up in very isolated situations. Not that I’m trying to stereotype, not all of them did. But some of them did. And so, sometimes I get calls from parents and they’d say, I can’t believe you took my daughter or son into that, into that city. You know, it’s a dangerous place you’re putting them in. And I said, “Well you know, sir or ma’am, thank you for calling, I appreciate your call, but you know it was very safe. We had a guide. I can assure you that I wouldn’t put the students into any jeopardy.” But I’m telling you this to give you a sense of the divide between the university and the community. And the reason that we did the course was to try to kind of in part break down that divide, but to demonstrate that when you break it down you can really unearth some amazing histories, some amazing stories. And so, I think in our class you’ve seen or maybe I haven’t shown it yet, but if I haven’t I should, the first ever American Communities class project, which was in 1996. My students in that seminar created a website based on their interviews. They got pictures, they made some sound files from their tapes you know, and when you look at it now it’s almost kinda funny, because it was a website created in [19]96, but then it





was really innovative, you know, right. So, um I taught the course for a few years there as a graduate student. I mean that was the first university course that I ever taught, and you know I taught it a few more times, and then my first gig as a tenure-track professor was at the University of California at Santa Cruz. There I didn’t teach oral history as much for the first few years, and when I did start teaching it, I taught a graduate seminar. And it wasn’t really community based, it was more hinged—it really hinged on the grad students, you know on their research. I asked them to bring their own research topics into the seminar and to conduct at least one or two interviews that really spoke to their research projects. And so that’s not really as much of a community-based model. I mean our course is maybe, I guess, a hybrid, so we’re doing interviews with folks who live out in the community. We’re holding all the classes on campus, but in part that’s because I wasn’t able to find you know a place off campus for us to meet at. I’m still relatively new to Gainesville. I think you know next summer if we do the course, I think we found a place that we can do some of that you know meeting off of campus. But yea, it’s much more difficult to teach this course in the summer. We only have 6 weeks, it’s hard to kind of cram everything in, you know, and I feel bad because I really have to put the speed up to you guys in terms of the time you have to transcribe is not a lot of time. And so you know it calls for challenges. At the same time, I think it’s nice to do a course like this in the summer, you know it’s kind of a change of pace for a lot of the students, and certainly for me. I mean usually when I teach a seminar, it’s more, you know





getting up and giving lectures, and people taking notes—I mean this one, it’s much more interactive, so it’s a lot funner to teach.

	D:	All right. Definitely, I agree with that. I have had a good time so far with this course, and I definitely enjoyed the two books that we read, Remembering Jim Crow and Emancipation Betrayed, which you wrote Emancipation Betrayed, and I believe you and a few other colleagues had published Remembering Jim Crow, is that...

	O:	Yea.



	D:	Okay, so I was just interested in knowing, kinda what was the process and the steps that you undertook to go about finding people to interview, and really the process of writing those two books, because they were solely based on the interviews of African Americans, right?

	O:	Yea. Well it’s a really good question, Joseph. I have to really think back, because, I mean there were a lot of us working on that the “Behind the Veil Project,” and probably a total of twenty-five interviewers I’d say, just ball park, and each of us had different styles, you know different interviewing styles, different ways of getting interviews. What we tried to do, is we would—because we were based at Duke, and because we were traveling to different parts of the South, we would try to do pre-visits, and we would always partner with a local institution, and we would try to partner with a historically Black college. So for example in Tuskegee, Alabama, we partnered with a couple of historians based at that university. And Tuskegee of course is historically a Black institution, and but in Birmingham we partnered with the Birmingham Civil Rights Institute. And





so we relied on those types of organizations to help us generate an initial list of people to interview, and it really was a kind of a quid-pro quo reciprocity situation because part of the premise of what we were doing was is we were saying, you know we’re coming to this community, we’re going to try to do as many interviews as we can, and we’re gonna share these interviews with the local repository that sponsors us because we want to you know kind of quote un- quote, “give something back.” And that wasn’t the original research plan. We just learned that over time, that no one was going to work with us unless we offered to share the interviews with them. Because many of these communities by that time, by the [19]90s already had been really exploited in the sense that you had generations of historians and anthropologists and economists, so on and so forth, who’d come down to a small community, would do interviews, leave, publish dissertations or studies, and never have any contact with that community whatsoever. Right, and so people would say well, why should I participate with you?

	D:	Right.



	O:	And so we evolved that that system of reciprocity. Now we would rely on an initial list of folks to interview. I mean really like we’re doing in the seminar at UF, but as you know, there’s always glitches. And so, sometimes people turn out to not want to be interviewed. You know they have painful experiences, they really don’t want to share them. “Why would I want to talk to you?” And you have to remember, I mean, we’re complete outsiders in most of these communities, and just so I show up one day and you know [chuckles] in the Mississippi Delta





asking people if I can interview them. I mean they’re like, you know, “What are you talking about?” I would go to museum heads, sometimes I would call civic organizations. The masons were incredibly helpful, and in one community I worked in in the Mississippi Delta, I did a series of interviews up and down the Delta, guided up and down there by members of the Black Masons in Mississippi. What I didn’t know going to Mississippi was that Mississippi has the largest per capita membership, at least among men, in the Masonic organization—among African Americans. Every African American that I ever met in the Mississippi Delta is a member of the Masons. And the rings, the handshakes, the gestures, you know it’s just it’s really amazing, and to be successful you have to know things like that. It’s not like I’m going to become a member of the Black Masons, but at the same time this was an organization that was, in a sense adopted me.

And so, you know, I would be doing an interview in a small town, say Marks, Mississippi, and the person I interviewed would say, Okay well I want… you can do an interview with so-and-so down the road in Ruleville. And I’d say, Well who is it? And they’d say, Well here’s the name, when you get into town someone will give you the address. Stop at the first gas station. I’d say, Oh wow [chuckles]. So I’d go to the next town thirty miles down the road, stop in the gas station. The man behind the counter knew exactly who I was right away. I’d say, Hi my name is… “Oh you don’t have to tell me who you are, I got the name of the person you’re gonna interview, the phone number, the address, this is where it is.” And, so that’s what I mean by people you know kind of adopting me, you know kind of up and down the Delta and other places that I did interviews in. Sometimes





though I would cold-call. I mean I would call, and this is where knowing the history is really critical, you know knowing that AFSCME has been a union with heavy Black leadership and involvement. We ran out of interviews to do in Tallahassee, Florida. That was one of our main research sites in the summer of [19]94, and so I cold-called the Union headquarters. I called the AFSCME downtown Tallahassee, I said, Are there any retired Black members who you think would be willing to be interviewed? And they said right away, You need to talk to Laura Dixie, she’s one of the founders of the Union here in the hospital. So I went out to talk to her; I interviewed her and her husband. You’ll see in the epigraph of Emancipation Betrayed, I dedicate the book to the Dixie family. And that was Laura, A.I., and Sam. A.I and Sam have passed away. Laura is still alive, but that meeting was completely—you could say on one hand it was accidental, it was a cold-call, but again knowing the importance of this institution in the Black community was the thing that really allowed me to make that you know that contact. Not everyone I talked to was, was as forthcoming or as helpful, again there were a lot of hesitations. Sometimes I’d go to talk to people to try to kind of get interviews and, and hit road blocks. I mean one example I’ll never forget: the first day or two I was in the Mississippi Delta, and at that time, for me driving into the Delta was like driving into a foreign country. And that’s one of the reasons why I take UF students there to this day. Because I want the students to have an experience of going to a place that’s completely different than any other place they have ever been in their entire lives. And today you heard Christine talk about you know--and really when the students--when we





leave Jackson, Mississippi, and we head north, I mean the students start asking these serious questions. [Laughter] It doesn’t matter how many pictures I show them, it doesn’t matter how many excerpts of a book that they read, they’re not prepared. It’s an intense experience, because on the one hand you’re going to a region which is generated roughly fifty percent of what you and I consider to be American culture. And at the same time, you’re going to a region which is still incredibly impoverished, but at the same time you can see these enormous disparities of wealth. So one block is the block where the plantation owners lived, and then the alleyway is where their servants lived. I mean it’s just that stark. But anyway, so I’m brand new in the Mississippi Delta, it’s the middle of July. I’m wilting, it is so incredibly hot, and I had served in the Army in Central America, tromped around in jungles for two years. But I never remember being as hot as I was in Mississippi. I mean the first time I got out of my air-conditioned car, and I had drove down from North Carolina, and I got out of the car, and I was in… I think I was in Indianola, or maybe a town further north. I got out of the air- conditioned car and almost fainted.

	D:	Wow.



	O:	It was one hundred fourteen degrees. And that was the last time I used the air conditioning in the car that summer, because you can’t go from air conditioning to that kind of heat. It’s more intense than Gainesville. So anyway, but I went to a museum. I went to what, at that time, was one of the major museums in the Delta. I’m not gonna reveal the identity of the museum for reasons which will become clear pretty soon. So I go to the museum, I kinda look through it. It’s a





museum, which tells the history of the Delta, you know especially the history of agriculture, technological changes, the people, so on and so forth. I mean the first thing you notice is that there aren’t that many Black people represented in the museum, which is curious because it was Black labor which built the Delta. So that’s kind of a foot note. So I go and I talk to the director, a highly educated woman. She’s in her I’d say, well she—early 70s at that time. And I introduced myself, give her my little business card, Hi I’m a graduate student from Duke University working on this project, she said, Oh I’ve heard about this project. And I said, “Well do you know of any elderly African Americans who would be willing to be interviewed by us?” You know assuming that because she was the museum director she might you know of folks. And without skipping a beat, she said, “Well no, you know all of the happy Blacks have moved away.” And I said, “Excuse me?” And she said, “Well you know, when I was growing up”—and she proceeded to tell the story. As a little girl she grew up and she said, “Yeah, you know, I would hang out in their alleyways and I would hear them tell stories about slavery, and they were always happy and dancing and they just”—then she said, “All the happy ones moved away in the 1940s.” So this is 1995, and so I had to think a little bit. I was like, Okay, fifty years, it’s [Laughter]… so I said, “Really, they all moved away in the 1940s?” She said, “Yeah.” She said, “If you would have been here back then, you could have gotten interviews with them, but unfortunately now I just don’t know of any.” And so for me as a student of American history that was a really important exchange to think about. And I still think about it. I mean what does it mean? Because she grew up in a world where





she felt as if she was integrated in a certain way with Black people, but that sometime around World War II she lost that insight into Black communities and had not had it for fifty years. And so, I you know, thanked her and, you know, just kind of drove away. [Laughter] And I thought, Well I wouldn’t have to come back to this place because she doesn’t know anyone that I could possibly talk to. So yeah, it was an incredibly educational experience, and again it got me out of the ivory tower situation. And being in oral history—I mean so today as director of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, I’m also a professor of history here at UF. I have a office in the history department, I love the history department, I love the students, I love my colleagues, but I spend ninety-nine percent of my time here in the oral history program, just because there’s so much to do here, and you know there’s so many people to interview. And it’s a world where I feel much more comfortable in many ways. It’s full of unknowns. You never know what’s gonna happen. I mean when I was—I cold-called people to interview for our class. And some of the people I knew, a lot of the people I didn’t know. So I get a chance to meet new people, and so it’s always kinda refreshing, there’s always a surprise. Things are never as they seem to be [Laughter] you know. I still love archival history. There’s nothing more that I love than going to the stacks, reading microfilm reels, and all of that. But at the same time getting a chance to go out and interview someone about history is really, for me, a profound experience.

D:  So, I guess let me ask you this question then. What do you feel that oral history would offer to the modern scholar looking to research and go back and listen to interviews, that other forms of history don’t offer?





	O:	What it offers is its emphasis on the story. And in some ways it’s almost a primal thing. Humans are wired to be storytellers. And as best as we can tell, for most of our existence as a species—we pass down knowledge using stories. Writing is a relatively recent phenomenon in the human species. And so we know that we’re wired to tell stories, and we love to tell stories. And to me that’s the major—that’s kind of the signature element of oral history, is not that it allows us to kind of be more primitive, but in a way it kind of goes back to, you know, if you had a grandmother or grandfather and you remember the power of the story that they told. And it allows also—the other thing that makes it unique is it brings generations, different age cohorts together in ways that—well you remember maybe the first day or two of our oral history seminar this term, I asked you guys a question. I said how many of you have talked to a person over the age of fifty who’s not an immediate family member or a boss? And how many people raised their hands?

D:  None, not many. O:  Not many, yeah. D:  If any.

O:   If any.



D:   I know I didn’t raise my hand. [Laughter]



	O:	Yeah we live in a very age-segregated world now. And so that’s another reason why I love oral history because you break down some of those barriers. It isn’t just that you’re breaking down racial barriers, or political barriers. I mean you’re breaking down age barriers. When I was a kid, my father would actually… he





grew up in the old school, and we always had chores to do. We had a long list of chores before we could get to the ball field, right? And sometimes he would— instead of letting us go to the ball field—he’d send me across—the kiddie-corner from our house was a nursing home, or what we call now a nursing home. It was the place where most of the World War I veterans and World War II veterans who were old enough went to die. And my dad would send me over there to talk to them. And I would think, well what am I supposed to… and he would just say, Well just go and listen to them. And it was kind of, I think his way of like teaching me something, in a way. Most of the most of the elders in my town were veterans of either one of those two world wars, or Korea or Vietnam. And so the experience that I had was very power… I mean I didn’t understand what these guys were saying. I mean I… in later years the stories resonated with me when I went into the military, but at the time I had no idea what they were saying. I just knew that I had to stay there a certain period of time. But I guess that that’s one of the things that drew me into oral history was the power of story-telling, the lack of contact—not just between generations, but really between people and the society. I may have shown you a clip in class where Studs Terkel, the great oral historian is talking, and he’s kind of joking. He’s being interviewed, and he’s the one who’s used to doing the interview, right? But now he’s being interviewed, and he’s kind of joking. He’s typing, he’s using an old manual type writer. And he says, I don’t know how to use a computer. I don’t know what hardware is, I don’t know what software is. I never wanted to learn how to use a computer, Studs Terkel tells us, because he feels that the computer takes us away from face to





face contact. And so that if I’m doing a research project on you, the first thing I do is, instead of calling you, Joseph, on the phone and saying, Hey can you tell me about your life story? I Google you, right? And you know that’s a valid way of doing research, but I mean Studs Terkel, his point is he didn’t want to sit in front of a computer screen to learn about the world, he wanted to get out into the world to learn about it. And so, I think that’s—I mean not that I’m trying to romanticize oral history, because I do look at it is an intellectual academic discipline with certain parameters and certain rules. But at the same time, it is different than the standard history that I do in the sense that, again, it requires me to get out there and to go into worlds that I’m very unfamiliar with. All the way from a rural Mississippi or Arkansas Delta world, or a shattered industrial neighborhood in Birmingham, to Jupiter Island, Florida, you know the richest community in the country. I mean these are radically different worlds, and I’m not native to any of them. And people have sometimes asked me, Well why do you do African American—why don’t you do—in fact when I was in graduate school, some of my well-meaning advisors would say, Well Paul, you know we think you could do a really good dissertation on Mexican American history. And I would think about it and I would say, Well yeah, you know, I could, but I already kind of know that history. [Laughter] You know I was brought up in it, and I love reading, and I teach you know this day I teach Latino Studies as one of the things I do at UF. But I didn’t come to college to learn about… my community, you know I came to college to learn about other communities, other experiences. And so you know going down to Jupiter Island and doing an interview with someone who comes





from a completely different background than I come from, for me is really exciting. Now does that mean that I’m looking to move to Jupiter Island? Well no. Number one, I couldn’t afford to live there. But I learned something new the two days that I was there. I learned a completely different culture. People speak English there, but it’s a different language. It’s different kind of English. But at the same time, you know going to different places—you know I did work in Southern Louisiana, fieldwork down there. Well there, what I learned was that White folks and Black folks don’t even necessarily consider themselves to be Americans.

They’re Creoles, right? It’s a mixture of peoples. And so I learned something new there. So it’s a world in which I’m constantly being surprised.

	D:	Sounds great. That’s excellent. So I know you are the director of the Samuel Proctor Oral History program here at UF, and um I’m just really wondering what the University of Florida oral history program’s role is in documenting African American history, civil rights, and race relations, really?

	O:	Mhm. Well we’ve been around since 1967, and our founder Samuel Proctor really emphasized three different types of interviews. One type of oral history interview was, well the first big major project that we embarked upon in the early [19]70s was a long oral history project with Seminoles and Native Americans of the Southeast. In fact, that’s what the name of the project was called. And the other kind of interview that Sam pursued was what you’d kind of call institutional histories of UF. And so it became a standard practice that we would try to interview retiring faculty members. We would also interview the sitting president of the university, and the provost, and the top officials, you know every year or so





during their terms of office. And we didn’t really get much into African American history until the early [19]80s, and there was a young man by the name of Joel Buchannan. And Joel, it turns out, was the first Black male student to integrate Gainesville High School in, I think, [19]63 or [19]64. And he graduated from Gainesville High School, he went to UF as an undergraduate, graduated from here, and then ended up doing a series of oral histories in Gainesville’s Black community primarily centered around Fifth Avenue. And we called it then, it was called the Fifth Avenue Blacks Collection; it’s called the Fifth Avenue African American History Collection. Joel did about fifty oral history interviews, and those really became the foundation of our Black history holdings. To be perfectly frank with you Joseph, we are somewhat behind some of our peer institutions—UNC Chapel Hill for example, in terms of the number of interviews that we’ve done with African Americans. And that’s part of the reason why when I designed our course, the American Communities, is I was thinking, okay, this is one way for us to really get a solid number of interviews with Black Gainesville, and really kind of—because in many ways I think it wasn’t that Sam was ignoring African American history, it was that I think he had so many other things on his plate. But now we’re at this really critical moment, and I think you heard President Machen mention this in his welcoming remarks for the March 17th event, which I played for you guys in class. He said we’re really at a crisis point where we have a generation of African Americans who are in their seventies and eighties, who are the last generation who came of age before Brown V. Board. And they can really share with us. When we listen to their stories, then and only then do we





understand how far we’ve come, and how far we need to go as a nation in terms of politics and race, and the way that you and I interact with each other. And so the Proctor Program, I’m very proud to say, has a solid collection, a solid African American history collection, but really has a long way to go in terms of both numbers—which we’re trying to bolster. But we also want to really work with other university’s institutions. I mean we’re putting together a collaborative grant project now with scholars at Ohio State University. We’re working with the—UNC Chapel Hill has really one of the premier oral history programs in the country.

We’re working with them on a project that they call “The Long Civil Rights Movement Oral History Project.” And we are in dialogue with a lot of the other oral history programs, and we’re just trying to do what we can to do rigorous oral histories, along different topics. The March 17th event, which we just had in 2009, was really designed to, again, kind of ramp up the gathering and preservation/ promotion of Black history. And I think it was pretty successful, and opened a lot of doors for us, and actually it generated a lot of the interviews that we’re doing this term. I mean this was the first time that we met a lot of the individuals that you guys are interviewing. They came to campus, and it was a big deal. And a lot of people would call me and they’d say, Well we’ve never been to the university. We’ve lived in Gainesville our whole lives. We never have felt really welcomed here before. So it was really this profound experience. You got to be willing to take chances, you know [Laughter] in oral history, you really, because you do, you know there are the awkward moments. I mean, look, if I have a choice of sitting down with a microfilm reader that can’t talk back to me, I would spend all





day. You can ask my wife. I’ll spend all day looking at microfilm from the 1860s or 1940s or whatever. Sitting down and meeting a complete stranger—man, that’s scary! You’ve got to put yourself out there, you’ve got to take chances, and it’s—I still get scared. I mean we’ve been kind of joking about this in class. I stutter in my interviews, and I’ve done hundreds of them. And there’s still those moments of uncertainty in the very beginning where I can’t even think of a question to ask. [Laughter] You know I have like twenty questions on a piece of paper, I’m like “Uh…” [Laughter] you know? And at times, I mean the people that we interview here, again it’s a whole range of people, you know, from U.S. senators to college presidents, to community activists. And you’re constantly kind of shifting intellectual gears, because—you know one week for example, we interviewed

U.S. Senator Bill Nelson, we interviewed a former provost of the university, and then we interviewed a retired custodian. And three radically different life experiences, you know here just at UF. You know, not to mention when we go out to the rest of the state… so you know.

	D:	That’s great. It really sounds like a [break in recording]. O:	So what was the last question you asked?

	D:	We were just talking about the University of Florida’s role in documenting the race relations, and civil rights and you were discussing…

	O:	Oh right, okay, yeah. Well and I think the March 17th event, the “Black History: Where We Stand in the Age of Barack Obama.” I think it played a big role, not just for the campus, but again I think it brought together a lot of different groups of people. And you know White, Black, Hispanic, you know a lot of students, a lot





of people who really again don’t necessarily see UF as a resource for them or as a place that they normally interact in, but really that evening, came onto campus. And then I think we learned a lot, those of us from the campus community, and I think one of the things we’re finding out in the seminar is that there are a tremendous amount of historians out in this local community, and storytellers, and unsolved mysteries, and amazing stories to learn from and to tell. And I think we’re just now beginning to figure that out. We always knew the stories were out there, but now we’re actually going out and getting them.

	D:	The information to be gained is really quite limitless when you’re doing interviews and finding out people’s stories.

	O:	It really is.



	D:	That’s great. So really, I only have one more question I really want to ask you, professor. What do you hope people in the future, fifty, one hundred years from now, will gain, take away, learn from listening to the interviews that my class is doing with our local Black leaders out in the community?

	O:	Well yeah, I’ve been thinking about this, Joseph, and I think that your—I think the interviews that you and the class are doing are going to be used by people fifty to one hundred years from now in ways that we can’t even imagine. I think one of the dramatic moments in American history—or several of the dramatic moments in American history happened just in the last ten years. And you know, you had issues like you know—where you had events like the election of Barack Obama. You had the Iraq War, you had 9/11, you had major changes in politics and you had the first viable female candidate for president in the history of the country. So





it’s been a pretty happening decade, and I think what’s gonna happen is we’re gonna find—I mean those of us who are still around fifty years from now, are gonna find out that when students—when a UF student who is sitting in Keene- Flint, or wherever the history department is fifty years from now, and is assigned to do a project on early 21st Century America, our collection—or I should say your collection of interviews—of those twenty-four or twenty-five interviews is gonna be one of the first places they go to. Because they’re gonna have to find the A, they’re gonna say, Oh these were interviews that were conducted by UF students in the summer of 2009, what a great source! And they’re going to kind of comb through those interviews. And I think they’re gonna be looking for a whole wide range of things, and I think one of the things they’ll be looking for is, What was American culture like back then? And what kind of music were people listening to? What types of interactions were people having? Who knows how big UF will be by then? I mean, if some of our administrators have their way it will be much smaller. [Laughter] Right? So maybe they’re doing the research project in a university which isn’t quite as large any more. Maybe the football team hasn’t won a national championship for forty-five years by then, right? Sad to think of, but—

	D:	That would be sad.



O:  But you know maybe the university’s known for different things by then. Maybe UF is now known in the year 2060 as the women’s softball power of the nation. And you know maybe the men’s baseball power of the nation, right? But I think that there are gonna be that these future historians and future students writing





honors theses, and dissertations or journalists combing the archives. I mean they’re gonna have a whole range of questions that we can’t even imagine. But I think that part of what they’re gonna do is they’re going to treat our interviews as almost contemporary history types of interviews. In other words, you and I in that seminar are thinking historically—we’re trying to kind of push ourselves back to the 1970s, 1960s, 1950s. But I think that a lot of the people who use our interviews in the year 2060 are going to use them to try to document what life was like in 2009. And I think they’re going to get a fascinating snapshot of that life and that culture.

	D:	Definitely. Well, I’d like to thank you Professor Ortiz for sitting here and doing the interview with me. I was just wondering if there is anything else you’d like to add to the tape before I turn the recorder off?

	O:	Well, you know I appreciate the opportunity to be interviewed, we’re very proud of the work we do here at the UF oral history program, and I think we’re one of the programs that, you know, we’re basically trying to document you know different histories, different types of stories. It’s a fabulous place to work, incredible staff, and you know one of the premier programs in the country. I’m very proud to be associated with it, and I think we’ll just continue keeping on.

We’ll teach the seminar in the future and do more research projects, and just continue to hear and listen to great stories.

	D:	Excellent. Sounds good. Thank you. O:	Thank you.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Unknown



	Audit edited by:	Holland Hall, April 11, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019