AAHP 555; Ferrell; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 555 William Ferrell Interviewed by Julian Valdivia on March 7, 2018

1 hour 8 minutes | 32 pages



Abstract: In this interview, William Ferrell talks about his life growing up in Americus, Georgia. His family moved to Ft. Myers Florida when he was five. As he got older, he worked as an usher in the Grand Theater in Ft. Myers. He also served in the United States Army. After leaving the army, Ferrell went to Michigan to work in a steel factory. Ferrell also talks about his experiences as a police officer during time of pre and post segregation. He discusses the race riot of 1971 in Ft. Myers and how it started. He also discusses life in Ft. Myers and what it was like for a Black person. Ferrell has also been an active member of St. Johns First Missionary Baptist Church.



Keywords: [African American History; Americus, Georgia; Ft. Myers, Florida; Franklin Arms Hotel; Civil Right Movement; Race Riot of 1971; United State Army; Ft. Myers Police Department; Broward County]



AAHP 555

Interviewee: William “Coot” Ferrell Interviewer: Julian C. Valdivia Date: March 7, 2018



	V:		Alight, so this Julian Valdivia with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. This interview is for the Lee County African American History Project. And I’m in Fort Myers, off Saint Charles St., speaking with Mr. William “Coot” Ferrell Jr.

	F:	Um-hm



	V:	Mr. Ferrell, thank you for doing this interview with us. F:	Okay it’s a pleasure.

	V:	Alight so I wanted to ask you then, because we were talking about it before, what inspired you to become a police officer? Because you were first Black police officer to retire from the Fort Myers Police Department.

	F:	Well you know when I was going to school, I was the school patrol man at the school and then after I graduated I had three friends of mine-

	V:	Okay.



	F:	They needed another officer. They only had three and they needed four. So they got together and then they choose me over or more applicants. So that was in 1966. September the 2nd, 1966. So I really was inspired after I talked with my wife about it and she says, “If that’s something you want to do, go for it.” And I did, I went for it and when I first joined we didn’t go to the academy.

	V:	Uh-huh.



	F:	You know because of segregation. Segregation was real prevalent back then, we couldn’t arrest White people.

	V:	At that time?





	F:	Uh-huh, we’d patrol. So I figure, I asked them if a White man come into my area and he breaks the law, what am I supposed to do? He said, well just hold em and call the White officers.

	V:	[Chuckles]



	F:	And that’s really true. But I took that you know because that was my ambition to be a police, you know. In fact when I joined I know they had these strict laws, segregation laws, and we weren’t able to patrol the White neighborhoods; only thing we’d patrol was our neighborhood out here you know. So finally, we had less pay than White officers. The White officers was making eighty-five, we was making sixty-five.

	V:	Over what period?



	F:	From [19]66, 1966 to might be 1973. V:	Okay.

	F:	[19]73, then we got equal pay along with the whites. Then we also went to the Police Academy. You know, it was about four or five years before we was able to go to the academy to find what really policing was all about. The techniques and stuff like that you know. They always treated us nice. They always treated us nice. It’s just when, we’d call it across the tracks, you know back then we called it the tracks, the White neighborhood, the White people, they just couldn’t accept it. You know a Black man coming to their house and knocking on a door, the front door, usually if you go to a house you gotta go to the back door.

	V:	Yeah.





	F:	You know so you’d knock on the door and they just weren’t used to that so we had to get used to it [Chuckles]. They’d call me all kinds a names, but long as you put your hand behind your back you can call me anything, just don’t test me.

	V:	[Laughter]



F:  Don’t test me. And don’t talk about my family, you know my family, I’m out here patrolling, not my family. You know, Ima get the respect and you might not want to give it to me, but I’m going to demand that.

V:   Uh-huh.



F:  Which I did, you know. My wife and my wife’s friends they got together, and we joined the PBA.

V:   Okay. What was the PBA?



	F:	The Police Benevolent Association. V:	The police what association?

F:   Benevolent.



V:   Benevolent?



F:  Benevolent Association. We’d go to all the meetings, we’d go to all the functions they had, before then we couldn’t. But the guys, the guys that I trained, I trained most of the White officers, they weren’t used to the Black people’s culture.

V:   Uh-huh.



	F:	You know when we had to go eat, he said we going to McDonald’s? I said there’s a McDonald’s on Martin Luther King, that’s where we’re going to eat at! I Took em to black restaurants, you know, some of em were real shocked and had





never visited a black restaurant to just sit down and eat; to enjoy yourself. So they got used to that.

	V:	Uh-huh.



	F:	And if they gave me a man for six weeks, to train for six weeks. They’ll tell you, “if Coot can’t use you, the department can’t use you”.

	V:	Yeah.



	F:	I only had about two to reject me. I didn’t bother me. I know what had to do and those ones that rejected me, you know, they were real prejudice. When they see non-White guy, they want to stop him. And I’d say why are you putting your lights on this man? So he said []. Cut the lights off I said, as long as this man not breaking the law, you ain’t got no business harassing him.

	V:	Um-hm



	F:	You not gon’ do it with me. So I went to the station and I told my supervisor I won’t be able to nothing with him he is too prejudice. They took him out and put him []

	V:	Huh. Who was your supervisor? You remember his name?



	F:	Back then, it was uh . . . it was uh . . . Captain Morgan [Howers 6:33]



	V:	Okay, Captain Morgan Howers? F:	Howers, mm-hmm.

	V:	Okay.



	F:	Major King, C.B. Daniel, and [??? 6:45].



	V:	And this was all when the Chief was; it was Chief [Underhill 6:51].



	F:	Uh-huh, mm-hmm





	V:	Okay, and I wanted to ask specifically about the integration of Fort Myers Police Department. When did they start allowing – because I know you didn’t have equal powers with the white officers – when did they start allowing black police officers on the force?

		F:	They had on them on there, but they was workin’ part-time. They worked during the day and they come in and patrol at night	ever since I was a teenager,

they had what was called a part-time black officer.



	V:	Mmm



	F:	Mmm-hmm



	V:	Okay.



	F:	See they was all old men, you know, and they was at their other jobs too. After they’d did this for so long, so they said I’m getting too old for this.

	V:	Mmm. I wanted to ask ‘cuz I knew there – or well there were several black police officers; I was looking through the archives and I found this picture of a citizen’s patrol unit –

	F:	Yeah yeah, uh-huh -



	V:	I think was with the Sheriff’s department – F:	Sherriff’s department, uh-huh

	V:	So was that where a lot of American-Americans ended up being put in terms of the police departments in the area.

		F:	Yeah we had, lemme see now we had	we had three join after the citizen



	patrol: [Thunder 8:39] Flag Thompson, Lee Hayes, Buster Jones – V:	You know several of them?





[laughter]



F:

Oh yeah, I knew all of them. [] I knew everybody on here.

V:

Oh wow.

F:

Everybody that was on here, because I was a city police officer then; and then



mm-hm [black 8:56] men in the [19]60’s and [19]70’s.

V:

Mmm

F:

I knew every one of these guys. The big part of them [] deceased now.

V:

Oh really?

F:

Mmm-hmm, mmm-hmm.

V:

Ah, mmm.

F:

One of these guys be on the next street over from me and they Lewis Walker.

V:

Oh okay. His name’s Lewis Walker; he’s on the other street?

F:

Yeah [unintelligible 9:19] on Lafayette street there; let me see can I find his



picture. I know three’em, three of these guys here I went to school with.

V:

Oh did you? –

F:

Mmm-hm.

V:

Which ones?

F:

Carlton White . . . .

V:

Okay

F:

Otis Brown. . . .

V:

Okay.

F:

[Lemme see here 9:40] Raymond Bradshaw. . . .



V: Okay





	F:	Henry Andersen, they called him shorty. V:	Okay.

	F:	Tony Byrd, Sammy Watkin. One of my teachers [] Lee Roy Wesley. V:	That was one of your teachers?

	F:	Yeah it was one of my teachers, he was citizen patrol. I’m at the school with Clifford Perkins, [???10:14]. Mmmm, Lewis Walker here he is right here.

	V:	Okay



	F:	Mm-hmm. I went to school with a lot of these, lot of these here. Biggest part of all of these guys here is deceased.

	V:	Mmm.



		F:	[In fact 10:35]	You know tell the truth John Campbell still living, Otis Brown



	living and	The rest of them deceased.



	V:	Well were trying to get in contact with as many as possible. Alright so, actually on that point, because you said you knew a lot of them in school. I wanted to talk a lot about your early life growing up, um so I want to ask you just general questions about then. So what year were you born exactly?

	F:	September the 2nd, 1929. V:	Okay….wow.

[chuckles from both]



	V:	Okay and who were your parents? F:	William and Anna Ferrell.

	V:	Okay and were they also from the Fort Myers area? F:	No they was from Georgia –





	V:	Okay –



	F:	Americus, Georgia. We migrate down here. [chuckles]

	F:	In 1935.



	V:	Oh okay, sooo um…you were born in Georgia as well? F:	I was born in Georgia, yea uh-huh.

	V:	What city in Georgia were you born in? F:	Americus, Georgia –

	V:	Okay.



	F:	Americus.



	V:	Americus?



	F:	Mm-hm



	V:	Okay, and do you remember why you and your parents moved from Americus to Fort Myers?

	F:	[stumbles on words] uh…uh…yes we do, the opportunities in Georgia. . . th – the opportunities was greater. I had an uncle already here, he asked my Daddy [did he want 12:20] to move down here to make more money – I was five years old when I remember that. So we came down here; this home to me.

	V:	Oh wow, okay.



	F:	Uh-huh, this home to me.



	V:	And did you have grandparents as well in Americus?



	F:	I – I didn’t know all my grandparents, I just knew my Daddy’s mama. V:	Was she still in Americus or did she also –





	F:	Yeah [she lived in Americus 12:46]



	V:	Okay, um did you still keep in contact with her after you left.



	F:	No, no [unintelligible 12:55]. Once we got done here and got situated, we didn’t have the money to travel. Like some people travel now, ya know ya know. So when we all got grown, grown-up and able to get the money we would we go up there like in the summer like July; stuff like that. Something like a family reunion, we get together for two or three days and sit down and reminisce it [reminiscent 13:38].

	V:	[chuckles] what was your Grandmother’s name? F:	Patty Murray.

	V:	and forgot to ask do you remember you mother’s maiden name? F:	Anna Murray.

	V:	Annnd, okay from that I wanted to ask about what your parent’s did for a living, you came down here you said, your parent’s came down here because your uncle was offering job opportunities. What were those opportunities how did your parents [work 14:23].

	F:	Well, my Daddy – whatcha call it, red cap and Franken [lawn 14:31] hotel. My mama, my mother was always a housewife, she did home laundry, [14:42] people that my Daddy knew. They would bring their laundry out to her and she would do it. That’s all she did all her life. Their Daddy took care of us.

V:  So you say us, did you have siblings? F:  Oh yeah, oh yeah, my oldest brother. V:   How many siblings did you have?





F:   It was six boys and two girls.



	V:	Wow, that’s quite a family. Alright, and so when you were growing up in the area how did you typically get you produce and groceries, did you guys have a garden or was there a general store in the area?

F:   No, it was couple grocery stores that we would use their stock boys. And when I got in the 8th and 9th grade I was an usher in the only black theater in the [15:51] Fort Myers; the grand theater.

V:  The Grand theater? F:  Uh-huh.

V:   Alright.



F:   My brother was there – working there first, so the lady her name was [AA Kang].



She would – “Junior” – she would call me Junior, “I want you to do a little ushering for me on weekends”. I would do a little ushering, [corralling weekend 16:16]. She would give a couple three dollars, man that was a lot of money back there in them days. When my older brother and them got a little older they migrate north. Then nobody here, but me, my sister and my baby brother. So I was goin’ quit school, I told the lady where I work at, I said “Imma have to quit school” she said “why?”. I said “gotta have enough money to take care of my momma them” ya know, my momma them. She said “no”, Imma tell you what she actually told me, she said “no you not gon’ quit school, [] I take care that”. That’s the best white lady I ever seen in my whole life. Her whole family here now, they treated me the same. Sam Galloway married – uh, Sam Galloway Ford he married my boss lady daughter.





	V:	Mmm kay.



	F:	I don’t care what I need I went to her I got it. [Had] Clothes, I guess you read in the paper about this styling [my color home].

	V:	Oh yeah, I’m familiar with it.



	F:	You see that sign said [stylin’ been sewn] her son in law owns that. V:	Okay.

[phone ringing in the back ground]



	F:		Excuse me Julian…. [takes phone call]. Nothing that I didn’t I want, they didn’t do it for me.

	V:	Okay so if I can ask then, you were talking about school, what school did you go to –

	F:	Dunbar!



	V:	Okay! So Dunbar High?



	F:	Yeah, Dunbar High School. It was located on High street back then. . . . graduated 1950.

	V:	Okay, so it was after that then. You told about how you wanted to be a police officer, and then you started work there. I wanted ask about some of the events when you were a police officer. If you graduated in 1950, then you were a police officer during some turbulent times during the civil rights movements here in Fort Myers. And I wanted to ask if you had memories of that while you were workin’.

	F	. . . [unsure] As a police officer? V:	Yes!

	F:	Go through that again Julian.





	V:	Okay I wanted to ask, do you have any memories of any events that happened during the civil rights movement here in Fort Myers?

	F:	I know when we had a disturbance here, I think it was in 1971 – 72. It was a black girl that was killed, they say she was dating some white man. They didn’t never arrested him so that was something like a . . . they called a race [riot]. It wasn’t no race [riot], it was a guest disturbance. The guy that allegedly supposed to kill this girl, he was white, and he owned a gas station. So the neighborhood got upset what they did, they robbed him for two or three days but right out here on Dunbar. From Palm Avenue to Cranford, they didn’t go downtown across the railroad track. They destroyed everything in the black neighborhood you know white guy had the laundry; all the black peoples clothes burned up.

	V:	and this was in 1971 you said? F:	This was in 1971.

	V:	So this was after the passages of the Civil rights act.



F:  Well yea, right on the verge, afterwards. What triggered the Pow-Mia integration was after that race riot in 1971, that’s when called it a salt and pepper team. And white and black riot together.

V:  Okay, um wow that’s incredible. Do you know the name of the girl who was killed?

F:  I know her last name was Debose. I can’t think of her first name, the family was real [preppers] here. The white guy who run the station, he was nice. We never thought he would do something like that, but we knew he was dating her.

V:   Do you remember that white man’s name?





	F:	No, uh . . . if I can’t think of it ain’t nobody else ‘round here know about it. Naw, I ain’t gon’ tell a lie, I can’t think of it.

	V:	During while the movement was going on, I know it wasn’t extremely prevalent in Fort Myers, but I know were individuals like; I believe his name was Reverend Izona Edwards with the Friendship Church. Did you ever have to respond to any calls relating to activities that the black community was participating in during the civil rights movement?

	F:	No, no Julian, we attended some of the functions that they had. We couldn’t . . . downtown at them stores downtown, we couldn’t go eat there we had to go to the backdoor. They demonstrated by that and then they said that “you got the black guy here and he can’t go cross the tracks, and at sun down everybody was working downtown and had to be back on this side of this town.

	V:	So black individuals weren’t allowed to be across the rail road tracks?



	F:	Naw – after six o’clock. But mostly everything then – that was before I got on – no, no yea it was before I got on. But it was like that after I got on in the [19]60s. But you right downtown there, whoever had the [] had you back cross the tracks. Unless it was a special occasion.

	V:	Wow, so was that just kind of like a social thing, or was it like in trying like “if you’re not back in the community by six o’clock you’re not safe”?

	F:	Well no, you had some diehard whites. And boy I tell ya when they see ya they call ya all kind of names. See only thing down there [stumbles on words] that we could go, usually what black people did, was working in the cafés and motels. No functions, no dancing. If you go there and get something to eat you got to go in





the backdoor. I don’t know where they tell you about the snack house restaurant. All the white go in and we had to go around the building in the alley, this police to now, we police. They had a little space in the kitchen, a table with four chairs, that’s where we ate at. If we want something to eat, ya know and it was hell [dude]. But when something else really happened to me when I did join in [19]66, I was working for the state and I was supervisor. I got my first paycheck, “I can’t believe this”, she said “what is it?” Just that boy [Lou house] just that boy [Lou house]. My home payment was seventy-seven bucks a month, I got my first paycheck. I wondered did they make a mistake with this money. Sixty-five bucks and you got to take out the income tax. My house payment was more than what I was making, and I said “oh my god”. She said well you wanted to be cop didn’t, yea, well you got to go along with it, and I did. It was hard, and it was a spring brand new house built from the ground in 1962. I worked for the state for 4 years, before I got on the department. And it was tough Julian I had two boys my two sons, my wife she was working part-time and stuff like that, and all the burden was [unintelligible 27:21].

	V:	What were your two son’s names?



	F:	My oldest one’s name is Bill! Bill Ferrell III, he’s a retired state trooper. He started with me – worked with me two years here in [19]82-83. He went two years here with me, and then he went to the Highway Patrol. He retired down there in the east coast. My youngest one is Ken, Kenneth Ferrell and he worked with a huge company called [Hues] supply.

	V:	Do you remember how long Bill was with FMPD, because you said –





	F:	Two years –



	V:	…two years…



	F:	Couple years

		V:	And was that in – what year did he start? F:	82-83

	V:	Okay, I was wondering, because my dad actually mentioned a relative of yours – we were having lunch and he mentioned, Booker? Yep, because the story sounded familiar because my father said he worked with FMPD couple years and then worked on the highway patrol. I didn’t know if he got the names mixed up or something.

	F:	That’s my nephew working now, and my son work with me and [19]82, city police officer. He wanted to advance, but he didn’t see no advancement here. So he went he went to FHP, graduated and come back here and work 3 years here as a patrol, got another opportunity to go to Broward county and make more money.

	V:	um and just so I have it to can I also get your wife’s name? F:	Lila, L-I-L-A.

V:  Annd um now that I have that, when the Civil Rights was going on did they have anything like sit-ins at the restaurants that were segregated downtown, did they have picketers? [End here] 29:59

F:   No, we didn’t have that Julian. When they told us that [unintelligible 29:43]. V:  *grunting acknowledgement*

F:   They didn’t picket or nothing, [or] no riot downtown, ya know if you were gon’ to do it that you should went downtown and did it. The little disturbance they did had





was out here in they own neighborhood. Montgomery [??? 30:02], Walgreens, [cisco buck], go in buy your stuff but you had to -. They had lunch counter, when the blacks did the man [lunch counter] he took’em out….he took him out rather than serve.

	V:	[stumbles]



	F:	I remember that real good, real good.



	V:	I was going to ask too, because I know for a lot of people your position since you were a police officer. Were you even permitted to participate in any protests or picketing, or anything like that?

	F:	N-no, no, no, no. That wasn’t allowed for police officers to get on the picket line.



	V:	So were you still – I imagine still you were extremely involved in the black community though?

	F:	Yea, oh yea, I was PFW. I associate with them, I got several awards. I got several awards from [unintelligible 31:18].

	V:	Okay.



	F:	They all on the walls back there, I got my letter of appreciation from the [Barish] department, helping crack these narcotics stuff ya know. They had undercover people, work the undercover stuff. All they did was give me the name, and I knew where every one of them stayed at. I drove to pick up the van, to go pick’em up. Hey I’ve involved in a whole lot of stuff Julian. But everything has been a [???] not none of the under *shit*.

	V:	So if I go to ask to because I want to know more about you involvement. Are you apart of church?





	F:	Oh yeah.



	V:	Which church is that?



	F:	Saint John, [right up here], Saint John first missionary Baptist church.



V:  Okay, and did they have a lot of functions that kind of brought the community together?

F:  Yea, yea, oh yea they had the youth movement and stuff like that. In fact I’m a deacon at that church now, I been there since 1941 and I’m on the board [??? 32:52], and the finance room for the financial department of the church. So I’m really involved in church.

	V:	So during the time when, times were tumultuous like you said in 1971 when there was the disturbance did the church act as a sanctuary in the area?

	F:	No, all the pastors met at one church, they met at friendship with Dr. Isadore Edwards. He was the president of the local NAACP, he was very active with race relations.

	V:	You said they all met at Friendship, what kind of activities did they plan together, between like the 40’s and 60’s, and stuff like that?

	F:	I don’t know about the 40’s and 60’s – 50’s I came home from the army. I went north until 55, and then I came back. I guess they was involved, with ya know everything was still standing, no churches was destroyed. Only thing was destroyed was the laundry where I our clothes burned.

	V:	Okay, so you said you went north in [19]55?



	F:	NO, I take that back, that was [19]53, I went north in 53 after I got out of the army. I went to Muskegon, Michigan.





	V:	And you said you were in the army, were you involved in the Korean War? F:	I was right in the middle of it, it was the first of July I landed in Korea.

	V:	Uh okay, what year was that?



	F:	July 1st, 1951. I went to Korea and was there for 6th months. V:	Do you remember what battalion you were with?

	F:	Bilberry 82nd field artillery, first cavalry division. V:	Do you remember where in Korea you landed?

	F:	I landed in Yeoungdeungpo, then I [??? 35:44] with a place called [?Puusun?]. Then after six months we went to Japan to put occupation duty there. The forty- fifth division they relieved us in Korea, I was there for a year. It was tough over there too with race.

	V:	I imagine you were in a segregated unit.



	F:	No, no. . . – *takes a deep breath* all together it was just – the place that relieved us had never seen no black people.

	V:	Okay.



	F:	Because they had told us one day that the white folks told us that the black folks had tails, and I tell you this here. You still recording me?

	V:	Yea I can – you want me to – F:	Yea cut it off right now. [Switches the recorder off] [Switches the recorder on]

	V:	Alright and we’re recording again. So I want to ask then so what was the – you were in the 82nd field artillery.





	F:	Yea that’s the artillery division.



	V:	Okay, what was your goal when you were there?



	F:	My goal – the division I was in was heavy artillery, 155 howser. So I drove the tractor that pulled the howser, and that was my duty when we go on field trips. I was lead tractor driver, I did that until I come back home in [19]53; January [19]53.

	V:	Did the war change your perspective on life, or anything at all? How did it effect you?

	F:	Ah well, I was gone so long I had lost respect, sit down at the table and eat. Pass me the damn sugar, pass me the damn bag of peppers and I did that couple times at home. My mother said “what’s wrong with ya son?”, I said “ what I done Mom?”. “You cursing”. I was used to doing that in the mess hall in the army, she said you at home now. *chuckles* Yes ma’am! Yes ma’am! I tell you Julian it was tough. I wouldn’t want to go back, and I wouldn’t [trade] nothing for the experience.

	V:	Did you have any friends in Korea with you and any friends you had made?



	F:	Oh my god man, I got a book that was published by the first [???] with all my buddies in there. Nobody was from Fort Myers area all my friends was from different areas of the state.

	V:	So they were all from-



	F:	-different areas, different cities, different towns. I aint seen nobody in Fort Myers until I got back in Fort Myers.





	V:	So then what was the experience like coming back from the war, and then coming back from Fort Myers?

	F:	Well, the experience was I had to come back into the same thing that I left from, segregation. I went on here to Fort Myers all the years, over the years and still gotta go through the backdoor. My brother came down visit us here, you ain’t satisfied. Aw man aint nothing I can do about it that’s the rule of the law here in the city, he said you want to come north? Well I do at some point, but I still got to look after my Mama. My mother ya know so. Come on, come go north with me and we’ll take care of mother. So I went north he got me a good job up there, factory job. The pay was good but the living expenses was really, really, really, really high. So I got married. First marriage lasted about a good year, I come back home and my brother over here with me that didn’t [???]. And ya know couple months ago, no [undecided speech] few weeks we celebrated my 62nd wedding anniversary [later that day]. 62 years we been married.

	V:	Oh wow, that’s incredible –



	F:	Yeah, yeaaa it sure is incredible [laughter]

	F:	It really is incredible Julian. . . I think I want to back to the war sometimes. [laughter]

	V:	So I want to ask you about your time in Michigan, you said you worked at a factory. You remember –

	F:	Yeesss, [cia-pact] make pistol [rangs] for cars. V:	Uh okay, and what company was it?





	F:	[Seapowell].



	V:	Okay. And um were you part of union?



	F:	Yeah yea union, yep yep union. You said union? V:	Mmm.

	F:	Yeah.



	V:	What union were you apart of?



	F:	Uh, [begins muttering] USA, [unintelligible], USA, U –. United Workers Association, UWA. I don’t, I know it was a big factory.

	V:	Okay, and were there any significant events that happened in your life in that time.

	F:	No.



	V:	No?



	[chuckles F:	No.

	V:	Not until you came back to Fort Myers? F:	Not till I came back to Fort Myers.

	V:	Okay. And um I was actually interested too about a lot of happenings in Fort Myers, because one of the only reported violent events I could find in the internet and the paper. The first and only reported lynching that happened in Fort Myers but that was in the 1920s where they killed two innocent boys. Um where there any violent crimes against the black community that you saw while you lived in Fort Myers?

	F:	Mmm. . . no –





	V:	Besides the 1971 –



	F:		– no no no. Because they tried to get something started, [Donnie Lexingtown] they come out they wanted – I think he was running for Sheriff.

	V:	Okay.



	F:	Floyd Ellis, was running against [Snag] Thompson, and one of Floyd Ellis guys, he was going to burn a cross. You know what that [???] and right there?

	V:	Yeah.



	F:	They used to be the city workers, you know that they burn garbage and stuff there?

	V:	Yeah.



	F:	He was going to come out there, right on the corner there. He was going to burn a cross. What happened there is somebody saw him, because all the [bars] was on Anderson then, we use to call it the Anderson Alley and Martin Luther King now. All the bars are located on Martin Luther King –

	V:	Okay -



	F:		- and somebody saw him and he didn’t get a chance to light it. That’s the only thing that went on when I was coming up.

	V:	Okay, do you know what year that was, you said it was Floyd Ellis versus Snag Thompson?

	F:	*mutters* [Flag Thompson was Sherriff] It was in the [19]40s.



	V:	If you can’t remember the year the decades fine. You said Floyd Ellis was going to burn a cross, was he associated with the clan at all?





	F:	No, it was some of his associates. I don’t know if he instigated it or not, they was talking about the Klan, but we didn’t have no Klan marches here.

	V:	Okay, so he was just burning a cross to try and intimidate the community.



	F:	yea yea yea, he was trying to intimidate the black people to vote for Floyd Ellis instead of Snag Thompson. See Snag Thompson was one of the best Sherriff’s we ever had here. He treated everybody right, never wore a gun.

	V:	He never wore a gun? F:	No.

	V:	Oh wow –



	F:	Never wore a gun. They had a lot of respect for him, really a lot of respect for a state trooper. He was a state trooper before he got to be Sherriff. Before he did he got defeated by Frank Wernicke, and that was in the late [19]60s, early [19]70s. He was defeated by Frank Wernicke. Well we see him. Go to know him, I think of ya know I recognize your face.

	V:	You were talking about how Floyd Ellis was trying to intimidate the black community during the elections for Sherriff. Where there any other times where, people were trying to intimidate the black community during an election?

	F:	uh uh [no] uh uh no]. V:	Nope? That was it? F:	Mmm, hmm [yes].

	V:	So I wanted to ask about your time as police officer than now, because were moving into that time period. So when you were an officer you didn’t have equal





powers as a white officers did. Were you given the same equipment? Were you allowed to have a gun?

	F:	Oh yeah, mmm hmm.



	V:	So [unintelligible], did you drive a police car? F:	Uh we had, uh –

[chuckles]



	F:	- I’mma tell ya this Julian, they had one – I don’t know what year, it was a Chevrolet. It was. Didn’t nobody drive it by the black officers. Ya know how they have briefing now? We didn’t go to briefing, we just get the keys get in the car.

	V:	Then do your patrols?



	F:	- do our patrols and if somebody needed to be picked up, that’s it. So after that expired, then every year. They all treated me nice, I don’t have nothin’ bad to say about them. When they started getting everybody cars, every year the first new car they give it to me. 301 that’s the number of the car, and if you drive a 301 when the shift change and then we all went to briefing all at the same time then.

	V:	Yeah.



	F:	If something happen to you with the 301 then you have to bring it back. It was some good days and it was some bad days. They got mad at me a couple times, because one of the white guys I that I worked with. At the [???], went to his house and drank some beer, and this supervisor – our supervisor lived wasn’t too far from him this boy named Phil, HUGE.

	V:	Okay.





	F:	And we sit there and drink a beer at night you know a couple 3 of them. He would drive by and see me there, he would call him off the next day and they didn’t like that. His name is Captain Miller, he said “Captain Miller when I’m off, at home, I invite who I want to”. I took care of that [???] and he have no more to say about that, Captain Miller was ya know. He was patrol and all, but he didn’t want to see us [hanging] together after shift.

	V:	Wow, even though relations were – things were pretty good between you and the other officers.

	F:	- mmm hmm , well yeah yeah. The thing about it is the bigger part, [bread] down there with them, they was born and raised right here. [unintelligible]

	V:	Okay.



	F:	[unintelligible] ya know and they didn’t want us to search life with the white officer. They dropped that stuff boy, and so when I off boy I can search life with who I want. They come to my house here, they come to wife and me and eat. I say EAT. [unintelligible] she said who you got today? I said I got Griff. Griff still work for the Sherriff department now. Boy she know he love to eat. All them guys treated me nice, if I needed something now I would call the retirement president Glenn Johnson, he be ready if I need anything.

	V:	That’s good to hear.



	F:	It is it really is, I live in good standing and if I need something at that station I would call, and I don’t want to talk to no supervisor, I mean shift sergeant. I want to [unintelligible] captain. What your name is, I say Coot Ferrell. They say oh I remember you and “alright then let me speak to [unintelligible]”





	V:	yeah.



	F:	I have no problem with ‘em.



	V:	So I wanted to ask too. . .when you joined on with the department, who were the other black police officers with?

	F:	Charles Barnes –



	V:	Okay, I know there was a Johnny Po too –



	F:	He after me way after me, Charles Barnes, Louis Perkin called him ‘Sunny’ Perkin, Rayfield Newton those were the three officers when I joined.

	V:	Who was the second one you said?



	F:	Sunny Louis Perkin, he go by the name of Sunny Perkin.



	V:	Yep, okay. And did you have any interactions with them, I imagine you were friends with them. Along with they were friends with everyone else in the [???] as well. So when you were talking about your shifts, you said there were good days and bad days what was a typical good day for you on the department.

	F:	We didn’t have to go to them families discouraged, domestic – V:	yep! –

	F:	Those were the worst ones you didn’t want to go to, domestic. V:	Ok those were the bad days.

[Chuckles]



F:  yeah those were the bad days. When we see something happen, we didn’t get there in time to stop it. Then it would go on and it would be on my mind, then I saw one kid get drowned. [unintelligible].

V:   yeah okay.





	F:	I think he played hooky from school, and there’s a ditch and it was called Pamella Street then, now it’s Shoemaker.

	V:	Oh okay, Veronica Shoemaker. Yep.



	F:	But I saw him trying to scoff and get out. I took off my gun, and I went in there and got him out and we couldn’t save him. This kid here is about the same age as oldest boy. That really hurt me, that stick with me. I know how that woman feel. I got an award for it, [unintelligible] it was me another white guy. We got him out there we did resuscitation on him, but he was too far gone. Hmm, mmm when I talk about that boy I go back then.

	V:	Okay, that pretty much wraps up what I wanted to ask about the police department, I actually had a question about your family life and two boys. Were there any businesses that you all frequented or places that you went out to while you went off from work.

	F:	No, uh Julian we didn’t socialize too much in the community. All of the time we would go out, they’ll make smart remarks. “[unintelligible]” that stuff like that. See I didn’t want to hear that see cause, I turn the place out with him see. Ya know, “hey man the same thing I wear on duty I got it right here on my hip”, I don’t appreciate the bull. I’ll have the car come pick yo ass up. So if we did we would go out of town somewhere. That’s like if we were off duty we would only go to the bar, we would only go to the black bars to drink. So they had special place for us, because they know go try to throw hints at ya when ya walk in and yall here to hear that. They had a little room on the side, and a window where we can see what’s going on and stuff like that ya know. Because first chance, [???] n***a





[???]. I don’t want to hear that, especially with my family [???]. Like I said, you can curse me, call me and don’t put your hand on me and don’t touch me. Leave my wife alone – my wife and children. If you want some problems, you be calling them all kinds of names and stuff like that, I know where they go be at in the city jail. I had one of my white buddies went to the bus station, and this guy was acting up down there so the bus driver they had to take off with him, so call us.

His name is Mike Carr, he work for the state of attorney’s office as an investigator. Me and him was riding together, I pull up. I asked the bus driver what’s the problem? He [???] drunk, we was about to get him and this white said I want no one nigger talk to me. I don’t want no nigger put his hands on me. So I said well, I know best thing next thing from here so I jacked his ass up, handcuffed ‘em and threw him in the police car. And my buddy said Coot how you put up with that kind of stuff. I told him long time ago, I said Mike I can put up with everything you do, just don’t put your hands on me and don’t cuss me. It don’t bother me, because I got the upper hand. I know who going to jail, I aint going to jail he going to jail. Sometimes we had to rough’em up, roughed’em up. White guy told me on a Friday we got the all the [red rice?], “nigga can’t arrest me” I said I’mma show you what a nigga is tonight. I’mma show you what he is tonight, I snatched his ass out of that car. By that time one of my [???] lieutenant, he drove up. He said Coot you got’em, I said I got’em, he said you need some help I said no sir. Then he told he said well take his ass to jail – he going to jail.

[chuckles]





	F:	Julian I then went longer than I did. I had a hip problem, I had a complete hip – see it was getting where my limp was noticeable and I didn’t want to go shooting somebody, because they wanted to take advantage of me because I was limping. No I better take this opportunity – you know I shot one person, one person it was nice then. I better take advantage of what this doctor told me I need a complete, complete. I got all I tell [???] I had [???] in my thing here because that thang [go off] with that [milli machine]. Sometimes it would go off, I had have the [???] to [show] the hip bone that I got in, biotic. So I better go.

	V:	How many years were you with the department? F:	twenty-five and a half.

	V:	twenty-five and a half, wow.



	F:	First black to go in at May 25, first black retire, first black to make officer of the year, made officer of the year in 1986.

	V:	Okay, you said you were the first in, were the first black police officer? F:	Yeah the first black in the history of Fort Myer police department. –

	V:	Oh wow, ok. I don’t know why the book lists you as first retired. It doesn’t mention you as the first. I meant to ask about that.

	F:	First black to retire, put in 25 years.



	V:	I imagine did they have like the drop program and stuff like that. F:	who that?

	V:	the drop?



	F:	Drop, no no no. See now the drop was just coming when I was going out see. If had been 3-4 years before, I probably would’ve took it, I guess I would’ve took I





don’t know Julian. Because the hip was giving me bone on bone, bone on bone man. I tell ya. . .yea cause it was just coming in a man, one of my sergeant Streets [???] he coot why don’t you? I said naw Junior, I said you can go 8 or 9 more years. If I keep going like this I’m gon’ be an old man, yall be pullin’ me around in a wheelchair. No I didn’t get it, I would’ve got it if had came earlier.

	V:	You said Streets, is that um Counselmen streets? F:	I was his training officer.

	V:	He was a K-9 unit right?



	F:	Yeah he started out as a K-9 unit.



V:  We actually plan on talking to him too, we’re going to do it the next time we come down here. Okay, so the last thing I wanted to ask about is bunch beach, but you said you didn’t frequent a lot of the areas around here. When you and your family did go out of town to visit places, where did you typically go?

	F:	Well . . . [stutters] the black establishments, ya know ‘cause we didn’t know the situation, the race relations at certain places. We would always go to a black establishments, if we go to a place that we see a lot of blacks in we go there, but you got nothing about white folks. I’m still licensed to gun ya know, carried my gun and stuff like that. Every eight years you gotta renew, Im about to go renew mines now.

	V:	So I take it then, when you did go out with your family you did carry your gun on you?

	F:	Oh yea oh yea oh yea. V: -





	F:	I always put my handcuffs, I might not have no arrest power but I can hold’em until another officer get there.

	V:	Okay, and I want to know too because a lot of people down at stations still know you. Do you still keep in touch with a lot of the police officers?

	F:	Yes, yes I do.



	V:	Are they any in particular that you keep in contact a lot with?



	F:	Melvin, he’s on suspension now. My nephew he on suspension, and Jason Jackson, and I don’t know what it is. I made contact with the chief –

	V:	With Chief Jakes?



	F:	Yeah, I met him when he first came in and he invited me into his office. I went down there talked about some of the things I went through. I showed’em, show [???]. Aww man they something else, you couldn’t arrest white people? [Naw no] [1:02???1:04] in your office. [I think it went all down hill] no where in city hall, do you see a picture of me as being the first black. I figured they’d have a poster in the police station, are either city hall. I’ve said nothing, I talked to streets about it we got 3 black councilmen they want to wait till you be dead then they want to come up to say all these nice things about you, hell I aint hear’em. Well if you gon’ do it say it where I can you. I didn’t get any award from the black community this year, last one I got was from Fort Myers Middle School, over here off of Royal Palm. They present it to me; police department was there, I said here take that down to the station you don’t have nothing else of me. They got it in there, I went down there one day I looked for it and looked for it. I [???] that I give you if





you not gone put it on display. Well it’s down their Coot, well you come show me where its at. Might as well, where go me where back there in the corner.

[bell rings] [cuts recorder]

	V:	Alright and it’s back I can end it all now, I might come back for questions the next time I come down.

	F:	It was a pleasure Julian, it was real good pleasure. V:	Oh it’s our pleasure, and honestly it’s an honor.























[End of interview]



	Audio edited by:	Charity Kelly, January 6, 2020