AAHP 135; Riley and Hargro; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 135 Katesha Riley and Cydney Hargro

Interviewed by Cydney Hargro and Katesha Riley on September 3, 2010 67 minutes | 31 pages



Abstract: Katesha Riley and Cydney Hargro interview each other at the 2010 Black Alumni Weekend, discussing their experiences going to the University of Florida and the meaning of returning as alumni to events such as the one they are attending.



Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]



































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 135

Interviewee: Katesha Riley and Cydney Hargro Interviewer: Cydney Hargro and Katesha Riley Date: September 4, 2010



H:   I’m Cydney Hargro.



	R:	I’m Katesha Riley. Well you said what was my birthdate? June 2, 1987. H:	Where were you born and where did you grow up?

	R:	Funny enough I was born in Gainesville at Shands. My mom was in school here at the time. She was finishing up, it was her last year. She actually had us earlier; I’m a twin. She had me and my brother early about a month and a half/ two months-ish. We were born in June at Shands. We were here for a month because we had a lot of complications before we went home to Orlando. I kind of feel like I’ve always been a Gator.

	H:	I know you were a child at that point, but how did your mom feel about UF? The climate here, being a mother and a student finishing up?

	R:	My mom, talking to her, she seemed to have a really good experience at UF especially within the Black community, but also within just UF in general. She was here in the [19]80s, so they had a lot of Civil Rights Movement protests. She is so fond of talking about how they started protests all the time walking from Tigert Hall to wherever. It’s really interesting to talk to her, to compare the climates between when she went to school here and now that I’ve gone to school here. Sometimes I get the feeling that it wasn’t always good. She never really goes into details, but just little things that she will mention. I’m drawing a blank now, of course. But it was a great place to get started. I think it was right when UF was really starting the diversity movement; really trying to involve people of





other races specially African-Americans, not only academically, but socially and organizationally as well. She loves UF; it’s still—

	H:	Part of her?



	R:	Yeah.



	H:	You said that you’re a twin, so how many siblings do you have in total? R:	I have one more sister.

	H:	So there’s three of you guys. What did your parents or just your mom do for a living?

	R:	I keep saying she is a teacher, but actually she just had a job change. She still works in education, but she’s more so on the curriculum level now. She was a teacher for as long as I’ve known her, both at the community college back home and in high school.

	H:	Where did you go to school generally? Tell me about your early education, middle, high school.

	R:	Elementary I went to a neighborhood school. It was lower-class, mostly minorities.

	H:	Which school?



	R:	Orlo Vista Elementary.



	H:	Oh, my nephews go there.



	R:	I loved Orlo Vista because the teachers were really engaged and they really had a mind and heart for the students, for us. That was teachers of all races. I don’t know, I just—so many memories, so many lessons I learned in elementary. It was a beautiful thing, I love Orlo Vista. We were owls, and then they changed to





jaguars. I will forever be an Orlo Vista owl. I love it. Then I moved to Gotha Middle School which is in a more high-end, yeah definitely affluent part of town. I wasn’t zoned for Gotha, but because my mom worked at a school that was zoned for Gotha it worked out that we could go. Still good experiences, I loved Gotha. It was more White, more majority. I was starting to get used to the idea of being the minority, being the only Black person. I took a lot of honors classes.

While it still wasn’t as bad as high school, it was going more towards that where minorities were decreasing, majority was increasing.

	H:	High school where did you go?



	R:	High school I went to West Orange High School in Winter Garden, Florida, home of the warriors. That was completely majority for the most part. There were a few of us, I say a few because there were four thousand people and maybe in the hundreds we had minorities, not even just Black people. That’s where I really experienced the first taste of discrimination sometimes at the hands of teachers, but more so at the hands of students. Not always just White students, I got a lot of flak from African-American students as well. I was very good academically and I loved school. I was really ambitious in my coursework and that put me in AP classes. Most of the time there was only one or two of us, more of the time one. I’d be the only one, and there might be another Black girl or Black guy in another class. We’d see each other passing in the hall and kind of have a meet eyes and say hey. I think I was shielded for a while just because of my family. They did a really good job of trying to prevent those interactions for us. But you can’t be with kids 24/7. So I remember when I got accepted to UF.





	H:	When did you get accepted? How was it? What was the moment?



	R:	Okay, let me tell you. UF was my school. I didn’t see any other school in my future. I didn’t even entertain the idea of going to another school. UF—it was the only school I applied to undergrad. I was like, if I don’t get in, I would go to Valencia the community college back home for two years and then transfer. It was like, UF. I bled orange and blue. There was no other question about it. I applied early, because I did the—it was through the admissions office with Mike Powell—it was with that recruitment program. I went to Destination Gainesville, it was a dinner. Loved—I was like, oh definitely the school I need to go to, I’m going to be there. And there was Black people there—bonus! I applied by September 15th, and this was my senior year. So I was like stressed because I was trying to get the application in, but also still keep up with my AP classes, all my full load. December 8th I remember I had been checking, but they were like, oh we’ll send an email. I didn’t tell anyone I was going to look or going to check. I went upstairs to my computer room, our office. I pulled up the email and—I don’t know. I was nervous up until right when I clicked on the link. It was just like a peace. I was just like, I got in, there’s no other rationale, I got in. Sure enough that little email it said, Oh congratulations, welcome to the Gator Nation. I just remember smiling. And I walked calmly downstairs, and I said, Mom you’re looking at the newest member of the Gator Nation, and she screamed. My mom’s a screamer. And I was just like, yep, I’m excited. I’m excited. So then I went back upstairs and printed eight copies of the letter. I put one; I remember it’s still there to this day, on my Calc II notebook, and I carried it around for the rest of the year.





I was so excited. And I was like, yep, what is that? Admissions letter to UF. Of course I’m telling people. It’s not even halfway through the school year, and I already know what I’m doing for the next four years of my life. I remember one guy in my AP English class, he’s like, Oh I didn’t get into UF. I was like, Oh, I mean what happened? What’s your GPA, blah, blah, blah. So I’m trying to just see where the discrepancies were. He really looked at me and was like, Oh it’s because of affirmative action. I was like, Are you serious? Because one, UF didn’t have affirmative action policy anymore. So I was just like wow that was a really ignorant comment. I think that’s the point that I realized the most, Wow, you’re Black. You’re Black in a White world. It was never really apparent to me until that moment. All I see are students who are striving for the same goal, but he saw a Black student who was striving for the same goal.

	H:	Clearly his space was taken by affirmative action students.



	R:	Right. I just kept thinking I do just as much as you, even more. Why shouldn’t I have gotten into the University of Florida?

	H:	Well, I’m glad you made it because I wouldn’t have met you otherwise. R:	Oh my gosh I know, even though we live in the same town.

	H:	I know right? Down the street. What years did you attend UF?



	R:	From June 2005 until present because I’m still here in graduate school.



	H:	You already spoke about your first impressions a little bit, this is where you were coming, no questions. You weren’t interested in any other colleges. What schools did you friends go to? How did that work out since you were so headstrong for UF?





	R:	As soon as I got into UF, then a lot of my friends were like, Okay, now we’re going to apply to UF, too. While they did, some got in, some didn’t. But at the end of the day I was really the only one in my core group of friends who actually came to UF. Everyone else went to like USF, or UCF, FSU, FAMU in Tallahassee. For me, I was kind of glad that happened. Not that I felt stuck, but something about going to college, it’s just like Oh, it’s a new beginning. I want to branch out, I want to try it different this time around. High school was okay, but I was just like, There has to be more to the world, to life than my high school experience. Most of my friends didn’t come, we stayed in contact, but I was pretty much starting over when I came to UF.

H:  So when you got here, seems like you weren’t a stranger to Gainesville, but what were your first impressions of Gainesville as a student of the university? How did that compare to your expectations?

	R:	I just remember being really excited. To this day I think Gainesville, UF has superseded my expectations. I don’t know what I thought was going to happen or what was gonna go down when I came to UF. I just remember being excited from the first day. I was like, I’m a Gator. I loved the numbers. I loved that there were so many people, the campus. I was just in love. That’s the only way I can explain it. In love with UF.

	H:	How did you pay for school, your living expenses? Where did you live? Things like that.

	R:	I had Bright Futures because, like I said, I did really well in high school. But also I knew that my family couldn’t afford it. My parents are divorced and so it was





really my mom who would be the only person who would be able to support me. I knew going in that I really wanted to go to UF, and I really didn’t want that to be a burden. Let’s be real UF is expensive even for a state school. I had Bright Futures, I had a couple of scholarships I had gotten locally. I started Summer B of 2005, and from then on it’s really been scholarships. Then it moved to loans because like a good college student, I didn’t quite study as well as I needed to at times. So I lost my Bright Futures one year, and then I regained it. In that year I started working, my freshman year. I was always working while in school, a number of jobs actually. That’s really it. Even though the main bulk of the financial aid came from scholarships, loans, my family was still there for the times where the money ran out and I was tired of eating peanut butter & jelly sandwiches or ramen. I ate ramen all freshmen year and I will not touch it anymore, because it was just really ridiculous. I lived on campus, I still live on campus, so all that was included in the financial aid.

	H:	What was a typical Friday night for you in undergrad?



	R:	Whew! Friday night. The first three years, maybe well into the fourth year, it was a party. I was either at a house party or going to one of the clubs in Midtown, Downtown. I hit it strong and I don’t even know how I did it. I’m not that old, but every weekend going out. I was just out, meeting people, hanging out.

	H:	What was your favorite in Midtown or any of those places?



	R:	Funny enough I didn’t even really like the clubs. I don’t know even why I tortured myself for so long. It was really just the people, I went for the socializing. The older I got it moved more so to house parties and then just maybe going out to





restaurants, stuff like that. But really it was just about mingling with people. I love talking, so just meeting new people and discussing it that way.

	H:	Aside from your Friday nights, where did you go what were things you did for fun?

	R:	I tended to think of myself as a different breed of Black people, which, take it how you want it. I didn’t necessary do the typical Black activities, or so I’ve been told. I’m really a museum, arts person, trying something new, going somewhere new. So if it wasn’t like Gator Nights event, cause I really was on top of Gator Nights.

	H:	Don’t sleep, I went yesterday.



	R:	Exactly, I mean Gator Nights has some awesome events. But if not that, I’m always looking for new things going on in Gainesville or just events that are out of the box. I go to plays, I used to do that. Not as much as I would love to. I would go to plays, you know, on campus and off-campus at the Hippodrome. Some of the best plays I’ve seen have been at the Hippodrome. I went to a Jazz event one time. And that’s more so towards the end of my undergrad, after I stopped all the partying. Some of my favorite places have been like local places. Sometimes I just walk around campus and I’ll sit at Century Tower or Plaza of the Americas and just sit and just take in the scenery, because it’s such a beautiful campus.

Especially at night when they have the tower’s lit up, University Auditorium’s lit up. That’s when I really feel like, Wow, this is UF, this is my school.

	H:	You said you didn’t really too much engage in the stereotypical Black activities?



But what would you say were some of the big events for Black students?





	R:	FISS, Florida Invitational Step Show. The UF National Pan-Hellenic Council, they have a step show every fall semester, Black Greek Extravaganza. Black Student Assembly, that’s always a big one. Black History month, all the events that go on with that. Which, Black History Month, I always participated when I could, but not always the events that I feel like they pushed the most. I loved going to the forums, and to the book signings. I liked seeing those types of events. Because honestly I feel like we as a people focus too much, or the group of students at UF focus too much on partying or social activities in being social with each other.

And while it’s a great thing, but—like Eugene Pettis said earlier, really it would be so much more beneficial if we do the same thing, but within the other organizations and other communities. Some of the coolest things, some of the most amazing things I’ve experienced have been because I’ve stepped out of the box and decided to go to some event where I knew I would be the only Black person. But I had a chance to make a difference in those people’s lives, in changing their stereotypes of their views of African-Americans. That’s why I go to events like that. I’m like, Look, shady stuff won’t go down if one of us is there. At least one of us are there. So I’m like, Look, that’s the first step. You have to in the room in order to make a change.

	H:	Exactly, because talking about it from somewhere else isn’t going to accomplish much. I definitely understand that. Regarding being on campus, who was your mentor? Who did you feel really comfortable talking to on campus if anyone?

	R:	I think that’s one of the things that I wish I would have looked into more. Just looking at how people responded to different names that were mentioned in the





brunch this morning. I’m just like, man, I’ve seen those people, but I’ve never really even had one conversation with them. I’m not even sure what they do. I think that’s what I would have loved to happen. I did have some mentors, but it wasn’t nearly on the level I thought we would be. I went through UF kind of on my own, making my own path, which may have led to some of the struggles I had. I think that’s what I would do differently next time around if I had the chance.

	H:	Do you think the lack of that person or people for mentorship was on your end, or was it just that there wasn’t opportunity, or you didn’t seek more of that interaction? Or a combination?

	R:	I think a combination of both. It takes two to tango. I notice that a lot of times you have the high end of the group, and then you have the low end. But then the middle gets left out. It’s like oh you have just enough so that you don’t really really need a lot of help, but you don’t have as much to be in this high group. I feel like I fell in the middle. I think the middle gets lost a lot of time, lost in the shuttle. I feel like that’s kind of what happened. I didn’t do horrible in undergrad. It’s like you’re not about to flunk out, so you should be okay. I think that’s where my family, my mom came in. She’s an alumna of the university, that was a good sounding board for me.

	H:	I don’t really need to ask you this line, sister, but were you in any organizations, Greek or leadership organizations?

	R:	I had some leadership experience while in undergrad. I was a major part of on- campus housing. I was a Resident Assistant for most of that time, helping with different events they do, Resident’s Hall Week, all their other on-campus stuff. I





was in a Christian service organization, Nu Alpha Lambda, I did that for two years. I ended up joining Alpha Kappa Alpha, my last year at the University of Florida. I had a lot of diverse experiences when it came to leadership organizations.

	H:	What was your major? Did you ever change majors? Are you happy about the major that you chose or ended up with? All those types of things, just about your major decisions.

	R:	Have you heard this story? It’s a lengthy one.



	H:	No, I’ve heard bits and pieces of it. Okay, I’m ready.



	R:	The question is: is the audience ready? Did I change majors? I think I’m the person who caused them to implement the limit on major changes. I came into UF Pre-Pharma, and I came in Pre-Pharm because I knew that in six years I could have a Pharmacy degree, I could be a PhD or a PharmD in Pharmacy. Then I could go on to med school, and I could be working, paying for med school while I’m in med school, and then graduate. And then be a pediatrician and save the world. That’s how I came into UF. About three weeks in, I said I don’t know if Pre-Pharmacy is where it is, maybe I should just commit all the way to Pre-med. So I changed to Pre-med. Mind you, my major, because Pre-Pharm, Pre-med, that’s not a major, so it was Chemistry. So I started off, it was Chemistry. And then I changed to—and that’s moving from like Pre-Pharm and Pre-Med, then I got this brilliant idea to do engineering, cause they cover the same classes. But then I’d be an engineer and I could really make money right out of undergrad. So I switched to Chemical Engineering, and I was that for about a semester. Took





some engineering classes, and of course I was taking the math classes and science classes anyway, so that didn’t really matter. Then I switched to math, just because I liked math. I was like I don’t really feel engineering, let me just switch to math, because I already had to take all the math anyways. Then I was like, No! I’m Pre-med I don’t want to do math, I’ll just stick with Chemistry. Switched back to Chemistry. So I was Chem well into my third year. Then I’d finished all my core classes, suffered through Organic Chemistry. I thought it was going to be the death of me. Ugh, horrible. I loved the class, loved the material. Didn’t like the discipline it took to learn it, and I didn’t put in the effort. It was probably towards the end of my first semester of my junior year. I had a hold on my record, because I was registering for classes for spring semester. They said, Oh you have a hold, go see your academic advisor. So Chemistry is in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, so I went to the academic advising building. I thought it was going to be a routine, this is what you need to take the next semester, and that’s it. So I go in, I waited in a long line. Because academic advising, ridiculous. No matter when you go, it’s ridiculous. I’m in the office with the lady and she’s like, Oh it shows that you’re a Math major. I was like, Oh no I’m Chemistry major. She was like, Oh it will be simple, I’ll just change it. Her face changes, and it’s like a face of concern. And I’m like, what? She’s like, oh it looks like they switched you to Math because you were kicked out of the Chemistry department. I was like, What do you mean? She’s like, It says that your critical tracking was too low, and that you couldn’t stay in the major. I was like, Oh what should I should do? She’s like well you would have to go talk to someone in the





department and then come back or whatever. But at that point I wasn’t even comprehending what was going on. I left academic advising, and I walked to the fountain, which wasn’t on at the time. I sat down and started bawling. I lost it. I think I had never lost it as much in my life at that point. I remember I called my mom and she was so worried because she couldn’t understand what I was saying. Looking back on it, I’m sure that wasn’t a comforting thing for your daughter to call you in the middle of the day crying and you can’t understand her. But I was so, I don’t, I was like broken. That was my dream; not necessarily chemistry. From the way I was seeing it, it’s like she told me I couldn’t do my dream. I couldn’t do what I dreamed of for how many years? Since I was a little girl. I’m crying, bawling my eyes out, I’m talking to my mom finally. She’s like you got to talk, you gotta breathe, I can’t understand you. So after talking with her and crying a lot, I was like okay, then I need to find another major that I can get into. I’m really going to be Pre-med now. You told me I can’t; I’m really going to do it now. In the next probably two or three days I went to every Science department on campus. And I was like look, I need to get into the Science department because I have all these science classes, math classes. This is what I need to do. But they all gave me the same response. It was like, one, you’re too old, or you’re too far along in your schooling. And itt’s the same problem as with the Chemistry department, I don’t meet critical tracking GPA. So I had to find another major. So after going to the Math department, Micro Bio, the Chemistry department and oh so many other—I don’t even remember anymore. I finally went to Career Counseling. I really walked into the office, I was like, Look, I want





to be a doctor, they kicked me out of my major. What is a major that I can get into so that I can finish my degree? The way I saw it, I would finish, and for me it was like I would get into a random major, finish and then go on to med school. Or even, I was like I’ll even do a B.S again. I just need to finish. I was like I can’t not finish at the University of Florida, that’s not an option. I had put way too much time, and energy, and money, and experience into the school. And I was like, I’m so close, I just really need to finish. So I took this test, it was like a major sort for UF majors. It gave me my top four. You answer all these questions like, um—

	H:	I’ve done it.



	R:	Yeah like, I don’t know, they’re really—they’re stupid to me. Now that I know what Career Counseling is all about, it makes sense. It gave my top four. I don’t remember my second through fourth, but the first one was Family, Youth & Community Sciences. Now, when I first got to UF, I remember learning about FYCS. I remember distinctively that I was like, Oh that is an underwater basket- weaving major, and that I would never be in it. I was like, Oh that’s for people who want it easy in their school, and so that’s why they choose that major. That’s what I said… so many people know. So it was my number one.I was like you have got to be kidding me, that is not my—I was like, Why? I don’t even know what this is. I don’t want to do anything with family or children. I was like children are okay, but like, family, I was like, youth, community, no. So I was like I have to entertain it because I don’t have any other choice. So I go to the department, and this is really where I just see the favor on my life. Obviously there are so many other examples in my lifetime, but definitely one of favor in God’s eyes. I go into





the department, I remember I talked to the advisor. She told me, she was like, “Oh you have ninety credits right now.” Mind you this was before the semester ended. She was like, “Oh you just missed the cutoff because we stop accepting after ninety-one.” If I would have waited until I finished the semester like I really wanted to I would have really been stuck. I was just like, “Well put me in. Let’s get it going.” So that spring semester I started taking FYCS courses—loved them. I loved them. It’s so funny looking back on it now, it’s like, I ran from that. But in the end, all the circles I had to run came back to the very thing I thought I would never do. So my B.S., I ended up graduating with Family, Youth Communities & Sciences. Now I am currently in a graduate program in the College of Education, Counselor Education, and it’s Marriage & Family Therapy. It’s like everything worked out. From there a lot of things happened, even after that that led me to where I am right now, and I love what I’m doing. I love what I’m studying.

	H:	I’m glad I finally got to that story to figure out what was going on. Well I think you kind of talked about everything.

	R:	Coming back to UF, I never left. It’s good to see different alumni from other years. I love being the youngins. I feel like a lot of people lose hope in our generation. I just really want to be a reminder like, no there are still some of us who have the same ideals, same goals as the older generation. I really just want to learn more about the history of African-Americans at UF. Because I don’t know as much as I feel like I should. Not only just monumental things, but just the little things like climate change, or their experiences now wherever they are in the





Gator Nation or in the world. I think this is cool, that’s why I’m all for Black Alumni Weekend. I love it.

	H:	I’m very excited. Oh wait, this is funny, some events to quickly run through. April 1971 storming of the President’s Office, we weren’t there. [19]76, Roots came out.

	R:	We weren’t there, but I heard about it, and I’ve seen Roots, but obviously not when it came out.

	H:	That’s so funny. And then the protest about naming the O’Connell Center. It’s funny because I’ve heard about these things as like urban legends or myths from back in the day that we hear about, but we really never—you know? And then Black Awareness Movement in [19]91, we still weren’t here. I guess my last question will be, are you proud to be a Florida Gator, Katesha?

	R:	Yeah, I am! Go Gators! H:	Thank you.

	R:	No problem. You’re a great interviewer, you should go into business. H:	I mean you know I’m trying, working on that, multi-tasking.

	R:	That’s true. I need to work on my counseling techniques. I’m just kidding. So Cydney, when were you born?

	H:	I was born on a cold day—no. [Laughter] December 13th. R:	I was like, weren’t you born in Florida?

	H:	No, in Pennsylvania. So it was a cold day. It was in December, it was cold, it was Pennsylvania. I’m guessing that it was cold. December 13th, though, in Pennsylvania.





	R:	How old are you?



	H:	I am twenty-two.



	R:	Awe, you’re a baby! I’m just kidding. [Laughter]



	H:	And you’re one year older than me, by a few months. R:	I know, respect your elders.

	H:	[Laughter] Stop it!



	R:	So tell me a little bit about your family history.



	H:	I am a first generation college student. My mom started college but she never finished. She started at Norfolk State. Of my siblings, it’s just me and my sister. Her name is Joy. I have just that one sister. Of us two, I’m the one that went to college, and hoping that my nephews will go, follow in my footsteps. They’re twins, and so they want to be the next Pouncey twins on the football team.

They’re already amping up for that. They’re like, Yeah you gotta take us up there so we can get on the field. They’re going to love us when we’re the next football twins. That’s my family. So my mom, sister, me, and my nephews.

	R:	I love them, they’re so cute. Of course they’re twins, how can I not love them? You mentioned your mom went to college but did not finish, and that you were the only one of the two of you who went to college. What do you think were some of the messages that you got that it was necessary for you to go to college?

H:  I definitely think we both had a lot of influence from our mom as far as education. That education is basically you’re one ticket to do all the things that I didn’t do. Or capitalize on all these opportunities that I missed, and different things like that.

We definitely got those messages like take pride in your education. Take the time





to learn different things, different skills. Be interested in different topics. It really just came down to a personality thing, different experiences, and lots of different things as far as me and my sister being two different people. A lot of people always ask me like, Oh why didn’t your sister ever go to college? Sometimes college or the university isn’t for everybody. But I definitely think our mom definitely reinforced reading, education. My mom has never bought anyone like birthdays/ Christmas for all of our cousins and stuff. Everybody knows that they’re getting a book from my mom. Basically just the reading and always being inquisitive and learning about different things.

	R:	So you would say your mom has been a major influence in, Okay, maybe I haven’t done the exact same things as what I’m telling you, but this is what you should do. These are the steps you should take.

	H:	I think it’s one of the things that she definitely really really pushed with us because—the fact that she didn’t get to finish. Well, when she got pregnant with my sister is when she left college. And then she just hasn’t gone back to finish. I think she will now that I’m a real adult and she feels like she’s fianlly an empty nester. I think now she does have the desire to go back and finish her degree, and to actually attain higher education. I’m hoping we can kind of do that together.

	R:	What was your education like leading up to UF?



	H:	My education was a lot going on. Like I said, I was born in Pennsylvania and we moved to Florida initially. But our family, we have just a lot of family stuff going on, so my mom is basically kind of like the caretaker for everybody. So we





moved from Florida, to Virginia, to Pennsylvania like a lot. So I switched schools a lot. But I can say that I had a decent education. I didn’t go to one elementary, middle, you know, any of those. I went to like two or three for each, actually. So that was very interesting. It was difficult to keep on the same topics. But the benefit was that I was up north for most of my elementary and middle school, so when I moved to Florida I was ahead of the curriculum here. It’s my opinion that the curriculum up north is just way better than the south. When we moved here I was kind of like ahead. And then in middle school I was in the honors route. And then in high school I went to all-academic academy in Eatonville. I was zoned for Jones or Evans, and I did not want to go to either one of those schools. So I went to Hungerford Prep in Eatonville, Florida. It’s the only high school in that city. It was a good school, it was a magnet program school. It was all academics; we didn’t have any sports. We had some extracurriculars, but it was all centered around academics. So it was really fun. I liked the school a lot. My graduating class was ninety people, ninety-six I think. The whole graduating class. In our school we had like four hundred people. So, it was crazy. And of the ninety-six, I think—both of my two best friends, we ended up coming here. So all three of my best friends came here. Of the top ten of the students at our school, it was like six of us were Black, and all six of us came to UF. So it was pretty fun. I enjoyed my primary education even though it was very—kind of jumping around. I think that has made a lot of my character who I am today.

	R:	Your high school is in Eatonville, which has a strong Black history. Correct me if I’m wrong it was the first—





	H:	I think it was the first Black town, and then founded city in the state of Florida.



Generally one of the first big towns for African-Americans in the South. Then you know, the whole Zora Neale Hurston, all that business is there. And where she did a lot of her writing and where the movie came from. All these things. It’s a really good cultural city for just Black awareness, Black history. It is the one of the oldest Black towns, and it still is predominantly African-American. It’s a small city. They have one high school, one middle, one elementary. And they’re all basically focused on the same things, it’s like Zora Neale Hurston or Hungerford. I don’t know exactly how he played into it, but he was like one of the founding people of the city. And that was what my school was named. But it’s a good city.

	R:	So keeping that in mind, and you know you did mention about you being zoned for Evans and Jones, which are predominantly African-American schools in Orlando. How did that play into your decision to come to the University of Florida?

	H:	My decision to come to the University of Florida was very interesting. I did not want to come here at all. I hated Florida at that point. I was like, as soon as I turn eighteen and I graduate high school nobody is going to tell me nothing. I’m leaving this state, I’m going back up north. I was like, I hate this southern place. Just round and round the rant, right? We had the recruitment sessions with Mike Powell and Dacia Bowra. They came to our school and did one of those sessions. It was basically for the National Honor Society and the Class Presidents. My school was predominantly African-American, anyway, it was the same group of us who always stuck together in our classes. They came, gave a





presentation to us. It ended up that we all applied. I was just sitting in the presentation, I was like when are you guys going to be done so I can go? I don’t want to be here. Basically I had to be there because I was the President of NHS. So I had to be there. But I was like, I don’t even care, I’m not listening to y’all. I don’t want to do it. So my counselor filled out my application, and she was like, Look you need to get this information, put it on here, and sign this, do this, write your statement. And I’m sending this in because you’re applying to Florida. And I was like, “Oh really?” And it’s funny now she’s a soror and she wrote one of my letters. But she was like, “You’re applying to Florida. I don’t care if you don’t even want to be here.” She was like, “You just need to apply to this school.” Because I was like, Oberlin College, and all these places that I wanted to apply to. I was like, “I don’t even care if it’s Norfolk State, I just want to get out of Florida.” So she made me apply. And I turned in everything. It wasn’t necessarily a decision; it was that they accepted me. At then at that time my grandmother had started getting sick and she lived here in Florida. So I was like, “Oh I definitely don’t want to leave now.” It just worked out perfectly. I don’t even remember when I got my letter, but I just ran through the house, and I was like, “I got in! I got in!” Blah blah blah! I was in the inaugural class of the Florida Opportunity Scholarship Program. That was a major influence because I was going to be working day and night to try to afford college somewhere else, when this was a free scholarship, free tuition for four years. That was my decision.

	R:	I’m glad you decided to become a Gator.





	H:	I am, too. I mean honestly I guess it’s kind of just about where your family is from and what you get from your family. Because my family is not from Florida, I didn’t know what the Gators was, I didn’t know anything about orange and blue. I didn’t know any of this. I was just like, “Oh, okay, the colors are nice.” Literally the first time I came to Gainesville was when we set foot here to go to Preview. I went to the very last Preview session before it was over. Before I could come here.

	R:	The last one that’s like, “Look, everyone has to go to Preview, and you haven’t gone.” [Laughter] You need to be here.

	H:	After you get that email three times, I was like, “Oh, I guess I really have to go.



Okay.”



	R:	No I feel you on that one, because I definitely was at that Preview session, too.



	H:	We had never been to Gainesville, none of that. But I’m very happy that I ended up here.

	R:	How have the views or expectations that you came into UF with, how have those changed since you left?

	H:	I didn’t have too many expectations coming in. I did my research, it was a great school, had great ratings at that point. You know, all these different things. So I talked to people that I could. But at my high school there weren’t no alum, any people like that. There was just like a mass of Gator fans. They could talk to me about the sports and talk about the history a little bit. I knew that it was a decent school, good reputation from the people I trusted. So I was like, okay, I guess it’s fine. When I got here for Preview, I just saw the Preview staffers are super like, thirty cups of coffee, energized, and all this stuff. And I was like, Oh these people





are really excited, they’re super hype. I’m kind of a mellow person, more reserved. So I was like—

	R:	What? No you’re not.



	H:	I am sometimes. I was just like oh man these people are super amped up. So I was like, I guess I got to get ready for that, be prepared to be around that.

Honestly, this was the first time that I had been in an environment that was a predominantly White community, or majority community. And that was something that was very interesting to me, and I was excited about it. My perceptions were just—I think I kind of thought it would be just kind of what you make it type of opportunity. Because I knew that, Okay, you’re going into an unfamiliar situation, all these different things. But you’re here to learn, you’re here to go to school. It’s a great opportunity. So just get as much from each experience, positive or negative, as you can. I think that’s what it remains still today. Obviously I love Florida now, and I love UF because of my experiences here. It was definitely a “hope for the best” type of thing when I was coming in.

	R:	When did you start and end UF?



	H:	I started August 2006 and I ended May 2010, four years.



	R:	In those four years what were some of your favorite events or traditions that you experienced?

	H:	Some of my favorite events have been the games for sure. That’s when you really feel the Gator spirit at the stadium when it’s thousands of fans, and all you see is orange and blue. It doesn’t matter what you look like, anything. It’s “Go Gators! We want, defense!” You know? That’s all they care. So the games have





definitely been one of the best experiences I’ve had. The Traditions—I kind of did a few of the Tradition Keeper things. So the painting of the wall, I’ve done that.

34th Street. I’ve done those. I don’t know if it’s necessarily a tradition, but it’s a new, up-and-coming kinda thing, like the flash mobs that they do on campus. I participated in one of those. It was the water gun one. No! Not the water fun. I saw that one, but I wanted to go to that one, I missed that one. I did the map one. Yeah, when everybody—the bells rang and then everybody pulled out their map and asked for directions to go somewhere on Turlington. So it was like crazy, ridiculous. That was fun. Then the Krishna lunch, which I think is a tradition. I really liked the Krishna lunch even though people think they’re kind of weird. I really like the lunch.

	R:	Vegan food?



	H:	I think it’s vegan and like, cruelty free. They’re an interesting group of people. I mean I liked the food, it was good.

	R:	So a lot of your positive, exciting experiences were surrounded with interacting with people, perhaps friends if you guys went to the Krishna lunch or participated in a flash mob. You did mention that some of your classmates came to UF. But how about any of the new people you met? What were those experiences like?

	H:	So being here with my two best friends is funny, because we actually—we’re still friends, but we’ve kind of grown and matured in our own separate paths. That has made room for meeting a lot of different people and it doesn’t pigeonhole you into this person who everybody thinks you are, or anything like that. So it was really great to just get out and meet different types of people. And we kind of





lived the same life. I was an RA, too. So housing was really one of the places where I encountered a lot of diversity, different types of people. I think they do a really good job with hiring their staff and placing their people. Because sometimes it doesn’t work. But in general, there’s usually, you know if you can be positive about however you feel about your placement with housing, you can really meet a lot of people and have a lot of different experiences with them. I made a lot friends, a lot of RA friends who I still talk to this day. Sometimes we go to lunch, different stuff like that. And then like through involvement on campus, especially within the Center for Leadership and Service, I tried to get involved in SG, and it just wasn’t my thing. So I went to the Center for Leadership and Service, and that was one of the places that really helped me get involved and stay involved in campus. Not just get marginalized and, um, I’m here for four years and then I’m out type of thing. But that really gave a lot of, you know, new people to meet, new experiences.

	R:	Sounds like there’s something for everybody. You just have to find your niche, like where you fit in at UF. Because when you think about it, it’s a huge school, huge in every component possible. It’s ridiculously large. By joining an organization it shrinks it.

	H:	It gets smaller every day that you’re here, and that’s good and bad, too. It gives you opportunity to have multiple places that you fit in, the opportunity to express multiple facets of your personality and things that you like, developing new things, all that stuff. I loved it.

	R:	What was your major?





	H:	I was pre-med like everyone else who comes here freshman year. I was pre- med, and then I did some career counseling and completely ignored everything they told me, because I’m stubborn like that. So I stayed pre-med, and I had a very difficult time with just the entry-level, beginning courses. The weed-out classes. I was wed out or whatever. Weeded out. It was very interesting. I just felt like I did good with math and science in high school. I was always interested in medicine. Anything really, I just wanted to do it. So I went back to career counseling, but the first time I had done it, I did it with the CRC. The second time I did it with the Counseling Center. That was completely different. Because it helps you to like—yeah you do the same type of assessments, but the Counseling Center really helps you understand how that fits in with your personality, with the rest of your being. I really appreciated that perspective of it more. So, turns out, my number one major choice was Family, Youth & Community Sciences as well, and then my secondary was Poli-Sci. After my sophomore year I switched to the summer before your junior year, I started taking FYCS classes. I graduated FYCS major, throughout that time I continued to take various Poli-Sci classes and various classes that met my interests in African-American Studies, Political Science, all those things. FYCS though is my degree.

	R:	So I know, at least from my experience, and I’m sure it’s the same for you— FYCS, the professors in the department tend to be a lot more hands-on, a lot more interactive with students. It might be growing now, but it’s a smaller





department in a smaller college. How did that affect you getting connected besides just being in class?

	H:	I would definitely say the fact that you aren’t waiting just in a big, huge room of people for your advisor, and you get the same advisor every time. That was one thing when I was in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences that really made it difficult for me. Because I would get sent to this person, and this person, and that person. They would tell me three different things. I always had my same advisor when I was in College of Ag. And then just in our program, I think the people who work in our field, in Human Services and Social Services, just by their nature and who they are, they care more about the person, and not about, this is your prescriptive thing you need to do. I think they’re used to dealing with people. And used to understanding like, yeah, this is just a decision you have to make, it’s just your major, or whatever. But understanding what that means to the human person of you. So it was really good. I really liked getting involved with them. And then it was easy because we had a club for our major. I participated in the FYCS Club a little bit. It was cool because you could still keep your other involvement and still be satisfied with your coursework as well.

	R:	You mentioned the FYCS Club, were there any other organizations you were a part of?

	H:	I started out in the Black Student Union. I really liked the Black Student Union initially, and I still do. Just I couldn’t continue a high level of involvement in there and then doing everything else. I was involved in the Black Student Union, multiple organizations in the Center for Leadership and Service. I participated in





FAB and all these different organizations there. Lead 101, which is an organization that helps present leadership workshops and different things for other organizations on campus. I did a mentoring program for my scholarship, the FOS Program, which I think is really great and I hope they can continue it because people really need that scholarship. I did Habitat for Humanity. Basically anything that piqued my interests. I did workshops with an organization called GHIVE. And they do HIV/ AIDS education workshops. So that was really interesting just talking with people about something that’s generally uncomfortable for a lot of people. Then I joined Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, the same year you did. Obviously. [Laughter]

	R:	Line sister. [Laughter]



	H:	That was something I had always wanted to do, and very beneficial to just the college experience.

	R:	I agree at least with that last statement, and with the rest of it. But definitely, for me, joining a sorority—it completed the experience. I branched out and I’d tapped into a number of other cultures, communities and experiences that I probably would have never gotten if I had chosen to go somewhere else. And then also, it brought it back home. It was like, how do you incorporate all of that into your world, what you make of your life, your being as well? You mentioned a slew of organizations, which I don’t even know how you—Did you sleep?

	H:	A planner and coffee.



	R:	That lovely career planner from the Career Resource Center. H:	I got mine from Hume.





	R:	Oh. What did you do outside of class?



	H:	Outside of class, my involvement was kind of like, really what I did outside of class. I still hung out with my best friends who were here, and then other friends who I had. But overall I just kind of did involvement, schoolwork, I did a lot of volunteering. I volunteered at the Boys & Girls Club. I was a teacher’s aide at Eastside High School for two semesters. It was for a program mentoring at-risk youth. That was really something that was interesting. I did still type of involvement-y type of things, but I didn’t feel that way about them. It was just like something that I wanted do. Other than that I’m kind of like a real homebody, I crochet, I cook, that’s all. Sometimes I would go out. I did my partying freshmen year, and sophomore year, and that summer after sophomore year. Then my partying dwindled. You still go out a few places. I definitely branched out recently, my last year, with my social activities, and not just going to the same ol’ clubs and being with the same people. I definitely started going to like, Eight Seconds, the country club. Different bars, all those things. And then I went to France, it was great. I went on a study abroad program to France for an entire semester, it was amazing, changed my life. I learned basic French, policy, all types of things. It was just great, I loved it. And I’m moving back in a few years. You can visit me.

	R:	Oh, will do. So not only are you a part of the Gator Nation in the US—



	H:	Let me tell you. Sorry, wait a minute. It was football season. I went last fall, fall 2009 to France, the International Relations in the Public Sphere Program. It was football season, and we were watching the game in this Canadian pub/bar type of thing. All the other TVs were on rugby and there was one TV stuck in the





corner in the back of the bar. After we begged they put it on American football. Like, Ugh, why do you want to watch that? Like the French people were like, Ugh, Le American, blah, blah, blah. All these things. And so we get the football, we’re watching it, and we went out in all of our sweaters, and our pins, we had Gator Nation pins all over the place, and hats, and all types of stuff. All of the people in our program were from UF or Gator fans. So we went to the bar, and then we’re in there and like, clean across the bar there’s these three guys, and they’re looking for the game. You could tell they were looking for something.

They had on orange hats. So we were like, Are they Gators? It was like baseball caps in France, who else? So they came over and it was the biggest, Go Gators! There was a touchdown and they screamed. We found them and we gave them our Gator Nation Is Everywhere pins. It was crazy, because in this random bar, it’s a hole-in-the-wall bar, on a busted little street in Paris, there was like all of our program of Gators and then these three guys. And then we met this other lady when we were walking down the street back to our flat, so it was crazy. She’s like oh my gosh, you guys are Gators? She was like, I went there for my master’s program, my husband was an undergrad, though. And it’s so random. She lived in my room in Tolbert. Like when I was a resident in Tolbert freshmen year. She lived in my room, in Tolbert Hall. It was crazy. I was like how weird is that? It was kind of creeping me out. She was like oh my gosh, you guys are so awesome. I still email her. She was like if you guys ever need anything when you get back to the States, just contact us. We’ll still be backing, but email, whatever. It was





crazy. So yeah, I emailed her a few months ago. That’s when I really realized the Gator Nation is everywhere. It was so beautiful. I loved it.

R:   I think it’s moments like that where it really solidifies the connection we all have to the campus, but also to each other. I think that’s the best part of becoming a Gator.

H:   It’s forever.



	R:	You always have that common bond. So with that, and this will be to end, what would you say to the next generation of Gators?

	H:	To the next generation of Gators I would definitely say, regardless of someone else’s experiences or even your own past experiences, just really come to UF with an open mind and open heart. Because really, it’s going to be what you choose to make it. Regardless of your negative or your positive experiences, you determine the value that those have to you. If you have a horrible negative experience, then you can minimize that value, keep it moving, and do something else with it. You know what I mean? You really just have to make decisions on the emphasis that you’re going to place on the positive or the negative things.

And then just do what you can about it from there. But nothing is going to change if you don’t put in the work. Just don’t be stagnate. Always try to learn new things and experience new things. If you don’t like it, then you don’t have to do it again. But just really get as much of it as you can. Because I think I realized kind of later on just how great the opportunity is to be here, when there are so many other people who are less fortunate and don’t ever have the chance to come to an institution like this. I’m happy that I realized at some point. I guess some people





never do. But just really, really maximize everything. It’s ridiculous the amount of opportunities we have here. And Go Gators!

	R:	Well thank you Cydney. H:	Thank you Katesha.

	R:	This has been a wonderful, wonderful time.



	H:	I know. My little chat with you kind of ran long. I don’t know how to turn this off. [End of Interview]





	Audit edited by:	Holland Hall, June 19, 2017