AAHP 171; Rawls; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 171 John C. Rawls

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Matletha Fuller on April 13, 2011 2 hours, 19 minutes | 40 pages



Abstract: Dr. John C. Rawls was born in East Palatka, Florida, and grew up in Gainesville. He describes his family history and his home life from those early times, including his parents’ parenting philosophy and their family dynamics. Dr. Rawls describes going to Lincoln High School in his youth, and then later returning there to teach—and he reflects on the teaching philosophy that guided him through his career, and that characterized Lincoln High more broadly. Dr. Rawls attended North Carolina A&T University, and shares some of his memories of those experiences as well.





[Keywords: African American History; Putnam County, Florida; Alachua County, Florida; Lincoln High School]





















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP-171

Interviewee: John Rawls Interviewer: Matletha Fuller Date of Interview: April 13, 2011



	F:	Good morning. It is April 13, 2011. This is Matletha Fuller, an intern with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, in the libraries of the Graham Center at Pugh Hall on the campus at the University of Florida. And our interviewee today is Dr. John C. Rawls. Dr. Rawls, thank you so much for participating in the interview today.

	R:	You are quite welcome.



	F:	The purpose of this interview is to discuss briefly the life of Dr. John C. Rawls and his thoughts on Lincoln High School and how integration influenced the education there and education in general. Okay we’ll start with—what is your date and place of birth?

	R:	August 22, 1923. My place of birth was East Palatka, Florida. My parents lived here in Gainesville, but when it was time for my birth, she went to East Palatka to be with her people for assistance. Then after six weeks, she came back to Gainesville and I came back to Gainesville with her. So that’s the whole idea of my birth.

	F:	Who are your parents? What are the names of your parents? R:	Oh, the names of my parents?

	F:	Yes.



	R:	My father’s name was Owen Rawls, R-A-W-L-S, and he was born here in Gainesville. He grew up here in Gainesville. My mother’s name was Lona, L-O- N-A, Babb and she was born in East Palatka, Florida.

	F:	And that is Bab, B-A-B?











	R:	B-A-B-B.



	F:	Oh, okay.



	R:	Her birth was just about 20 miles down the Archer Road—not the Archer Road, but the Williston Road, at a place called Raleigh, North Carolina. She was married in Archer, Florida. After her marriage in Archer Florida, my father who lived in Gainesville, brought her on here to Gainesville.

	F:	So your family has a long history in Gainesville?



R:  Yes, uh-huh. I was christened in the same church that my father was christened. Two of my children were christened in that same church, here in Gainesville. So, Gainesville has been hometown.

F:   Do you believe that contributes to the importance of family in history?



	R:	Very much so, by my grandparents, paternal, being in Gainesville, and as far as I know they were born in Gainesville. I don’t know too much about my paternal grandparents. My father’s mother passed when he was about six years old and his father took sick. He passed when my father was twelve years old. He had to stop school to take care of his father. When he did that he decided to remain here in Gainesville. He was a cook at the time. Well that’s what he did for his life for the most part, and he has a rental property that he dealt in, a little bit, that kind of thing.

F:   Do you have any siblings?



	R:	Yes, I have one brother who attended Howard University Medical School. He became a surgeon in Indianapolis, Indiana. He also got his Ph.D. from Indiana







University. He was Associate Dean at the medical school, at the Indiana University. He was also the only Black person who, I guess you call it President, of the Indiana Medical Association. That was quite an honor.

	F:	Yeah, definitely. And is that your only sibling? R:	Huh?

	F:	And that is your only sibling?



	R:	Living. I have two brothers who passed in infancy and another brother who passed when he was in his seventies. So there were four brothers, five brothers all total. But only three of us came up together because two passed in infancy.

	F:	And could you describe your home life for me, like when you were a child? R:	Now, what do you want to know?

	F:	Like, your mother, did she work, did she take care of the family?



	R:	Okay, my mother, before she met my father, taught school down in Grove Park, Florida – have you ever been through Grove Park?

	F:	I haven’t been through Grove Park but I know where it is.



	R:	Uh-huh, down the road. She married my father she was more interested in being a seamstress but they talked and talked and she changed her mind to being a beautician. Being a beautician, she thought that she could contribute more to family life and love for the children by being home all the time. She had her beauty parlor right there in the house; she didn’t have to go out. When we left for school, going to Lincoln school, she was home. When we came in in the afternoon she was home. So it wasn’t like leaving to go to work before we left to go to school and it wasn’t like looking under the mat to get the key to get in the







house. But, she was there and she could provide something for us when we came home. Also, the having been a teacher, she could help us with our homework. Although my father was only a sixth grade scholar, he had to leave school to take care of his parents and drop out of school. But he was interested in education and I perhaps learned more, or got more help, as I reflect back now, from him than I did my mother. He was a great scholar for spelling and for phonics. But I don’t know if he knew it was phonics, or not. But as I reflect back, I learned most of my phonics from him because he taught us how to spell. When you’re getting ready to spell a word, pronounce the word fully then spell it and then pronounce the word. And I remember learning how to spell the word elephant in first grade because he had taught: divide the word in syllables, pronounce it properly. “Ele-phant” but one thing he never, he might have told us, but I did learn from my mother in first grade –ph has a sound of f. Because I used to say, see a sign that said phone and it looked like to me that that ought to be “pahone”. My mother said, “no, -ph has a sound of f-f-f-f-f phone.” Okay, that was education, now. When my parents, before they got married, it’s my understanding, that my father told my mother if there are any children come in they will go to my Pleasant United Methodist Church. That was his church. My mother was a Baptist because her mother was a Baptist. Her father was an AME, African American Methodist. She wanted to be an AME coming up as a child but her father gave into her mother, okay you a Baptist, she can be a Baptist, I am a Methodist I go on alone. So, we were well-grounded and Saturday night shin your shoes because we had to go to Sunday school. We had a fence around our







house, it’s over in northwest Gainesville, and we were not permitted to go outside of the yard without permission. If we wanted to go out in the street and catch ball or what not, we had to get permission, “Could we go out on the street?” And most of the time while we were out in the street catching ball my father would be sitting on the porch to make sure that we were in front of his house, his yard and not the neighbors. Three boys, there were no girl chores, there were chores. We operated those chores on a weekly basis. I cleaned the kitchen up one week, my older brother cleaned the kitchen a week, but my younger brother he was too little to clean the kitchen. When my older brother graduated from high school my younger brother was old enough then to assume that week. My mother ironed our shirts, but everything else to be ironed I’ll do it, to do the ironing, cleaning, I would do this, to do the cleaning. We didn’t grow up “girls do this and boys do that” all of us do by the week. And the week would always start Sunday and would end Saturday night. I was to turn the kitchen over to my brother, clean, all dishes cleaned and put away and all scrubbing done, nicely and neatly. So it was one of those things that if you turn the light on, turn it off. If you mess up a dish clean it, if you drop something on the floor, pick it up because nobody gonna come behind you and pick it up. So then you do this just like that. We lived. My father had gardens and three pecan trees in the yard, fig bushes in the yard, peach trees in the yard, pear trees in the yard. He grew cucumbers. He grew string beans. He grew black eyed peas. He grew corn. He raised collard greens, mustard greens. All of those things we had them there in the yard fresh vegetables, fresh fruits and they were canned – string beans, canned peaches,







canned pears, and all that. It always appeared whenever he’s going to—see, my father was a cook—to can peaches it would be my week to wash dishes. That’s why I don’t care for canned peaches today. Before my wife and I got married, I said don’t cook me any canned peaches, canned pears cause I am not going to eat them. I don’t want them. Canned figs and canned watermelon rinds, that sort of thing. Well this was something new to her because canned peaches were— Del Monte canned peaches, “You’re not going to eat them?” “No, I don’t want any canned peaches. Don’t put ‘em before me and if you put ‘em before me I am not going to eat them.” I still hold on to that I do not eat canned peaches. I do not eat canned figs, canned watermelon rinds, canned pears. Unh-uh. Not my cups of tea.

	F:	What if they’re not canned?



	R:	Well if they’re not canned I will eat those [laughter]. If they are not canned, I will eat ‘em. There was always something at home to eat. Fruit, and whenever we had a big breakfast in the morning; grits, bacon, sausage, and biscuits. One other thing with biscuits, mama would put ‘em in what was called a warmer for eight hours. The stove was a wooden stove, and a wooden stove was on heat for a long during the day, and those biscuits would be warm. Well I could eat the biscuits with syrup and we were never hungry. There was always somethin’ to eat. Go out and get a plum, or peaches, or grapes. Get some pecans and crack the pecans, there’s always something there to eat. So that was generally my growing up experience.







	F:	What’s so interesting is that they talk about generational gaps and things, but when you speak I draw so many correlations between my own family life. My father was never college educated, but most of my education came from my father. He left school and went to the boys home in tenth grade and he’s from South Carolina. He used to grow—my mom used to get on him all the time—he used to grow all types of things in our backyard. She was like, “Jim, you know you’re not gonna [laughter] be out there tendin’ to any garden” or whatever. My mom never—she went to college later on after we got older and were able to help her [laughter]. She never went to college, and just the family—my dad cooked all the time after he got disabled, after the Vietnam War, he stayed at home and he cooked all the time and even though we didn’t have as much money as many people, like you said it was always something to eat, always. I just think that that groundwork for family at such a young age influences so much in your later life.

	R:	Another thing with the three of us boys, we’re like stair steps. Bum, bum bum…and we always had hand-me-downs and I got tired wearing my brothers’ hand-me-downs and he was kind of rough on clothes too. But one thing that helped me to say “I’m going to be independent through a degree and get me a job, and when I get me a job, I’ll buy my own clothes.” And my first job, I was in fifth grade, and I was being paid ten cents an hour. [Laughter]

	F:	I can’t imagine.



	R:	Ten cents an hour to carry wood in for a family and carry ashes out and sweep and take care of the yard and that kind of thing. And during the summer I worked







all day long from eight until five and, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, one, two, three, four, five.

	F:	Nine hours?



	R:	Nine hours and she would give me maybe a sandwich and I’d eat the sandwich and she didn’t pay me for eating a sandwich, thirty minutes. Though she didn’t pay me for thirty minute. She said “That was your lunch break.” And so really I didn’t make a dollar a day, but I knew how to spend my money and we were going to school. I would have a nickel and I would buy—have you ever heard of Mike N’ Ike?

	F:	Yeah.



	R:	I’d buy and Mike N’ Ikes and that would be my lunch. And these silver bells, get five of them for a penny. I’d get me twenty five of those and that would be my lunch and because see my parents said “You’re working now? So if you gonna eat lunch, you do that,” because we didn’t have any lunch rooms and I didn’t want to be carrying any greasy pans, cold biscuits with mayonnaise on ‘em or syrup. So, that was somewhat home life but it was wholesome, I like to look back now and I say well, I think I had a nice home life. It was a learning experience and on Saturdays my mother would start brushing hair at seven o’clock and then the last customer would be coming by eight o’clock at night so my father would cook supper and he would mess up so many dishes. Because you see he was a cook and he’d mess up a spoon, the dishwasher washed that spoon her, washed the spoon and oh, he’s mess up so many dishes. So I cooked and washed my dishes, when it wasn’t my time to wash dishes and I said I’ll come out quicker







and better and easier cooking and washing dishes, then I would with him cooking and not washing dishes. So that was home life.

	F:	And about the education how is it that you think that not having parents you know with a lot of education, as well as myself, that you’re so successful as I can see and hopefully I can be successful as well?

	R:	Inspiration! See it came down from them. Two things or two places I did not have to ask permission to go and that was daily school; that was a duty and Sunday school; that was a duty. Now after I got my job, I would just let them know “I go to work tomorrow if that’s okay.” But I let them know I had to go to work. Now if we wanted to go down to what we called the Recreation Center, which was two blocks from the house, we had to get permission to go down there. If we argued, my brother, my brothers and I would argue, my older brother’s responsibility was to get his reader and go in the room and read. And my duty—I read real well and spelled good because of the phonics that they taught. I took piano lessons and my duty was to sit at that piano and play every hymn on the first hundred pages, twice. Well that was to help me, with my piano and with his reading, spelling or his understanding or whatnot. My mother knew a little but about piano. A little bit. And my father knew nothing about piano but he knew how to count in music.

	F:	Yeah okay.



	R:	One, two, three four, the beats. And the piano’s in here and he would be sitting on the front porch and if I made a mistake, he would come and let me know “You made a mistake, you didn’t count that right.” He had paid somebody to teach himself voice but I don’t think his pocket could afford that, so he had to stop. So







he taught do, re, mi, fa, so, la, ti, do and that kind of thing and count the measures: one, two, three, four, one, two, three, four and the sharps and the flats. So he could guide me and my mother could guide me a little bit too. But it was the inspiration which they instilled in us that they wanted us to be better off than they were. They were better off than their parents, and they taught us that that’s the only way to help our race to be better. Each generation be better off than the previous generation. So consequently, they saw to it that we bought into that principle and when we graduated from high school, my older brother wanted to be a funeral director but my father didn’t want that. Then he wanted to be a policeman. My father didn’t want him to be a policeman. My father told him he needed to be—he was very very good with his hands—he wanted him to go into industrial education: carpentry, cabinet making, shoe repair and that kind of thing. And my older brother wasn’t interested in that but Papa did send him to Savannah State College up in Savannah, Georgia. He loved radio and electricity and the whole thing but he wasn’t gonna do that so he went to the military. And I always wanted to be a concert pianist in elementary school, high school. I was going to be a concert pianist. Well, my parents bought into that. I chose the school I wanted to go to: Talladega. I was there for a year and during that year I was there, they racked up on tuition and room and board three times in one year and so my father told me when I came home for the summer, “If you plan to go back to school, you better choose a cheaper school.” So I chose North Carolina A&T and I went there with the idea that I was going to study piano under a professors who had traveled and studied abroad with Arthur [inaudible 31:00].







And when I got there, he had just left to go to Howard to be Dean of Music. I was so out done; I didn’t even know what to do. And the person they brought in wasn’t a pianist at all. He was a voice person. So, I stayed there that year and Uncle Sam called me so I went to—but see it was instilled in us that we were to be a little better off than a cook and a beautician, housewife and homemaking mother. My younger brother, he wanted to be a doctor and my father doubted that so he told my younger brother that spring and early summer, “Okay I can’t change you but if you want to be a doctor, you put five hundred dollars in my hand, cash money…” He said, “I’ll see you through medical school.” So, his mother, our mother and him, together, got five hundred dollars from all those hair dressing, and he worked at Alachua General Hospital and so he came up to Papa with the five hundred dollars and Papa said “So you meant business?” He said, “Yeah that’s what you told me.” He said “Okay.” He said, “Apply to FAMU, I’ll see you then.” And he cried, applied up there and FAM didn’t respond. So Papa told him, “If they’re going to accept you, they should have responded by now. I want you to write the President. Don’t write any Dean and no professor of no department, you write the President.” My brother wrote the President and bam he got an answer. “Yes you are accepted.” So he went up to FAMU and he was the first student at FAMU to graduate with all A’s and his roommate graduated with one B and all A’s and both of them went to Howard. My younger brother got a fellowship—Pepsi-Cola Scholarship—to go to any school he wanted to. So he went to Howard. They paid his tuition, room and board and gave him sixty- something dollars a month to live on and if he made passing grades that would







be for another year, another year, another year. So he graduated from Howard and interesting thing, his roommate at FAMU, all A’s and one B. My brother— both of them went to Howard—roommates and were very opposite in their grades. My brother one B, and the roommate all A’s. So it was inspiration and I not only inspiration but, when you inspire somebody, you got to captivate them, don’t alienate them. And then freed ‘em just like our tree, an azalea bush out there, cultivated, see if I want beautiful azaleas I got to put some fertilizer around her. So then inspire, motivate, captivate and cultivate. And as I reflect back, that’s what my parents did for us. So, I think that’s the type of thing because they never told us, “You got to go to college.” And with my children, their mother and I never told them, “You got to go to college, you got to go here, you got to go there, you go to do this.” But as my daughter used to say all the time, “You know Daddy? You don’t never told us we got to go to college, but we just thought that was our responsibility. We just thought that we were here on this earth and we had to college.” “That’s why I’m glad that you thought like that.” But, I said, “What we were trying to do, inspire you to be something. We wanted you to play basketball if you wanted to, volleyball if you wanted to, football if you wanted to, play a sport if you wanted to and we were getting there and we would see you play and we would pick you up and bring you back home. If you needed something we would provide it and that’s what a parent’s supposed to do”. And she said, “You all did all of that.” So consequently our children, we have four— One went to, well let’s see, yeah one went to FAMU, and he wanted to be a dentist. But he wasn’t that good in science, but I didn’t tell him, his mother didn’t







tell him. We carried him up there, get him signed up with that physics and zoology and chemistry and all that so he changed his major—

	F:	I think so!



	R:	To hospital administration and he got his degree in that. Then he fell in love with occupational specialty. That’s what it is, therapy.

	F:	Occupational therapy, yes.



	R:	Occupational therapy and he got the degree in occupational therapy but we didn’t tell him he had to go up there. He was down here talking about he gonna be a dentist and going to A&M because his uncle went to A&M and made all this perfect score, but he thought wrong see. The second boy went to South Florida well we went to South Florida with the idea that he was going to play soccer and we carried him up to Connecticut, Yukon. Connecticut had a good soccer team and we carried him up there for an interview and he came down to South Florida for an interview. South Florida accepted him like that. Then when he went to sign up to study, the South Florida coach had already picked his team and never saw my son play but he signed him up to keep him from going to Yukon or keep him from going to Cedar Keys or some other place. So my son came home at the end of that year. His reply was, “If y’all want me to go back to college, choose a different school for me. I want to go to an all-Black school. I don’t want to go to a White school.” So we sat down and “Well what do you wanna do?” “I want to study business.” Well he rushed out to Santa Fe and took an Accounting class and they well learned it. So he was going to go to a Black school so we told him, “Sign up for South Carolina State, North Carolina A&T, Alabama State,







Tennessee State, and Southern University.” I think that was one of the schools, yeah, “and Jackson State, and South Carolina State and Tuskegee.” South Carolina State accepted him just like that. Well we said that we’ll wait. A&T, accepted him just like that. And the day that he was supposed to got his letter, Southern which accepted him—Southern State their administration. So we carried him on out to A&T. He did real well out there and was just out looking at the football team practice and they didn’t have a punter. So he told the coach, he said “You don’t have a punter?” “No, we need one”, so he said, “I punt.” He said “You a punter?” “Yeah I’m a punter.” Right now he did not that much punting at

P.K Young so the coach said “Let’s see what you can do.” So the coach said, “You know you’re alright.” So they signed him up and gave him a scholarship. So that’s where he went to school. My daughter, we asked her where she want to go to school she said, “It doesn’t matter”. Because see she wasn’t gonna get too far from home, we knew that so we got her up at A&M. I told you we pick up my younger boy, went to Howard. But we never told them that they had to do this or they had to do that, they just assumed since we were educators that they had to be educators too. Well, that’s the best way that we could do. Try to inspire them and not with “Yak, yak, yak.” But by doing things to inspire them and they’ll be better off like that; being inspired than being told. Now if you got to tell them then you tell them but look out down the road.

	F:	What were your earliest memories of your education? Where did you first receive education?

	R:	Say what?







	F:	What was your earliest memories of your education and where did you first receive your education? Like starting from the beginning. Well as far as you can remember.

	R:	Well they had what was called “primer” which is kindergarten. Prime. That was over at A. Quinn Jones School now. You know where A. Quinn Jones is?

	F:	I don’t know where it is but I know of it.



	R:	That was Lincoln High School and they had primer through twelfth grade there.



So all of my public schooling was at Lincoln High School and I guess I must have had a pretty good primer teacher because in first grade I learned a whole lot. And second grade, I learned a lot. I remember all of my teachers’ names and if we would go over to that school now, I could tell you every room that I had, what teacher taught me. And third grade were good teachers. Fourth grade, was the worst teacher I’ve ever had in all my life and all she was interested in was teaching the girls how to dance. Dancing and all of that. That was all she was doing. I can’t think of iota of a thing that she taught me. I can’t remember any book that I studied out of. I can’t remember anything other than this room was my fourth grade classroom, that’s all I could remember. No song, no time tables, no multiplication, no addition, absolutely nothing could I remember. Fifth grade I remember real well that teacher and sixth grade I remember real well that teacher. I’m getting ready now to write my autobiography and I’ve been saying, “Who was my best elementary teacher?” And my fifth grade and sixth grade teacher rose at the top. And I kept trying to get one, so I’ve now included my sixth grade teacher. I think the main thing why I included her as my top one, two







things: her husband had divorced her, see we didn’t have any lunchroom back there then and she was living with her family. I think she had to provide her own food. But, she had a lady to cook her lunch about a block from school and I went to pick up her lunch and brought it to school for her and that lady could really cook. [Laughter] And the lady would always say, “Now you have to sit down and eat yours first.” And I sat down and I ate mine first. That I think helped to raise her. Of course the fact she was also my piano teacher from the time I was in her classroom, the summer before that, straight through high school and she used to give me a music book called “The A-Tune” which came out once a month and old ones or if this one wasn’t what she wanted, she would give it to me. And I would always read them and there would always be something in them saying, “A Concert Pianist.” It was an organ section in it. There was a violinist section and an orchestra section and a voice section. I would read most of those and see, she inspired me and then what I just indicated, she captivated my attention and then she cultivated it when I was in seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth grades. And then, for my senior year I had asked her then—she didn’t music at the school. We didn’t have any music teacher. She just did the playing for our chapel and that lady could play that piano and I mean she played by notes and what was on that playing page. And I asked her one day what was the name of that song that she always played for graduation. She said “You talking about War March of the Priests?” I said, “I guess so” she said, “By Mendelssohn.” So she taught me that and she said, “I’m going to teach you a piece and I want you to play that on your high school commencement program.”







So, she taught me Rachmaninoff’s “Prelude in C Sharp Minor” and I couldn’t memorize that. I couldn’t memorize it to save my life. Until the day before commencement, I played it from memory but I said, “I can’t get up there, just learning that today from memory and play that tomorrow because I’m going to be too excited and I’m going to forget.” So I told, I said to her, “Ms.Jones, I just cannot get out there and play this.” So she yielded and she said, “Okay, I’ll turn the pages for you.” So, I played it and I played it from memory but I guess she was right there and I guess that carried me through and so well for elementary.

For high school, my English teacher, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, we did what we wanted to in this class. He’d tell us, he was also our sponsor, every year seventh through twelfth. He would tell us to write a theme and we would tell him, “Write you a theme?” He said, “Yeah y’all write a theme of seventy-five words and bring it in tomorrow.” And we said, “Man you must be crazy, you think we gonna write you a theme?” “I’m not gonna write you any themes, seventy-five words.” And he’s say, “Well I’m gonna cut it down to fifty. Y’all write it down.” So we said, “We not gonna write you a theme of fifty.” He said, “Y’all gonna bring that in. So tomorrow—” see everybody calling me J.C.—“J.C. read your theme.” I was supposed to stand up and I got my notebook, open my notebook it wasn’t— you don’t see anything here do you? [Laughter] “What I’m going to do this summer” and I would just pretended what I got in there. He said, “Oh that’s good that’s good, that’s good. Elouise read your theme.” Elouise would get her notebook—you gonna see there aint nothing there? Okay, twelfth grade. I think Ms. Jones taught twelfth grade English. When he said, “Write a theme,”we had to







write a theme. But I chose the high school teacher who taught geometry. Geometry, trigonometry, geometry, geometry. All the boys had to take geometry. Girls could choose geometry or home economics. For those they thought were going to go to college, the proctor put them in geometry. But we resented it and we didn’t like the teacher. She was just out of college. She grew up around here from a aristocratic family and we just wasn’t gonna like her. So, one day we said “Why do we have to sit up in here anyway? All of this doesn’t make sense, geometry, we don’t need that.” And she stopped teaching and told us what geometry was and we passed geometry, most of us, everyday going home and you can see the geometry. And when she told us where geometry was in Gainesville, the buildings, they couldn’t have built the building without a knowledge of geometry. Well, the church that I attended had geometrical windows, stained, beautiful windows. Students who lived on the other side of town passed the First Baptist church downtown where there was Corinthian columns. The Presbyterian Church was just down the street, the old Presbyterian Church, with beautiful, stained windows—All round windows in the sun. After she told us that, we fell in love with her and we fell in love with geometry. So she came out on top in that category.

	F:	I’m sorry I was gonna ask you, what was the teacher’s name in sixth grade? R:	In sixth grade?

	F:	Yes, the sixth grade teacher.



	R:	Fredrika M. Jones, we called her Ms. F.M. Jones. She was the principal’s wife. F:	Yeah I read.







	R:	And I told you about my first year in college as a music major and I didn’t go back. I didn’t have any bad experiences there but the cost of a college education is a little too much. I went to North Carolina A&T for one year and then I went to military service. Well, when I got to military service, my fingers were getting stiff because I wasn’t using them. I did learn how to type though at North Carolina A&T and the school, the college, asked the teacher to choose the best student, no the two best students, for typing for offices there on campus and I was one that was chosen. And I think the first year we had the quarter system. I wouldn’t have seen a type writer, never touched a typewriter before then but all students in Arts and Sciences had to learn how to do something with their fingers. That could be learning how to cook, learn how to make brooms and mattresses, learn radio, learn plumbing, carpentry and those kinds of things. So, I chose typing and when I went in there, the first day the teacher said, “Now the quarter will end at the Christmas vacation. You go home, and when you come back there will be another quarter and you got to be able to type at least twenty-five words a minute by the end of the quarter.” I said to myself, “Typing twenty-five words a minute? I can see myself flunking that right now.” So a friend from Ashville told me “Don’t drop it, I’ll help you.” I said to myself—he taught it, he took it in high school, I said to myself, “Now how can he help teach me typing when I got to sit to the typewriter doing it. There’s not something I got to write, and he help me write it you know and trying to figure it out and he help me figure it out.” So my friend said, “Go ahead and stay in there.” And by the end of the quarter, I was typing thirty-one words a minute and he was barely making his twenty-five. So I was







chosen to be one of the top two. So they sent me to the Department of Social Studies to be the typist for the head. I guess you could say I joined Alpha [Phi Alpha Inc.] then. I [inaudible at 1:04:04] on campus and then I graduated and I went to the University of Iowa and got a Master of Arts degree in Economics. But I started there in the summer of [19]48 and the former [19]48 I went to a school in Alabama to teach. At one time it was a private school operated by the American Missionary Association and it was pulling out and the state was taking over and so I taught History and I took on a class of typing because I could type so well. I taught that free of charge outside of my regular schedule. Then I said, “High school teaching is not for me. I got to be a college teacher.” So I went to the University of Iowa for four years and got my degree in January and remained on through the summer and I passed Ph.D. French and I got signed up for my Ph.D. Then I went to Prairie View State in Texas and taught there five years and got a leave of absence to go back to Iowa and I was supposed—an advisor had me all down to get my degree, my Ph.D. either [19]57 or [19]58. So I came home, it was sitting on the front porch and the principal at Archer—and I’d been trying to get on here in this county for low years—came by the house and asked me did I want a job. I said, “Yes.” He said, “I have an opening for a social studies and one in music. But I’d like to get you to teach music.” I said, “Well I’m not certified in music and I’m a long way from being certified.” He said, “But you play the piano so beautifully.” I said, “Well, but I haven’t had the formal coursework and I took some sight reading and some rudiments of voice and studied violin for a couple of years and all that.” He said, “What I’ll do is let you teach all music and one







twelfth grade class of government.” I said, “Okay, fine.” So I went to Archer and taught that. Then from there they closed that school at the end of that year down to eighth grade and I moved into Lincoln—that was the new Lincoln that year—to teach science and social studies and I was invited to join the class at Nova University to work on my Doctorate degree there. I said, “Well now, if I was teaching high school, I don’t need any Ph.D. in economics. Just go ahead and take some education leadership classes and said I could do that at the university out there.” I said, “But I don’t want to go to the University of Florida.” So I joined a group and we studied at Nova, and got my Doctorate degree from Nova University. I rose to the position of Department Head of Social Studies at Lincoln, then Assistant Principal and then Principal here at the school district. So that’s the extent of my education.

	F:	We talked about your teacher. So many people talk about Lincoln with such fond memories, was it something special about Lincoln that captured your heart as well especially since you went back?

	R:	Yes. Now I’m talking about now as a teacher, and education leader. I’m not talking about me as student now. Okay, one thing I learned at Lincoln when I was a teacher my first teaching job over there at Lincoln, I knew I was in school with a level of parents. Albert White’s mother and I were—I think I was a grade ahead of her. When she came in the night when we had open house, she came in and I said, “Oh.” I said, “I don’t know your name now but Al to me is Higgins.” She said, “Yes, you remember me.” I said, “You know I know you.” I said, “You have a student? You have a child here?” She said, “Yes I have a child here and you’re







teaching him first period in the morning.” I said, “I am?!” She said, “Yes so you teaching history?” I said, “Who is it?” and she called on Albert’s brother. I said, “Oh, how nice” and then she said, “You have my full support.” She said, “I’m sending him here for him to learn.” She said, “I know you’re going to teach him and you require him to learn and if he gives you any problems, you call me.” Well another parent would come and I’d say, “Oh.” I enjoyed when I would meet these parents to give them a good word about their children and even when I became assistant principal—A good example is a boy; he was just giving his teachers problems. Eighth or ninth grade oh, he was a mess. His father was the head custodian at Duval Elementary School. And I would call him and he was a minister. I called him I said, “Red, you got to come out.” I said, “I need you.” I said, “This boy is giving all kinds of problems out here.” So the last time he came, he said, “Mr.Rawls,” right in front of the boy. “Mr.Rawls,” he said, “I’m tired of getting off my job having to come out here. See I want you to do anything that you want to do to him. All I ask of you is leave breath in his body.” I said “Okay.” I said, “Boy you here that?” Said “You’re daddy told me to do anything I want, you just need breath in your body.” I said, “He didn’t say how much breath. Imma leave like that much breath in your body. Just a little breath for you to get out of my office, and head down in your room and fall out and die.”

	F:	No more problems.



R:  No more problems with that boy. Now the daddy worked with me [Hand Clap]. I worked with the daddy [Hand Clap]. Another lady—this boy just wouldn’t get to school on time. So I called her and told her, “You know you and I need to get







together before we talk to him.” And I said, “Now, I want you to talk to him very firmly and don’t laugh, don’t smile, but you tell him that this the last time you coming out here. And I’m gonna tell him ‘If your momma doesn’t come out here to see about you, I’m not gonna ever let you back in school.’” I said, “Now you and I together?” She said, “Yeah.” So she came out, sat in the office I said “Now you know what we talked about?” She said “Yeah.” Imma stick to my guns, and you gonna stick to your guns in front of him. So she said, “Well Mr.Rawls, I’m tired of getting off my job and being late to my job because of this boy and I’m not gonna come out here. This is gonna be my last time coming out here.” I said “Well, madam, the only thing that I can say, if you don’t come out here and bring him, I’m not gonna let him in. He just gonna get out in the world, or stay home, whatever he wants to do.” She said, “Well this is my last time coming.” I said, “Well. I hope you’ll wake up.” I said, “Because if you don’t come, he is not coming either” [Hand Clap]. No more problems. But see, the mother knew me; I knew her and we worked together. Another situation, no I don’t want to put this one tape I’m not gonna say that one.

	F:	Yeah that’s fine.



	R:	But cooperated with the parents. If the parents know that you mean well, and you are going to try to help the students, their children and help them and the things will work out better. But, we have to have the cooperation of the parents. And I must say, that’s one thing that we try to do at Lincoln, get the cooperation of the parent. And in a number of instances, we got that cooperation nicely and we would go to the nth degree in helping the children. I remember in one instance a







boy trying to orate and the boy didn’t have what it took to orate. His pronunciation was terrible, his choice of words were ridiculous, his diction in general was just poor. And he went to a lady, he was the boy was gonna orate through the agricultural department where the Four H’s meet once a year they have orations and all that. So the teacher told him to see if this specific teacher would help him. So, the teacher was good at was she was doing, but she didn’t know anything about orating. So she told the boy, “I’ll give you the little help that I know,” she said, “But why don’t you check with Mr.Rawls. Mr.Rawls will perhaps be able to help you.” So, he came and asked me about it and I was teaching him.” I said, “Yes.” I said, “I’ll work with you.” I said, “But you got to do what I tell you to do.” and I said, “And I don’t want you to come to me without your advisor being with you so your advisor will know everything in detail what I’m talking about.” So, they met at my house and I had a recording machine and I said, “Now, I want you to hear what I hear.” and I said, “When I do this you start your orating.” Turn it on, I started laughing and I turned it off. I said, “You saw me laughing didn’t you?” He said, “Yeah.” I said, “Did you hear what I heard?” He said, “Yes.” I said, “Well, don’t you think that was worth laughing about?” And he smiled and said, “I guess you’re right.” His advisor said, “I didn’t know you sounded so badly.” “Let’s keep all of that right here in my house and Ima play it again.” and I said, “Now, I’m gonna do this and you’re gonna pick up on that.” And that kind of thing helped that boy to learn how to orate but he couldn’t win any because he waited too late. See, to orate you got to start and hear yourself, let other people hear yourself and then change and that kind of thing. But I told him, I said, “But now you’ll







know if you go to college, what you got to do—” and I talked with him about the articles that control your speech. The tongue, the lips, the teeth, the roof of the mouth and the soft palette. I said, “Now if you’re going to learn how to orate, you got to know certain words you can’t say without the lips. Certain words, the teeth and lips got to come together.” And I gave him those ideas of communicating and then I won him over. But see, the teachers took time to work with you but now, God, nobody got anytime to work with anybody. If you don’t have it when you get there, you won’t get it. And that’s one reason why the Alumni Association at Lincoln is working now to try to get some of that restored and I hope it’s not too late because it’s badly needed; terribly, badly needed.

	F:	My mom always talks about it. When she comes to the school, it’s just the parents don’t cooperate with teachers and the teachers don’t cooperate with the parents. Most of the time the parents when they come to the school, they’re trying to be a friend to the child and they’re taking up for the child saying. My mom said she was at the office one time at my school and one of the parents came up to the school and said, “You’re giving my child too much work.”

	R:	Yeah!



	F:	And I was like “Wow.” Now I know my mom told all of my teachers they could do whatever because I had one teacher, she did do whatever because I had a mouth so she had to fix that really quickly. But I knew, that because she knew my mom, as soon as she said, “I’m about to call Nieca—” that’s my mom’s name— I shut up.







	R:	That’s right. You know I’ve done that. I said, “Now do you want me to call Lucille?” “Don’t call Lucille. Don’t tell her nothing.” I said, “Well you better do so and so and so then.” Yeah and seeing I knew exactly what parents who I had full cooperation with, and what parents I had part-cooperation with. I sent one girl home. The girl had asthma. She was an asthmatic I should say. She was the only student that this particular teacher had ever had who when she needed to catch her breath—for fresh air or whatnot—to come up and get the hall pass.

Don’t have to ask, get the hall pass and go out and get fresh air. And so she took advantage of that. She went up and got the hall pass and went out to get her fresh air—an asthmatic—and she just went all up and down the halls, up and down the halls. So, and the thing of it too was she had fallen out, but the teachers knew she had asthma, they should look out for her. So, “You better let your momma bring you back,” said, “knowing the momma the way we do, we better let her bring you back.” Oh and her momma came in with quite an attitude. Oh she had one! So, I told the teacher he said, “I’m Mr. Jones”, his name was Jones too. “Suppose you bring you up to date.” So when he told her that this girl was the only student that he ever taught—he had been teaching ten or twelve years, full schedules, five classes a day—who could come up and get the hall pass and go out and get fresh air because she was an asthmatic and she running all up and down the hall, the momma said, “I didn’t know it was like that.” He said, “Well, how did you know it was?” “She told me that she was just walking in the hall and you sent her home.” So I said, “Now, you know she wasn’t just walking in the hall.” I said, “Who we trying to protect?” “Well you were trying to







protect her.” I said, “Well, you know now what it was.” And see we had some parents who cared and we had some who didn’t care either. But a lot of them who didn’t care, the children were trying to do fairly well you know? Or they had somebody with whom they could talk. I taught summer school one summer over at Lincoln and this football player was in the class. He had to pass that class to play football. So the boy wouldn’t come to school. So I said, “He missed Monday, he missed Tuesday, he missed Wednesday.” So I call home and she was one who always thought the teachers were picking on her boy or he was a good football player and teachers were jealous of him because he gonna get him a scholarship to go to college. So I called before she left to go to work and I told her who I was. She said, “Oh how you doing?” I said, “I’m doing alright but I’m calling to find out how ‘bum bum’ [Hand Clap] is doing.” And I said, “He hasn’t been to school all this week, so I just said he was sick and I wanna know how he’s doing so I can come by and bring some work or something for him to try to catch up.” She said, “Boy come here!” Now, I’m on the telephone. “This Mr.Rawls he said you haven’t been coming to school and when I leave home you had your breakfast and you supposed to be on your way to school, you haven’t been going to school?” “No ma’am.” So she said, “Okay Mr.Rawls, he’ll be there today and you let me know any day that he is late.” No problems. But now they don’t come to school. Well I’m glad they don’t come to school because it’s such a nuisance while they’re here. So I can have more time to devote to some of the others. But the interest is not there and a lot of the times—I have had a student, was not a good student at all academically but every day when he would walk in that







classroom he would say, “Good morning Mr. Rawls how you doing?” I mean that would stand out. It’s not “Good morning Mr.Rawls I’m fine.” But “Mr.Rawls, good morning. How you doing?” I got to respond. I get that at the end of the day at the end of the period, he said, “Well Mr.Rawls I’ll see you tomorrow.” Or “Goodbye.” Or “You have a nice weekend.” Or “You enjoy homecoming,” or something and I knew the boy had difficulty learning. I did what I could to help him but that wasn’t much because he didn’t have very much upstairs in which to help himself learn. And I don’t think he ever failed a class, but he graduated. Never gave a problem. His mother was fine, his sister was fine, she had difficulties too and it wasn’t, “Well, tomorrow we going to be studying Mesopotamia.” And “Mesopotamia is where?” And “What we’re going to be thinking about, Mesopotamia. Read what the book says about Mesopotamia and that’s what we gonna study tomorrow.” He can’t read Mesopotamia but he had sense enough to sit up in the classroom and listen to what was going on. He may learn how to spell it. In schooling it’s not all academics. Schooling is growing up socializing, cooperating, working together and helping people. But see now, merit pay based on what they learn. They don’t learn that much so if I don’t have all of these nice bright children in here, I don’t get merit pay and that’s disgraceful. So I think that’s what is missing now in a lot of classrooms. See now when you were coming up, you’re parents realized that if you’re going to go to Howard or UF or Santa Fe, this is what you need. Let’s go to the library, learn how to look up some up some information because when you go to Howard, they’re not gonna tell you to go to the library. UF not gonna tell







you to go to the library. You gonna learn where the library is and try to work with the librarian to get you the proper books and that’s what’s missing.

F:  Do you feel like so much of it is missing because of integration because it not that sense of community in—

R:  Well as a result of integration, there is a lack of the problem of understanding and I’m not thinking solely in terms of teacher understanding a child only, but the child understanding the teacher and the parents understanding the total situation. See, my second boy—very very bright, brilliant—he’s an attorney now out in Texas.

But he was in second grade at a school here and they had him going down to special education for an hour or two hours or something like that for him to learn how to write his name: second grade. I was buzzed that he didn’t need to go down there to spend his education, two hours a day to learn how to write his name. I said, “No he doesn’t.” I said, “Because he learned how to write his name in kindergarten.” So when he came home, his mother and I sat him down wondering what was his schedule. Oh and he gave us a beautiful schedule. “Oh you stay in the room all the time?” “Well a group of us go down to Ms. So and so and so and we just enjoy down there. That was really good down there.” Who’s room, where is that?” “Well it’s at school.” Said, “Well what do you do down there?” “Well a lot of children don’t know how to write their name and when we write our name five times then we can go out and play.” I said, “You go out and play when you write your name five times?” “Oh yeah yeah yeah I write my name.” This teacher, he told the teacher that he didn’t know how to write his name so his regular teacher sent him down there to Ms. So and so and so and







Ms. So and so and so would teach him how to write his name and he told us he pretended he can’t write his name and then boy once he writes his name and she says, “Okay you can go out and play now.” I said, “Okay I’ll be out there tomorrow.” Then the teacher said, “No, he can’t write it.” “Yes ma’am, he writes his name.” I said, “I hate to contradict you, but he learned how to write his name in kindergarten.” And I called him in, “Write your name nicely.” I said, “If he ever—” and right in front of him—“If he ever tells you something he can’t do, you tell him to go to the office, send a note to the office with him to call me.” And I said, “I want you to tell me just what you can’t do and between the time you tell me you can’t do and I get out there, you better have it done.” That’s the last of that. See a lot of times—well no one—if you gonna send somebody to learn how to write their name, you need to do a little investigating. Now second grade, can’t write your name? I told him, “By the time I get out here, between the time you called me.” I said, “That’s gonna take about five minutes, you better know what that is.” See, he is one; he would only do the very very minimum.

	F:	Yeah, he sound like my sister.



	R:	When he was thinking about going to A&T majoring in Business I said, “Well what area of Business you wanna major in?” “The kind where you go to all of the meetings.” I said, “The area of business where all you do is go to the meetings?” I said, “There’s no curriculum going to prepare you to go to all the meetings.” I said, “The areas of Business could be like area of transportation, area of Finance, area of Marketing, area of Accounting, Public Finance. Well you have to choose one.” Well all he wanted to do was to get him a degree and get him a job







and there’s going to be a seminar over in Spain and gonna send him to the seminar in Spain where they go to all the meetings. He used to call where he went to law school out in Texas and called one o’clock in the morning and we said, “Oh oh, what’s the matter with him now.” Then he’ll ask some question and we say, “Well, what you go to do is you go to the library and look that up.” “Where do you think I would look?” I said, “There’s a reference area, the reference area will help you look that up.” I said, “Get you some textbooks and look in the index then go in the library in that particular area and look it up.” See he was trying to get something for nothing. “And well, don’t you know about that actually?” “Yeah I know something about that.” I said, “But I can’t tell you all about that on the telephone. Go to the library.” Well the least way out, he had always tried to practice that. That’s the way it is now.

	F:	Do you—



	R:	And I’ll tell you another thing with my children. My daughter, and oldest boy especially, they would tell me, “Daddy I’ve got to do so and so and I need your help.” I said, “Okay.” Say write a theme paper, it’s a good example. Boy came home one day, “Daddy I got to write a paper and I need your help.” I said, “Okay,” I said, “What’s in got to write on?” Well the teacher gave a series of several examples, of several topics, titles. “Okay what if I write it on this?” And I wrote a sign saying, “The Westward Movement.” I said, “Now that would be an interesting one: Westward Movement.” I said, “You can write on that in stages and the sort.” I was telling him the Westward Movement. I said, “That goes back to when people came over and performed to live in the colonies: Virginia and







Carolinas and whatnot. They were up and down the shore, Atlantic Coast. And the Westward Movement moved in the westward direction.” I said, “They had to cross the Blue Ridge Mountains, Alleghany Mountains, and then when they crossed those there’s Ohio River, Kentucky River, Mississippi River all that was the Westward Movement.” So, that captured their attention. So I told them what he needed to do but I’m not gonna write it for him. “I’ll give you files.” And it really captures his attention and so he wrote it and he said, “Daddy, teacher said this is a real good one and they want me to discuss it in the class.” I told him I said, “Well, that’s real good. You get your map of the United States.” I said, “Get you a pointer or a yard stick and Westward Movement, you let them know the Westward movement was moving from the Atlantic Coast on into land, on into the West, crossing the mountains, then crossing bodies of water.” I said, “Now, I don’t want you to be looking at your notes and reading a whole lot I want you to point it out to them. Point it out to them.” That was good and then the teacher told him he wanted him to expand on that and so he expanded on it and went to— let’s see that was probably tenth grade or eleventh grade. Anyway, he came home. The next year Daren got to write another paper, I said, “Yeah what you going to write on?” “The Westward Movement” [Laughter]. I said, “Well you know the basics of it. Go ahead and write it.” Must have been tenth grade and eleventh grade. Came home the next year and he had to write another paper. I said, “What you gonna write on?” “The Westward Movement” [Laughter].

	F:	He really liked it.



	R:	Well at least that inspired him.







	F:	Um-hm inspiration.



	R:	And a little bit and then we helped him to understand the Westward Movement.



Now, the Westward Movement what is that? What significance is that but he learned the significance of the Westward Movement. Why the Westward Movement? What happened in the Westward Movement? How long did it take for them to get across the mountains? What did they do? What did they see that they had no idea was there? I don’t think you get much of that now. Not much of that now. And two, how many parents can help? “Okay, we’re going to the encyclopedia the Westward Movement. You have copy copy and copy.” And what they’re copying makes no sense. No sense because it’s not together. One thing does not lead into the next thing and we have a lot of parents especially now when I was teaching, would tell their children, “I just went to sixth grade and I didn’t get all that education. And look now I own my own house.” Well, it’s something other than owning your own house. You got your family and raise your family in all of that so they could do more than just own their own house. They could own their own house and a summer house you know? And we just don’t have that kind of thing so it’s really not all the schools fault; it’s a lot of home fault as well.

	F:	Yeah well. I have a couple more questions. One of the things I learned attending the University of Florida I felt like I lost out on a lot of things that I would get at a Historically Black College/University which is why intend to go to Howard Law School, but do you feel like there’ a difference, a big difference in going to a







Predominantly White Institution as opposed to a Historically Black College or University?

	R:	Well, the way I see it is going to a Black school you have somewhat of the same culture. When you go into a White school, you have that culture but you have another culture too. And you got to live in both of those cultures and you got to try to take advantage of each one. Now, going to a Black school you’re going to feel that they’re giving you the right information but going to a White school, sometimes you’ll wonder whether you’re getting the whole—

	F:	The whole story.



	R:	Or a piece, a little bit so that somebody else can get the rest of what you don’t get. Now, I’ve been in both of those situations going to a Black school having taught in a Black college and attending a White school and also at the same time, teaching in a White school. And I think that there is a difference. Now, in a Black school I have had teachers who I thought was really out of this world at being good. During integration some of them put the Black school down and went to the White school and they were severely criticized and they didn’t want them anymore and that is one thing about money. They don’t want to pay you like they pay some of the others and they want to say that you are inferior but when it boils down from the standpoint of learning there’s a difference there. Now another difference, I think—and this is going on the basis of this merit pay type of thing too—achievement is hard to get measured. Now, instead of teaching to the test or instead of teaching from the standpoint of academics, I’m teaching this child and this child. This one is making ten points higher on every test than this one is







but instead of teaching achievement, why not measure for advancement? Give a test to this one, give the same test to this one. It could be that the difference which is being achieved is here from here to here. The difference in what achieves from this one is from here to here but achievement is greater if here to here. So then why give me extra or say, “I’m a better teacher because this one didn’t achieve enough to beat the achievement here because here I tested up here in the beginning. Here I tested down here but I have achieved here and my achievement in this one was there so, was I a better teacher for this one than for that one?” “Efforts show I was a better teacher for this one in here,” and I think that’s what is a big difference too and that’s I what don’t like about merit pay. I think merit pay is one of the most disgraceful things in the area of education. Say I taught my boy how to write in kindergarten and I taught him cursive or I used the D’Nealian, no cursive. I used the D’Nealian way of teaching that should join all letters together and with something like a monkey tail on the end and then add those monkey tails to the next one and my son did that. Okay, only here that was not done. I didn’t teach him how to write anything in kindergarten. I taught him how to, the teacher taught him how to write his name in second grade [Telephone Rings]. That’s your phone or my phone?

	F:	That’s yours.



	R:	Oh, excuse me.



	F:	That’s fine.



	R:	I don’t know if I’m making myself clear there or not. F:	Yes you are.







	R:	I forgot when it rings two times that’s the fax machine. I forgot that. F:	Oh okay.

	R:	So when you start talking about merit pay and their teachers whose children make the higher score, they made the higher score on their own, maybe instead of the teacher’s help. Those who made the lower score they might have advanced at a higher pace than what they were and much higher than those who advance who were already in the high category because see now I made sure, at least I wanted to make sure, that my children were not falling in the lowest category but I helped them before they went to school and I had them discussing what is in News Week Magazine instead of Ebony Magazine and News Week is going to be on the test. Ebony is not going to be on the test. So, that’s just bad education or bad education of leadership. I think more and more now, the teachers are beginning to realize that and then too—some teachers will have just nice classes and some teachers will go on to have the worst classes, academically but they’re doing their best holding them down and communicating with those parents, trying to seek help but look like it’s not paying off too well. But those who’re teaching these nice ones, they gonna get merit pay. Okay?

	F:	I have one more question. You talked about like with Lincoln there was the values of having accountability with the parents and the students and the teachers having that relationship as well as you know inspiring and cultivating interest, in an integrated society how do you feel that predominantly Black institutions can continue the values instilled at older schools like Lincoln?

	R:	Now, ask that question again.







	F:	In an integrated society, how do you feel that predominantly Black institutions can continue the values instilled at older schools like Lincoln? Like how can they continue that with education being so different now? Like you can’t hit the child and you can’t—it’s certain things you know teachers are so cautious about.

	R:	What to do? I don’t know and that’s a problem. I think what we need is trying to improve communications and that’s communicating between the home and the school. See it used to be communicating between the home, the church and the school, but it is hard to say, and it’s bad to say, but the church can’t do too much now because the parents don’t want the church to do what the church once could do. I remember right here in Gainesville that one of the church pastors, one church’s pastor, wanted the children to bring their report cards to the church so the church could review their report cards. The parents said, “No!” Well, they didn’t want the church to know about the children so the school said, “We can only give grades to the parents whose names are on the record.” A good example: “Here’s my child, we’re divorced and still are.” On the record, the momma’s name is there, my name is not there, so I can’t go out to the school and ask any questions because I’m not accountable and to give me information about my child is just like giving that information on giving up on top of the Seagle Building and throwing it down on University Avenue. So the only—I can’t say the only—the best way to improve that is by the use of better means of communicating and the only time that I can communicate is after I get off of work, five o’clock. And when I get off of work at five o’clock the traffic is so heavy I can’t get to the school until six o’clock. It’s dark and it’s dangerous for me to go by the







school because nobody’s there or the teacher can’t wait or the principal can’t wait until six o’clock or seven o’clock when I get there. So it’s communication and my wife doesn’t want you as a teacher to have anything to do with me because I’m not on that record. Now, if my name was on that record, you could do something but you don’t want my name on that record because you don’t want to have to carry me to court and the court may give the child to me. So then communication has to have fallen and as communication falls, cooperation is falling and in legal communication as well as illegal communication. Now a good example: I had a teacher to come into the office one day, she was on her way to lunch and she said, “May I close the door?” I said, “Yes.” And I said, “God what on Earth, she gonna start coming the office and not closing the door.” And she opened her pocketbook and said [Pulls something out of his bag], “This is what a child pulled out today in the room and pointed it at me.” It was a gun. I said, “You’re child did that?” “Yes.” She said, “I got this from the child. They’re going to lunch now.” She said, “But it’s a play gun.” I said, “That’s a play gun?” Said, “Yeah, it is a play gun.” She said, “I thought you ought to know this.” I said, “Yes I’m glad you called. Report to my teacher.” I said, “Let me keep that and you go on to lunch and when you go get the children from lunch, bring him by the office.” So, she did what I asked her to do. So he said, “Oh that’s just a play gun.” This fourth grade. “That’s just a play gun.” I said, “But when she pulled this gun and pointed it at me I could see nothing play about that gun.” I said, “She could have had a heart attack and could have fallen out because you’re bringing play guns.” I said, “I’ll return this to your parents if your parents want it or if they want you to come back







to school, your parents can come out here.” Oh and I gave him a letter to carry home. Oh the next day their parents was out there oh she’s coming to get me. “That’s just a play gun and I don’t see why you took that or why she took it and I want it back.” I said, “Well you are entitled to get it back but I assumed it was not a play gun and she assumed it wasn’t a play gun either.” I said, “When the teacher brought that in to me, I thought that was the Real McCoy, and she thought it was too and a member of the class thought it was. So I’m still giving him three days suspension.” I said, “Now you’ll come now, you don’t have to bring him back because you and I have communicated but I’m gonna give you the gun.” So then her next question, “Well, who all gonna know about this?” I said, “Well the superintendent’s office is gonna know about it and this would be a part of his record.” I said, “Now, if stays here the rest of this year and next year, there’s a possibility that this will be pulled from his record. There won’t be anything in his record on it.” So she said, “His daddy won’t know about it?” I said, “Not unless you tell him.” I said, “Is his daddy home?” “No his dad is in Tampa, his daddy wants custody of him.” I said, “Well, whose name is on the record?” I pulled the record, and I said, “The daddy’s name is not on the record so we can’t notify the daddy about it.” “Well that’s alright then.” She was satisfied. She said, “Because if the daddy knew this well the daddy has a better chance of custody.” And she wanted to fight that custody, see that?

	F:	Yeah.







	R:	So it’s really communicating and communication is becoming a problem all over.



All over there’s the problem of communicating and it’s just terrible. Does that help?

	F:	Yes, helps a lot. I just wanted to thank you for your time because all of your information really, really helped me.

	R:	You sure now?



	F:	Yes positive.



	R:	Like as I used to ask the children, “Is it clear?” F:	Yes, very clear.

	R:	Very clear.



	F:	Um-hm because I’m really interested in the changes in education and that’s my end goal about what I wanna do. I really want to make some impacts in education because it has changed so much and this is just the beginning.

	R:	Yeah when I used to teach I’d ask the children I said, “Now is that clear?” “Yes it’s clear.” I said, “Well is it as clear as mud?” And I would tell them, “Water is clear but you can’t see it. Mud is not clear but you can see it.” So hopefully this is not as clear as mud.

	F:	Alright thank you again.



	R:	Okay I enjoyed talking with—





[End of Interview]





		Transcribed by:	Sandra Romero	10/21/2015







Audit-edited by:

Michael T. Barry Jr.

2/1/2017

Final-edited by:

Justin Dunnavant

2/17/2017