AAHP 367; Stafford; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 367 May Stafford

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Ryan Morini on March 24, 2015 2 hours, 33 minutes | 55 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 367

Interviewee: May Stafford Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: March 24, 2015



	M:	This Is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. I am sitting here with May Stafford on March 24, 2015 in her home. I guess this is the living room.

	S:	Yes, this is the living room.



	M:	Thank you for joining me today. S:	You are welcome.

	M:	So could we start with your full name?



	S:	My full name is May Evelyn McCants Stafford. M:	Okay and McCants is spelled—

	S:	McCants is my maiden name. M:	And is that M-C-C-A-N-T-Z? S:	S.

	M:	S. Okay.



	S:	Uh-huh. S.



	M:	Any significance to the Evelyn? Is that a family name? Or was that just—?



	S:	No, it is interesting. It is the middle name that my mother chose when I was born back in 1937. The family that my father worked for, his boss lady, I call it, boss lady, wanted my name to be May Catherine. That would have been after my mom’s name, and she did not want any children, any of her children, named after her. So she selected Evelyn as a middle name for me. My daddy’s boss lady said that if my name was going to be May Evelyn, she requested that it be spelled M- A-Y rather than M-A-E. Like the month of May. And my mom agreed to it, so I am an M-A-Y May Evelyn McCants. That is a capital M-C-capital C-A-N-T-S.





	M:	Could I ask the birthdate? It was September 3, you said? S:	September 3, 1937.

	M:	So were you born in a hospital? Were you born at home with the midwife?



	S:	I was born at home with the midwife. Her name was Lillian Finley. The midwife’s name was Lillian Finley, and I was born in Ocala, Florida over on Madison Street behind the Watchtower. What was called back then it was the Watchtower. It was a publishing place that was in town. It was owned by Mrs. Shaw.

	M:	Okay. So the midwife, was she a Black lady? S:	Yes. Oh yes. She was Black.

	M:	And she was, I am guessing, a midwife for a lot of families?



	S:	For a lot of families. I think she delivered all three of us in the family. Not any of us were born in the hospital. We didn’t go to the hospitals except if you were very seriously ill.

	M:	Was she any relation to you at all? Or she was—? S:	No.

	M:	She was just the midwife.



	S:	She was the midwife that was supposed to be one of the best midwifes during that time.

	M:	Do you know any other stories about her? S:	The midwife?

	M:	Uh-huh.



	S:	Not really, other than in later years we lived on the same street with her, and that was over on Third Street in town, and she was just down the street from us. I





can’t think of anything. Other than she did, as a midwife, she did on occasion where families didn’t want the kids and stuff, she kept the babies and raised them. One kid was in my class, and another one was in my sister’s class when we were growing up. We knew she raised them like her kids, but they were not her children or children she had birthed, but she raised them as a mother.

	M:	Okay. So you grew up in Ocala then? S:	I grew up in Ocala.

	M:	Can I ask your parent’s names by the way? I am sorry.



	S:	My mother’s name, she was a daughter. Her name was Catherine, and that was spelled with a C rather than a K. She used Elizabeth as her middle initial. Dodd and that was D-O-D-D, Dodd McCants. And my father’s name was Orion, O-R-I- O-N Ernest McCants.

	M:	Okay, everybody’s got an E for a middle name.



	S:	Well except my sister. My sister is the oldest. Her name was Lillian Gwendolyn. [Laughter]

	S:	Nowhere like ours. However, my brother’s name, he was a junior. So he has that E in the middle of his. My sister was totally different from us. Yeah. She was Lillian Gwendolyn.

	M:	Were your parents from the area, too? Did they come from this area?



	S:	Yes, they were Marion County people. They came from this area. My mother was originally, I think—well, most of my mother’s people, and I think my mother was born in a little town called Flemington. That is in Marion County going toward





Gainesville. When you get to that Orange Lake exit, going to Gainesville, you make a left there, and you go to a little area of settlement called Flemington.

	M:	So she was up there?



	S:	So that is where my grandmother and mother, you know. Most of them were in that area. And my father was south over in an area called Montague

	M:	Montague.



	S:	Uh-huh. That area is all different. It is nothing like it was back then. I think it was all in the area which now is—let me think. What would you call that area out there now? Montague back then was before you got to Santos.

	M:	Okay. Okay.



	S:	But it was east of them. It was northeast of Santos. That is the best way I know how to describe it.

	M:	So it wouldn’t be on 441. It would be kind of off.



	S:	Oh no. No. No, it was more like—let’s see. Oh what is that street? You knew where the New Old Forest High School is here in Ocala?

	M:	Vaguely.



	S:	It was like going toward Lockee, Marietta. M:	Okay.

	S:	It was more in that area, out that side. Like you are going to Lake Weir, where that high school is out there. Lake Weir. But it was south of that. It was a little area.

	M:	What did people do out there? Do you—?



	S:	Well, it was a settlement back then, where it was just a little settlement.





	M:	Just like farms and things, I guess.



	S:	Yeah, I guess they had their own little farms and stuff. And see then, it was just like south of where my grandfather was the pastor at a church called Mt. Canaan and Rayma. He pastored at Rayma and Mt. Canaan. My grandfather was a minister.

	M:	I have heard of those churches. So what was your grandfather’s name? S:	E.B. McCants. E.B. McCants. He was Ernest Bolden McCants.

	M:	How do you spell Bolden? S:	B-O-L-D-E-N.

	M:	Okay and do you know your grandmother’s name on that side? S:	Her name was Marion. She was Marion Bonner.

	M:	Marin like Marion County? Or Marin like—? S:	I-N.

	M:	Okay.



	S:	She was a Bonner before she married my grandfather.



	M:	I see. Were they both from that Montague area, too? Did they—?



	S:	I think so. I think so. I am not sure. My grandmother on my father’s side died, excuse me, before I was born. My grandfather did live. We used to always go out to my grandfather lake. If my parents wanted to go out on a date, we would go and stay with our grandfather. It was my grandfather that really, years ago, got me interested in the bible and learning about the Holy Land and stuff. One of my dreams was first fulfilled in [19]91. I had my first trip to the Holy Land. I attribute that to my grandfather. He would talk about the Jordan River and Golan Heights





and stuff. And so I always wanted to see those places, and I have been blessed to see them.

	M:	I guess he never got to see them himself.



	S:	Oh no. No. No. He died when, what—I must have been about ten or eleven. I may have been a little older than that but not much older.

	M:	What do you remember about him?



	S:	What I remember about him? He loved music, and as a kid growing up as a girl in the family, we had to take piano. So I had learned to play piano pretty good before he passed. He was a stickler for following the notes.

	M:	Oh, I am just checking on this real quick. S:	Okay.

	M:	Yeah, it is working fine. I am going to move it just a little over here.



	S:	He did not like for me to add anything to the music. He surprised me one day. He came to the house, and I was playing the piano. Contrary to doing what he had said, I had added the boogie in the church song, and I can see his face now. He said, “Baby, God blessed you with a beautiful talent. Don’t mess it up playing things like that. Putting all of those notes into the music. You play what is on the printed page. And that is beautiful. You don’t have to do that.” He said, “It has already been written.” Oh, he gave me a lecture. And my grandfather made me promise. He said, “Promise grandpoppa, you are not going to do that. Add those kind of notes to the music.” He said, “That secular music is not supposed to be in God’s word.” And I said yes to grandpoppa. “I promise. I promise.” It was not five days later that my grandfather took sick and died. Would you believe, to this day,





I cannot play boogie? I cannot play the boogie. And I talked with—in my work, I work with a lot of psychologists and stuff. And they say, “Oh, oh, you will be able to do it.” You just had—I have tried, and I am still not able to add any boogie in a church song that I am trying to play. I can’t do it. One of his favorite songs back then was “I will fly away.” And I was rocking that song. I think that is what you would call it today. Oh, I had it rocking. And man, after he died, I have tried to do it, and I just can’t do it. I don’t know if he that powerful effect on me. I can’t add boogie in any scriptural or Christian music. Any Christian music. I can’t do it.

Yeah. That is one thing that I remember about him. He told me definitely, he said, “Promise me.” And I have always felt, or at least my parents and folk, they said “If you promise a person something that you are going to do, always keep your promise. Your word is all you have. And if your word is no good then you are no good.” They raised us to be good. [Laughter] I have never been able to do it. Not that I need to do it. It is just one of those things that I have never forgotten it.

	M:	I can understand.



	S:	That is the kind of impact he had on me. When I got to the Holy Land, I did one of the things that he talked about. The Jordan was chilly and cold. I can witness to that. I was one of those—I wanted to see and do. And so I experienced the Jordan River, the Golan Heights, and all of those things over in Israel. Over in the Holy Land.

	M:	And the Jordan was that cold?



	S:	It was cold. It was cold. Of course, it didn’t help that I got baptized in February. I was over there in February, but I went in there anyway. But most of the people





that I talked with that gone after, and it was warmer. They said the river was really cold. It is really cold. Uh-huh.

	M:	So your grandfather, he was known as a pastor out there— S:	Oh yeah.

	M:	Did you see conduct a sermon or any other—? S:	Conducting services? Oh yes. Oh yes. I exper—

	M:	Do you remember anything in particular about that? Or his style? Or what he—?



	S:	He was very much into scripture. He went according to the word. He would expound on each verse. If he took a certain passage of scripture, he would expound on it and explain it. I guess a lot of the things that I learned back then I still believe to this day. I learned from my grandfather.

	M:	I am sorry.



	S:	I just learned. We had to learn certain scriptures and things from a child. I learned early to trust in the Lord. That’s just the way I’ve grown up.

	M:	So it seems kind of like the following the letter of things goes back through your father’s family. It is not just your—

	S:	Oh no, it was always. My grandfather believed into it. If you did not do right, there was a higher power than you. You are going to be in the judgment day, you know, if you didn’t treat your man right, fellow man right. Well when you get to the gate with Saint Peter that was going to be it. So I have always known that I, from reading the scriptures and stuff, that I believed that I would be one that I want to go to heaven when I die. So I am not afraid to die, but I try to treat everybody right. As well as I know. My father used to say, “Well, baby because you don’t





treat anybody wrong don’t mean somebody is not going to you wrong.” I used to couldn’t hardly believe or see how that could be, but the way that things are today when I hear of mothers killing their children and things like that, you know that is not right.

	M:	It is true.



	S:	It is so different now.



	M:	Your mother’s family, do you know those grandparents at all?



	S:	Yes, I knew— my mother’s mother lived with us. Her name was Victoria. My mother’s mother was Victoria Mickens. She was a Mickens before she married my mother’s father, Dodd. And my mother’s father’s name was Arthur Dodd.

	M:	And so were they from Flemington, too? Or they moved there?



	S:	No, my mother’s father was from an area southwest of Flemington. I think south.



It was—oh, what do you call that area over there? It’s an area over from Blue Sink. Oh, right now I am kinda throwing a blank. It’ll come to me. Right now I am throwing a blank on that. I did not know many of my grandfather on my mother’s side people. I knew more of my father and my father’s mother’s people. My grandmother and my grandfather’s people. I knew on both sides there were. I knew more of my mother’s mother people than her father’s people.

	M:	It sounds likes you got pretty deep Marion County roots on both sides.



	S:	Oh yes. Yes. Uh-huh. The most I know about my mother’s father’s people, they were all—they were kind of White-looking. Grey eyes, blond hair, and freckles and stuff. And that’s how I ended up with—my mother was very fair skinned it turns. And the older she got, the more freckles and moles and stuff. And the





older that I notice my sister and I, we are getting more moles and stuff. And my grandmother’s mother was an Indian. She was long straight black straight black hair. I have more grey hair now than my grandmother had when she died. She just had just a few little strands of grey hair. And my hair is, you know, just about white.

	M:	Do you anything about the story of the great-grandmother who was an Indian?



Was she Creek? I am guessing.



	S:	I don’t really know that much other than she had that long crooked nose and straight long black hair. She was heavy. She was heavy-set, and my grandmother was heavy-set. And short with long straight black hair.

	M:	Did your grandmother know any herbal remedies and things like that? Had she learned any of that from her mother?

	S:	Oh, they all used all kinds of things. And the one that my grandmother used one time was hog hoof tea.

	M:	I have heard of that.



	S:	Oh! [Laughter] Oh, that was terrible. If we had a cold, she had—one of her brothers raised hogs up there in Flemington. And he would save some of the hooves for us. Oh, that was terrible!

	M:	If only we had video for your face right now, because that, it—. [Laughter]



	S:	Oh jeez. You wouldn’t want to taste. If we had a cold and a cough, it would knock it right out. I mean it would knock you out. Oh gosh, that was terrible stuff. I don’t recall taking it too many times. Oh, it was bad. That was about the only thing that I could recall that she did with us. But my grandmother could cook anything. She





was an excellent cook. And she taught me how to cook a lot of things, different things. But it was interesting that my grandmother didn’t use terms like a spoon. She said, “Just put a pinch, or just a smidgen, or just a dash.” And I am saying, “Momma Vic, what is a smidgen? What is a dash?” After showing me a few times, you had to get the picture, because you couldn’t mess up food. You had to do it correctly. You couldn’t waste. I heard, “waste not, have not, waste not,” all my life growing up. If you have it, don’t waste it, because if you waste it then you can’t have some.

	M:	It was a different day. Today if you screw up, you can go to McDonalds, I guess, or something. But I guess back then, it was—

	S:	Oh yeah. Oh yes. We didn’t waste. My grandmomma knew how to do everything.



I said, my grandmother could boil water, and it taste good. I just love my grandmother. She could just really cook. Oh goodness, she could cook. I can recall, say if we had—I really didn’t and still don’t care that much for potatoes. A lot of people like mashed potatoes and stuff. So if it was an evening supper that we had mashed potatoes, I made sure that I left some of my potatoes so the next morning my grandmother would make potato pancakes. Oh, that was so good.

She could make potato pancakes. I never did learn how to make those, because by the time I really grew up to really learn how to do some things, she was not always with us. But she could make potato pancakes, and we would have them with cane syrup that her brother would have made from up in the country. They would have the cane mill and grind the syrup and cook it. Yeah. And that would be good. Oh, that was so good.





	M:	So the potato pancake, were they sweet? Or were they just kind of—



	S:	No, no, they were like a pancake. They were like a regular pancake, but you knew it was not from flour. It was potatoes. I don’t know how she did it, but she knew how to stretch anything if anything was left over. Like if they had cooked too much rice or something, then the next thing we know, we always had a lot of milk, because my daddy’s boss had a quart of milk deliver to us daily. Because it was three of us and three kids, so we got three quarts of milk a day. The truck delivered us milk, and back then, milk was not homogenized. It was pasteurized. So they would skim the cream off of the top, and my grandmother showed us how to take that cream and shake it. And we would all had a little jar, and we would have to shake it and turn it until the little flakes of butter come up. Then we had fresh butter, and my mother loved buttermilk, so then she had buttermilk.

And we had buttermilk pancakes, buttermilk biscuits, buttermilk when it was just regular milk, Pollock with rice. And then we had rice pudding, put a few raisins in it sometimes. Whatever she had. Whatever fruit was available, it went in there. So we always ate very healthy. We never had a lot of fried foods. I see everything, like today, is kinda fried. We didn’t have fried food. They cooked everything. It was baked in the oven or boiled on the stove, that kind of thing.

	M:	So where was this food coming from? Did you get it from the store? Or did you have a garden? Or was it a mix of things?

	S:	It was a mix of things. Like I said, my grandmother’s brother was still living in Flemington, and he had like a farm. And we would always go there when there was corn. We had corn, fresh corn. Peas, beans. We had fresh food. And if he





killed a hog or something, back then they would call it they would give us a piece of meat. And from that momma would go to the grocery store and buy meat and some vegetables if we didn’t have. And we had one of my father’s uncles that lived in town. He always had a garden. And so, we could always go there and get cabbage or onions. We always had fresh onions, cabbage, greens. Our parents had people that had farms and stuff. Plus, my father was a hunter and a fisherman. So early I learned how to treat a squirrel. You could not shoot a squirrel or a bird and put shots in the parts of their body. You had to go straight for the head. And we learned how to fish. You had to know how to bait your hook. That is the kind of growing up I had.

	M:	What kinds of things did he hunt? Was he getting deer and things?



	S:	Birds. Birds. Mostly birds, squirrels, rabbits. My mom liked rabbits. So of course, he got them. He had rabbits. We had rabbits, squirrels, and birds.

	M:	Like duck kind of birds? Or more like birds in trees like doves?



	S:	No, like quails and doves. And squirrels were also in the tree. We had to know the difference when they are flying in the air, you learned what my father called stink birds from a good bird to shoot. And then doves were not always in season. Whenever the season was. You couldn’t shoot a dove out of season. You had to shoot them when they were in season. And whatever was in season. You didn’t just go out and kill a squirrel anytime. And you didn’t go out and kill a rabbit anytime. So whatever the time was for that particular animal or bird or fish. If the fish are going on the bed, then you know they were fanning, and they would





probably full of roe and eggs and stuff. We had to go according to what the season was.

	M:	That makes sense. I guess the squirrels would have parasites and things like that.

	S:	Right. Right. Right. So if it was during the time that squirrels or a rabbit had rabies and that type of stuff, you didn’t shoot them. You didn’t kill them during that time. Or if they were with babies and stuff. You just didn’t do it.

	M:	So how did they prepare the squirrels and the rabbits? Would they roast them up usually?

	S:	Oh, you had to skin them. M:	Yeah.

	S:	Yeah, you learned how to cut behind the neck. You pull the hide and stuff off of them, and then you gut them. I had to learn how to clean all of that stuff. They came in the house. You would learn how to do it. Chittlins, you had to wash them. Oh man, I have done all of that.

	M:	I bet.



	S:	Yeah.



	M:	How many squirrels did it take to feed the family? Like how many would you try to get if you were going to get for a meal or something? Just if you remember.

	S:	Well, let’s see. Most times it was at least five of us in family. We would probably have at least three squirrels or more.

	M:	Just roasted up? S:	Uh-huh.





	M:	Did you make stew or anything?



	S:	Yeah, they would be roasted or less. The later years, when I started doing it on my own, heh! I would barbecue them. Yeah.

	M:	That sounds good.



	S:	Oh yeah. It is good, because squirrel is very lean meat. It is a lean meat. One of the doctors at work used to tease me about that. He said, “Oh, Stafford. You mean you eat rodents?” I said, “Just as sure as your bone.” And he would laugh. So one day I was at work, and I had some squirrel. And I had barbecued that squirrel. And I had some brown rice, and what else did I have? I think I had some green beans. Oh, I had a good meal. And I had put it in the microwave to heat it up, and Dr. Seeger came in there. And he could smell that food cooking. And he says, “Oh, that smells good.” I said, “No, don’t come bother me. I am eating rodent.” [Laughter] “I am eating rodents.” He says, “Oh, just let me have a leg.” Well, you know, it is not much but a leg on a squirrel. He reached his hand in my plate and took one of those legs. Oh, you don’t know. I wanted to hit him so bad. You just don’t know. And he ate it and came back, “Oh, that it is good.” Came back to reach his hand in there again. But when he did, [slap]. I blocked him. [Laughter] Oh, I had to block that plate! From then on he always wanted to know, hey Staff, when are you going to get more squirrel? I said, “No, that is rodent.” I wouldn’t ever take any more of that, because I was honest with him. I did not want to share. I did not want to share my squirrel, because my brother had get some, caught some for me. It is hard to get them anymore. It is really hard.





	M:	Yeah, you don’t want to get them in town obviously. I guess you have to go out. I mean you could—

	S:	When I first moved here, it was not anything much behind. I shot a few and got a few. I had a little .22 rifle and some hollow point bullets. I got me a few squirrels. I knew after a point, I knew it was illegal, and I didn’t want to get caught.

	M:	Understandable.



	S:	It is hard to get anybody to get you squirrels and stuff now. I bet you it has been over ten years since I have had some squirrel. Now my mom didn’t care anything about a lot of people that ate coon and possums and stuff like that. My dad didn’t like it so my dad didn’t bring it in the house.

	M:	So you never had any of that stuff? S:	Hm.

	M:	Okay.



	S:	I can’t say that I had any of that. A few times we would end up with some deer.



When I was married to Stafford, I was up in Maryland then. I had a lot of pheasant and bear and all that kind of stuff. All kinds of stuff up there. We didn’t have that when I was growing up. I have eaten most all of that. Alligator and rattlesnake and all of that. I have eaten some of all of it. But I didn’t grow up on it like I did with birds and fish, freshwater fish, and squirrels, rabbit.

	M:	What kind of fish? S:	Bream.

	M:	Bream, oh yeah.



	S:	Uh-huh. Bream and speckled perch. Catfish.





	M:	Oh yeah.



	S:	Uh-huh. Yeah.



	M:	Did you go to the rivers around here? S:	Oh yeah.

	M:	Where did you go? S:	Rivers and lakes.

	M:	How far did you have to go usually?



	S:	Down to Westdale, Lake Weir. Uh-huh. To the river. Ocklawaha River. M:	What about hunting? How much of a trip was it to go hunting?

	S:	Just like down to Santos, Belleview. Just right around out in the area. Outskirts like Flemington and yeah. All of these areas all the way around. We knew people like out in Jerusalem, Montague. We knew people all around out there. Had family and friends that would let us hunt on their land.

	M:	That is one thing that people tell me is different— S:	Blichton. That it is the name of the—

	M:	Blit—oh.



	S:	Blichton.



	M:	Yeah, I have heard of Blichton. There is so much. It has been built up so much. There is so many people now. It used to be woods, dirt roads, and stuff all over here. Although, I guess you lived on a paved road, because you lived in town, right?

	S:	Yes. Pine Street was paved up. When we lived on Tide Street, it was paved on one side. One side of Pine and Fort King was paved, but the other part going





toward the railroad track wasn’t paved. So part of it was paved and part of it wasn’t. When we moved on Third Street, it was paved. It was just paved to Twenty-fourth, what is now Martin Luther King Boulevard. But all the streets in between that were not paved. Say like on Third Street, when you did go back down to the next block, the roads and streets going north and south were not paved. Going east and west was paved. Can you understand that? [Laughter] Huh?

	M:	Trying. So it was the east-west that were paved. That is interesting. Was there a racial disparity in some of that? I know in Gainesville a lot of the Black neighborhoods did not have paved roads. The White neighborhoods did. Did that hold true in Ocala?

	S:	Uh-huh.



	M:	Yeah. Same thing? S:	Same thing.

	M:	Is that a part of why the pavement kind of ended on, not Pine Street, King Street?



Sorry, I am trying to keep the streets.



	S:	Yeah, it ended back when we were living on Pine— M:	West Pine.

	S:	Huh?



	M:	Yes, sorry.



	S:	Pine Street was paved during the time that I was living there. It was paved to Hammock, to Gary’s Hammock. And that is where it ended on the left side of the





White neighborhood. The White neighborhood was from Fort King back to Third. To Third Street. Okay?

	M:	Okay.



	S:	And that side of the Pine was paved to the Hammock. Then when they decided to put the highway through, which is 441 to intersect, when they decided to put the highway on through, they took out the Hammock. That is when the Hammock moved. They paved it through then to 200. Do you know where 200 is?

	M:	Yeah. I know.



	S:	The overpass.



	M:	Yup. Yeah.



	S:	Going toward I-75, 200. Okay. Well see, 40 was Broadway back then, and it was paved all the way through. And that is going east and west. So it was paved all the way through. 40 was paved all the way through. 200 was paved all the way through, because 40 went all the way to Dunnellon and connected to 19. And Broadway, or Broadway was 40, and it went all the way to Dunnellon. And 200 went all the way to another side of that, of 19. Down on the other side. Like when we were going to Tampa or someplace like that, we knew which road we weren’t supposed to go like that.

	M:	Interesting. Did you travel much to places like Tampa? S:	Uh-huh.

	M:	What for?



	S:	Well, we had relatives. My mother had a lot of serious problems with her eyes back then. And there was a doctor that we had to go to Tampa for her





treatments. And my grandmother’s sister lived in Sarasota, and so she would go there part of the time like when we were out of school. Most times my mom didn’t work. My mom was mostly a housewife for most of the path. But anyway, she would go down and stay with her sister for a while. Then when she would come back, we would go down and get her and stuff. And my daddy’s sister lived in Jacksonville. So we would go to Jacksonville. My dad would always carry us some place during the summer. We would go to some place that he had driven. He used to drive different people. As I say, he chauffeured people to different places. We would get an opportunity to go to see some of those places. Most of my grandmother’s people that were down in Sarasota back during those days, they were working for people like Ringling Brothers. You have heard of the Ringling Brothers Circus?

	M:	Uh-huh.



	S:	Well, they worked for people like that. So we got a chance to see a lot of the things first-hand.

	M:	Oh, that is behind-the— S:	Behind-the-scenes.

	M:	Backstage.



S: Yeah, Behind-the— M:   What was that like?

S:  It was interesting. It was really nice. They lived really—those mansions and stuff. They were really, really nice. You would see gold faucet fixtures and all that kind of stuff. Their kitchens were really neat. We saw a lot of different—it was like





night and day. You would see the way they lived, and I hope people learn how to do those things. How to care for and serve. Do service. And as a matter of fact, I was blessed to see my great-grandfather on my mother’s side up at Flemington. He had been a slave. He was one of the slaves back then. Because of his small stature and his ability to learn, he was a houseboy. So he was like a messenger for his master. And he would tell us about that.

	M:	Oh really?



S:  How he would have to go, and some places that he could ride up in the carriage, but some places he couldn’t. He had to go by horseback and that type of thing. It was kind of interesting.

M:  It sounds like it. So did you give your great-grandfather’s name? What was his name?

S:   He was a Mickens.



	M:	Mickens. Okay. Was he enslaved in Florida? S:	As far as I understood it, he was in Florida. M:	Okay, he never really said where?

	S:	Unh-uh. He just foot, but he was. He was. Where his house sits right there, if you are ever in Flemington, where the old school is and down that hill, the little road to the church, he set right there like on the corner.

	M:	Is the house still there?



	S:	I didn’t see it the last time I was up there. They have grown up and everything has changed so. And I have not been up there. I keep saying I am going to take another ride up through there one of these days to see. I don’t recall the house





being there, but the pecan tree was still there. The pecan tree was still there. He had pecan trees all around his house. I couldn’t understand it, but back then, they did not have the kitchen attached to the house. That was the first time I had seen that, and he explained. He said, back during the day, they didn’t have fire departments and stuff like they have now, and if a fire took place in the kitchen, it wouldn’t burn the whole house down. That was the way his house was built. Like how when I was in DC last year in Mount Vernon, have you ever been up there and seen like where they were? How the houses and stuff were built back then?

	M:	I don’t think I have been in that part of DC. S:	It is in the area for Mount Vernon.

	M:	Oh okay.



	S:	You have never been. Okay, yeah. I went up last year for Cherry Blossom Festival during that time. It had been years since I lived up there that I did that. We used to go to the boat basin when I was living in Maryland. Would go to DC and go to the boat basin and spread the blanket and have picnics and watch the planes come in over the Potomac. It was leisure. It was nice back then.

	M:	It sounds like it.



	S:	But it is so different now. It is so different. They kept that part of the history at Mount Vernon. You can see how it was, and that is how my grandfather’s house was back them. Right up to Flemington.

	M:	Did he build that house? Do you know?



	S:	I would think he did. I don’t know. You know, I was little then. I didn’t really think to ask questions about that. But right across the street was our cousin, Lily and





Eugene, and she was a quilter. And she had phones that would raise to the ceiling. And everybody would sit around and quilt and stuff. They still had things back then, when I was growing up, that were really interesting. That they were still doing. Yeah.

	M:	Sounds that way. Well so, if we can get back to your father, what did he do? How did he make a living, because it sounds like he had a few jobs?

	S:	He did. He had a lot of jobs, besides being a daddy. [Laughter]



	S:	I guess you could say he was basically a mechanic, because one of his main jobs was working at the Marion Motors Garage. Marion Motors Garage. He was a mechanic. When he left that job, he would go to the horns. That’s the inner.

And he did lawn work. He did house work. He served parties for them, whenever they had to, because I had to iron a lot of those shirts, those jackets. Those white servant jackets that they wore to serve parties. I can recall having to iron those things, and they had to be so stiff. He would serve parties for them. He would chauffer them wherever they needed to go whenever they had to go. And then later years, he would also clean offices. He would clean and take care of, do mechanic work on those land movers or earth movers for the Marion construction place. Those big old machines you see on the road. He would do maintenance and stuff on those things.

	M:	A lot of stuff.



	S:	He did a lot of things. He did a lot of things. Just to say what his occupation was—he was a Hunter and Fisher during the Civil Rights thing for Frank





Pinkston. They did shifts out there. When it was his time to serve, I understand he was right out there.

	M:	Do you know much about how, because I guess that would be a bit of a contrast?



It sounds like he was very much, although some of this I guess we talked about off the recording, very much about rules and following rules and following the law if that is the law. Did he ever talk to you about civil rights or about equality or anything like that? Did you have any idea he would get involved with something like that?

	S:	No. As a matter of fact, I was surprised. I was in Maryland when he was doing that. His concern was that nobody hurt Frank. That is the only concern. If anybody when there to, say, set the house on fire or do something like that, he was going to be willing to stop them. Because he wanted Frank to live. As far as going and seeking somebody to do anything, he was not into that. And that is what the Hunting and Fishing Group was all about, the way I understood it. They were there to protect Frank and his family. That was it. If anything moved that wasn’t supposed to be moving, they had it covered. I tell you. When I was younger, I guess you could say that I wasn’t the brightest person on the beach, because I had this way that I thought that I could always sneak past my father and do something. During that time, I was working at the state hospital in Macclenny. I had a little triumph. I decided to come home one night, and I was going to slip in the house. When they woke up the next morning, I was going to be in there in the bed. So when I got home, coming around I had up enough speed that I could turn the motor off and just roll on into the yard. And I rolled into





the yard, and I had my key to the house, and I got out the car. You know how you hold the handle back, so you just close it and it don’t make a sound. I did all of that perfectly, but the front door at our house over there on Third Street, and it had that sound to this day, it is a certain way, I don’t care how you close that door, it would make a little clunking sound. It made just a clunk. And so just happened my father was awake that night, and so started calling the role. He said, “Kitty, did you hear that?” He called my mother Kitty. He said, “Kitty, did you hear that though?” She said, “No, Orion. I didn’t hear anything.” And so he said, “Momma.” He called my grandmother momma. He said, “Is that you out there in the living room?” And she said, “No, Orion. I am right here in the bed.” So he called for my brother. He said, “Buzz?” And he, “Uh, uh. No sir, dad. I am right here in the house.” So by this time now, I have eased all the way through the living room, and I am there by the bathroom. And my dad used some words that weren’t meant for Sunday school. At that point he said, “I so-and-so heard that door, and that time I heard that pump gun go clack clack.” I said, “It is me, daddy. By that time, my dad was at that door and had that gun. I turned the light. I said, “It is me, daddy.” He, woo! [Laughter] I can’t tell you the language that he put on me that night. I can’t tell you the tears that I shed because I was so scared.

Because it was not going to be no time. When I heard that pump gun go click- clack, I knew my daddy meant business. And he really could shoot. He didn’t miss. Like I told you, he shot birds, squirrels, and you didn’t find no shots in the meat of those animals that he had killed. Straight for the heads, and that was it. And I just knew, I would have blown if I hadn’t soon said something. And if he





had got past that door without me having that light on, and he could so it was me, I would be a goner. I just believe it. And he never shot any person, but the one thing he taught me, he said, if you ever pull your gun on anybody, use it. So okay. I don’t play. I learned that lesson. Oh gosh, did I ever learn that lesson that night.

	M:	I bet.



	S:	Yeah, yeah. He did a lot of things. I could show you right now a house that he built. And it is still standing in our backyard over there on Third Street.

	M:	Okay.



	S:	Uh-huh. And he had ability to do a lot of things. Like you know, wiring things and stuff. My daddy, he learned how to do things.

	M:	Did he have much formal educations? Or did he just pick stuff up?



	S:	High school. High school. He had high school, and he blew the bass horn in the band back then. And then, he extra money. He played in a little jazz band in nightclubs and stuff extra when we were growing up. He would play with some old friends and stuff. Then when he would get home from—I think I will call it a gig, when he would get in from a gig, he would take that big old bass horn and turn it up. Because people would throw money down in it for him. He would go dre-bum-bum. Yeah with the horns.

	M:	Was that down at the—I have heard of the Blue Note and some places like that?



Were those the pubs that—?



	S:	Oh no. No. No, no. They played— M:	Oh, this is back up in Flemington?





	S:	No, no. No, no. They would play for White clubs. It was a Black band playing for White clubs. No, he didn’t fool with Black nightclubs and stuff. No, we didn’t do that. He didn’t. And we couldn’t go to any places. Any Black nightclubs or, back then they called them jukes. We could not go in any place like that. Unh-uh. Oh no. We couldn’t do it, and he didn’t do it, but he would play in White nightclubs. He and the band that he had, that they did.

	M:	Okay. So that is where he was.



	S:	He made his money, a little extra and stuff, doing that.



	M:	That works. So the Black nightclubs were just too dangerous? What was the reason given? Did they ever tell you? Or was that one of those—?

	S:	I guess he considered it was not a decent place for women to be. And if you thought anything of yourself, you would not go in a place like that. And also, he saw a lot of the White ladies that would be in the nightclubs around, and they would get drunk and stuff like that. I would hear him telling mom, Kitty, you know, Miss So-and-so really. She tied one on. Well, ‘tied one on’ back then meant they really got drunk. We couldn’t do it. We couldn’t be in nothing like that. He said that was absolutely a no-no. And we learned how to drive early. My sister was older than I was. So she, at the time, she got her license, I got mine. So if she wanted to go someplace, and daddy let us have the car. And his thought was, if he let us have the car, we would be responsible. We had to be responsible to go and come, and that meant we wasn’t getting in the car with little boys. So I knew that was a method to his madness about that. We just didn’t go riding in the cars with anybody, because we had a car to drive. So at football games and socials,





we got this. We had our car, and we knew what time we had to be back home. We all had our own little watches. And they had the right time. [Laughter] So when it was time to go home, regardless of how good the social was and how the little boys wanted us to stay there and dance. My sister was a dancer. I never cared that much for dancing. I liked the music and socializing, but I never really enjoyed dancing like my sister did. And I would have to say, “Hey Gwen, it is time for us to go.” And she would be still. And she can still dance today. She loved dancing. She learned all of these line things. I am not into that. I like concerts and stuff, but I never cared much for dancing.

	M:	I can understand that. That leads into a few things. A little more about the Hunting and Fishing Club if I can ask. Did your dad tell you much about his experience there being part of that? Did he talk about it?

	S:	The only thing he would say sometimes, he said—who was it? One of the guys was really anxious to shoot something. And he said, “Man, I had to hold him down, and it wasn’t nothing but a rabbit.” Or something. He would talk like about—it was one guy there that was really anxious to make sure that he was out there doing his job, and it was nothing but a rabbit or something like that. He would say, “Oh, so-and-so, he was really on it last night.”

	M:	Did you hear many stories about the Hunting and Fishing Club later?



	S:	No, other than they would just say who was a part of it. They would say, “Oh yeah. He was a part of it.” Just about all the men at Mount Moriah that had guns or that could shoot, they were out there to protect the pastor. They were there. They took turns to go out there. Say if dad had Monday night or Tuesday or





whichever night, they didn’t have to. They had enough of them that it wasn’t a hardship on anybody’s family, because they were all willing to protect him. And to not only protect him but to protect the family, the entire family. Have you ever been out there where the Pinkstons lived?

	M:	Not yet. I am hoping to go, because Frank Pinkston is coming down. Frank and Ann maybe or something. I am not sure who. Not Frank, Fred. Sorry. Fred Pinkston.

	S:	Fred. Uh-huh. Oh yeah. Okay. Now Fred was in the class ahead of my sister.



Frank was in the class with my sister. See, Frank was in the class of [19]53. Fred was in the class of [19]52.

	M:	And this is Howard that you are talking about?



	S:	Howard. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. See, they were in the class of Howard Academy. I was in the first class of Howard High.

	M:	Oh okay. First graduating?



	S:	First graduating class of Howard High School. Uh-huh. Yeah. And it was interesting, they let us know that we were no longer Howard Academy. We were Howard High. But because our diplomas and stuff had already been made up back then, they still Howard Academy on them. But we knew we were Howard High. So we are celebrating our sixtieth class reunion class reunion this year.

	M:	Oh wow. Which class again? So you are the class of [19]6— S:	I was the class of [19]55.

	M:	Yeah, so [19]55.



	S:	Frank was the class of [19]53. So my sister was like two ahead of me, three.





	M:	[19]55. So what was the importance of the transition to Howard High from Howard Academy? I have heard of that, but—

	S:	Because it was more county and state funded than academy. M:	Did you see much of that go into action during your year?

	S:	Uh-huh.



	M:	As Howard High? Where did the money, where did it go to? New teachers?



	S:	Well, yeah. It was more administrative type of stuff. The school remained the same. We still got the books from Ocala High School. I said we learned. The teachers that we had back then, they insisted that we learn lessons. If it was on the written page, you learned that. So you went accordingly. And they encouraged us to keep up with current events. Although our books were not current, they encouraged us to keep up with current events. So that’s the way it was.

	M:	So your graduating class of [19]55, there had already been some sort of civil rights-related activities—

	S:	Not that much.



	M:	You get Brown v. Board later that year, I believe. Or is it that [19]54. Did you talk much about—?

	S:	They talked about it. It was more talk than any action. The actions came after I was not actually here. I was not actually here for a lot of it. Because when it came down to demonstrations and stuff like that, I was involved over there in Jacksonville.

	M:	And that was after you graduated, you went over there?





	S:	Yeah, that is where I went to school. M:	Oh okay.

	S:	I took my nursing in Jacksonville at Duval Medical Center. Back then, it was Duval Medical Center and Brewster Hospital. So the school that I was in, we graduated as Brewster-Duval School of Nursing students. We took our college credits, all our sciences and stuff, at Edward Waters College. So I went there for the sciences, and Duval Medical Center for most of my practice.

	M:	Okay, so as soon as you graduated here, you went over there. S:	To school.

	M:	Just right after.



	S:	Yeah. The first year, the class was filled. I couldn’t get in, but I was on the list to go in the next year. And so the year that I was out working here, I worked at Diana Shops. Remember Diana Shops? That was a dress shop like Lerners.

	M:	Okay.



	S:	Ross or places like that. It was a dress shop there. During those days, I was working as the maid, layaway runner, window dresser. You know, because during those days, they had windows that you would have the mannequins and stuff in the window. I don’t know if you have seen too much of that.

	M:	Yeah, I know the kind.



	S:	You know a mannequin and what a mannequin is. Back during those days, they would dress. We would get these schematics from—New York would send to all of the stores what had to be displayed in the windows. So I had to learn how to dress the mannequins, how to do bus forms, how to do hanger designs and





dresses and stuff. So it was an interesting job in a way, and I did that. And everything had a special code like the size of a dress and all that kind of stuff, and everything had to be pinned accordingly. And New York would send out the materials to the store that they wanted to be displayed in the window, and we would have to pull the stock. And I would have to shape it and dress it and put it on the different forms and stuff on the window. And whatever the backdrop was. So many flowers had to be here and there and all that stuff. In the fall, the leaves had to be just so in the window. And when the supervisors or the inspectors would come around, if they passed a store and they didn’t have the colors in the window at the time like they were supposed to be, whoever the manager of that store was, they got admonished. And you could not leave a mannequin in the window undressed. You had to always make sure that they were covered. Oh man, there was so many little details that you had to do.

	M:	I can imagine that.



	S:	Yeah and it was very hot in those windows in the summer, and it was cold in the winter. But it was a good experience. I learned a lot.

	M:	Then you moved to Jacksonville that next— S:	Yeah, that next year I was in school. Uh-huh.

	M:	So how did you get involved with demonstrations and things over there? How long were you there?

	S:	Oh, I was there for three years. And then when I graduated, I had a job in Macclenny. I had a job in Macclenny, but I lived in Jacksonville. Yeah.

	M:	Okay, so you were in Jack—?





	S:	I lived a very short time in Macclenny, because I could see I was going to get in trouble staying in Macclenny. [Laughter] So I moved back to Jacksonville.

	M:	What was the problem in Macclenny? —Okay, it’s all right.



	S:	It was a lot going on in Macclenny that I couldn’t quite take in. I will just put it that way.

	M:	All right, I can respect that. So what was Jacksonville like? Because that would have been a much bigger city obviously than Ocala.

	S:	Oh yeah, but that was easy. Jacksonville was easy. I had relatives in Jacksonville that I was always with while I was in school. My grandmother had a nephew there that I could go stay with his family. And my parents had given permission that I could go and stay with my—and my father’s sister was living in Jacksonville. And so, I had an aunt there, and I had close relatives there. And they had given permission for me to go, when my classes permitted, that I could be out. I would always go out to church and different things with them. And they would carry me out for dinner and that sort of stuff.

	M:	Oh okay. That would help a lot.



	S:	Oh yeah. My father and my mother had relatives there. One, KB, he was a postman. He was a postman there. When I would go with him, he would also carry me over to Palatka to see his father. So we would go over there to his uncle, who was my great-uncle, Uncle Ben. We would go over there to see him. He would carry me, and we would go to Palatka on weekends. College and nursing school was very good for me. I enjoyed it. I was not cramped in. I was on my own, and as long as I was being respectable, my parents didn’t get any





worried of anything differently. That was it. And they were very strict on student nurses at that time, too. We had curfew the first year. We couldn’t be anyplace after six o’clock. We had to be in by six. Study hour. We had study hour, and from that, there was no reason for you be out and stuff. But then when you were out of classes on weekends, you could go if you had permission from your family to leave. So that was easy. That was nice.

	M:	I guess so. You said you got involved a little bit with demonstrations and things.



Can you talk about that?



	S:	Yes, a little. Not a lot. Not a lot. I knew what was going on. I was not encouraged from home to be too involved with it, because they didn’t want me to get hurt. So I obeyed. I would go and listen at the meetings. At some of the meetings and the places. But a lot of the demonstrations and stuff, I didn’t actually do that so much. I got a fellow when I was out of school and had my own little car. That little Triumph that I was telling you about. I got out one day. I had been in Woolworth’s, and when I came out, there was a group of them bouncing my car to sit it up on the curb, sit it on the sidewalk. I don’t know if you know too much about that. What they would do with, people driving those little cars, all you had to do was spring them a little bit, and then they would bounce. They would move them totally out of the place where you had park, and I got there just time enough to catch mine before they got side-walked. I did not do any actual demonstrations. I went to some meetings, yes. The meetings but actually go out there, I did not do that.





	M:	There was they call it ‘Ax Handle Saturday’ now in Jacksonville, I guess in 1960.



There was some violence out that way. And St. Augustine got rough a little bit later, too.

	S:	There was some rough things happening in Jacksonville in the area where I had been, but I was not necessarily at the counter to be served or nothing like that. My parents always said, “Know where your place is and know what is your space.” We had to always know your space. Now if somebody entered into your space, you had the right to get them out of it. Do I have to say any more to that?

	M:	I think that is pretty clear.



	S:	Know where your space was. And if somebody entered into your space without your permission, you had the right to get them out. And that is what I tell little kids now in Sunday school that bully, be bullying other kids. Say that is a part of bullying. You don’t know what that means. You don’t have the right to go into nobody’s space. They look at me like, their space. “What are you talking about Miss Stafford?” Everybody has space around them, and unless somebody invites you into it, you stay out of it.

	M:	Can’t argue with that. S:	Huh?

	M:	I can’t argue with that. So were you excited about the civil rights activities that were going on? Did you have any strong thoughts in any direction?

	S:	Well as a kid growing up, I didn’t always understand why some things were and why we had to learn parts of the Constitution. We were all endowed by our creator and blah, blah, blah and all that good stuff. And all men are created





equal. That part, I thought about it, and I understood when we would sing the— what was known back then as the Negro National Anthem. Lift Every Voice and Sing, we had to learn every verse. When we had Black history in school, we had to learn about the different things. We knew about it. But I guess my father always taught us basically we were non-violent. Non-violent. And the fact that we trust and believe in God, in due time, God was going to make things as they should be with some effort from some effort from those that wanted to pursue it a different way. He said, it wasn’t until the fullness of time that God sent his son to earth. That was Jesus. And it wasn’t until the fullness of time that that took place. Now, how much time was it from the time that the world was created that God sent his son? We don’t know that. So we now what man started creating as the calendar and blah, blah, blah. All that history good stuff we had to learn, Why not wait and see what God has in store for us. As far as the civil rights and that, if God encouraged them to write a constitution that all men are created equal, that in good time God would see that we were equal as equal can be. But even in biblical time, they had differences. The Samarians against these. I looked at, when I was in Israel, how they were still fighting about who had what part of the land and that type of stuff. And wars, I guess, would go on forever. We were just taught, at least my perception of what I was being taught during those days, was to know your place in life and do the best you can in that. If you feel you are being too oppressed, then you have a right to speak up for yourself. That is basically the way I came up. Don’t push me down too hard or I’ll have to push back, because then you are in my space.





M:  I mean you told a story earlier that you don’t have to share on the recording if you don’t want to about your father, but I was wondering when did you become aware of racism? Some people will tell me they didn’t really understand—

S:   Race.



	M:	They were used to their own family. They didn’t really see the whole— S:	Whole picture.

M:   Yeah.



	S:	Oh, I became aware that day for sure. For sure that day. Oh yes. Uh-huh. M:	How old were you then?

	S:	I must have been ten or eleven. Mmhm.



	M:	So that kind of snapped some things into focus?



	S:	Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Because when he said that it would mean he would be taken away from us and if he would have to go to jail, and if you respected yourself and you were law-abiding and you were a Christian, Christians just didn’t go to jail unless they did something terrible. It was like you had to almost murder somebody. And then when I got fourteen, I remember this very clearly. I was driving. My mom was in the car with me. And we were on the corner of Magnolia and what is now known as Silver Springs Boulevard, which is really 40. And the store on the corner back then was the Guarantee. And it was a stoplight there, and the light lady was on the side. I had stopped for her light, and the light turned green for me to go. And this White lady took her child and pulled across the street in front, and I had started pulling off. My mom told me, she said, “Stop May.” I said, “But the light is green.” Well it didn’t mean anything to me that this





woman was pulling on out there in front, because I heard her say clearly, “Oh, it’s a nigger.” And she proceeded to pull her child in front of me pulling in the car. I said, “But momma she--” She said, “You still stop. You still have to stop,” and then I got a lecture from my mom. Regardless almost of what they were doing back then, you wouldn’t be right to run over them with your car. But she pulled her child in front, and I was already moving. She said, “Oh, it’s a nigger.” Those were her words, and she pulled that child on out and walked in front of me driving off in the car. I had to stop, because my mom made me stop. In my mind at that point, I thought I would have been right. Mom said, “Yes, you may have been right, but you were wrong to hit her, because she was a pedestrian. And pedestrians always have the right of way. Mom turned it off like that.” But I learned later that was not really what it meant. Yeah. Yeah.

	M:	Had you heard that particular term before? S:	Pedestrians?

	M:	No, the N-word as far as—? S:	Oh yeah.

	M:	In that kind of context, did you hear it much?



	S:	Yes. Oh yes. Oh yes. I heard it quite a bit. We had a teacher at school that made it easier on me by saying anyone can be a nigger. You are not a nigger because of the color of your skin. You are a nigger because of your action, and anybody can be a nigger. That is the way I was taught in school. We had a social studies teacher. Someone like that told us like that. So that made it easier for me to accept, otherwise—I said, “They are just being a nigger.” [Laughter] That is the





way I had to deal with it to be accepting of it. I said, “Well, they are being a nigger.” And they look at me, and they say, “Oh May, why would you say that?” I said, “Mmh no, that is not the way I learned it. I learned that anybody can be a nigger. It didn’t matter about the color of your skin. Negroes or negroids are—you know. We were a race of people.” So that is the way I learned it. That is the way I look at it ‘til this day. If you want to hear me call somebody’s name, I can call somebody that I saw on television or the news last night, and I am saying, he is being niggardly. So that is the way I see it.

	M:	Fair enough.



	S:	Huh?



	M:	Oh, go ahead. I am sorry.



	S:	That was the way I learned to deal with it. M:	You had to find some way.

	S:	Yeah.



	M:	Especially, I don’t know. Marion County, from what I have read was pretty tough back in the day.

	S:	Oh, it was. It was tough.



	M:	Did your parent ever talk to you about any of the lynchings or other things that had happened around here?

	S:	They didn’t have to talk to me. We were able to read and show us one of the experiences that I had during those days. They said that a classmate, during those days, had killed the sheriff, an Orion Johnson thing. I don’t know if you remember. They talked about that. And they executed him, and they had a field





trip to the funeral home for us to see him, because he had been electrocuted. And we had to go up and look at his body. I will never forget that sight. We had to do that. That was a field trip to see what killing an officer would net you.

	M:	Did he actually do it?



	S:	I have always heard that he did not actually do it. He was from a family—it wasn’t that he had to do what they said he did. And some people say that they know for a fact that he did not kill that officer. And there were different scenarios around town, at the time, as to what actually happened. But he was caught up. He was at the right place at the wrong time, and he was caught into it. And nothing they could do to prove to the people. He did not have the body, build, or the stature to match any of the ballistics according to the way—They were set up to say that he was the one that had done that, but he was executed. And as a field trip from the school during those days, we had to go to the funeral home to look at his body having been executed.

	M:	Was that the school wanted to take you? Or did people in the county mandate that they do it?

	S:	I don’t know whether it was mandated. I know we had to go. Each class at a certain time, we walked from Howard all the way up to what is now is Orange. Up there where Chestnut’s Funeral Home was back then. The funeral home was on the corner of Silver Springs Boulevard and Orange. That’s where Chestnut’s Funeral Home was back then. The First National Bank is there now. Is it at the wing? No, it is not called that now. Oh shoot, what is that thing called now? They change the names of these banks and stuff so much.





	M:	That’s true.



	S:	I can’t. Oh, what is that bank called now? It is not called—it’ll come to me.



	M:	Okay. Sorry, I tried to help out, but I don’t know Ocala that well, so I can’t really.



You said his name was Orion Johnson?



	S:	Mmhm.



	M:	Did you know him well?



	S:	Hm—yeah. We started going to school together first out at Waltula. A little school called Waltula. That is just right across I-75 and 40.

	M:	What was he like?



	S:	He was in my sister’s class, I think. Yeah. He was just like most boys. Just a little skinny thing. To me he wasn’t that good-looking, but you know.

	M:	Not everyone can be, I guess.



	S:	He was a little skinny guy. I think he couldn’t play football, but I think he played baseball. He was kind of full-eyed. I guess you couldn’t say he was too bad looking if you liked somebody that looked like that. As far as I was concerned, he was always just an average Joe kind of guy. Nothing spectacular. I never would have pictured him being violent or nothing like that. I didn’t receive nothing like that from him. And to think that he had killed somebody, and an officer. I couldn’t see it, and then when you heard the different rumors around about it. They saved him ‘til he was legal age to execute him although the crime had been committed when he was a minor.

	M:	And then on the field trip, do you remember any of the teachers not wanting to take you? Or did they just kind of—?





	S:	No, it was just a matter of fact type of thing we had to do. M:	Just had to be done.

	S:	Yeah. It just had to be done. I can’t remember them saying anything, a field trip we were going to have to go up to see Orion Johnson’s body. He was executed, and these are the things that happen when you are not seen as obeying the law or something. Something to that effect. So we just had that field trip to go up there and look at him, all burned up in that casket. I mean he was parched. I mean he was cooked. He was cooked.

	M:	That is a pretty tough memory. S:	Mmhm, yeah. Mmhm.

	M:	That must have been going through your dad’s mind as part of the Hunting and Fishing Club. Thinking of—

	S:	Oh yeah.



	M:	How things go.



	S:	Yeah.



	M:	Someone else you grew up with was Frank Pinkston, what was he like?



	S:	Oh, Frank was a good guy. He was just a regular Joe. Frank was—oh, he had plenty of girlfriends, I think. A lot of the girls liked Frank. He had a line. He had a gift of gab, I would say. Frank had a gift of gab. He was bright. He was smart. He was very intelligent. That I say. He was bright, and he knew right from wrong.

Because Reverend Pinkston was—like I said, back then, all our parents, they were very—and because Frank pushed the envelope a little bit more than you





know. It was just the thing. I guess the older people knew what he was saying and doing was right, so since the movement was in effect, they supported him.

	M:	I have been told that a lot of preachers didn’t want to officially be part of that movement, because that basically Ovie Pinkston decided to because of the danger that it put on the church, I guess. But yeah, I have heard a lot of people say—

[Phone rings] [Break in recording]

	M:	It parted again.



	S:	Yes. Uh-huh.



	M:	Let’s do this bit. So we are starting again. So one thing I have heard about Frank Pinkston universally is that he was a gifted speaker. As a preacher, he could just really get people fired up. Did you see any of that when he was a kid? I mean, I guess, you said he had the girlfriends and all. But did he have a—?

	S:	He had a way of speaking, yes. He had a way he could make a point. He could always make a point. And when I moved back to Ocala, he was the pastor then at Mount Moriah, and I heard him speak. He prepared his sermons. They were very, very well done. It didn’t take him forever to say what had to be said, and I liked that about it. I would say he was brilliant. He was a brilliant person. He was very smart. Very smart. He had far more tact and diplomacy than what I have. I am as tactless as a nail. [Laughter] I am not the most tactful person. He had a way of saying things that was—some people may call it clever, smart, whatever. He knew the law, and he operated within the law. And then, you know, how some





people say it is important to let the law work for you, and that is basically the way I saw him working with the Civil Rights Movement.

	M:	Okay. So just knowing how to—? S:	Maneuver.

	M:	Yeah. Yeah.



	S:	Was important. It was important for survival, too. My grandmother had a way of saying, “When you have your hand in the lion’s mouth, you have to be careful how you wiggle your tail. You got that?”

	M:	I think so.



	S:	Okay. So when I was growing up, our families, they had a lot of little saying that I was almost an adult before some of them, a real adult, before I could understand the meaning of some of them, you know. You live and learn. That is what my daddy used to say. You live and learn. Some things I have learned, and some things I still haven’t learned. How to be more tactful?

	M:	Were you surprised to find out that Frank Pinkston was a civil rights activist when you found out about it?

	S:	Oh no.



	M:	That seemed natural?



S:  Yeah. That seemed natural to me. Especially where he went to school, and the respect he had for Martin Luther King. I didn’t see that as being no problem for him.

M:  He was involved in a sit-in up in Richmond that was one of the firsts up there. I don’t know if you have heard much about that.





	S:	I knew where he was in school. That is all I had to say to that, right? [Laughter] M:	I suppose so.

	S:	Yeah. Mmhm. He was an activist person I would say. And Reverend Pinkston, although he was not like Frank, he was a minister that other people like my grandfather and all of them—my grandfather, like I said, was a minister and stuff. And they were in the same district. They call them associations. The Baptist Congresses and all of that kind of stuff. My grandfather and Reverend Pinkston, they were a lot of times in the same things, and I know I had always heard how

O. Van stood his ground. In a lot of ways, over my grandfather he would do. And my father used to get aggravated that my grandfather did not consider him fight for his rights or what he should have been given, because my grandfather conducted and directed choruses, the music part of the conventions and the congresses and stuff. They wouldn’t always give him what he was due, and it cost to perform to do the things that he was doing. But Reverend Pinkston always got what he was supposed to get. So I would say that Frank had some natural instincts for getting where he needed to be, where he felt his people need to be or family or for whatever cause, he would step to it, for it.

	M:	You were not here during the Civil Rights Movement in Ocala? S:	Not all of it, no.

	M:	Oh, you came for some of it?



	S:	I was in and out. Like I said, I move around. I travel and I lived in several places before I moved back to make Ocala my home again, okay? I actually lived in





Macclenny, Jacksonville, Maryland, and back here, Virginia for a while, a short time. I moved quite a bit. I have stayed in different places, different times.

	M:	Seems that way.



	S:	Yeah and I do love to travel. So that’s why I have seen a lot of different things. M:	So did you go to any of the mass meetings over at Covenant?

	S:	No.



	M:	So you weren’t at those?



	S:	I was not here during that time. M:	Okay. Okay. But later you were?

	S:	I was later here, and they told me about a lot of the things that happened. I think I came home. I was living in Maryland, and I came home during the time that my father had to go out for the Hunting and Fishing thing, you know? I was not here on a continuum. I would come home, and then I would go back. It was that kind of thing.

	M:	I see. I see. At Mount Moriah, what did Frank, what kind of sermons did he give?



Was he still talking about issues of civil rights and things like that?



	S:	Unh-uh. No. No. He was actually speaking strictly from the bible basically. No. No. He, by the time I moved back home—I moved back here in about [19]65 or [19]66. I didn’t move back home until around [19]66. Because for a while, like I said, although I had bought this place here, I bought this place here before I left Maryland that I am staying in now. I bought here before I left Maryland. But I didn’t come back home, as a matter of fact, I transferred back to the VA in Lake City until after the one in Gainesville was made. And then I transferred from Lake





City to Gainesville. So like I said, I have moved around a bit and stayed in a lot of different places and travelling just to go see what another country is like. You know? I have done a lot of that.

	M:	This is a straight question I guess, but you mentioned your dad taking you around places, did you ever go over to American-H or any beaches that were available, I guess, to—?

	S:	Yes, we did.



	M:	Where did you go to might I ask? S:	We went to Fernandina.

	M:	Fernandina, okay.



	S:	We went to Fernandina Beach. And when we would go to Sarasota, we would go out and see the gulf and be able to put our feet in the gulf. And he talked about the gulf as opposed to the Atlantic Ocean and that kind of stuff. Yeah, we would go to beaches sometimes.

	M:	Okay. Did you go to Paradise Park very often? S:	That’s where I learned to swim.

	M:	Oh okay.



	S:	I learned to swim at Paradise Park. [Laughter] . M:	I guess that’s a yes.

	S:	That’s it. Yeah.



	M:	What do you remember about Paradise Park?





S:  One of my most embarrassing moments. Strapless bathing suits were just coming in style back then, and I had one. I bought one. And I dived off that board, and the pressure of that water—

M:   Mmhm.



	S:	Brought my bathing suit down. And before that, I had this habit of getting about halfway across from the diving board to the float that was out there. And I would dive off, and I would get about halfway, and I would holler help for the lifeguards to come dive in and get me. I betcha I didn’t call them that day. [Laughter] I pulled that bathing suit up and came out on my back. That was the most embarrassing moment I think that I have had in my life was right at Paradise Park.

	M:	Probably a lot of people there, too. It sounds like it was—



	S:	Oh yes. Oh yes. Oh yes. And one of the scariest moments, I had been told by the boys that you could not make that curve that curved around into Paradise Park doing more than about ten miles an hour. And I had the car that day, and I was sure that I could make it at twenty-five miles per hour. And I did. I made it, but I had my little cousins in there from Tuskegee, and it frightened them. And of course, Ms. Marie, that was operated the concessions, was parked there at the park. She was looking when I pulled on around into the park, and the first thing she said, “Little McCants, was that you? Driving that car that came around that curve so fast just then?” And I said, “Yes ma’am. I was driving,” because I know she didn’t see my mom or my dad. Because, like I said, by then, I am sixteen. My sister was gone to college. She went to Tuskegee so she was gone to college.





And I was here, and I was sixteen, and I had my full driver’s license. So dad let me have the car to take our little cousins from Tuskegee to Paradise Park. And I turned that curve. I made it, and she wanted to know if she need to call my daddy. And I told her no. “You do not have to call my dad to let him know. I promise you I will never do that again.” And I didn’t. I didn’t. But at supper, my little cousin kept, “Daddy, guess what? Daddy.” And so finally he said to her, “What is it, Betty Cassandra?” “We almost turned over. We almost had a wreck today.” Oh, I could have just dropped, because my daddy looked straight at me. He knew I was driving the car with them in it, and you just don’t take chances when you somebody else in the car with you. That had been drilled in my head from in the beginning, right? And so I had to acknowledge it. Well by my cousins being there, my daddy didn’t use the language on me that he would have used had I been there, and I know I got by to a point that day at the dinner table. Oh but after they were gone, I had it. Oh, yes. Yeah but you could not make that curve, because it was paved, but the way that so much of the sand, when it would rain or something, the sand would slide down over the pavement. It really made it slick. So when you hit that curve with that sand sliding and you driving fast, you just—yeah, the car went up on two wheels. I thought I had turned it over, but God was with me. [Laughter]

	M:	Yeah. I guess so.



	S:	Yes, he was. I told them, “No, we didn’t turn over.” I said, “Oh, it wasn’t that bad, daddy.” We went a little fast, but I told you. Yeah. But I went to Paradise that is where I learned to swim. Paradise Park.





	M:	I hear that people came from all over just to go—



	S:	Oh yeah. Yeah. It was nice. The water was nice and clear and everything. And that is why it was hard for me to go swimming in lakes and stuff, you know. Down to Lake Weir. I would go down there sometime. That was really kind of scary, because I was out there one time, and a fish started nibbling on my—and I just knew an alligator had me. Oh, I hollered. And such getting out the water I did. I promised myself. I thought, well if I ever get grown and can have a house of my own, I knew just how I wanted to be able to have a swimming pool in my house that I could go in and control whoever went in it.

	M:	There it is.



	S:	There it is. Yeah.



	M:	Well, I think we have pretty much, given the time constraints, I think we have gone down. There is a lot more, of course, I could ask about.

	S:	Go ahead. You can ask me some more if you— M:	Well, I mean some.

	S:	Oh, you have run out of time on your machine?



	M:	Oh no. No. That thing can go for like twenty hours. Yeah. S:	Well, I can go a little longer.

	M:	Okay. Is there anything else you would add about Frank Pinkston before we have moved on? Do you remember any stories about him offhand?

	S:	No, at the time I moved back home, Frank was the pastor at Mount Moriah. He had his wife and kids there. They were small children. And he was there for a while, and then he left and went to another church. Seemed like he went to





another church down south someplace. We were without a pastor for a while, and the next pastor that we got was my classmate, Lorenzo Edwards. That is there now, L.S. Edwards.

M:   Oh, been there all that time, huh?



	S:	He has been there now the past forty-five, forty-six, forty-five years. So he came after Frank. I think he has been the longest pastor there. But Frank was my sister’s classmate, and Lorenzo was my classmate. So I guess our classes produced pretty good guys. [Laughter]

	M:	Seems that way.



	S:	But Frank, it was under his administration that the church was rebuilt. My mom was a part of the door-to-door missionaries that went around during that time when they were getting the church built. I can’t think of a whole lot of other things that was there. I was, at the time, when I was growing up at Mount Moriah, Frank was not there then. When I was a little girl, we were able to tell what was going on in town. I think I told you earlier that we were one of the few families that had a telephone, because my father drove. We would tell when somebody died from another church by the tolling of the bells. Mount Moriah had a bell that sound a certain way. Mount Zion had one that sound a certain way. Covenant, New Zion, Oakwell. And we could tell what had happened at some of the other churches by the tolling of the bell. That’s the way we communicated back then. By the time Frank came along, he was there during the 19]60s. And things had changed a lot by [19]60s, in the [19]60s. Because, basically, I left home back in the [19[50s, in





the [19]50s around [19]56. And I didn’t just move back in this area until around [19]66. But he was still there as a pastor when I moved back home.

	M:	For a little while longer, I guess. S:	For a little while. Mmhm.

	M:	And I know he started a Head Start program here at Onelf. Did you ever hear much about that? Or interact much with that?

	S:	I know Mildred Bowington was also sister’s classmate, and they have a Head Start place here on 27, Route 27, that is named after her. And she was here during that time. The first Head Start place was over on what is now Martin Luther King Boulevard. It was directly behind the public swimming pool there, the Krowski Center. You know what is now the Krowski Center? It is the auditorium.

	M:	Oh okay.



	S:	Back years ago, it was War Memorial Auditorium. That is where I marched to graduate from there. We would have all of the commencement services there, because that was the largest place in town that could hold for the graduating classes.

	M:	Okay. Just to ask a little more about Howard High/Academy. I guess it was both while you were there. So up in Gainesville we have done a lot of interviews with people about Lincoln High. I mean those alumni associations are still going strong—

	S:	That’s right.



	M:	With people. They have a stronger sense of identity from that sort of thing.





	S:	We do that.



	M:	It sounds like the same thing.



	S:	So far I have been the one usually coordinating the reunions, and I have already started for the one for this year, the sixty years.

	M:	Wow.



	S:	Uh-huh. We have done cruises. We have been on cruises together. We usually always hold a memorial service for those that have gone on. The last big one that we had here was one for the dead in the fiftieth class reunion. Since that time we have lost so many members, and just recently we have lost some. Right now I am in the process of coordinating our sixtieth class reunion with one of the Valedictorian. No, she was Salutatorian of our class that lives in Daytona. I told them I have worked all of these years, it is time for somebody else to take the load. I am tired. And so she had the one in Daytona for our fifty-fifth, and she has agreed to go with the one for our sixtieth, but I will have to get all of the people together around here and notify the different ones around with what we are going to do. Right now I am in the process of getting the roster together. It is still a lot. I can show you some of it.

	M:	Sure. Want me to pause this yet? Middle button. [Break in recording]

	M:	We can wrap up real quickly. Okay.



	S:	I don’t know if I was much help to you.





M:  Oh, you were. Lots of help, too. There is always so much that—is there anything else you would want to add, I guess? Or any other comments you would want to make? Or anything? I don’t know. Any final word, I guess?

	S:	No, only thing I can say is that I happened to have known all of those people that you were asking me about.Except some. Frank Pinkston and his family, those I did know. I knew all of them. I felt, as Black girl growing up in Ocala back years ago, I had as good or better than some girls, because my family, my mother and father, were together the whole, you know. They didn’t believe in divorce and that type. My father was very family-oriented, and he believed in keeping the family together at all costs. Regardless of what, he believed in family. And my mom didn’t have too much of a choice but to stay there, right? My mom was only child, and our family basically was small. A lot of people, it is hard when I tell them I have no first cousins. My mother was an only child, and my father had one sister, and she didn’t have any children. Our family, natural family, was small, because we didn’t have a lot of first cousins. We had a lot of cousins, but they were my parents’ cousins. Because I think my grandmother was one of fourteen or seventeen, something like that. It was a lot of them.

	M:	My goodness.



	S:	It was a lot of Mickens. So natural, naturally Mickens. I don’t think my mother’s father had those many. I think my mother’s father had mostly aunts. I don’t recall her calling too many brothers and stuff. But my father’s mother had a few brothers and sisters, and we knew most of them. That’s the way it was with our immediate family. It is not very large.





	M:	Oh, it worked out.



	S:	It worked out. [Laughter]



	S:	I have no children. My sister has one son, and my brother has quite a few. M:	Okay, well.

	S:	With boys it is hard to tell how many children are out there. M:	That is true.

	S:	I acknowledge six. M:	Okay.

	S:	I acknowledge six. But how many are there? My brother has been somewhat of a rolling stone.

	M:	They’re out there.



	S:	They are out there. It happens. But anyway, I felt I had a very good childhood, basically, to be a September child. I survived. I have survived seventy-seven years, and I am thankful.

	M:	Well said. I guess that is a good place to close. So thank you very much. S:	You are welcome.

[End of recording]





	Transcribed by:	Derick Gomez, April 20, 2015



	Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, November 14. 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019