AAHP 360; Miller; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 360 Dorsey Miller

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Justin Dunnavant and Ryan Morini on November 11, 2014 3 hours, 15 minutes | 85 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 360

Interviewee: Dorsey Miller, Jr.

Interviewer: Justin Dunnavant and Ryan Morini Date: November 11, 2014



	RM:	So this is Ryan Morini, from the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. I’m here with—

	D:	Justin Dunnavant. RM:	And—

	DM:	Dorsey Miller.



	RM:	And we’re in the home of—well, I guess it’s your sister-in-law. DM:	Mmhm.

	RM:	South of Ocala, in what used to be known as the Santos community? DM:	Used to be Santos. Right.

	RM:	Okay. It’s November 11th, 2014. So, thanks for joining us today. DM:	Okay.

	RM:	And you had—can we start by, can you state your full name? DM:	Dorsey Columbus Miller, Jr. [Laughter]

	RM:	Dorsey Columbus Miller, Jr. And when were you born? DM:	January 7th, 1943. I was born here in Ocala.

	RM:	At a hospital, or at home, or—? DM:	At a home.

	RM:	Okay. Was there a midwife there?



	DM:	Midwife, mmhm. In fact, she got my birthdate all wrong, and I found out when I applied for Social Security. It was to my advantage, because she had me born a month ahead. But she filed the birth certificate three months after I was born. Or two months after I was born. And I was born January 7th, 1943. She had





December 7, 1942. So I got a month, social security a month early. So I didn’t have any problem with that. [Laughter] The only thing, I have to remember both of those birthdates, because, for Medicare and all that kind of stuff.

	D:	Was that strategic, or it was just a accident, or—?



	DM:	It probably was a accident, because she took so long to file it, she just didn’t remember. She was an older lady, and a midwife, and you know, they didn’t keep the best of records at the time. So, that’s what happened. I never knew that until I applied to social security.

	RM:	Was she a relative or anything?



	DM:	No, she wasn’t a relative. She was the community midwife. RM:	Oh, okay. Do you remember her name?

	DM:	Miss Finley. Her name was Miss Finley. I’ve forgotten her first name, but her name was Miss Finley. And my mother and father were very, very young. In fact, my mother dropped out of school when she was in tenth grade, and my father tenth grade as well. And I was the second of two children that they had, and so they were very, very young. And so they didn’t know anything like keeping records, either. Yeah, and then I was—when I was about two years old, we moved to Montclair, New Jersey. And I started school in Montclair. And went to kindergarten, and then third grade, and we left there and went to Brooklyn, New York. And I was there for a couple of years, and my parents separated, and my mother sent my sister and I back to Ocala. And I was here until I finished high school in 1961. And interesting that I decided to come back to Ocala after I finished college. I had a very interesting childhood. And when my sister and I





came back to Ocala to live, we came back to live with my grandmother, who was not here. [Laughter] We didn’t know she wasn’t here until we got here! And so we lived with my step-grandfather for a little while. And he wasn’t a happy camper at the time, because my grandmother had gone off and got married to somebody else. And, so he wasn’t really pleased with us being there. And so my sister and I lived with him for about three months, and that was in 1953. And we moved down to Sarasota with my aunt, my mother’s youngest sister. And my grandmother, and the guy who had become my father, really my grandfather, who I had met when I was ten, he was my father figure. He was a preacher, Reverend Essick Williams. And he was a absolutely fantastic man. He was a giant of a man. He wore size sixteen-and-a-half shoes. Big back, big hands, and what have you.

And the interesting thing, and we’ll get to it later on, but he was the assistant pastor at the church where Frank Pinkston’s father was pastor, at Covenant Baptist Church, all right, for about forty years. Because my father was there with Reverend Pinkston for years and years and years. So our family has had a long relationship and close relationship over the years. But anyway, we were down in Sarasota for about three months, and my aunt’s boyfriend tried to molest my sister. Now, my sister—I was ten years old, my sister was twelve years old, couple years older. So we left there and came back to Ocala, and lived with my great-grandmother. And I only tell you this as a background to give you an idea of how it was for me as a young kid. I went to four different schools that year. I started out in New York, came to Howard Academy, then went down to Booker Elementary, and then back to Howard Academy. And lived with my great-





grandmother for about a year. And at the end of that, my grandmother moved back here. She moved back, and she had built a new home, so we moved back with my grandmother. And when I was in eighth grade, my mother decided when I was going into the eighth grade that she wanted us in New York with her again. So, I went back to New York! [Laughter] And she enrolled me in school up there, but there was a situation that occurred with one of my cousins. He was out in the park where we used to hang out, and there was gangs then in Harlem and what have you, and they wanted him to join, and he wouldn’t join. We were both around fourteen years old, and they shot him up with drugs. And to this day, if he’s still living now—the last I heard, he was in Flint, Michigan—he’s been on drugs, you know, became addicted. So my mother—I wanted to come back to Ocala. It was surprising her, because before I came down here in 1953, I hated Ocala. [Laughter] We’d come to visit during the summer, and I’d cry. If we were here two weeks, I would cry for two weeks; if we were here for a month, I would cry for a month, until I went back to New York. But anyway, I’d fallen in love with Ocala, and I begged her to let me come back, and she did. And the thing that was really impacting in my life was that there were teachers who really took a real interest in me. And when I came down to Ocala from New York, it was a traumatic experience because of the fact that I was coming out of a world of integration, to a world of segregation. And it was—one thing that sticks out in my memory: as we were taking the train from New York, coming back here, the Silver Media used to come through Ocala. And when the train got to Washington, D.C., we had to change coaches, because we were riding in integrated coaches





up north. But once we got below Washington, D.C., we had to ride in segregated coaches. I couldn’t understand that as a ten-year-old at the time, because I used to like to run up through the cars and what have you. I was so used to being in a world that was—some were colorblind, because, when I was in New York, in Brooklyn, I was captain of my Little League baseball team. And I was the only Black on the team. And my best friends, there were five of us. And we were like the United Nations. One was a WASP, his name was Richard. He was my—no, Richard was Jewish. And then there was David, was a WASP. Then there was Nicholas, who was Greek. And then there was Douglas. Douglas was Japanese. And I was Black. And we used to hang out together. So, it was a matter of just being people. And then, when I came down here, it was altogether different. And I had to adjust, and it was really an adjustment for me to have to go to the back door, you know, going to segregated schools, going to segregated—being segregated when I went into public places, and the Colored fountains and the White fountains. First one I saw, Colored and White, I thought one water might be some kind of color or something. And the other was just white water. I didn’t know the difference, that I couldn’t drink out of that fountain, you know, without some consequences. But it was a really traumatic experience. But the thing that helped me out; I adjusted. Because you had to adjust back in those days.

	D:	Right. Did they give you any type of warnings? Did your parents or anybody that sent you down, did they—

	DM:	No. No, no, no, no. Mm-mm. It was just a new experience. Never thought about it until I got down here. And I know—I used to be here during the summer, like





when I was in kindergarten and what have you. And I would go to kindergarten for two weeks, because schools started in New York two weeks or three weeks after they started in Florida. We always started after Labor Day up north. And it just was a thing where I noticed the real big difference. You know, all the kids were Black, and all the—you’re all little kids then, you know, you’re not really paying attention too much. But as you grow older, that’s when you become really aware of the differences. And especially coming into a segregated society, they made you aware of the difference. You know. And so, anyway, I found that I was farther ahead educationally than the kids here. Okay? I had algebra when I was in elementary school up there. And I remember I could recite the Song of Hiawatha, and they didn’t know what I was talking about down here. And so, they thought I was—well, the teacher said I was a smart kid, I guess, but because I was ahead, I was just exposed to more. It wasn’t that I was so smart, but I’d been exposed. And I had some teachers who really became my surrogate mothers and surrogate fathers, and they pushed me into a lot of different roads and what have you, looked around, and by the time I got into seventh and eighth grade, I was president of the student body. You know, the junior high—it wasn’t junior high, the elementary went from fifth to eighth and what have you. And president of my class. And so, and it continued when I went over to Howard High School.

In 1956, they built the new high school, and it became Howard High School rather than Howard Academy. And got over to Howard High School, and had absolutely a fantastic high school career. Four years there, enjoyed it tremendously, and was very active again, student body president, president of





the class, and all that kind of stuff. We had a group, it was a high school fraternity, and we called it the Esquires. There were about twenty-two of us in there, in my senior year in high school. And there were four or five juniors, and the rest of us were seniors. And we decided in the fall of 1960 that we would integrate the lunch counters here in Ocala. And we would also integrate the library. And so, we—the Esquires, there were about fourteen or fifteen of us that day—marched down Broadway. Broadway used to be much different than what you see here now. Broadway was a happening place, a happening street.

Extremely busy, a lot of Black businesses and what have you; Ocala back then was absolutely a beautiful place for us to live in, even though it was segregated. It was really like a Tom Sawyer, Huckleberry Finn experience. And we had a lot of Black businesses, and a lot of Black entertainment spots and what have you, and we had something for everybody. I often say, as we speak around the country sometime, I tell people that back in Ocala during those days, we had recreational places for those who were supposed to be the middle class, and those who were not in the middle class. We had places we called juke joints, for them. But we had here, for those who were supposed to be middle class, we had Club Bally, we had The Brown Derby, and the Blue Note. Now, if you wanted to get a razor scar, or a gunshot wound, you’d go to the Night Owl, or the Two-Spot, or Buddy B’s, and they would accommodate you. You know. And if you just wanted to go and relax and enjoy yourself, and not be interrupted by any of that kind of activity, you go to Club Bally and what have you. And we had all of the

big-name entertainers of the day, would come down. James Brown, and all of





those guys. Ray Charles. Come to Club Bally, right here. And it was—Ocala was an exciting place. And Silver Springs was the tourist attraction in Florida then.

We didn’t have Disney World, so Silver Springs was it. So this was the tourist mecca, as well. And, Walt Disney came here while I was in high school, and he was interested in bringing Disney World here. And he wanted it out near east of Silver Springs. But, reputed to be one of the richest, if not the richest man in Florida, guy by the name of Jim Taylor, lived here in Ocala. He was the power guy. And he didn’t want them to come here. He wanted to keep things as they were. And so, that’s how they ended up down there, because they ended up— and what that did for us, it limited the kinds of jobs, and the number of jobs that were available to us, those of us who were natives, once we decided to go off to college. And when I got ready to go, I had never been to Atlanta. I didn’t know about the educational center up there, the cultural center. I didn’t know anything about Atlanta. I wanted Florida A&M. Most kids back then in Florida high schools wanted to go to Florida A&M. There was a song put out by a guy named Hank, Hank Ballard and the Midnighters, called “There’s A Thrill Upon the Hill.” Used to play that. And that’s what I used to sing. My homeroom teacher for four years, she really became my surrogate mother. Ms. Thelma Parker. Ms. Parker used to tell me, “You can sing that song all you want to, but you are not going to Florida A&M.” And I said, [Singing] “There’s a thrill / Upon the hill…” [Laughter] And she say, “You are not going. You’re not going.” So I kind of digressed a little bit, but I’ll go back to the Esquires, and our attempt to desegregate the lunch counters here in Ocala. And we went downtown to McCrory’s, and we sat at the lunch





counter. And they closed the lunch counter down. And there were Blacks who had been in school with us. They were scared—they were working there, and they were scared, looking at what they’re doing. Some of our teachers, even, had left school, and came to try to stop us from doing what we were doing. And they were saying we weren’t going to graduate, and all this kind of stuff. But we were dressed nicely. We had on our colors: we had white shirts, red ties, blue pants on, and everything, so. And we were there, sitting at the lunch counter, and they closed it down. Now, the interesting thing: at that time, there was no coverage of it, and White people at that time in Ocala were smart. They didn’t make any fuss about it. There wasn’t noised abroad, so nobody knew it. So in their mind, this was a one-day happening. And they were smart. And it would go away. They didn’t make any fuss. If they made a fuss, perhaps something else would’ve happened. Okay? And so, I’m—they closed the lunch counter down that day. We left, went to the Ocala Public Library—they’d just built a new library downtown.

And we went there, and it surprised me. We were able to check books out, and sit there and read. And as we—and what we did, we spread out. We spread out all over the library, because we knew that if we all went to one table, the Whites at that table would move. So we didn’t want to give them any options. So we just spread out. And that day, we desegregated the Ocala Public Library. Without any problem. And we did that, and made our statement, and that was it. And then, we tried the various restaurants. I remember going out to McDonald’s. You all passed it, it’s been renovated many times, coming down here on the south 441. We went there, and they said—we drove up, tell them we want some





hamburgers. They said they didn’t serve niggers. We just said, “We didn’t come to order niggers. We came to order some hamburgers.” [Laughter] And they said, “Well, if you don’t leave here, we’re going to call the police.” So we hung around for a while, and we left there. And we went to another restaurant. Then we went to a restaurant called The Brahmin. And they used to have a big, black Angus cow in front of it. It was very, it was the restaurant in Ocala at that time. And so, we decided we’d go there. And we went in, and they offered to sit us down and serve us. But we didn’t have any money, so we left. We just—we knew that they were going to turn us out, turn us down, but we didn’t expect them to seat us.

And they said, “Okay, come on in and have a seat.” So then we left. [Laughter] So, that was in the fall of 1960. Okay? And, so I left, and like Ms. Parker said, I didn’t go to Florida A&M. She made me go where she wanted me to go. She was a graduate of Spelman College up in Atlanta. And I was extremely happy after I got there that she had insisted that I go. And in the summer of 1963, I was going into my junior year at Morehouse, and our recreational center, we used to call it the auditoriums. It’s out the western part of Ocala. And you had a complex. You had a ballpark complex where you had three big stadiums, because the Boston Red Sox used to use this as a training. Around there, we had a football stadium, and two baseball—huge complex—and outdoor tennis courts. We had, we were one of the first communities—well, Ocala was one of the first cities that provided a swimming pool for Blacks. When we got our swimming pool in the late [19]50s at our recreation, probably we didn’t have more than one or two other cities in the state that had a swimming pool for Blacks. So that was a little progress, you





know. We thought we had it made, because we had a swimming pool now. But anyway, I was out there one day, and a guy who was a student at Hampton Junior College—back then, you know, we had junior colleges, and they were segregated as well. You had the Ocala junior college, Central Florida whatever, and then you had Hampton. That was for Blacks. And it was on the same campus as Howard High School. And so, one day, I was out at the auditorium. And he saw me. His name was Charles Washington. And he was the president of the student body at Hampton. He was from Haines City. And he said, “Dorsey, I need to talk to you.” And so, he said, “You know, SNCC”—the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee—“is over in Dunnellon. And they’re training people in the art of defending themselves”—or how not to defend yourself, non- violently—“and getting ready to start a little something over there.” And he said, “Ocala is the largest city in this county. And nothing’s happening here. Since you know everybody, look like you could pull some kids together, and we could try to organize a Youth Council, NAACP Youth Council.” I said, “Yeah,” because I had been involved in the sit-in movements in Atlanta. And I said okay. And so it was a day or two later when I, along with Charles, and a guy by the name of—a good friend of mine—David Rackard, and a couple others, we went to meet with the president of the NAACP. His name was Robert Hall, Mr. Hall. And I knew Mr.

Hall, well, he was a members of the church and so forth, [inaudible 23:20]. And we went by his office. And I told him what we wanted to do, we wanted to form an NAACP Youth Council. And he told me, he says—I’m paraphrasing his words,





but they almost exact—he said, “We only have seven paying members of the NAACP here. So, a Youth Council is out of the question.”

[Exchange with DM’s wife regarding the release form, 23:50-24:08]



	DM:	And so, he said, “We only have these seven paying members of the NAACP, and there’s no way that we’re going to try to organize any Youth Council. We don’t have the resources.” And so, needless to say, we were disappointed. And so, as we were leaving his office, which was right across the street from Covenant Baptist Church—that was before they had this bridge and all that they got down there now—I said to the group, I said, “We’re not going to give up this easy. Tell you what: let’s go over there and see Reverend Pinkston.” And this is Reverend

O.V. Pinkston. This is Frank Pinkston’s father. And I often tell people he was the unsung hero—

[Exchange with DM’s wife regarding the release form, 24:59-25:29]



	DM:	But anyway, what happened was, I said, “Well, let’s go over and see if Reverend Pinkston is there.” And we went over, and he was there. And I told him that we’d like to use his community center if we could, the following Friday—that was like on Wednesday—because we wanted to organize a Youth Council. I said it could be the NAACP, it could be something else, but we want to organize a Youth Council, because we are fed up with the conditions here in Ocala, and we planned to do something about it. And he said, “By all means.” Okay? And so, that Friday, we had about two hundred or more students to meet at the community center at Covenant. And we organized, and I presided over the meeting. And so, we had elections of officers, and I was nominated as president.





And I told them no, I didn’t plan to be in Ocala the entire summer, because I had to go to New York. I said it wasn’t my idea, it was Charles Washington’s idea. But they didn’t know who Charles was. And I said, “Now, I’ll accept the vice presidency and work with Charles while I’m here, and get this thing on. But I think I’m going to decline, and I want to nominate Charles.” So that’s when we organized. And then we made David Rackard secretary, so forth, and we organized Youth Council. Then I talked with Reverend Pinkston about allowing us to use his Sunday School classes as offices as we were organizing, because we were going to protest, and sit in, and so forth. And he said, “Yep. You can do that, too.” [Laughter] All right? So we did that. So after about a week or two, we organized, and we thought about it, and we came to the conclusion that we needed an adult group in support. And so we went to Frank Pinkston. Frank was young, energetic, dynamic. And he said, “No problem.” [Laughter] And when he came on board, that was really the impetus to start an Ocala movement. And the thing was so successful, that by the end of that year—[19]63—the Ocala branch of the NAACP had become the largest in the state. And we had mass meetings, and we organized sit-ins, and I remember the first three sit-in attempts. I led one group, Charles Washington led a group, and David Rackard led a group. I took my group to Liggett’s, at the Pine Street Shopping Center. Charles went to McCrory’s, and I believe Dave went to the Marion Hotel. Because they all had lunch counters. And Liggett’s was the first to desegregate. We went in there, we sat, and we had—lot of adults were walking around with the big pocketbooks, I guess women, I don’t know what they had in they pocketbooks, but they wanted





to protect their children. [Laughter] And I recall that the manager of Liggett’s asked me if I would come in the back with him. And I said, “Yes, but I’m going to bring somebody with me.” And I, we had a football legend there with us, his name was Bob Rice. And I asked Bob to come back there with me. And we went in the back with him, because I didn’t know what he wanted in the back! [Laughter] And he said that he talked with his office back in New York, and they said that if we would leave peacefully, without any disturbance—now, this was on a Saturday—he said, by Monday afternoon, his counters would be desegregated. And we agreed to do that. And they were. So that was the first entity. Now, we had—so, like, Bitting’s Drug Store. Bitting’s Drug Store there, I think they had two or three, and they were very prominent here. Rather than to do the same thing, he took his lunch counters out. And so, what we did, that summer was a hot summer. And after I left, it even got hotter. And many of the kids went to jail and what have you. But we prevailed, and things began to change. And the Hunting and Fishing Club had to guard Frank’s house for months and months. A really good group of solid Black men. And they protected him, so forth and so on. Now, that’s phase two of what I call the Ocala Movement, because phase one was when we, the Esquires, did what we did. And it was very little ruckus over it, because they ignored us, and as a result, it died out. It just fizzled out. Phase two was in [19]63. But then, in 1966 or [19]67, phase three began. And we started again. And we organized two groups: Concerned Citizens of the Black Community, and Black Students In Action. The Concerned Citizens was a group of adults and what have you, with ministers and all involved with us, and then,





Black Students In Action was a youth group. And they had some outstanding young people in that youth group. And we made a lot of noise. And we started integrating, or desegregating, city commission meetings, and county commission meetings—because up until that time, Blacks just didn’t go. You had one Black guy would go to city commission meetings, for years. His name is Pinkney Woodbury. He would always go. But none of them, nobody else would go down there. And I can recall going to, I believe this was in [19]70, going down to see the city manager, because there were some young kids I had taught who came back, and—I had been to Vietnam—and came, and said to me that, it was shameful that even the Christmas decoration, when they decorated the city, stopped at Orange Avenue. And Orange Avenue, coming from the east side of downtown going west, was the dividing line between the Black and White business districts. There were about four blocks, from Pine Street to Orange, on Broadway, where you had a lot of Black businesses. And you had some Whites. A lot of Black businesses. And when they did the Christmas decoration, they would stop at Orange. [Laughter] They wouldn’t take it any further west to include the Black businesses. And I remember meeting with the city manager, and he told me that White businesses didn’t mind paying the fifteen dollars, or whatever it was, fee. It was a lot of BS he was talking. And that’s why they stopped. I said, well we won’t have any problem in the future. They’ll pay that, too. But we want to see decoration all the way down to Pine Street. Now, that was a victory.

Something like that! [Laughter] And you know, it was just a way of life. And until these guys had gone to Vietnam and come back, we had never really thought





about it. That they won’t even decorate our part of the downtown area, business area. That’s how bad it was. And the first time we went, we organized groups to go to city commission meetings, and city council meetings, and what have you. And the first time we went to a city commission meeting, they said pledge of allegiance, or prayer, and they dismissed. Because they were shocked! [Laughter] They didn’t know how to handle us, see more than Pinkney Woodbury sitting up there. And so, we agitated quite a bit to kind of change the flavor of things. And then, I was at the University of Florida then, and I had come back from—I went to Germany, and I had come back from the Army. And the law required that they give me my job back, teaching. But they found a way not to do that. Okay? Because I was an agitator. I had failed the physical for the Army twice, but the third time, they took me, because I was an agitator. And when I came back, after going and coming back, I couldn’t get a job. Then I got accepted to Florida, and especially after I got my fellowship and then I had the

G.I. Bill, I was bringing home more money than I would have if I had been teaching. And that was a blessing for me. We really started agitating again, we had—the night Martin Luther King was killed, the night after, I was at home. And James Cunningham, who became the first Black city councilman here—and he had been president of NAACP, and he was a mortician and all—came up to my house to get me to come to the Baptist Seminary—that’s a place in West Ocala—because the kids were threatening to go downtown and burn it up. And they had hundreds of kids there. And he said he couldn’t get them to listen, so he came and got me. So I went out there, and after getting some of my student





leaders—you know, Black Students In Action—we got the crowd under control, and they didn’t go down. But I look at that sometimes, and to be honest with you, sometimes I said I wish I hadn’t gone, and let them go down there. Because Ocala in my estimation has been slow, still, to really change. It seems to me that it’s in a time warp. And so many—we’ve had a lot of outstanding Blacks who grew up here, went to high school here, left, went to school, and never came back. And it would have been a different Ocala if they had. It was a lot of talent. For instance, Jesse McCrary became the first Black Secretary of State in Florida since Reconstruction, right here in Ocala. Dr. Mack King Carter was one of the leading ministers in this country, from right here in Ocala. We’ve had people like Gladys Ann Gary, Dr. Gary, who was national president of the Links. I’m a former national president of Omega Psi Phi. So we’ve had a lot of people to leave here who’ve done extremely well. I remember my class only had ninety-one of us, but sixty-some of us, sixty-six I believe—I counted—went to somebody’s college, either junior college or went off to college. And about thirty-seven of us have at least a bachelor’s degree. And that’s a big percentage, a lot. So we have had a lot of outstanding people, but they didn’t come back home because there was nothing here for them to do. You could teach, and then when I came back here to teach, the salaries weren’t equitable. And I couldn’t believe when I got my first check what it was going to be. You know, I was so excited about working, I had worked in the summer—Frank Pinkston had a Head Start program he was the director of. Because he was principal of a school, a private school, Matthews- Scipio. And they sponsored this Head Start program, and he made me director of





one of the centers, out at a little place called Cotton Plant. And I was getting a hundred and fifty dollars a week. And I said, “Well, this is great!” Because if I’m getting a hundred and fifty dollars a week, that’s six hundred a month; here, that’s a lot of money back in the day. I said, “I know when I start teaching school, it’s going be more.” But it was much less! I was only bringing home two hundred and seventy-some dollars a month! My salary was only 4150 a year. Four thousand, one hundred fifty dollars. I couldn’t believe it! Okay? But, my room and board, living with my grandmother was only forty dollars a month, gas was about thirty cents a gallon or whatever, so everything is relative. But we didn’t have the opportunity to spread our wings and to grow. And what happened to me after the summer, when I came back from the Army in 1970, and we had this Black Students In Action, and Concerned Citizens of the Black Community really going well, there were threats on my life then. And so, the Hunting and Fishing Club looked out for me. And the Chief of Police at that time, his name was, I think his name was Alvarez—there were many times that they were trying to set me up.

And the reason they could never really set me up like they wanted to, my aunt worked as a custodian at the city. Was assigned to the city, to the chief. And she was like a piece of furniture in the room. They didn’t care about her, so they told all. And so she’d tell—she called me “Junior”—and so she’d say, “Junior, don’t you do this. Don’t go over here,” you know, on a particular night, and “Make sure your car is locked,” and make sure this and that, “because they’re gonna plant some drugs on you.” All kinds of stuff they were trying to do. And so, what happened was, Alvarez made members of the Hunting and Fishing Club auxiliary





policemen. And that way, he could more or less control them. And I remember Mr. Dukes, who was the president of the Hunting and Fishing Club, they made him a lieutenant in the auxiliary police. I saw him one night at Club Bally—this was in 1971. No, [19]70. And he said to me, he said, “Mr. Miller, don’t worry about anything. We still looking out for you.” And I said, “Well, man, I appreciate you saying that, but you know, how can you look out for me, when you working for the police chief who really is my sworn enemy?” I mean, I didn’t look at him as an enemy, but he looked at me as an enemy, simply because we were doing things like going to county commission meetings, going to the school board meetings, challenging some of the things they were doing verbally, you know, and speaking out. We weren’t any—rioting and all that kind of stuff. But that was not the way you were supposed to act as a Black person in Ocala. This was in 1970. And so, I’ll never forget, one night I was at a juke joint called the Blue Gardenia, and a guy who worked at the Ramada Inn—used to be the Ramada Inn, they changed the name now—on I-75, near 27, he came up to me and told me that he had just left a meeting. And he told me who was at the meeting. And these were some of the leaders, the White power structure in Ocala and Marion County. And he told me the people that were there. And I couldn’t believe it—you know, the top leaders, political leaders and others. And they had offered him, he said, five hundred dollars to kill me. Okay? Or three hundred dollars to get somebody to do it. And I used to drink back then, you know? And I told him—I was still young, I don’t know [inaudible 43:12]. I said, “You know, what you telling me is suspect, because you never were involved in the Movement.” That’s what I





tell him. “So why would you be coming to tell me something that’s going to be for my good?” And I told him, “Get out of my face, man, I don’t need to hear what you got to say. If they want to come, they want to kill me, then you should’ve taken them up on it.” Actually, I didn’t take him that seriously. And then my wife and I went down to Ft. Lauderdale to visit my best friend, who had moved down from here. And we stayed down there for ten days. And when we came back, I thought about what this guy had said. And I went out to the Ramada Inn, and he came out, and I said—before I left—and I went over what he had said, and I said, “I’d been drinking and all, I just want to hear the story.” He said, “They met right upstairs, right here. You got to be very careful.” And so, I said, “Okay.” And so, I had a little gun, and I wasn’t that fearful, and I had my dog, Duchess, in the back. And I really wasn’t afraid. You know you’re young—when you’re young, like you guys, you aren’t as—when you get older, you get more cautious. Back then, I used to do things with reckless abandon. It didn’t matter to me, whatever, I wasn’t afraid at all. But what happened was, I had to do an internship at Florida. And they assigned me to Tampa. And that’s how I got out of here. And I left Tampa, and went down to Ft. Lauderdale. So I’ve been down there for about forty-two years. The interesting thing, when I used to come back home, for about ten years or more, when I’d get here, and I’d go downtown, there was always this inspector. His name was Ware. He was Inspector Ware, I think that was his name. He and another guy would always be shadowing me. And I used to wave at him. [Laughter] And he used to wave at me. For about ten years. And I wasn’t, now I’m just visiting, this was all behind me. We printed a newsletter, two of us,





called Aware. And it was news for and about the Black community. And we used to sell it for twenty-five cents. I wish I could find one of those old newspapers.

And we used to agitate with that paper. And we had a little office downtown—you know, down in the Black section down here. And we had a hotbed of activity from that office. And then I left for good in [19]71. And that was it. And I’ve been back many, many times—and interesting, though, I can say this: there was a man, I wish I could think of his name. He was a big fellow. Really nice guy. Mayor of this city. And I spoke once when they were dedicating the Martin Luther King memorial over on Martin Luther King Boulevard. I spoke for a big program they had. And at the end of the program, he came up to me and said, “We sure would like to have you come back to Ocala.” And that made me feel good. That’s been about twenty-some years ago. And so, things have changed for me, because before, I was persona non grata. But I have not seen what I call the immediate west side of Ocala change. It’s become worse. It’s, when they tear down, they don’t rebuild, and sometimes they let buildings just decay. And they cut off, they divided the Black community, and the business district is no more. You don’t have any Black businesses, you don’t have any Black entertainment spots. And that’s not unlike other places; Gainesville or anywhere else, it’s the same. But things have changed. So, that was it with the Civil Rights, my experience with Civil Rights. And you asked me about—I told you earlier, that when I went over to [University of] Florida in 1970, there were only about three hundred of us there.

And we had some confrontations during those times, on campus and what have you. Interesting thing, they had the first Black student body president then. I can’t





think of his name. And we had Roy—oh, God, he was in the dean’s office, the Dean of Students, but he was responsible for working with Black students and other minority students. And he was a real key to things being worked out in a way that didn’t cause a lot of problems over there for Florida. And I’m trying to think of—I know him very well, he’s a fraternity brother of mine. And I can’t—and we got to be very close. He moved to South Florida. And when I moved down there, his wife and I got our doctorates together at FAU. Because I didn’t know him that well at Florida. Because I was the grad student, and I was commuting, but he was Roy—I’ll think of it. I’m having a senior moment. But the—

	D:	Was that when Sam Taylor was there?



	DM:	What’s the name? Sam Taylor? Yeah. That’s his name. Yeah, I think he was the president of the student body. He was a undergrad. And Gainesville has always been more progressive because of the university, when it’s compared to Ocala. And I had a real good experience at the University of Florida. Was accepted, especially after the first quarter when they saw I could compete. And students reached out to me. First quarter, they go down to the stacks, they go down to the library, they would study together. I had a guy who was in a wheelchair, he was paraplegic. Name was Clifford; I forgot his first name. He and I were very close. And there was a blind girl, her name was Sue. They were both very, very smart. And so we got to be friends because we all had our little handicaps. And we used to come over to Silver Springs and study sometimes together and what have you. And we all did real well. We had a real close bond. I’d like to know where they are now. But the experience was really good. And I had some professors who





were absolutely fantastic. They had Travis Carter. Dr. Carter, he was Jimmy Carter’s first cousin. And he was professor of logic. He tried to get me to stay to Florida and get me to work on my PhD. He was my guy. I liked him tremendously. And then we had Dr. Langston, and then there was Dr.—he was the father of the twelfth grade test back then. Lester, Lister, or something, but in College of Education. They had a lot of outstanding professors over there back then. And I don’t know if they still do it, but back then, they used to have students over for dinner, and with their student assistants and all that. And the reason I remember that so well is because I had unique eating habits. I don’t eat a whole lot of spices, and different kind of foods. I’m not going to eat Asian food, and African food, and all that kind of stuff. And usually, when we were home, my wife would cook for me, and then she might cook for her and the children when they were there, when the kids were young. But I tell you that only to say that when I was invited sometimes to come together, and they would have different meals that they liked, and I’d sit there and I wouldn’t eat. [Laughter] And they would say, “Dorsey, what’s wrong?” And I said, “I don’t like that. I can’t lie to you, I don’t like that.” So, word got around, so they would know. When I would come, they’d have something that I would eat. I remember the first time I had ever gone—I had dinner at the Governor’s Mansion, Bob Martinez was governor. This was back in the [19]80s, I think. The [19]80s, whenever he was governor. And we were there, and we were sitting at the table, and they were serving us five, six course meal.

And I wasn’t eating. I was drinking water. And had butter on the bread. So the governor looked at me, “Dorsey, you’re not eating.” I said, “I’m sorry, governor. I





don’t eat any of this stuff.” They had duckling and all this, I said—he said, “Oh, well, what do you eat? What would you like?” I said, “You know what I really would like to have?” He said, “What?” I said, “A hamburger and some French fries.” [Laughter] And he had his chef cook a hamburger and some French fries. I just, I never ever, never ever, pretend. And so, Ft. Lauderdale—and when we left, and went down to Ft. Lauderdale, talk about you smiled when you mentioned Rick Scott and what have you, but when I went out to Ft. Lauderdale—I got very much involved when I was nineteen years old in politics here in Marion County. I was chairman for Bill Chappell when I was in college. He was a councilman from here. “Westside Citizens for Bill Chappell”: that’s how I got my first taste of politics. And I continued that when I got down to South Florida, Ft. Lauderdale area. And in 1981, I believe it was, I changed my party from Democrat to Republican. Okay? And that was a real experience as well, because Ronald Reagan was president, and there was a great deal of animosity in the Black community toward Ronald Reagan. And I was the vice president of the Black Democratic Club in Ft. Lauderdale, Broward County. And was slated to become president. And I changed my party. [Laughter] And so, it was a lot of stuff about it, okay? And the reason I did that, later on I shared with some people, is because I was really just tired of being taken for granted. I’d worked very, very hard in the Democratic Party, and never sought any pay or any monetary reward. I did want access, because I realized that access gives you the ability to help your people. So you can’t pay me a hundred, or two hundred, or a thousand dollars. I want access, like the others who participate have access. And it’s more





important to me to be able to have some input in deciding who’s going to be a judge, or who’s going to be appointed to this commission or this board, than those few hundred dollars. And so, I remember having worked very, very hard with Bob Graham. Originally started out with Bob Shevin, who was the Attorney General of Florida then. And he was the leading candidate in the Democratic Party, but he lost. He was Jewish, and it was hard for a Jew from South Florida to get elected in Florida back then. Bob Graham was able to do it; he won the primary. And so then, in the general election, we went with Bob Graham in a big way. And we traveled, I traveled all over the state with him. We did a lot of stuff. And then at the end of the election, after the election, there were some young guys like yourselves, came to me, and said, “Dr. Miller, you know, we worked just like the White kids worked, and a lot of those kids are getting jobs, and we haven’t gotten anything. We didn’t get anything back for putting in all this work.

Haven’t got anything.” I said, “Oh, we can do something about that.” And I called the matriarch of the Democratic Party in Broward County at that time, and I said to her what they had said to me. And I said, “I’m sure there’s something we can find. They aren’t asking to be Secretary of Labor, or Secretary of Education; they just want a job.” Okay? And she told me, “Dorsey, I’m sorry. There’s nothing I can do.” And she was very wired. Jimmy Carter had made her a Citizen Ambassador to the United Nations. She was extremely wired. And I said, “What? All this work we’ve done, and we can’t get nothing?” And so, when the chairman of the Republican Party at that time approached some of us—there were thirteen of us he invited out—and he said these words: he said that the line of leadership





and opportunity is very short in the Republican Party for Blacks, and you know, it’s a stampede over in the Democratic Party. He said, “Then you’ve got to think about the fact that you really need somebody at both tables.” And I thought about what he said. And that was true. Said, “You don’t get anywhere just by being a one-party people. Because when your party’s out, you out.” And I say, really, when they in, you’re still out, because you aren’t going to get much. [Laughter] And so I made that decision, along with six others. And I found that to be true.

And I was a Republican for twenty-eight years. That was one of the best political decisions I’ve ever made. One of the best. A lot of rewards from that, not only for myself but for others. And I developed some very strong relationships, like with the Bushes. The Bush family is a very close family to me. I started out with the forty-one, as one of his co-chairs in Broward. And got extremely close to Jeb, and to—didn’t get as close, but pretty close to the president, George, the second one. And was able to, to like I said, have some impact on—we had, for instance, I’ll never forget: back in the [19]80s, we had never had a Black female judge in Broward County. So we were here, Florida Black Republican Council, which I was one of the co-organizers of. I was president of it, Black Republicans in the state. And we had a meeting here in Ocala, held the meeting here. And I’ll never forget, this is a story—we were at the Hilton Hotel. And we were having a reception for the governor, Bob Martinez, out in Fellowship. That’s where the horse farms are. Martel, and out that way. And I remember, I was saying to this guy, this brother who owned the horse farm out there, I said, “Now, we bringing the governor here. Now, we don’t want no bullshit. You know, we want you to





have a real horse farm.” I mean—. He said—my father-in-law out here, got three or four here, he used to keep about four or five horses out here. This is his thing from over there, all the way from my brother-in-law’s house over there, and then my father-in-law’s house, this all just used to be my father-in-law. He used to keep horses out here and whatever. I say, “We want to have something a little bit bigger than what my father-in-law got.” So he says, “Aw, no, I wouldn’t worry about that. You’ll like it.” So, we invited all of the—Broward was turning then to Republican. So they had some County Commissioners and others. So we invited all of them out. And so I think it was a Saturday morning, and the governor was coming in about 11 o’clock that morning. I said, “Well, we’d better go out here, and I want to see this place where we going have this reception.” So, we drove out, and we saw this—we saw this property had a trailer on it. I said, “I don’t believe this! This is what Willard is bringing us out here, the governor’s coming?” And there are about five of us in the car. And some of the other guys were saying—they were all city guys from Miami or Tampa or whatever—they said, “Now isn’t this something? We can’t be embarrassed by this!” I said, “You know what? I should’ve checked this out before I decided to have this thing here. This is my fault. But I don’t see”—my father-in-law’s a mortician. So he had these blue tents that he let us use, he wanted us to use some of these for the reception. I said, “I don’t see O.B.’s tents out here.” And so we went on around the corner, and we came to this beautiful place. And I looked over, and I saw my father-in- law’s tents set up out there. And I said, “I knew Willard had something!” [Laughter] “I knew my man wasn’t going let me down!” Now, we was talking





about Willard, I can’t even say it on the recording the things we were saying about Willard. But I say, “I knew Willard was going to come through!” And he had a beautiful place out there, man. And we had about three or four hundred people come out. And I introduce this female lawyer, and her husband who’s also an attorney. He was a Democrat, they were Democrats. And I’d say to them, “You need to join this group we got.” Not the Black Republicans, but a group called the Platinum Club. It was a different package. And I said, “Come on up to Ocala.” And she met Bob Martinez, and about four months later, she was a judge. That was the kind of thing that I wanted to be able to do. Okay? The supervisor of elections in Broward County, now, Brenda Snipes, Dr. Snipes. Black female Democrat, was my recommendation, once Jeb Bush removed the other Black female Democrat who was supervisor. And so when you can see stuff, when you can do that kind of stuff, that’s the impact. That’s what was important. When Black businessmen—businesspeople, rather—can get contracts. When you can put people to work. When you can help kids go to school with scholarships and grants. That’s the important, that’s the real rewards of being a part of the political process. And we miss out on that, because we accept watermelon. In the past, they used to give us a watermelon, and fish, and chicken. You know, they’d have a big picnic for you. And that was the essence of it. And I said, “I’m tired of watermelon, fish, and chicken.” You know. And I said, “We ought to be able to buy some watermelon, and chickens, and fish if we want to.” And the way you do that is because you have to have access. And so that’s what we have not had.

And Florida, even today, Florida was left out of—you guys are from other





states—the Civil Rights Movement. We didn’t have a big presence here of SCLC, SNCC, Martin Luther King and all, they didn’t—Martin Luther King came down to St. Augustine once. But Florida was, back in the day, in our minds—in the minds of a lot of other people—not the South. It wasn’t Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, and so forth and so on. Because we didn’t grow all that tobacco and cotton and what have you. We were a tourism state. And as a result, we were left out of the Civil Rights Movement. And we’re behind now. Because other states are much further ahead of us, when you look at the progress politically and economically.

And we’re still fumbling around in the state of Florida. And I looked at this last election, in which Rick Scott [won]. There’s no way in the world that Charlie Crist should not have won the election, had he followed the advice of those of us who know how to turn out the Black vote. And one of the big problems I have with both parties, having been active in both parties—I’m an Independent now, I decided about six, seven years ago just to be Independent—George Wallace said years ago, that there’s not a dime worth of difference between a Republican and a Democrat. [Laughter] He’s right. Especially when it comes to us. And I’ve seen that, having had the experience of both parties. We are taken for granted by the Democrats. We are neglected by the Republicans. And as a result, Black people in this state are losing. Black people in this country are losing. Because Democrats say, “Well, we don’t have to do anything for them. If they come out to vote, they going vote for us.” Republicans say, “We don’t need to do anything for them, because if we do, if they go out to vote, they still aren’t going vote for us.” And until we can look at it, and look at common interests, and look at interests





rather than party, we’re going to continue to be left out. And that’s the philosophy that I’ve been trying to spread and preach around, and I’m in the process of trying to do something right now, organize a different type of movement. Because it’s not about party. Because if it were about party only, we probably never would have become Democrats. Because it was the Republican Party that freed us. Not one Democrat—I say this in some of my talks, that not one Democrat voted for the 13th, 14th, and 15th Amendment. You understand? And so, but what’s happening now, very few Republicans voted for the Voting Rights Act, you know, without being forced to. And very few of them accept it today. So what we have to look at is interests. And we’ve got to look at mobilizing ourselves, as others who come here from other places mobilize themselves, and utilize all of their resources—economic, education, political—to get ahead. Today in this state, we have an Hispanic U.S. Senator. Now, they didn’t even make a splash over here ‘til [19]59. Okay? We been here four hundred, five hundred years. And the thing is, when I look at how there’s, especially today, even those people of color—you mentioned you’re going to Ethiopia: Haiti. Jamaica. They come over. Okay? And they can bond together and band together, and they move forward. So much so that they have designated locations in various counties, like Miami, “Little Haiti.” Okay? In Broward County, Jamaica Hill, we used to call it “Lauderhill.” Okay?

And they have their businesses, and they’re thriving. And the elected officials. We have some cities down there—Lauderdale Lakes community down there, the mayor’s Jamaican. Two of the councilpeople Jamaican. Miramar, which is a large city, almost a hundred thousand—over a hundred thousand now, people. You





know, Jamaican representation, and what have you. Because they’ve come together. African Americans have still been left out. We left out. And there’s a reason for it, and we know the reason, so now we got to start dealing with the solutions. How we can change. And I believe—and I’ve said this many, many times in the past, especially when I went to Germany—I was somewhat militant, yeah. I used to have a goatee, and a [motions for afro], when I had hair. [Laughter] Believe it or not, I had a afro. And I was bitter about a lot of things. But when I went to Germany, and had the experience of being discriminated against because I wore a green uniform, it taught me something. It made me—I became enlightened. Okay? And I realized that I was being discriminated against not because I was Black, because the Africans who were over there—I was in a particular place once, and when the German nationals were treating them far better than me. They were more receptive to them than to me. And the only reason they were not as receptive is because I had the green uniform on of the United States of America. And we were there to give; the Africans were there to take. Because they were there in they schools and everything and what have you, and working jobs. We were protecting them and so forth. So. But that was the difference. And I said, you know what? If the Russians—and back then, it was the Cold War—if the Russians come and bomb Ocala, they aren’t going to go to the east side of Ocala and say, “This is where the White folks is, so we going bomb them. We going leave all the Blacks over there, not going to bomb over there.” They’d tear all of our behinds up, okay? Because we’re all Americans. And that’s when it became very important to me, realizing, with all of





the negative things, and experiences I’ve had, that this still is the best country in the world for me and for my children. That’s the way I look at it. And so it would behoove us to come together as a people, this country—especially now, because nobody likes us now. There was a movie before you guys were born called The Ugly American. Came out around 1958, I think. Ever look at that, look it up: Ugly American. And it’s true as it was in past years, and it’s about, the theme of it, and the essence is, I don’t care how much we do for other people all over the world; they still don’t care about us. Be it Asian people, European, whatever. It’s what we can do for them. And in the final analysis, America will find itself alone, and it’s all of us will be in that bucket. Okay? Not just Whites, or Chinese, or Black American; all of us. And so we’ve got to find a way to come together. And I think that if African Americans in this country would come to the realization that we do have enormous power—economically, politically—if only we would use it. If we don’t sit around on our hands and just complain, but get off the duff and start working to change. Because situations just don’t change by themselves. We have to become change agents. And we haven’t done a good job of that. And then, we have not passed on what our parents and foreparents passed on to us. My generation lost—we’ve lost a generation, then that generation that we lost lost another generation. And if we’re not careful, that generation going to lose another generation. And by that I mean, I’m seventy-one years old. And over the years I’ve watched a lot of things and a lot of changes. I’m blessed to have been in a segregated society and a desegregated society. Not an integrated society, but a desegregated society. And I’ve seen change. And then, I’ve seen things





that have not changed. Okay. I wouldn’t trade today for yesterday in many ways, but in some ways I would change today for yesterday. But when I look at it, and looking at the future, I look at my grandchildren, I’m concerned about whether or not they will be able to experience what I’ve experienced. Some of the good life, and the good things of America, if we don’t get our act together politically and economically. And I think we can. We’re allowing our schools to go out of existence. The HBCUs, we’re not supporting those schools. And they have a place, a strategic place in our life. I said—two sons, our older son went to Morehouse, and then he went to some White universities. My younger son only went to the University of Florida. He only went to St. Thomas Aquinas High School. He only went to Our Lady Queen of Martyrs. Okay. So he’s always been in the environment where he was a minority. Did well. Did well and all. He’s in the Hall of Fame at Florida. Okay? And I tell some people that’s me when they say, “Dorsey Miller?” “Yeah, that’s me.” [Laughter] And I said, “You know,”—I remember when I was at Florida, I’m digressing a little bit, the one thing that I was always impressed with: Florida Blue Key. And back then, they didn’t let, didn’t have any Blacks back then in Blue Key. And then when my son was, when he was put in Blue Key, I was really happy for him. He was more happy about that than the Hall of Fame. Because he called me about that. He didn’t call me when he was in the Hall of Fame. One of his professors did. But then he brought me back and put me in Blue Key. And I was really honored about that. And I said, “You know, the good and the bad”—like when I talk about the present and the past, the things I wouldn’t change, and some things I would—I was happy to be





able to be in Blue Key, because that could open some doors for me. It’s all about networking. When I look at all of these societies, or my fraternity, whatever it is, it’s about networking. Because it’s about who you know and who knows you, and that kind of stuff, and that’s how you can make for yourself, and then for your children, whoever, family members and friends. And that’s important. But then, on the other hand, the Black experience that my son Eric had at Morehouse— and I had—is something Dorsey would never know about. My son Dorsey. He couldn’t experience it. Because everybody knew that a Black was going to be president of the student body at Morehouse. Everybody knew that a girl at Spelman is going to be Miss Maroon-and-White. So we could have our queens and so forth. And then the relationships are lifelong relationships. Your pool is so small in the integrated setting, because you have to have Black Student Union, or Black whatever it is, okay? And when you meet, you all meet. You’re an island in the midst of the ocean. But when we meet, we are the ocean—you know, your Morehouse people, your Howard people. You understand what I mean? It’s different. So that’s the kind of experience. But it’s good to have both, what was important for me is to have both, because our world now is so much different.

You need to have both experiences. But I’m glad I had that one, okay? Because it allowed me to swim in the ocean for a while. And to be a big fish out in the ocean, and not just a minnow in the lake. [Laughter] I had, my high school principal, I’ll never forget, Mr. Jones. He said to me one day, he was a little short guy. He’s over in Gainesville now, Dr. Jones. An old guy. And back in the days of segregation, they had Boys’ State and Girls’ State, but that was for Whites. But





they would go to, White kids could go to Tallahassee, and they would be governor for a day, or Speaker of the House for a day, and that kind of stuff. So what we had, we had Student Government Day. Where you could be principal for the day, and so forth. Or teaching. So I remember when I, my senior year, I was the student principal. And Mr. Jones and I were going for the bank. This is the day before I was supposed to take over. You spend a day with them, shadowing them, and the next day you supposed to take over, right? So we were going to the bank. And he said, “Dorsey?” And we had been giving Mr. Jones some problems. [Laughter] We really had. And like I say, he was a little man. He was probably only about five-four. And he said, “You know, when you get up there to Morehouse, you’re going to have a rude awakening.” We riding along. I said, “Oh yeah? What kind of rude awakening, Mr. Jones?” He said, “Well, here at Howard, you a big fish. But you just in a little pond. When you go up there, you just be a minnow in the ocean.” [Laughter] And I told him, I said, “No, sir! I’m going be a whale wherever I go.” That’s what I said to him, you know, get at his head. And now he and I are very good friends. But he was like—because I used to act, boy, we used to agitate that man something—! [Laughter] He left when we left. He only stayed teaching, said “Eh, that’s enough of this!” He left, we left. But he was a good guy, I realize now, boy. He was just trying to help us, man. But we were poor up. But the thing that we’ve got to, I think as a people, we’ve got to look at this party thing, and this party allegiance, and break off from that. Because it’s not doing us any good as a people. We can’t all be—we the only people like that. We are all one or all the other. We can’t just move all Republicans in this state to





1948, then we became all Democrats for all practical purposes. We got to have a balance. And I understand, they say the result of this last election, the Republicans this year increased their share of the black vote, from 6 to 10%.

What is that, about a 60% increase? So, you know, you keep working on that. And I’ll tell you this one last story. And that was my goal, too, when I became a Republican. I don’t know if it changed their perception of us. And I didn’t come into the party for them to change me. And I remember that, you have the Republican state executive committee, and they have the party chair, and a committee man or committee woman from each county. And they have the auxiliaries meeting with them, with the state executive. Each party. So, as president of the Black Republicans, I was invited to come to the State Executive Committee. In the [19]80s, this was in the [19]80s. And they have an agenda.

And the chairman of the party at that time was a guy by the name of Henry Sayler. He was a former state senator, and he didn’t cotton too well at that time to Blacks really being active in the party and what have you. He was not all that enthusiastic about that. But he had to accept it, so. I remember him telling me— we were meeting in Orlando—that I had five minutes when they called for reports. Because all the auxiliaries would have five minutes: the College Republicans, the Women Federation, and that kind of stuff, all had five minutes to give their reports. And I was last on the agenda. There were a hundred sixty- five people in there, all White except me. And so, when I got up, I’ll never forget: I stood next to the exit door. And when I got up, and I said this: I started out by saying—see, Ronald Reagan was president. And they were so excited about





Ronald Reagan. And they had been praising him, and talking, boy, all this good stuff. And I start out by saying that, “I don’t know where I have been during these last two years.” I said, “I must have been on another planet somewhere. After hearing all the accolades being paid to the president, and all of the great things you all are saying about him,” I said, “I just want to say to you all that I didn’t come into this party—I’ve only been in here about a year and a half—for you to change me. I came into this party to sensitize you to the needs of my people.

And perhaps, to help create a bigger tent, so that we can work within this framework. Because many things that you believe in, we believe in too.” And then I mentioned the fact that we couldn’t become Democrats until 1948 in this state, and all of that. And I said, “It took the Republican Party about sixty, seventy, eighty years to lose the black vote. And it might take us another eighty to get it back. But we must begin to do so now. But I want to tell you that Ronald Reagan, and Reaganomics, and Reaganism, are not playing very well on Main Street Black America. This is a fact.” And I went on to start talking—and they let me talk for thirty minutes. And when I finished, they gave me a standing ovation. And so then, after that, I got motivation. I said, “Well, I might as well tell you why I was standing here next to the exit door…” [Laughter] They thought that was—I said, “I had to be close to a getaway, because I knew what I was going to say might rub some of y’all wrong, and I’m in here with all of y’all by myself.” And things began to change at that point. This guy Sayler—who was not that into, you know—appointed, I call it the Committee on Inclusion. And I was vice-chair, and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, who’s now a Congresswoman from Miami, was the chair.





And Jeb Bush was a part of the committee, he was the Chairman of the Dade County Republicans then. And we all got together, and I’ll never forget: when Ileana got elected to Congress, I became chair. Okay? And I look back now, and I used to say to the former chair of the party, Alice Cognis, who’s Hispanic, I said, “We did real well. But we didn’t achieve all of our goals,” when we start talking about creating a big tent here in Florida. Because the party was moving progressively back then. We changed a lot of minds. We had over a hundred thousand Black Republicans when I went out of office as president. And now it’s dwindling again. But, we started bringing Blacks into the party. And we had more progressive-thinking Republicans. So much so that I told them, before we had that committee that was organized by Henry Sayler, we never had a female chairperson—or chairman, they called it—of the Republican Party. We’ve had two since then. We never had any Hispanics. But we’ve had one, and Alice was one of the best we ever had. But we still haven’t had a Black yet. But we moving down the road, because it’s about all of us when we created the big tent. But that can happen if we would just not put ourselves in a position—Black folks, African Americans especially—where we’re being looked upon as a done deal by any party. And that’s what I want to spend these, whatever time I have left, working to bring that about if I can in the state of Florida. So that’s what I’ve been working on.

	D:	So what caused that shift, if you don’t mind me asking, from Republican to Independent. What was it that ultimately caused your shift to Independent?





	DM:	From Republican? Well, I was very close to the Bushes. And Jeb Bush had appointed me to the Board of Commissioners of the North Broward Hospital District, which is a very powerful board in Broward County. It runs all of the— they’ve got two, we’re the only county organized by charter to have districts, hospital districts. You got the north and the south. And both of these districts, I guess, combined, have about a three billion dollar budget, annual budget. We combined for like twenty thousand employees. Well, my district, at that time, the larger of the two, was highly politicized. There’s seven member board, and I became chairman in 2004, I think—200]3 or [200]4, there’s seven on the board— and started making changes in the complexion of the administrative organization chart. And started making changes as related to opportunities for minorities to get business with the district. It’s the third largest entity; after the school board and the county government, it’s the third-largest entity in Broward. So, then, there were some things that were done—I was able to get, I should say, Dr. Snipes, in as Supervisor of Elections when another group wanted some other person in there. I was a member of the electoral college. And I was the only person from Broward. And that didn’t sit well with some of them. Okay? I was invited—I don’t know if this was the straw, or something else—but I was invited to quite a few affairs at the White House, right? And on one particular occasion, my wife and I were invited to a dinner. It was on a Sunday night, after George Bush’s—second George Bush’s second election. November 2004, whenever it was. And there were about seventy-five people at this dinner. And there were five Blacks. My wife and I, a guy who was Lieutenant Governor of Maryland, he was chairman of





Republican—Steele, and his wife. And then there was a Haitian lady, she’s a good friend, she lives out from Miami. And the next night, they had a dinner at the White House, I’m told, and—somewhere up there—and they had about nine hundred people or whatever. And these were those guys who would raise a million dollars, or two hundred fifty—whatever, thousands. They were called, they had the name “Eagles” or something. All right? When I got back from Ft.

Lauderdale, the president had a series of dinners that we—there were some wanted to know how did I get invited to the dinner that only had seventy-five people. And it was a closed dinner. And I said, “I don’t know, I didn’t invite myself.” Some wanted to know how I get to be a member of the electoral college. I didn’t elect myself. Some were angry about some appointments that were made that they felt should have gone another way. And they were some guys who put in a little honey in the pot. And then, some were angry about the changes in the complexion of our organizational chart. And so, some were angry about contracts, say they felt they needed 100% of the money, still had to go one way, rather than to have diversity. So there were these issues. And they grew and grew and grew. And so, they started charging me with some criminal activities, with some of my clients, I’m a consultant, I have a consulting firm. And they, this thing went on for about three years. Investigations, State Attorney investigation. And took it to the Grand Jury, the Grand Jury cleared me. Because I had done absolutely nothing. I always got this pain. But it was a harrowing experience. A year after I was cleared—this was in 2006—I found out who was behind it. And it was some guys I had been working with for years in the Republican Party. Very





closely. And I made the decision, I didn’t want to keep that kind of company anymore. Other than that, I’d have still been a Republican. But I had that personal experience. It hurt me tremendously to find out that they had tried to destroy me. You know, for stuff like that. So that’s why. No other reason. I would still been there fighting, and going against the—and I’ve always been a person who would support candidates. And I probably—well, not probably, I supported more Democrats in Broward County than I did Republicans. Because that’s where my interests were, the interests of my community were more represented by Democrats than Republicans. So I would go with—I was with Charlie Crist when he was a Republican. For governor. And I was with him when he was a Democrat. But, so it doesn’t matter. I don’t care about no party. The party came into play if I didn’t know you—if I didn’t know the two candidates, then I’d vote for my party. You know. Unless you was just downright opposite of something I firmly believed in. But like George Wallace said, it’s really not a dime worth of difference. [Laughter] Because, you know, he said, you look at it, it’s just degrees, man. They all got the same goal. It’s all about guy getting to arguing about money coming to this state, but he want all the money in the world to come to his state. He want to build this bridge in his state, but he’ll get you giving money, the public’s money, in your state. You know. No, it’s the same! You know, if you look at it. These guys be up there talking—you know, one of the greatest friendships that I can recall in modern times in politics was the friendship between Ronald Reagan and Tip O’Neill. You would think they would be so far apart, but they were golfing buddies and everything else. Probably played poker





together and whatever else. You know? But out there, you know, it was a different phase from back here, then. And so, you know, if we just could just put the interests of us—whatever “us” is, if it’s the university, if it’s the city, the county, the state, or the country—put that before our own individual interests, we’d be far better off. But we got a whole lot of selfish people now representing us in politics and everywhere else. And how can a man who can spend twenty- two million this year, seventy-seven million four years ago, on his campaign, say he cringes when somebody says that people need more than seven dollars and fifty cents an hour to live? I mean, come on! What can you get with seven dollars and fifty cents an hour? Because you got to pay the same thing for food, same thing for groceries, clothes, and everything else, man. That’s ridiculous, to even make a statement like that. That’s what Rick Scott says. It’s the insensitivity of that man. Nobody’s all bad. There’s some good in all of us, but this guy, man. I’ll tell you. But hopefully he’ll be better this time around, maybe. Maybe there’s some real good in him somewhere. But I don’t know. But that’s just—and I just see America, I’m just fearful as I see where this country’s going. And I’m fearful for the young people like you all because I don’t know what you guys, what kind of country you going to inherit, when everybody seemingly hates us. I mean, everybody. You go out of this country, and you put us on a stage with some people from other places, and invariably, people will choose those people. Look at the United Nations. There was a time the United Nations did everything we wanted them to do. And now, we can’t get anything out of the United Nations.

Just look at it. They vote against us on just about everything—we on the wrong





side of the majority on just about every issue. And that used to be where Russia was, or China, or whatever. Chinese are well-loved. Chinese down in the Bahamas, man! They about to take over the Bahamas. You know, jobs, money, I mean—and they don’t mean those people any good. Because they looking out for China. They about to take over Africa. And see, and strategically, they’re making moves, man, that we used to make. But you got to go in and deal good will, see? You can’t go in and just throw money at it. You got to get down in the dirt with the people. The Chinese will do that. They’ll bring money and hands for dirt. See, we just think we can throw them some money. And people see that as just exploitation. Now, the Chinese exploiting, too! But they also down there digging dirt with you. So they see that differently. And that’s, I don’t understand. It’s just simple to me, things we could be doing. But hopefully, we’ll get some wiser leaders soon, and they can come together and make us what we ought to be, and keep us like we ought to be. Just like the oil situation now. Why gas prices are down right now, and everything’s impacted by oil. Things are dropping. But then the rich boys will hold up ships, keep ships from coming in to port. Now they probably going to stop. They reducing production in this country because they got the prices, and the prices go back up. It’s all about the money. It could be about money, could be about quality of life, and be about trying to uplift—to me, if you uplift the bottom, you rise too, don’t you? I mean, I’ve never seen anything that was picked up from the bottom, that which was up top didn’t rise. I mean, I just never seen that. If you could show me something, you know. But I’ve





never seen that. So, but I don’t know. But I haven’t given up. Because you can’t give up. You all have children yet?

	RM:	No.



	D:	Unh-uh.



	DM:	See, when you get children, and especially grandchildren, things change. Your whole outlook and perception changes, when you get children. Yeah, you think about a lot of things differently then. You see the world with different eyes. It’s not the same. It’s just not the same. And that’s why I’m so committed to, still at this age, still trying to do some things. Because some people say to me, “You still— you ought to sit your behind down.” That what my wife tells me. [Laughter] “And do this and that,” and all. But I just can’t. I can’t. Can’t do it. Because I got to look out for Andrew. He’s only two years old. And then I got Christopher, who’s five, and I got Dorsey the IV, who’s nine, and India, who’s nine, and Eric, Jr., who’s sixteen. I can’t. I can’t sit my old behind down. Got to keep on working, so their futures can be at least what mine was, if not better. Certainly don’t want them to be worse! You know. And then I got to look at you, and look at you. You know.

Because this is, to me—I got to say, with all the faults I’ve seen, it’s still the greatest country in the world. It’s a great country. Great country. And this is a great state. And you got a lot of good people. You know, if you travel around, you find good people, man. Even during the days of segregation, when we had the divisiveness; when we had opportunities to get together—young people especially—it was good. We interacted well together. Did well together. And we had some good people. I mean, one of my very closest supporters while I was





here in Ocala was a White man that was despised by most Blacks. But he was all right with me. And when I needed help, I knew I could go to him. Funny guy. He was something else. But, you find that to be true. If you leave, for the most part, people left alone are not people fanning up things and what have you, trying to create—usually, you can get along together. Until people start pointing out differences. And that’s when we have a problem.

D:  I was wondering, too, then, when you left Ocala, and went to South Florida, did you maintain activity in some of those organizations, like the NAACP and some of the others?

	DM:	Yep. Yep, yep, when I went down there—in fact, one of the reasons I didn’t stay in Tampa, see, I left here and went to Tampa, and didn’t put up my tent there, is because I got too active with the NAACP over there. And then I got blackballed from some jobs because of the people I was associated with in the Movement. And so, when I went to Ft. Lauderdale, I took a different approach. And I got down there, I had a master’s degree, I had been an assistant to the principal here at Howard. And he took me and tried to make me an official assistant principal, and they made him the assistant principal. They busted him because he was associated with me. But anyway, when I got down there, I couldn’t get a job even as a substitute. Because I didn’t have my certificate yet. And I was a custodian. I worked with my best friend, who was an assistant head custodian of the school, and helped set up the school and all that for about two months, then I started subbing. Then I got a job as a guidance counselor, and then I got to be an administrator within about two years. And then started moving up and what have





you. But I joined, I was on the first Board of the Urban League, and I was on the Board of Directors of the NAACP, I was one of the founding members of the Kiwanis Club of central Broward, when they started letting Blacks into the Kiwanis and what have you. And joined about—did I join? I was on everything, I was on the board of YMCA, I was on the board of Big Brothers and Big Sisters. In fact, I got my foster son, he was my Little Brother when he was ten. That’s been thirty-seven years ago. And, I mean, everything, yeah, a lot of things down there. Some of everything you can think of. Yeah.

	D:	What sorts of activities in Tampa then were you all involved in that got you fired?



	DM:	Well, here again, just challenging some of the stuff that was going on down there that was not fair to Blacks and what have you. And the NAACP down there was very active. There was a guy who was out on the—he was a fraternity brother of mine. He was a warrant officer, Chief Warrant Officer out at MacDill. He was very active in NAACP, but he wasn’t well-liked by the White power structure. He and I got to be very close. And I was trying to get the job down there, doors were closed because I was with him. Protesting different things—you know, vocally speaking out. That’s all. We wasn’t throwing no Molotov cocktails and nothing like that. No, no kind of violence. I was always against that. But just speaking out. Just saying “What you doing is wrong, to us.” And for that, you know, “Oh, he’s a rabble-rouser. We don’t need him around here.” That’s all. But, always been really, really active out there. Just always enjoyed it. Yeah, like my brother always tells me, he said if I don’t have a need now, I’ll make up one. [Laughter] But I’ve been very, very active in my fraternity for years. Fifty-some odd years.





And it’s been a great network for me. So when I went down there—I was there for about a little over a year, and I got to be Basileus, or the chapter president. After being there a year. And then, by working, became the state president. And the district, which is four states. And then became, in 1994, the national president. Grand Basileus, we call it. And that’s a network, that’s another thing— fraternities and sororities, and I’ve been saying a long time that—like I told Charlie Crist, I said, “What you need to do, you need to meet with the state presidents of the nine, what we call Divine Nine, the Greek letter organizations. The five Black fraternities and the four Black sororities.” I said, because we have, I guess, if you include all of us, we must have about two hundred chapters in this state. And that’s a built-in network. And like with the Deltas—Delta Sigma Theta—AKAs and whatever, they have some chapters with three or four hundred people in it. Our largest chapter in Omega Psi Phi, we have probably a hundred and some-odd. We have about forty-some chapters, all around. Then you got chapters on like every university campus and all of that, and what have you. And so that’s a built-in network that you can use. And I said the thing to do, if we could have a luncheon with those nine people. And I talked with some of the state presidents. And then I said, “We have two former national presidents—or, international presidents—for Alpha Kappa Alpha, AKA, one in Tampa, one in Jacksonville. You have the president, international president of Delta Sigma Theta in Tampa. And I’m a former national president of Omega. You got us to work with you. Man, that’s a—you talk about turning out the Black vote! I mean, these people saying it through they network, telling their chapter members to go





out there and get other chapter members. You know. And we got, everybody who’s just about anybody in the black community belongs to one of those groups. You know? You got family members that belong to one of those groups. So it’s an automatic win!” Just wouldn’t listen! I did a plan for him, and just wouldn’t listen. You know, that’s another problem that I see in both the Democratic and Republican party. My experience has been, that they think, the powers that be in both parties, feel that they know better how to turn out the Black vote, than those of us who are actually Black. And we have an organization in Broward County called Operation Big Vote. We started twenty years ago, when Alcee Hastings— you’ve heard of Congressman Hastings, Alcee Hastings? When he was running the first time, they didn’t give him a chance. But we organized Operation Big Vote, we turned out the Black vote bigtime. And he won. And we can turn out the vote. We know how to do it. We had pep rallies, we had motorcades through the community. We organized the county into three areas, and then each area had two regions. Like northeast and northwest Broward, central east, central west, southeast, southwest, and then each county, each region, had so many cities in it. Like up northwest, you have—northeast you have Deerfield and Pompano Beach, and where I live, out west, northwest, you have Coral Springs, and Parkland, and some of those other cities out there. Margate and so forth. And then you divided the cities into precincts. Because there are 576 precincts in Broward County. And what we looked at, we looked at, well, you’ve got seventy- one precincts where you have at least a thousand Black voters at each of those precincts. And those seventy-one precincts, we had 171,000 registered Black





voters. See, Broward County has 244,000 Black registered voters. And I bet we didn’t get a hundred out. You see what I’m saying? In fact, in the primary, only 5% of blacks, we got 1.2, [1.]3 million Blacks in the state. Only 5% voted in the primary. Five percent! Five percent! Come on, now! And we trying to give you a plan how we can get them out. We know how to get ‘em out. And then we were going to utilize, we have forty Black elected officials in Broward County. From the city, to the county, school board, state House, and Congress. And so what we were saying, what I said, “We want to use these Black representatives in your radio ads.” Okay? Because if I’m Hayward Benson, and I’m a commissioner in Lauderhill, and I tell my constituents in Lauderhill that “This is Commissioner Hayward Benson, and I’m urging you to go out and vote during early vote—don’t wait ‘til the last day, don’t wait ‘til the fourth. Go out and vote now. Support me and my efforts to get you out, my people. You talking to me.” You know, like [inaudible 1:51:46]. My sister and law and them, the Samuels. “I want y’all to go out!” You know the Samuels. Okay? I could less than a damn about Jesse Jackson, or Al Sharpton on the radio. Or Clinton. Those people. But this is somebody who I know is calling me. If it’s Alcee, “Hey, Dorsey, this is Al.” Do a robo-call: “Hey man, I want you to go out and vote. The elections start on Tuesday. Do me that favor, man. Love you, man.” That’s Al! That’s Al on the phone! Al told me to go out! You know? [Laughter] I mean, just something else they will understand. You know? “Oh, Al, Al called me, man!” “Alcee called me, man!” You know. You sit up there in Lauderdale Lakes. Barrington, the mayor. “Barrington called me! Barrington Russell!” “The mayor called?” “Yeah, man. Got





a call, and he told me to go out and vote, man!” You know? But Al—somebody, Jesse, they say, “Oh, man, that’s one of those calls from up there in Washington, D.C., man. Jesse Jackson don’t know your ass.” This is what I was talking. I had Bill Cosby to make some ads, radio ads for him. And then he didn’t use them. Bill called me election night. Wanted to know how the ads were going. He said they was using them in Louisiana, that’s helping that lady, she’s in the runoff. I was going to get Shaquille O’Neill. See, all these guys fraternity brothers of mine. And I said, I’ll get Shaquille, Alonzo Mourning. See, that’s the network. I can use my own network in Omega to help. Alcee is a Kappa, he can use the Kappa network. You know. Use the Alpha network. You know, you got—I mean, it’s just a simple thing. And then we had the ministers. I’m real close to the ministers. And they didn’t do the so-called “souls to the polls” thing. They wait until the Sunday before the election day. I said, “You can’t wait ‘til then!” I said, “If you got ‘souls to the polls,’ you say, for two weeks.” The week before it starts, have the pastors mobilizing their people to go to vote. They can come on to the church—“Meet me at church Monday, the same day it starts.” I got, my church has eleven thousand members. Okay? And my pastor said, “Hey, we going to have a roaring good time. Come out to the church, we’re going to have some refreshments, and we’re going to have a prayer meeting for a minute, and then we going on to vote. All of us can go and vote at the library downtown. We can go to the African American library.” Because you can vote at any one of these twenty polling places during the early voting. Can’t do that on election day, because you got to go to your polling place. You got five hundred-some of them. You know? So, I said, “This is





what we need to do.” Didn’t do it. Then we had a big rally. The vice president came that Sunday before. Ninety percent of the people there, about a thousand or more people had already voted. So what you going to march to the polls, when you already voted? That’s stupid! [Laughter] I mean, I’m just sitting there, I’m saying, “Oh my God, I don’t believe this!” And then you lose by 1%. Because you don’t listen. And I worked really hard this time trying to do some things. We had a meeting, and this is the month we had the Florida Classic, when Bethune- Cookman plays Florida A&M. We had a meeting last year, and we tried to mobilize the state. We called it Network 2014. We put together a plan for the whole state. And we want someone in every county in this state to be a liaison for information dissemination. And encouraging people to go out and organize. We did it for Jeb, and did a great job for him in 2000, I think it was. His second term. And there were four of us. We had car, we went to seventeen counties. And Blacks who were, you know, anti-Republican, still came out and met with us, and we won some of them over in the panhandle area. Really, from Madison all the way on out Pensacola. From Jasper—wherever it is, right up there. And it worked. And then I told, I remember Jeb’s people didn’t want—I said, “You ought to meet, you got a group of twenty-six black newspapers in this state. They got two different organizations. Let’s meet with those two organizations.” I say, “I need Jeb to be there to sit down and talk with these people. Because the goals should be twofold: one, get as many as we can to endorse, which they may or may not—but if we can get them where they don’t endorse either candidate, that’s still an endorsement for us.” [Laughter] They didn’t want to do it. So I went





to Jeb himself. We met at the Embassy Suites right there in Orlando. [inaudible 1:57:36]. We had fourteen of them represent, and they brought some of their people. And when Jeb walked in, I remember he had on his coat and tie and everything, you could cut the air. It was so much adversity in there, you could cut it with a knife. By the end of the day, ties off, coats off, people sitting up, shaking hands, want to take pictures with the Governor, they were shaking his hand. [Laughter] And most of those newspapers endorsed him that year. And a lot of them didn’t endorse anybody. You see? That’s all you got to do; it’s just easy!

Talking to—we had a lunch for him. See, because Blacks were supposed to be— he issued an Executive Order, and it was supposed to be anti-Affirmative Action, so his name was mud in the Black community. So his people, some of his handlers, didn’t want him to come up, do some things I wanted him to do. But I got another young lady who was well-respected in his camp and everything. We put on a lunch at the Rosen Plaza in Orlando? We had about a thousand Black people there. They had never seen that many Black people come to a political function anywhere in this state. And this was Republicans for Jeb Bush. When he came, his eyes popped! [Laughter] It was something to see. I mean, I wish you could have seen all them tables out there. They come to see him. I got a picture we took together, where he was hugging me so, he had a look on his face of pure ecstasy. [Laughter] It was on the front page of the Orlando Sentinel. I said, “If we didn’t know better, we’d think something was going wrong here, wouldn’t we?” That look he had on his face was pure joy. Because it was something to see. And all you got to do is to make people feel that you care about them, and





you’re genuine. And don’t be standoffish. And don’t be afraid. Because we are a forgiving people. You could beat us all up, and hit us all up and everything, and we’ll forgive you. We’ll give you one more chance. Because that’s what God say to do. “Jesus say, do that! We going do what Jesus say.” [Laughter] And I’m just saying, that’s us. And it’s hard to get that old. And you don’t have to spend as much money. You take one of those, two of those TV ads would have paid for all that we wanted to do for the whole campaign. Two of them negative ads that was turning everybody off. Come on, give us some of the, on the radio, let’s have our people, those forty people, tell the people to go out to vote. It would’ve done wonders. I know it works. Because it worked against me when I ran for office. [Laughter] That’s what they did to me. And it worked, boy! They tore my behind up! I was leading in the polls. They did a poll—I was running as a Republican, 1982, for the state House. And since I had been a Democrat, everybody knew me. And the guy who ran against me was little-known, but he was just a Democrat. They was just going vote for the D. But they did a poll, and I was leading in the poll. And the district was 82% Democrat. And they got all the Black elected officials, and they got some of the prominent Blacks in the community, and they were urging the people to just go out and vote Democrat. Say, “Don’t look at the name! Vote Democrat!” “This is Kathleen Wright. Vote Democrat!” “This is Boise Waders. I want you go vote Democrat!” And I was standing on the corner, Sunrise and 31st Avenue, I’ll never forget. The day of the election. This Black guy and his family, they were going to vote. And they say, he says, “Son, you Dorsey Miller?” I say, “Yes, sir.” He say, “I’m going to vote for you.” He say,





“Oh, by the way—I know I don’t need to ask you this—you Democrat, aren’t you?” I said, “No, sir.” He said, “Oh, no! No, I can’t vote for you, man!” I swear to God, that happened to me. He told me, and—they told him to vote Democrat.

That’s all you had to say. They don’t care who name on there. Could be Godzilla’s name. [Laughter] “Vote Democrat!” And that’s all you have to say! So you take a minute ad, and you got ten people telling you—Commissioner this, Councilman this, Councilwoman this—just “Vote Democrat,” “Vote Dem”—And that’s all they, just “I’m vote Democrat, just vote Democrat.” And they don’t know. They just vote Democrat. But they go. So, you know, it’s sad. Charlie could have won this thing.

	D:	I got a question. And so, in the [19]60s, a lot of times we hear about the desegregation of lunch counters, and desegregation of different buildings, but how did that relate then to these local elections, in terms of getting local officials, and how much was that an effort of these organizations that you all had?

	DM:	Well see, what happened, you know, once we desegregated the lunch counters,



then we had to fight for the right to vote. Okay?



[Brief exchange about stopping the tape for a break at 2:02:34]



	DM:	Desegregation of the lunch counters. See, the desegregation of the lunch counters led to us doing those other things, like voting rights. That was the important thing. That and economic situation. Because, you know, in some places, they had poll taxes, they had literacy tests you had to take before you could vote. They had all kinds of ways of stopping us from voting. All right. And then, downright intimidation, too. And so, that was a precursor to going to voting.





And that’s how the impact, that’s the transference of that, gave us the impetus to get the Voting Rights Act. And you know, if you looked at history, during the Reconstruction period, we were doing well then, too, but we was being manipulated, because of the fact that the Northerners were electing Blacks to Congress, and even had a couple of U.S. Senators and all this kind of stuff, but the control. We had a Black sheriff of Marion County back in the day. Okay? And then, when the Jim Crow came into existence and what have you, and the rise of the Ku Klux Klan and those types of organizations, then that fear and intimidation were used to stop us from voting. And they were killing officeholders who were Blacks and what have you, so forth and so on. So, as we look at this voting thing, a lot of Blacks really just don’t understand what it took to get us where we could have the right to vote. And they just don’t understand how precious that right is, and the sacrifices that were made. Blood, sweat, tears, and lives. Just to vote! I heard the story some time ago about this Black guy in Mississippi who had gone off to Harvard, and he got his degree, and he came home to Mississippi. And he told his family members that he was going down to register to vote. He was going to be the first Black in that county to go and vote. And they said, “Okay.” So he had to take the test. So the guy who gave the test was a third grade dropout. And he told this young Black man, he said, “Okay, young fellow. So you’ve come here to vote.” Say, “Yes sir, I’ve come to vote.” “Well, you know you got to take a test, don’t you?” “Yes sir.” “And I’m the clerk.” He didn’t know how to spell “clerk,” but he was the clerk. Said, “Okay.” “Well, first of all, we got to find out if you can see well. Course, seeing on that ballot, you got to be able to see the different things





on the ballot. So I want you to read the top line of this chart.” And he put up a blank chart. “I don’t see nothing.” So he wrote down, “Can’t see.” So, he said, “All right, didn’t do well on that one. Let’s see if you can write. Got to be able to write. I want you to sign your name on this sheet of paper here.” So he gave him a pen with no ink in it. “I can’t write with this!” So he wrote down, “Can’t write.” “Young fellow, you having a rough time!” “I can write. I’m a Harvard University graduate.” He said, “Well, you couldn’t write here today. Can’t see. I tell you what, I’m gonna do you a favor, even though you failed these first two tests. If you can read,” he said, “I’ll let you go on and vote.” “I can read, sir. I have a degree from Harvard University, and it’s in English. And I can read extremely well. Anything you give me, I can read.” So he said, “Okay, I want you to read the headlines on this newspaper.” So he gave him a newspaper written in Chinese. And he said, “I can’t read this!” [Laughter] So, this old clerk took the paper, said, “You got a degree from Harvard University, and I’m a third grade dropout, and I can read the headline here. See, here in big bold letters, say, ‘There Will Be No Blacks Voting In Mississippi Today.’” [Laughter] So they used all kinds of tricks and everything else to keep us from voting back in the day. All right? And that’s why it’s so important now that we have that right, to go ahead and exercise that right. And you know, if you sit back and you don’t vote, you have no right to complain. And the President said the other day, that two-thirds of the people in this country didn’t vote on Election Day. That is a sad commentary to America. So, one-third of the voters, and probably about sixty percent of the voters elected the President—voted for the President. And you take only a portion of that. So, you





can look at maybe 35% of the people elected President. So you have to take what you get. And that’s why it’s very, very important.

	RM:	Were you raised with an ethic about voting? Or did people—did teachers at Howard, or did your grandparents talk about it at all?

	DM:	Well, to be honest with you, yes and no. Not my grandparents or anything, but I kind of encouraged them. Now, my grandfather was a Republican back then.

Because he came down here from Indiana. Somewhere up in there—Ohio. So, he was a Republican. So he knew about voting. He was into voting. But in 1960, we had a mock election, presidential election at Howard. And I’ll never forget—it was a debate. And I debated, I was representing Richard Nixon. And guy who was representing, this guy Ruby Jones was representing John F. Kennedy. And then we had an election: Richard Nixon won, in my school that year. So, I got involved very early with the voting. I’ve been—and I always liked history and Social Studies and all that kind of stuff, so I was just motivated. I couldn’t wait to register to vote. Soon as I was able to register, I went and registered. And it was a big thing for us back then. Most of my classmates, when they turned eighteen and they could register, they went and registered. Because it was a big thing, to be able to vote! It was a novelty. Because, a lot of places, you couldn’t vote. See, back then, in Mississippi, they were still doing some horrible things to us back then. When I was in high school. So we were highly motivated, because, unlike the kids of today, they don’t see it as being much of anything. You know, it’s always something that they can’t understand. Like, my sons can’t understand.

And my grandchildren—I talk to them, sometimes. How we went to the back





door. It was just accepted. I mean, it was a way of life! I mean, you didn’t question. You know, if you couldn’t stop at the gas station and use the restroom, or if you couldn’t sleep in the motel on the highway, or a hotel in the city—if you couldn’t go down to the Marion Hotel and sit down in the lounge, and have a drink; it was just understood. You just never bothered it. You know. We couldn’t—the thing that used to excite me: when we’d be getting ready to leave New York, coming to Ocala, going from Ocala back to New York, putting my box together. Shoebox that we put our food in. Chicken, you know? Corn bread and stuff, you know? Have a good time! Have a picnic! [Laughter] Put your picnic box on the train. You know? We didn’t worry about the fact that we couldn’t go into the dining car until we got north of Washington. You know, you could have the porter bring you cold cuts, soda, something like that. But it was just a way of life, so you just said—now, for me, when I came from New York down to move down here, it was hard to adjust at first. I mean, I was almost attacked on a bus coming from Miami. And I couldn’t have been more than twelve. And like any young kid, when I got on the bus, I jumped up behind the driver. I was in the seat behind the driver. And this old drunk White guy came in there, and he was cussing me out, telling me to get my Black so-and-so back in the back and all that kind of stuff.

And the bus driver stopped him. But he was, I guess, going to get me or whatever. But the bus driver did talk to me. And said, “Son, let me take you back here to a seat. It’s where you need to sit, okay?” Took me to the back. So, it was just a way of life. And you didn’t question it. But once it started, see—and that’s what they knew—so, the sit-ins, the bus rides, the freedom rides, and that kind of





stuff, the powers-that-be that were against desegregation knew what was going to happen. And so that’s why they fought so hard to keep those things from happening. But history was on our side. The time had come. And we just happened to be the generation to do it. You know, you give a man a taste of it, and then you had a lot of people coming back from the North who’ve been up there, experienced some things and what have you, and so they were determined to make things right and done. And so—and it got to the point, to be honest with you, where it was worth dying for. Where you really didn’t think about dying. You really didn’t. You weren’t afraid. I mean, I get scared now, when I think about some of the stuff I did here, some of the places I went, going out when people were complaining about being mistreated, along with a guy named Eugene Poole, get in our cars and go out into these woods to meet with these people and everything. And, but I never even thought, never thought about it. It’s just, “We going.” And, did some things that, you know, just by God’s grace still here. Could’ve been gone, and nothing would’ve been said or done about it.

That’s the sad part about it. Whatever they would do to us back in those days was accepted. They had a sheriff down here in Lake County—I was talking to my [inaudible 2:15:05] other stuff, and we went down to Villages, and we were on our way back, and I said, “One of the worst human beings in history was Willis McCall, sheriff of Lake County.” He killed quite a few Blacks. Take them out, tell them he going let them go, and tell them to run, and shoot them in the back and everything. Say they were trying to escape. Terrible man. And I said, “How can a human being treat another human being like this?” But, that’s the way it was.





And, you know, it just, perhaps, if we all were male, would’ve no problem. All female, there wouldn’t have been no problem. But, what I believe, was and is, and will always be, the fear of the White man, is the fact that one day, in the far future, there will be no Black and White. You know, because—he’s not Black. [Indicates D] You understand what I’m saying?

	RM:	Yeah. Yeah.



	DM:	So, that’s the fear. Look at the three shades we got. See, we going go from here, to—no, can’t go from here. [Laughter] Here and here, to this. You see? So, you go from here to this. And that’s what’s, that’s the fear. And it’s amazing how that would be—and I always think back to Richard, and to Nicholas, and to Edward, and to Douglas: how we were so together, and yet so different. And we never even discussed race. I mean, we could call each other anything, you know?

Because all of us had nicknames as racial people. But, we never did get into any of that kind of stuff. That was my man, that’s my tight guy! And then when I went to college, and I came back to Brooklyn, I went by to see Richard, who was my best friend. When his mother peeped through that peephole, I heard it like to be a hundred locks going: clack-clack-clack-clack-clack-clack-clack. And then she say, “Go away! Go away!” She didn’t recognize me. She was scared. And I used to stay at her house all the time. When I was little, you know. I went back to see him, and that was the last trip I made to try to attempt to see him. I found out where he was. But I often think about him. It was something. We found five of us that different, and yet so much alike. I mean, we were partners! So. And that’s the America that I thought we were—but you know, I see us now, we’re making





giant steps backwards, now. This thing is getting to be pretty tough now. Schools are resegregated, communities are resegregated. We allow hate groups to fester among us from all sides. You got Black hate groups, White hate groups, Asian hate groups—you know, we all just hate, hate, hate. And the majority of us, we just sit back and let them fester and thrive, without saying or doing anything.

Which is bad, I think, for this country. And what’s bad for America is bad for the world right now. It might not always be that way. But right now, that’s the way it is, because everything revolves around us. But, I don’t know. How is that at the University of Florida, now, the racial environment?

RM & D:  [Laughter] D:  Still crazy.

DM:  Still?



	D:	Yeah. They had a blackface incident a couple years ago now. DM:	They had what, now?

	D:	A blackface incident. For Halloween, some White students dressed up in blackface, went to the—

	DM:	When was that? D:	2012, maybe? DM:	Really?

	D:	Yep. And they caused this huge commotion on campus. University didn’t really want to do anything about it. They argued, they didn’t want to step in because people might argue that it’s free speech, and sue the university for trying to do something. So, we pushed them to turn Afro-American Studies into an





undergraduate degree. But of course, that became unfunded. [Laughter] So, you got a degree, but you ain’t got no teachers to teach it. [Laughter] So, there’s that issue of trying to push the university to do some things, but it’s still in the same situation it was, yeah.

	DM:	The more things change, the more they remain the same. You see, the commitment has to come from the top, though. And change has to come from the top. If not, it’s going come from the bottom. See, when it comes from the top, you have a transition. When it comes from the bottom, you have a revolution. And usually, chaos. Because you must have chaos before order. They don’t understand. They don’t understand! I mean, it’s, since the beginning of time, I guess, they haven’t understood. But what did Louis the XIV say? He said, he had his wife up there, and he said, “If people want bread, you give them cake.” [Laughter] “Let them eat cake.” I saw a little thing, once. You know, we used to get, what they call it, the Weekly Reader? I was a kid—this is back in the day when the Cold War was really in its heights. When we were really thinking the Russians were going to come over here every day, and they thought we were going to be coming over there every day. And they had this thing, one of the Russian satellite countries, this guy wrote a letter to Kruschev or somebody, and said, “Dear Comrade Kruschev—the people are starving. Please send food.” And Kruschev wrote back, “Tighten belts.” And then Comrade wrote back, “Please send belts.” [Laughter] So, that’s the way. And then, after you—the next day is what? Revolution. The people, they ain’t even got no belts, then the next time you got a revolution on your hands. And it just seems to me, that we aren’t good





students of history. We just aren’t. We don’t, we aren’t good students of history. Now, we can see how great societies and great civilizations have fallen. And all of them have the same thing in common, it’s from internal decay. It’s not from the outside, so much as internal decay. Because, the things that’s got us where we were and where we are still exist, but there’s an inward type of decay that takes place. And our society’s breaking down. Now, we see this, and yet we keep heading that way? And I just don’t know. Now—Florida’s getting a new president, right?

	D:	Mmhm.



	DM:	I’ll tell you who I liked. Lombardi. My wife and I were on an advisory council that they had, they used to have. Like a presidential advisory council? And this was, oh, boy—been some years ago, about twelve years or more ago. Because my son was a freshman the first year when we were put on that council. And there was another couple from Jacksonville, Black couple, but we were the first two ever to be put on—Blacks—ever to be put on the council. But, he was down to earth with us. And if he wasn’t listening, it seemed as though he was. Okay? And every year, we’d have two or three dinners, where we’d meet and interact, so forth, and give input about what we saw as some of the issues that need to be dealt with, and how they could be dealt with, as concerned parents. Parents, period. Because we were all parents, it was called the Parent Something-or- other, I don’t remember what it was. And, he used to ride around campus in a truck. Because I remember one day, my wife and I were coming from somewhere, and he was pulling up, and he blew at us, and he got out the truck,





and I wanted to say, “Who this in this truck?” Wasn’t a new truck, either. And it was him. I said, “That the president riding around—!” You know. [Laughter] But, it made us feel a part, like we were a part of the university. I felt closer to Florida than I had ever felt before. And that hasn’t always been the case. I got a call last night about the directory they’re doing. And I went on and ordered it up, because—but I said, this morning I woke up and I said, “God, I wouldn’t have spent that on that directory if I’d had a second thought.” I said, “I got to start saying, ‘Let me think about it’ in the future.” And then I start thinking this morning that the university was pretty good to me when I went, so that’s a donation. I paid my lifetime membership for the alumni association. But I have not done anything with Blue Key or none of that kind of stuff over the years. And it’s not a one-way street when it comes to faults. You know? I think more of us need to get involved, in alumni association and everything else. So you can have some input. And my experience has been, that when you do participate, that people who have differences—be they religious, be they cultural, color, whatever—they’re more able to bond, develop relationships, and that’s how you can change things. Well, you go into a high school, middle school, cafeteria at lunchtime, group over here, one group over there. Then you come back together and go to class. [Laughter] I look at that, and I say, “This is amazing! This is amazing.” I could be a new student, but when I come in, I’m going all the way over here. You go all the way over there. But what we don’t have, and what used to work, I think: we used to have—because I was in a group at Florida while I was there—sensitivity groups, they called them something else too, I’ve forgotten what they used to call them.





But it was assistant to the group. And that’s how I got to know Dr. Carter, Travis Carter, so well. And it was enjoyable. Because I remember when I first went into class, I didn’t want nobody touching me. I was—there was another one who was White, didn’t want nobody touching her. In other words, she didn’t want me touching her, and I didn’t want her touching me. [Laughter] But before the class was over, we were very good friends. And when people can get to know each other, you know. And we don’t really have enough opportunities, I don’t think, for kids to really get to know each other. First of all, our doggone high schools are too big, our middle schools are too big, and our elementary schools are too big. And we get where it’s just like an assembly line. We just want to get them in and get them out. Get them in—so, the whole child is not developed. Whether you can pass this test or not, and if you can pass it, you gone. I don’t know you, you don’t know me, I don’t know nothing more about life, you don’t know any more about life than when you came here. All of those ideas are formed outside of the school setting. And they are not shaped where they should be, in my opinion.

Because in a time when the family’s too busy, and nobody sits at the table—we don’t even need these dining room tables and things like that, because who sits there? Like I told my wife, we don’t even need a living room, I told her, in my house, because nobody ever sits on the couch. And my dining room is a set room in itself. Nobody ever goes in there. I go in there when I’m doing my walks, sometimes. I walk through the house, you know, do my little exercise. That’s the only time I use it. [Laughter] I say, “This is a shame! We don’t need this, that’s a waste of money, the living room is a waste of money.” Yeah, we don’t have time





for each other like we used to. We used to sit around the table when I was growing up. Grandmomma, Granddaddy, my cousin, my aunt. And we’d talk about different things. Used to enjoy it. But now? You could be way over there, and you could be at the computer over there, doing the computer. My wife stays on her iPhone. We don’t talk hardly at all. She just constantly on that iPhone, playing her games. I mean, all that! I say, “Did you see that?” “Huh?” I said, “I might as well be here by myself!” [Laughter] You know, and that’s how it is now. With the iPhone generation. So, we don’t have time to interact. And we’re becoming more and more inhuman. Not inhumane, but inhuman; we’re not dealing with each other on that kind of level. So how do we resolve the issues of human beings, if we don’t interact with each other? We got they machines, everything, all that, you know—the machines going take over. They’ll give us a job when they take over! [Laughter] Yeah, like the monkeys said, it had us in there—Planet of the Apes, where they had us in there. But, I don’t know. I just think that, one thing, if I had the opportunity to impact public schools and what have you, I would have more human relations groups and stuff together. I’d be dealing more with the affective domain, rather than the academic. I would do away with grades and so forth. And I’d look at progress-based evaluations, to determine whether a person really, really absorbing what we are trying to get them to absorb, learn. I would bring more life experiences to my kids, so they’ll know what how it is to deal with life. I wouldn’t cripple them so much with these machines, because without the machines, they are crippled. And I do it all the time when I go to the store. They tell me, “It’s ninety-seven cents.” A cashier will.





And I give her a dollar and two cents. [Laughter] And invariably, if could follow me and tape it, they say, “Why you gave me too much money?” I say, “No, I’d like to have the nickel back.” “A nickel back? What you mean a nickel back?” I said, “I don’t want any more pennies, I just want a nickel.” “What—it’s only ninety- seven cents.” I said, “I understand that.” “You gave me a dollar and two cents!” And these kids aren’t learning. You look at—I look at McDonald’s. Which could and should be a training for entrepreneurs, future entrepreneurs, and it could provide you with all kinds of experiences: as a customer, as a customer representative, it can provide you with information about learning how to count, you know, math, reading, all of that can be involved in this experience, this job experience. And looking at the whole person, in my opinion. But you know what? There’s so much rote going on there, that they can’t even think! You go—I pull up to a window where I live. Told them once, some years ago—I was on my way to work, I’ll never forget—“I’d like to have a bacon burger, with no cheese. Mayo and lettuce only.” So I’m at the squawk box there. Nobody said anything. I said, “I’d like to have a bacon burger with no cheese, l—“ “I heard you, sir!” “Oh. Oh, I’m sorry. I didn’t hear you, I’m sorry.” “Come around!” I come around. Got to the window. Paid and everything. I got up there. I look at my sandwich, because I learned to do that. [Laughter] Bacon, cheese, tomato, mustard, pickles, mayo, all this stuff on it. So I go back around. I said, “Ma’am, you said you heard me.

Undoubtedly you didn’t.” I said, “I don’t want all this stuff on my sandwich. I don’t eat all of that. Would you please give me a bacon burger? I don’t want any cheese on it. I don’t want any mustard, I don’t want any pickles, I don’t want any





tomatoes. I just want mayo and lettuce on it.” She take it. I said, “Okay.” I went back up to the window. Looked at my sandwich: cheese, onion, no mustard, no tomatoes. Okay. It had pickles. I said, “All right.” I drove around to the window again. I said, “Ma’am, honestly. I—this is my third time.” I said, “Please, ma’am. I’ll have a bacon burger.” And I gave her the same things I wanted on it. And she say, [Hisses]. Now, like she’s pissed at me. Went back to the window. Didn’t have any onions on it. Didn’t have any tomatoes, no mustard, no pickles. Had mayo. Had lettuce. But didn’t have no hamburger on it. [Laughter] So I looked at it—now, this is a trip, now—I said, “Wait a minute. Got to be kidding. They got to”—I said, “You doing a thing. Wait, I know the camera’s somewhere.” I feel like they—“This can’t be for real!” [Laughter] I went and parked, and I went inside.

And I tell you, I laughed, because that was really funny. And I guess I was talking a little loud. I was talking to the manager, I told him exactly what happened.

Manager, boy—people started laughing and everything, and he started laughing, and he said, “Sir, we going give you everything free.” I said, “Naw.” I said, “Just give me what I asked for, that’s all I want.” [Laughter] But when I left, they were still laughing; that was the funniest thing. I didn’t have no meat on there! I’m saying—[Laughter] They had the bacon, but not the hamburger. And she said bacon burger. And my wife, when we were coming here the other day, we pull through that. She said, “Egg white sausage-egg delite.” Egg, egg—whatchacallit?

	D:	Egg Mcmuffin?



	DM:	The egg with no yolk. D:	Oh, egg white.





	DM:	The egg whites. The egg-white delite, with sausage, no cheese. Because I don’t each cheese. On a soft bun, on the hamburger bun. First, he said, “We don’t have the egg whites today.” She said, “What? At McDonalds?” So then, she said, “Okay.” I said, “Just give me the regular egg.” Go on and forward to—whatever you want to get. So she said, “On a soft bun. A hamburger bun.” He said, “We don’t have any hamburger buns.” She say, “A hamburger joint without any hamburger buns?” [Laughter] It was so funny! I’m going to get something—I make, in fact I may call it—one last story. I had this partner. Went to a McDonalds. And we had had lunch. And I asked for a frozen yogurt, you know, the ice cream. I said, “Let me have a cone of a frozen yogurt.” The lady, when she spoke, found out she was Jamaican or something. She said, “Okay, sir. And you, sir?” And he was sitting over in the passenger seat. He big guy. Former football player. Big old guy. He said, “Give me a cup of frozen yogurt.” So we sit back and we were talking. And she says, “Sir?” I said, “Me?” She said, “No, you. Sir?” He said, “Yes?” “Do you want that on the cone?” So he said, “No, I wanted a cup. Just a cup.” She said, “Okay.” So we sat there, and then she said, “Sir?” We said, “Yeah?” “Do you want chocolate chip mint?” He said, “No, I just want the yogurt in a cup.” “Sir? Do you want cherries on it?” He said, “I tell you what: give it to me any kind of way you want me to have it.” [Laughter] When it came back, had a cone turned upside down in the cup! He was holding the cup like— he says, “What?” I said, “You told her.” Think that maybe you got a sundae in a cup; they didn’t know. Do you see what I’m saying? Where we’re miseducating, man? You know we messing up! We messing these kids up. [Laughter] “I tell you





what: give it to me any way you want me to have it.” They give it to him with the cone upside-down in the cup, but that’s the funniest thing I’ve seen—. Oh, boy. That was one funny thing. He’s dead now. We used to laugh about this all the time. Yessir, buddy. Yep, so. Anything else you all got to—I know I—

	D:	Don’t want to keep your time too long.



	RM:	Yeah, I mean, I can come up with questions all day, but—one question: so, you had a newsletter called Aware. Do you have any copies of that?

	DM:	No, we don’t have none. That’s, that’s why I was saying earlier, I wish I had kept that. But we used to sell it for twenty-five cents.

	RM:	Oh, really?



	DM:	Mmhm. And we used to print our own news about the Black community.



	D:	And when you all—I know when SNCC came down, did they actually train you all in non-violence?

	DM:	No, they didn’t train us. They were over in Dunnellon. Mmhm. And that’s what they were doing with them, too. Show them how to cover up and all that kind of stuff.

	D:	So how did you all get trained? Did you all get formal training of some sort? DM:	No, we didn’t do that. We didn’t do that, no.

	RM:	Did you work much with people in Dunnellon? DM:	No. No, we didn’t.

	RM:	So it was strictly—



	DM:	It was strictly Ocala. And the people in the surrounding area here. In fact, that’s when I first noticed my wife as she was sitting out in the audience. She was in





high school. She was going to twelfth grade. She and her sister, they were sitting out there in the audience at a Mass Meeting. And I said, “[Inaudible 2:43:36], I like that look. I’m going to get her, make her my girlfriend.” Now, I was a junior going to college. She was only fifteen, and I was twenty. And I said, “I’m getting that little gal there.” So, that’s another thing. Yeah, that was in 1963. So that’s fifty-one years ago.

	D:	Congratulations. DM:	Isn’t that something? RM:	Is at that.

	DM:	Yeah. Because everybody used to come. We used to have speakers outside the church, because the church was too small to hold people. They used to be there. Old Frank could fire ‘em up, boy! He could fire ‘em up. He was a good man. He was one good dude. But his daddy really was the unsung hero. Because if he hadn’t allowed us to do that, it wouldn’t have happened.

	RM:	What kind of man was Reverend O.V. Pinkston? What was he like to interact with?

	DM:	He was a very easy person to talk to. He had a way about him that was—he had a mannerism that was, that put you at ease. You could talk to him. He was very easy to talk to. And he was very insightful. You know. You’d want to think he probably had a lot more education than he had. But he was, he would listen to you. And looked like his mind would be working, as you were talking to him.

Because he’s massaging what you—the information. And he was a strong—you could sense a real strength in him. And you felt a great deal of trust, somebody





you could really trust. And that, you know, in the instance, and the circumstances in which we were meeting with him, he understood what we were trying to do.

And you felt and you knew he supported you. Because he opened up the church to us, just like that! I mean, wasn’t no, “Let me think about it,” or “Let me meet with the board,” or “Let me do that.” It was, “Okay.” He said, “Yes, okay. That’ll be fine.” He never said, “You all going come in here and tear up my church.” Never, none of that. Because he figured—because he was trusting us, and we felt that trust, that we would take care of it. And we did. There wasn’t no problems with no trash or nothing, no disorganization. Because we knew those were his Sunday School classes for Sunday. And so, they were always ready. And he, he was a— as I think back, I’ve been thinking about him a lot. And I want to try to get some recognition for him, that he deserves. Because his son was the Martin Luther King figure here. But he was really their King, and he was—if it hadn’t been for him—and a lot of people don’t know, see, they don’t know the whole story.

Because, if you were coming to the Mass Meeting, you just saw Frank Pinkston. But you don’t know how Frank Pinkston got there. You would see some of us who happened to be some time on the program or whatever. But it was Reverend Pinkston, because a lot of these other ministers were afraid to do anything. Even let their faces be seen. Or to participate. Because they didn’t want their church to be burned down, and all that kind of stuff. All those little things you had to look at. What he did was unbelievable at that time, if I think about it. And we never gave him his just due. Never did. As long as he lived. A lot of honors paid to his son, I got some recognition, Charles Washington got some,





but he never did. And he never sought any. So he was a humble person. But he was a strong man. Very, very kind, and silent-like. You could see that silent strength. And he was a unique, in my opinion, he was a very unique individual among these ministers. And back in those days, I never heard anything negative talked about him. And he certainly didn’t rip off the church, like some of these preachers today. Because he had full-time job. [Laughter] You see? So he people working like that for him.

	D:	Do you have any memorable speeches, or any events that happened at that church? Any memorable speeches that you heard, or any events that happened at that church?

	DM:	I don’t have any copies. I remember we had Reverend C.K. Steele. Reverend



C.K. Steele was one of the founders of SCLC, along with Martin Luther King. And he was the vice president and all. And he came and spoke at that time. I introduced him. And I’ll never forget that night. That’s the first night I saw her [indicates his wife]. And then I looked [inaudible 2:49:46]. And he was a dynamic guy. Little guy. His son and I were classmates at Morehouse. So him and I, we were friends, and so. And his daddy was from Morehouse, so. He was a fiery little sucker. And he led that Tallahassee stuff, you know. All that. But I don’t have—I wish I could have had some of Frank’s speeches. Were you able to get any of those from anywhere? Did they have any?

	D:	There’s one.



	RM:	We have a transcript of one, we found. And I’ve heard there’s another one somewhere. But we’re looking for them now.





	DM:	Boy, he could go! He could go. He could fire ‘em up—fire us up. Yeah. And he was a good dude. Really good dude. Fearless man. And, yeah. And he wasn’t— see, it’s amazing how society kills off those kind of people who could really help us progress much more, much faster. Because he had it going on. And he became—you know, they blackballed him in the system, the education system. Because he was a teacher in the system. And he got to be a principal of Matthews-Scipio private school. He was able to do a lot there. Because he went and got the first Head Start program for this county. I mean, he was, he was a good guy.

	D:	What was the curriculum like, in that school? Because it was a private school.



They didn’t have to follow, necessarily, the standard curriculum, I’m guessing, so was it—

	DM:	I wasn’t that much involved in the school as such. But, based on the kids who went there, and how they were able to, some of them, to go to college and what have you, see, it probably was more intensive than a regular public school.

Because they also mixed some Christian principles. And certainly, when it came to discipline, they were further ahead, because they took discipline problems from the public schools when they got kicked out, and they would go over there, and they weren’t discipline problems over there. And we just happened to live across from the grounds of his house, across the field from the campus over there on Fifth Street. And I never knew of any real problems they ever had over there. You know? Never heard of any kind of ruckus, or fighting, or nothing, of those kids. Those kids were very well-behaved. And they came from all over, you





know, they weren’t just local. Because they had dormitories, and people who’d live there. But he—he was, he was a magnificent individual. And he had the mannerisms of his father, but he was more, he was fiery. Reverend Pinkston was not fiery in delivery. If you see pictures—in your mind, if you picture a strong man, just a strong man, you look at the rock-solid jaw, the square jaw, you know, like a Vince Lombardi strong-type there, that’s the way he was. But he had, he was the kindest person you’d ever want to know. He was—and I had a lot of interaction with him. So, I’m just saying, he was a good man. And I never even thought—now, O.V., I just started thinking about it last year, said, we should be giving him his just due. As to—as an unsung hero. O.V. Pinkston, he deserves some kind of recognition. I’m going to push for that.

	D:	Maybe we can plan something. Do you have anybody else who’s interested in talking about him, or who would, who may have, as much or more information?

	DM:	Yeah, you talked with his daughter, huh? Ann? D:	Yeah, we talked to Ann.

	RM:	Mmhm. She’s putting us in touch with Charles Washington, and with her brother, so.

	DM:	Oh, okay. So you getting in touch with Charles? Charles would be another.



Charles would be another. But the brother—what about the brother?



	RM:	Fred?



	DM:	Fred. Fred would be one. To talk about his father, he’d be good. Who’s still living? [Laughter] Who’s living? I’ll tell you: a young person who might have known him, his name is Bryant. He’s been a choir director at Covenant for a long





time. Sam, do you know which Bryant—which Bryant, he’s the choir director at Covenant?

	?M:	I know who you’re talking about.



	DM:	He used to be a manager of a McDonalds and all.



	?M:	Mmhm.



	DM:	Name was Bryant.



	?M:	Marybeth.



	M?:	Mmhm.



	?M:	Do you remember that guy’s name, that used to be the manager at McDonald’s, used to stay around the corner from us in Ocala?

	DM:	Yeah, he used to live on 3rd Street. Bryant. His name is… M?:	I don’t.

	DM:	I know who would know. I bet Carolyn would know. Or Joanne. And I know he



used to manage the McDonalds down from here.



	?M:	He does inspections now for the city. Restaurant inspections and stuff. DM:	Oh, does he?

	?M:	That’s what he does now. Mmhm.



	DM:	At the church, you can get to him through— D:	Through Rosemary?

	DM:	Huh?



	D:	Through Rosemary?



	?M:	She would know, Rosemary? ‘Natu?





	DM:	Oh. Yeah. Rosemary would know, yeah. He’s at the church. He’s the choir director there now. Someone’ll give me his name. [Looking through phone.] Let me see, call. She knows everything. Whose name it is. I know who knows. How much more time you got on your degree?

	D:	I got about three years for the PhD. So, hopefully by 2017. DM:	It’ll be here before you know it.

	D:	Mmhm.



	DM:	Be here before you know it, boy. Pass you by.



	?M:	Was his family name Sam? Did he drive a taxi? DM:	His daddy used to drive a cab.

	?M:	Because we used to call him Taxi—seems like Sam, or Samuel, or something like [that].

	DM:	Sam.



	?M:	We call him “Taxi Sam.” [Laughter]



	DM:	We knew all the nicknames, before. [Laughter] Yeah. [On phone] Hey, Brenda.



What’s Bryant’s name—the choir director at your church? Benjamin. Okay. I’ll call you back. Okay, thanks. Bye bye. [Hangs up] Benjamin Bryant. Benjamin Bryant, yeah. He’s relatively young, he’s in his sixties, but I mean, he spanned a whole period of time, he’s been there just about all his life. But he would know about Rev. O.V. Pinkston. So he’d be somebody good to talk to, yeah. We used give people nicknames. We had some—we had a lot of nicknames here. One kid, we used to call—his name was “Everywhere.” Everywhere you go, you see him, right? So I remember one year, I came back here. I went out, and Club Bally was





still open. I went to Club Bally. So I walked in, and walked up to him, and said, “Hey, man! How you”— And he said, “Hey, Dorsey, how you doing?” And I say, “Hey, Everywhere, how you doing?” He says, “No, this ain’t Everywhere. This his brother Been-There.” [Laughter] Everywhere and Been-There!

	?M:	I saw him and Murray not too long ago. DM:	Who, Everywhere?

	?M:	Oh, he still’s Everywhere! [Laughter]



	DM:	Oh, I laughed so. Everywhere and Been-There. And their sister name was Camilla. Remember?

	?M:	Yes, I used to run her home. Used to be trying to get some of our ice cream. [Laughter]

	DM:	[Inaudible 3:00:45] Used to run her home. Yeah, Everywhere.



	?M:	Yeah, you remember Camilla? M?:	Yeah, I remember Camilla.

	DM:	Yeah. And Everywhere and Been-There. M?:	Mmhm.

	DM:	Yessir.



	M?:	Everywhere and Max came up. Because Max’d talk about him in his sermons a while. He came up, he said, “You remember me?” I said, “Now, Everywhere!

Okay!” [Laughter]



	DM:	He was sure ev-‘ry-where, you’d see him.



	?M:	And his brother had already been there.





	DM:	And we called him Been-Dere. Not Been-There, but Been-Dere. “This Been- Dere.” I said, “Okay, Been-Dere!” And I couldn’t tell you they names or nothing! Yeah. Yeah, we stick you for a nickname. So, you got Charles Washington. She gave you that, huh? I’ll have to give him a call. He went on to do real great things. Charles was a professor at—I think it was George Washington.

	D:	In Washington, D.C.?



	DM:	And also at University of Mississippi, and at FAU. And he was the Dean up at Clark Atlanta University. After he retired. Yeah, old Charles Washington. So, he’s been around.

	RM:	He’s up in Atlanta now, right?



	DM:	He up in Atlanta. Is Ann getting you in touch with him? RM:	Yeah. Yeah, so we’ll figure that out from here.

	DM:	And Fred. Fred is up in Atlanta, too.



	JD:	Yeah, we’re thinking of making a trip up there soon, so.



	DM:	Yeah. Yeah, see both of them up there. Because they real close to, the two are close. Let me see. Is there anything else?

	D:	I mean, I can ask you a billion questions—.



	RM:	Yeah, no, we could be here all day. I think that’s it. Can I ask one more question? DM:	Mmhm.

	RM:	Just about 1960. So, that’s obviously, like, Greensboro, and there are a lot of sit- ins going on. Was the fact that Frank Pinkston was part of that movement in Richmond, was that part of the inspiration that year? Or were you guys just kind of doing this on your own?





	DM:	When we did the stuff in [19]60? RM:	Yeah.

	DM:	Well, no, we weren’t involved with Frank then. We were in high school in 1960.



And I was telling you about the Esquires.



	RM:	I mean, had you heard about what he had done up there? DM:	Mm-mm.

	RM:	Okay, so this was just all on your own, kind of.



	DM:	Right. Yeah, we knew, we knew—and it might have been through a conversation with Reverend Pinkston, O.V. Pinkston. When we were talking about the fact that we needed some adults with us, because of what Mr. Hawk had said to us. And he might have mentioned, had we talked with Frank?

	RM:	Okay. Okay.



	DM:	But, he was ready as soon as we met with him. Yeah. And that’s when it took off. D:	Did you all have an advisor for the Esquires, or some type of—?

	DM:	Did we have an advisor? D:	Yeah.

	DM:	No. We organized this on our own. We organized it at my grandmother’s house. And the school recognized us. Because when we had Homecoming, and then we had Miss Esquire. And it fell apart after we left, you know. We had an annual parade and all that. And we felt we were absolutely the last word! [Laughter] I remember it now, and I laugh all the time. We used to have what we called socials. That was dances, at the—we had a cafetorium at our school. With a stage and all. So, that’s where we had a lot of socials. And so, say that we go





Friday night, they start at seven o’clock, so we tell the guys to meet outside a certain door at seven o’clock. And we going make our entrance at about seven fifteen. [Laughter] And so, I told you we had our outfits. And we had this lady make us some vests—the blue vest, white shirt, red tie, and blue pants. So see, back then, we were looking clean, we were clean, there wasn’t no saggy pants and all, we were trying to be sharp, right? And we would wait—there were about twenty-two of us, but when we got as many as, like, fifteen or sixteen, if they weren’t there, we going make our entrance. And they used to play a record for us: “Tonight’s the Night.” [Laughter] It accompanied us to march in. [Sings the tune] Dun-dun-dun-dun—“Here they come!” [Laughter] And we march in like a choir, at one time. And march around and pick up your girl—you know, your girl in there, waiting. And then you start dancing. You couldn’t tell us nothing! “What is that?” But boy, that was cool, boy! The Esquires coming in tonight! And boy— yes sir, buddy! Those were some good days. Our football games. You know, we had Homecoming, here in Ocala? It was a whole week of activities. I mean, an entire week. And we had bonfires—and we had fireworks at our Homecoming.

And you had the, let’s see—the north side of the stadium, where the main seats were, and on the other side, the south side, that would be filled with White folks. I mean, it would be packed! I mean, it would be packed, man! And people would be coming from miles around. And we would be dressed in suits and all that, didn’t go with no dungarees and all that kind of stuff—or jeans, we called them “dungarees”—and all that stuff. We’d be dressed up. It was a happening, you know. And it was a festive occasion. And the Wild Bulls had a heck of a football





team. I mean—we played Florida A&M a couple of years, and Bethune. The high school. That’s how bad they were. Undefeated for years. I mean, a heck of a football team. So, we had a great, great, great tradition. And it was a lot of just, I mean, like I said, it was kind of Tom Sawyer-ish.

	?M:	You tell them about Mr. Boss’s record? For winning?



	DM:	Mm-mm, no. Mr. Boss, who was my principal, he was coach for years. He was a legendary coach. He said the first—he coached for twenty-some-odd years. And his first year coaching, he lost all—he played seven games and lost seven. The next year, he played seven games and lost five. So he lost twelve of the first fourteen games. And for the next twenty years, he lost only four games. The next twenty years. His nickname was James “No-Loss” Boss. [Laughter] And we played, you know, Jacksonville, Tampa, Orlando. The Wild Bulls, they were known. And then, the next coach, Bubba Johnson, he had a record of a hundred and… When he ended his career, I think it was 147-22. He won a hundred forty- seven games, he lost twenty-two. Mr. Boss lost sixteen. He won a hundred twenty-two. They were something else! I was statistician when I was in tenth, eleventh, twelfth grade, I was a statistician. I kept the stats. I knew all them records, man. They were something. Wild Bulls! And we sent a lot of players to college back in those days. But—and that was another good thing, because a lot of those kids—and then they had a coach at Fessenden. See, you had four Black high schools in the county then. And four White high schools. Which they didn’t need. See, at one time, they only had Howard Academy. And that’s where all the Blacks went from all over the county. But then, they built—and at Fessenden,





which was a private, they made that a public school. And that was in the northern part of the county. And then you had Booker T. Washington in Dunnellon. And then you had Belleview-Santos down here where they live. So they had the four high schools, Black high schools. And then you had Ocala High, North Marion High, Lake Weir High—what is the other one?

	M?:	Did you say Forrest?



	DM:	No, they didn’t have Forrest back then. They had Ocala High.



	?M:	Ocala High, Lakewood— DM:	Lake Weir, North Marion—

	?M:	Dunnellon?



	DM:	Dunnellon. They had Dunnellon High School, mmhm. So, that was segregation for you. You had to have two of everything. And it wasn’t that great. Two of everything. Two of this—really, it was one and a half, because our schools were only about the half of theirs, because we didn’t have—we didn’t have nothing! [Laughter] The books, man! We had books. I used to tell people I had—

	M?:	Never saw a new book.



	?M:	They always came from Ocala High School.



	DM:	—if I hadn’t have gone to college, I never would have known who won World War



II. Because my book ended with the bombing of Pearl Harbor. [Laughter] And that was twenty years later. I didn’t know who won World War II! We got through that book, go, “How did that war end?” [Laughter] But you know what was really interesting back in those days, too? You know about the Black entrepreneurship and all that, the economic thing—Blacks probably employed about forty to fifty





percent of the other Blacks in the county. Because that’s—the businesses, that’s how we had all these different businesses that were there. That’s how it was, back in those days. See, pulpwood was big, you had the horse farms, you had the orange pickers. People worked at Silver Springs, the boat drivers and stuff like that. And those guys were making a lot of money back in the day! I mean, they were making a lot of money. And those guys who were waiting tables and all, they made a lot of money! So—and then it all disappeared. Foop! You know we had our own airport there? Yeah, it was nice. They got a little airport out there now, but they had an airport, much bigger airport. And—and you know the University of Florida was here before it went to Gainesville. 1926, I believe, they had an argument over a water bill. Say it was a forty dollar water bill with the city. [Laughter] That’s what I read. And they moved to Gainesville. Now, just think what this place would’ve been like. It had the University of Florida; you had the opportunity to have Disney World; the Cross-Florida Barge Canal was coming right down the road here, to cut a waterway from the Atlantic to the Gulf. They still got some remnants. You can see them as you go south, here.

	?M:	On 441, you can see them.



	DM:	Yeah, it was coming right through here. It would have been a seaport town—I mean, this would have been a hell of a metropolis. Busch Gardens wanted to come here. They kept all that away. And then Silver Springs died, and Six-Gun Territory—y’all never heard of Six-Gun Territory, huh?

	RM:	I have not. D:	Mm-mm.





	DM:	That was a tourist attraction out there near Silver Springs. It was big at one time.



Six-Gun Territory.



	?M:	Like the Old West.



	M?:	Yep, had the shoot-outs and all that. Was a big thing, back in the day.



	DM:	Back in the day. There was a lot of stuff going on. But they kept it out. So. But, that’s about it, I think.

	D:	Thank you. We appreciate it. RM:	Yeah, thank you.

	DM:	I’ll give you a card, I’ll give you contact—if you’re ever down our way, let us know.

[End of recording]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, March 4, 2015



	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, July 12, 2018



	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019