AAHP 164; Frederic; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 164 Elsa Frederic

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Ayana Flewellen on March 2, 2011 35 minutes | 18 pages



Abstract: Elsa Frederic grew up in Miami, Florida. She speaks in this interview about Black beauty aesthetics, and how they relate to her life and experiences, and how she gathers information and ideas regarding makeup and beauty. Her mother was born in Haiti, and Ms. Frederic contrasts her mother’s aesthetics with her own.





Keywords: [African American History; Beauty; Aesthetics]





























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 164

Interviewee: Elsa Frederic Interviewer: Ayana Flewellen Date: March 2, 2011



	AF:	All right. So, it is March second, and I’m here in Pugh Hall in the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program Office. My name’s Ayana Flewellen; I’m here with Elsa.

And we’re going to be discussing beauty, and Black beauty and aesthetics today. So, could you please state your full name for me?

	EF:	My name is Elsa Frederic. AF:	And where were you born? EF:	I was born in Miami, Florida.

	AF:	Can you give me your date of birth? EF:	December 22, 1991.

	AF:	1991. Cool. How was it like growing up in Florida?



	EF:	You know, Miami’s pretty diverse. There’s a strong Hispanic culture, and Haitian culture as well. My background is, I have a Haitian descent. So, you know, there’s pretty culturally diverse in Miami. Living in a city, you’re exposed to so many things; a lot of violence, and a lot of different, different things, pretty much, in general.

	AF:	Would you say that that’s shaped your outlook on, I guess, the world, or—?



	EF:	Yeah it definitely has. If you come from an urban background, it’s kind of different from a rural background. Because you have to deal with—especially in the school system, you got to deal with a lot of sharing textbooks, or, you know, not having enough money to do certain things, and not living in a beautiful area. Stuff like that. So, it really did affect how I grew up, and how I view the world.

	AF:	So, do you have any brothers or sisters?





	EF:	I do. I’m the eleventh child. AF:	Wow!

	EF:	Yeah, so I think five sisters. I’m the sixth girl, and the rest are boys. AF:	That’s amazing. I have seven other brothers and sisters. I’m the oldest. EF:	Oh wow cool. [Laughter]

	AF:	Yeah. I’m the oldest, I’m the oldest. And they’re half, so it’s interesting. So I don’t really see them as often, but you probably see—

	EF:	All of them are half? AF:	Yeah.

	EF:	Oh, okay. Cool. [Laughter] Wow.



	AF:	That’s interesting, to be one of eleven. I think that’d be so much fun. [Laughter] EF:	I know, especially being the last one.

	AH:	But, I guess we can start with a very open-ended question: can you just give me your definition of beauty?

	EH:	My definition of beauty is the naturalest form, I think. I think how to find beauty is being very simple. You know, I see certain women, I think that the beautifulest women are people who have natural hair. I like that. Or no makeup. You know, and just pretty simple. That’s what I think is beauty. The more you add on, or the more you make it more superficial, the less beautiful I think it is. Sorry. [Laughter]

	AH:	No that’s a perfectly fine definition. And what would you say, I guess, to define Black beauty, or when you hear the term “Black beauty,” what comes to mind?

	EH:	Black beauty, I think of, you know, African culture. I was watching something on CNN, on a documentary on Ethiopians. And I saw a couple of women, their





heads were shaved. And then when you look at their skin, their skin was so dark and smooth; and you look at their bone structure, you know? It was like, they had high cheekbones, and they were really beautiful. So when I think of Black beauty, I think of that, pretty much.

	AH:	So where do you—I guess, here in the United States, where do you normally see images portrayed of Black Americans?

	EH:	Where do I see images of Black Americans? AH:	Yeah.

	EH:	Usually on the TV. You know, I mostly see them on BET or music videos. That’s pretty much where I see a lot of Black women. They’re usually portrayed negatively.

	AH:	Can you give any examples?



	EH:	Examples? I can say that, you know, as far as music videos, the video vixens and stuff like that. Also some of the artists, like, you know, you have Ciara and Keri Hilson recently who—you know, just exposing herself, and doing all that stuff. So, you know—and that’s where I see Black women the most.

	AH:	What, I guess, when you think of Black women in these situations you mentioned, one being the video vixen, are there any other images that come to mind that you often see portrayed about Black women in media outlets?

	EH:	Now that I really think about it, there’s other important Black people, too, that are portrayed, like Oprah, and, you know, Tyra Banks, and you have different people who bring a positive image. Halle Berry, people like that. Those are beautiful Black women as well that are portrayed in media.





	AH:	Would you say that—I guess, what images do you see, because I know you were talking mainly about Black women. What images do you see when you think of Black men, or in media outlets? What images do you normally see of Black men?

	EH:	Images—like, do you want me to use words associated, or—?



	AH:	You can use words, you can use phrases, be it stereotypes or just—it can be anything that kind of just comes to mind.

	EH:	Okay, Black men is usually associated with violence: you know, gangs, being uneducated. The most part, as far as the media or the music videos, they usually really into sex or money, cars, stuff like that. But then, there’s also positive; like, you have people like Obama, you know, who contradicts all those things. But those are usually the stereotypes associated with Black men, that I think—the negative stereotypes.

	AH:	You mentioned some of the negative ones for Black women. Do you think that they adversely affect Black women? Or, do you think that they kind of just shrug it off their shoulders, that it really doesn’t apply to them?

	EH:	No, I really do believe that it does affect women when they hear the stereotypes, because it’s almost to the point that some of them live up to it. Like, you know, when they hear it, they’re like, “Oh, well, this is what the world considers me as. I can’t do any better, I can’t really get out of that.” So I think it does affect them. It does play a role on their attitude and how they see themselves. It takes, like—it usually takes a strong individual to—or themselves, they have to be pretty strong to be able to break out that stereotype, and be like, “I can do better than this stereotype. I can break out of it.”





	AH:	So, do you think that the Black community has control over the images that are portrayed in regards to them?

	EH:	Yeah, I think they do. Especially like televisions, like BET. They could choose not to show those videos. You know, they could choose to have campaigns to try to speak to some of the artists, tell them, you know, “Hey, calm down with all that,” you know? Or they could be other people, like—there could be other people in the media like Oprah and stuff like that, advocating, or try to speak to the younger community, and tell them, “Hey this is how you’re supposed to carry yourself, and you’re supposed to respect yourself,” and all that stuff. So it could be controlled, but I don’t think it is right now.

	AH:	And just out of curiosity, because you said you don’t think that it is right now; who do you think does have, or what do you think is in control of those images, then?

	EH:	I think usually people who are in control are the people who have the most influence; they’re the ones that they look up to. So, right now, what I think has the most influence on the youth is music or the pop culture. You know, rap music; whatever they hear, or whatever they think is cool, is going to control, you know, what they’re going to do. Especially teenagers; if it’s cool to wear shades, they’re going to wear shades. You know, and stuff like that. So, people who have the most influence are the people in the media, and the people who they look up to. So, if they were to change how they were, and if they were to make something else cool, then I think the teens or the youth would follow that. So.





	AH:	So, just out of curiosity, again; how much money would you say that you spend a month on just beauty products or hygienic products? So, that being said, like clothing, on your hair, makeup?

	EH:	Oh my gosh. [Laughter] In a month? AH:	Yeah.

	EH:	Because I work so, this is out of an income coming in. Last semester not much, but, this semester, since I had a job, I think about half my paycheck—which is about a hundred dollars—would go to stuff like that. And then the other hundred’s like food and stuff. So, four hundred. I would say four hundred.

	AH:	So you would say that it’s important, then?



	EH:	Personally, yeah, I think it’s important for me to look good when I step out. [Laughter]

	AH:	No harm. I guess, when you say when you “step out”—into society, I guess, you know? So just explain to me, when you step out, I guess, why is it such an importance, just personally for you?

	EH:	I think it’s important because it’s, like, if you want to have a social life, you kind of need to look a certain—if you long to have a social life, or to associate with other people, I mean, you can’t necessarily just step out with your hair looking messed- up. Because you know nobody’s going to probably want to talk to you. [Laughter] So, I mean, I think it’s important for you to look good all the time. And plus, like, this society, like, in order to get somewhere, you have to look a certain way, I think. You know people judge you. So, it’s important that you kind of have to—if





you want to survive in this world, I think you kind of have to live up to a certain standard.

	AH:	And just going off of that, when you talk about standards, what do you define as that standard, that you think?

	EH:	Okay, so we’re talking about Black women; I think the standard—like, physical appearance, or—?

	AH:	Mmhm.



	EH:	Yeah, okay. The standard for, I think a woman—according to society, not my own definition—but is usually slim waist, long hair, makeup. But usually, thicker on the bottom, as far as thick thighs and stuff like that. And of course a big butt. [Laughter] I think those are the physical standards. But you know, the standard is to always look good, you know? To always keep yourself up.

	AH:	Would you say that people convey certain messages with the way that they look?



	EH:	Yes. If you—like, the example I was saying before, if you step out or go out into society looking pretty bad, then it pretty much conveys that you don’t care about yourself, you don’t care about your appearance, you don’t care about who you meet. You just, you’re like, “Whatever.” But if you take the time to, like, you know, take care of yourself and look good, then it shows that you’re the kind of person that you know you wanna socialize, you want to meet people. That’s what I think.

	AH:	I guess, have you noticed any differences between the aesthetic or the standard that you kind of ascribe to, versus that of your mother and your aunts—the generation above you?





	EH:	Oh yeah, it’s a big difference. Because my mom was born in Haiti, and aesthetics—define aesthetics; you mean, like, hair, clothes?

	AH:	Yeah.



	EH.	Okay. Yeah. My mom, she has a whole different definition of beauty. Me, like you know, I’m trying maintain a certain size. She thinks I’m too small. Haitian culture love big women. If you’re like obese—or, not obese, but overweight—you know, that’s good. They like that. And especially with hairstyles. My mom likes to braid my hair a certain way, and I’m like “Oh, no!” [Laughter] And so, she thinks certain things are beautiful that I think is kind of weird in this society. Especially with the kind of clothing she wears. She likes a lot of print and colors, bold colors and stuff like that, and I’m just more of a navy, black, grey type of person. So, it’s very different.

	AH:	What would you say—I guess, just taking a step farther back—I’m not sure if you’re close with your grandparents or not, but how would you say the difference is between you, your mother, and your grandparents?

	EH:	Okay. Well, I didn’t know my grandparents, but I’m probably assuming that it was pretty different. Because my mom’s caught in the middle. She’s a little bit Americanized, but she still has that Haitian background. So, I think her grandparents was probably a little bit more different; you know, like, full Haitian culture, like with the—I don’t know if you’ve ever seen Haitian carnivals and stuff like that, with the colors, and the bright—. You know?

	AH:	It’s beautiful.





	EH:	Yeah, the made skirts and stuff like that. With my mom, she’ll wear a polo shirt with a printed skirt. [Laughter] You know, she’s like a mixture in between. She’ll combine clothes in a way that I wouldn’t. So, and then, I’m like a true American as far as you know, everything has to match and all that stuff. So, I think that’s like the difference.

	AH:	And I guess just going to hair, because a lot of my research, it focuses on this kind of importance that’s being placed on hair. Do you think that there’s—do you kind of agree with that cultural, I guess, discussion?

	EH:	Yes! [Laughter] There is a huge—can I talk about my personal experiences? AH:	Yeah, definitely. Definitely.

	EH:	So yeah. My whole life, I’ve been natural. I just relaxed my hair about a year ago, and I think I relaxed it because a lot of pressure that I felt in high school—

	AH:	And I’m sorry, just to clarify, what would you define “natural” hair?



	EH:	Oh natural hair is, like, not having any chemicals. Like it’s, whatever comes out of your roots. Like not being processed or changed or anything like that. Is that a good—?

	AH:	M.hm.



	EH:	Okay. But, yeah. So, I was natural most of my life until my senior year of high school, but then you know people be like, “Oh when you going to relax your hair?” You know my friends would be like, “You look a little kid. It’s time for you to grow up,” and stuff like that. So they kind of pressured me to relax my hair. And when I did I kind of liked it. I missed my old hair, but, you know, eventually, I adapted and got used to it. And you know, my hair is pretty long, and then—I’m





just going to tell you a short story that happened to me recently: my hair was bra- strapped. And then what happened was, because I came to college, and I wasn’t eating properly, like my hair started shedding, and I started taking care of my hair myself. So then, when I finally went to the beautician, she was like, “All your hair is damaged, so I’m going have to cut it.” And when she cut it, it went from bra- strapped—like you know where my armpits are, bra-strap all around, to above my shoulders. And for a whole week, I couldn’t look in the mirror. Like, it affected me so much, because I was used to having that hair like this. And I was used to putting my hair down; as you can see, I don’t put my hair down anymore.

Because it’s like I kind of got attached to it, and so when it left it, was like a part of me left, too. I was like, “Ugh!” But it’s fine. So. There is a huge importance on hair, and I’m guilty of it.

AH:  What messages do you think people convey through their hair?



	EH:	Well, I think it really does speak about their personality. I think people who have natural hair, it conveys a message that—well, to society, because my friends were talking about that the other day; like, they’re free-spirited, or they don’t care about society, or they just walk their own path. But people who relax their hair, you know, the stereotypes is usually that they’re superficial, or they really care about their appearance, or they conform to whatever society’s saying. So, that’s what I think. Did you want me to go further?

	AH:	I mean, you can go on as much as you want. Like, there’s no time limit. So if you wanted to continue, continue; I don’t want to feel like I’m cutting you off.





	EH:	Okay. But yeah, people with relaxed hair, it’s like I was saying before: it’s like a lot of pressure, you know? Because like, people always say that if you don’t—like for example, that guy who said that nappy-headed—you know, on the radio station. You heard?

	AH:	I’m trying of who that was. It was some popular radio guy.



	EH:	But yeah. You never want to actually live up to that stereotype of being considered “nappy-headed,” and stuff like that. So, there’s a lot of pressure. So, you know, I guess people who relax their hair are usually seen as weak, or trying to fit in, and stuff like that.

	AH:	Yeah, there’s a lot of discussion about women who have relaxed hair, and they kind of attribute that to trying to be accepted, I guess, in comparison to their White counterparts. Would you agree with that, or—?

	EH:	Personally, I just don’t agree because I’ve heard of that, too, and I was like, “What? That’s not the first thing that comes to mind when I relax my hair.” The first thing that came to mind was manageability. Because, you know, it’s hard dealing with natural hair. And you know, once you relax your hair, it’s just like flexibility and adaptability, too, because you could do different styles, and you can finally put weave in it and it would match, and go and stuff like that, and you don’t have to constantly hot press your hair, and have to—. You know, so it was more about adapting, being flexible. But I never really associated it with that at all. So, I thought that was pretty crazy.

	AH:	Because even on the same spectrum, then you can say that there’s a lot of discussion saying that people who have natural hair are trying to somehow





attach themselves to their African roots, you know? So would you agree with that, or what are your feelings towards—?

	EH:	I think I feel the same way. Like, you know, it could be a matter of preference.



Maybe they, for health reasons, they don’t want to put chemicals in their hair. Or maybe it’s because they think they look better with natural hair. I don’t think it’s always, you know—I can’t rule out the whole statement completely; maybe there are some who actually want to feel connected to their African roots, but I don’t think that’s the main reason for people wanting to stay natural. So.

	AH:	When you think of a Black woman, what’s the first image that comes to mind? EH:	And I can use words and stuff like that, right?

	AH:	Yeah, you can shout out words, you can shout out phrases; whatever comes to mind.

	EH:	Strength, courage, intelligence. Like, when I think of a Black woman, I think of my mom, pretty much. Because she’s the epitome of—like, my role model. She has a very strong character, and it’s like she never breaks. Like, I thought—like last night, I associate emotion with weakness. I am very emotional, so I consider myself kind of weak. But my mom she doesn’t cry at all. And if she does cry it’s like, I had one of my brothers passed away, so when she does cry, it’s really shocking. And it’s kind of uncomfortable seeing my mom cry. Now, I’ve only seen her cry a few times. So, when I think of Black women, I think of strength, and basically not being weak at all. It’s probably like the frontliner. Then after that, there’s the negative part of Black women, too. Like, sometimes you see them as being unintelligent, or as the new word that’s going around: “ratchet.” [Laughter]





So there’s words like that that’s going around, too. And it really depends. There’s all different types of stereotypes.

AH:  Definitely. And I guess, just to jump off on that: when you think of Black hair, what comes to mind?

EH:  Black hair, I immediately think natural or kinky hair. That’s like the first thing that comes to mind. Because it is the hair that grows out of the roots of our head, so. Also, I think of weave too. The use of weave.

AH:  And I guess, just personally for you, what outlets do you kind of, I guess, seek, or you get information from, that attribute to your personal style?

EH:  I’m sorry, can you repeat again?



AH:  That’s okay. I guess, what outlets do you kind of seek for your personal style?



Like for your outfits, or your hair styles, or your makeup, where do you kind of go for that kind of information?

	EH:	I kind of go to YouTube a lot for makeup. Because, you know, looking at other women do it, you can copy it, and like, “Oh, this is how they put eyeliner on.” You know, do nails; it’ a lot of tutorials on YouTube. I go there, I get a lot of inspiration for my clothing; magazines, you know, going on blogs and stuff like that. Or I look around on campus, too. If there’s something I like, “Oh, wow, I like the way she put that together, I’m going try to go in my closet and do that, too.” If it’s my own personal style. Sometimes I could just be walking through the store, and I just get inspiration, and I’m just like “Oh, okay.” Music videos, too. The media. If you ever look at a talk show or a video and you’re like, “Okay I like what she’s wearing,” it sometimes influences what I wear, too. So, I get it from everywhere.





	AH:	And I heard that you mentioned magazines. What magazines do you usually—



	EH:	Well, I had a subscription of Seventeen magazine, and I think I have another one. I can’t even remember. But that was back in high school, like ninth or tenth grade year. Because my style hasn’t changed, really, since then. But when I go to a doctor’s office and stuff like that, then I usually pick up Glamour, and Allure, and I just look at that. So—.

	AH:	Do you seen a lot of women of color in those magazines? EH:	No. [Laughter] No, I don’t. Unfortunately, no.

	AH:	I guess I pretty much asked all my questions. Are there any other statements that you wanted to make on the topic of beauty, or Black women, or the stereotypes that are kind of attributed to that? You can ask me questions if you’d like, as well.

	EH:	Can I ask you some of the questions that you asked? AH:	Yeah! [Laughter]

	EH:	Okay, so, what is your definition of beauty?



	AH:	Oh, for me? I’ve been going back and forth, like, forever, with what I kind of define as beauty. And recently, I saw this quote from Alice Walker, and she said, you know, “Beauty is perfection and imperfection at the same time,” you know? Because to be beautiful is automatically attributed to this kind of perfection that you want to obtain, because everyone’s kind of seeking beauty somehow, be it inside or out. So, it could just be you want to find yourself, and your soul, and everything. Or it could just be a physical kind of beauty that you’re looking towards, as well. But, imperfections, to me, are gorgeous. Are just as gorgeous and just as beautiful. I think I have the biggest nose in the entire world, but I still





think it’s pretty. So, for me, I think that beauty is the perfection and imperfection, really. But—

	EH:	That’s cool!



	AH:	Yeah. [Laughter] EH:	Yeah, that’s good.

	AH:	It’s always interesting to like hear different responses that people have, because it’s such an open-ended question that, you know, people can just run with it, whichever way they want. And I like that. So. [Laughter]

	EH:	Yeah, that’s cool. So like, you asked me a question about, like, the difference between my grandparents, and parents, and how are they like—I’m asking you the same question like how has that changed, as far as the aesthetics?

	AH:	For me, I grew up natural, and then I relaxed my hair in probably the eighth grade. And it was because I begged my mom to relax my hair, because I used to run around when I was younger with the towel wrapped around my hair, and you would have it, and you would pretend that like the edges of it were your hair, and you pretended that you had this long hair. And I always wanted that, but my hair was kinky and it was short, and there would always be shrinkage, so it never went passed my shoulders. I’m fairly certain that it probably would never go passed my shoulders, just with it being kinky alone. If I were to straighten it— maybe; I’m not sure—but, for me, I had begged my mom to give me a relaxer in the eighth grade. And because of that, she said yes. And then, in 2010—no, 2009. Yeah. I cut all my hair off and I went natural and I just started growing my hair the way that it was, partially because I really wanted to decide whether or not





I really thought I was pretty without my relaxed hair, and then partially because I couldn’t afford to get it relaxed anymore up here in Gainesville. It just costs so much, and my hair was just not used to the humidity that was up here, that I would get a relaxer, go outside, and that would just be it. It would just be horrible. But, when I first cut off my hair, my friend told me I look like Flo from Good Times, which is the mom—that he told me, and I thought that was tragic. I have no idea why, but I was just like, “I look like the mom from Good Times? My goodness!” But I’ve been growing it natural ever since. My mother, on the other hand, she’s really one for just style, and her hair is her hair and it’s really nothing. There’s really nothing more attached to it than just that. So, she’s been natural, she’s had locks; she cut them off. She was natural again; she relaxed it. She recently cut that off, and now she’s natural. So she kind of goes through these phases, and through these different cycles. And I think, for her, it’s almost like a renewal process every time that she does it. It’s just something new in her life.

And I don’t know if she knows it or not, but each time something different happens, she chops her hair off and she does something different. So, it’s always interesting. And then for my grandma, I’ve never—oddly enough, I’ve never seen my grandmother without a wig on her head. Yes. She always has a wig on her head. It’s always like a short kind of straight bob that she always has, but she makes fun of my hair, because she’s like, “Oh, you know, yeah, the kids used to always do that back in the [19]50s and [19]60s. Oh, I had an afro.” And she would show me different pictures of her, and she was just gorgeous with her fro. But I have no idea how her hair looks underneath that wig! [Laughter] Yeah. So I





have no idea how her hair looks underneath that wig; it’s quite interesting. But the wig is always, you know, this kind of straight bob that she does. So, there’s definitely—you can see that styles, they change over time, and sometimes they convey messages, and sometimes they’re just that: trends. So, it’s always interesting.

	EH:	So, what do you think about the use of makeup and weave? Like do you think it’s superficial, or how do you see that?

	AH:	For me, I’m not sure. I have a really interesting take. Because obviously, I’m wearing makeup right now. But I only—and I say the same thing for synthetic modification, like with weaves and everything like that: I only think it’s a problem if you’re unable to wear it, or if you feel like you’re ugly without it. Then I think it’s a problem. You know, and that’s my only thing. I have a lot of friends who will not step outside the house without, you know, pounds of makeup on, eyeliner, and their weave on point. So, I have friends who literally feel ugly without that. And I think that that’s when it becomes a problem, when you can’t be yourself and feel beautiful. I can step outside the house with my fro untamed and without makeup on, and still go to class, and still chat with my friends, and it would be okay. Like, the worlds not going to implode. But some of my friends really can’t say that.

Some of them depend upon that MAC makeup, that long weave; so, I only think it’s a problem when you can’t live without it, you know? But, that’s just my opinion. [Laughter]

	EH:	Pretty cool. I don’t think I have any more questions. Think that was about it.





	AH:	It’s cool. I’m sorry, I should have asked you this at the beginning: but, your major? Like, what year are you here?

	EH:	I’m a first year public relations major.



	AH:	That’s awesome. I was exploratory when I first got here.



	EH:	I was finance, and then I switched over like a month ago. And I’m still thinking about switching, so I don’t know. I’m all over the place. So, just consider me exploratory, too. [Laughter]

	AH:	But thank you. Thank you so much for your time. It’s definitely been a learning experience on both ends. So.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:  Sandra Romero, October 1, 2015 Audit-edited by: Ryan Morini, November 13, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019