AAHP 503; Cailler; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 503 Bernadette Cailler Interviewed by [Interviewer Name] on August 1, 2017

1 hour 47 minutes | 41+ pages



Abstract: In this interview, Bernadette Cailler talks about co-chairing the Achebe and Baldwin meeting at the University of Florida. She talks in detail about planning the whole event from start to finish. Cailler also talks about her professional life with as the department chair of African Studies. When she got to the University of Florida, there was little resources to teach about African studies. She did most of her academic studies in Caribbean Literature and Comparative Literature in France and the United States. Upon her retiring, Caribbean Literature is no longer offered at the University of Florida.



Keywords: [Comparative Literature; Caribbean Literature; University of Florida; Gainesville, Florida; African Studies; James Baldwin; Chinua Achebe; Achebe-Baldwin meeting]



AAHP 503

Interviewee: Bernadette Cailler Interviewer: Ryan Morini

Date: August 1, 2017



	M:	This is Ryan Morini with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Today is August 1st, 2017, and I’m here with Dr. Bernadette Cailler. Thanks for joining me.

	C:	You are most welcome.



	M:	And we’re discussing the Achebe/Baldwin event, or the 1980 African Literature Association Conference that was held here, at the University of Florida. You wanted to start with a few things.

	C:	Well, yes, actually; I was co-convener for the conference with Mildred Hill-Lubin, and Dr. Hunt Davis was then the director of the Center for African Studies. And of course, this had meant a lot, a lot of work and preparation over the past two years preceding the conference. And, although this is quite far, I still have a few very vivid memories, I must say, of that conference. But, as I told Ryan a while ago, I have a few notes here which perhaps we’ll go through quickly, and then we’ll take it from there. I suppose you know that periodically, the African Literature Association publishes selected papers. We have a conference every year, actually, and I was one of the very first people to join this association. I think it was the second year, in 1975, since I arrived here in 1974. And, they took us some time to publish the selected papers in relation to the conference topic, which has something to do with defining the African aesthetic. [Laughter] Which respectively, I find this title extremely ambitious when you consider how gigantic the African continent is, and I have thought about it, and I have a few ideas, of course, about the reason why in those days you would feel free to still be talking about the African aesthetic as a whole. So, we published this at the Three





Continents Press, published the book in 1982. Three Continents Press was in Washington D.C. This book had several coeditors: the late Lemuel A. Johnson, Bernadette Cailler, Russel Hamilton, and Mildred Hill-Lubin. And I wanted to mention a couple of things regarding the introduction, unless you already discussed this with my colleagues.

	M:	No, keep—



	C:	No? There is an introduction which was signed by the four coeditors, and at the beginning, there is an interesting paragraph mentioning that in one of the chapters of his Morning Yet on Creation Day, Chinua Achebe recalls that in June 1962, there was a writers’ gathering at Makerere University, and that gathering quote, “Despite its sonorous and rather solemn title, a Conference of African Writers of English Expression, turned out,” Achebe writes, “to have been a rather lively and significantly inconclusive affair.” And he said, “There was something which we tried to do and failed. That was to define African literature without an ‘s’.” So now, at least, we put an ‘s’, at least, satisfactorily. So I would have zillions of things to tell you about all this, but in the introduction then, the coeditors mentioned that twenty years later, or almost twenty years later, writers and scholars from three continents congregated at the African Literature Association 1980 Conference, convened at the University of Florida in Gainesville. And then, we start saying that there were some very prominent writers who had been invited, and we managed to get money through various channels. It was quite a feat, I believe, frankly. [Laughter] James Baldwin and Achebe, of course, were in a very important historical meeting. And I’ll come to this a bit later because I





found a video, which you might have seen, where Achebe refers to that moment. I don’t know if you have seen it, or heard it?

	M:	On YouTube, I think?



	C:	Yes, and you’ll remember probably—. M:	I think so.

	C:	I’ll come to this a bit later. And Kofi Awoonor were there. Now, Kofi Awoonor I think, visited this university several times. And he might have been here already when the conference took place. We may not have had to invite him from far. I’m not absolutely sure. But you probably know that Awoonor passed some time ago. And also Francis Bebey, who was an extremely interesting person, whom actually my late husband, violinist Elwyn Adams, had the opportunity to meet, not only at this conference. I think that that Elwyn invited him to listen to a Bach piece or sonata or [inaudible 5:55] he played for him in his studio when Frances was here. But then they saw each other again on the west coast in a couple of festivals, and they became sort of friends. And Francis Bebey was a remarkable person. He also died. Not only was he a person very interested, of course, in oral traditions and music, he played the guitar with a flair, reminding people of African instruments, I’m pretty sure, yeah. And we had an African festival, also he played there. And he used some of his own texts. He was a novelist and a short story writer, mixed in the—well anyway, Francis Bebey was there during that session between Baldwin and Achebe, which was a really historical meeting. I’ll come to a few more things regarding this historical meeting a bit later. Now, what is not mentioned here is the presence of a very important Congolese writer from





Brazzaville, not Kinshasa, yeah I’m not—Sony Lab'ou Tansi. Have you ever come across this name? S-O-N-Y, second name Lablou, L-A-B-O-U. Actually, I corresponded with him a number of years, and he told me afterwards that Lab’ou was his grandmother’s name. Tansi, T-A-N-S-I. And he was an emerging novelist. He also wrote plays. His first book, I believe, had just been published, La Vie et Demie. I can go through this title again if you like later. And he gave me a lovely, non-published poem during the conference, which I still have. Now, Sony passed a few years later, but Tchicaya U Tam'si, another very, very prominent poet and playwright and novelist from Congo had told me about Sony, I think previously at the UNESCO in Paris where I used to go and visit some of these writers. Anyway, and he had told me that he would be a star in African literature, which he became. So I wrote a little report, I wanted to mention, which I was asked to write on the annual meeting of the African Literature Association at the University of Florida, in Écriture Francaise, volume 3, number 5, 1981, page 9391. This is in French. And I went through all my issues. [Laughter] I do have some issues of Écriture Francaise, which no longer exists I believe. I think it was a Canadian publication. I would have to check on that, but I think it was Canadian. And I couldn’t find that particular issue. I may have the Xerox copy of the little article. If I find it, I will bring it. And then, I also know that one of our colleagues from the Anglophone world, Linda Susan Beard—maybe my colleagues told you about her? Linda Susan Beard, B-E-A-R-D. She also wrote— I can’t remember where she is now—a report on the annual meeting of, this





annual meeting. Let me see whether I have a note here. Oh yes, she is at Bryn Mawr, or Bryn Mawr? How do you pronounce it? B-R-Y-N?

	M:	Oh, Bryn Mawr.



	C:	Bryn Mawr! M-A-W-R. I’m [inaudible 10:13] I think she still is there. Well, it’s easy to check. And this article, which I couldn’t access on my computer, but it’s probably not very difficult. [Laughter] You have to do a few things. It’s in a journal called “English in Africa,” and I have the references here. Issue volume one, volume 8, 0301, 1981. Page ninety-four. So it’s probably worth reading. And I also have the ISSN: 0376-8902. Now, you probably found a photo or saw a photo of Baldwin and Achebe in St. Augustine. Do you have it, 1980?

	M:	I’ve seen it. I don’t know if we have a copy.



	C:	Yeah, it’s very easy to copy it. I copied it yesterday I think. Didn’t Hunt took them on a tour, or took Achebe on a tour? Did he tell you?

	M:	He didn’t mention that, I don’t think.



	C:	But I saw that the picture is of Baldwin and Achebe together, and they look very young and so nice. And it’s very easy to find. You can have a look at my note here where the exact reference is if you like, but this would be good to keep.

	M:	Yes.



	C:	And you must have heard the video with Achebe. An interview with Achebe. You told me you do. It’s very easy to find on internet. You seem to remember that you saw it. Now, it’s particularly interesting because in that interview, which I think is titled, “Insights in the African Diaspora with some of Baldwin’s Comments at the 1980 Yearly Meeting,” et cetera. Then I’ll tell you one of these comments in a





minute. The interview is not devoted exclusively to this meeting, but at one point, you probably remember this if you heard it, he talks about Baldwin as saying, during the talk at the University of Florida, “A brother I haven’t see in four hundred years.” Isn’t that something? You know, Baldwin was quite a guy. I suppose you have seen—a “guy,” I should say gentleman—I mean, he was an extraordinary person. Have you seen this marvelous movie, I Am Not Your Negro?

	M:	I have not. I should.



	C:	Oh! You’ve got to see it! It’s earthshaking. Raoul Peck, the Asian director, made the movie. It’s amazing. You should see it. It’s amazing. But what I wanted to mention is that in that video interview, Achebe did not mention, directly, the University of Florida. Now, Achebe obviously had an excellent memory, and we have gone through so much to invite these prominent writers that I’m pretty sure he knew which university he was talking about. But in the interview he spoke about a university somewhere in the South. And he doesn’t mention the terrible racist event that occurred at the Friday evening dinner at the Holiday Inn. So I understand you have the recordings, so I will not perhaps say more about that, but it was—I can’t tell you after having worked so hard on this conference for two years at least. I mean this happened to us! But forever, among many other things, I will remember Francis Bebey at the end of the table where we were all sitting. They brought up [inaudible 14:46] to speak, and all the attending people were, of course, spread all over the room at the Holiday Inn at the end of the dinner. So Francis Bebey rose, I don’t remember exactly at which moment;





probably after Baldwin’s reaction, which then started addressing America, you know, in a very theatrical kind of way. I can understand. And after Achebe, in a more subdued kind of tone, also had said, among other things, “Well, if you cannot accept criticism,” or something like that, and, “we just want to be acknowledged as human beings.” And you know Achebe always told this about the humanity of all men and women, et cetera, et cetera. So it was very moving. So Bebey, to go back to what I was going to say, got up from his chair, and by heart he started reciting a very well-known excerpt from Cesaire’s Return to My Native Land. And that excerpt says something like, “My heart does not make of me, this man of hatred, for whom I have only hatred.” “Mon coeur, ne faites point de moi cet homme de haine pour qui je n’ai que haine.” It’s a splendid excerpt from [inaudible 16:22]. But you have the recordings. And then I also saw that in The Cambridge Companion to James Baldwin, an important book edited by Michele—I’m not sure how to pronounce it, M-I-C-H-E-L-E. It’s not exactly spelt the French way. Elam. E-L-A-M. Published by Stanford University in 2016. The book present a chronology, of course, of Baldwin’s life. And only in 1980 it does mention—there’s a small reference—it does mention the University of Florida meeting in 1980. And then it says that that same year, if I remember correctly, Baldwin traveled to South America. It was very difficult—I go back to the book— selecting the papers. As I remember, nowadays, I don’t know if you are familiar a little bit with African Literature Association. I decided not to continue my membership last year, and I was a member all these years, but it has changed. The atmosphere obviously has changed tremendously. It went from a small





group with some extremely courageous people to start this with almost no money, no technical help, no—I could tell you a few things about the few people who started this association in the 1970s. It was very impressive. And it was a very friendly kind of group. And there was so much friendship between us in those days, women and men, et cetera, et cetera. But something very good, which happened over the years obviously, that now it’s crowded, literally, with African people—not only African American people. In those days there were lot of White people, of course in the beginning in the association. But nowadays, you have a lot of African people who either travel from time to time, who can travel, from all people who are already here and of course African American people.

And it has become enormous! So enormous that at each conference you have about four or five simultaneous sessions, that happens at many conferences, but for our conference, we thought it was pretty good that we had about two hundred registrants and twenty-two panels. [Laughter] So for that time, it was quite good; about four, five years after the foundation of the conference. And something which I’m not sure I remember very well—oh, I forgot to say that there was delegation of writers from the Union of Angolan Writers. That was very important. And in those days, we had panels in French, quite a lot; in English; perhaps in Portuguese. But I’m not too sure. Remember that, I don’t know exactly what we meant here, “Themes and techniques were proposed and illustrated in indigenous African languages and also in pigeon, Arabic, Spanish, and Portuguese, as well as the rather more predictable English and French.” Now I don’t remember these details because—I suppose if it is there, it was true—





because one thing, which I have regretted throughout the years, was that there were not even enough participation of African languages, or sessions in African languages. But you couldn’t hear. Your African-born languages, you wouldn’t hear very often in this association. And I and a few people tried to remedy this modestly. I remember organizing a big session once—Houston, or Morocco, I’m not sure now. But—Austin or Morocco, I’m not sure now. But anyway, where I had invited a number of people to present excerpts from literatures in African or Caribbean languages. It was quite nice. And I also tried something more ambitious which was rejected. [Laughter] So I won’t tell you now, because this is not part of our interview really, but that would have been for a conference at Wisconsin, Madison, for 1990. But anyway, that did not happen. And I had tried to organize sessions in African languages and so on. But anyway. So, in the introduction, the co-editors discussed a little bit the difficulty of choosing—and I started with this and I digressed—of choosing the papers, of course, because we didn’t have much money to publish an enormous book. And even though we had only twenty-two panels, we had quite a lot of papers. And so trying to decide which papers would fit with this very ambitious title, Trying to Define the African Aesthetic, was probably a headache; difficult. The introduction explains why, basically, there were three kinds of texts which were chosen, et cetera. But it’s easy to read the introduction, and I don’t know if you would be interested in hearing at least the title of each paper?

	M:	Sure, if you think it—





	C:	Well, it’s directly related to our conference. [Laughter] So the first one is, “Aesthetic Aspects in an African Ritual Setting.” I won’t go through the authors because it would take too long, perhaps. And then the second one was, “Kofi Awoonor, and the Ewe Tradition of Songs of Abuse,” called “Halo.” Then, a paper on a very famous Berber poet whose work were translated by a couple of creative writers from North Africa. The title is, “The Isefra—” I-S-E-F-R-A “—of Si Mohand-ou-Mhand: Songs of a Berber Poet interpreted by Mouloud Mammeri.”

S-I, M-O-H-A-N-D, O-U, hyphen, M-H-A-N-D. I don’t know why the “o” has disappeared in the last part of the name. Then another paper was in French: “Découverte de Sources Arabes de Continent Afrique de Nékékhaly Camara,” C- A-M-A-R-A. Now, “The Discovery of Arabic Sources from Continent Africa,” by well-known writers. They were very interesting papers frankly, the papers we published. “A Comparative View of the Korean Aesthetic of Victor Musinga: Cameroon’s Most Popular Playwright.” M-U-S-I-N-G-A. Then an article in French by a prominent person who happens to be, or is also a creative writer, but all these people are very interesting. “L’Appel de la Parole: Le Form d’une esthétique des Mythologies dans le Roman Africain de langue Française.” It’s a very ambitious paper, very interesting. “L’appel de la parole,” the call from the word, as if words were calling you to write on something. “L’appel de la parole,” “the forms of an aesthetic of mythologies used in the African novel of French language.” On the mythologies used in novels, extremely interesting. Then, “Of Traditional Tales and Short Stories.” Makes sense, since for a very long time, people in that kind of world have been very interesting in the link of modern forms





of African literatures to oral tradition. And actually now, I think they have a big group in the association working on oral tradition. But I think there are so many other things, now, to be studied apart from the link to oral tradition. Then, Amos Tutuola, you must have heard about Amos Tutuola? “Amos Tutuola’s Search for a Publisher.” Very interesting. And then, “From L’Enfant Noir,” as you know the very famous book, “From L’Enfant Noir to The Dark Child: The Drum Beat of Words Silenced.” Probably about—I don’t remember quite this article. Perhaps not a very good translation, the first translation. Anyway, Camara Laye. You remember L’Enfant Noir? Let’s see—yeah Camara Laye, a very well-known writer. One of the very first autobiographical works by an African writer. There were a lot of autobiographical works in the first period of francophone—and also anglophone—francophone African literature. It makes sense, you know. It’s actually amazing when you think that these first writers, writing in French in the twentieth century, were perhaps the first or second generation to go to school and learn how to write in any language, right? And that some of them, many of them, became very prominent intellectuals, journalists, teachers, creative writers. Then, “An Objective Approach to the Style of Chinua Achebe.” Finally, “Teaching Critical Perception of African Poetry.” So you see, it was quite an interesting selections of papers.

	M:	It sounds like it. Do you remember much about that process? C:	The process of selecting?

	M:	Yeah.





	C:	What I remember, [Laughter] that I started working on selecting the papers I thought were worth publishing. Very quickly after I had been given—I think Lemuel Johnson was director of the project. I’d been given the request to do so, and I waited and I waited for a long time before I heard anything about what was happening. I don’t know exactly when the other co-editors sent their selections, and right at this minute I honestly cannot tell you how many of the papers I had suggested there. I kept a lot of my papers when I retired, but I don’t think I have kept that particular file. Yeah. And then how we discussed among us which papers would finally be chosen, honestly, I do not remember. But I know that for me it sounded like forever, but in fact, when you consider how long nowadays your own articles take to be published, often, it was not that long; 1982. I don’t remember if I discussed with Mildred, because the two of us were here. We must have discussed a few times. And I’m sure at the very end there was some discussing among all of us. Is there anything else you’d like to know?

	M:	Sure. Well, if we can backtrack a little, you said you arrived here at UF in [19]74? C:	1974. Actually, I was interviewed—never been interviewed—but the Center for

African Studies has a weekly publication, and then some time ago they started interviewing people who had retired. I had a modest foot in African Studies. I’ve done a lot of work in Caribbean literature. And in those days, the department was called—my department—Romance Languages and Literatures. And now, the French section is part of that huge department called Languages, Literatures, and Cultures. Some time ago, they thought that interviewing retirees, and so I wrote and discussed with the lady, but I wrote answers to some questions. And I





did explain—I could have brought it to you, but I did explain a few things about what you just asked me. That I write in 1974, yes. I did my studies about twice in France and then United States. I arrived here after receiving a PhD in Comparative Literature from Cornell. And I have very, very fond memories of Cornell, which was a stupendous place in those days. I went there twice, actually. I left two years on a Fulbright, and then went back to France for two years, and then I came back. And I found myself right in the middle of several liberation movements, if you like, and during the Vietnam War. But so-called Black liberation, gay liberation, women’s liberation, and all kinds of events related to the Vietnam wars I just mentioned. And there was a kind of free atmosphere at Cornell. In those days—I shall always, always be grateful to the few professors who helped me do what I wanted to do. There were no courses whatsoever in African literature and Caribbean literature. And so when there were a couple of us who wanted to work in such areas, anglophone one friend of mine, and myself and another francophone and so on. And I was helped by some very intelligent professors who let me build a very unorthodox program, let me take independent studies, and I worked all by myself. Of course they would sign independent studies, let me go from one department to the other. I had a minor in Cultural Anthropology for the PhD and so on. It was an amazing experience, really. And being at Cornell in those days. And I wrote my dissertation, practically by myself, but I discussed with the director eventually, of course; his name was Steven Grosfoguel. And William Kennedy helped me a lot also, and Fay Louis, and other people, obviously. And so I wrote this dissertation on Caribbean writer from





Martinique, Aimé Césaire, the prominent writer who was also a politician. And I actually just came back from Martinique in June; I hadn’t been there since 2013, where we had a big conference on Aimé Césaire’s work following his death— although he died a few years ago, but there was a conference in his honor. And so this time that was the annual meeting of the International Council for Francophone Studies, and it had taken place at the university there. So I saw lots of old friends, and et cetera. I have a soft spot for the so-called French- Caribbean Islands. And anyway, this has been a long journey because in those days, believe me, trying to convince people that you wanted to teach French- language Caribbean and African literature in a department of romance languages and literatures was not an easy task. And I started teaching such a field—and I also tried to teach such works in a comparative kind of perspective, introducing some work from North Africa—in 1974-[19]75. And I had some excellent students, undergraduate and graduate; people became very interested. But what was much more difficult was to have this field accepted as a full-fledged field. I could talk to you a lot about that. Before I was able to add a few titles, to MAs and PhDs—I don’t really know what they do now, but it was quite something. [Laughter] But I am very, very happy that we did what we could, or I did what I could. Except nowadays—I retired in 2007—no one teaches Caribbean literature, French-speaking, French-language Caribbean literature, and I was not replaced. And the African side was taken over a couple of years before I retired here by Alioune Sow, who is very competent in Sub-Saharan Africa. And we have an excellent linguist for Haitian-Creole, Benjamin Hebblethwaite. But this is not the





same thing as having a comparative kind of view of—not the “African aesthetic,” something much more complex than that. But teaching Caribbean sometimes by itself is richer sometimes might [inaudible 39:05] by itself. My former colleague Brigitte Weltman-Aron takes care of—although I don’t know exactly what she does now. But in Florida, at the University of Florida, French-language Caribbean literature is no longer taught. It’s really very disappointing, to say the least. And lots of people don’t know that. I don’t advertise it too much because it hurts me! [Laughter]

	M:	I can understand. So around the time you arrived here, I know Dr. Hill Lubin said that another issue was the library actually having the books to even offer for students to look at. Do you remember any issues with resources and things?

	C:	Not really. But I know that I started trying to order a lot of books, and I still do actually. Each time I get the chance, I get in touch with the librarian who is a very competent person for French, and I tell her to order this and order that. Right now I’m working on an excellent creative writer whom we managed to invite here; the France-Florida Research Institute, directed by Alioune Sow right now, has a little money to invite people from time to time, writers or researchers and so on. And so I never dare to suggest anyone, because I’ve been retired for ten years. But I started talking to Alioune about Michael Farrier, this person, and he said, “Well, I think we could perhaps try to invite him.” Now, this man has an extraordinary background. He’s a French citizen. He was born in Strasbourg with an ancestral background which is very diverse; French and also the Indian Ocean: Mauritius, Madagascar, and even India. And this man has been teaching at Chuo University





in Japan for twenty, twenty-five years. So he’s a polyglot, he’s a researcher, professor, and he’s becoming a very well-known creative writer. And so you see, this is a link to my interests: Caribbean, Indian-Ocean, et cetera. I actually presented a paper in Martinique on some of his works, and I’m going to present another paper on his work in Scotland in September. And this man, among other things, has written about Fukushima—you know, the tragedy of 2011? They were there. And he and somebody else were so courageous they decided to bring food and water and so on to try. They put this in a van, and they traveled to the devastated area trying to help. And a book came out of this, which is astounding! And this book has been turned into several plays, and one of them was presented at the Avignon Festival last year. And perhaps we’ll see this production in Scotland, and translated into many languages. What I want to say is that the hexagon, as we call them in France, is far from being the center of the world and the center of the French works which are produced in French. [Laughter] I have a big battle with the word “francophone” but I won’t bother you with this, the “French-francophone” dichotomy, which I find very naïve.

	M:	I think I can understand that. Let’s see. How did this meeting come about? How did that conversation start? ‘Cause you said it took about two years—

	C:	Or even more, yeah. I don’t know who started it. Mildred Hill was the Assistant Dean at the time. Hunt was the new director, and I think Haig Der-Houssikian; H- A-I-G, D-E-R—H-O-U-S-S-I-K-I-A-N, who was the first director of the Center for African Studies when I was hired here. And when I came for an interview, the chair of the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, whose name





was Wayne Conner, a very well-known chair. He was a chair for many years. W- A-Y-N-E; he had another first name, middle name; C-O-N-N-E-R. Anyway, told me that they would very much like me to meet Haig Der-Houssikian because they thought that perhaps I could contribute something to the Center for African Studies, except that no one in those days was very interested, around the center, interested in taking courses in French. I remember teaching one course in English within the Center for African Studies about Fanon and a few other people. Of course I said I would be interested, and I think that Haig Der- Houssikian must have suggested that someday we should have the meeting of the African Literature Association. When he said that, I was getting interested, and that Mildred Hill-Lubin had planned to teach some works from the Anglophone world there. It might have started like this, yeah, I think. And so, I communicated with her. As I told you, it was a very small group, and we all knew each other and talked to each other and so on. And so I think that’s the way it started.

	M:	Okay.



	C:	And we had organized for that meeting—I worked a lot on this by myself, I remember, with my little typewriter. We had organized a kind of big, how can I say this? Sale of books, an exhibition of books. I worked a lot trying to get books from Africa. It was very difficult. And also records. Francis Bebey brought records which we sold, his own records. And I was in a very frequent touch with Roger Dorsinville. Roger Dorsinville was a prominent Haitian creative writer and also an important person in Dakar at the—I can’t remember the name of that publishing





house right at this minute which they had in Dakar, where they published a lot of African, obviously, creative books. Now Roger Dorsinville—maybe La Nouvelle Edition Africaine, perhaps—I met him in 1978, when I went to Senegal. And we talked about the book. I had published on Cesaire, actually, by then, and then we talked and we had a very, very nice encounter. He was a Haitian creative writer and intellectual who had lived as an exile in Africa for a number of years. He’s now—well he would be quite old. No, he wouldn’t be alive now. And I think, and I must have started telling him, “I would very much like to try and sell some of your books,” and something terrible happened. Oh, it was so painful! His books arrived too late for the conference! Now, first of all, we had some money so that he would be one of the guests; Roger Dorsinville. Now, he had not understood that the deal was that these writers would spend a few weeks, perhaps, in the United States touring. Maybe Mildred Hill-Lubin gave you the name of that association or organization which provided the money? I’m not sure.

	M:	I did that interview a while ago. I don’t recall.



	C:	But anyway I don’t remember myself. But Roger was not very young yet, and he had understood that he would be welcomed in Miami, which was not really the case. We would have arranged the trip to Gainesville. And also he had not understood that they would have to spend six weeks. He said quite late that he could not make it, but that he would send the books. The books arrived too late! But we received other books from other publishers. It was very difficult to organize. And I managed to communicate with him. There was no computers in those days. It was difficult. And I said, “Dear Roger Dorsinville, what should I do?





Your books arrived too late.” And Hunt—of course I understand Hunt—could not possibly keep these books. He didn’t know what to do, and he sent them back immediately to—he started doing the necessary kind of work you had to do to send them back to Senegal. And at the same time, I received a note from Roger Dorsinville saying, “No, no! Offer them to your library, or try to get your library to buy some of them, et cetera. But please don’t send them back! It’s going to cost a fortune!” So I spent I can’t tell you how much time trying to locate these books before they left the country! [Laughter] And I found them, somewhere in a storage room in Jacksonville just before they—. I don’t know how I could do that, because I did this all by myself. I don’t know. And I told Hunt, “That’s the way it is. I don’t want these books.” Roshid said. So I managed to have the library buy a number of these books. The library bought, and I bought some of these books myself, and that’s it. But can you imagine how terrible that was, after working so hard, to receive these books too late?

	M:	That is.



	C:	But anyway, you have to accept such things. What can you do? But I was very happy to be able to get them back before they were sent over to Africa.

	M:	I imagine that. That reminds me of one other thing that kind of went wrong with the Baldwin-Achebe meeting. I’m skipping ahead, I had a couple other questions; but to my understanding, they were supposed to speak to open the conference and they didn’t arrive yet. I remember—





	C:	Ah! This I don’t remember. But you know, what you are telling me means that perhaps they wouldn’t have talked at the banquet? The plenary session would have been at the beginning of the conference?

	M:	That they had attended that, and had to move it I think. But yeah.



	C:	Ah! Well maybe the whole sad event wouldn’t have happened! You know, we’ll never know. Oh, I see. I don’t remember this.

	M:	Okay. I just thought I’d ask about that.



	C:	That was a lot of work for everybody. And you know Hunt had a good secretary, I remember, who helped us, of course. Yeah, it was not easy. But nowadays when a university organizes this kind of conference, it becomes so enormous that it must be even more difficult. And also finding the—nowadays, very often too, institutions work together. Well anyway, you had other questions?

	M:	Well sure. So how did the actual Baldwin and Achebe part—where did that idea come from to bring them together—and both of them is the part that’s staggering to me, is it’s not just the one or the other, because that would already be a draw. But getting both—

	C:	Well someone must have realized they had never met in the flesh, so to speak. I don’t know who decided that. I don’t know if Hunt and Haag and perhaps Mildred, I don’t know, discussed this with the presidents of the African Literature Association at the time? I am not sure. Did you ask Hunt? Did you ask Mildred?

	M:	Yeah, I’ve asked a little bit. I don’t think anyone’s been too sure quite where the idea came from.





	C:	But you know, we probably thought about bringing here very prominent people. And they were all very prominent. And you know Achebe and Baldwin, since we always wanted in those days, and now, to have African American people included, Achebe and Baldwin in those days must have come up to people’s minds very easily. And then, we may have realized that they have actually never met physically. And frankly, I don’t know. I don’t know if anyone ever discussed that with me. I can’t remember. I do not remember. But we may have received suggestions from the Association itself. I don’t know. We always wanted to have some Angolan—as I told you, Portuguese-speaking, some French speaking writers, so Francis Bebey, and Sony Lab’ou Tansi was emerging. He was going to become a very prominent creative writer from Sub-Saharan Africa. We also tried to get Mongo Beti. And this is another long story. [Laughter] Last time I saw Mongo Beti was in Tunisia in 2000 at a conference, the International Council for Francophone Studies. I just went to Martinique with that association. And we became good friends again. But we had a difficult moment with Mongo Beti because one of—you see, among prominent writers obviously; Mongo Beti, it would have been marvelous to get Mongo Beti. And one of the conditions—which I’m sure we had to receive the money we received to get these people, pay for the traveling and the stay here—was that they had to be in Africa. Now, Baldwin we must have—for some of these people, we may have had the money from other sources. But for the African—. So Roger Dorsinville was originally Haitian, but he lived in Dakar; Achebe, well, Achebe went from one place to the other, but I don’t know. But Mongo Beti was severely wounded, mentally, emotionally





because we had to tell him rather late that he could not come. We could not provide money because he was living in France, I think, at the time. But, but, I personally, when I kind of corresponded with him, I don’t think I had told him it was absolutely sure that we could have him come. And someone told him a bit too hastily, I think. But he was so angry; you have no idea. And at another conference where I heard him speak, he said that there was something fishy about this half-invitation. He sort of suspected something which was completely untrue about perhaps some darkish political reasons why we wouldn’t have. It was very painful for me, because I was in the room when he talked about this! [Laughter] And my friends from the African Literature Association knew, of course, that what he was saying was absolutely untrue. And somehow, perhaps because I was the person who spoke French with him, he emphasized the role perhaps. It was completely ridiculous, of course. It was simply that we could not have someone who did not live in Africa take advantage of this money. That was it. And he wrote me a very difficult letter to swallow, but eventually we became friends again as I said. The last time I saw him in Tunisia, I think we had a fairly good talk. So he was hurt. He was hurt. So that would have been another prominent writer we would have had.

	M:	That’s quite a conference. It seems to me, I don’t know what your thoughts are, I don’t know of UF having many other events quite like that.

	C:	It was amazing.



	M:	Here in Gainesville, no less.





	C:	Such prominent writers! And I have attended many of these African Literature Association conferences since 1975, and I have noticed that it is quite rare to now have so many prominent creative writers together the same year. And to achieve this in 1980, that was quite something, I think. Retrospectively, when I think about—I remember very interesting meeting we had in Virginia years ago. Was it in Richmond? But where we had such prominent people as Dongala, as Nadine Gordimer. Two or three but not—ugh! Assia Djebar we had a couple of times.

	M:	And so, you’ve mentioned the issues with funding. How did you find the funding for this? Do you remember that part of—?

	C:	Well I just told you that I don’t remember the exact name of the organization which provided the greatest amount of money. I told you a while ago. I didn’t think about it when I thought about this interview, and it’s probably in the program. You don’t have the program?

	M:	I don’t have the program.



	C:	Because we have to mention who is helping. We received some money from the University of Florida, you see, but not for the traveling. And Mildred did not remember? Because she did take quite a—

	M:	Well as I said, the interview I did with her was a while ago. So, I don’t recall. C:	So you didn’t take note. And Hunt does not know?

	M:	He didn’t remember much about that at all.



	C:	Maybe Haag would know, but Haag is not in town right now. He’s leaving for Colorado and he’s no longer involved with the university anyway, even though





he’s in Gainesville. If I have the courage to go through all my files, I will try to find this program. I’m pretty sure I kept it. And don’t you think we have to mention this on the program?

M:   I would think so.



	C:	So if I find something interesting, I’ll let you know. M:	Okay.

	C:	Because that would be important. I agree with you. It’s too bad that I don’t remember. It’s not the—no. Was it before we published this? I’m not too sure. But I remember that Steven Arnold, who was one of the very efficient men who worked on the African Literature Association in the first years; Steven Arnold, with Thomas Hale, and with Dennis Brutus, another important creative writer who came very often to the conference, et cetera. You know Dennis Brutus, the poet from South Africa? He died a few years ago.

	M:	I know the name but not the work.



	C:	But anyway, Steven Arnold. I don’t remember if it was directly related to the publication of this book, but I remember that probably we must have been in touch all the time with the heads of the African Literature Association at the time. So Steven Arnold, who is still alive, but he lives in Canada, very far. In Alberta, I think. I saw him a few years ago at the African Literature Association in Charleston, I believe, where he was honored with some kind of special ceremony for his work. He asked me personally, “Could you try to get us some money”— but that was after the conference—“from the University of Florida for the publication?” Because we had to give some money to Three Continents Press.





“And any penny will help, any penny. We have nothing, et cetera.” So I went to see this marvelous dean. Oh, could you help me find her name? A lady who died. Ruth McQuown?

	M:	Oh, yes, yes.



	C:	And I decided to go and see her. And I said, “Dean McQuown,” and I explained— yeah, I think this was for the publication! “Could you try to get us a few pennies?” And I remember that she promised very nicely and warmly four hundred dollars, which at the time was something. And so I told Steven, “Yeah I got you four hundred dollars.” And so, that was a little, little help. But nothing to do with the amount of money we had to get to get those writers to come; you can imagine!

And after this terrible event at the banquet, I don’t know where we found this energy. But we had a marvelous band at the Holiday Inn, and so this had been arranged ahead of time. But I mean, I don’t know where we found the energy to start dancing. Because we always have a dance at the African Literature Association—or in the old days anyway we used to, but I think they still do—after the banquet at the final dinner. And we all danced after this terrible event! [Laughter] I remember in the Holiday Inn. A marvelous band we had.

	M:	That is good to hear. I mean, that event itself, what was the crowd reaction? Did people—?

	C:	Oh, it would be nice to interview them. I think they saved the face pretty well. I remember that soon afterwards, I burst out crying like mad. [Laughter] And Lemuel Johnson very kindly embraced me, and he said, “Oh!” I said, “Well I think that we’ve neem working for two or three years, and that that should happen to





us in Gainesville, Florida!” People were very nice to the organizers, us, and— frankly. Apart from this, I know that I was so terribly shaken up. I mean, it was quite a blow for me, really. But a few minutes later, I decided to go ahead and I started dancing with a few people. Aloin, my companion, my husband, and Sony Lab’ou Tansi. I remember dancing with Sony Lab’ou Tansi and a few other people. And lots of people were upset, obviously. You know. But they were on the whole, very nice. And it was a very educational kind of moment, being in the South. We wouldn’t have imagined that this would happen in Gainesville.

	M:	I suppose that’s—wouldn’t have imagined quite that happening anyway. You don’t have issues at the loudspeaker quite like that most of the time.

	C:	Wait, you didn’t ask Hunt too much about his interpretation? M:	Oh no, he offered his interpretation.

	C:	No, I know, but did you ask him why came to have this interpretation?



	M:	He didn’t, he just offered it as a—I mean, Dr. Hill-Lubin also offered a similar possible interpretation. She seemed to have few thoughts in mind.

	C:	Hunt relates this not perhaps directly to Baldwin, but to his staff, or—? I doubt it. M:	There was a film crew or something?

	C:	Huh?



	M:	There was a film crew with him or something. C:	Oh, yeah, I remember that. Hunt. . . I doubt it.

	M:	You thought Baldwin’s anger was a real and honest reaction to the—



	C:	Yeah. But remember, Baldwin was an excellent actor. No, but I don’t believe that personally. You know. And Achebe was obviously so amazed and surprised! No,





I don’t believe—why would he do that? No, I don’t believe that. But I wish that someone had found out what happened. Maybe someone knows or knew. You know? It’s something. But you are too young to remember that. I don’t know how long you have been here.

	M:	Well, I was born a year after the conference.



	C:	Yeah I know, but I was going to talk about something else; was it in 1990 that there was a horrible event in Gainesville? You know each year, there is a commemoration of the Holocaust. Do they still have this in the Jewish community in Gainesville, one day?

	M:	I think so. I’m not sure.



	C:	One day there was a very, very sad series of events. Neo-Nazis started demonstrating in town on that particular day. I understand that, someone told me, some of Hitler’s words or speeches were circulated on the main square, downtown Gainesville, and that these people came from Melrose perhaps? I remember vaguely now. My husband, who was African American, told me very intelligently, and we agreed, that the best thing to do is not to go to listen to those jerks and racists! He said it should be completely deserted, silent. Let them scream their dirt out of their ugly mouths, and we should not go there. And we didn’t go. Lots of people went there, of course, demonstrating against, this demonstration and so on and so forth. So, there have been little events, you know, in Gainesville. I remember a colleague telling me a very long time ago that his wife had been approached by a Ku Klux Klan woman. But that’s ages ago.

I’ve been here since 1974, you know. So the song of the swan, obviously. But.





And one day—I don’t remember the date and I don’t know who did that—but I walked into my classroom a long time ago, quite early in the morning, and my blackboard was covered in racist statements. Couching the most vulgar words you can think of, directed against Haitians, Arabs and “niggers.” But you know, I don’t know if you heard some of the words which we heard during the conference, and then that evening. “Niggers, we’re going to come and get you.” That type of thing? Right, you have the recording. My students were all very silent. No one said anything at all. I had no reason to believe that any of the students was involved in this kind of thing. I had two seconds to make a decision. Either, what? Call the police? Call a journalist? I didn’t have a cellphone. In those days, we had nothing. Make a speech? I didn’t know what to do. So, I decided to erase very quickly. I said, “I’m going to erase this with my shirt if need be, but I’m going to erase it.” I said to the students, “I’m going to write a letter to the president of this university. And if any one of you would like to sign this letter to explain?” An Iranian student raised her hand. I remember very well, she was the only one. But she said that, “I will sign the letter with you, ma’am.” So since she was the only one, I did not want her to sign by herself. Either the class en masse. I think they were a little bit timid, you know. It could’ve been at Cornell! [Laughter] In the [19]60s and [19]70s, I can tell you, their reaction would’ve been different.

So, I did write my letter. The president was Criser at the time, I think. He was a lawyer, and they responded to me. And actually, Dean Sittman talked to me a little bit. They wanted to know if there was anything personal. No, there was nothing personal. I mean, my husband was African American, but I didn’t think it





was anything personal. I don’t know what happened, really. But Criser was a lawyer, and he was very careful. I remember very well that in his letter, he used the same words I had used very carefully. “You discovered this. You saw that.” You know, lawyer. He said, “This is a very rare happening usually in a university environment. The other people are friendly, et cetera, et cetera.” But, I saw that afterwards, each time I would get in my classroom in the morning, there was a special maintenance person who would open the door to me. It was locked. You know, a few little events like this. You know. Interesting, isn’t it?

	M:	It is at that. If I can ask, though, so you had been teaching here a few years prior to the conference.

	C:	[19]74, 1980. Six years, almost.



	M:	Well a loose few, but yes. What was the effect of the conference? Did it have a lasting effect on UF in terms of—you talk about the difficulty of getting people to accept that you were trying to teach these courses and some other things. Was there any effect from the conference?

	C:	On creating a real program, yes. And also, I was not asked very often to teach that courses. And I taught a lot a lot of courses that had nothing to do—. I don’t think so, honestly. And a thing I forgot to mention was that only one colleague, who died a few years ago, from my department attended one session of the conference. The Department of Romance Languages and Literature didn’t show much interest at all. And that was quite an event we had! Can you imagine? It was very weird. And I had invited my chairman with my own money and his wife. They came very nicely to the dinner. They came, and I decided to take a room on





campus at the Reitz Union, which I paid by myself for the duration of the conference, but that was my responsibility. I wanted to do it because I lived a bit far, and I wanted to be here twenty-four hours a day. And so, I got a room here. But I cannot tell you that the participation from my department was very big. No. I’m not sure that there was an enormous effect of my department afterwards.

Perhaps in English. Did you ask Mildred or Hunt?



	M:	Mildred felt that there was some, and I guess it helped the Center for African Studies, or that’s what Hunt thought just because they were, you know.

	C:	Center for African Studies, but you that became more, the Center for African Studies became more and more well known and prominent in the United States. It’s the major institution in the South, you know. Definitely. But you know, I cannot stand this kind of separation, dichotomy, artificial separation between fields, between people, and so on and so forth. For me, it doesn’t make any sense at all. I have always hoped that we would become more and more interdisciplinary, and so on and so forth. But it’s not really, except little by little. But no, not an enormous impact, I think. On my department, no.

	M:	What was the UF participation in the conference? From your department, very few people went.

	C:	No one apart from one person. Well, probably African Studies, yeah. M:	That’s it?

	C:	Perhaps some people from English. I don’t know. M:	Any UF students, or—?





	C:	I don’t recall. Any of my students? No. I don’t remember seeing any of my students. But you know in those days, such literature sounded very outlandish. It’s amazing when you think about it. Like, you know, in the Caribbean, there are some of the most important thinkers. Some of the writers I’ve been working on for years and years, are among the most important thinkers in the French-speaking world. For instance, to speak only of the French-speaking islands; and of course Derek Walcott writes in English, but he’s also extremely prominent. He died some time ago. Now, Aimé Césaire, on whom I wrote a lot, is now dead. And Edouard Glissant, on whom I worked a lot, is now dead. But nowadays, of course, a lot of people talk about these writers. It’s a fashion, almost. Many people don’t realize how important their thought has been for many decades, you know? And what these people have contributed to contemporary thought. Well, this is academe. But, I’m sorry I don’t have many more answers to your question. I really don’t know if many people from the English department attended. I don’t remember, I don’t know. And then, my mind must have been also very absorbed by all of the things I had to attend to, you know? But students from African Studies probably. It’s a long time ago.

	M:	Oh, of course. We can only ask and, you know, what you remember you remember. You did say you had some more comments on the African aesthetic theme. Is there anything else you would want to share about that, in terms of why that may have been a more—I don’t want to say relevant kind of theme of the conference at the time, but why it sort of suited the times in your mind?





	C:	I think that for a very long time, there was the conviction that we should have an Africanist approach or African-centered approach, to creativity, perhaps. Which I think is not kosher. I mean, it does not resonate with something which I believe very, very much. Unless perhaps, as I said many times, you take the indigenous languages and literatures seriously. The second you start dealing with anglophone and francophone literature, you know a priori that there will be a mix of influences, you know? You are dealing with written tradition and so on and so forth. And that you don’t know what an Africa-oriented approach is all about unless you are interested in literature from a strictly anthropological attitude or dimension, or sociological dimension. You are mixing apples and oranges. Of course, history and anthropology are very important, and especially if you deal with a corpus of literature which is still attached to oral tradition more than European literature would be nowadays. But you cannot continue to talk in such terms forever. So, I have the impression that when we talked about the African aesthetic, we tended—I’ve never been like this, but I’ll say “we” because, after all—we tended to conceive of Africa as something very different, perhaps, you know? From the rest of the world, or at least from Europe, et cetera. But then, when you would talk to colleagues about what their so-called Africa-oriented approach meant, especially if they rejected contemporary literary theory from the United States or France or et cetera, you didn’t get many, many interesting responses. Although I think that these articles have been very well chosen, because they do address some specificities, I think, regarding some particular works by some particular artists, et cetera. I am not sure that the expression





“African aesthetic” makes a lot of sense; even less now than it did then. And if you think of how gigantic Africa is, and also the culture is never fixed, you know; nowadays, that old culture is all so intricately mixed one with another, and the exchanges are so important and so on, that it’s difficult to talk in such terms. But something which I’ve said several times, is that I have noticed that many people who claim to be interested in artistic creativity, or literary creativity, or literature in general, do not seem to have a great interest in creative literature. Which is paradoxical. But I have noticed often that in such meetings nowadays, perhaps even more than then, you hear a lot of comments which are not really interested in a creative literature per se, or defining what, for instance, poeticity is all about; but comments which are a mix of sociological remarks or political remarks, of thematic dimensions of this work and that work, and which miss the point. You know? It’s extremely difficult to speak about creative literature and art in general. By doing this, of course there is a political dimension, a societal dimension to literature. We all know that. But the way creative literature works is not the same way a book of history would work, or a political statement would work, or of course, the right political action. This is something else. And Edouard Glissant, this very prominent writer, on whom I worked a lot and who died a few years ago, has terrific comments, among many other comments, about the way, for instance, poetry works. I remember one of his sentences, which I quoted some time ago actually, in an article. He says, “Poetry creates upheavals which change us.” You see? Creative literature is going to change you, and not the world. Then by changing you, perhaps, you will try to do something to change something





about your environment. “La poésie engendre des bouleversements qui nous changent,” he says. I don’t know if you know French, but sort of I translated it roughly. Even now, and perhaps more than then, I think that in such circles around the African Literature Association, you have a lot of jargon. [Laughter] Which are not always very much to the point, and which to help too much.

Because you know very well then there is a kind of mentality which does not help to promote literature departments and literature specialists, creative literature.

That more and more, language and literature sections are being narrowed down. And then, I wonder what’s going to happen to literary sections in the future, you know? I’m worried about that.

	M:	It’s a fair question. Well, I guess that would be another topic. I actually have a masters in comparative literature, so—

	C:	Oh you do. So you must have thought a lot about that.



	M:	I’ve definitely given it some thought. I moved from literature into anthropology, so—

	C:	The two are related, no doubt about that. But—.



	M:	Yeah. A lot of fields have some similar discussions. It’s funny that there seems to be a move toward more interdisciplinarity and yet more narrowness at the same time. It’s sort of a paradoxical thing in my mind. But—

	C:	But you know that in comparative literature for many years, only European literatures in the [inaudible 1:30:03] were being considered, which is hilarious. But I myself do not know any non-Western language. Therefore, I’m saying this with humility, you know. [Laughter] But I know some people, younger scholars—





I’m thinking especially about one person I know—who are very, very proficient in, for instance, Chinese, Arabic, Korean, learning Vietnamese now, several European languages: French, Spanish, German, Italian, and I am thinking of that particular person who’s in comparative literature, a scholar from the North [inaudible 1:31:00] fifty, fifty-two. And the kind of work such a person is able to produce as a comparativist, you would say in English? Comparativist? Is amazing in comparison to what some people who know only two or three languages from Europe can do. If such a person, of course, has the ability to study not only the languages but the history of the culture, and the body of literature obviously, and et cetera, et cetera. It’s not the question of learning the language, period, as you know. But, pff! It’s amazing what some people do, really.

	M:	It’s true. It’s true. I did have two more questions about the event if that’s okay.



The one is just, did you interact much with Baldwin or Achebe personally?



	C:	No. Unfortunately, I did not. No, because maybe we would’ve interacted much more if this terrible event had not—I mean, the event, not the African Literature Association event itself, but that—had not occurred. Because I was sitting next to Achebe, and I was hoping I could talk to him afterwards, and Baldwin was a bit farther. But you know, that was—. Then the following day, I think, Hunt took Achebe somewhere? So I didn’t see them, so I did not interact. And when I saw this marvelous movie, “I Am Not Your Negro,” of course, I remembered all these things. And when I was young—all my first degrees are in English, and American, and Irish literature, from France. So, I read quite a lot of African





American literature when I was young. Of course, I read some of Baldwin’s works, as everybody does and so on. And when I saw this movie, it reminded me so much of the conference. No, I did not. Did Mildred talk a lot to Baldwin?

Before perhaps?



	M:	She interacted with him a fair bit.



	C:	I did not. I think I would have talked to them afterwards if that had not happened. It upset me so, so much. And I don’t know what they did; they disappeared from the scene rather rapidly afterwards, I think, after the dinner.

M:  Okay. That makes sense. The other question, I was wondering: aside from that moment, are there any other memories you have of the event itself of what they had to say, or what their discussion was?

	C:	No, I don’t. I think Achebe did talk about African culture as you could expect. And I remember one particular paragraph in which he insisted about the role of African women in African culture, and that they were much more the center of African culture and African lives than people would usually proclaim or believe—I mean, “people”; outsiders. This I remember. Baldwin I don’t. Baldwin was interrupted pretty quickly, I think. You do have the recording, so you know. I would love to hear it.

	M:	We’ll be happy to send a copy of it. I was just wondering if you had any personal recollections or favorite moments or anything like that.

	C:	No. Unfortunately, I did not talk to those two. I talked to Francis Bebey more. Kofi Awoonor, I think he was here. I did talk to Sony Lab’ou Tansi a little bit. As I said,





he gave me one of his poems, which I still have somewhere. Non-published poems at the time.

	M:	What were your interactions with Bebey like?



	C:	Well as I said, my husband being a musician, and Bebey participating as a musician at festival, the two of them started interacting quite well. Francis gave my husband a book about African music, I think. I still have this book somewhere. He thought my husband looked Yoruba a little bit. I don’t know if my husband was African-like, and he also had Native American ancestry. But I don’t know if that was a joke, or that was—. So, it’s dedicated to “My Yoruba brother,” the book. We did talk together. I had met Francis Bebey at his home in Paris where I went to officially invite him to the conference. Ah, yeah. This came back to me some time before. We had had a very nice talk about various things, and he said he would like to try and come. When he was here, as I said, my husband invited him to come to his studio in the music building, and they played Bach for him. They became friends, and they saw each other again as I told you. And so, I felt very friendly toward Francis Bebey, and the two of us talked about his records which he wrote. I had French students who took care of selling the records to people. I wanted to give him a neat record of what we had sold and how much money we had made with this. And he took the bunch of dollars and say, “Bernadette, I don’t—no, no. I don’t need to need to know that. Of course I trust you!” And he put his money in his pocket and we did not go into details at all. He was a very, very friendly person. And his intervention at the African festival was really marvelous. We had a lot of people at the African Festival. We





also had Evrine Akkard from Lebanon. She was also a song composer, and she sang at the African Festival, which was awfully nice. We had another gentlemen whose name I can’t remember. He was blind. Mildred would know his name.

Very well-known African American man; he died. He had an extraordinary sensitivity, I can remember, because he sort of understood, a little bit, the kind of person I was. You know blind people sometimes, they have some kind of sensitivity, I don’t know. And we talked. I can’t remember his name, but I’m sure Mildred remember. And also, we had tried to Marys Condé—it’s all coming back to me now—Marys Condé from Guadeloupe and France. Do you know of this writer? A very famous writer, Marys Condé. And I went to see her in Paris also, or near Paris, where she had an apartment. I said, “We would very much like you to come, but we have only five hundred dollars altogether. [Laughter] And so, that would pay not even half your fare!” She was so nice. Yes, I went to see these people in Paris, trying to invite them. And she said—and I also went to see another one! You see, things are coming back to me now. She said, “I try to come. I’ll try to come.” And later on, I received a very nice postcard telling me that she had to have surgery. Not very, very serious, but she had to have surgery and that she couldn’t come. And we also tried to get Ousmane Sembène. Did Mildred tell you?

	M:	I don’t recall if she did or not.



	C:	I went to Dakar in 1978 as I told you, and I went to talk to Roger Dorsinville, this man who didn’t come, finally, but who sent his books. And I don’t remember if I talked to him about the conference at the time. But I went to visit Ousmane





Sembène and his US wife, second wife, near Dakar. They have a very nice villa there, and they invited me to have lunch with them. They had their young child. I remember waiting forever for them to come, and the lady was preparing the lunch was there. And then he came with his wife—what was her name? I can’t even remember. Anyway, I must have talked to him about the conference then. I don’t remember why he didn’t come. We tried to get him. Did Mildred tell you?

No?



	M:	I don’t recall. I can ask.



	C:	Do you realize the kind of people we tried to get? M:	Yeah. [Laughter]

	C:	It’s amazing! [Laughter] Isn’t it? And it’s a pity that Marys Condé didn’t come, because—by the way, women writers were not there. I just thought about it. But Marys Condé couldn’t come. So, Ousmane Sembène didn’t come. I don’t remember now why he didn’t come, but he didn’t come. We had an interesting little conversation in Dakar. He and his wife wanted me to taste the déjeuner, the lunch, the African way. They had a lot of furniture in their house, tables and so on, but we ate on the floor, you know, with the big bowl in the center. That was very nice. I don’t remember exactly what we talked about that day, but I was there also to try and invite him. We did try to get a lot of people. You see, if Marys Condé had come, if Mongo Beti had come, if Ousmane Sembène had come, can you imagine?

	M:	No! [Laughter]



	C:	It was quite a feat.





	M:	Yeah, that it is. Did anyone have to travel to see Achebe? I guess he was living in Nigeria then, or is that?

	C:	No idea. As I said, it’s probably very easy to find out. I don’t know if Achebe was in the United States at the time or somewhere else. If he was not in Nigeria or in Africa, we had to find another way to finance his coming, apart from that particular association or organization; I can’t remember what it was now. But I tried to find a program. Maybe it’s on there. It should be on there. Now, I don’t know if anyone had to—for Baldwin, I don’t either. We got him. But Mildred doesn’t remember?

	M:	I don’t know if I asked that question. I didn’t realize that anyone would’ve gone abroad to speak to people in different places to see—

	C:	I had planned a trip to France, probably. And so, you know. M:	And so, just as part of—

	C:	And so, two years before, I had decided to go do some research in Senegal. So Roger Dorsinville and Ousmane Sembène, they were not that difficult to contact. Oh yeah, I think I wanted to talk to Sembène about his journal. You know he had started a journal in—was it him? In Wolof? Kaddu? Am I confusing?

	M:	I don’t know much about starting a journal, but I believe it.



	C:	Yeah, maybe I thought I talked about it. Anyway, I don’t know who contacted Baldwin and Achebe, but Mildred should remember. Maybe the president of the African Literature Association, perhaps? I don’t know.

	M:	It could be. It makes sense.





	C:	I had some meetings with Mildred, because we co-conveners, and she considered herself the head of the little committee because she was a bit older than I was. She was an assistant dean. We must have discussed this at one point, but I don’t remember.

	M:	That’s understandable. I think we’ve covered a lot of ground here. We could probably close out the interview. But is there anything else that I didn’t ask about, or anything else you would like to mention?

	C:	No, I think that’s it.



	M:	Well, thank you very much. It’s been a pleasure.



C:  Thank you to you, because very interesting. Do you want to keep this? M:  Sure!

C:  I’m sorry, I didn’t have time to type it this morning. I did this this morning. One and two, so you can have some more. But if I find a copy of the program, I will contact you.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Kelly Richardson, July 23, 2019 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, August 5, 2019 Final-edited by:	Ryan Morini, August 9, 2019