AAHP 292A; Branton; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 252 Isaiah Branton

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Marna Weston on February 17, 2012 1 hour, 13 minutes | 39 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Isaiah Branton talks about his genealogy and family history and the importance of knowing one’s past, especially for African Americans. He shares his family’s history going back through slavery, which he learned from his grandmother. He not only shares names of his ancestors, but also the hardships they went through in the mid- and late-1800s, including traveling to and living in the Gainesville area.

Additionally, Mr. Branton shares his own life story, touching upon education, employment, and his experiences under Jim Crow segregation in Florida. He also comments upon the importance of knowing one’s history.



Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Levy County, Florida; Slavery; US Military Veterans; Segregation]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 251 LaKay Banks

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Ryan Morini and Keilani Jacquot on February 17, 2012 1 hour and 2 minutes | 28 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Isaiah Branton talks about his genealogy and the importance of knowing one’s past, especially in African American culture, as this is his focus. He shares his family’s history, which he learned through his grandmother that goes back to slavery. He not only shares names of his ancestors, but also the hardship they went through in the mid and late 1800s. Additionally, Mr. Branton shares he life story, education, jobs and most importantly; how his upbringing was marked by racism, his life experiences about it and how it marked his life. Furthermore, he endeavors to identify the growing problem within the African American Community which he lists as the loss of the African American culture and how it seems to him that many African Americans now a days are ignorant to the slavery as a result of their actions.



Keywords: [Cities; key events; businesses; military; occupations; etc]













































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 292A

Interviewee: Isaiah Branton Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: January 18, 2013



	W:	We’re here in Starke Florida, with Mr. Isaiah Branton; thank you very much for having me in your home, this is terrific and it is March the ninth, 2012. So we’re just having a little talk about some materials and things that he’s bringing to bear for our discussion and the first thing that you introduced to me Isaiah was this picture of your great, great, great grandmother, is that correct?

	B:	Great, great, great grandmother.



	W:	Great, great, great grandmother. So could you talk about her and this picture for just a minute and kind of set the stage of where we are? What does this picture mean to you and who’s in it?

	B:	Okay what the picture means to me is know my history from 1834 and from a Eliza Chisolm with a father named Ned Chisolm and her mother’s name was Adeline. Adeline Grier, they was slaves. First they came into Jamestown, which was in Virginia, then they went to North Carolina, which North Carolina—Virginia was converted to North Carolina at one time around—what you call that place now? Runnel Rapid.

	W:	Now, Adeline Grier, could you spell that name? B:	Grier, like rules of Grier.

	W:	Oh Grier, G-R-I-E-R?



	B:	Yes, something like that.



		W:		The guy who was able to Bobby Kennedy and play football— B:	Yeah, yeah same last name.

	W:	Are they related in any way?





	B:	In some degree I think he’s got some kind of connection. I really don’t know.



Sometime people say I look like him so, you know. [Laughter]



	W:	I see that a little bit. So how did this picture come into your possession?



	B:	Through my people in Ocala. My grandmother told where to go and get the picture. She told me in 1970 where to go and get the picture and I went to me cousin and she gave me the picture, Cindy in Ocala. She is a—her people was Kendrick’s, Buster Kendrick’s and Susie Kendrick’s lived with my grandmother. Her mother’s name she graduated from Bethune way back when Mary McLeod Bethune was teaching and she was Bernie’s King, which was a teacher I have a picture in front of the Bethune-Cookman way back in the [19]40s.

	W:	Kieng like in the— B:	K-I-E-N-G.

	W:	Now you grandmother, Susie Kendrick is that right? You’ve mentioned in the past, since we’ve known each other, how she inspired your kind of love of history and keeping family sources together.

	B:	She inspired my grandmother. My grandmother—well she died in 1928 and my grandmother was about forty years old when she died.

	W:	Okay so what is your grandmother’s name?



	B:	My grandmother’s name was Dilla Brooks Wooden. W:	W-O-O-D-E-N?

	B:	Yes.



	W:	Okay where was she from? B:	She is from Gainesville.





	W:	So what was it about the stuff that you and you’re grandmother talked about that lead you to this incredible collection of artifacts and—you can’t see it because you’re just listening to tape but I’ve been just introduced to a small part of what Mr. Branton has collected and it is a tub full of photographs, manuscripts, list, and all kinds of family artifacts is the best way to put it, which should be the basis for some type of publication at some point I hope that you’ll pursue that. So what was it about your grandmother thoughts that moved your family and you in this direction? Why do you do this?

	B:	I do it because her knowledge of awareness of what went home from the family past and the older generation passing on the stories to her, they told her the stories. One time said—we sat on the porch and Grandma Susie, which was born in 1857 will sit there and tell me about what happened. She saw slaves getting whopped, she remembered vaguely how they would get whooped and she would say how it really was. She began to tell me about even people before more than 1834; she was talking about Aunt Rose, which was born in 1812 which was slave to the Stringfellow and then she went in the same of Rose Stringfellow and she said, you gone on to census and you’re going to find Rose Stringfellow but won’t find Roseline. It says, Black but her name is Stringfellow because that was Adeline, her mother’s sister. She was telling me how everybody was divided and where it was divided. She even told me about Kingsley plantation where they came through there and when her aunt owned Kingsley plantation who’s her name was Anna, Anna Madeline Kinsley.





			W:	So a lot of information that you talk about the Kinsley Plantation and about the Haile Plantation	[5:28]	 So let’s back up for a second; let’s start with you.

When and where were you born?



	B:	I was born in a place called Levi County right on the Gulf of Mexico in a little town called Gulf Hami in 1953.

	W:	Were you born in a hospital or were you born at home? B:	Midwife.

	W:	Do you know the name of the midwife?



	B:	Yes, they called her Red but I have to get her—Miss Red; but I have to, you know she was a higher lady. I knew her name because she would tell my mom to bring all her kids by and let her see them. We would stop by her house periodically and we would get out. I can get that from my family.

		W:		She wanted to see all the kids, so was she the midwife for every birth? B:	Yeah.

	W:		Wow, that’s incredible. Okay so, I’ve got when you were and where you were born; let’s talk about your mom and dad for a second; who are they and where are they from?

	B:	My dad is from Tallahassee, he was born in Tallahassee in 1908; November the 25th 1908.

	W:	And what’s his name?



	B:	His name was Reverend Jackson Branton. W:	Was he originally from Tallahassee?

	B:	Originally.





	W:	Okay, how about your mom?



	B:	My originated from a place called Holder, Florida. W:	Holder. H-O-L-D-E-R?

		B:	Yes right outside—seven miles outside of Dunedin. W:		Do you know what county that was it?

	B:	Citrus.



	W:		Citrus County. Let’s talk about her parents for a second. Who were her mom and dad?

	B:	Her dad was Dan Wooden, and he was from Monticello, Florida. Her mom was Dilly Brooks Wooden from Gainesville Florida; she was born in Gainesville, July 16th, 1892.

	W:	Now on your dad’s side, who were his mom and dad?



		B:		His mom was Harley Branton, and his dad’s name was John Wesley Branton. W:	Okay and where were they from?

	B:	Well, original from Tallahassee. They came original from Mainland Florida, from Jackson County. Can you hold up for one second?

	W:	Of course, of course sure.



	B:	That’s backed up and put up somewhere; I’ve got the whole family tree.



	W:	Okay so when we are restarting the interview, you went to go grab something, what did you get?

	B:	I went to grab the family tree; the big old thing I got it where itcharted all the back to slavery. I just remembered the name—okay my grandfather, my daddy’s, daddy’s name was John Wesley Branton Senior. His wife’s name was Oley





Branton Elbert’s. Oley Elbert’s Branton, her maiden name was Elberts. Then his daddy’s, daddy’s name was Jason, Reverend Jackson Branton Senior and Ella Branton.

	W:	Okay, and that’s the people, that’s the Monticello.



	B:	Yeah Monticello, matter of fact he established fifty missionary Baptist church. W:	Okay so he was a traveling preacher

	B:	Yeah he rode a horse. W:	Okay, wow.

	B:	And during the time in the 1800s he established, his stayed in Monticello but he traveled the Bible Belt all the way up to Mobile, Alabama all the way where the Bible Belt went and established missionary Baptist churches in Georgia, South Carolina, and North Carolina.

	W:	Okay, so a traveling preacher. So that’s what originally gave your family an understanding of the area in going all those different places—

	B:	Yeah.



		W:	So brothers and sisters. How many brothers and sisters do you have? B:		I had ten, and there’s only four boys living now including me.

	W:		Can you now document your family brothers and sister from oldest to youngest by the name?

	B:	Yes. Okay Jack, Eloise, Henrietta, George, Elijah, Martha, David, Rachel, Isaiah, and Charles.

	W:	Okay so we’ve got a few Bible names in there. Four boys are the ones that are remaining.





	B:	Yes, Isaiah, David, Charles, and George. W:	Okay are you the eldest of the boys?

	B:	No, I’m the knee-baby, the baby next to the baby.



	W:	So you’re number nine, out of ten. So what kind of—what was it like to grow up with nine other brothers and sisters?

	B:	It was fun because my brothers went off to college and came back home looking for sessals and suits and my brothers was hard workers. My oldest brothers was hard working guys; had families you know when I became a teenager there was already married and had kids my age because of the gap and they was excited because we had a family reunion every year, had a long table in the yard, ice cream chewing, and all the children running and playing and nephews, the same age I am, the nieces and we just had a grand time. All kinds of food, daddy barbequing and he was a minister so he strictly believed in family and prayer. It was exciting I think about those days now; the way he always taught us, my brothers they went to college they would come back home and they would say you know, you can do better than this. They would come back in the country, where we lived in the country, and you go to their house they living like they White, you know they were nice stuff in the house, upstairs in Miami. My brother lived in Miami he was something like a principal; his son a principal now in Miami. We was taught that education—my father always said he went to the second grade and had to go back on the farm and work. But he always quoted us and said; intelligence is memory that is image on the brain where later on you can go back and tell the story so always put a good image on your brain of knowledge,





the road to somewhere and then go back when you going on that road to know how to follow the road. That was his motto.

	W:	Great.



	B:	He always would say he didn’t have an education because Blacks really didn’t have schools, sometimes you and to walk eight or nine miles to school. He said they went with no shoes but you all have a better opportunity. He said, we still fighting the Civil Rights movement and we still—cause he died right after 1969 that Decane got killed. The day Cane got killed, he said, it don’t stop here because God’s guiding and he always was encouraging us not to get angry when we got called in, look at it as we’re better than that. It’s not a down grade, it’s a: don’t stoop to the level of the ones that speaking it. He always encouraged us to be men that strived to have something. Something nice, clean…not to leave beneath what God already had ordained us to have, as people. Not the just: I can’t do it, I can’t have something nice, I can’t be clean, I can’t be neat, I can’t be an example for my people. And he did that. He said I got a wooden house, but I can paint it, I can clean the wetness, I can put pretty flowers around it, and it look like a story book. He would plant flowers around the house and would keep the yard clean, but he had gardens all around the house, a manor like a plantation you know, garden over here, garden over there, and we worked it, we worked it—.

	W:	You and your nine brothers and sisters? B:	Yeah it seemed like a plantation [Laughter]

	W:	What kind of chores did you all have growing up?





	B:	Cows, feed the cows, the hogs, the chickens. Then we had—we’d get the eggs, had watermelons, cucumbers, ocra, greens, corn, sugar cane, and then he would hire this White guy Jim to do the plying back in the [19]50s. He would do the ply for me, he would pay him. Then he had a store on the side of the house where he sold cookies, soda, eggs, deviled eggs and stuff like that. On the side of the house had a big round Coca-Cola thing on it, on the side of the door. You’d walk out the house and go to the store—

	W:	So he was very entrepreneurial? B:	He was something else.

	W:	A business man. So where was this that place you grew up? Where was that location?

	B:	That was on Levy County, a striving and boomed town. First, they called it gun town, then they called it Guffhammoth. Relative to the Gulf of Mexico was about seven or eight miles from Rosewood and it was a strive and it was towards the Pacific paper mill, wood mill, and it would have close about two thousand people lived in that cellar.

	W:	What kind of jobs did the people that lived there worked for Georgia Pacifics?



	B:	They did crate mill work, plening mill work, paper mill work, and they also did logging, hotels ‘cause a big hotel was there and then they had houses there, and different section. They had three or four different Black sections. They had four churches there; they had honkey tonks—whatever they’re called—about three of those and they had houses, roll houses on both sides and you’d drive in the mill. Then they had—I don’t know we went up having the biggest house there.





	W:	Did the train come through—?



		B:		The trains come through there and stopped. W:	Okay so there was a train stop, a depot?

	B:	Yeah, before you get to Rosewood. Matter of fact they got a story with the Rosewood incident went on that they brought people through there to hide them. And the people in there in Gulfhampton they heard the shooting going on, when it went on. Miss Jessie Graham, she just died two years ago, I think she was 103. She told me the story that she heard the shooting and they was running through the bushes all through them and the train really went through, they say the train went through Dunedin. They’re the ones that took them up to Jacksonville. The train track ran all the way from Gulf Hammock to Rosewood. Ran over the Trausa and to Rosewood across the Waccasassa and the story was that was all hiding in the woods. Some of them came—they kill people in Gulf Hammock too but that story never was told. Once they came through Bronson and Order Creek they shot up people; Black people walked along the road, they came up and shoot them. Then they went to Rosewood, when they came back they went all through the woods looking for more Blacks then they came to Gulf Hammock and killed people too. But that story never was told.

	W:	Was your family in Gulf Hammock at that time? B:	No they weren’t. They was in Gainesville.

	W:	So how did your family end up leaving Gulf Hammock?





	B:	Well, during the time when the industrial went down, the mills and all that was burned down. Georgia Pacific left all the industry there so most of the people migrated to Ocala, Dunedin and Gainesville.

	W:	Do you recall what year that was?



	B:	It was, now in the Mill burned down it was in 1956.



	W:	And it was close upon that people left? Or did it take a few years for the community to—?

	B:	A few years and they started leaving because they had to work a long distance and some of them just didn’t hey had to travel places, they decided to move there. People left for on a daily basis, you see trucks passing by with mattresses and stuff on the truck moving and the furniture. That was on a daily basis you’d see them pulling out.

	W:	What is your first memory of schooling? Getting kind of formal education?



	B:	Well my first memory of schooling… my father had the house. He used to teach us before we went to school he would get in a circuit—al the kids were surround him and he would teach us about the Bible and where we came from. Teach us about kush, not to be inferior because we was in the Bible just like everybody else was. And he would let us know that we were great people and we don’t have to fear what people about us, we are not inferior, we’re some great people. He talked about Solomon, he talked about Nimrod, he talked about—then he would do quizzes and say; now I’m tell you all kids that we’ll see who is going to win the prize tonight. I want you to take twenty one pieces of corn and make a dollar out of it, make it a even number. He was always giving us quizzes but thinking in





what we’ll figure out. And I know that today, twenty one pieces to make a dollar you know, thirteen nickels, three dimes, and five pennies. I was a little boy, at eight years old he was making us figure that out. Then he strived off for learning because he didn’t have the opportunity. Then the first day of school, I’ll never forget my first day. My sister Martha, she had to drag me on the bus, I remember that, ‘cause I didn’t want to leave mom. She dragged me all the way from the house, all the way when I got on the bus I caught the railing and she dragged me on and the teacher said I was kicking. When I got into school I was kicking—

	W:	Why didn’t you want to go to school? B:	Because I wanted to be with my mom.

	W:	Okay, do you remember the bus driver? B:	Yes.

	W:	What was the bus driver’s name? B:	Her name was Ms. Glover.

[Isaiah Branton’s wife enters conversation]



	X:	Do you want some more coffee? Excuse me. W:	If there is some, yes please.

	X:	Yeah, it’s kind of strong. B:	Well, dilute it a little bit.

	W:	No, no don’t dilute it. Just leave it like it is, just like it is. B:	I’m sorry.

	W:	No, no it’s good. Just happens all the time. So, you remember the bus driver.



What was the name of the school that you were going to?





	B:	Strong elementary.



	W:	Was it named after somebody? B:	Yeah, Fulton Strong.

	W:	And who was Fulton Strong?



	B:	Fulton Strong was like a relative of ours.



	W:	Was he known because he built the school or he was just a significant person in the community?

	B:	No, he was a significant person who started the school and he owned land in Gainesville, by the Cotton Club. He owned land of Week Ivory, he was a permanent land owner, Black land owner in Levy County.

	W:	When you say Week Ivory is—



	B:	That’s a river. Week Ivory run out the Waccasassa, names like Indian. See where I was born I remember Indians, that was an Indian Village and you could find arrow heads everywhere you walked.

	W:	Do you have any of those arrow heads?



	B:	No, as a matter of fact we had a collection and one of my—we used to collect them; my brother David we just get arrow heads but I don’t know what happened to that old collection. I believe my nephew Leroy may have some. We used to have a lot ‘em. We used to go in the woods and get and sharpened the best one. We used to get the ones with the sharp points. And they made out of flint.

	W:	Yeah. Who was the principal of Strong Elementary?



	B:	The principal of Strong Elementary, her name was Miss Williams. W:	Miss Williams?





	B:	W-I-L-L-I-A-M-A——W-I-L-L-I-A-M-S.



	W:	And do you recall her first name? B:	Oh boy.

	W:	It’s tough with the principal—



	B:	Let me see. I think her name was Edna.



	W:	Okay, and who was your homeroom teacher? B:	Her name was Mildred Richardson.

	W:	How long did you stay at Strong Elementary, six years, four years? B:	About six years.

	W:	While you were there, what kind of activities were you involved in and what kind of stuff did you do in school?

	B:	We studied, we had the maypole, we had the mayday, we write and learned about who we was. We learned about slavery, a little bit and the books was old. The books looked like it had more White kids name in them, then Black kids. Like you beat a book, they had to put another name thing for you to write your name in because they was hand-me-down books. They was all to’! Sometimes the pages wasn’t all together and we had to look on to somebody who had good pages. We got some standard education back then then but we came and we was smart because we were fine. When they had new books, we had old books. I used to—I’ve always been the type of kid. . . I could see difference in a lot of kids. I always was the type of teacher that would say. Some of the Black teachers went to school with my brother so and they would call me up to desk and said, you smart I graduated with your brother. The one in college, the one’s





that teaching now; you no dummy, you better get your lesson. Stuff like that and they would always comment on the way mother would dress us and say; I know them Branton kids—I heard a teacher saying they are clean dressed kids, clean come smelling good and everything—

W:   So you were expected to kind of be like leaders around the school?



	B:	Yeah because my teacher graduated with my brother and she said he was one of the smartest kids in school and she said we had the same parents so I wasn’t gonna fool her.

	W:	Now what was the relationship in the community between the Black families and the White families?

	B:	Okay with the Branton’s. Now with the Brantons, the White and Black were connected; I played with White girls back in the [19]50s. We was sat on a deep hole around a commissary and I would play with a White girl all day because the Branton’s were well-respected in that community. My brother worked in the store behind the cash register in the 1940. He still lived—He lived, his name’s George he lives in Ocala. Then my brother James ran the store and the commissary. I’m talking about taking money and putting in the cash register.

	W:	Okay so you knew these kids and your family had good relations but you’re still educated separately from their—

	B:	Yeah, yeah.



	W:	Was that anything that you would talk about or knew what happened in another’s persons—?





	B:	Okay we always—the parents. Miss Casey always told us that she loved us, she hugged us, she’s still living down in Gulf Hammock, she’s about ninety years old.

	W:	Miss Casey?



	B:	Casey, she was a postmaster.



	W:	Okay do you recall her first name or just Miss Casey?



	B:	Miss Casey, I used to know her first name. Her daughter’s name was Emily, Emily Casey. We played together, we the same age. Played, ran, tagged, ran around the village, nobody said nothing.

	W:	This was a White lady, the postmaster? Okay, so what kind of stuff would Miss Casey tell you about how things were?

	B:	She would tell us, y’all sweet, I love y’all and we had homecoming down there; she’d come by there and hug all of us. Never been since last year, she’s always let us know—and then we would go and buy clothes for summer for us, and nice clothes. I’m telling, she would have it ready for us when the summer come. We’d go and pick up nice jeans with the tags on it and everything. Then we’d come to her house and eat, we’d just come and swim in her swimming pool. I’m serious, but back then I don’t know, my father had a good rapport maybe because he was a minister and a pastor and they respected him to a point where he carried himself in a way—It’s seems like unusual but the Brantons were well-respected, I’m serious.

	W:	But could you tell a difference in maybe things that you heard about how White in general reacted or treated other Blacks—





	B:	Oh yeah I saw, we would experience somethings. Me and my sister and brother were walking along the road coming from a friend house one time and truck load of White guys passed by and holla, hey niggers! And I holla, hey crackers! And they turned around and they had their gun and said, nigger we’ll kill you. My sister said, you shouldn’t had said that. I said, I’m tired of them with this shizzle you’d better hush because next time you’re here we’re gonna kill you. We went all home.

	W:	They came back like they were gonna do something.



	B:	They had sticks and guns, they’d be hunting had them dogs on the back of that truck.

	W:	They thought they could just drive by and say something and you wanted to say nothing back. What year was that?

	B:	That was in… let me see, I think that was about [19]61 or [19]62.



	W:	Well, back to elementary school for a second. What was your favorite subject? B:	History.

	W:	And who was your favorite teacher? B:	My favorite teacher was Miss Willa.

	W:	Why was Miss Willa your favorite teacher?



	B:	Miss Willa was a silent lady, she was interested in—Miss Willa and then we had Miss McIntyre, then we had, let me see Miss Richardson, Miss Anderson was hard, she was the principal. She would tear you up, she didn’t play. So Miss Anderson knew—tried intimidate when she began to teach me, called you didn’t know, you didn’t play, you strictly did what you had to do. Miss Richards was the





same way because she knew the family but Miss Willa; she got killed in a car accident in Miami. She was from High Springs really.

	W:	What was her last name—? B:	No, she was from Alachua.

	W:	Willa was her last name or her first name?



	B:	No, her name was, oh Lord—Miss Willa first name, cause she got kids and she got children in Alachua but she died and her husband was in the service, and they lived—I forgot Miss Willa’s first name, but I’m in contact with her son.

	W:	Okay so you still maintained ties with either the teachers or some of their family members still.

	B:	Yeah, now most of the teachers are dead now. Now, I got some substitute teachers that was subbing during the time, they’d still living.

	W:	Oh really?



	B:	Yeah. They still talk to me, call me and see how I’m doing. They live in Gainesville.

	W:	Well, what are their names?



	B:	Betty Jean Richardson, let me seeit was. . . I think Carolina she was a sub a little bit. She lived out in Chief land.

	W:	Now when you left elementary school, where did go—did you to a middle school or did you go right to a high school?

	B:	High School.



	W:	So it was a seven to twelve school. B:	Yeah.





W:  And what was the name of that school? B:  Bronson High School.

W:  Bronson High, just like it’s out there right now, Bronson High. So Bronson was integrated at the time you went?

B:  They integrated the time I went, the same year I went. It was integrated, it was racist too because the teachers really didn’t get close to Blacks they acted like they stand offish that first year. It was kind of stressful.

	W:	What year was that? B:	[19]66.

	W:	1966. Who was the principal of the school? B:	Edwards.

	W:	Principal Edwards.



	B:	Yeah, I don’t know his first name.



	W:	How was he? Was he kind of standoffish too? B:	He was racist.

	W:	Was he? What kind of things would he do—?



	B:	He would harst out with the Blacks. He was—when we went to the school, it looked like he was ready to stand there ready to whoop on Blacks. Like he was just saying where they’d all come in, but “I’m going tame them.” He was very hostile, someone that talk like he was Jim Crow and every time he beat a Black, he would beat one real hard. Just like he was with a whip. And I saw his racism during the time—I walked out of the class one day, a White girl put her feet out and tripped me and I fell. And I got up and said, don’t you do that anymore. I told





her, don’t do that anymore I mean that and then she claimed that I verbally cursed her out and he called me in the office and I said, she tripped me; and he said I ain’t worried about that, I’m worried about you talking back to her. And then my dad came out there the next day, and he didn’t bother me anymore and the next year, my dad got sick with leukemia and so I stayed home like thirty of forty days cause he had gotten real small and I was the oldest kid at home at that time ‘cause my brothers graduated in [19]66 and [19]67 he had moved away. The other brother next to me and my sister Rachel, she had left cause she had got grown and I was the only one at home and I had to stay out of school to help lift him up because mom couldn’t do it by herself and I stayed out of school for a long time staying home, and it was stressful during that time. And so I was falling back in my grades. So after dad passed, we moved to Marion County.

		W:		Okay, so you didn’t finish school? B:	Unh-uh

	W:	At Bronson?



	B:	I finished in Marion County.



	W:	So you just went fully your freshman—pardon me, your seventh grade year and then by the time you—

	B:	I went to my tenth grade—



	W:	So it was your sophomore year.



	B:	Then I went—tried to catch up with the stuff I had lost, so I went to summer school in Marion County.

	W:	And what school was that?





B:  Like I went during the summer? I went to Vanguard School for summer courses. Because I had to get up my credits and after I picked up my credits—I caught up my credits, I went to eleventh grade.

W:   At Vanguard?



B:   I went to during summer; I caught up all my credits.



W:  Where did you go for eleventh grade when you started you eleventh grade year, where did you go?

	B:	I went to summer school then I had to catch up credits.



	W:	Yeah but when you started eleventh grade on the fall where did you go? B:	I went to American kind of school system.

	W:	Which school?



	B:	It would be at Vanguard; sometimes it would be at Community. I had to go day and night to catch up, so that’s what I did. I went at night at the community school by the time of graduation come, time for me to graduate, I had all my credits and more. And I passed the literacy exam with flying colors, and then the lady said, you can’t got not but your high school diploma. I’ve done everything and I did it ahead of time.

	W:	So you didn’t have the traditional high school where you go to school, going to football games—

	B:	Oh yeah I did that too. I did that but what I’m saying when the time that my father got sick I had to catch up on credits and that’s what happened. I had to work during the summer and go at night sometimes. But because he got sickened sixty seven—sixty eight and he died at sixty nine. So that whole year I was—it





was . . . something. I told mom—mom told me she would pause, no I’d make up for it. Then I got my high school diploma, then I went to a little college school until I got drafted.

	W:	Okay, did you actually go to the Geocollege in Ocala for any time? B:	Yeah, I went for two years.

	W:	Now what was the name of that school? B:	Central Florida Junior College.

	W:	Central Florida Junior College, okay.



	B:	I got the paper work and all that in there.



	W:	What was that like? Was that—that was an all Black junior college. B:	No, that was mixed.

	W:	That’s where CFCC is now? B:	Yeah.

	W:	Okay, what was it like going to school there?



	B:	Oh it was good, I enjoyed going there. But I went in the service before I went down there now, see. But COCC was a good—I learned you know mingle with people, I got comfortable with people there. Enjoyed being in school again, you know I had no interruptions, I didn’t have the stress.

	W:	How did you end up going to the service? B:	I was on the last draft.

	W:	So you were actually drafted?



	B:	In the last draft and I went to Jacksonville and they adopted me in the armed forces and I told them—they said that, you wanna be in the delayed program. I





said yes, and I got on the delay then they want me to go to in the army. So I went there and I was gonna go in the army but I changed it to the Marines. read it

		[39:15 elapsed]   I told them no, I don’t want to in the army, I want to go in the marines and I left the army guy and went to the marines and that’s why when I went in the marines I enjoyed it.

	W:	Where was your training at? B:	Parris Island, South Carolina.

	W:	Okay, that’s where everybody goes. What was that like? B:	Loved it.

	W:	You are one of the few who say that. [Laughter]

		B:	I loved it for the running, the exercise; I didn’t care too much about the yelling in my face but that was good too. Could be called apart and let me know how to be disciplined, how to hold my own, how to think under the stress, so I enjoyed the marines. Marines really made a difference in my life, really. Made me see the world, saw a lot of countries that I would never had went to; I was challenged to serve my country and 	[40:20]   in my country and I see the value in my country through serving the armed forces.

	W:	That’s why you have the American fly in your porch? B:	Yeah.

	W:	So, you recall your drill Sergeant at all?



			B:	Oh Sergeant 	[40:37]	 and this last, Staff Sergeant Morus.



	W:	Why is it this many years later you can still remember those men?





	B:	Because I saw them in combat. [Laughter]

	B:	Yeah Sergeant Hall was a Black and Severche was a White and Sergeant Morus was a senior drill instructor and I was in baton three eighty four .

	W:	You still have contact with any of the men that came through you? B:	I can call one right now, in Atlanta, we talk every day.

	W:	Okay, do you ever have reunions or due dates, or just pick up the phone to call?



	B:	I might go to Atlanta and stay with him over night or whatever, with his family’s wife and his kids and he’ll call me when he got a problem, ‘cause before I left the marines I worked in the office and I learned all about how do the alters work in there so. So they moved me, I took a test—and they put me in the office.

	W:	What are some of the countries that you went to in your service for the United States?

	B:	Okay, I went to Germany, Morocco, I went to Sicily, I went to Spain, England, Italy, France, and Kosovo. . did I say Spain? Okay, I went to Sicily, I went to different places like Venice the city of water, I went to Rome, Vatican City, the Coliseum, I went to tour all that, Barcelona in Spain, Reuter Spain, the bull fights. Went to England, South Hampton, Wales, London Dairy, that’s all in England. I saw Big Ben, rode the double decker bus, I stayed in a hotel in England. Then I went to France, Toulon France, Cologne France, and what else, Kosovo that’s a different area. Then I was on ship in the mid—we ride so many countries so—

	W:	What would you say was the worst and best experience that you had as a United States Marine?





	B:	The worst was when I got hurt. I got hurt in service. I got injured with my feet and shoulders and stuff, and muscles.

	W:	What happened?



	B:	I accidentally—doing an operation, a field operation and I just got injured with my shoulder and muscle area and a lot of pain. I went through a lot of pain and stress with that.

	W:	That was the worst experience?



	B:	That was the worst experience. A great experience, one day I was in the company they called me out. They says two people in this company we want them to go school and would like them learning about education and German and communicating how you can cross the Russian language into, you know indicate—

	W:	Was that your specialization?



	B:	I was a specialist—I started at all three level but I ended up—I had an engineer schooling and certificate so when I got out I had accomplished that. That’s the map and landing area from planes and helicopters—

	W:	Grid portents?



	B:	Grids, yeah. Grids, also to do demolition whatever it needed to be. And learned to grid, mapping and compass, grids, and how to do different things that would help the first approach. You know, when they move in they have everything prepared for them; rows or whatever. I got that certificate and I never used it out here—

	W:	But you were called out in front of your group for a recognition?





	B:	Uh-huh.



	W:	What happened then?



	B:	It surprised me because I didn’t think that—Then they gave me a promotion because of my point system. I had a point system of 4.6 makes a 5.0. Then I had a 4.8 from my conduct so when I had served all my time and got hurt, they still wanted to keep me in there. They’d still talked to me about it. Because of my injury I felt like if I have gotten worse so I just got out.

		W:	So you got the opportunity and you just said, thank you very much. B:		Yeah.

	W:	In what year was that? B:	That was in the [19]70s.

	W:	Okay. So when you finished with the Marines; that’s when you came back to community college?

	B:	Yeah I came back to community college and I also worked for the state in rehabilitation correction.

	W:	What was that like?



	B:	I was working with juveniles that I met first in school. They made me head of security—

	W:	In Gainesville?



	B:	No, that was in Ocala.



	W:	Okay, when you first moved to Ocala. B:	Uh-huh.

	W:	What was that job like?





B:  It was like maintaining discipline with the kids, catching escapees, maintaining the cottage when they had violence I had to take them to lock up different stuff like that. Searching, make sure they didn’t bring contraband into the campus.

W:   This is for young offenders though



	B:	Yeah from—I think from nine to seventeen. W:	Okay so not older—for younger.

	B:	No, no if you did a crime that like murder or something like that we might have you till you get eighteen and then would transfer you to a hold-up prison; like this place called Lancaster, we would take them there.

	W:	Okay yeah, Lancaster out going towards Fanning Springs.



	B:	I worked there till I resigned because the Highway Patrol recruited me to be a highway patrol and I thought about that, and I turned that down.

	W:	Why did you turn it down?



	B:	I thought I was gonna get Jacksonville but they want to send me to Miami. W:	Too far south?

	B:	Too dangerous too. W:	Oh really?

	B:	Yeah two of them had got killed that year. I don’t know, it wasn’t fear it was just the idea I just felt like I will be the one that would be the more aggressive. You know, somebody jumped up the car too much I felt like that job, my mental capability could handle it, but I didn’t know how my reaction was gonna be. So I decided I would just let that ease by, which some of my family members thought it was a copout but, you know, that was their opinion.





W:  You knew you better than they knew you. B:  Yeah, yeah.

W:  So when you left the correction system, what did you do then? B:  I left there, I went back to school for electrical and electronics. W:  And where were you going to school at?

	B:	I was going to Santa Fe. So I went to Santa Fe for about a year and a half; then after that I worked at a job it was a job called—I worked in security ‘cause see I had my state license, I forgot about that. I worked security a little bit and then I went into a place called Day-co where just tried to go to school and accommodate my school and work. So I went with them for a little bit and a corporation and worked for them a little bit and then later on I just went to school to try to—then I was hired in Gainesville as a customer service supervisor at Stringfellow Supply Company.

	W:	I’m not familiar with Stringfellow.



	B:	Well Stringfellow Supply Company— W:	Okay.

	W:	And I was supervisor over customer service. I did that I think about four years. And then one day I had to take something to a federal insolation and the guys was saying, have you ever been in service? You know a lot about customer service and different things, and products. You know ‘cause I was explaining what happened somebody bought the wrong order out, they pulled the wrong order and I as a supervisor I went to correct it. I was selling mace, guy said, you got the right thing, whatever I need you got it. I said, I just went back there and





got it. He said, well—I said I know the stuff, I studied this stuff. I know the difference between this and that, curve and uncurved. He said, oh you pretty bright. Then he said, would you like to work for the government? You ever been in the military? I said, yes I’ve been in the military. He said, why don’t you fill out that application for federal service? And he said, no just call me and come in. So I called him and came in and they hired me.

	W:	Now what position is that?



	B:	First I started in the door. He wanted me to get in the door in the federal system and he said, well what you can do is work around getting the lab floors clean and stuff like you know when you work in the lab and do all that acid drops and all that and just keep the laboratory clean and the area clean. I said, I start because it was start, I think about what $13 an hour something like that, because it was federal. But he said, get your foot in the do’, you got enough education, do what you got to do. And so I got my foot in the door and later on a position came move for the federal bender town Gainesville and I put in for that and that was in Administration of the USDA and I went for USDA downtown administration office doing stuff for six, seven counties, making sure all the materials get to six or seven counties because of the state office and then the so-called from Washington DC to me, down in my office, then my supervisor we’d just send all the media out. Media and certificates, accountable and certificates and I was over that. And I came in there as a GS-4 and I worked there. Then I later on and transferred to the VA and that’s why where I retired for.

	W:	The one in Gainesville?





	B:	Yeah I retired from the VA in Gainesville. W:	And what did you do at the VA?

	B:	I worked in medic administration and acquisition material management. My last position was an MAS: medical administration and I came out there.

	W:	So following your retirement from the VA, this is where you developed more time to document your family’s history?

	B:	No, I had been documenting I just pulled it out of the box. W:	Okay. So you’ve done.

	B:	I’ve been had stuff. I’ve been had tablets and stuff and my grandmother was still living. My grandmother just died in [19]93 and one day you know I would tell—I knew it all ‘cause she had shared it with me. She told one day I went down to her house one day and she said, that was in [19]87 or [19]88 something like that.

And we prayed, and we was praying, she was praying and we sat there and talked and then she said, you know God got his hands on me. She said, well whatever you do, she said a lot of stuff I’ve shared it with you a lot of people don’t know it; they don’t even know their own family. She said, but just don’t go to there, trying to act like you know it all. Let them get a chance to talk and if they don’t know what’s going on don’t force it. She said, because I’m telling you something son: a lot of African Americans don’t know who they are. She says, some was called Sugar babe, Honeycomb, and all that that and they really didn’t know their grandmother. They said, oh Grandma’s name was Honeycomb; she said but I’m directly telling you one reason why you know so much, your people was educated. She said my mother finished high school, my mother finished





Union Academy in Gainesville and she said she graduated she gave—Then she showed this picture with a diploma in her hand. And she gave me that, I’m telling you one thing, a picture says a thousand words—

	W:	True.



	B:	She said, nobody can disprove your pictures; they may disprove what you say but your pictures will tell the story. She said, one thing some people you don’t go to their own thing, you can’t tell them by their family they are gonna make up their family. She said, some African American make up their family. They wing everything that don’t look as good and try to pretty it up but they’re not telling the real story about their family. They just making up things to make it feel good, they leaving slavery hardship. That’s a psychological thing she said, but I can tell you my brother was hung in 1902, Manely was hung a Lance Hammeth and he was hung by the Dudley’s and different people, the Jeffcoats and all them, they had something to do with his death. Then they put in on that he had stolen something and did this and did that but he hadn’t done nothing. They just made up a story and pout in the newspaper and later on to justify that he was a murder, he killed didn’t kill nobody, he wasn’t but ten years old. And say like that Scott got away.

Then she told where his grave was at; she said you go a half moon and the church up in the alley. Then the road one car can get up and you have to get on the side road for it to come through, up there on a little hill and they got bricks on his grave, there go Manny’s grave. And said the guy’s name, last name was Hicks that buried him and said had they had a little funeral in 1902.

	W:	Have you been to that spot?





	B:	I’ve been there two times.



	W:	What did the area look to you?



	B:	Just like she described it, with the bricks on the grave. It’s like bricks, regular bricks on the grave not them slab. He was ten years old when he was hung. e was hung with another guy’s name, Robert Sugg.

W:  So what is what ultimately you would like to accomplish with the sharing of your history and the sharing of these artifacts and having conversation like this. What is it what you would like to see come out of all this process?

B:  I would like to see the time we left Chester, North Carolina, walking behind the wagon train and coming to Fort Caroline, the Kingsley plantation, the Kingsley Lake, Fort Clarke, and then the sprit out into Gainesville. Then the Hialeah

		[57:45]   was told to get out the plantation; grandma would say when they was told to get out of the plantation they did you like they did chickens: own to cook, then said shoot. Some wandered all night, some wandered when they didn’t have nowhere to go, some came back to the plantation and said: I work for food. Some just kept going and looking for others who was sold all, some sat there and died of starvation. Some decided they rather be back in slavery than starve but they did not get them a way out of slavery, they did not give them a— what you call? A readjustment plan out of slavery—Grandma said, they just said shoot and they’d had to make it on their own and she looked at me then and said: only the strong survived, the weak died. It makes sense.

	W:	It does, but does that mean that you just wanna make sure that people know about that—?





	B:	Yeah know about that. That they didn’t get out of slavery just like saying: well we gonna get you thirty days supply of food or we gonna let you stay here until you find your way. No, kill go. Let them find the proclamation emancipation, get, go. You free, go.

	W:	Now what about the projects you did with your family? Like over the summer when you do reunions and your education workshops, what is the ultimate goal of—what is your ultimate vision of those activities?

	B:	Well, my ultimate goals of those activities is to educate my family. I know all the people really don’t wanna think about slavery because they really wanna mold into the pot, so called forget about where you come from but I wanna be an American, I ain’t paying about slavery, I don’t mean nothing to me. I wanna be in this pot and I wanna forget who I am and try to blend where I’m going

	W:	Sort of the melting pot.



	B:	Yeah, and a lot of our people don’t know who they are. I don’t challenge some people and I know they can’t to me but they in denial because they don’t who they are. I have resolved that I don’t need to challenge them anymore; let them go bout in the false way they think but I know who they are and I know who I am. That will give me comfort things that when they say: Yo he kidding everybody, I can prove it. I can go through the genealogy and prove it, our DNA. I doesn’t matter because any thing I say, better believe my grandmother told me. I don’t be speaking on top of my head; she showed me connection to everybody that I say I’m kin to and I can tell a number some things they don’t know about or they know about and don’t say nothing about it. I can tell them everything, they don’t





have to tell me, I can tell them they could say: how you know my history? Cause its mine. You know and so a lot of people that I have mentioned that I’m kin to, I’m actually kin to through Susie or through the connection.

	W:	You’ve put a lot of stock into lessons from your grandmother and you know, your parents and your life experiences in the marines and your families and all these things come together; have those things helped you to be a leader in any way?

	B:		I think I’m a leader with facts and I’m a leader with knowing who I am. Four is the leader in the Black community is confusing because some don’t wanna be lead; some of them don’t wanna know who they are, and some of them still blaming the White man, some of them still blaming their neighborhood, some of them are still blaming drugs, some of them still blaming: they don’t let me. I think that aspect I share the story about know who you are, know you come from some great people, you people are who build the pyramid, you Christians, negro where the name that the Spanish gave as a Black, everyone that was Black was negro and that’s where we got the name negro but we actually Cusack’s and that’s how we’re raised just like oriental, Cusack’s. Just like White, their name just like we have our name but we go by what we’re given and I feel like wisdom comes when you know what wisdom is. Knowing that who you are and nobody can put a label on you who you are. A name who they want you to be named and so I feel good to be out of the skin of someone else and to my skin knowing that my people was great; knowing that they crossed the middle passage of them didn’t make, lot of them we eaten by sharks a lot of them starved, lot of them died of heat exhaustion, lot of them when they got to the place they was too weak, they





just put them aside either they died or they came back and a lot of them that was strong, they stripped them down, throw water on them and put them up on a auction block and said: look at their teeth. Look at his eyes, check his ears out, let me hold his hand said, hold his hand okay. Then they say, well that’s fine, than they’d said fine, that’s five dollars. They didn’t go no higher than five dollars. Now if you were six dollars you were special, you had some mulatto in you. But I’m telling you they don’t know that we had a systematic in slavery. The Underground Railroad was stories to the quilt on the line with the Velcro. The shooting star to the North, it was codding in we started with the Morse code we invented the Morse code. Then we had songs that had what we had to do. We had to run and was time to swing those sweet cherry, you know what I mean? [Laughter] and we was smart people and how this came about—and it’s been told that they would teach the mulato; the house negro, different things even back to biblical he was an overseer. An overseer name was the one that came in and talked, we gonna teach about obey they master, those who ruled over that’s in the bible so they would start with that. Grandma said they would start with obey your master, now get down in they head in the Bible, the scripture, obey your master who rule over they didn’t tell who was the master. They said that scripture, then they had an overseer said now you gotta tell then to obey their master and then he would teach about different things. But the overseer, the house negro started reading the bible and he started seeing Ethiopia. He started seeing where his mom or grandmother mentioned Ethiopia or different areas over whatever and he started thinking about home, kingdom and that’s why they





started singing that song about Canaan and that’s why they started signing that song about Canaan into my Canada, you know what I mean? There was a call for Canaan was Canada but they’d thought they’d use the Bible, the word God to set them free in the code. See Black don’t even know that they can’t realize that because back then we was Biblical focus. Why them songs came about?

Because that’s why they took the Bible from us and didn’t want us to read or learn and read because we’d know who we are we was a great people, we still is. That’s why I’m so confident, that’s why I know that the skin of somebody else’s image have been putting on me, I’m different. I know the energy and focus that I come from so that’s why I’m me.

	W:	So what is your personal definition of leadership, if you could tell me what leadership was, what is your definition of leadership?

	B:	Leadership is a solid foundation regarding truth, to lead with truth, example, and purpose.

	W:	Okay.



	B:	It is not a false pretense, is not—our people have been called in slavery by we saying that we gotta look to a higher power to get somewhere instead of us looking to ourselves. Our community still crumbling, we still getting the word of God, the word of God is pure but we must understand that we gotta position ourselves as a people to be blessed not because we serve God, because God been with us all the time. We was set over here—brought over here for a purpose and we haven’t used that purpose yet to exemplify God because I feel like as an example; I pattern myself like God put the truth in Ezra in the Egypt but





did never denied their God—they never denied themselves. We have denied ourselves, young people have morals, and favors, and fare, they dress like they come from slavery. They dress like their on the plantation and is like the younger generation is going back to slavery in their mind and that’s what I look at. I see the clear picture and I’m not saying I’m the smartest Black man on Earth or whatever, but I’m saying I see the clear picture of us reverting back to ignorance, some of us, the young generation; the ones that the babies—having babies without knowledge in between. I see it infiltrating the church even with the sing of singing like they are so hip hop or converting the church music into hip hop. They gonna start spinning ruckus because they are in the church and preachers are being raised up the new time preachers. They not preaching a word, they preaching emotion and not preaching how people are supposed to be; our people is failing every day and we’re being failed by the church, by the leaders because they are not leading to tell the people to keep on coming out of slavery, keep on coming out of that mentality, you know what I mean because mentality— slave mentality is when you keep yourself under the image that they want you to be, and I’m not racist, I’m not racist but it’s different Fletcher?. He was a type of guy that they wanted you to look at; walk around there’s no one to see, always lost. A lot of our kids are doing that, they holding their trousers up sloppy, don’t know what to say, and don’t know how to act. So that’s what leaders think need is in when you saw breaking the truth done and then parted it into people where they can see the light. Then when you see the light and then when you see the





light you can walk in the light. If you can’t walk in the light, you blind. That’s what I see.

	W:	Okay. Mister Isaiah Brandon it was pleasure to have this conversation with you at your home, this is not gonna be our last conversation we’re gonna have that conversation today it’s just gonna be this particular interview on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program I wanna thank you for allowing to come in your home and speak with you today, and this is the part of the interview I’d like to transition into one whatever final thoughts. These are gonna be the last words that I convey with our thanks for the interview today but at this time I’d like to offer you to have the chance to close and comment on anything that you’d like to and then when you finish those words I’ll conclude our discussion today.

	B:	Okay. Well my comment, final comment is that I appreciate sharing this history although it’s a heartfelt thing, all the stuff that I say and do been passed down from people who actually witnessed the situation and I’m glad that I can put it on tape where if somehow God forbid I lose memory, or mine, or even deceased; that the legacy of this history will not die. I appreciate Samuel Proctor Oral History Department for being there to capture this and I appreciate, I thank Paul, and Marna and his group for just really being there to capture what is real and true; not just a story that I can say and not have anything to back it up. I have pictures, fikes, years, dates, whatever but at the time that our History Department can use me I’m at your disposal, thank you.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Anna Jimenez, March 28, 2013. Audit Edited by:	Genesis Lara, June 18, 2014 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019