AAHP 057; Stewart-Fullwood; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 057 Betty Stewart-Fullwood African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Richard Addison Steele on June 21, 2009 26 minutes | 14 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Dr. Betty Stewart-Fullwood describes her life and work in the OASIS program at the University of Florida. She defines the OASIS program as a place to receive academic resources as well as social support. The program helps students adjust to campus life because many new students are overwhelmed. Dr. Fullwood grew up in a predominantly African American community and initially attended Bethune- Cookman College then transferred to the University of Florida. She experienced a high degree of culture shock when she first came to UF even though she grew up in Gainesville, because there was no support system there for her. OASIS helps new students, especially minorities, not to feel that same way and have a smooth college transition.



Keywords: [African American History; OASIS; College Transition; University of Florida]











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 057

Interviewee: Betty J. Stewart-Fullword Interviewer: Richard Addison Steele Date: June 21, 2009



	RS:	All right, this is Richard Addison Steele conducting an interview on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, and I'm going to be asking Dr. Betty J. Stewart-Fullwood, Director and Senior Lecturer of the OASIS program here at UF, some questions. Dr. Fullwood has received numerous awards, and is actively participating in many ways to help underrepresented students at UF to achieve their goals. The time now is 10:00 a.m., Monday morning, June 15th, 2009, and I am speaking with Doctor Fullwood in her office. Good morning.

	BS:	Good morning.



	RS:	My first question is: what was your community like growing up?



	BS:	My community was pretty much predominantly African American, lived in an African American neighborhood, and I attended a pretty much predominantly African American high school, and attended an African American church.

	RS:	Okay, and would you describe your family life?



	BS:	Family life was pretty much myself and my mother. My father and my mother were divorced when I was very young. I still had a good communication with him growing up; but more so after I got a little older, as opposed to when I was very young. But, he was involved in my life during that time, but—. Had a lot of cousins, and grandmothers, and great-grandmother, and aunts and uncles that pretty much nurtured me.

	RS:	So, your extended family was very important in your life? BS:	Right. Yes.





	RS:	Okay. Has anything in your past influenced your decision to participate in the OASIS program?

	BS:	I guess pretty much, when I graduated from high school as valedictorian, I went to Bethune-Cookman College for a year and a half, and that was a predominantly Black situation as well. Then I transferred back to University of Florida, which was totally different and quite the opposite, even though I was born a native Gainesvillian here, it was different being a student on campus. I had participated in a program during the summer of my eleventh grade year—I think it was either, I think it was eleventh grade year, because we did, I think, two years here on campus where they had students that were predominantly African American to come on campus and work in different offices on campus. So I had familiarity with the campus itself, but not as a student. And, I think I went into culture shock when I went—when I became a student here, because the type of nurturing and communications I had from high school to college, and coming here, where nobody knew me and I didn’t know anybody except for the folks I had worked for in the office before that. So, I think that led to me being more aware of what African Americans and other minorities might face coming on a predominantly White campus.

	RS:	Right. I similarly experienced that culture shock because I'm from Fort Lauderdale, and it’s very different. The demographics and just the lifestyle is different than coming up to Gainesville—is more of a rural setting, and I hadn’t really experienced being around more of, like, a laid-back atmosphere, and the types of people you encounter up here as much. So, when I first got up here a





couple years ago, it was tough grappling with, like, all that, and so I definitely understand where you’re coming from with that.

	BS:	Mmhm.



	RS:	So, going along with the OASIS program, in your own words, could you describe how the program is important to our community and for communities elsewhere?

	BS:	I think that OASIS is important because it gives students a place to look to for support. And it’s not always academic support, but sometimes students just want to talk to someone, and kind of bounce ideas off of them about majors, or about life situations, even about organizations, and sororities, fraternities, and getting involved. And, sometimes they just need a little push to get involved, because they’re getting embedded in their minds from home that, you know, “You didn’t go up there to do this, you didn’t go up to do that, and you went up there to get your studies,” and whatever. But, you know, you can’t be a well-rounded student without participating in activities. And I always talk about that in terms of students that, their parents want them to live off campus, or the students want to live off campus, and they don’t get a chance to get involved because they don’t participate in organizations. It’s, you know, eight o’clock class and three o’clock class, so I go back home, and then I come back maybe, or I may get up to the eight o’clock class and then I get on the bus, and if I get home and something is happening, how am I going to get back? So all the time, students on campus are steadily being students, and so, and students are doing that transfer back and forth, they’re being travelers. [Laughter] They’re not being students. They’re commuting. And so, they didn’t come to community college; they came to the





university. So, I think that that’s very important. So, we act as resources for the students, having other students who are juniors, seniors, even sophomores, who’ve been through what the freshman are going to go through, and pretty much can help them out with life situations with males, females, roommates, eating, knowing where to go to get a haircut. [Laughter] You know, where to go to shop.

	RS:	That’s important. It’s hard, to find a good place.



	BS:	All those kinds of things, so its support services, but also tutoring. We also have/provide tutoring, free tutoring for most of the math courses and science courses, some language courses as well. And being able to—the students being able to talk to students about, they don’t do necessarily academic advisement, but if you have an English course and there are twenty sections, and you know the professor that is teaching the course, then you can pretty much say as a student, “Well, no, you know, this is a good course with him, but it’s not a good course with them,” because there are differences in instructors. So, not necessarily telling them which class to take, but maybe if there is a choice between certain professors, certain times of year—versus summer term, versus fall term—to take courses.

	RS:	All right. Well, I think that’s great. The OASIS program being a resource here, not just academically, but socially, because I can relate. Because, again, when I came up here, it was difficult because I didn’t know anyone, and I didn’t really have any resources to turn to.

	BS:	Mmhm.





	RS:	I didn’t know the OASIS program, other similar programs, so when I first came up here I knew maybe, like, three or four people from my high school, but we weren’t like good friends. And I mean, I knew a couple random people, but no one that I’d call up just to hang out and say, “Hey can you show me around town? Can you show me where to go?” I didn’t know anything, and when I first, I mean, the first time I came up here was for orientation, and then, the next time I came up—which, I was only here for a couple days—

	BS:	Right, you did the Preview.



	RS:	Yeah, and then the next time I came up, I packed, unloaded all my stuff, and I went to class the day after my dad said, “Good bye.” [Laughter]

	BS:	Mmhm.



	RS:	Put your bedroom the way you want to. And so, the first week or two is really difficult just learning the roads. I didn’t even know how to get to class; someone said, “You walk on this bus over here, and you show them your Gator 1.” And I was like, “What is this? You just show them your Gator 1? I don’t get it.” So, everything was really difficult; I still haven’t found a good place to get a good hair cut yet. [Laughter]

	BS:	Roderick probably knows—.



	RS:	[Laughter] And it really is, I mean, it’s important that you have places and institutions and programs such as OASIS that can offer that support, because I know that when I came up here, I desperately could have used something like that because, it really is difficult, it’s just a complete uplifting of someone from everything they’ve known in life to something completely foreign—





	BS:	Right.



	RS:	—and strange and it’s difficult for a lot of people, to, not only embrace that, but be successful with it, because you're not just learning in the—you're not just learning in the classroom, but you're learning about people, and you're learning about different things that you're not used to—

	BS:	And decision-making—



	RS:	—all at once. So, I mean, it’s, it can be extremely stressful for a lot of kids, and it’s important that they have places that people can come and talk to people, and figure things out together, and learn about things, and share with one another, so that the transition is easier. And also, when you have people here providing that for you, it can, like, support or stimulate you into going further with activities that you wouldn’t normally do. Like, say for example, someone wanted me to participate in some sort of clubs or organizations, but if I didn’t have anyone helping me with, like, the initial—initially with the Gainesville area to just begin with, then I definitely wouldn’t be involving myself in further activities that could distract me from just learning the basics. So, I think that’s great that you’ve been with the OASIS for so long, and helping people, and just, sort of helping them absorb the whole Gainesville atmosphere and the UF culture and everything.

And I also want to ask you, do you think that being a Black woman has presented any challenges in life? And if so, what sort of lessons have you learned from it?

	BS:	I don’t know about challenges from being just a Black woman. I think I've experienced challenges throughout life, and this is in the Black neighborhood context as well, because I was always expected to do better. More. The best,





kind of thing. And this came from my upbringing with my mother and my family in general; my teachers. Even from, I think, kindergarten, nursery school or whatever, they saw, I guess, potential that I didn’t necessarily see, and pushed forward. And so, all the way through elementary and high school, you know, if somebody had to learn a poem, if somebody had to recite something or whatever, I was going to be a part of it at some point in time. And I think that helped encourage me to think that they expected me, as well as to realize that I could probably do whatever it was that they did, so it gave me courage to do more than I probably I would’ve done normally. Because I didn’t want to let them down—and like if they thought that I could do it, then I obviously could do it, and if I couldn’t do it! [Laughter]

RS:  Did you ever feel at any time that the expectations that high everyone had of you were sort of hurting you in any way? Or, do you feel that those expectations were never those that sort of restricted you, but they’re only there to encourage you?

	BS:	Yeah. I think it was more encouraging. I think that it probably kept me out of a lot of trouble, and probably helped me to push myself a little bit harder than I would have pushed without that encouragement. Because I know that there were quite a few other students that were probably in school with me, that probably if they gotten that encouragement—I wasn’t that much smarter than they were, but they may not have had that support from home or community to push them forward. So, I think being who I was—you know, my father was an electrician-plumber, self-employed, and he did a lot things that without education. And my mother just had a high school education. But, I think that because they wanted, I think, more





from me than they had—because that’s what most parents do, if they’re good parents, they want their children to reached higher than they reached—but I think that because they were, quote-unquote, professional folk in the neighborhood, that I was expected to live up to that same kind of upbringing.

	RS:	So, considering that, do you feel that the community and the family are the most important groups or factors that contribute to someone’s success? Or, do you feel that’s more of a—I guess I'm saying, do you feel that someone can be independent of the community? Or, do you feel that the community and your family most significantly contributes to that person’s success, considering that they shape and develop their outlook on life? Or, do you feel that someone without the community or without the family can achieve personal success without them?

	BS:	That’s a long question. RS:	[Laughter]

	BS:	But, I think that I know where you’re coming from. I think that it can work both ways. A boy child who’s brought up in a household with just females, and maybe no male role model, can be a good male role model by just knowing what didn’t go on. By the same token you can have a male in the house who is totally asinine, and doesn’t do anything that a child can look at and say, “I'm going to be the opposite.” And then, a child can look at it and say, “Well, that’s what I think a man is supposed to do. So, I’ll beat people, and I’ll beat up on them, and I’ll not bring a check home, and I'll just lay around kind of thing.” But they can go both ways. I think that the learning experience is different for different people. So, you





can either look at something and say, “That’s what I want to be.” Or you can look at something and say, “That’s not what I want to be.” And so, while the family and the neighborhood and the community can influence you, I know there are some people—I've heard stories, and these are probably sermon stories from pastors-- some people saying, “You’ll never amount to anything. You’ll never be anything.” And so to prove themselves, to prove the person wrong, they said that the best revenge is success. So, when someone says, “You're never going to be anything” and whatever, some people can say, “Well, I guess I'm not going to ever be anything,” and they can just go down to the gutter. And then, some people say, “Well I’ll show you!” Kind of a thing and that’s what they do with their lives. I know there was a professor, Robert Williams, who was a Black psychology professor. He said when he was coming along, everybody in school tried to gear him towards shop classes. You know, making things with wood, learning how to do auto mechanics, and whatever. But he wanted to do psychology. They said, “Stick with what you know and stick with what you can do, don’t do this, whatever.” And he became a pretty renowned psychology professor. And so, I think that you can rise up above the ordinary, depending on what your personality and character is.

	RS:	I agree, that’s definitely true. I have a couple more questions for you. What sort of goals do you have for the future, for yourself?

	BS:	Oh, goals is to be able to get to February 2010 and retire! RS:	[Laughter] That’s a good goal.





	BS:	—with sanity and in health. [Laughter] I think goals is pretty much to leave some kind of history—I'm not going to say a legacy—but a history behind that there will be someone that will come behind me that will have the same caring, understanding, sensitivity to students that will be coming in, in years to come, to help to motivate them, to lead them towards finding their full potential.

	RS:	That’s a great goal to have. I also want to ask you if you could describe a future here at UF that you would find most ideal?

	BS:	Hm. A future most ideal would be that there would be no need for an OASIS program. [Laughter] That students could be able to come in, and they would be nurtured, they would be encouraged. Folk would be sensitive to their needs, their desires, as well as being able to lead and guide them. I know even with my son— he’s in fine arts, he’s going into his senior year—and he didn’t tell me this until during spring break, during the fall term, that one of the advisors over there— they have to submit a portfolio, and one of the advisors over there said something to the effect that, “Well, you have a ninety percent chance of not getting in, because they only let in so many people out of two or three hundred people that apply. So, you probably need to be looking for another major.” And, he didn’t tell me that. But he kind of started slacking off, slacking off. And so, between spring break they had to get their portfolios together to present the first day, or at least turn them in the first day after spring break, and he worked very hard. He was up day and night. He says, “I don’t know what I'm doing this for, I'm not going to get in anyway.” And that’s when he told me what the person said.

And I said, “Well you can’t let anyone else condition you to what you going to do





or not do.” And so, he says, “Oh, well I’ll do it!” And I said, “Well, if you do and you don’t get in—if you go someplace else, you may have to have a portfolio. So, you’ll have it. You’ll have it done.” And so, he did it. And I think was real pleased with it, mainly because he got it finished the hour before it was done, which is not usually his case. He’s usually a very big procrastinator. And so, I guess it was about a couple weeks later, and I said, “Have you heard anything about portfolios?” He says, “No.” He says, “We aren’t going to hear anything till probably the middle of the semester or the end of the semester.” And I said, “Oh.” And the next day he came up and says, “Oh, they’re going to send us an email, and tell us where to go look to see whether we got in or not.” And so, he was pacing, waiting for the email. It’s quarter to one, it’s ten to one, it’s five to one. He’s in my office pacing with his computer in his hand, looking to see an email come through. And says. “Come on!” It’s one o’clock and no email. Five after one, the email comes and tells him to go look over to the architecture building, in some glass case, and see the posting. He’s like, “Okay, I will. Okay, I’ll leave my computer here. No, I’ll take it with me. No, I'm coming back. No, I'm not coming back. Well, okay, I'm going to come back.” So, he sets it down, and he runs over to go see it. And he comes back with this big grin, smile, whatever. [Laughter] Because he got into Drawing. And, I said, “You know what? It’s so— why would you not think you're going to get in? I mean, somebody has to get in.” So, I think of all the potential advisors that might discourage folk from going into—now, if someone needs to take math, Calc One or whatever, and they’ve taken it three times and they can’t pass it, and that’s the course you’re going to





need to get into, I don’t know, med school, or get into, you know, whatever; then, I could see that. But if it’s the unknown, you don’t know how willing this person is to work towards whatever their goal is, and once they get accepted, it’s almost— when you come in as a freshman, you really don’t have a goal. Your goal is just to make it through the first year. Second year, maybe, okay, maybe help me find something. But by the time of your junior year, you pretty much set. “I want to do this.” And you're focused on it. So, you're going to work hard to do this if this is what you want to do. And, I think that a lot of times advisors don’t take up that stamina, that perseverance; they don’t take that in consideration when they’re looking at a student, and looking at maybe classes they’ve taken, or what class they have to take, and thinking how hard the road is going to be for them down the way. And so, I think that a lot of discouraging may come prematurely. That you should say, “Go for it. As long as you go for it. But look, if you’ve taken this math course three times and you can’t pass it, if they are not accepted from community college, then, you know, you're not going to be able to do that here. You may be able to go someplace else and do it.” And I think that you have to offer options. Not say that there are no options, but be a MacGyver, and try to think of all the options, all the different ways this can work besides the way that it’s working now. And not to dash hopes of students that are here.

	RS:	All right, well I have two more questions and then, we can be done; I’ll let you go back to the things that you have already for you. The next question is, what do you think are the best and worst qualities about UF?





	BS:	The best is, I think, all the colleges and all of the potential, the majors, and the research experiences, and just the experiences you can have here. The microcosm that it is of the world, that there are people of all different races, creeds, religions, that you can really find yourself and learn how to adapt to almost any situation by being here at University of Florida. I think that maybe one of the weaknesses would be that a lot of students don’t use their potential and all the resources that are available to them, that they don’t think about, say, study abroad; they don’t think about doing things beyond just the classroom. So I think that if students could be encouraged to try to be a total student, as opposed to just focusing on academics, that would probably be a great improvement.

	RS:	I agree. All right, my last question is: I saw on your door, you had some sports posters and stuff, and I wanted to know—

	BS:	Mmhm. That’s Rod. He plays with a lot of football teams. He’s one of our peer counselors.

	RS:	I wanted to know who you think should have won the NBA championship, the Lakers or the Magic.

	BS:	Well, obviously the Magic did not come to play, so. [Laughter] Well, Lakers have the experience as a team and the coach of being able to, I think pull from the depths, even when it looked as if they were down or they should have lost—at least two more games they should have lost. Or, I should say, the Magic should have won. But, yeah I didn’t even look at the game last night, but I could see it being played in my mind. We were busy setting up a computer in a basement and I couldn’t get up to see the game itself. But at the end all I asked was, “How





much they lose by?” Because I figured the Magic had lost. But, yeah, they did not play well enough to win. Maybe next year, which is everybody says next year.

But maybe next year having had that experience, they’ll be able to settle down, and if they do any recruiting of anybody to help out with the two or three that they have that were playing really well. Everybody else was just pretty much spectators.

	RS:	Right. [Laughter] All right, well those are all the questions I have for you. And I want to thank you for participating in this interview, and if you have anything else that you want to say, or any questions for me? [Laughter] Or, anything else, and, if not though, we’ll be done with the interview, and I’ll let you get back to what you need to do.

	BS:	Okay, no problem. RS:	All right, thanks.

	BS:	You’re welcome. [End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, July 27, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019