AAHP 279; McCullough; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 279 Dolores McCullough African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Justin Dunnavant on July 16, 2012 1 hour, 13 minutes | 40 pages

















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 279

Interviewee: Dolores McCullough Interviewer: Justin Dunnavant Date: July 16, 2012



	D:	All right, hello my name is Justin Dunnavant and I’m here with Ms. Dolores McCullough, my grandmother. It is Monday July sixteenth, and we are in Brooklyn, New York, at her home. And I guess we can get started. I just want to ask you a few questions about some of the research you’ve been involved in in your life, and just some background information about your life. So I guess we can start with where you were from, where you were born.

	M:	I was born in Brooklyn, New York, on Lexington Avenue. D:	And your mother was from there as well?

	M:	My mother and father come from a place called Yemassee, South Carolina. My mother was brought up in Brooklyn, New York. She lost her parents at an early age. Her father drowned. He was a fisherman. He drowned in South Carolina, and the mother died early, and she has an uncle who lived in Brooklyn. And the uncle was her mother’s brother. He came to South Carolina after his sister died, because the children were left alone. And he brought my mother, and her three— she had three other sisters—he brought them to Brooklyn. He was a doorman at the Towers Hotel in downtown Brooklyn, in Brooklyn Heights. And he worked.

The mayor used to come to the Towers Hotel. The Towers Hotel was the hotel in Brooklyn. And he was friendly with these people. And he was a doorman there, and he asked the mayor if he could bring his—there was an apartment vacant upstairs in Prospect Park. It was called Lefferts Manor. I believe it was called Lefferts Manor. It’s definitely called Lefferts something—anyhow, the mayor said that he could use it. And he was friends with all of the bigshots because the





Towers Hotel was where they had all the meetings and stuff like that. So everybody knew him. And the mayor said that he could bring them there. So they lived in Litchfield Mansion as teenagers. My mother went to P.S. 8 in downtown Brooklyn. And they all got jobs as babysitters, and then as domestics eventually. And that’s where they lived until Momma got married, and then the sisters were always very close, always very close. And my uncle James always looked out for them. I remember we lived on Grenada Place before I went to school, which is Alden Avenue now. And Uncle James used to come on Saturdays, and bring a whole lot of grocery. He used to shop in Bohack’s on 14th street. And he’d bring a whole lot of groceries to Momma. And of course my mother’s married by now, and has us. And I remembered I used to run and go meet him, because he would have something nice in there that he would bring for the children. So I wanted to make sure I got mine first. [Laughter]

	D:	Now was your father from Yemassee as well?



	M:	My father was from Yemassee. These people were Ishee frees. They used to call them Ishees, because they were children of landowners and slaves. They were just children. But they of course were very poor. And as soon as they could, Momma came, she came first. Momma and then auntie came, and they got jobs babysitting and doing– maids. And then I had two other aunts. My Aunt Norsey, she came because these kids were left in a house by their self. When the mother died, the husband had already drowned. So they went in the house as little children taking care of each other. So my aunt Norsey, she was young, so she came to New York on the train, and she always says how she kept thinking it was





time to get off. And there were some White ladies there, and they would tell her “No, no, no, you sit down. You sit down.” And she came, and she stayed with a cousin. And this cousin was my cousin Ida, but they called her Sister Ida, because she was like the eldest one in the family. So whatever Cousin Ida said they did. And Cousin Ida’s husband worked for the post office (that was Cousin Charlie). Post office used to be a good job. Still a good job I think. And Cousin Ida had a house, so she was the rich one in our family. I don’t see how rich she was, but anyhow she always had a nice house and stuff like that. And if you needed advice, Cousin Ida was the boss. That’s when you respected your elder. Now they say “F-U.”

	D:	[Laughter]



	M:	Okay, and we were educated. Momma had five children. I had two older brothers, and a younger sister, and a younger brother. I am the only one left. But I had a good childhood. I had a good childhood. They never had any money, my daddy was a drunk, but a very respectable drunk. He got drunk on payday. He didn’t curse anything except damn and hell, and, “Birdie keeps the lights on all night. She thinks I am Con Edison.”

	D:	[Laughter]



	M:	Because Momma used to stay up late with her sisters. They were all very close. And they used to stay up, and they used to talk. So he used to say, “Why the hell don’t they go to bed. And turn off the lights.” [Laughter] And these sisters always lived next door to each other, and they were very very close. My aunt Anna, she lived the longest and Anna died at a hundred and six. They were pretty women





too. They were pretty women. They had shapes, they had figures. They all had big titties.

	D:	[Laughter]



	M:	They had figures. My aunt Lucille used to stop the traffic. Now some of them were light skin with gray eyes. But my aunt Lucille she was a whopper. She was a brown skinned woman with a shape like a Coca-Cola bottle. And she used to love to dress. We’d go out on 14th street, and when she would stop the traffic you hear me? I love when she would take me out. And I used to have this little half nappy head, and she used to take a pencil and make Shirley Temple curls. And we’d go out on 14th street. 14th street was the street [snaps finger] and I would be so proud because she would stop the traffic. She had some big legs, and she had a little waist line, and she had some hips. She wore high heel shoes. She knew what to do. And I understand she was a fabulous dancer. And she had a boyfriend who had a wife. That I remember. And they used to go dancing all the time. She was a dancer, used to dance all over. And what Momma used to wonder why Lucille doesn’t get a real boyfriend. Momma was married. My aunt Anna was married. My aunt Norsey wasn’t married. They used to say that she will always be a spinster, and it’s true. She was always a spinster. She died in her seventies, and she was very– even when she had company, Cousin Ida used to be there with her and the company. And they had a brown stone house, and the company always went in the parlor floor. That’s where the people used to entertain. That was the living room, was on the parlor floor. And Cousin Ida used to be in there with the boyfriend. Momma and my aunt Anna, who were two peas





in a pod, and they would talk about this. “Norsey can’t get married because she can’t get rid of Ida.” [Laughter] “Men don’t want to court Ida, they trying to court Norsey.” And my aunt Norsey, well isn’t that a name, Norsey? Sound like Horsey, right? And Aunt Norsey was a pretty woman. She was a pretty woman. Of all of them my mother was not– Momma wasn’t beautiful, but my mother had a personality. I mean everybody came to our house. And Momma used to cook for everybody, and everybody have a good time in the kitchen. And I went to P.S.

35, which was a neighborhood school.



	D:	And where was that at?



	M:	In Bed Stuy. We lived on Macon Street. D:	Oh okay. So y’all moved to Macon Street?

	M:	Yeah. We moved to Macon Street when I was about five. Before that, we lived on Grenada Place, which is now Albany Avenue. And that was right around the corner from Fulton Street where the Bohack was. Uncle James used to go, whenever he came he always came with a brown bag or they sent it. They used to send the grocery home then. You didn’t have to bring them, or they sent it home.

	D:	P.S. 35.



	M:	P.S. 35, yeah. So I went to P.S. 35, and from P.S. 35 I went to Franklin K. Lane, they just let the Black kids in there. And I went to Franklin K. Lane. And from Franklin K. Lane I went to Brooklyn College. But I didn’t go to Brooklyn College right from the beginning. I went to Brooklyn College, well yes I did, but I went a year at night. I worked in the tailor shop on Sumner Avenue, and I worked there





after school, and I stayed there until I got a job in a factory when I was fourteen. Thirteen or fourteen I got a job on Pearl Street in the waterfront.

	D:	And what would you do?



	M:	I got a job where you did construction paper. And they had this great big machine, it was a terrible place for a young person to work. And he used to cut— [Telephone Rings] Excuse me.

	D:	No problem. [Break in recording]



	D:	Alright, I’m back with Ms. Dolores McCullough, a continuation of the interview July 16, 2012.

	M:	I have another name.



	D:	You have another name? You do have another name. Can you talk about your other name?

	M:	Okay, I have two other names. D:	Oh.

	M:	My name is Rosaline Dolores Jackson-McCullough. McCullough is my married name.

	D:	Okay.



	M:	So let me have all of my titles.



	D:	Okay. We are here with Ms. Rosaline Dolores Jackson-McCullough. M:	That’s right. And I have a nickname, Bunny.

	D:	Bunny.



	M:	Okay? My parents come from Yemassee, South Carolina. And my mother, they’re Black folks, but they come from Indians, and they come from those other





people. So that’s it. The Indians named their children after animals. I don’t know why, and they called me Bunny because I’m always going from one thing to another. And then they named my sister Bootsie. Don’t ask me why. Why they get Bootsie?

	D:	What was her name?



	M:	Bootsie, her name was Barbara. And then I had my oldest brother, who is deceased along with the brother who was next to him. My oldest brother was named after the father, my father’s name was Jeffrey Jackson. So I am a Jackson first. And these Jacksons all lived in Yemassee. And they married each other. Black people years ago, no matter what they tell you, a lot of incest. They would marry each other to stay half White. Then they would marry somebody Black. Yes they did. That I know, okay? Now I’m not saying everybody did that, but I know that I saw a whole lot of ‘em, because my mother used to talk about that. She used to call them [Inaudible 15:41] people. I don’t know what she talking about, but anyhow. Because Momma wasn’t too dark herself. She used to say they were prejudiced, and they were. They were.

	D:	So you were working in the button factory at fourteen? M:	I was working in the button factory before I was fourteen. D:	Thirteen.

	M:	I was about thirteen.



	D:	And then what happened after that? M:	On Canal Street.

	D:	Okay.





	M:	Alright? I worked in the button factory, and then when I was fourteen I worked in the tailor shop on Sumner Avenue. And I worked in that tailor shop until I got out of high school. After school. But in the summer, I would go work in the factory because I could make more.

	D:	How much did you make?



	M:	I think they paid about either thirty-five or fifty cents an hour in the factory. D:	And then the tailor shop?

	M:	Oh, I made about fourteen dollars a week, after school, and on Saturday. I worked for Mr. Alexander, from western Indiana.

	D:	How’d you get that job? M:	How’d I get it?

	D:	Uh-huh.



	M:	I went looking for it. D:	Okay. [Laughter]

	M:	How’d I get in the factory? I used to go in the factory, me and my friend Deedee, we used to go in all these factories, and go on all the different floors, and ask if they needed any help. And Deedee and I got a job. And one of the jobs that we got was in the paper factory. They used to do construction paper. The red, red, blue, a black, a yellow, and you’d take all these different colors from a pile, and then we put them in a ban. And then we would take this paper, and there was a Black guy who used to work on the cutting machine, which was a dangerous machine. A great big machine that was bigger than this refrigerator. And he used to go down on the paper like that, and that would cut it, all right? And we worked





there until we got out of school. And Deedee’s mother was crippled. Mrs. Warner was crippled. And Deedee and I, we were there until we got out of high school.

And Deedee and I are best friends now. She lives in Florida, and she’s a retired teacher.

	D:	Do you know what part of Florida she lives? M:	Huh?

	D:	Do you know what part of Florida she lives? M:	She lives in Daytona.

	D:	Ah, okay.



	M:	I think it’s Daytona. It’s near Daytona Beach. Yeah, I think it’s Daytona. I haven’t been to see her. Her husband played ball very well, and he became a professional ball player. And he golfs a lot. He golfs a lot.

	D:	So what did y’all do after you graduated high school?



	M:	I went to Brooklyn. I don’t know where Deedee went, but we went where it was free. That I can tell you. [Laughter]

	D:	They had a scholarship?



	M:	Well, we didn’t have to pay for the city school. You had to pay something, but not that much. And I worked. I went to school at night. My father was a drunk. That’s the truth. Very respectable drunk, but a drunk. And when he got paid he went to the liquor store, and got himself a bottle. Momma, all she did, when it was time for the rent she would cry. Oh God, poor Momma. And she would talk about poor Jeffrey, poor Jeffrey. I had to see if I cared for it. [Laughter] I didn’t feel sorry for poor Jeffrey, you hear me? But he was a nice man, it’s just that he was an





alcoholic. They were all alcoholics. Black men used to drink. When they got paid, now maybe there was some who didn’t drink, but he said his prayers every night on his knees. And he was a very respectable man. A very respectable man, but I think I had a good life. [Doorbell Rings] Who is that?

D:   Probably Aunt Sabrina.



	M:	Aunt Sabrina, she got a key. That’s Sabrina. You going to let her in? He was a very respectable man.

D:   Okay.



	M:	I didn’t ever care though, but you had to work, ‘cause I felt sorry for my mother.



Come rent time, she cried, Jesus. And we gave our money to my mother.



	U1:	Good morning, Missy, how you doing baby? M:	Good morning.

	D:	How you doing? U1:	Okay.

	D:	Good.



	M:	Good morning, I am being interviewed. D:	[Laughter]

	M:	And we always worked. My sister, she worked in Clines. Her name was Barbara, but we called her Bootsie. Everybody had a nickname. Edward, we called him Sniffles.

	D:	Sniffles?



	M:	‘Cause he was always crying [Laughter] D:	[Laughter]





	M:	But he was the baby, and he was, you know. All of us were good athletes. We played in the streets. Without anything we played tennis. Well, I played tennis. Edward played ball. He played ball. Bootsie stuck up, she stuck up underneath my father. She was his favorite. She was under my father. But we had a good life. We always had enough to eat, and we were good children. And we always had respect and love for my mother. So we always worked, and we brought our money home, except Gilbert. He used to buy pants, and hide them under the mattress. So Momma wouldn’t know how much he made, but Momma wouldn’t care. She wasn’t hard on her kids, but I was. I was the oldest. Now the oldest person, you have to have respect. So they had respect for me. They would do what I tell them. I used to tell Gilbert—my brother was a tall, strapping, you remember Gilbert?

	D:	Uh-huh.



M:  And when he wouldn’t behave himself, I’d say “Gilbert, come here.” And he come and get across my lap. [Laughter] And I tell him how many slaps I’m going to give him, and he would let me slap his butt.

D:   [Laughter]



	M:	Even when Gilbert was in his, he didn’t die ‘til he was about seventy. Well, everybody said I’m the boss, because I’m the oldest and he has to listen to me. Whenever I say to him he’d be quiet until I get finished talking to him. But then he be telling, “She makes me sick. She thinks she’s my mother. She’s not my mother.” [Laughter] And Edward would just smile afterwards [Laughter] Oh gosh, Ed would say, “Well baby, he won’t listen to you, but you will.” And showing you





my daughter. But Gilbert listened to me ‘til he died. I had another brother, whose name was Jeffrey, he was named after my father. But Jeffrey died when he was twelve. He had a brain tumor, and he died. He was a very bright boy, a very bright boy. And that’s it. And Gilbert went to, he went to a different college. But we all went to school here in Brooklyn. Our folks wanted us to do that.

	D:	What did you study in college?



	M:	Only thing I was interested in was Black people. I had always been interested in history. So that was it. That was it, but we had good teachers here. Most of our teachers were Irish. I had one teacher’s named Ms. Treva. Ms. Treva, and she would slap you with the ruler. I had to learn: I, my, my, me, we, our, ours, you, you’re, yours, our interrogative pronouns. And she had this long ruler, and if you hesitated, she hit you with the ruler. [Laughter] And then she’d say “sit down, you stupid thing. Sit down. Sit down.” She was something. She had a club foot. She was an Irish lady. She must have been Irish, because she had blondish kind of hair. And there were a lot of Irish women teachers teaching. But I think I had a pretty good education right here, Brooklyn. I had a good education.

	D:	So you got your degree there, or you?—



	M:	I got my degree at Brooklyn College at night. I better had worked [Laughter] I better had worked. I got my degree at night, and I didn’t get it right away either. Cause I didn’t get it right away, because I fell in love.

	D:	Oh, who was the lucky man? [Laughter]



	M:	Your grandfather. And he could sing, and he could dance, and he had good manners.





D:   Where’d you meet him?



	M:	His uncle was a gambler. He was a number banker in Harlem. And Harlem was a terrible place to people who come from Brooklyn, right?

D:   Uh-huh.



M:  And he came to his uncle one summer. He was going to Alabama A&M, and he came to his uncle one summer, and he was helping his uncle with the numbers. And I met him, and that was it. That was it. And then we got married.

D:   And what was his name?



	M:	His name was Edmund McCullough. And he was working with his uncle and the numbers, and he got locked up one time, but his uncle got him out. They didn’t keep you long then. His uncle was a banker, and he was one of the runners. He used to collect the money, I think. He was a big shot. Boy, he took me to a place called the Harlem Gardens or something like that.

	D:	In Brooklyn y’all went?



	M:	No, he come from Harlem. He was a number person. He was just a country boy.



He was just a country. But his uncle, supposedly, had money. So he came up here, and he was supposed to going to NYU, but instead of him going to NYU he went to the Palm Gardens, or the Palm. There’s a bar in Harlem on 125th Street, I think it is. It’s called the Palm. It was Palm, I remember that, because I went there. Yeah, I went there. My father didn’t know that, but I went there. [Laughter] Next thing I knew I was McCullough.

	D:	So you all got married?





	M:	Oh sure we got married. We just didn’t go around with boys and not get married. No, no I got married. But I did get Charlie Nash. And then he went on to drink. And he had to go. And then I met that man.

	D:	Who is that?



	M:	Although I had known him– that’s Dudley. D:	Dudley. [Laughter]

	M:	And he liked me. I didn’t like him, but [Laughter] I didn’t like what I had. I was glad to get him. After a while, he became my whole life. Oh Jesus, that was a wonderful man. That’s why I’m living here now. He found this apartment for me. He found everything for me. That’s the phone call that I got just now, it’s from his sisters’ now in the hospital, and I was put down as one of her people that they—

	D:	Emergency contact.



	M:	Yeah, an emergency contact. But that man there, whew. D:	What was his last name?

	M:	Barker. Dudley Barker. Gilbert, my brother, used to call him Dudley Do-Right. [Laughter] And he was a Dudley Do-Right.

	D:	He was from Brooklyn as well?



	M:	Yeah, he lived on Cedar Street. And he always liked me. Don’t ask me why. I had bumps all over. I had acne bad. Dudley always liked me. When I walked down Cedar Avenue, he would, “Hello.” [Laughter] But he wasn’t swift enough for me. Before it was over, I was so glad that man was in my life, I had no idea what to do. I had no idea what to do. And, what else? I was interested in history, and I’m interested in current. Always interested in history. And with Momma, those





Black people who come from the south, they believe in voting. And they believe in your civic duty, alright? People who come from the south they’re very, very sincere about that. And you get your butt out. Momma used to take all of us to the polls with us. And they were not really educated people, but they believed in voting.

	D:	So how did you know who to vote for? M:	I didn’t in the beginning.

	D:	So how did you vote?



	M:	However Momma said to vote. D:	Oh. [Laughter]

	M:	[Laughter] That’s how you voted. We never voted for Republicans. Cousin Ida, she was a Republican. You know, never talk about Cousin Ida, and Aunt Norsey, because they owned a house, right? But they thought they were rich I guess, because Momma would talk about them– Momma and Aunt Anna. You know my Aunt Anna. They would talk about them, because they– my Aunt Anna didn’t own a house, she was just, she did day’s work, but my Aunt Anna worked for rich people. She worked at the Essex House. But before working at the Essex House, she worked very– she always worked for rich people. But she still used to steal the silverware from the Essex House. I think I still got some here. [Laughter]

	D:	Yeah, I know you got a fork and knives in there.



M:  Yeah, she used to bring them home. [Laughter] Good, it lasted a long time. But I had a good family. They were good people, and we went to Sunday school. And we obeyed. And my mother was, she was everything, because she was the





eldest sister. She lost her mother and father when she was a child. And Momma was the boss of this family. And everybody in this family listened to Momma, even the cousins. And when somebody would come up from the south, and I guess that’s how it is from the western east too. You know, you have someone who is the– we’ll call it the big momma, or whatever you want to call her. But you listen to what that person said. They were the boss of the family. And who was it that used to tell me? Oh, Deedee gets upset, because they don’t treat her like she’s the oldest. And, then, because they don’t listen she said, “You know, I’m the oldest, and they don’t listen to me.” [Laughter]

	D:	So you became in history. When did you get interested in Weeksville, and stuff in Weeksville? Do remember that?

	M:	Yeah. When it started I lived in Bed Stuy. And me and my friend Pat, we used to go walking on Saturdays. We used to go to the metropolitan, and we used to go to the museums. And then we decided, why don’t we look in where we live? So I started walking around Bed Stuy, because we’ve got pretty houses. And I lived on Putnam Avenue between Luis and Stuyvesant. And we went to church. I went to Bridge Street on Stuyvesant Avenue, which is where I go now, but I don’t go too often because I don’t like that minister. Because I think he’s– he is not the kind of minister. He got a job. That’s what he’s got. He’s not ministering to his flock. He just has a job, he goes to it, and he gets money, and that’s it, alright?

As a matter of fact, I’m getting some money now. But just give him some money, but I’m not wasting my time. I’ll take you to man’s church on what you want. Got a church now on Putnam’s Avenue. I see a minister who is in awe with the





people in the neighborhood. But if it’s just a job, well I don’t need to go there. I rather go to the theater, go to a lecture. So that’s it. So I just turned to school until I finished.

	D:	You started walking around the neighborhood?



	M:	Yeah, we started walking around. And Pat Johnson, she lived in the same—her daddy owned the house that I lived in—and when I got ready to look for to be a momma– to be, to go out really—because I wasn’t pregnant when I got married, and I could take care of myself, and I’m not going to have my father telling me, “In this house you be in before twelve o’clock. You got to come home by eleven if you’re a young lady. You don’t have any business. You stayed out after eleven?”

	U2:	Only with Justin. M:	Hmm?

	U2:	Only with Justin.



	M:	Don’t you see? And you think you could be in my daddy’s house? This house, and then the house he was in? No way. I could see him telling Momma right now “Momma,”—well she was called Birdie—“Birdie, you let that child do whatever she want. Do you know she’s in there with a man? In a man? In our house with a man. And they in the bed.” Oh no, you couldn’t do that. Out. “Looking like a street woman.” That was his famous thing. “She’s like a street woman.” And what the heck was I doing? I was too scared, because he made Momma cry, but Momma would give him tit-for-tat. I mean no fighting, but she had a big mouth like me. But he didn’t mess with her. He got his bicker in him and he went on to sleep, and tell





her she needs to turn off the lights. All she do was burn up lights to have to pay Con Edison. But he was harmless. He was harmless.

	D:	So you moved out to Putnam Avenue.



	M:	So we moved to Putnam Avenue, Pat and I, on Saturdays. Charlene didn’t want to come with us.

	D:	How old was she then?



	M:	Charlene must have been about ten. D:	So this was around 1960s?

	M:	Yeah, yeah, she was about ten. And I took a course at the Metropolitan. And I asked Pat if she wanted to come.

	D:	And what course? Do you remember the name?



	M:	Did art with a guy named Bill Burgess, maybe one day you’ll meet him. And then we started looking in Brooklyn where we lived. And the White guy named James Hurley, he had a course at Pratt Institute; a history course. And I took his history course and asked Pat if she would like to come. And so she came, so we went together on Saturday, and we were just looking at houses in New York. And then we decided why don’t we look where we live? And so we started looking in Bed Stuy. And that’s how we found houses. And I knew a lot of people in Bed Stuy.

Pat is a reader, so all Pat did was read. Pat’s a very bright woman, and Pat’s talents have gone to waste in many instances. She didn’t continue to go to school. I don’t even think Pat got a high school diploma. And she’s a brilliant woman. And she got a job with the VA. She got a job with the VA. And she retired from that job at the VA, and she went to Hampton Institute, and worked





with the museum and the art department. And she’s worked there as a volunteer. And Pat has worked in there, and she moved to Hampton. She left Brooklyn and she moved to Hampton, and she still—

	D:	In there.



	M:	In the history department. She goes to work like they paying her. Go to work every day. And she’s interested in history. And she’s serious for no money. And I got involved, and then I formed the Weeksville Society.

	D:	Where was that at?



	M:	Right here. No, we didn’t live here then. We lived on Putnam Avenue still. D:	And who was in it? The Weeksville Society?

	M:	Me, Pat. I got that stuff in there, and I gave them some of the stuff. And just neighborhood people that I picked up from along the way.

	D:	Oh okay. Did you have like a supervisor, or was it just a whole bunch of?—



	M:	Oh no, we had a real thing going. What are you talking? We had a president, a vice president. We had community leaders. And then I worked in the courthouse. So I knew a lot of people. So, you know we knew how to get things done. Plus, working in the courthouse, I worked with the papers. So I could look up things.

	D:	Like deeds.



	M:	Yeah, and Pat worked for rent control, which dealt with houses. We used to have rent control years ago. You probably had it where you lived. I don’t know where you lived. No, but in the cities they had rent control, because if not the people could just charge you anything that they wanted. So the people who the rent control, which is where Pat worked, and all these courts are all together





downtown Brooklyn. And I knew all the lawyers, because they be coming into my courthouse, and it wasn’t that many Black folks with the judge. So, I had entrée. So we used to get whatever information that I needed. I’d be worrying with the judge, and he tells one of the clerks that he going to send me down to the 91- something, and they give it to you, or tell you where to go look for it. So the books were right there in the courthouse where I worked. So I had entrée. And Pat worked for rent control, so when you get a house like ours, I’m just a tenet in here, but I know how much she can charge and how much she can’t charge, because I have a friend who worked in the courthouse, right?

	D:	Uh-huh.



	M:	So they would know, and they would tell me, right? If she got too much out of line, I let her go.

	D:	[Laughter] So what were your plans initially with the historical society? The Weeksville Historical Society?

M:  To find out information just to see how Black people lived, because we’d been living in, and what the neighborhood was before. But Black people, how Black people lived here, because I always liked Black history.

	D:	Can you talk a little about Weeksville? What it was? M:	You can go see it.

	D:	Yeah? It’s down the street? [Laughter] M:	Across the street, a few streets.

	D:	A few streets down [Laughter]





	M:	So we found out about Weeksville, and I have some books there you can take.



Maybe some.



	D:	In there?



	M:	Yeah. I’d have to scrape them off.



	D:	So did you become involved in Weeksville before you became involved in



ASCAW, Association for the Study of African Women?



	M:	Oh yeah. ASCAW I have never really been that involved, but the Weeksville Society was started right here in this living room.

	D:	[Inaudible 44:24].



	M:	No, no, no. Society, because you’ve got to have it. You have to organize yourself. And it was organized right here, right here. But I’ve never been the president, never wanted to be the president. That’s not my thing. It’s not my thing.

	D:	So who was the first president? So I know you said there was another person who used to be a pilot.

	M:	Oh, Joe Haynes. Joe Haynes was never president. We just had odd people in here. But Joe Haynes was a pilot, and when we surveyed—I didn’t go on the plane—but Joe Haynes was the pilot. And he is the one who surveyed from his plane where the Weeksville area was from the air.

	D:	And this was in 1960?



	M:	Yeah, maybe [19]65. Maybe [19]65, but I knew everybody in Bed Stuy. I knew a lot of people, and that’s I guess where I came in. I knew politicians, and I knew community people, because I lived here. And I used to know a lot of people. So I





said, “How many Black people were working in the courtroom?” Not that many. Not really, not that many. So even if they didn’t know me they saw this pimply faced young lady in the courthouse.

	D:	[Laughter]



	M:	So I knew a lot of people.



	D:	And do they still keep you in touch at what happens at Weeksville in terms of research they do?

	M:	They would be happy if I came there. D:	There are people that still know you?

	M:	They know my name. They got an office there– Dolores McCullough. D:	They have a Dolores McCullough office?

	M:	Well, no, but they know Dolores McCullough, unless they just came there yesterday, because they’ve had an office in restoration for a year. You could go there now. They would know who you are. I really haven’t had anything that much to do with them. Once you’re done, you’re done. And that’s what I liked about Weeksville.

	D:	What is that?



	M:	You don’t have to stay in there. I don’t want to stay in anything. You know what I mean? I don’t want to– that’s a part of your life that’s done, and then you go on to other things.

	D:	So what are some other things you wanted to do after that? M:	Well, I went and met me a—

	D:	Fine man? [Laughter]





	M:	I went and met me a good looking guy from Barbados. D:	[Laughter]

	M:	Got to have some money though. I don’t want nobody who can’t buy me a soda, I can tell you that. I don’t need liquor, but I do, I like a soda. I want you to be able to buy me a dinner. I don’t want a frying fritter either, alright. I can buy myself a frying fritter. No, I want to go to a nice restaurant, and then that’s it. But I don’t want to go to a nice restaurant now. I just want to go to Barbados, and see Edmund, and let him have somebody to clean his house. And he used to drive, but he don’t drive now. He hasn’t driven in two months, I think, except to go to the doctor. But I just want to be treated like a lady that’s all. And you don’t have to spend your money on me, I’ve got my own pension. Can’t tell me what to do either.

	D:	How long did you work in the courts for?



	M:	How long? I worked in the courts. I retired from there. Well I had to work. D:	When did you start working there?

	M:	Yeah, but I didn’t just work in the court. I worked for Workmans’ Compensation for a couple of years doing this thing.

	D:	Stenographer.



M:  Yeah, on the machine, alright. I had to have some money, because I got to pay my rent. I don’t lie down on nothing. That’s not my style. Now when I get sick of your butt I tell you.

D:   [Laughter]





	M:	I pave my own way. You can give me presents, and I like nice presents. And I like nice trips. And I’m well-traveled. And I want you to pay the fare. I worked for the department of labor, for the unemployed. You know when they don’t want to give you your unemployment money so you have to go for a hearing. You may have little teeny little things, not too much to do. And then I did some freelancing on the side for some extra money. I worked my butt off. It was a type writer right there in that corner. And I’d be up typing or dictating. ‘Til eleven, twelve, one, two. I mean I made my money, alright? And that man there. . .

	D:	Dudley.



	M:	Dudley Do-Right. That’s what Gilbert used to call him, Dudley Do-Right. Anything I needed and I didn’t have money for, he saw to it that give me the money for it. And then I got Edmund. I’ve been a very fortunate woman. And then I got Edmund. He’s not Dudley Do-Right, but he do right. [Laughter]

	D:	[Laughter]



	M:	And I don’t ask him for anything, and he will offer. And I need it I’ll take it. If I don’t need it I make my, I pay my own rent, I do everything for myself. I paid for my child. But Dudley was very good to your aunt. And she treated him like the doorstep. [Laughter] He was nothing special to her. Dudley was nothing special. I didn’t think Dudley was anything special. And we never got married, and we were together. Dudley liked me since I was a teenager. Since I was a teenager. I’m eighty-two. And that was Dudley’s sisters– the woman from the hospital. Dudley’s sister just went into the hospital recently. And we lived. No spending the night.

That’s a whole new thing that started recently. But in my day you didn’t do that.





First time Dudley got in my bed, Charlene, the poor man was sick. And he was sitting up there in the chair. And that was his chair. I bought that chair for him, and he was in that chair. And Charl, your mother, put him in the bed. And he was on his way out. He was a wonderful man. He put your mother in private school.

And she didn’t go to just any old junkie private school, she went to the best one here in Brooklyn.

	D:	What was that?



	M:	Brooklyn Ethical Culture. D:	And where did he work?

	M:	He worked at the precinct on Empire Boulevard. But he was smart, he had property. Edmund, not Edmund, Dudley had three Brown stores, then he got Rockford. So he always had a little money in his pocket.

	D:	His family had money?



	M:	They didn’t have anything. And he took care of his sisters, the same sister who’s in the hospital now that they just called me about. And he took care of his sister and his mother. Dudley was a fine, fine gentleman; a fine gentleman. It was a privilege to be associated with him, and I hope your ladies will always feel the same about you. He always treated his babies like ladies, always. Can’t ask anything more, right? Can’t ask anything more.

	D:	Well thank you grandma.



	M:	There was something else I was going to say. Oh, you’ve found out my sister Bootsie, her name was Barbara.

	D:	And Gilbert was?





	M:	Oh Gilbert.



	D:	What was his name?



	M:	Oh, well, I called him Sniffles. And Aunt Anna used to call him Sniffles sometimes too. [Mimics sniffing noise]

	D:	[Laughter]



	M:	Good looking guy, yeah. Over six foot. D:	You said you had two older brothers.

	M:	And my older brother Junior he died at twelve. D:	He had the brain tumors.

	M:	He had brain tumors.



	D:	And who was the other one?



	M:	Oh, Reese, he was a terror. He was a terror. Reese got hit over a lamp post, and lived. A lamp post by a drunk. And after that he was never really right. Had headaches, and he was put in a CRMB class.

	D:	What’s that?



	M:	That’s a class for slow people. And he used to get headaches, and he used to drink to beat me up. But he never beat me up. But he used to tell me that he’d beat me up. [Laughter] And one time he told me he was going to throw me out the window. [Laughter] And Bootsie—Bootsie was Sabrina’s mom—and Bootsie was tough. Bootsie said, “And you going out right after her.” She scared me to death. But he could tear anything. And he would scare me. I’d cry, or I’d go tell Momma. [Laughter] Bootsie was, she never what she said, and said what she meant. You go right on after her, we just didn’t fool around Bootsie. But he knew





he could scare me. Because all I had was a big mouth. “Imma tell Momma. Imma tell Momma.” [Laughter] Yeah, but we didn’t have the heart to tell him. I thought I had all things. I came from a respectable family. And they taught us right from wrong. And maybe we didn’t know which fork to use, but we knew not to eat with our hands. And we knew if we watched somebody else, we’d learn I guess. And we didn’t have private doctors, not until we were big. My mother took us all to the clinic, and take us often, too. And we just all lived as one big family. My cousins, all of us. We all slept in the same bed. Whoever house we were at, that’s where you ate. And West Indians lived like that too. Primarily Brooklyn was West Indians and people from the south. Uh-huh. And we lived in these brownstone houses, and that was it, and rented out a room to help pay the rent. And Momma didn’t want to be on a home relief, Jesus. Didn’t want to be on a home relief.

	U2:	What’s that?



	M:	Welfare. But now everybody looking for welfare. [Laughter] But they didn’t want to be on the home relief. My mother said—now when Charlene’s father left she was a week old, just come home from the hospital—your mother comes home— your mother used to come when you first come home with the baby, the mother would come—and lo and behold this sucker, he goes out to, he leaves, right?

	U2:	Did he pack up all of his stuff?



	M:	No, he just packed up his money that he had that he got paid, and left. I didn’t see him. They told me he had gone to Alabama.

	D:	Back home?



	M:	Huh?





	D:	You know, back home.



	M:	No they said he was– he’d gone to Chicago, because he had a mother who’s living in Chicago. And they said he’d gone to Chicago. And here I am with this little baby. I’m so scared of her. I don’t know what to do. She [screams], Jesus.

	D:	So his family was from Chicago, but he went to Alabama A&M? M:	Well he comes from Alabama. They all came from Alabama.

	D:	They’re all from Huntsville?



	M:	Huntsville, Alabama. He went to school in Huntsville for a while. D:	Yeah, Alabama A&M is in Huntsville.

	M:	Right, but they come from Birmingham. He lived with his grandfather. His mother was a [snaps fingers].

	D:	Finger snapping. [Laughter] U2:	What does that mean?

	M:	That’s the lady who [snaps fingers]. D:	Pop dancer?

	M:	Yeah, she pops her fingers. She’s a swinger. D:	A swinger. [Laughter]

	M:	They go out, they party. D:	[Laughter]

	M:	We didn’t do that. That group’s mom and them, they didn’t look like that. They used to go to church on Sunday, and they just talked with each other, and got stuff. And talk about each other I guess. No, he left my butt, but I was not going back. My father was at that booth. “You be home at eleven.”





	U2:	Even though you had a baby?



	M:	You be home at eleven o’clock. Alright, you can’t be rambling the streets all night. You’re just a loose woman. So, anyhow.

	D:	Mom told me something about a number hit, and that’s why they had to move to Chicago. That’s why he never leaves Chicago.

	M:	Oh yeah. All the Black people, there was a plane crash, I think. And all of the Black people played the number.

	D:	Of the plane that crashed?



	M:	Right. Of the number of the plane, or whatever it came for the person. Number on the plane, or maybe it was the time they left, I don’t know which.

	D:	This was around 1955?



	M:	Yeah, yeah. And all the Black people played it, and Ed—of course his name was Edmund—his uncle was the number runner. He was the banker. Her father would run some numbers, and he would, he was smart so he used to own a machine in the apartment. They lived in Harlem. And then they would lay off— when it was too heavy—they would lay off to give it to somebody else. If people had put a whole lot of money on it. The uncle would take the numbers that I guess if the people hit for just a little bit of money, and he could pay that off. So he made a decent living. But anyhow, this plane crash and all the Black people in Harlem played the number, which meant he had to get out of town. Fool around with Black people with their money for their numbers, are you crazy?

	U2:	The number head? M:	Yes.





	U2:	That’s crazy.



	D:	[Laughter]



	M:	It be crazy if you stay here. That’s when he went to Chicago. He lived 127th Street. And he used to eat in the Palm Café.

	U2:	How come he didn’t take you guys with him? M:	Huh?

	U2:	How come he didn’t take you guys with him? M:	He couldn’t take me.

	D:	You didn’t want to go to Chicago? M:	Why would I want to go there?

	D:	[Laughter]



	M:	If his uncle had some money, and he had to leave, you’d go there? If he had to go to Chicago—you’ve never been to Chicago—you’d leave your mother, and your father, and your sisters, and your brothers, and go there? Crazy.

	D:	[Laughter]



	M:	I know I can eat here. I know I can eat at my Aunt Anna’s house. I can eat at cousin Rudy’s house. [Laughter] I know they take care of me. Shucks, I ain’t going. I don’t know those people. And I never saw Edmund’s mother. Edmund’s mother, I never saw her. I think she was a [snaps fingers].

	D:	Would he come back and visit? M:	Who?

	D:	Edmund? My grandfather?





	M:	Oh yeah. He would come back. He had been glad to come back here. He wouldn’t get in my house. Not to spend the night, no way. You let me get on the welfare, the home relief. The home relief. Not me. He was my color, but not my kind, honey. That I found out. You don’t take care of your baby, at least show up. And you don’t know how that baby’s eating, what I could be doing. And that’s his baby. Don’t work like that. I don’t come from that. Get your butt away, don’t come by me. Don’t come by me.

	D:	Right, well thank you grandma. I appreciate it. M:	I didn’t tell you anything really good though.

	D:	You told me some good stuff. I can always come back and do more. I can get your recorder, and you can record yourself.

	M:	I tell you one thing. You come from a good family. You come from people who go to work. They don’t ask for nothing. They go to work. They may get drunk, but they go to work. [Laughter]

	D:	[Laughter] So no heavy machinery? M:	They go to work.

	D:	Alright.



	M:	They get drunk on Friday night after they get paid. They don’t bring the money home. The poor lady there crying with the babies.

	D:	I have one more question now. Franklin Lane School— M:	Franklin K. Lane.

	D:	Yeah, Franklin K. Lane. You said you were the first school, you were the first class, to integrate their school.





	M:	We were the big end school. The first end school. D:	Ah, okay.

	M:	There was some who were there, but you know when they redistrict a school?



The first year that they redistrict us.



	D:	[Inaudible 1:05:46].



	M:	Right, because Momma and them, they went to Girls’ High, which is a neighborhood school.

	D:	That’s where you were supposed to go had they not redistrict.



	M:	Had they not redistrict I would have gone to Girls’ High, because it was Girls’ High and Bushwood where most of the Black kids went. And there was another school in eastern district, which was east New York. Aunt Norse went to Girls’ High. She went to Girls’ High.

	D:	And you said most of the teachers there were Irish as well? M:	Oh yeah. At that time most of the teachers were Irish.

	D:	Just in general?



	M:	In Brooklyn, most of the teachers were Irish. We didn’t have that many Black school teachers here. No, we didn’t have that many. We didn’t even have that many in 35, which was a junior high school. It started as just an elementary school, then they advanced it to junior high, but we didn’t have that many Black teachers in here. I know them. They knew their Black kids and you—

	D:	Knew the Black teachers. M:	Huh?

	D:	You knew the Black teachers?





	M:	There sure I did. And they didn’t tolerate nonsense. They lived in our neighborhood, too. My first trip overseas, I went with Ms. Fish. She was an English teacher. She lived on Scotts’ Neighborhood. She was a nice lady.

	D:	Where’d you go?



	M:	It was one of those islands. It was one of the islands. D:	For a school trip, or just to go?

	M:	No. I went to go. I went to go. Momma didn’t have money to send me on no school trip.

	D:	That’s why I’m kind of figuring how you went. [Laughter]



	M:	No. But I’ve been working since I was about twelve. I had my own money. D:	So you saved that money and bought your ticket.

	M:	I had my own money. I gave my money to my mother, and she gave it back to me. I asked Momma what I could have, but she never bothered us about money. The only one she should have bothered was Gilbert. He used to hide his. He used to go buy clothes, and hide them underneath the mattress. But me and Bootsie, we gave our– we came home with our money, and gave it to Momma because we knew she needed it, because Daddy was giving his money to a lady down the block who sold liquor.

	D:	Was it a liquor store, or was it just somebody who made it at home? M:	They used to sell liquor in their house.

	U2:	Wasn’t it prohibition?



	D:	Prohibition was [19]20s.



	M:	No, but people used to– I guess they still do. That’s a whole underclass.





	D:	So they would make the liquor at home.



	M:	No, they’d go to the liquor store and buy their liquor and then you come and get a drink, and they charge you two dollars a drink.

	U2:	Oh, I know. M:	Huh?

	U2:	It’s cheaper than going to buy your own bottle. M:	Yeah.

	U2:	And then you got to meet up with other friends over there, so it’s like a bar in someone’s house.

	M:	Yeah, it’s in somebody’s house.



	D:	And mom was telling me something behind there was a shootout in one of the basements. There was a basement that got hit or something.

	M:	Oh yes. On Putnam Avenue. And this lady here, they liked Charlene, because she got long hair. You know Black people like people with long hair. You know how they used to like the little gala gals with their long hair? I tell you there was a shootout right on the corner, and they—

	D:	What year was this?



	M:	Charlene was probably about ten. D:	So about [19]65 I think.

	M:	Yeah, about [19]65. And she go to Sunday school. And then she coming home from Sunday school. They had this fight, this thing with this, this thing. They looking all in the backyards. They firing guns, because there was some guns that were lost, and this is on my block, alright. And Charlene was coming home from





Sunday school, and they liked Charlene because she’s just a cute little girl. Lo and behold, I don’t know. I don’t know, but that house stayed there for a while. They used to gamble on Friday, Saturday nights selling liquor. They even had rooms I heard, yeah. And Charlene come home from Sunday school, and she liked them and they like her too, because she’s this cute little girl all dressed up, you know?

	D:	Uh-huh.



	M:	Coming home from Sunday school. And she think they cute too, ‘cause the ladies they look good, right. Okay.

	D:	Want me to burst this place?



M:  [Laughter] Yeah, but that was a nice block. That was Pat’s father’s house yeah. It’s a nice block to this day. As nice as this block. Only got, it has brownstones. And I should have had that house.

D:   What happened?



	M:	Pat’s mother wouldn’t let me have that house, because Pat has never been really ambitious. Pat’s a nice, intelligent woman. And she’s very well-read and all that. But Pat don’t have a hustle. Like I’ve always been a hustler. And I was too much of a hustler for her mother, and Pat was too laidback. Pat’s mother wished Pat had been more like me, to really go out and hustle. But that’s not Pat. Pat’s a very bright woman, and she ain’t gonna go out there and be killing herself or something. She wants to read, have a nice life. But I want more. And I want my own. You don’t have to give me nothing. [Laughter] And don’t tell me what to do. Charlene is just like me.





	D:	All right. Thank you grandma. I guess we should go to the bank. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Jennifer Romero, February 22, 2017 Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, March 19, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019