AAHP 004B; Chandler; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 004B Isaac Chandler Jr.

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Marna Weston on August 16, 2010 1 hour | 26 pages



Abstract: Mr. Isaac Chandler describes his duties and experiences as a 4H agent in Florida in the 1950s and 1960s. The discussion then moves to how African Americans bought, and eventually lost, land in Florida. Mr. Chandler then talks about how he came about buying his own estate, motivating more African Americans to study and pursue careers in agriculture, his own work with schools in north Florida, and the importance of teaching students about black history and culture. Mr. Chandler discusses the mission of the SER (Society, Economics, and Resources) Club for African American extension agents and how when he was an agent, he and his colleagues fought for equal pay. The interview concludes with Mr. Chandler and Weston recognizing African American people in Florida politics and positions of power today.



Keywords: [African American History; Hamilton County, Florida; Land Ownership; Agricultural Extension]











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 004B

Interviewee: Isaac Chandler Jr. Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: August 16, 2010



	W:	Well, Mr. Chandler, when you retired in 1987, what were you doing when you retired? What was your job?

	C:	I was an extension agent for the 4H and agriculture. I’m 4H Coordinator for the county.

W:  When you retired did anybody sit you down and say, “We’d like to be able to take advantage of your experience in the future. Could you write a few things down for us or give us the benefit of your experience?” Did anything like that happen?

	C:	No.



	W:	Okay so understanding that that did not happen, I’d like to ask you—we are in an age now where many people are retiring who began working in the [19]50s and the [19]60s and before then. Just kind of what they call a generational change over. So an entirely new group of people are going to be in leadership positions in agriculture, education, and a broad range of fields in the next five years. Do you think it will be beneficial for these new people coming in to have the benefit of your experiences in the institution and if so, what is the best way to try and accomplish that, to transfer your experience to the next generation?

	C:	Well some of my experiences might not have been so good because when I started work my title was Negro County Agent, and I worked with African American farmers and youth. Well I was everything because even the women, they didn’t have a woman working with the African American women here and any information the needed I would try to get pamphlets for them from the University of Florida. At that time the pamphlets were free; you didn’t have to pay





anything for them. And I connected that way with them. And some of them were even farmers at that time. We had a lot of small farmers. But I came to the county in 1952. There were 233 African American farm families in the county. And right now I’d say it’s less than twenty that are actually engaged in farming.

	W:	What do you think attributed to that steep decline from two hundred plus to twenty today in the time of your career?

	C:	Well when I was at the laundry, the older people that was their way of making a living. And some of the younger people, they’ve moved on to other things and a lot of them have even gotten rid of land. So there’s no farming there. I know three or four families that held onto their land. A lot of them either sold it or lost it.

	W:	Mmhm. When you say lost it, what were the factors that contributed to losing it?



	C:	Well a lot of them are-when the older people left and the younger people they didn’t think they would keep the prices up. A lot of them lost it that way. And then sometimes the heirs couldn’t agree and they lost property that way also. And that’s not just Hamilton County; that’s all over. I don’t know of any county where you have a large number of African American farmers. And one other thing was tobacco. When they lost the tobacco that was a source of income and a lot of them stopped farming. The government even bought up some of the allotments from them and they just let it go. A few of them might have a few livestock or something like that but actually getting down and farming, they are not doing it.

	W:	Pulling from the recent news, I don’t know you may have followed the story of Sherry Sherrod from the USDA?

	C:	Yeah.





	W:	That was in the news the last couple of weeks about how they spliced together something she said that made it seem like she was making racist comments but really she was trying to help some White farmers and they came to her defense and said, “No she really helped us.” That’s reminded me of the ways that it’s reported that some Black farmers lost their lands because there weren’t able to get the loans, and the credit, and help that they were supposed to.

	C:	That’s true, too. And then a lot of them got the loans and weren’t able to keep up the payment. And a lot of them—this happened even before my time. I used to hear my daddy talking about how they weren’t only Blacks they were even some of the Whites. They got these loans and they said a thirty year loan and a lot of them didn’t know that they were supposed to keep up the interest on that loan.

They thought that as long as they paid it off in thirty years it was okay. A lot of them lost their land like that; quite a few of them. And my daddy was afraid of that if you want to know the truth. He didn’t like buying anything on credit especially if it had anything to do with his land. So he held on to it that way.

W:  What do you think that concern that your daddy had about going into debt came from? Do you think it was some experience he had or knowledge of-

C:  It was either that or some of the experiences that other people had. He saw what was happening to them and he just didn’t think if you had resources, especially if they were on the farm—to make your money to pay the loan off, then there is no point in getting it.

W:  Yeah so just don’t worry about getting a new plow or tractor, just do it the way you always do it.





	C:	Just do it how you’ve always done it. He was not in the tractor age; he farmed with mules and horses. And when I first started working here he was still farming. Tractors were coming in but didn’t too many African Americans have tractors at that time. They still had those mules even here in this county. When I came to this county here in 1952, I could count the African American farmers who had a tractor and there was less than ten out of two hundred thirty-three farmers. I’d say five or six of them had tractors.

	W:	Do you think that some of that was them trying to remain traditional?



	C:	They just didn’t think that they could make the transition. A lot of them sold their mule and bought tractors but then that tractor had to be paid for. You don’t just buy it. The bank would sell it to you, but it’s up to you to keep up the payments. And you aren’t making the money on the farm to pay it then you didn’t have no other way to do it unless you go out somewhere and get a job and a lot of times that didn’t work.

	W:	So I don’t want to put words in your mout,h but I’d like to try to come to some idea of why you think all of this happened. Was the—let’s just for the sake of having a word for it—demise; we’ll call it “demise”—the demise of the African American-owned farm, at least in this area that you know of, is a combination of not having the credits, not dealing with the technology, the farms, farm life changing, the people were wanting to move off the farm, or what do you think contributed to it if you can put it all together?

	C:	Most of the creditors would not let the African Americans have enough money to do what they needed to do with it. And that’s including the government. The





Farmer’s Home Administration, you know they would either help all the farmers and a lot of times they didn’t let them have enough money to actually do what they needed to do.

	W:	Well weren’t those local boards? Didn’t some of the Black people on the board, wouldn’t they vote to help the Black farmers? Or how did Black people on the board-

	C:	Now that’s the problem. We didn’t have any. I remember we had a group of Black farmers here. They wanted to join the Farm Bureau, and they told them that they didn’t have any Blacks in the Farm Bureau in Florida that time—

	W:	What year was this?



	C:	When I came in 1952 so somewhere in the early [19]50s. W:	Mmhm.

	C:	[19]53 or [19]54.Maybe somewhere in there. And Blacks couldn’t even join the Farm Bureau.

	W:	Are more Blacks involved with the Farm Bureau now?



	C:	A lot of them are. In fact I have my house and children Farm Bureau. And you have to pay a membership which is not much. I think I paid about forty dollars a year for a membership fee. When I first came to the county, Blacks didn’t have the opportunity to join the Farm Bureau. They couldn’t get the insurance and loans from the Farm bureaus that they are able to get now.

	W:	What about the USDA? Didn’t they have any local boards that Blacks could be members of and get loans that way or the Farm Service Administration?





	C:	Well the Farm Service Administration is the same thing as the Home Farmer’s Administration now. See because back then my dad used to borrow money from the Farm Service Administration but he just borrowed enough money to do a crop. You know to do crops you buy your fertilizers, and then you hire the labor, and that’s the money. He tried to pay it back because he didn’t want to be behind. Sometimes the people that were administering it would try to get him to borrow more than he thought he could pay back. He wouldn’t do it and they said, “Well all you have to do is pay the interest.” He said, “Yeah but that principle is still there. You keep getting further and further behind and then you are going to lose it.” I don’t know but they told him that the loans he got were not against his property. But at that time he didn’t own the farm; he was renting the farm that we were living on. He was renting it from [inaudible 14:06] The lady that owned it and my mother were cousins, and she didn’t have any use for it.

	W:	What was her name?



	C:	Her name was Gladys Davis. Her husband came into a lot of property and I don’t know how, but after he passed and she had it, the only thing she could do was to rent it. And I know my dad used to rent that place from her and there was another man that lived next to us; he owned some land next to it, but then he even used to rent some of the land that was a part of the land that my dad was living on and renting.

	W:	This other man, was he also a Black man? C:	Yeah.

	W:	What was his name?





	C:	His name was George Wester? W:	W-E-S-T-O-N?

	C:	Wester. W-E-S-T-E-R.



	W:	Oh and while I’m remembering, what was Gladys Davis’s husband’s name? C:	I don’t know; I didn’t know him.

	W:	Oh ok so you just knew her because she was your mother’s cousin.



	C:	Yeah. I think my granddaddy said that they were second cousins. But anyway, when she got ready to sell that land to my daddy, I was in the Army. She sold it to him and she told him that she was doing it because of my mother and the children. She was selling it to him for that and this other man that was joining us had fringed off seventeen acres of that property. And they had been to court and the court said that she owned it and then she asked my daddy if it would be alright with him to sell this man the seventeen acres. You know, so he wouldn’t have any trouble out of it all. And that’s what happened.

	W:	Okay.



	C:	It was 106 acres at first and the 17 from that I think left 89 acres. In fact, we own that now. My dad then owned that 89 acres.

	W:	And that’s here in Hamilton County? C:	No it’s in Gadsden County.

	W:	In Gadsden County, okay. So—



	C:	I’m not originally from Hamilton County. I came here to work in 1952 and I’ve been here ever since. I made this my home after I’ve been here.

	W:	Are you happy you stayed here?





	C:	Yeah I’ve accomplished a whole lot since I’ve been here. This house and all that even when I first got married I was renting a place to stay. About where this house is, is one lot and back then that garden was another lot. I tried to buy that lot from the lady before I built the house and she kind of got smart with me. And saying she was thinking about buying mines.

	W:	And what was her name?



	C:	I can’t think of her name right now. I know her name; I knew her name, I her real well. But you know, names kind of leave me now.

	W:	Yes, sir.



	C:	And when she got ready to build a house, the city told her that she didn’t have enough land to build a house. Then she came and wanted to sell it so I bought it to keep somebody else from getting it but if I had been able to get it when I wanted it, I would have turned this house a different way. I had to turn this house this way to get it on the lot. But if she had sold me the lot when I really wanted it I would have turned the house that way and face Martin Luther King.

	W:	Oh yeah. I was listening to some people talking on the street right there and I was saying, “Oh it would be interesting if the door was facing that way,” when I was standing on the front porch.

	C:	Now that’s what I wanted to do. X:	Excuse me, where are the keys?

	C:	On the counter. They are not on the counter? X:	I didn’t see them.

	C:	Can you move that if they keys are over there?





	X:	Yeah I found them.



	W:	Well you certainly have had a great deal of achievements you are the only African American person I know in the Florida Agriculture Hall of Fame. Are there maybe one or two others besides yourself?

	C:	Well there might be, I don’t know. But there is not very many of us. W:	I was going to say it would be a short list.

	C:	Since I retired, Hamilton County had suffered in some ways because we don’t have any African Americans in 4H now. We have a 4H agent here but she doesn’t work with the African American unit.

	W:	The local schools? C:	Mmhm.

	W:	Well what do you think is the best way that we can—I mean throughout your career, you know, leading up to the Florida Agricultural Hall of Fame and County Extension, everyone who has been influenced by you or met you has talked about the mark that you left on them in terms of leadership, mentoring, and moving them into careers. And so just talking about agriculture for a second, we have a great shortage of African Americans nationwide in agricultural fields and industries, teaching agriculture at the universities, working in extension. If you had a plan that you put together to turn that around, where would it start and how would you get more Blacks into agriculture fields and in particular to be the professors at universities?

	C:	Well I was working in the agriculture field but at the time that I went to school jobs were easy to get in agriculture because they needed agriculture teachers and





they needed them in the schools. And some of the veterans came back and they were self-employed farmers and they needed someone to teach them. So the jobs were more easy to get there than it was in the traditional school system. And I knew more about agriculture than I did anything else so I said, “Well, I’ll major in agriculture,” and that’s what happened. And when I graduated, I applied for a vocational agriculture job, and they said there weren’t any vacancies.

	W:	Now, was there really not any vacancies? Or were there ‘not any vacancies’ because you were a Black man, do you think?

	C;	Well they need Blacks then, but I mean, in the state of Florida. And then some of the Black men that were in positions then, they were crooked.

	W:	Hmm.



	C:	Now, that didn’t happen to me but I understand a lot of other Black guys that got the jobs as vocational education teacher had to get their supervisor—they had to pay him for a job. And that was true in the school system, not in this county, I didn’t know of it in this county but I know in Duval County for one they said—I don’t remember who it was now I don’t know if was the superintendent or supervisor or something—but they were getting [inaudible 22:21] back after they got the job.

	W:	Give them a part of the salary?



C:   Yeah. So that could have been some of it. But I really don’t know, and I had gone to Georgia and applied for a teaching job, and the guy over at Extension came to my house looking for me and said that the dean of agriculture had recommended me for this job here.





	W:	The dean from where? C:	From FAMU.

	W:	Okay.



	C:	Well it was FAMC at the time. But anyway, the dean of agriculture. W:	Okay and who was that person?

	C:	Dr. C.E. Walker. He’s dead now. But he recommended me for this job so the guy came and talked to me. He said, “I can’t guarantee this job but I will recommend that you get the job.” Because there were, I think, two or three other people that had applied for it. And half the reason why the job became available was because the county agent at that time—African American county agent—was retiring.

	W:	And what was his name?



	C:	His name was Noah Bennet.



	W:	Okay and what was the name of the man who was recommending you because of what the dean at FAMU said?

	C:	Greshin. Joseph Gresham. And Gresham was originally from South Carolina; that was his home. When he retired he went back to South Carolina and I think he went into the undertaker business. But while he was here FAMU had a law school and he took law and he passed the bar in Florida, you know, after the law degree and he was getting ready for his retirement now. He said when he got back to South Carolina he was going to hang out his shingles. He didn’t know how much practice he would get. So I really lost touch when I—fact, I stopped in his home town about a year before he died. But we were traveling. I don’t





remember where we were coming from but we were going on our way home and we stopped in South Carolina where he stayed. I said, “Well its Sunday, so I won’t bother him and I won’t call him.” And after then I had heard that he had passed. But he didn’t just do that he loaned me the money. I had to have a car and he loaned me 300 dollars for a down payment on a used car.

	W:	This is Mr. Greshin? C:	Yeah.

[pause in recording]



	C:	The J.R.E. Lee High school, the African American High school, was here when I came here. Well they built a new one over there. For a long time they changed the name to Hamilton County Middle School and somebody got on to one superintendent and they renamed it to JRE Lee Middle school now.

	W:	Now who was G.R.E. Lee? C:	J.R.E. Lee.

	W:	J.R.E. Lee.



	C:	He was the president of Florida A&M College for a number of years. Now I don’t want to give you the wrong information but I believe he started there in 1926 and I think he died in 1944.

	W:	And did you work closely with that high school while they were open?



	C:	Yeah. I worked closely with all of the schools because a lot of my clubs were in the schools, especially in White Springs, Jennings, and Belleview.

	W:	Now where is Belleview?





	C:	It’s in the northern part of this county up near the Georgia line. When I came here the people that lived out there when they were getting their mail, the address was Lake Park, Georgia because the mail carrier from Lake Park was crossing the line coming into to Florida to deliver in the rural area. He delivered mail over there.

	W:	Was Baleville predominantly a rural Black community?



	C:	Mostly Black. I think there was three or four White families out there at the time, but everybody else was Black. Now Whites own most of the land out there.

	W:	So Baleville, Jennings, Jasper, and then down to White Springs? C:	Yeah.

	W:	So that includes Genoa, Fasal, and all that stuff in between?



	C:	Yeah Fasal and Genoa, that’s between Jasper and White Springs. It’s south of Jasper and north of White Springs.

	W:	Mmhm. Did you have students from those areas?



	C:	Well they either came to Jasper or they went to White Springs to school. I had farmers all out there.

	W:	Mmhm.



	C:	And I thought of the name of that lady that I bought that lot from. Her name was Daisy Morgan.

	W:	Daisy Morgan.



	C:	Yeah.



	W:	Well back to my original question—and I’m sorry I strayed a little bit in what I was asking you—I wanted to know how do you think that institutions like FAMU and





the University of Florida, you know the land grant institutions, can bring in more African American faculty to work in agriculture specifically?

	C:	Well now they tried to merge FAMU with FSU at one time, but FAMU is a land grant institution and FSU is not. So they said that if it merged then it would have to merge with the University of Florida, because they are both land grant institutions. But now I really think that FAMU should stay FAMU. I don’t know how a lot of people fell about it, but if it hadn’t been for FAMU I wouldn’t be here. I wouldn’t have had the opportunity to go to college like I had because at that time—and you know the fight they had? That one guy tried to get into law school and he went somewhere else and got his law degree but even when they integrated they didn’t let him into the school at Florida.

	W:	You are talking about Virgil Hawkins. C:	Yeah.

	W:	And it’s sad. I’m so glad that you mentioned him most of the Black students at the University of Florida and most of the students overall—

	C:	Overall, yeah.



	W:	But most of the Black students have no idea who Virgil Hawkins is. Or very little idea.

	C:	Well it’s because—now this is a different subject—but we had a guy in freshman baseball and well he’s a FAMU graduate. But he said that he didn’t know anything about Jackie Robinson. Jackie Robinson was the reason he was there.

	W:	Mmhm.





	C:	If it hadn’t been for Jackie Robinson or someone like Jackie Robinson he wouldn’t have had the opportunity to play professional baseball.

	W:	Certainly true. I would not have gone to the University of Florida had it not been for Virgil Hawkins.

	C:	Yeah that’s right.



	W:	That’s certainly true. C:	That’s true, yeah.

	W:	I guess part of the difficulty that I’m having is putting my head around how to think of new ways to talk about attracting Black faculty to the University of Florida as an 1862 land grant without having the tradition of African American culture, education, and all the things that go with it, is that it’s difficult to talk today about just recruiting Black faculty. You know, the rules are different now.

	C:	Yeah that’s true.



W:  You are not supposed to just recruit a Black person but the thing is all the institutions are trying to demonstrate their diversity by recruiting people of ethnicity whether they are Black, or Latino, or otherwise.

C:   Right.



	W:	So it’s difficult to promote any kind of strategy which is why I wanted to speak to someone who had retired from the agriculture industry that had knowledge of the institution and how it worked to get your feedback and your knowledge on what’s the best way today we could target Black individuals and bring them to institutions.





	C:	Well I think one thing is we need to—you know they are not going into the agriculture field, especially Blacks. They are not majoring in agriculture. Now I understand at FAMU the only agriculture program they have is agriculture economics. But a straight agricultural program they don’t have like they had when I was there. That’s when you actually got down to doing the actual—we had deering, poultry, and all these things. I had to—I worked in the dairy while I was in school. One summer I couldn’t—I had taken all I could take and the service didn’t need it and wouldn’t offer it that summer so I worked in the dairy. And, you know, they had a man working in the dairy and I worked under him. I know that he was a student too. But he was in the graduate school. They had just opened the graduate school at FAMU. And I worked in the dairy for that summer and then during the regular semester I could get the service that I needed. The dean told me, it’s best for you to not try to go to school this summer. Just work. I would have finished earlier you know if I could have gone straight to—well I finished in four years but it wasn’t, you know. But I don’t think they are going into agriculture especially after the [inaudible 36:08] like they did when I was young.

Now they do have a few students up there now at FAMU. Now I don’t know about the University of Florida; I don’t know how many they have down there. But at FAMU—I don’t really know just what all they offer. But I know that they said that agriculture economics is one of the areas that they are teaching and one of the areas that they are going in to. And in order to get agricultural faculty, they got to have the education in agriculture to be able to teach. And most of them have to have an advanced degree to go to the University of Florida and do it.





	W:	Mmhm.



	C:	You know they can’t go for just a bachelor’s degree. Most of them want a PhD but they are willing to let the masters in there in some areas.

	W:	Mmhm. Well if it’s difficult to talk about bringing the faculty, what about Black undergraduate students? How do we attract them into careers to get a master’s degree, for example, in agriculture and strive for a job or a PhD in agriculture? What can we do with the younger students?

	C:	Well I think we need to let them know what some of the opportunities are in agriculture. Now when I was in agriculture they told me that it was opening a gate because there were other fields that you could go into after you get your bachelor’s degree in agriculture. You could go into, well at that time, veterinary medicine was one and they had a guy here before I got here that was teaching vocational agriculture and he left here and went to medical school. Then he came back a doctor. You take a lot of science in agriculture but you don’t take as much as the science majors. But you can and then that will qualify you to move up higher.

	W:	Mmhm.



	C:	Or even after you graduate you could go back and take some sciences and qualify. So that should encourage people to go in agriculture. Now you don’t have the small farms out there like you used to. But there are areas right across that are still opened and we have to eat. And somebody has to produce the food for us to eat. In one of the areas that they have at FAMU they have a meat goat program up there. And there are a few people here that’s in thatt. In particular I





know three African Americans—but they are women—that are raising meat goats. And I understand that there are some Caucasians in this county that are doing the same thing. That is one of the programs that FAMU has. A lot of people knock FAMU especially African Americans. They don’t want to go up there because all they do up there is party. But they party at the University of Florida, [inaudible 40:20]. You have to know what you are going there for. You are not going there to party; you are going there to get an education. And you don’t have to hang out with the party crew. If you have an assignment or you have a lesson to get then you stay home and get it.

	W:	What type of leadership do you think retired agriculture faculty and persons in extension like yourself can offer to today’s African American graduate student that wants to go into agriculture or a PhD? For example, do you think that maybe like SER—when it was meeting— do you think a group of retired former African American agricultural workers and faculty could provide leadership to advise on ways to bring more Black faculty in? Would that be something that could be valuable?

	C:	I think it could. If you could get the people that retired—agricultural people—to agree to work with them and they might need some help to because, you know, I’ve been out of school. Well I did further study but I graduated from college in 1952 and twice I started working on a master’s. But the last time I got sick and I gave up but I shouldn’t have given up, I should have kept going. I had about twenty-seven hours toward the master’s but only after so long you start losing those hours. And I tried to get leave to go to school and complete that and at the





time they wouldn’t give it to me. And then later on, after I had lost so many hours, then they told me that I could have the time to go and do it. And then I went to FAMU to talk to the man that was over there at the graduate program and I couldn’t even locate him. So he dropped the ball there and that was discouraging. And so I just said, “Well, I’ll just give it up.” But I shouldn’t have; I should have followed through on it.

	W:	If we had groups of retired faculty and extension workers to advise the institutions today—the land grants—about how to do any variety of things whether it is recruiting people or working in the community, how would that work do you think? Would it meet every month or would it meet every year? How could something like that work?

	C:	Well I’ll tell you what. I think they should meet at least once or twice a year to discuss plans, or strategies, or what they needed to do, and the people they needed to contract to get these things going.

	W:	Is SER still meeting?



	C:	It is but I was thinking—just a few days ago—we meet and we plan and don’t follow through.

	W:	Mmhm. First describe what was SER or what is it? C:	Well they voted to change the name.

	W:	Okay.



C:  And when we started it was striving for equal rights and then they changed that and they said social, economical, and resources. I think it’s something like that. That’s was SER is for.





	W:	When and where did it start?



	C:	Well actually I said it started at FAMU when the African American agents had their state meetings. And they got together and talked about how we needed to do something because our salaries were low and what we were trying to do was we were trying to get equal salaries and things of that nature. And we wrote a letter to the dean at that time because we had some concerns. And some of the concerns were that we felt that we should have equal pay and at that time you had to say, “Mr.” and “Mrs.” To the Caucasians and they would call you, “John,” “Boy,” “You gals,” and all that so we put that in the letter. We said that if they call me by my first name I should be able to call them by theirs. And I don’t know what happened in the other counties but, you know, you have the county meetings and so my extension director, which was the county extension director, he brought that up in a meeting one morning.

	W:	And what was his name?



	C:	His name was Rance Andrews. And I guess he thought I was going deny it then I said, “I think it’s only fair. If you call me Isaac, I can call you Rance.” I said, “I think that’s the way it should be.” And that’s the way it’s been ever since. But before then you called them Mr. and Mrs.—or if they had a doctorate—but you don’t call them a PhD, you need to call them Dr. Somebody. But then we had doctors and they called them by their first names just they did like all the rest of us. So that got changed and I’ll tell you what I think really happened. I hired a lawyer to go down to the University of Florida and meet with the dean because at the time they printed a book and they said that the beginning salary of an





assistant county agent at that time was fifty-five hundred dollars a year. Which was good money according to what—and I had been working about seven years and my salary was less than that then and they said that was the beginning salary. So this lawyer went down there and somewhere the federal government got a hold of it. So the justice department sent a man—he was African American—

	W:	Mmhm.



	C:	So he met with us and he told us he met with the county and all the counties but when he came to Hamilton County we all met and he said, “I’m going to tell you now,” he said, “I’m going to talk with you here as a group and then I’m going to talk with you individually.” And he said, “And at the end of this week I’m coming back and meeting with you as group to tell you what’s going to happen.”

	W:	Now what was his name? C:	I don’t know his name.

	W:	Okay.



	C:	It’s been a long time.



	W:	Mmhm. Was John Due your attorney? C:	Yeah.

	W:	Okay, yeah I spoke to Mr. Due a couple weeks ago. He and his wife are planning on coming to the University of Florida in the spring to do a presentation with the law school.

	C:	Yeah. Well John Due was the lawyer. But now what fell through there was I couldn’t get the other African American agents—because what he wanted to do





was file a class action suit—but they wouldn’t do it. What they told me is, “We’ll support you.” They were setting me up for a fall.

	W:	They didn’t want to put their names on it. C:	They didn’t want their names on it just yet. [Break in recording]

	C:	But somewhere I got the ball over.



	W:	Mmhm. Now if you were working with John Due, what year was this about?



	C:	I really don’t know. To be honest it’s been so far back; I really don’t know. It was- W:	Sometime after 1960.

	C:	Yeah sometime there. And when they sent a guy here he told me, when he talked to me individually, he said, “You are going to get some results. Things are going to change.”

	W:	So you met as a group and he talked to you individually and he told you, you were going to get some change.

	C:	Yeah.



	W:	What happened when you all met as a group again?



	C:	Well he told me that he was going to make a report and he was going to tell the truth. He wasn’t going to come up for nobody; he was going to tell it like it was. So what happened in Florida is they froze the salaries of all the Caucasian men until they could bring the salaries of the African American men—and the women, now the women weren’t getting paid either, you know, White women and none of them were but the Blacks were on the bottom. And for about two years they





couldn’t get a raise and I got two raises. The first raise was 3,700 dollars in one pop.

	W:	Mmhm.



	C:	I jumped from eleven to fourteen and then later on—maybe a year or two later—I got another thousand dollar raise. Until the salaries got supposedly on an equal basis—I don’t know whether it was—

	W:	Well there was certainly a big difference from when you started.



	C:	Yeah. And now I think they are unequal now. And we have a few Blacks as county directors and more than a few as CER. In Quincy in Gadsden County, the county director there is African American and in Monticello—

	W:	What about over in Bay County or Escambia? Isn’t there somebody over there? C:	No we got one in Gulf County.

	W:	Gulf County that’s what it is.



	C:	Gulf County. And what’s the county—Panama City, what county is that? W:	I think that’s Bay County, isn’t it?

	C:	Yeah. We got one there. And I understand there is some down in south Florida. I know these up in this area, you know?

	W:	Mmhm.



	C:	They all, when we have our meetings, these participate.



	W:	Do you know Mr. Fuller over in Levy County? I don’t know if you—



	C:	Oh, yeah. Yeah, he’s one. I think he was one of the first to get to be an extension director.

	W:	Now is SER still meeting at all? Did they meet this year?





C:  Yeah we met this year. But that’s when they decided to change the name and I don’t have a minute so I can’t tell you what-

W:   Who’s the secretary now?



C:  I can’t think of her name but she’s in Bay County. She’s the extension director. W:  Okay well I can get in touch with her. And is Mr. Miller still working with it?

C:   Yeah, and Henry Grant in Quincy, and John Lillan in Monticello, and Roy Carter in Port St. Joe. Now there are some other people there but these are the active people working now.

W:   Mmhm.



	C:	You’ve got some retired people that—I’m one of the retired ones that still participate. And there used to be assistant to the dean.

W:   At Florida?



C:   Yeah.



	W:	You are talking about Mr. McPherson. C:	Yeah.

	W:	Mmhm. He retired about a year and a half or two years ago. C:	Mmhm. You don’t have his telephone number, do you?

	W:	No, sir. But I could probably get it from our office because he was very close with Dr. Arrington—

	C:	Yeah.



	W:	So I still know them. So yeah, I can get Mr. McPherson’s number.



	C:	If you can get it and send it to me. I need to get in touch with him. He and I were on a committee and I haven’t heard from him since we met.





	W:	Okay. If it’s something I can help with, I’d be happy to since I’m in between you all. [Laughter]

	C:	Well if you get his telephone number and get it to me, I’d appreciate that.



	W:	Alrighty. Well we’ve gone for about an hour so I know that these interviews tend to wind down around then anyway. And I’m so appreciative of your time and of course I would love to be able to come back.

	C:	Well anytime, yeah.



W:  So just to close the interview I want to give you the opportunity to reflect or say anything you want to, to wrap it up and then at the end of your remarks that will conclude the interview.

	C:	Well I’ve enjoyed talking to you and if I’ve been any help, then I’m glad I could be some help. [Laughter] You know? Although I had all these misfortunate things to happen during the time I worked, I really enjoyed extension work. And now I see the results of it because people come to me—a lot of people come to me—now and say that I inspired them to want to do better, you know, to make a change in their lives. I’m happy to say that I inspired them to want to go to college. And that’s pay, you know, you don’t get your financial pay all the time but if you help, that’s pay. And I think that’s why we are here; that’s what we are all about. I help you and you help me. And that’s about all I have to say.





		Transcribed by:		Liz Grey, March 15, 2013. Audit edited by:	Anna Jimenez, July 17, 2013 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 15, 2019