AAHP 074B; Yarbrough; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 074B Keith Yarbrough African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Elaine Williams on September 3, 2010 5 minutes | 3 pages



Abstract: In this interview conducted at the Association of Black Alumni annual reunion in September 2010, Keith Yarbrough briefly describes how he ended up at the University of Florida, and what his experience was like as a student. He also offers some advice for current and future students in terms of getting the most out of their experience at UF.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 074B

Interviewee: Keith Yarbrough Interviewer: Elaine Williams Date: September 3, 2010



	W:	I’m Elaine Williams interviewing Keith—Yarbrough? Y:	Mmhm. Right, Yarbrough.

	W:	How are you doing today? Y:	Good, thank you very much.

	W:	What was it like going to UF, whenever you came? Y:	Great experience.

	W:	What years were you here?



	Y:	I started in 1976, and I graduated in June of 1981. W:	What was your major?

	Y:	I was in the College of Pharmacy. W:	Oh, wow!

	Y:	That’s good?



	W:	I could not handle it. I’m English major. Y:	That’s great.

	W:	Did you live on campus, or did you live with family?



	Y:	I lived in Jennings Hall for the first two years. Then I moved off campus to 34th Street after the second year.

	W:	How did you like it versus living on or off campus?



	Y:	I would definitely recommend living on campus for as long as a student can. On campus is a great experience. It’s true college. Off campus is not really the college experience. But somehow, my roommate and I convinced our mothers to allow us to move off campus. It was probably a pretty silly decision, but we





handled it. It was fine. It taught us a little more responsibility. But definitely, at least for two years, on-campus is the way to go.

	W:	Was there a certain mentor that you had whenever you were here that really helped you through everything that UF brings?

	Y:	Honestly, not really. That would have been—I mean, there were several instructors and professors, and people around campus that I knew and had a chance to look up to, but no one really that I would identify as a real mentor.

	W:	Were you involved in any of the clubs or organizations on campus while you were here?

	Y:	Nothing too serious. I never pledged a fraternity. I was a little bit involved in—I never sought a campus office or got that involved politically as a candidate, but I did participate in a few of the campaigns. And a little bit of involvement with the College of Pharmacy’s organizations, but nothing too involved.

	W:	What’s the greatest thing that you remember about going to UF and being a student?

	Y:	The greatest thing about going to UF. Well, that’ll take some thought. Now, when it was not as—I notice as the years—even in 1976, when I finished high school, the reputation that—and yeah, I think even more so now; well, probably even more so, or about the same—the reputation of this University has always been one that is pretty intimidating. That is pretty impersonal. That is difficult to graduate from. But I really never found those things to be totally accurate. To me, it was a great experience. In terms of a single memorable experience, oh I don’t know, just the—probably the social events: the football, basketball games; the





get-togethers for breakfast at Broward Hall; the dances and concerts; things like that. They were pretty memorable. Studying and preparing for examinations was not too memorable. That was the other side of the coin. But it was necessary.

	W:	Is there any advice you could offer to current UF students like me, or future UF students?

	Y:	Yes. Just the realization as this is indeed a great and—it’s a university that’s respected worldwide, and recognized worldwide. The students probably think that a lot of the propaganda that’s fed to them is pretty much just propaganda, but it’s legitimate. This is a well-respected university. As a graduate, you can expect to be looked at in a different light than other college graduates. And it’s just, the decision to come here, I applaud anyone who makes this decision, who is able to be a student here. Because it is a—I think it’s quite an honor. Don’t let anybody badmouth the university. [Laughter].

	W:	Well, I think that’s all I have for today. I really thank you for your time, and able to come in.

	Y:	Good, anytime. [End of Interview.]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, August 18, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019