AAHP 740; Thelusma; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 740 Jennifer Thelusma 11-16-2019 Interviewed by Ashley Brickhouse on November 16, 2019

18 Pages



Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; Black lawyers]



AAHP 740

Interviewee: Jennifer Thelusma Interviewer: Ashley Brickhouse Date: November 16, 2019



	B:	Hi this is Ashley Brickhouse with Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. I’m interviewing Jennifer Thelusma on November 16th, 2019. So I just wanted to get some background information about you or just an idea of your school before college and law school. So can you tell me some about your K-12 experiences?

	T:	Sure, I grew up in Miami and I went to public school all through elementary, middle school, and high school. But both of my parents were Haitian immigrants, so I was the first generation American and like of the generation in my family to graduate from high school and so I feel like when I was going to school all through elementary school, middle school, and high school, my parents, especially my mom, always kind of harped on how important it was for us to work hard in school because education was the pathway to opportunity and on top of that, not just to work hard in school, to open up opportunities for ourselves so that we wouldn’t do the same kind of blue collar work that they were doing. But also because they would say that they were like [inaudible 1:31], like “poor men, poor people,” and so they couldn’t really afford to take on the responsibility of us financing our education. And so the harder we worked in school, the more likely we would get scholarships and that way we could have that education and that opportunity and not have to worry about where the money was coming from. So I think especially as like one of the older children in my household, it was so important for me to always be trying super hard and putting as much effort as I could into my schoolwork. But I also found that I really really loved learning. I didn’t really know that I wanted to be a lawyer, I just knew that I wanted to go to









school and that the goal was higher education without necessarily thinking of what that might look like for me, at least not until I guess fairly later in life.

	B:	Oh okay, okay. So that was actually one of my questions but I’ll ask it now. So when did you learn that you wanted to be a lawyer?

	T:	I think that I kind of decided that I wanted to be a lawyer when I was around my junior year of college. I was taking classes at UF. I was taking a lot of history classes and I was also taking political classes in the political science department with judge Stafford and had some opportunities to do internships. I interned on Capitol Hill for congress woman W. Walsh Mitchell and I kind of started seeing the law as a way to affect change without necessarily having to pass new policy. I kind of started learning more about all these inspirational lawyers who, they’re work was all within the four corners of the law but as they were using, and interpreting, and arguing their cases they were basically creating change that had still an impact today on society. So for instance, learning about Brown v. Board and Justice Thurgood Marshall’s work on that case but work on also all of the cases that came before that kind of led to the point where Brown V. Board even came before the United States Supreme Court and essentially was judge made law that desegregated public schools. I kind of started to see law as an avenue to create change in our communities, change in the law, change in policy, and I kind of started seeing lawyers as people who had, I guess, power to affect their communities. Whether they realized it or not, right, ‘cause most lawyers who practice law aren’t practicing law that affects social change. It has to be a very,









very conscious decision, but if they wanted to, historically they have had that capability. The majority of politicians who sit in this U.S. Senate or sit in the U.S. House of Representatives have a legal background and I kind of just saw law as a way to not only create change but also to understand how we got to the point we were to be in what really works and really well in order to make that kind of change.

	B:	Okay so, what kind of law do you practice now?



	T:	Currently, I work at a plaintiff’s firm in D.C. I am doing the two-year public interest fellowship and so the premise of the fellowship is that I spend a majority of my time at my firm working on an active litigation team and a little bit of my time, about three to four months at a non-profit, in DC getting hands on experience working for a non-profit ;whether it’s a non-profit that does litigation of policy or something else. So, my firm’s practice areas are primarily all claims back cases and consumer protection cases. So, the false claims act is a statute that essentially allows individuals who are aware of people who are committing fraud on the government to bring a claim on behalf of the U.S. government and recover that money for the government and then they get like, some small percentage of what money that [inaudible 6:37] recovered. So, for example, I worked on a case where a group of doctors were overbilling Medicaid patients so that they could pocket the money. So we’re currently representing the relators, that’s another legal word I guess for whistleblower, and so we’re representing that whistleblower in that case and it recovers somewhere in the millions of dollars on









behalf of the United States government. And then our other big group act, from my firm are consumer protection cases. So consumer protection cases are primarily class action cases but they pretty much involve any area of the law where consumers are being misled about the quality of things that they’ve purchased or about their interactions with different parts of government. So, for example, one of the cases that we have—I’m just thinking through confidentiality, like what cases are public and what cases are not public right now? So okay one of the cases that I think is public right now is we are bringing a lawsuit in flushable wipes. And so essentially, people were misled to believe that these wipes that they’ve bought are flushable and although they might flush in the first instance or the third instance, ultimately what ends up happening is it ruins your water system and you have bigger issues. So those are kind of what consumer protection cases are and then we kind of take on a number of different cases as well. We take on employment discrimination, housing discrimination, some mortgage fraud cases that falls under our consumer protection umbrella. We’re working on a number of bank overdraft fee cases where banks and credit unions are overcharging clients and they fiduciary duty to their clients but they end up charging them multiple fees for the same transaction, you know, like anything that involves misleading consumers or leaving the consumer worse off. Those are the kind of cases that we primarily work on. I’m also working on a pro-bono case that we’re taking on. It’s a 1983 case where a prisoner’s alleging that the correction officers who were responsible for one of his transfers used excessive force against him, including spraying him with pepper spray for a couple minutes









at a time, leaving him with partial blindness in his right eye, six to eight guards were involved in this transfer. And so, the work that I get to do is really really interesting. There’s complex litigation cases and it’s all on behalf of the plaintiff, so that’s a little about my practice area right now.

	B:	That sounds extremely interesting. So you talked about, you’re in D.C. now. So did you attend Howard Law School?

	T:	No. I went to Duke University School of Law. So Duke, while you’re there, I think one of the things that led me to choose Duke ultimately as my school, Duke has a Duke in D.C. program where you can take a semester and spend the semester working in D.C. while you’re still getting full credit as a Duke Law student. You meet once a week with a faculty member who lives in D.C. and works in D.C. and do a class that once a week and a majority of the credits that you’re getting for the semester is for actually working. So while I was in D.C., I did this my fall of my 3L year, I worked at the U.S. DOJ in their civil rights division in the special litigation section. So the special litigation section of the civil rights division basically enforces the rights of institutionalized persons, whether that’s people who are in juvenile facilities, people who are in state prisons, people who are in state mental health institutions or state hospitals. Kind of keeping states accountable for how they’re treating the people who they’re charged with protecting.

	B:	So, did you always know that you wanted to work in the D.C. area or did you look into different places—so how was that process of deciding D.C?









	T:	I think that I considered working in different places. So, one of the things that kind of drew me towards the legal profession the ability to affect change and in part like how law interacts with policy and so before I knew that I wanted to be a lawyer I had a pretty strong inclination that I wanted to be involved with policy work in some capacity. Right after I graduated high school I worked on President Obama’s reelection campaign and so that kind of like spurred me into believing that whatever career I was ultimately gonna take, I was going to have a large part of that career have some kind of policy component so that whatever I was doing in my career, I was doing something to hopefully make the lives of people around me better on some kind of larger scale. During my time as an undergrad at UF, I spent a summer working in Congress for a congresswoman and then I also spent a semester doing the Bob Graham’s Center internship where they send you to Tallahassee for a semester and you get to work with local representatives, senator, or you can work in different areas of Florida government if you wanted to. I think one of the interns while I was there worked at the Florida Department of Education so that was something that was open to you. But I think what drew me to D.C. was just that it was the seed of U.S. government and so I had this picture in my mind that if I was gonna be anyone that was gonna have something to do with policy and with affecting change. The place to do it was going to be in the nation’s capital in Washington D.C. So I think I kind of had that in mind when I was applying to law schools, looking at law schools that either were located in

D.C. or had some kind of D.C. connection but also had programs that had public interest support and public interest components so that when I was ultimately









getting ready to explore practicing law I had the support that I needed to learn about the areas of law that I was interested in. So I kind of very intentionally tried to keep D.C. in the back of my mind as I was applying to law schools, so all part of that was choosing experiences during law school. So I think that for my both my 1L and 2L summer job, I chose to work at organizations that were based out of D.C., so for my 1L summer I think I worked at Earth Justice in their D.C. office, doing environmental litigation and then the following summer I worked in another plaintiffs firm in their D.C. office. I don’t know if D.C. is gonna be where I am going to be forever but for now I think that it’s a really great place to be.

	B:	Sounds like it. So can you tell me some about your experiences so far in the legal system as a lawyer, being a Black woman? Has that made you view law differently?

	T:	Well so my experiences in life are as a Black woman so I don’t know how I would view my experiences through any other lens but I would say as a Black woman walking into the legal field I am definitely conscious that I am one of few. The legal profession is a profession that is dominated by men, and it’s dominated by White and to the extent that there are women, there are more White women then there are women of color or then there are Black women. And so, I think that part of my experience in, I guess first and foremost in choosing Duke as a law school was that I felt like it was somewhere where I could have a home and a strong community support. I remember when I went to visit Duke Law during admitted students weekend, there was an infinity dinner where different affinity groups, the









Black Law Student Association, Hispanic Law Student Association, which is now LLSA, the Asian Law Student Association, you know Women’s Law Student Association had this kind of like dinner, and I think the dinner started at like six or seven and we were able to kind of comingle with whatever groups that we wanted to and to kind of learn a little bit more about the student experiences and I sat in star commons, which is kind of like a mesh hall- cafeteria but so much more beautiful located at the law school and I was talking to a group of Black law students and by the time we left it was like 10:30 at night and we were, I guess it was kind of like you were having dinner with your family where you kind of just laugh and joke the whole time and before you know it, it’s time for you to be gone and I wanted to definitely choose to be somewhere where I would feel supported as a Black woman and I think that was another big component of choosing Duke, just knowing that I would feel like I fit in. Like I had a community who I could turn to while I was a student there. But I do think that beyond experiences of student, in my legal career, you kind of just, I mean it’s so individual right, every individual is so different. I would say that for me, walking into certain spaces, I am very conscious of how many people do and do not look like me. So for instance, the place that I worked at my 2L was the plaintiff’s firm here in D.C., it wasn’t super small right, so this was a firm that had I think over one hundred lawyers like nationwide and was relatively large in their D.C. office but I very quickly noticed that although they had Black staff, like they have Black paralegals and they had Black office assistants, there were no Black lawyers and I found myself asking a paralegal very early on in the summer, like “Hey so how come there aren’t any









Black lawyers in this office?” like “Are there any Black lawyers in our other offices, have there ever been any Black lawyers?” and I think part of it was just like not feeling as though I could ask for advice from just anybody or if that just anybody could put themselves in my shoes. And so when you get to a space when there isn’t anyone that looks like you, you kind of have to wonder if I am in a place where I need advice, “Who can I trust to ask?” And not to say that all skin folk is kin folk but sometimes to reach out to someone who’s kind of been in your shoes from the perspective that you’re standing in now and can kind of relate to some of your struggles and your experiences. Because as much as someone might think they understand what they’re going through because they’re a woman or because they’re a different religious minority or whatever, nothing is comparable and so I have found myself kind of looking to reach out to Black women to make those connections. I remember when I was applying to post- law school jobs and I was identifying places to work, one of the things that I would do is I would go on to websites of places I was interested in working in and kind of like cold emailed people in the offices for kind of informational lunches and interviews and nine times out of ten if I had to cold email someone, it was gonna be someone who was a Black woman. Like hands down, I would reach out to other people if there weren’t [inaudible 20:21] person, but I think I had the understanding that someone else who was a Black woman would kind of always be looking to reach back and pull forward as much as I think that I’ve been trained and so it just made the experience easier and it also made the advice taking easier because you can’t ask someone who has never lived there









experience as a Black woman to give you advice on how to navigate the workspace as a Black woman because I think some of the biases people have when they approach me don’t apply to how they would approach a White colleague or a male colleague, you know?

	B:	Definitely. So, since you’ve been a lawyer what have you experienced, the resources and opportunities to serve the community that have been strengthened or that weren’t afforded before being in that profession?

	T:	Can you repeat the question?



	B:	Has there been any opportunities and/or resources to serve the community that have been afforded to you as a lawyer that you didn’t necessarily have before when you were still in law school, type of things?

	T:	So I’ve been a lawyer for like a month [Laughter]. But I graduated law school earlier this May 2019.

	B:	Oh Congratulations.



	T:	I started working in September but I didn’t pass the bar until the middle of September and took my oath towards the end of October. So, like officially official I’ve been a lawyer for less than a month. That being said, I think that there are always opportunities to serve your community if you’re looking out for them. I don’t think that I’ve come across any particular opportunities in the past couple of months that jump out at me at this moment. I will say that I definitely had people in my life kind of reach out to me and ask me—like for instance, my sister was in









this car accident when she was a sophomore I think in college and she’s been working on her case and she called me super late one night and asked me, you know, for advice on like not even necessarily advice she was just like help me understand what my lawyer is telling me because they have not been giving me the time of day and I really don’t know what to do and how to move forward or whether I even want to pursue the case and that’s something that I am fortunate to be able to kind of help her with. Of course I’m not coming from it as her lawyer but I am coming from it as someone who has some knowledge and background in law and I can kind of break down basic information that she was just like “Okay that makes me feel better,” because I honestly had no idea what the system was saying or what they were talking about and for her it was just I guess kind of having the ability to have someone take that much more time to explain and to help her understand and I think that was something that was valuable for me as well because I think that I never want to find myself in a point of my career where I’m losing touch—where something is so—I’m so used to seeing it every day and I’m so used to putting my hands on it every day that I can’t make myself take a step back and see it from the perspective of the client and explain to them, you know, this is what’s going on, this is why. And reassert to them that hey you know I’m your advocate and I’m here for you so whatever it is that you need for me to explain to you, I’m gonna give you that time so that you are not put in a position where you’re reaching out beyond your legal counsel who you’re most likely paying to represent you, to figure out what the heck is going on in my case.









	B:	Yes. I definitely understand. Do you have people who have inspired you in law or in activism that you kind of look up to? It doesn’t have to be anyone you know necessarily, just people that have inspired you.

	T:	Definitely. I think there are plenty of people that inspire me on a regular basis and kind of make me want to be the best version of myself and kind of inspire me in different ways where the takeaway is not necessarily I will do things exactly where you are but I can respect and honor where you’ve come from and I want to keep this in the back of my mind as I’m doing the work that I’m doing. So for example, one of these women, there’s this woman who graduated from Duke Law when there were just five Black students in the class. And she went into law school with a fourteen month old son, her name is Margot Jackson, and I remember I think my 2L spring, I was sitting outside my writing professor’s class and it was [inaudible 12:08] weekend and she just came up to me and I was waiting for office hours, she was like excuse me do you go here and I was like yes. She was like oh wonderful, she’s always looking for opportunities to meet young Black women and young Black students and young students and young students who are interested in public interest law and kind of like affording them the opportunity to pass on her wisdom and so she just came up to me and she was just like this is someone who I want to introduce myself to and let them know hey I’m here as a resource and lo and behold she has been such a great resource for me during this time that I’ve been a student and also during this time now since I’ve graduated law school, kind of just repeatedly checking in on me, making it her goal to see where I was and to offer her advice and I just had









dinner with her last Saturday. One of the things that she was telling me was when she was a lawyer, she didn’t want to make it—she’s retired now, she said that when she was practicing law she didn’t want anyone to question whether she deserved being where she was and so one of the things that she did was she worked seven days a week for the majority of her career and was in the office seven days a week and even when she tapered it down and was only in there six days a week she had two young boys and she was still dragging her cases to the beach and watching them go in the water and still working and I’d have to remember that for a long time. A lot of our elders worked that way so that they could create opportunities for us in the workspace and she told me “You can’t leave it up to anyone to make assumptions about you, because you’re a Black woman in this space you have to work harder than anyone else who is in this space” and it’s something that I am definitely thankful to kind of have that real love and real advice and to honor even if it’s not necessarily something that is my style, I think that it’s humbling to kind of keep in mind how hard people worked to so that I can have the opportunities that I have. But, there are endless, like there’s an endless list of women who I can’t even name off of the top of my head right now who have inspired me in my work and as activists. Some of the people who I respect the most are people who are on the ground everyday working. People who are organizing for labor organizations, SCIU, planned parent—I mean for different lobbying efforts like planned parenthood, people who are working with dream defenders, people who are actively working in their communities to create different resources for their communities to start programs









for kids, people who are up—whatever Florida legislature is in session, they’re like “Okay I’m on my way moving to Tallahassee for the next couple of months so that I can fight every bill that’s coming.” I mean there’s so many of those women who I met during my time at UF who I maybe don’t know personally but their work is so important. Someone, I can’t even remember, omeone always used to tell me that we need people who can walk through the door but we also need people who can kick the door down and I think that when it comes to affecting change and creating a world where everyone has access to the resources that they need, it is so important to have people on both sides of the aisle. We need people who are out there arguing laws just as much as we need people who are out their protesting them and that’s something that I think is easy to forget when you’re on one side or the other but both are still important.

	B:	So, speaking of protesting, in my time here at UF, UF is known for controversial speakers. We’ve had Richard Spencer, where there was giant protests and riots. We just recently, this past semester had Donald Trump Jr. come and speak, Charlie Price, I believe that’s his name—something Price—but they’re known for having controversial speakers, so I just want to know in your time here at UF were you involved in any protests or organizations against the school, or not necessarily the school, but just any protests or anything like that in your undergrad experiences?

	T:	Yeah. So during the time when I was a student at UF, one of the things that seemed to kind of be happening all the time, like we could not catch a break, was









Black people, Black men, Black women being murdered by police whether they were unarmed. Whether it was Eric Garner or Sandra Bland. I mean, I think that our community did such a great job. The Black community at UF and in the Gainesville area did such a good job of coming out and showing support whenever things like that happen, whether we were planning protests where we’re walking from downtown towards UF’s campus or whether we were meeting in front of Turlington. I think the students at UF have always been so great at making sure that they’re rallying and making sure that they’re making their voices heard and giving honor to the people who were lost so that their deaths were not in vain, and I think it’s almost fitting for so much of America’s history, young people, college students, have played such a role in affecting change by saying enough is enough, you know, and saying that they want their voices to be heard and I can only hope that as time goes on students never lose sight of how important it is for them to speak up, for them to make their voices heard, even if it just for them. Like, even if it is like a point of cathartics for you, because you are a woman who was born of a Black mother and has Black brothers and has a Black father and every time these things happen you feel like the next victim is going to be you. Even if the protest is just a way for you in yourself to put your pain somewhere, that is important, and I hope that students are for many generations forward are always going to let their voices be known and let their voices be heard.









	B:	So, I just wanted to know what are some of your goals ultimately? So, say if you have a ten-year plan, what would be your ten-year plan in your career as a lawyer type of thing?

	T:	My ten-year plan. I don’t know. I feel like I’m such at the top of my career right now that I haven’t even thought beyond the next couple of years, like I said right now I’m doing a two year fellowship and I hope that when my fellowship is over I can continue to work either in the non-profit or in the for-profit sector that focuses on litigation where I’m giving voice to plaintiffs but I also—or working to amplify the voice of plaintiffs rather, but I also don’t know if I necessarily want to stay in litigation long term. I mean I do want to stay in litigation at least for now but at some point I want my career to have some sort of a policy overlap and I think part of the beauty of the work that I do now in consumer class action cases for example, your client is more than your individual plaintiff because your client is representing a class of people who have also been wronged by the same company and so hopefully, I don’t know, hopefully long term I can do more work that affects a lot of different communities. But who knows, I don’t know, who knows? I wish I was maybe like five or ten years older and had a more concrete sense of where I wanted to be in the world and what I wanted to do. But right now I’m kind of just taking it day by day and appreciating the fact that every day brings new learning and new ideas that I had no idea about. I mean if you ask me in high school ten years if I’d be a lawyer I wouldn’t think so, so I mean I have no idea.









	B:	I also think that’s like the beauty in law is that, I don’t think it’s ever boring. I don’t think you can have a boring day really. There’s always something to learn.

	T:	Yeah and we’re so moving away from a society where people work the same job for twenty to thirty years and retire. I mean we are in a world more and more where everyone might change careers like five, six, ten times and I’m okay with that. You know?

	B:	Yes, definitely. So my last question was do you have any advice for Black women that are wanting to pursue a legal career. Just when it comes to activism or in general. Just any tips or anything.

	T:	I think if I had any advice for Black women who wanted to pursue a legal career it would be to really know their why and to stick to that. So kind of just keep in mind why you want to pursue a legal career. Less so where you see yourself and more so what you see yourself getting out there or putting out there and I think that, like knowing why you’re doing the work that you’re doing is going to help you stay grounded when different challenges come up. So, knowing that you want to go to law school because you have always wanted to be a public defender and more importantly you always wanted to represent kids, when you are in law school itself and in your legal career, everything that you do is going to be geared towards having that goal in the back of your mind and it’s going to help you stay grounded so that whenever all the noise is happening and everyone who might be at your law school seems to be going down a different path and you kind of start questioning, is this really what I want to do? Should I be wanting to do









something that you know I might make more money off of or should I want to do something that is more prestigious or do I even belong here. You remember that you belong here and this is why and no you’re not gonna do that other job or take that other opportunity because that’s not why you’re here and that’s not your goal, that’s not your calling and just knowing your why is gonna bring you through so much that might seem insurmountable.

	B:	Thank you so much. So those are all the questions that I have. Did you have anything that you wanted to add to the end of the interview?

	T:	Not that I can think of. Thank you for thinking of me as an interviewee.



	B:	No thank you so much for responding back to me. I appreciate it so much. [End of Interview]

Transcribed by: Ashley Brickhouse, December 5, 2019 Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, April 26, 2021

Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, May 10, 2021