AAHP 174A; Henry; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 174 Scherwin Henry African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Marna Weston on May 12, 2011 49 minutes | 21 pages



Abstract: Scherwin Henry, who was a city commissioner in Gainesville, Florida at the time of this interview, was born and raised in Gainesville. He describes his family history, particularly his grandparents and parents, and current family dynamics.

Commissioner Henry attended Lincoln High School and describes the teachers and mentors who stood out to him, and the reasons for the continued importance of Lincoln’s legacy among alumni. He also shares that he was attending Lincoln when it was closed for integration in 1970, and so he graduated from Gainesville High School, and he describes those experiences. And for the sake of the recording, he shares his excellent singing voice upon request of the interviewer.





[Keywords: African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Lincoln High School; Integration]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 174A

Interviewee: Scherwin Henry Interviewer: Marna Weston Date of Interview: May 12, 2011



	W:	This is May 12, 2011. This is Marna Weston from the Sam Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida and we are in our conference room of Pugh Hall and today our guest is Gainesville City Commissioner Scherwin Henry.

Thank you very much for being here today.



	H:	Thank you for the invitation.



	W:	Would you please spell your first name and if your middle name is also not unusual if you would spell that as well?

	H:	Okay, Scherwin, S as in Sam, C as in Charles, H-E-R-W-I-N. Leonard, L-E-O-N- E-R-D. Henry, H-E-N-R-Y.

	W:	Okay, now I thought you might have—I guess with a name like Marna you think about it—were you a Scherwin, well, that middle name has gotta be in there, too. Leonard. Are those both family names?

H:  No, actually my mom gave me the name of Scherwin because of Sherwin- Williams. She looked at it as a successful name and she wanted me to be successful, so, she named me Scherwin.

W:   Well, that’s marvelous and what a great story and what a profound truth as well.



	H:	Well, thanks. I mean, I’ve been blessed but the main thing is I’ve come to know what my purpose is, so to speak, and that’s what’s important, I guess.

W:   When and where were you born?



	H:	I was born here in Gainesville, Florida September 25, 1952 at Alachua General, actually.

W:   The old Alachua General, which is now Shands.







H:   Yeah, the original Alachua General.



W:  When you were born there, just a sense of Gainesville history, is that because, was it a segregated hospital at that time or one predominantly used by African Americans or was it just the circumstances of that’s where your mother went?

H:  Two things. Back then, yes it was segregated but my mom also worked at Alachua General as well. She was a nurse’s assistant there.

W:   Your mother and your father. Who are they?



	H:	Okay, my father is Elmer Henry, no middle name. My mom was Altamese Henry.



My father is still living, he’s eighty-six years old. My mom is deceased, she passed away October 18, 1990.

	W:	I’m very sorry for your loss. Do you recall their dates of birth and where they were from?

	H:	Yeah, my mom March 20, 1924, born in Cordele, GA. And my father Elmer Henry, January 4, 1925, born in Jacksonville, FL.

	W:	Do you have knowledge of your grandparents and if so, could you start on your dad’s side?

	H:	Okay. My father’s father was named Ed Henry. It’s my understanding that he was born in Brunson, as well. My grandmom was Aidella Murray Henry, she’s from Micanopy. And my maternal grandparents, Albert Higgins—my brother Albert White is named after him, actually—and my mother’s mom, Annie Lee Higgins, well, she was Annie Lee Waters and became Higgins in marrying my grandfather, Albert Higgins.







W:  You have such clarity and depth of memory, I can tell, when you talk about your grandparents, it’s a beautiful thing. Do you have much knowledge of your family beyond your grandparents, do you know who their parents were, as well?

	H:	No, I don’t actually. Oh by the way my mom was born in Cordele, Georgia, I didn’t tell you that. But yeah she was born in Cordele, Georgia and they moved to Gainesville when she and my aunt Barbara Higgins were small. But as far as my great grandparents, no I really don’t have much knowledge about them.

	W:	On either side.



	H:	On either side, yeah. W:	Brothers and sisters?

	H:	I have an assorted- my immediate siblings, my older brother Willie White, born May 20, 1942 and he’s deceased, he died last year, actually. Albert White, my second oldest brother, born December 4, 1943, and we have the same mother, different father. Their father was a victim of a mistaken identity and from what I was understand he was shot and killed. My brother Charles, Elmore Charles Henry, named after my dad, he’s two years older than I, born June 1, 1950. And then it’s me Scherwin L. Henry born 9/25/[19]52, then my sister, the only “girl” of the family, Janice Lee Henry, her middle name is after my maternal grandmother, she’s born September 11, 1953. Funny thing about that, too, she and I are 11 months, 14 days apart, so we become the same age for two weeks before my birthday. We always tease each other about that. She’ll say, “Well I caught up with you,” then after two weeks then my birthday comes.

	W:	Not for long.







	H:	Yeah. And then the baby of the family is Michael Edward Henry, he was born July 6, 1954. And then we have stepsisters who were also brought into the family from my dad’s side. Viola Jones and her birthday is December, I want to say December 6 or December 12 and the year she was born I don’t remember. And then my next oldest sister is Emma Jean Cooper and I have no knowledge when her birthday is, and then there is another sister, Marcia Plumber, and then Patricia Wesley, and they’re daughters of my father. Viola and Emma Jean are more part of the family than the other two sisters because they spent a lot of time with us growing up. The beautiful thing about it, though, is as we were growing up, our parents really—the word stepsister or stepbrother wasn’t part of our family vocabulary. We were sisters and brothers and that’s the way we still are today, we don’t use the stepsister or stepbrother term because we’re family and that’s just the dynamic. That’s the way our mother and father raised us and that’s the way everything was. And to me, that’s the way it should be, really.

	W:	So what is Thanksgiving like, is everybody all in one place?



	H:	Yeah, most of the time, we meet at Albert’s house and we always have a blast.



Naturally, we talk about growing up and so forth and this really is a lot of fun. Now the fact that we got together over Christmas Eve at Albert’s house and we just had a blast, I tell you. We played games, did karaoke, and all of that good stuff and really, it was just magnificent. We just, really—and, the beauty of it is, too, as we were becoming adults and essentially establishing our foundation of adulthood and life there was, to a degree, some drifting apart, and as we were achieving the different goals we realized that weren’t really doing the things that







we had been brought up to do, as far as family goes. And it seems like it hit everybody at one time and we worked to renew those bonds and to re-strengthen those family bonds. ‘Cause our mom was really the glue that facilitated all the coming together and everything and I think that when she passed away, we had to come to ourselves that we needed to continue what we knew and what we were used to doing, and that was spending time and loving each other. And so all the brothers and sisters really put forth the effort to get to re-know one another in our adult life. Because the thing is, because you’re brothers and sisters it doesn’t mean that you’re automatically just going to be close and be expressive in your love for one another and it’s just something that you have to have happen in your heart and in your spirit and want to do it. And that’s what we did. We just came together and just did that.

	W:	That’s wonderful. What kind of chores did you have when you grew up? That’s a big family, so I’m sure work got split up a little bit, what kind of stuff did you all do?

	H:	Everybody had things to do, chores to do. You know, you go to school you come back home, and you had to wash the dishes, clean the house, make up your bed and all of that, get your homework. On weekends it was cutting the yard and that kind of thing. My father actually was a chef cook on the Atlantic Coastline Railroad so a lot of the raising to a degree fell on the shoulders of my mom because my dad would be gone a whole lot. Sometimes he would have a three day layover then he’s back on the train. His route was Miami to New York and during the summers we would ride with him on the train. One time he would take







the boys and another time he’d take the girls, that’s how we did it. Or sometimes when they would during the summer change his route, for instance, he would go to the West Coast. Sometimes his route would change where he would have to go back and forth to St. Petersburg, and he would take us there with him on the train. And our family, though, was a family that, number one was very active, number two our mom encouraged us to participate in different things. Our mom actually played piano and so some of the kids got their musical talent from her, ‘cause I sang and played drums. My sister sings and my brother Charles plays guitar as well. And having older brothers also was a big influence, just the different things that we were exposed to through them. Different records, music, that kind of thing, was just magnificent. I know for me when I began what is now junior high school, when I began Lincoln seventh, eighth, and ninth grade, Will and Albert were in college and I can remember during the summers of my eighth and ninth grade I would go up to North Carolina A&T during the summer and spend a couple or three weeks with them. So that exposed me to the college life, and I felt like I was a big boy, hanging out with the college boys. Albert was a big jazz fan. He became a jazz fan when he went off to college so when he came home and was playing his jazz records, that exposed me to jazz. To this day one my favorite artists is John Coltrane and I like Charles Lloyd and Roland Kirk, he was a jazz musician. He was able to play multiple instruments at one time. Nat and Cannonball Adderley and all of those. It was just things like that that was a blessings to have big brothers, or older brothers, I should say. You know, big brother is what we used growing up as kids, that’s my big brother and all, but







having older brothers it really was—or should I say older siblings—it just really was magnificent, the experiences that you were just exposed to. And one thing that our parents always believed in was exposing the children to different things. During the summer growing up, when we were in elementary school, this lady used to come through every summer and she would have an etiquette class at the elementary school and our mom would sign me and Janice up every summer to go to the etiquette class. And she didn’t ask us, she signed us up and sent us to the class. It’s not like now when parents will ask their kids, do they want to do something, well children don’t know what they want to do.

	W:	True.



	H:	They really don’t. She would sign us up to participate in different things. At the time, leaving the house with your mouth poked out because you don’t want to go and once you get there, you get exposed to it, then you think well this is not half bad, or when you get older and you think back on those experiences and you think about the things that you learned as well, you just realize the wisdom that they had. They used to pack us in the car, ‘cause my dad would fix lunch, ice it down in the trunk, kids would get in the car and we would just ride and stop different places. I remember the first time that I went to the Sanford Zoo, you know. Just going to the lake, they used to take us to Cowpen Lake when we were small. Just so many different experiences. And the thing is, our house was really the neighborhood house, all the kids would just come there and hang and our parents never complained, not one bit, they always made our friends feel welcome and some of the kids were really like part of the family. They could







come and walk in the door and didn’t knock or anything like that. Really, the dynamic was so amazing, and just to have parents with the open mind like that. They instilled in us the values of respect and of expectation of achievement and things like that, but they exposed us to life experiences as well. I remember an incident happened with my grandfather, Albert Higgins. He was an entrepreneur, businessman, he had three grocery stores, owned rental houses and land and that kind of thing, and I was there at the store because the store was in the bottom of the house. It was a two story house and they lived upstairs. My aunt had an apartment on the other side in the store and then there was a third apartment there and the store was in the center. But anyway I was there and my granddaddy told me to go get a couple of eggs and I guess I was about six, maybe, and I didn’t know what a couple meant, right? But my grandfather was slightly intimidating in that if you didn’t know something, you didn’t want to let him know that you didn’t know it, and so I went to get a couple of eggs but didn’t know a couple was but I figured at least if I got one, I would be too far off, right? I brought the egg back to him and he said, “I sent you for a couple of eggs, dummy, don’t know a couple mean two?” No, I didn’t but after he said that, the rest of my life I knew a couple meant two.

	W:	[Laughs] A couple equals two and three is a few.



	H:	You know and just crazy things like that, ‘cause we used to work—‘cause he was, I guess some people would call him hard, but it wasn’t so much that he was just so hard, I mean, you have to put it in context, that this was during the Jim







Crow era, segregated era, and he was there trying to grow his empire, I guess you would say.

	W:	And prospering when that would not have been popular outside of the Black community.

	H:	Right. But you know what was amazing about him, though, he talked to everybody the same way. It didn’t make a difference if you were Black, White, whatever. The way that I saw him talk to White people back then, a lesser man could have got hanged or put in jail. But he didn’t, and they totally respected him as well. So I come from a family of varied experiences, exposure, that kind of thing. That shaped me to be who I am today.

	W:	What role did church play in the person you’ve become?



	H:	Great role. The church was where we got the chance to make the speeches, develop our presence in front of people, obviously get the spiritual foundation, ‘cause it was Sunday school, church service, BTU.

	W:	True. Vacation bible school in the summer.



	H:	Yeah, and the thing is, our mom played piano for a number of the churches in Gainesville, so that meant that we had to go to church sometime when we didn’t want to, but it played a great role. As a matter of fact, some of the things that were done back then really need to be done now, especially the developing your presence to present yourself in front of people, cause saying those Easter speeches, the Christmas speeches—

	W:	—what y’all looking at me for? I didn’t come here to stay, I just came to wish you a happy Easter day. That first speech that everyone gets to do in church.







	H	Yeah.



	W:	That’s a good speech.



	H:	And the youth programs where the youth is in charge.



	W:	Being the ushers and taking up the collection and being secretary of the Sunday school. I had those same experiences and you’re right, they are missing with children today. Why do you think that is? Why have those things fallen out of favor?

	H:	I think number one, because parents are younger. Number two, you find a number of the parents really didn’t grow up in the church.

	W:	What were some of the churches your mother played for that you attended when you were growing up?

	H:	Well, we grew up in Spring Hill, that was our home church, but she played for Mt Moriah, Shady Grove.

	W:	And these are all names that if you live in Gainesville for any amount of time, you know these churches.

	H:	Right, um-hm. Basically all of ‘em. Johnson Chapel, so basically all the main traditional older churches that are around, she played for.

	W:	And you and your brothers and sisters all went? H:	Um-hm.

	W:	What do you think is the most valuable lesson that you learned from going to Sunday school and church as a child? Something that reflects and colors your life now as an adult, and a leader in this community?







	H:	Well, for me it was the confidence that I gained in being able to speak in front of people. Obviously the spiritual aspect, ‘cause I gave myself to the Lord at age eight but the revelation didn’t really come to me until I was about twenty nine, thirty and I received salvation, and that spiritual anchor has kept me grounded and provided substance in my life to help me serve others. Developing a heart for the people. So those type of things, the experiences of having compassion for people who might be less fortunate than you and having a willing heart to help people.

W:  I’ve been fortunate—we had that conversation before we started this interview— but I’ve been fortunate to watch your development in service and how grounded you are and patient in dealing with people. What is your definition of leadership?

	H:	To have the courage to step out and dare to be different when pressure is on you to be like everybody else. To be able to present solutions to problems that might seem to be more complex than imagined. To be willing to admit that you don’t have all the answers and listen to others, give others your full attention, to listen to them and if their response is a better response, if their solution is a better solution, to not allow pride to come forth that you’re not willing to join in and support that action.

	W:	Sounds like a lot of proverbs in Job. H:	Yeah.

	W:	Who was your favorite teacher when you were in school?



	H:	That’s a good question. In eighth grade, Zenie McDowell was my favorite teacher. She was an English teacher. And I really liked it because I got a very







good understanding of the rudiments of English. So in eighth grade, she was. In ninth grade, Joyce Wells, she taught us, I want to say, math and she taught another subject too, but I remember distinctly math. In seventh grade, I would have to say Mrs. Ethel Cook was my favorite instructor. Tenth grade, I can’t say I really had a favorite teacher, that was, to me, kind of a transition year. And I say that because from seventh to ninth grade I came through those years with people that I’d come through elementary school with and in tenth grade, they changed.

Because they used to group you by academics from seventh to ninth grade. We had 7-1, 7-2, 7-3, and so the bright kids of which I was considered, were in those sections whereas in tenth grade they started doing it alphabetically, which means then I had to develop a brand new, not so much support system, but a brand new circle of people that I’d never been around. I had to get to know them and develop new relationships. So tenth grade was kind of a transition year. Eleventh grade, Ruby Washington, she was a English instructor. Oh, ninth grade, too Nathanial Bustarivers, because I took typing in ninth grade and I thoroughly enjoyed that. Funny story, I went to the counselor, ‘cause I wanted to take up tailoring in high school and this gives you an idea of how things were thought of back then, and when I went to her and requested to take tailoring, she would not allow me to take tailoring because she told me I was on track to go to college.

But in my mind, I’m thinking, “Okay, if I take tailoring, I learn how to sew, if I went off to college, I would have a talent that I possibly could use to earn me money.” And that was the way I always thought. Whenever I wanted to do something, there was always a reason behind why I wanted to do it. But she turned me down







cold and she would not enroll me in tailoring. To this day, I still want to learn how to sew and when I retire, that’s one of the things I’ma do, I’m going to take a tailoring class, so I can learn how to sew.

	W:	What role did all those people that you mentioned so vividly and with such great recall, what did they play in you becoming the person that you are now?

	H:	Well, because I was taught so well by Zenie McDowell as far as getting the fundamentals down for English: writing, speaking and so forth, that helped in the presentation, because back then, Black kids weren’t expected to use proper grammar and just understanding, helping verbs, when to use them. That was one thing, too, that was prevalent in our household, and that our mom would correct us, if we used something out of turn, she would correct us. ‘Cause my mom only had a high school education but she was a bright lady ‘cause she wanted to go to college to study music actually, but her parents wouldn’t send her. But that was one thing about Zenie McDowell that was important to me, just getting a handle on English grammar, writing. Joyce Wells, it wasn’t so much the mathematics as it was her just instilling confidence in us that we could achieve anything that we sent our minds to achieve and that we were bright, we weren’t dumb, which too was a stereotype that we had to fight back then because we would always be compared to the White kids. Because back in the day, in the [19]60s, if you were White, you were supposed to be smart. If you were Black, you weren’t supposed to be smart. And that was always so crazy to me. And when Lincoln closed and we went to the different White high schools—I went to GHS—and we actually were ahead of those students. We were actually ahead of those students. And







when James Brown said, “You take the sheet off them,” and we find all these years it’s been drilled that the White kids were supposed to be so smarter than us, and we get over to the “White school” and we find that we’ve been bamboozled and hoodwinked. Just think about it, they’re teaching from the seventh edition and we’ve got the third and fourth edition.

	W:	Maybe.



	H:	Yeah.



W:  But you also had to memorize your lessons and stand up and recite on demand and your neighbors and the teachers—anybody could call up on you at any time to come correct on your lesson, your behavior, anything.

	H:	Yeah, but the thing, too, it really was a credit to the teachers as to how good they were in teaching. And then that was a thing, too. So that was just really across the board that number one, they instilled in us a confidence of achievement and can-do-ism, helped us develop a great self-image of ourselves and that’s what Lincoln was all about, really.

W:  You know the graduates, alumni and supporters of Lincoln truly exemplify their love and concern for that school. Why do you think after all these years there’s still that desire to bring Lincoln back? It’s almost like Lincoln never went away.

H:   Yeah.



W:   Why do you think that’s still there?



H:  Well it’s still there because there was a genuine loyalty that was fostered among the students. Because you have to realize, we started Lincoln in seventh grade. Lincoln was a seventh through twelfth high school. So you start in seventh grade







and you are made to learn the alma mater, you had to learn the alma mater in seventh grade, you didn’t have a choice in the matter. Number two, Lincoln was like a second home. Number three, a number of kids would rather be at Lincoln than be home because the conditions and atmosphere at Lincoln were better than some of their conditions at home. But also, too, you see cousins, brothers, sisters, nieces, nephews, aunts, uncles graduate from Lincoln and in the [19]60s it was instilled in us that education was your way to a better life. And you were always told to get your education, to graduate from high school. If you graduated from college, bump college, if you just graduated from high school, that put you in a position to live a better life than your parents. So education, it wasn’t necessarily just the parents. Anywhere you went, you had people saying to you, “Son or daughter, or young lady, young man, get your education.” You constantly heard that. “Get your education.” And then Lincoln did different things to make being part of that school special. Graduation was really just the icing on the cake. But they did so much leading up to graduation. You know you had class night, where you were presented with your class ring, you would do the class play, you had the coronation ball during home coming, you had the Terrier’s Bark, you had baccalaureate, and then you would have graduation and then after graduation you would go on the class trip. So if you were in seventh, eighth, ninth grade and you see the senior class being honored like that, that then instills in you that desire that one day, I’m going to be up on that stage, I’m going to walk across that stage, getting my high school ring or participating in the class night activities,







coming to baccalaureate, getting my diploma, going on the class trip. You always had something to reach for.

	W:	What was the Terrier’s Bark? What was that ceremony?



	H:	That was just the homecoming talent show. Yeah. In ninth grade, my brother, my sister, and I formed this band called the Uptights. It was the three of us, two of my brother’s classmates, one of his classmate’s friends, and a fellow that we happened to know through somebody else. So we formed a band to be on the Terrier’s Bark and we took top honors as well. Our breakout song was I’m Losing You by the Temptations. And after we played that night, we got requests to play gigs all over town and did some of the school dances. Used to play at some of the jukes around—Tim’s Place in Newberry, Hawthorne GoGo Club, Waldo Country Club and Maddie’s down in Port Orange, and all those places. We were in school now. I’m in ninth grade, Janice in eighth grade, Charles and his friends were seniors somewhere in eleventh grade, the bass player Leonard Perry, he’s the assistant director of choices.

	W:	They let y’all play the jukes.



	H:	Yeah, they sure did. You know back then, they didn’t really--for bands--they didn’t check ID and all of that.

	W:	If you could play, that was good enough.



	H:	Yeah, yeah. And we did. We turned the show out and won first prize and that was nice, being able to do something that we loved and get paid for it as well. So yeah, it was great. But it was just different things like that, experiences. We had our first musical that we put on at Lincoln when I was—was I in eleventh grade or







senior?—I think I was in eleventh grade. We did Bye Bye Birdie. That was the first time Lincoln had ever done a musical. The first time all those years. And that was nice experience. We actually recorded an album, I have that album now.

	W:	Wow. That’s a great piece of musical treasure.



	H:	Yeah, I played drums on it. The reason I got asked to play drums is ‘cause I was the only one in the school that had a set.

	W:	Well, then there you go. H:	Um-hm.

	W:	Now we’ve heard you speak, you’ve talked about all this musical tradition, legacy. But I also heard you sing. How did you get involved in expressing your talent as a singer? I know you said your mother played piano. How did you end up singing?

	H:	Well, actually, I did the singing first. I didn’t really learn to play drums until I was, what, twelve years old. But we- Janice, Charles and I used to sing in elementary school. We used to sing a lot on the programs that they had and people knew-- that lived in the neighborhoods--knew that we sang and the teachers knew that we sang so when they would have programs they would ask us to perform.

	W:	Church as well?



H:   Now, Janice and I sang in the church choir but we didn’t really perform much as a group in the church. We performed secular songs as a group but Janice and I did sing in the church choir coming up. Charles wasn’t much of a church person, tell the truth.







	W:	Now could you offer a few bars of something, that’s kind of my tradition? Anyone who has a talent, signing, I do ask them to offer something, it could be anything you like, just very brief. Just to be able to have that on the recording as well.

	H:	Let’s see. I don’t know with the throat if the voice is okay. [Sings] “If this world was mine, I would place at your feet all that I own, you’ve been so good to me. If this world was mine, I’d give you the flowers, the birds and the bees. With your love beside me, that would be all I need. If this world was mine, I’d give you anything.”

	W:	[Claps].



	H:	Kinda rough, but.



	W:	No, it was sublime, I didn’t know what direction you would go in, I don’t know if you’d chose something from church or maybe something more popular. But whose song is that?

	H:	Marvin Gaye and Tammi Terrell.



	W:	And what inspired you to make that choice?



	H:	I don’t know, it’s a song I just had on my mind a while because Albert wants us to perform at a Lincoln High picnic in June and I thought that was a song Janice and I could sing together.

	W:	Okay, terrific. What’s the date for that going to be? During Juneteenth?



	H:	I think it’s the weekend after Juneteenth ‘cause, what, Father’s Day is on the 19, right? So that would probably be June 25.

	W:	Okay, terrific. We’ll look forward to that. I know that you’re very busy and we’re coming up close on an hour.







	H:	We haven’t really finished. We need to get to the meat of the closing of Lincoln and all of that, but I’ve got to go to a City Commission meeting.

	W:	Well you know, what we could do, what I do with a lot of people is the first interview is just kind of the beginning and we schedule a second one. So, in light of your time, with your great responsibilities for the city, on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program I’d like to thank you for doing this interview for our African American History Project. We appreciate you reaching out and taking the time, and it’s always my tradition to end with these thanks but also to allow you the opportunity for final privilege. So if there’s something, a thought, or you’d like to reflect on something, or any idea you have, if you’d make those comments and at the conclusion of your comments, that will conclude this session of the interview.

	H:	I’d just like to say that I think that the recording of history is very important. Those that come after us should really know what truly happened or– they should be able to put in context the times that we lived and understand experiences individuals have gone through to get to “their station” in life. Cause I like to read autobiographies. I find it quite fascinating the different obstacles individuals overcome to reach their goals and to achieve different things in their lives. So this is a good thing that you all, or that you are doing. So thank you for the invitation, as well.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Jessica Lancia, July 13, 2011







	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, November 20, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019