AAHP 013; Weston; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 013 Marna Weston

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Arnold “Little Jake” Mitchell on March 2, 2010 3 minutes | 2 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Marna Weston describes his immediate family, specifically when and where his parents met and where each of them were from, and the occupations of his two younger brothers. Then he goes on to explain his involvement at the University of Florida, where he was the second Black treasurer of the student body and the first Black president of the speech and debate team. He received bachelor’s degrees in telecommunication and history, which he used to be a public school teacher and the secretary of the Gainesville Democratic Party. He returned to school at Florida State University to pursue a masters in policy and political communication while also serving as coach of their debate team. Currently (at the time of this interview) he is pursuing a doctorate in agriculture at the University of Florida while also working with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program.



Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]













































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 013

Interviewee: Marna Weston Interviewer: Arnold “Little Jake” Mitchell Date: March 2, 2010



	W:	I can tell you a little bit about myself: I’m originally from North Carolina. My dad was in the 82nd Airborne, and he met my mom while he was in Fayetteville one day. His dad owned a little sandwich shop. This little girl from the country kind of walked in on one of her days away from living outside of town, and the magic started. And she was—I think she was sixteen at that time, so he had to court her for a while first. And then, when she was eighteen, they got married. And let’s see: the name of the place my mom’s family’s from is Autryville, North Carolina. It’s in Sampson County, North Carolina. I have two younger brothers: Mario, who is a elementary school teacher, now working to be a principal. He’s an assistant principal in Chicago, Illinois. My youngest brother, Marco, works in optometry. He still lives at home in West Palm Beach, but he graduated Cum Laude from Palm Beach Atlantic College last year. We’re really excited about that. My dad is Marvin, my mom is Margaret. I’m Marna Renaldo. My middle brother is Mario Ricky. My youngest is Marco Ridelago. So we’re all “M-A-R.” My dad was stationed in Santo Domingo, so we ended up with the names of three kids who told him about how the rebels wanted to kill an American soldier—because he was really good with the kids. So, they made it so he would be able to avoid the trap, and he promised himself “If I live, I’m going to name my three sons—” None of us were born at that time, but, “after them”.” Came to University of Florida after attending Santa Fe Community College. While here on campus, I was treasurer of the student body. I was elected the second Black treasurer of the student body in the history of the University of Florida. I was president of the debate team. So





far as we know, I’m the only Black president—or, I was the first Black president of the Speech and Debate team here. I was very successful in that element of working on campus. Got bachelor’s degrees here in telecommunication and history. Went out and taught for a while. I was a public school teacher, and also ran some political campaigns locally. I was secretary of the Democratic Party.

Finally decided that teaching was really good for the soul, but it wasn’t as good for the pocket. I needed to go back and get the advanced degrees, and so I went to Florida State University on a debate scholarship. I agreed to coach their debate team, and I got my master’s in Policy and Political Communication. Now I’m back here at the University of Florida working on a doctorate in Agriculture and also an interviewer with the Sam Proctor Program. So that is the “me” story. I lost my grandmother my first semester of my doctoral program here in 2006, and it’s really helped me form my agenda of why it’s important to talk to people and understand what happened, before and now. She would always use her wisdom to talk to me about—to be prepared from things. You know, growing up through the Depression, and—I remember her stories so well, but I didn’t have the savvy to make sure I could keep them with me. So, I keep here in here and in here, but I want other people to be able to understand that everyone has an important story to tell. And so, that’s what brought me to be speaking with you today.

	M:	That’s good, good. Good, good. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Sandra Romero, June 29, 2017





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, June 29, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 16, 2019