AAHP 562; Dennis; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 562B Wyard Dennis Interviewed by Sherry DuPree on May 1, 2018

1 hour, 39 minutes | 54 pages



Abstract: Mr. Wyard Dennis was eighty-seven at the time of this interview. He describes growing up just outside of Jonesville, Florida, not far from the towns of Newberry and Gainesville. He describes his experiences as a lifelong farmer, and his involvement in area churches, particularly Pleasant Plains United Methodist Church in Jonesville. Mr. Dennis describes his experiences in the U.S. military, serving in Europe during the Korean War. After leaving the Service, he recalls being the head cook at Hume Hall when it first opened on the University of Florida campus. Over his lifetime in addition to serving as a cook at UF, he worked at the Florida Farm Bureau, and worked at the Florida State Prison.



Mr. Dennis’s grandfather, James Dennis, was one of multiple African Americans lynched in 1916 now known as the Newberry Six. Mr. Dennis shares the story passed down within his family about what happened to his grandfather, and how it impacted the wider community. He also describes some of the racism that he dealt with during his military service, while working at the University of Florida, and even simply for driving too nice of a car after getting out of the military.



Mr. Dennis shares some history about mutual aid societies, including the Farmers Aid Mutual Benefit Association; he was still an active member at the time of this interview. He closes the interview by describing his church service and involvement in more recent years.



Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Newberry Six; Agriculture; Racism and Law Enforcement; Mutual Aid Societies; University of Florida; Military Veteran; Korean War; Farmers Aid Benefit Association]



AAHP 562

Interviewee: Wyard Dennis Interviewer: Sherry DuPree Date of Interview: May 1, 2018







SD:  Greetings. Today is the first day of the month of May, May 1, 2018. We are on the outskirts of Gainesville, Florida, in an area known as Rutledge. This was an African American community, it still is an African American community, a very large African American community, and it is a farming community. It is a community where everyone knows everyone, and when they had churches, Morning Star one and Morning Star number two. We are interviewing today Mr. Wyard Dennis, and he is going to share with us some of his personal experiences of living in the Rutledge area; information about farming, a little bit about his military, and information about the Newberry Six lynching that occurred in 1919. So, today we will start by asking you your name. Would you give me your full name?

WD:  Wyard Dennis Jr. [Break in the recording]



SD:  We are at the home of Mrs. Mildred Bargonton and her husband’s name is Aaron, and we are outside of Gainesville off Highway 39. First, would you tell us when you were born?

WD:  November 30, 1930.



	SD:	1930, wonderful. WD:	Young man.

SD:  And I’d like to know a little bit about your early family. Who were your parents, and would you name your parents and name your sisters and brothers?





WD: Well, I only had one brother. Just two boys, which is myself and my brother. And my parents, was my mother was Odell Brown Dennis. And my father was Wyard Dennis Sr., and he became minister later, so Rev. Wyard Dennis. Then I raised on the farm, ride a horse-first I’ll back up, my first pay that I made driving the mule, pulling the tobacco sled down through the field for some men for fifty cent a day [hitting object near him for emphasis] [Laughter].

	SD:	All right, and how old were you? WD:	About six or seven-

	SD:	Six or seven? WD:	At that time.

SD:  Well let’s back a little bit and get your sisters and brothers names in here.



	WD:	Well, my brother was named James Dennis, and he was born November 15, 1927. SD:	And then your sister-

WD:  No sisters. Just two boys.



SD:  Just two boys. All right, in the early family. And where did your family live?



WD:  Well at that time it was Route 1, well Route 3, 195 Gainesville, Florida. Box number 195 Gainesville, Florida. That was our-off the mill hopper road. The mill man went around through that section.

SD:  Was this near Jonesville by any chance?



WD:  Well, the road went on around and came into Jonesville. [Laughter]





SD:  So, you were a suburb of Gainesville?



WD: Right. And I was born right down here from Buchholz High School-I meant from the boy’s club on 51st Street. They said a house used to be in that field, and that’s where I was born out there, 1930-

SD:  Well, we know where that is. Tell us about a little bit about your father and mother.



WD: Well, my mother they raised on the farm. My daddy did farm work that was mostly- well in his later years he worked for the city, but my mother she worked for the laundering; the Gainesville Laundry long time ago when I was a little boy, about ten, nine or ten years old [Laughter]. And finally, we got farm up there and then moved to the farm, and then my daddy had became a minister, so he did farm work and ministry.

		SD:	And he worked in Gainesville? WD:		Yes, for the City of Gainesville. SD:	How large was the farm?

WD:  132 acres.



	SD:	132-that was a large farm. And so, what did he plant on this farm? WD:	Corn, peanuts, watermelons, and tobacco…and cucumbers.

	SD:	Oh boy, y’all had a little bit of everything out there in the [Inaudible] [Laughter] WD:	[Laughter] Used to grow some of every [hits object] thing.

SD:  So, then where did your father pastor? Did he pastor a church?





WD: Yes, he pastored Second Morning Star Missionary Baptist Church, where I’m a member of now at. On NW 51st Street, and then he pastored in Mount Zura in Newberry, Florida.

	SD:	Mount Zuri?



	WD:	Yes ma’am, Zura. I think that’s what they call it, Mount Zura. SD:	In Newberry?

	WD:	Yes, then he transferred. His last church he pastored was Philadelphia Baptist Church in Lawtey, Florida.

	SD:	In Lawtey, Florida? Okay. And Lawtey, Florida is not in Alachua County. WD:	No, that’s on the other side of Starke.

	SD:	And Lawtey is in what county? That would be in-that’s okay- WD:	Bradford County.

	SD:	That’s in Bradford County, well that wasn’t too far. So, he pastored three churches during his lifetime?

	WD:	Yes ma’am.



	SD:	And they were Baptist churches? WD:	Yes ma’am, all Baptist.

	SD:	Now we want to talk a little bit about you, and your relationship to the area. You would tell me a little but about your early life, that you were driving this sled in





[Laughter] [Inaudible] early age. So, when did you start on the farm? When did you start-

WD: I raised up on it all my life, from plowing a mule, a horse, then later Daddy was able to get a tractor. And with tractor work, and start, you know increasing everything. And we used to call shake peanuts, used to dig peanuts- well it had a machine, but a small farmer you couldn’t afford machine that automatically plowed the peanuts, but you plowed them up by horse plow, and then we shake, wake them, storm through wet and roll until they dry, then we load them on the truck, and stack, build a stack, what they called a peanut stack. Like a mound, wide and this large and from this house to the pole sitting in the [Inaudible], and you get to the top you get closer and closer. So, when it rain, the water run off just like a house, getting wet that much. And then later, they had got it on peanut picker thing to come and pick the peanuts, and they used to take it to the market and sell. And plus, we growed hogs. [Break in recorder]

SD:  Mr. Dennis, we’re back with you. Let’s talk about your early days. You were telling me a little bit about working on the farm, and we were talking about the peanuts and stacking the peanuts, and I think that’s where we stopped. So, you tell me some other issues and situations with your early life.

WD: Well, we raised in the country, and we went through two room school out there by Mount Nebo Missionary Baptist Church. It was a two room, little school, country school, for a while. Then, we went to old A.C.T, Alachua County Training School in Alachua. But we had to walk from our house down to the road, and that was over a mile and a half. And we, at the first school bus for black people, my band





got Alachua, which was a leftover. Then later, they added more and different routes and covered up. Then, sixteen and working on the farm, I had to drop out of school at tenth grade. Then, when I become eighteen, I got a job in Gainesville, so service station. And, I worked there for a while, and got a change from there. And the draw for me with Gainesville, P.K. Yonge High School, when it was part of the University of Florida, I transferred- well I got a job at P.K. Yonge; $100 a month! [Laughter]

SD:  [Laughter] I hear ya. About what year was that when you-? [Laughter]



WD: [19]49, [19]50; one-hundred dollars per month. Okay, I worked there as a clean up man, and taking the food into the kitchen for the cooks. And, you know, when I got straightened up that stock room, I’d go wake up the cooks and learn how to cook. They drafted me in [19]51 in service-

SD:  You-The military? What branch?



WD:  Army. Went in the military the twenty-third of October-no, September. And I got out the twenty-third of October in [19]53.

SD:  So, you were there for how many years? Three?



WD: Two years. Okay, in the military I was lucky enough to be, to get in quarter master company, and Korean conflict was on at the time. And I was lucky enough, when I first was drafted- I mean, in the service, F-Company, in Pennsylvania- and me being a Florida boy, you know the cold weather up there different you know from here. The first day I hit Pennsylvania, it started snowing. [Laughter] And with my being a Florida boy, well I brought enough clothes, and young, survived. All right, then, in the army we had some medicine they called for cold, but we call it G.I. Gin.





It was a cold medicine. So, I decided one day, I said, “Well, I’ll go on sick call cause I’m from Florida, and get me a bottle of G.I. Gin, and if I feel like I’m coming up with a cold, I got something to start taking. While on sick call, I attempted to. They put me in the hospital for eight days. Which they just gave me some shots and said I had touch of rheumatic fever [Inaudible]. Here everybody freezing, and I’m melting. [Laughter] So, eight days you not with the company you started with, you behind. So, when I left the hospital, they transferred me to I-Company, and the tenth regiment.

SD:  So, you went from F to I-Company?



WD: Yes, it’s the tenth regiment. And that’s where I finished my basic training. All right, then F-Company and the eleventh regiment, they went into Korea under fire. But see God didn’t intend for me to go there. My getting this medicine and transfer to I-Company was intentional. And every company in the tenth regiment: A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, - Korea. I, Europe.

SD:  So, you went to Europe?



WD: Yes. At that time Russia was a Cold War enemy. Yeah, so we sat up there and watched the Russians. We were lucky enough to get into the Quarter Master- Company, and I became in charge of the Bath Unit and the six men that goes with that unit. And was only a PFC, a private at the time, and the state paycheck was only seventy-eight dollars in the state. Overseas, you got-they raised it to one- hundred and twelve dollars per month. [Inaudible][Laughter] But, at that time-

SD:  Well, that was a good-that’s a lot of money for that day, I guess.





WD: At that time, you know- SD:  And it was 1952?

WD: [195]1. All right, well in there, when I become in charge of this, they set the Bath Unit up to Russian border to get guys bath and thangs. I was lucky enough to have, while I’m up there, I had a cot to sleep on, not on the groud in the sleeping bagging thang, but a white cot, [Laughter] sheets, okay [Laughter]. And I was in control of that bath unit, and the truck and everything. So, about three days go, I made PFC that first week, call that little P-String. So, the third day up there for the 26th, the Major, he said they thought I was fresh out of OCS, and he said, “Dennis I want to speak to you.” So, we goes in his tent. He say, “I notice you not wearing your rank.” So, I listened, I heard him out straight. I said, “Well, sir, what I tell you, you probably wouldn’t be wearing it either, but I would like for you to sit down cause when I tell you my rank then you gonna, if you’re not sitting down, you might fall.” So, he said, ah cut,” you know, the beef. “Cut the beef and get down to business. Just Dennis- “and whatever his name was. I say, “Sir, I am a ranking PFC, Private First Class. He say, “Cut the-out. “I say, “Call the Quarter Master Company and ask them.” So, he called Quarter Master Company, got Captain Gauche, was in the [Inaudible]. He said, that truck twenty and the bath unit is yours sent up to the unit, for give showers and thangs to give guys off the Russian border. First thing, Captain Gauche thought something had went wrong. He said, “What happened? Something happen or went wrong?” He said, “No.” He said, “’What I wanna to know, this man is doing a wonderful job, this soldier. Say I wanna know what’s his rank?” So, he looks back through, give him a few minutes, “PFC, Wyard Dennis-





“no, “Dennis Wyard”, you know that go first. They had a cussing between this major there and Captain Gauche, “What in the so-and-so wrong with you all, man with disability and everything, and a PFC?” “Well I- the company over stopped his rank because the older guys were in there from, in Quarter Master and thang, trying to make their twenty years from the second World War, cause they had Sergeant of First Class walking Private of the Guard, trying to make their twenty years, they was acting [Inaudible]. So, he said, “I wouldn’t give a- this man is worth it. See tell you what, give him a transfer and he’ll be a Sergeant of First Class ‘fore he get here, just to drive truck for us with disability.” You know what they wouldn’t get me a transfer. You back then, like I told you, black people had to go along with a lot of that. I did my own maintenance on my truck every six months, and service. My truck won the division inspection. [Laughter]. All right, so about a week or two later, came up with a blown taillight bulb. You know they got the shop [Inaudible]. So, I goes over there and draw a bulb, and this old sergeant, after one of the inspections, he wanted me to come into the motor pool. And I told him like this, “I don’t wanna be no grease monkey, [Laughter] I want still my master. So, I liked to play baseball, and he was over the baseball team, so that got that little bit, I couldn’t go there. So, when he saw me putting this taillight bulb in, that was his chance, cause the people at the shop supposed to do the work; for him to get to chew me out, as we would call it. He came up there and he got on my case, calling to attention, and I happened to look like first back of the yard there, Lieutenant Harpy was passing by, a little red head fella from Texas. And I just yelled out, “Lieutenant Harpy!” He said, “Yes.” I said, “Come here, sir.” And he came up there and I told him what was





going on, I just cut it and told him. He looked at that sergeant, and Lieutenant Harpy wasn’t quite as tall as I am, and this guy was about 6’2 or 3 and weighed about 240 [Laughter]. He’s gonna run, call him to attention, and he chewed him out. He said, “I sat here and watched this soldier did his [Inaudible], did his truck [Inaudible]. His truck won the division, you in the motor pool and your men couldn’t win the- and you gone raise to him about this [Inaudible]? You go to the office.” And so, he sent him to the Company Commander. So, the guys in the shop, “Well, we sholl glad you got Lt. Harpy on him, cause-“you know he’s nasty, you know and all that. And so, he stayed over there about as long as I been here, or longer. So, after a while I saw him going cross, like in there, and they told him, say, “You go tell Dennis he got a three day pass to Paris.” [Laughter] He was gone- “Dennis!” I said “Yes, sergeant.” “They say you got to come to the office, you got a three day pass to Paris.” [Laughter] He was- he couldn’t come all the way up there. And the guys working in the shop, they were just laughing to them self cause they know how he was. Said, “We sholl glad they got him straightened out.” So, when time for me to come home, I had them to put a request on the radio, going home, song was out then, ‘Going Home’. Everybody was coming to congratulate me, and they tried to get me to re-up and stay and- but they didn’t want to give me the rank. And he told his colonel over there, the company was overstocked with rank. He said, “But the position you give the man according to what his position he’s holding and handling, regardless of how many more.” But they didn’t. See what we black people had to go along with through at that time. And so, when I came back home, I was lucky enough- cause when they drafted then, whenever you were working,





wherever you were working when you came back, they had to give you your job back, from the military. So, by the start of the P.K. Yung, they hired another fella, Matt Williams, in my position. And, at this time, there was still room enough for me to come back and still keep Matt Williams. So, I came back and I washed the dishes, pots, everything. The P.K. Yung, old P.K. Yung. In the meantime, when I get my work done, I worked with the cooks, and try to learn what I could learn from the cooks. And, if you all familiar with Gainesville, when they built the first double dorm Hume Hall, on the University of Florida- I opened that as the chef, in [19]58. But at that time it was still segregated. We had a little room there about, a little bit larger near to that wall better for the dining room. Put a colored deed in, colored water fountain, fountain with colored wrote on it [Laughter]. Bathrooms, sinks, but now we could fix the food-

SD:  And serve everybody-



WD: But we couldn’t go out and sit in the dining room. That just showed how for immigration came and what black people had to go through with. And a lot of this young ones, “I wouldn’t have put up with it.” If you was here you would have. And you did it with respect. And when you carry yourself like a man and do your work, they don’t see no color line, they respect you for your position and what you do. Decent people. Like I told them, I don’t care if you got something with gold, it’s still gone be a jack. You gone have those kind [Laughter]-

SD:  Well now let me backtrack a little bit, because you showed me a picture that was in your car of that Ford. Tell me a little bit about that story.





WD: So, I saved my money when I came out of service, some of it. And, I got this Ford, and my cousin and them made me gone on over in High Spring, talking to some girls- you know how guys go. So, Lincoln High School was the high school in Gamble and in football. And, we gone go over and pick up both- my cousin Rogers and them were going on with us- so, I rode over there, and they picked up a friend- which later I dated her sister- but, then we was coming back from High Spring-

SD:  And, what was her name? That’s okay, don’t worry about it. Let’s move on-



WD:  Noble, she’s one of the Noble girls. And she’s a friend of Rogers, my cousin Rogers and Jake Davis, and things. But, me just being with, you know, the group, we go with her. So, Pricilla was her name. So, we came through Hags-you know where Hags, Florida?

SD:  Yes, sir. I know where Hags, Florida.



WD: I say about a mile up, a bit around there, a guy passed by. [Makes sound effect] And I said, “Boy, that guy really going.” And behind him like from here to thirty- nine, he was this trooper. And at that time, they had red lights on top of the cars. So, when he got up by us, three young black people in a nice looking car, he let that guy go, he dropped back, and driving on the left hand side of the rode, looking over in the car at us. And you know, you’re riding along, laughing and talking, and I say, “Well, what he slowing down and looking over here?” He put on his red light. So, I knew he was going to ask for my driver’s license. When I got out, [Inaudible]. And in the army, they had integrated, and there were three words you were not to





use, if you did- if I called you a ‘nigger’, everybody whooped me. If two whites, one called another ‘redneck’ or ‘cracker’, everybody tore his behind up. [Laughter] So, that isolate that [Inaudible]-So I walks up there with my license, and he- you know what he asked me? “Who this car belong to?” I said, “Sir-“I say, “I’ve been married, divorced, and done spent time overseas, and I saved my money to get my car.” “Well, you don’t look old enough to have a no car like this.” I say, “Sir, you stopped me to see who own this car?” “No, I stopped you because a little nigger-“I forgot about I wasn’t in damn service. I took him cross that road, I jacked him up- I was in good shape [Inaudible] push him with one hand. Had his arm like this, and he couldn’t get to his gun or nothing, and he finally went to begging for mercy [Laughter]. See, I forgot I wasn’t in service. [Laughter]

SD:  You forgot you weren’t in the military, and those three words came up. I got you.



WD:  And when he say that, I just lit on him and [makes sound effect]. And then, I come to let go then, I had to control him [Laughter]. So, when he start asking for mercy and say, “You just follow me down to the jailhouse, the jailhouse is on South East 4th Avenue of Gainesville. Got down to the jailhouse, it was about 7:30, I would say. They wouldn’t let me pay my fine, made me sat there until after the football game, and let me pay my fine. Well, Rogers and Pricilla, they was out there in the car, they couldn’t go no place, cause-

SD:  No, they didn’t have anybody to drive them.



WD: Sit there. So, bout two or three weeks later give or take, could have been a little longer, and you, they find out where you work at and everything. A guy came down





there, a white fella, and asked one of the fellas for Wyard Dennis. So, you know how guys say, “Dennis, man wanna see you.” So, we step out the backdoor, well outside the door so I could see what he saying without- you know. He say, “You don’t know me but I know you.” I said, “No, sir. I don’t know you.” He say, “You got a bad car.” Then it hit me, I know what he was talking- “And you not scary.” Then it all hit me. I say, “Well, what’s your question sir?” “Want to know if we could get you to work for us?” See back in that time, they caught you with liquor in your car or something, they take your car. He want me to haul liquor for him. I said, “Sir, I’m sorry, but you are not gone take my car-“I say, “Because I’ve sacrificed to get what I got, and you are not going to take it. I’m sorry, but you have to find somebody else.” So, I was dating the lady picture, that’s standing by the car. She was living in Micanopy, and going to Florida Normal. Used to be 40 Move, over there. We was going to take her back to Florida, remember one Sunday afternoon. Well, they hadn’t built Shands, you just go under the railroad and the road go come on round to Archer Rd. Time I passed there, between there and I say 16th Ave., the same trooper, some guy in a car he was chasing him [makes sound effects]. And I said to my cousin cross me, I say, “That look like the old guy car that done troop him. So, he stopped the guy around there where the Wilson Rd. cross, the Jacksonville road cross, the Wilson on 13th Street there, tween there and where Bound Derby used to be. As we got up to them, he done stopped white, which was a white fella, and had him over talking to him. You know he waved me over, so I pulls over. Got out, I know he gone ask for my license- and at that time, when a trooper give you a ticket, your license had a space for him to sign, ‘I stopped Wyard Dennis-‘





whatever the charges and time, date, you know and everything. And he signs it. So, he’s looking at me. First thing cause- the white guy was standing, he say, “See your license first.” S, he opened up my license, and he saw his name, he jumped. So, my cousin was sitting in the car, my daddy was a 32nd Mason. He said, “I didn’t know you had joined the Mason, you put a Mason sign on that guy.” I said, “No.” I said, “That’s the man I jacked up and [Inaudible] [Laughter]. He say, “Ah, Dennis.”- And all of a sudden this changed now. “Now you be careful, with a nice car like this, and thing. The boys gone be watching ya. So, you be careful and gone and take your friend wherever you started and everything.” And, I guess this white fella, wanted to know what in the world went on this all of a sudden he’s different person, everything. So, I told my cousin what had happened. He said, “So, that’s the man you jacked up.” I said, “Yeah.” But, when he saw his name on those license, he jumped like you drawed a gun on him. Cause he first said, “Hadn’t I seen you some place before.” He was trying to get- [Inaudible]. I say, “Yes, sir. I’m the one you stopped over the one from Haegs.” He jumped [Laughter], when he opened that license. So, after that, working at P.K. Yung- I mean at Rawling Hall- I meant Hume Hall- Rawling Hall was in the red. But, Hume Hall, we were doing fine. Then they wanted me to transfer down to Rawling Hall to help Dyleth Bryans, which was the cook, get Rawling Hall able to handle the food without going in the red expense. So, you know they done already planned for you to go, they gone ask you like do you wanna go, but already that’s what you gone do if you want your job. Okay, so, I goes down there and [Inaudible] for two months. Before the two months was up, when the word sat out that Dennis was going back to Hume Hall, to help there [hits





object]- went to the boss, and we gone walk out if you send Dennis back to Hume Hall. Now I’m stuck there because, to keep the help. Then I got ill, for four or five months, and when the doctor said I was okay, I could go back to work and everything, I moved to the main cafeteria, which used to be the old main cafeteria at the University. And when you do things right, people see what you doing, or how you do things, they’ll come to you. So, the help start coming to me for different questions. So, I would tell them what would be done right and [Inaudible]. So, after working over there a good, bout the time the salary raised to $300 a month. Well, all of a sudden, they say, “Dennis, say they want you in the office.” So, I goes in the office, there all the little supervisors from the other units’ in. Well, at that time I had hair [Laughter]. My hair stood up, I walks in there, “Yes, sir.” “Ah, Dennis, we’ll call you in here first. Seem like you running the cafeteria.” I listened, you know how it is. And Mr. Hicks is the male supervisor, and Mrs. Jordan is the lady supervisor. Which both of these were white. “But, anything anybody wanna know, they come to you, and whatever you say or do, that’s what they doing. They disrespecting the supervisors and things, and you can’t be doing that.” Well, see back then, I was going on 14 and a half years at the University. They didn’t any labor law or anything enforce it, you can work it out then. That summer, they get back half to me, they gone lay me off for the summer. And I done been there 14 and a half years, open Hume Hall- see what we black people had to go through with. So, I was lucky enough with the housing, everybody no [Inaudible] for no job. Then, after working in housing for a while, my cousin that was working in Sperry electronics, used to be out there to the back of the airport, and the Space Center was just getting





started good. And you know they give you a background check for the Sperry, cause that was for Space Center. So, I goes out there and got a job as a janitor.

	SD:	So, you left the University?



WD:  Yes. But, I left, you know, in the right way. And so, I told them, when out there, and put in for a job as a janitor. At the University, I was working six days a week and one day off. Went to Sperry for five days a week, $11 more. All right, and two weeks, the second week at Sperry, you heard Mildred and them talking about the little juke used to be round up there? [Inaudible] shop. I used to help my uncle on the weekend. So, that Thursday Mr. Pack and Sperry called me in the office. Now, I admit this is just my second week as a janitor. I said, “Ah, they done checked and found out that I done run that shop with my uncle and all of this.” He said, “Dennis, see what I called you in the office for is, we got an opening in electronic plating, saying we got quite a few fellas, that done been here five or six years or longer, that done put in for the position. But, we checked your record”- cause there from where I started from P.K. Yung bringing the food up, and cleaning up and helping the cooks, and opened Hume Hall as the chef. Said, “Anybody learned all those recipes and opened Hume Hall as a chef, we feel like you are the best qualified man to go into plating”- cause it’s a lot like cooking, you know, recipes. X-amount of gold, silver, copper, nickel, lead- “And we feel like you the best man for that.” Say now, you’re supposed to be here six months before you become an employee, and after you become an employee, if a position is higher than what you’re in, you got to take the test. Okay, that’s what I tell people, you taking a test, or whatever you doing, do your best. He said, “If you would take the positions, then we will go





ahead and make you a regular employee.” He said bout the-, “If you accept the job and bout the test, we check your scores at the University, your night class, we’ll be wasting our time. So, if you’ll take the position, report to plating shop Monday morning before [Inaudible]. So, that Sunday night, I didn’t go to work, you know cause the guys working, Johnny clean up. So, I came walking in there about 7:30 that Monday morning. You know, some of the guys working there. First, some of the back of them say there’s biracial thang. Some of the black people, “Man, that’s a white man job.” I say, “It’s a job. Anybody else do it, I can too.” I went into plating, became the number two electronic plater. And, I say with my doing good, we wind up hiring three more black people in there. But now, if I had a failed, they probably would’ve figured-

SD:  No, they wouldn’t have had any-



WD: And then they started naming me the boss son. The boss was Grin or something Maine. And they say, “Yeah, that’s Maine son.” [Laughter].

SD:  [Laughter] named you his son?



WD: And, when you doing parts for like, for you, if you’re doing a good job, somedays everything I did in an entire day, I could place them in my shirt pocket at one time. 90 percent of us was under mic, so if you cough, you’ll blow it away [Laughter]. And the amount of silver, the amount of gold, or whatever that go on it-

SD:  Accuracy.



	WD:	Evidently it was good. The people started putting Dennis on the ticket [Laughter].





SD:  Make sure you take care of them.



WD: And when it come to the boss, he said, “Go and set the second table up against the wall.” [Laughter] and every guy is lifting them twenty and thirty pound bales and [Inaudible]. And if I cough, I’ll- [Laughter]

SD:  Blow it all away [Laughter].



	WD:	But, these are some of the things. Nine years at Sperry, it went haywire- SD:	So, you were nine years there?

	WD:	Yeah, things went haywire. First, I had 14 and a half years at the University. SD:	I got 14 and a half years at UF, and nine at Sperry.

WD: And between that, I worked the Florida Foundero. Nine years, it went haywire. When I started there, they told me, say, they hadn’t been hiring cooks and there weren’t no cooks. And the little dining room didn’t seat but 46 people. When they first built the first part of-. So, when I got there, and when you fixing good food, I would say and everything, people start eating. They done outgrowed the dining room. Then they was talking about enlarging the dining room. Instead of enlarging the dining room, they had built a nine million dollar extension onto it. Three times what the original building cost. Well, we had all the modern equipment and everything. That was better than [Inaudible]. Then, I needed a cook helper. Had one guy, they used to run him down the street, and I thought he was- guy’s going up north and coming right back. So, he came and put in for the application. So, I told him, I said, “Archin-“, I say, “Now when they get rid of they little venue, they





gone call me in. I said now you don’t know me-“I say, “Whichever they done introduced me to you, that’s who I am.”- Now when we get back out on the streets somewhere-

SD:  That’s another-



WD: He done talked and talked on about [Inaudible]. Boss called me in then, when I turned that corner, “Oh, I know him!” Oh, Lord [Hits object]. I said, “I wish I had me a water hose and could just whoop him as long as I could see.” Cause I told him, “Now, whatever on your record, you put it on your application, and I say I can defend you.” I say, cause I know some guys that have been in the institution and thangs, and they wind up being a good worker, or a good person, and everything. I said, “So, I can defend you if you got anything that’s not right on it.” But when he said that, I couldn’t say nothing. Tried to push him on up under the desk [Laughter]. So, when the boys got through, he lied on his application, nine convictions. He had been arrested nine times. But, he said he hadn’t been arrested or nothing like that. But what could I say? I couldn’t say, “Well give me a chance to-“. And then when he hollered, “I know him!” Oh, Lord.

SD:  Well, what I’d like for you to do in regards to the Farm Bureau, there was a story that you were telling me about working in the Farm Bureau, and then you were also spending time doing hay. And you worked for the Superintendent of Schools here in Alachua County-

WD:  Jim Longstreet.





SD:  Kind of tell us a little bit about that, because that would tie in with the schoolboard you worked with them- I mean well you worked for the superintendent of the schoolboard.

WD:  Well, I did have farm work on this- I always did farm work on this side on off days.



SD: And you worked the farm work while you were working at the Farm Bureau. You worked Farm Bureau during the day, and then in the evening and nights. You all would-

WD:  Where I’d get off at 2-2:30.



SD:  Yes, sir. Then you all would go to the fields and work. Tell a little bit about that.



WD: Cause one day, I was doing some- I used to do custom. What they called when you cut hay and bale for somebody else. We called it custom. And so, lady stopped me, she wanted to get a bale of hay for her pony or two. So, my brother was out by the road, and so, she asked him what was his name. And he said his name was James Dennis. So, she said, “Well our cook name is Dennis.” And he said, “That’s him on the tractor out there.” The lady said, “No, that’s not our cook.” [Laughter]. So, I came around, and as I came around I- the lady just, “Dennis, who would imagine? Who would imagine?” She was shocked. I’m out there on a tractor just like a regular farm boy, which I was and thang, and like I tell these people, you do a good job people- After Farm Bureau went haywire, 32 years working and looking for a job. But these young black people they don’t understand that. Like I told them, they say, “Well, you got it made now.” I said, “Down through the years, God blessed me.” I say, “I remember when I had two trucks, two tractors, all the hay equipment,





all the equipment plant 2 or 300 acres of corn and thangs.” I say, “God has blessed- he blessed me.” And I had fellas working for me in the evening, when I get off from 2:30 Farm Bureau, they ready to go in the field. So this is the funny part. Here come a white fella, pulled over there by the fence- and I thought it was somebody that wanted a bale of hay for [Inaudible]. So, they wanted- him and Longstreet and them, we were supposed to go and get a hayfield up there about five acres or six acres. And this guy was supposed to been in charge. Well, they had been watching me working out there, and George Hayes used to be part of the funeral home on [Inaudible]. So, he come up to the fence and he looking down there at the truck. Well the pickup was loaded with hay and parked about a block, give or take. Well, the big truck was going to the other end, two guys, one on each side on the back, and two walking along the side. The truck moving slow and they stacking. And the fella, Brady Jones, he was like a daddy. He liked to just come out and drive the truck in the field, you know, be in the field. So, this guy looking, and he telling me what George Hayes says, come out to his field and ask for Mr. Dennis. So, he just talking. He say, “George Hayes say he gone charge ya, but he ain’t gone rip you off, and you can depend on what he say, and what he does-“ Say, “Cause he been doing my field for over ten years. Fertilizing, cutting, and baling.” Say, “When somebody wanna know how Mr. Hayes how much hay under your shed, I have to ask Wyard, ask Dennis.” By this time, the big truck- we had told him. I said, “Well Mr. Dennis and them gone come up and look at the field you want done, and depend on how heavy you want it sotted, how much green hay it would take to do it. Ah, he just looking. Ah yeah, Mr. Hayes this and Mr. Hayes that.” So, he was





talking, so he didn’t see one of the guys got in the pickup and both of the trucks were coming, cause they was both loaded. I had told him, Mr. Dennis isn’t going to come down, we gone go park the trucks under the shed, and Mr. Barne and come up there and check the field. So, then he finally ask me, truck was about far as from here to the road out there, coming, both of them going slow. “Which one of those trucks Mr. Dennis in?” [Laughter]. I said, “I’m Mr. Dennis.” He had to point like this. “You Mr. Dennis? You the one own all this equipment? You been doing Mr. Hayes fields for over ten years?” “Yes, sir.” I seen the color went over his face, like he cut a color TV off to black and white. Yeah. So, I told him we was coming up there. So, we went up to Kathy and Jim Longstreet house. He done went up there and told them, he didn’t want me to do no hay for them. So, when we went up there to Jim Longstreet and them house, Jim and Kathy, they was together at the time, that was for they separated. Mr. Longstreet say, “Mr. Dennis?” I said, “Yes, sir.” He said, “I hope you understand what I’m fixing to say. My partner, he’s the one in charge of doing the hay field. Say, but I hope you understand, he don’t want you to do the field.” He say, “I hope you understand. But me, you would be the person I want to do the field. Cause I been riding by there for 5 or 10 years alone and see how and what, everything and everything.” Said, “You’d be the one I want, but he’s in charge of it.” So, Hip had a tractor place at that time, over there on, before you get to Haegs, and he had a big farm. So, this guy called Hip to get some hay, and Hip didn’t have any hay, cause when you let it get up into that joint and then it seed better. So, Hip called George Hayes. And, he told him say, “Yes, I got a field here a block bout, you know, joint and the [Inaudible] can lay down.”





He say, “I’ll get Dennis to cut whatever you need, to go in the field.” So, he called me and say, “Meet me out there Saturday morning.” When they turned in the gate to the field, the first face this guy looked into was mine [Laughter]. He wouldn’t even get out his truck [Hits object]. That just show you how, like I tell these young black peoples, “Some people against some people, not what you do or whatever, just because of your color.” But like I told them, “You got some good black people, you got some bad black people, you got some good white people, and you got some bad white people. You got some all [Hits object], and thang. So-

SD:  Well, I think we coming pretty good now. I do want you to say a little bit about the Second Morning Star Church, because you’re a deacon there. And we want you to include a little bit of that about the church, and then after that I want to move into the Newberry Lynching.

WD:  Well, I joined the church somewhere in the [19]40’s and I’ve been a member when I was in the military, or whatever way- and kept coming on down through the years. Different little things I did in the church. Then they would ask me about getting on the deacon board, and I would refuse. So, a girl that we raised up partly together, my granddaddy married her mother. She said, “Dennis”- cause she was the Sunday school superintendent, she said, “Dennis, I want to ask you to do me a favor. [Inaudible] the favor, the church?” I said, “What’s that?” [Sneezes] Excuse me. She said, “I want you to get on the deacon board, cause we have too many ‘yes, yes’.” Whether that’s right or wrong cause if you say it, I’m going to go right along with it. So, I said, “Okay.” And she said, “There’s something else I’d like for you to do. If every morning you’re here for Sunday school, I want you to do the





prayer.” And, I said, “Okay.” So, as long the Lord let me live, I’m going to try live out those things. All right, then when- you know at Baptist churches, if you’re familiar with Baptist churches, when they decide for a position, then it goes to the body, you know they vote on-. So, when they got me to say something, I said, “Now, I want to tell you all something. First, I want to ask you all something. You all see enough in me that want me to get on the deacon board?” “Yeah!” “So, now this is what I want to say. You all put me on the deacon board, ain’t gone be no big You’s and no little I’s. The rules for the church and you, I don’t care how, whatever your position, or whatever your title, or whatever, when you step on this church ground, to me you is just another member. I said, “Now someone that joined last week and done fellowshipped in, he has much voting right as somebody done been here 40 years.” I said, “Now, it’s left up to you all, cause I’m not gone have no big You’s and little I’s.” The lady was over the dining room, and they wanted me to take over the dining room, cause I’m a retired culinary, certified food service officer. That’s something I didn’t mention-

SD: That’s right, because you did mention before you stopped in a place, and the burgers-and you showed them your license.

WD: Yes, ma’am. So- they wanted me to take over the dining room, I said no, since I got where I can come to church, cause with my job, part of the time I couldn’t be there, and then when I was retired and got with criminal justice, when they put you on that schedule, if you want that position you’re going to have to be there and thangs. So, they wanted me to take over the dining room. I said, “No, Rosa Lee is in charge of the dining room.” I said I will work with Rosa Lee. I say, “I’m not there





to take her position or nothing, you know I will just work with her. “Yeah, but you need to run the kitchen cause- so much of this ‘yes, yessing’ cause I know you-“ And if Mildred made a dish and you want some of it- when you set up the line like I told them, you set up with the largest dishes. Then five people brought green beans- then we go to the next largest dish and the next largest dish. Now, we serve everybody before we get to your dish. It’s not that we’re looking over your dish, we just done served everybody. And then they can come back, after everyone has been served, they can come back and get seconds. Cause you know when it come to food everybody- “I got a wife, let me get a plate. When everybody in line in this line is through, then you can come back-. Well they didn’t like that-they was so much throwing me out of the kitchen [Inaudible], you can hear before they got down to that, “No, we gone keep Wyard from over the kitchen.” [Laughter]. Cause our [Inaudible] had one lady, my brother sister-in-law. She was a lady minister. I have nothing against lady ministers. God called who wants. She there coming through the line, for quick take out dinner for her and her husband, cause they had some place else to go, another service. So, they come through the first, final line, I gave them the two dinners. At that time if you come around the backdoor, Rosa Lee would come around and fix you a dinner and give it to you out the backdoor. So, you know [Inaudible]. I turned around, I said, “How many husbands do you have ma’am?” [Laughter] She got teased. “Y’all keep the food, y’all can keep the food!” No, she wanted to get another- that’s what the hurt the church now. People say he or she supposed to be this, but you got to live according to your title. Not just say, “I’m a deacon. I’m a this-” Ninety-percent, of the guys that are a deacon, don’t do





the deacons job. But, I try to fulfill what the church say. And I ain’t saying it just cause of myself, but you can ask any of them. They say, you sick or something, they said when Wyard finding out, Dennis going to check on you. See, it keeps him [Inaudible] also. And see I had a friend, who used to come to Second Morning Star with me- and Mr. Duke’s, I used to grow corn for, and thangs. And we’d take each other to Bible Study, and at Second Morning Star he’d do devotion and thangs like it was- he belonged at the Hope Well Church that’s out there- and so, we visit each other church. Then God took him away, and I had been going to Hope Well with him. So, for about a year and a half, the pastor, finally expressed and said, “You know Deacon, when God took Mr. Duke’s away, we said well we gone lose Deacon Dennis-“cause you know. “See, but you been more dutiful than most of the members.” I told him, said, “You never know who God gone take away first.” And at our church when [Inaudible] time or whatever, he’d tell me, say, “Partner what all you [Inaudible] put the same in for me.” Since God let me stay a deacon, I support his church, and when time to fix food and thangs, I’ll fix a big plate- I made that chicken and rice-

SD:  [Laughter] But, I’m a switch over now, and I want to get to talk a little bit about the Newberry Lynching, and some of the family members that were involved. I know your family was tied in, somewhat, with that, and I did a study out in Jonesville, and that was some years ago on the Duntley farm. And some of the Duntley farm members said the nooses were tied at the Duntley farm that we used up there in Newberry. And I wanted you to just sort of tell me about your family members, and





their response to or activities with this lynching. And of course, it would be information that other family members have shared with you.

WD: Well, my granddaddy, he wasn’t lynched but he was shot. And, you know, malehogs, they’re like men if the females over there. And this male, he’s going to try to get them at a certain time. This male hog was in my granddaddy’s field. When they said Dennis done stole- a hog, a male in his field. No the male broke in himself to get with a female. So, this guy and some [Inaudible] came up to my grandmother and they were sitting on the porch, and with a shot gun and thangs, and told my granddaddy, James Dennis, to get “Get in the car!” So, well you ain’t got no choice- with more than one shot gun. And they drove on downside the field, the fence, and went on down the road. And after a while, my aunt said they heard a shot. And, wasn’t too long after that, the cop came back out, and they yelled this remark, “Y’all can go down there and get that dead nigga!” So, when they went down there, my granddaddy was shot in the mouth-so, I guess they figured, you stole his hog and he said no, and they wasn’t gone take that. They shot him in the mouth and killed him-

	SD:	Now who were the two men? WD:	Well, I don’t know the names-

	SD:	Now, the sheriff was one of them? WD:	No, he wasn’t with them-

	SD:	That was before him?





	WD:	It was this group-



	SD:	Okay, so this was a group, so we don’t know who the men were? WD:	No.

	SD:	How many were there?



	WD:	I think it was 4 of them in that old Model T. SD:	So, that was the first activity?

	WD:		Yes, and in the meantime, that was that Saturday evening, and Saturday night when they did that lynching, at Newberry.

	SD:	Saturday night was the lynching?



	WD:	Yes, after they had shot my granddaddy first up there in that afternoon. Then the group got together, and that’s when the rest of the lynching took place.

	SD:	So, the lynching took place that same day? So, when James Dennis was shot in the mouth, was that Friday or Saturday?

	WD:	That Saturday.



	SD:	That was Saturday? And then that same night they had a lynching up in Newberry? WD:	Right. And the pastor of Pleasant Plain United Methodist Church was Rev. Josh. SD:	Yes, Josh Baskin.

	WD:	And they also-but they killed him also. They hung him. SD:	So, he was hung up there.





WD: Yes, they say left him hanging, like you leave clothes hanging on the line, so the people could ride by and look at him. And one of the ladies was killed at the time was pregnant.

SD:  What was her name?



WD:  Now, I can’t think of her name-



SD: Now, I had a Stella Long here, and Mary Dennis also, were two ladies that were taken into custody, and then James Dennis, they said they shot him to death. That was your grandfather? And I’m going to add to that. He was shot in the mouth, and that was on August 18. And then Rev. Josh Baskin, you gave me his name. Okay, now he was the pastor of Pleasant Plain’s Church, and he was killed-hung up there. Now, the next name I have here was Andrew McHenry. Did you know of him?

WD: He was one of them that they was- the McHenry’s in Murry-talk about Murray the guy that did his shooting-

SD: Yes, okay, so we’re going to have to backtrack and talk a little bit about Murray- cause the audience doesn’t know. Let’s talk a little bit about him. Who was Murray?

WD: Herman Murray was a black guy, and he was one of them like the riflemen [Phone rings] [Inaudible] some of them didn’t know him. All they know is what happened, because when they went to raid in Newberry, he did a lot of shooting in there. And when his police Wynn got shot and killed and thangs.

SD:  They made him a sheriff?





	WD:	Yes.



	SD:	Sheriff Wynn? Who was related to the people on the Duntley farm?



WD: Yes. I would say he was related to them. And, then, when this happened, when they took the sheriff to I think Jacksonville-

	SD:	That’s right he died near Jacksonville, and they carried him by train to Jacksonville.



WD: The all this like Klu Klux Klan and this group went to get together, and we gone wipe out some niggers. But they used the word at that time, And, then Rev. Josh- well they killed my granddaddy that Saturday, that afternoon, then the three or four people. And, one of the ladies was related to- I don’t know which one of them wife it was or whatever, sister, one of the McHenry’s, whichever one of them that was pregnant. They hung her. And the white ladies was asking them, said don’t kill the lady that’s pregnant. But that group didn’t mean no difference. They still hung her along, and had those bodies hanging like clothes on the line. See you tell these people these things, [Inaudible]. Yes, it is. But then-you know where I showed you that stone-it was sitting in that space, but those guys cleaning the yard had done sat it on top of a grave there. Well, I could see them mourn, but they didn’t put it back, and thangs. And so, when all this happened, that put everybody on the edge. And Herman Murray- he was related to the Long’s, Rev. Squire Long. His daughter was named Mamie Long, cause she taught school in Laban and Santa Fe, and Old ACT until she retired, and everything. And she maintained the farm after the younger ones married and moved on and what not. And, Herman Murray would go over there, cause it was his cousin, and he was hiding out out there. And





they didn’t have blood hound dogs, and the go-trial like they do now. And somebody got wind that he was going to the Long’s house to get food or that they were supplying him with food and thangs. So, this group comes to him, Rev. Long’s place, house, and told him, when Murray come, bring him, if they don’t what they was gone do to his family and what not.

SD:  So, they was gone hurt the Long’s family if they didn’t turn in Herman Murray?



WD: See, now that didn’t give him no choice. You either do it or-and they gone take care of him now [Laughter]. So, when Murray came that night or whatever night, to get some food, Rev. Long brought the shotgun on him and said, [Inaudible], and his son carried him to jail.

SD:  So, they took him to jail to save themselves? WD:  Right, to save the family and everything like that.

SD:  And the reason they wanted him was because he had been shooting at the white folks, because of what was going on, the killing of the black people. And they wanted him? So, they put in jail where? In Gainesville or Newberry?

WD: In Gainesville. The whole jail was in Gainesville. See cause, they didn’t have nothing out there in Newberry they wanted to keep them in [Laughter].

SD:  Newberry probably didn’t have a secure place to put them. So, what happened to him? Did Herman-?

WD:  They hung him.





SD:  They hung him, yes, okay, cause he had done some things over in Archer too that we won’t talk about at this time. Somebody did a book on him, and they called him an outlaw. It was the white people that did the book. Okay, now, so Josh Baskins- was a minister, and it says he was lynched, he was returned to jail, he was seized and three prisoners, and this- so they lynched him on August 19, not the same day. Most of them got lynched on [Aug] 18th, but I had him down as Josh Baskin being lynched on the [Aug] 19th. And, then let’s see- did we talk about Stella Long?

WD:  No, Stella Long was related to some of the-



SD:  Long family members. And she had a friend with her named Mary Dennis, and they said they took those two women into custody. So, they were at the house? I guess that’s where they got them from, from the house. It seems as if when things started, they went back and rounded up of the African Americans.

WD: Anybody they felt like had something to do with what was going on, and they didn’t like them, this group, and that’s when they started calling the Klu Klux Klan. But at that time, it was just a group of outlaws. They’d all get together, and hey, fella just black and he just dead, and she just dead.

SD:  Well now, after they lynched those five did, they-they tell me it was more than five or six people lynched up there. And since these years have passed, they’ve come up with more names of people, they said that was killed up in that area. Have you heard of anything about that, of any other names? I have here Dick Johnson, have you heard of a Dick Johnson? What about him?





WD: Well, he was one of the one that was rounding up in that time, a suspect in that time.

SD:  How about John Haskin?



WD:  Baskin. Which one? Which one do you have there?



SD:  I have a John Haskin, but it could be a B instead of an H. And then I have a Gilbert Dennis. Did you know a Gilbert Dennis?

WD:  No, I didn’t know him, but he was related to-



SD: The Dennis Family. These were other names that came up in regard to the Newberry Lynching. I guess these are people- it says they were victims in the area, so seems as those Gilbert Dennis, Dick Johnson, and John- must be Baskin instead of the H, are also buried out there in the Pleasant Plain cemetery. You know, and we went out and we looked at the cemetery on the last trip. Are there other wise tales or stories that families have given about what happened in Newberry?

WD: Well most of the people, like to say they had hushed mouths, because my grandmother she never did-Julia Dennis, which was James Dennis wife- the lady that interviewed on, University Ave., can’t recall the name of the place, before you get to the school, left, leave the courthouse, going east on, and she showed a picture up on the screen of my grandmother, Julia Dennis, and that one look better than the one she had at the house [Laughter], back when she was living.

SD:  So, Julia Dennis was married to James?





	WD:	Yes.



	SD:	Okay, now also, did you all have anything to do with the female protection?



WD: No, but the lady that founded it, I think was maybe Matilda Hale, she was a farm girl, and a lady’s you know-

SD: Now, were you apart of that in any way? WD: No, that was only females.

SD:  Well, yes, but the men would help out with tilting the soil and doing the things that would help out that way.

WD: Well, we had got a club now, we could go into farmer’s aid-See back at that time, the community worked together. They had this little thing, like an organization, if you got sick, then Mildred and the other ladies would come on over to your house and do whatever needed to be done. And if the man got ill, then the males would get their horse, mules, and whatever and they would plow crop for them. So, it would be growing- like that.

	SD:	So, the men were called the Farmer’s Aid Club? WD:	Yes, ma’am.

	SD:	And how old are they? WD:	105 years old, I think.

	SD:	And, who was the president and some of the leaders of that organization? WD:	Well, the leaders that we had was Joe Duncan.





	SD:	Oh, Joseph Duncan? Okay, he’s deceased. WD:	Yeah, that’s Duncan’s brother.

	SD:	Big Duncan as they called him. They had ‘Big’ and “Little’. And the other one that’s living is the Little Duncan. Joe Duncan, so, he served as the leader?

	WD:	Yes. And John L Cooks-Julius Cooks and his son, Jonelle, and he’s retired down [Inaudible] president of the Farmer’s Aid.

	SD:	And what is his name? I have John and-



WD:  Now, Jonelle’s son was selected the president here last month. His name is Latallio Cook, L-a-t-a-l-l-i-o, I guess that’s the way you spell it.

SD: Latallio Cook? WD: Yes ma’am.

SD:  Now, are these gentlemen farmers? No, there’s no way all of them could have been farmers.

WD: No, ma’am. Ain’t no farmers now. [Laughter] All that’s in the past now. And at that time, when the organization was formed, that’s what 99% did farm work and thangs. But now, I think I’m about the last one that’s cutting any hay [Laughter].

	SD:	How long is this organization, do you think? WD:	Think bout 100-105 years old, I think.

	SD:	You said, 105 years old- WD:	It’s up in-





SD:  That range. What activities do you all do? Now, I know about helping each other, and that type-

WD:  Well, at that time, like I said, when that one got ill, we’d come over and take care of the crops, and housework, the ladies would do it, But now, we still taking the organization, and we got a scholarship thing going. We give to students that’s going to college. And we call it a scholarship thing for students that’s going to college. You have to meet the criteria, what school you’re going to attend, your grades have to be right, and what not. And they’ll nominate- if you got one or two in the area, or your church, enter them as recipient. And then when they grade them out there, if they don’t meet the criteria then-

SD:  I understand. Do they do any other activities?



WD: No, that’s the most. Then someone has an accident or misfortune, then they burn out or real sick or something, we’ll give a donation. Money from like storm coming, or tree fall on the house-

	SD:	So, you’re still doing the communities work? WD:	Yes, ma’am.

	SD:	Do you know who founded this Farmer’s Aid Club? WD:	[Laughter]

	SD:	Well, do you have any booklets or any information on the club? WD:	Well, we got the-I can’t call it right off the-





SD: Well, this is wonderful. I want to thank you so much for your time. Is there anything you would like to share with us that was not talked about, that you would like to have included?

WD:  [Sigh] There’s so much I could talk about. Personal things, but most of these young people, you try to explain something to them, and they start jumping back. “That was y’all in slavery time” or “That was old folks” so, you know-it’s not like that now, this is the [19]90’s, this is the 2000’s. No. I say, [Inaudible] like the Bible, same God back 2000, I mean 1900’s, 1800’s, that are still here. I say, rules don’t change. I say-but you got these young people, “I wouldn’t put up with this and I wouldn’t have put up with that.” Like I told the guy that used to live next door to me, “Mr. Dennis, I hear you say what y’all would’ve put up with, I wouldn’t of put up with that.” I said, “Mister”-your phone going off.

SD: [Laughter] We’re almost finished, let’s see where did we stop? We were talking about the situation for the men to take care of each other and work, and you had given me two or three names, the Farmer Aid’s Club, that’s where we stopped.

WD:  Farmer’s Aid Beneficial.



SD: Beneficial Club? And you gave me the name of Joe Duncan was the leader for a while. And you gave me John L. Cook, and then his son, Lat-, L-a-t-

WD:  Latallio.



SD: Latallio Cook is now the president. And then you gave me Julius Cook, and then Joseph Duncan. I had Joe, J-o-e Duncan. And you said the organization was about 105 years of age- So, it’s been around a long time. And then you told me about





the scholarships and donations. And that’s where we ended, is there any other information you would like to add?

	WD:	No, that’s about it.



SD:  Well, anything you would like to add, as I mentioned to you, you want included in your life history because this will be shared with people. And from time to time, they may take a portion of it and use it in a production or something. And we want you to be well-represented.

WD: Well, like I was trying to tell you, when I talk to some of the younger people, try to learn everything you can learn. Cause you never know down through the years what you might have to face. See, you can’t look at a person and tell what he or she can does, or what they’re qualified to do just by looking at them. That’s because when I told them about the burger stand [Laughter].

SD: Oh, that’s right you didn’t tell the burger story. Because you’re certified for food service.

WD:  Yes, Certified Food Service Officer. All right, we had been delivering hay up there to Mr. Thomas, up there between Alachua and High Spring, like we going up there to I-75, and cut off like you going to High Spring, on the westside over there. And with the fellas helping me load the hay, you know like I was paying them at the time, and they done made you 3 or $400, why don’t you stop by the burger stand and treat them. Well, at that time, you get burgers for like a dollar- treat them, to soda or shake, which is $2 per person. So, I said we stopped at the burger stand, and the guys made their order, so when I comes up to pay, I look at the lady sitting





there and I look at the lady making food, cause you know you gone check the grill. This lady working on the grill had her nose [Inaudible]. So, I says to the lady that’s taking the money, I thought might of just been the cashier. I said, “Ma’am, I said can I see the supervisor or someone in charge here?” With hay trash on you, and hauling hay, she look at me worried, “What you want to see her for?” I had figured at the time since I had my certified food service card [Inaudible], I didn’t pull it out. Before I say anything, I better get it right, look like one of those worried kind. I said, that lady- I put my card up there, I said I want you to take a look at this. [Hits table] I said, “Now that lady on the grill has a nose cold. Now, do I need to make a phone call or not? She looked at that card and she jumped. “Oh, no. Yes, sir.” She jumps up, of course, moves this lady off the grill, washed her hands and made the sandwiches, while I’m standing their watching. So, the boys ask me, said “Ard”, they call me Ard cause Wyard was my name- “What you do to that lady?” “You all ain’t notice that lady had a nose cold, rubbing her hand, and went back to making people’s sandwich and people food.” I said, “When I laid that card up there, ‘Do I need to make a phone call up there ma’am?’” “Oh, no sir! No, sir.” You could’ve bet that lady would’ve bet anything she had, I was just some regular ole farm boy, working in the field, covered in hay tree, unloading hay, got hay trash on your thing- Never had the slightest idea that I was a certified food service officer. Like people, you can’t-

SD: You can’t judge a book by it’s cover. I like that. I just have to ask a couple more questions. I want to go back to the Newberry just a wee bit, over the years, how





has the family responded to knowing that they were involved in the 1919 lynching of Newberry?

	WD:	You mean whites or blacks?



	SD:	I’m talking blacks right now. Your family.



WD: Well, they just like the old people say, put it under the rug. Just let it go under, sweep it back under. And like I tell a lot of the black guys, you cannot, bring back history. Now, you can explain history to the younger people so they will know what people did, and how they act of that time, but you cannot relive it, cause all it does is cause more problems. My granddaddy was killed, but I had nothing against white people. You got some good in every color, and you got some trash in every color. But you got a lot of people that just look at one side, I said no it’s not that way, cause before I retired from criminal justice, black guys they swore I could see through the walls.

SD:  Yes, and we didn’t get a little bit of that criminal justice. And that was your last job right? Say a little bit about that so we can that in. Cause I remember you mentioning criminal justice.

WD: Well after I went back- like I told, when you leave a job, leave it [Inaudible]. Cause when I used to go back to the University, visiting, you know how- “Dennis, you want to come back to work?” “No, I’m just visiting,” “Man, we want you to come back to work.” So, when the job played out I came back to the University. And I said yes, they thought I was teasing. I said no I’m for real. So, they had just started building the law building, I worked with Joe Buchanan- He had a son-





SD: His son name was Joe Al. Father’s name was Joe. He’s buried out there in Pleasant Plain.

WD: And he started, like when he talked. And, I worked with him. In other words, he was my worker, when I was first there. And before they laid me off for that summer, he was my helper. But he had been there all the time and thangs. So, like I tell these people, working there they had no idea, and when I came back to the University, they gave me a job. I opened the law building. So, two buildings I opened on the University of Florida campus. And, I told them, “I don’t expect you all to pay me the same salary as the guys that’s been here”- like Joe Buchanan and all of them that’s been there down through the years. But I do expect a decent salary. And I say, I proved myself on down through the years bring me up to the guys that’s been there all the time. So, the University was changing the name to Surf America Fun Time, and then it went to Surfamation. So, when I mentioned it them, they say, “Well, we have to check your record.” So, in the meantime, I looked in the Gainesville Sun, and they needed an employee at the Florida State Prison. Well, I said I’m sure they offer more than the University offer. So, I called them, and they said, “Yes, sir. Come on and put in an application.” So, I goes up and make out- and have to sit there a little bit before they check it out for they give you your interview date. So, they came in, it was that Thursday, so that Friday, he mentioned to me could I come in for an interview. So, when I went back for the interview, instead of giving me the interview, you know what they asked me? What day you want to start to work. It wasn’t an interview now. What day you want to start to work, so your paycheck will be-





	SD:	Consistent.



WD:  Okay. I told them, they said, “One thing Mr. Dennis, you been out of school for over forty-something years, and the criminal justice is like junior college.”- It’s similar. You got to make 75 on all of the tests, if not you’re terminated. Beause I had some of the younger guys start, and they claim they can’t be mean to the inmates and transportation wasn’t right, and all of this. So one boy out there from Newberry, Scott, worked out there for a while- and sometimes they’d let you work out there for a month until the time you start a class, you know- So, I started in November, or somewhere along there, and got out of the class. Now, I failed two of those tests, but I had a chance to take them over. The lowest I made was 82. On those tests, criminal justice now wasn’t teaching that to blacks back when we were in school. So, now you see where I was at. So, but God with you, like they say, the devil in hell can’t harm you. So, I was out there in Jonesville, and I saw Scott, and I happened to have on my work clothes, which they [Inaudible] for my work clothes. And he said, “Wyard, you work for criminal justice?” And I said, “Yes.” He say, “When did you started?” I say, “October, November something like that.” But, no, it was sometime in the first part of the year, like now. “Well, they gone let you work a while before they send you to- “they call it CTI, a place for junior college, but they had the name CTI. I say, “I’ve been out of there since November.” He jumped. You know what he said, excuse my language, “You must be a smartass old man.” I said, “Now, that’s what got me those grades.” [Laughter]. And, William and all those others, I know what happened to them, it was those grades [Laughter]. And, I finally retired. They came on to the house trying to get me to come back to work.





SD: So, was that your last job? WD: Yes, ma’am.

SD:  That was your last job.



WD: In [19]96, and how many people, like I tell them, thank God, for drawing retirement for over 20 years.

SD: So, you retired in 1996? WD: Yes, ma’am.

SD:  All right, and so, you’ve been enjoying your retirement from the State? And then you get your social security also. And you still forming and acting like you 16 [Laughter].

WD:  15 [Laughter]



SD:  I love it. I love it. [Laughter]



WD:  A lot of the old guys sit and say, “Old man, I wish I can live as old as you, but I ain’t gone-“ they say they ain’t gone live as long as me. See, they done already gave up. And when every month, we recognize birthdays at our church, so five years ago, six years ago, by me being the oldest man there, the younger guys, “Oh man, how old are you?” You know it’s a lot of younger people, cause a lot of them like 60, 65. A lot of people don’t want to tell their age. A lot of them don’t appreciate the main thing, how long God has let them stay here. But I’m proud. I said, I’m thank God for letting me stay here. The Bible say, “Three scores and ten good behavior beyond.” I say, “Four scores plus one.” “Eighty-one?!” I say, “Yes.” [Let’s





out breath] They go on like someone scored a football game or something [Laughter]. “Man, we didn’t know you were that old,” I said, “Yeah.”- See we got a club going on, you pay a dollar for your age, and the younger guys, some them had to pay $60, because-

SD:  He’s 60 years old.



WD: I said, “I think y’all need to give me a donation.” [Laughter] Notice last year, I put eighty-six, no, eighty-seven. Saying, I’m proud. I hope I can keep putting this many. And they still have me in charge of the dining room at the church. I pick up the supplies, cook the food, most of the night, like on Wednesday night we serve food after Bible Study, every Wednesday night. And I got four menus. And like I told them, I’m a set four menus, and you rotate them.

SD:  We didn’t quite finish. We don’t have much more to do. You talked about the end of what you wanted to make sure young people remembered. And I think that’s where we stopped. And then you talked about the Florida State Prison system that you didn’t have to be interviewed, and that you were out of school for forty-years. You got a test score of 75 or higher, and then I went on, what did you say about how you failed the two tests, and all of that. And then you went to Jonesville and you met one of the Scott’s, Criminal justice system which was called CTI, which is the junior college, which is equal to junior college. And you retired in 1996, from there.

WD:  From the Gainesville Work Camp.





SD: Okay, right here in Gainesville. And, you was sharing a few things about the church, and your working in the church, and I didn’t-

WD: When they put me in charge of the dining room, I agreed to serve food after Bible Study on Wednesday. And so I said, “We’re just going to get four menus, and rotate them, like one, two, three.” So like I told them, it’s gone be common thangs now. No, big time restaurant, this the church money you’re spending. I said, “I want you to know that.” I said, “Now, what we gone do, we gone start off with your raisin, baked beans, and Franks [Laughter], salad, slice of cake, and water or whatever.” And I said, “That’s for one. Number two, be chicken wangs, mashed-potato salad, green beans, and roll, and a slice of dessert.” [Inaudible] And I said, “Your third one gone be, chopped hamburger steak, choice sometime between mashed potato or rice, with gravy, and peas, and the roll, and a slice of dessert.” And I said, “The fourth one will be fried fish, a choice of white grits or cheese grits, okra and tomato, homestyle cooked, and slice of bread or two slices of bread, dessert, and if they want some water, water.” “Well, ain’t nobody gone want no green beans, no pork n’ beans.” But now, they be waiting in line to see everybody served, so they can get extra. [Laughter]

SD:  You know how we carry on. Understand, they just have to give you a hard time.



They glad to get it.



WD:  So, they were talking about cutting back on some of the church expense, and I just told them what about the food, and it was like throwing water on a [Inaudible] fire. “No!” [Laughter]. Everybody sound off.





SD:  All right [Laughter]. They know what’s good. They just like to mess with, but they ain’t gone let you stop that. They’ll never do that [Laughter]

WD: Most of the surrounding churches now know about me and the food and thangs, and how I went to one church over there with my wife, sister husband church. “You can’t come in here.” “Well, ma’am I brought a dish of food, and I just want to know where to bring it in at.” So, when I [Inaudible] pan of rice, and everyone said it was so good. I was sitting around one day and decided to put it together. When the lady finally came to who I was, the lady wanted me to help set up the pastor’s table.

SD:  Put you up front [Laughter]. Now you told me a story about the church God by Faith, that you prepared the rice for and took to one of their meetings.

WD: Well, I was dating a lady at that time Her name was Juanita Johnson, and you know some people, “My church don’t do this, our members don’t do this”- so righteous. I said, “Let me tell you something, you got just a big hellions as in any organization,” I said, “You got the biggest crooks up top, cause they using they titles and positions to do- “Oh, no we don’t do that.” So, I think the lady over this dining room was [Inaudible], so I made some food for certain occasions. So, this particular time, this lady was working at Residential Inn, that I would date. I been out there in the hayfield and decided to go by her apartment, she was living over there in [Inaudible] Garden. Right over there- “Uhm, I know you’re tired, but they want us to bring a covered dish-“for whatever they were having at their job. “And, I’d like to have some of that rice.” [Laughter] Here, it’s almost 10 o’clock at night, Winn-Dixie was open at the time, on Main all night. Goes down there, pre-cooked the supplies. When I cut the stoves off, it was going on 1 o’clock. Then the next





morning, I finished putting it together cause, she didn’t have to be to work until nine, so it would be fresh. The mother of their church, Mother Munyan passed that same day. So, when they went to her church that Tuesday night, they was asked all to bring a covered dish, for Mother Munyan funeral. She was over the district like. Lot of the others, by a face church brought other food. So, when I made this peina rice for her that Saturday morning, I goes to the field, and I goes back by her house that Saturday night. She just like a little child, just bragging- “Ellise told me, you know what Juanita?” “What?” “That peina rice your friend brought, we knew what it was. The other churches brought enough food to serve everybody, so we sat that pan back and gave you a dish, the pastor a dish”- the in crowd. I didn’t say a word. I just seen her rejoice over all that. I say, “Let me remind you of something, you said I was making that food because people was bragging on it. But like I told you at Second Morning Star, when I first presented to them and they liked it and they wanted me to make enough for the congregation. And the church reimbursed me for the expense. Then you have some of the members [Inaudible], “Oh, why they got to pay him. I’m making enough for the whole church.” I said, “I tell y’all what, as long as God bless me to serve it, I’ll have a pan of rice.” I say, “don’t have to worry about it, I’ll have a pan of rice.” So, another fella start making a pan of rice, put that into that. So, back to Juanita, I say, “If they liked the pan of food, if I’m your friend.” The lady said yeah. I said, “Why they didn’t put it on the line first?” Because it was a big steam table, full. I said, “Why they set it back and divided it?” Didn’t I tell you they were the biggest crooks. I ain’t heard nothing else from them [Laughter]. Cause [Inaudible] funeral, I don’t know if you used to know him, used





to work for a sewage man, did septic tanks, and thangs. Which his wife named Eva, she belonged to our church, and at his funeral I made a pan of rice. So, by me being up there with Rev. Young, asked him to bless the food, you know he’s at the head of the line. So, he said “C’mon Deac,” When they uncovered that pan, it was over half empty, [Laughter] So, another little thang, they had changed refrigerators last month, guess about a month ago, give or take, somebody when we served- Mrs. Thomas had made oxtails or something, brought a little square dish about this long, bout that high with the top on it, and they had filled that dish up and put it in the freezer. And evidently they got carried away and forgot about it, so by changing refrigerators that week, it was in the new refrigerator. So, I pulled it out and showed it [Laughter], and said well they won’t eat this, And I told Eva Mae, the lady that [Inaudible] and everything, I say, “So, it was good.” [Laughter]. It’s a shame. Like I told you, when it comes to food, money property, you find people coming for you.

SD:  [Inaudible] Well I want to thank you so much for your afternoon. We have taken your whole afternoon, but it has been well worth every moment of it. I want to thank you, I want to thank you for your time and for your stories, and for your information that you shared, It’s so much that we don’t have, so we can share that with other people and probably see you in a classroom, one or two times on the video [Laughter]. We don’t know yet, we don’t know. It depends on what folks need, and especially covering the farm area and things you have done and telling us more about the Newberry Lynching’s. That’s a very important thing to us that we want to keep remembrance of. And the carious jobs that you’ve had at the University of





Florida, that is most important. When you were at certain buildings and what you did at those buildings and how you moved from one job to another job over the years, covering even the public schools. You know, with the working, and we really respect that and I think it had a wide range of coverage for many people in the future, and we just love to get African American men. Plus military, I can’t leave that out. That’s another aspect that you covered and we appreciate it. So, we want to thank you for your time. It’s a little after 3;30 [p.m.]. About a quarter till 4. And the date is May 1 [2018], and today is a Tuesday, Am I right?

WD:  Yes ma’am.



	SD:	The day is Tuesday of 2018. And we are in Rutledge, Florida, which is a suburb of Gainesville, Florida, at the home of Mrs. Brockington, Thank you so much.

WD:  Yes, ma’am.

















[End of interview]









Transcribed by: Mya Leland, June 10, 2019 Audio-edited by:

Final edit by: