AAHP 142; McCloud; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 142 Madeline Gervine McCloud African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Andre Everette on September 4, 2010 25 minutes | 11 pages



Abstract: This interview was conducted at the 2010 Black Alumni Weekend at the University of Florida. Madeline Gervine McCloud grew up in Albany, Georgia, and relates some of her family’s history from the area. She describes herself as a third- generation social worker. She then describes the path that led her to attend the University of Georgia. She was present at Black Alumni Weekend because her husband, Joe McCloud, was attending the event. She talks about how she approaches her work as a social worker, and why she enjoys it.



[Keywords: African American History; University of Georgia]























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 142

Interviewee: Madeline Gervine McCloud Interviewer: Andre Everette

Date: September 4, 2010



E:  My name is Andre Everette, and today is September 4. I’m at the Hilton Center during Black Alumni week, and I’m sitting with Madeline McCloud. How are you doing?

M:  Good morning, I’m doing well. Enjoying the activities and everything so far has been beautiful.

	E:	That’s great. Before we begin, I’d like to tell you we just want to talk about your experiences at school and your life here in Gainesville. If there is anything I ask that you don’t feel comfortable answering, just let me know. It’s not a problem. First for the record could you state your name and spell it for me please.

	M:	Madeline Gervin McCloud. M-A-D-E-L-I-N-E, G-E-R-V-I-N, M-C-C-L-O-U-D.



	E:	What is your date of birth and where were you born?



	M:	I was born in Albany, Georgia, and my date of birth is February 14, 1943. E:	Could you tell me a little bit about your family life?

	M:	Yes, I was raised by my grandmother and my great-grandmother. I’m very proud of that even though I missed my parents growing up. I’m a third generation social worker. My great-grandmother had a large farm outside of the city in Albany. She had about 19 acres. My grandmother built her home on one side and my uncle built his house on the other side. As I was growing up I had three houses to run back and forth and get a lot of love. We still keep it going. In 1994 I researched and wrote a book of my genealogy. I researched seven generations and was able to pass that out, a sixty-page book to all my relatives who came to the reunion that year. Growing up was just a wonderful childhood. I didn’t realize it at





the time. Being out from the city, and could run wild. My great-grandparents, they would build play houses and swings on the trees with rubber tires. My great- grandmother would make special cookies with either raisins or coconut. My grandmother next door, she made excellent banana puddings. Everybody gave us loads of attention because my mom had been an only child. After my father was murdered, she just kind of went her own way and she wasn’t able to take care of us. I think she may have had some kind of break down. For years she drank. I became a social worker like my great-grandmother and my grandmother. After I was grown and married, I went and found my mother. I put her in treatment and she lived nineteen more years and helped raise all of her grandchildren. She was just a wonderful grandmother.

	E:	Did you have any siblings?



	M:	Yes, I had five siblings. My sister next to me is an engineer, she lives in Atlanta. My sister next to her is a college professor at Albany State University. Both of my brothers are deceased. One had been a recruiter for the military for twenty-six years. The other one was a glazer. He put in that green glass at the Florida University stadium.

	E:	Tell me a little bit about school.



	M:	School was just a great portion of our lives. We had relatives who were teachers.



They made certain that we studied and that we got our lessons. Our great- grandparents and grandparents, their whole thing was school. I used to play school with other children. My family had a theme of education. It goes all the way back to my great-grand mom’s dad who lived in Gadsden County here in





Florida. They thought the seat of education for Blacks back then was in Pennsylvania. He would go by covered wagon and get a teacher to come live in his home to teach his fourteen children. There was no public education for Blacks at that time. When that teacher got married and left or moved away, he would make that long journey back and bring another one. My great-grandmother and all those were very well-educated in Greek and Latin. She became a seamstress and just did really well. My grandmother worked for the Board of Education. Each one of them did things in social work that led me to where I am. My grandmother said it was her Christian duty to take care of the sick and shut-in. She would go to all the people homes in her neighborhood. She couldn’t drive, she’d walk. She could walk really fast. She would go to their homes, and this was before Medicaid and Medicare. She would go to their homes and bathe them, wash their bed linens, feed them. If they didn’t have food she would cook her food and take her food. She knew what families needed food. She would take me along with her since I was nine up until I was sixteen. My job was to read the Bible to them, sing to them, and most of them was illiterate, so I would write letters to their relatives or read letters that they had just gotten back since our last visit. My grandmother, she took in battered women or girls who had gotten pregnant and their families would put them out. So they were my role models in terms of becoming a social worker. I went to the University of Georgia and got a Master’s in Medical Social Work. I graduated from there in 1976. I also went to Mercer University in Macon and got a post-graduate certification in Family Therapy. Since I’ve been here in Florida, I went to the University of South Florida and became an arbitrator and a





family mediator. I have done court cases for the judges in the Eighth Judicial Circuit. I helped families who had children that have been abused or neglected. To make sure that they are in shelter care, make sure they’re in relative care, and make sure that they are safe. I’ve also worked with their parents to make sure they got drug treatment, alcohol treatment. Or that they abide by a court memorandum saying what they could do to get their children back. Right now I’m working with Haven Hospice as a social worker. I’m doing end of life care. I help families get through losing their loved ones. I counsel the person who’s dying. I do the bereavement therapy with their relatives once they’ve passed. I just help them make a smooth transition with their lives until they move on to the next stage, which is death.

	E:	Let’s talk a little bit about your experiences with college. Did you always plan to go to college?

	M:	Yes, always.



	E:	What schools were you looking at?



	M:	I looked at the University of Florida, and I looked at the University of Georgia, and I looked at Florida State University because I wanted social work. At the time the University of Florida did not have a social work program. They still don’t.

They have something called a community service program, but they don’t have social work per se. I chose the University of Georgia because it was closer to home.

	E:	Where were most of your friends thinking about going? What was the top school?





	M:	Back then the top schools were the University of Florida and the University of Georgia. They were just opening up to Black students. Back then an individual didn’t just decide where they were going to college. Their teachers, their church, and their parents all got together and they made certain that the students that they recommended to the universities that was just opening up to Blacks and just integrating, they wanted to make sure they picked the most successful people in the community graduating from high school to go to those schools. Whereas I wanted to go to Spelman, my minister, all my teachers, and my family got together and said we need more students to take advantage of the integration at either the University of Florida or the University of Georgia. So Georgia was closer to home, and I chose Georgia.

	E:	How did you feel about that, about attending the University of Georgia? What were some things you had heard about the school?

	M:	Very racist. Originally it had been set up as a college for upper-class White males. Then it had eventually integrated to include White women. In the [19]60s due to court action and all of the action with Hamilton Holmes and Charlayne Hunter, they had to open it up to all Blacks. They were the test case. Then I was number six. It was very, very difficult at first. I went there with a big attitude and a chip on my shoulder. I was like I’m going to show them. I studied around the clock. I used to go to my Ego Psychology class and I was the only Black student in that class. Every time the instructor would ask a question, I put my hand up.

The instructor, Dr. Palensky, he’s written many books on Ego Psychology, he’s very famous. He felt like, okay, sooner or later I’m going to be able to embarrass





her because she’s not going to be able to answer the question. He would call on me every time. Sometimes nobody would answer any questions but me. And he never got to the point where—I wore him down—where he would ask me a question and I would fail. I would make A’s on all of my tests. The way that the chip left my shoulders, I was getting up at five o’clock catching the bus, like the Trailway bus riding six to eight miles. It stopped in every little place. At eight o’clock I would be sitting in my class. Finally my classmates noticed that and they came to me one day and said, “Madeline, come ride with us. It’s four of us and you could be a fifth person and the ride from Atlanta to Athens with us every day.” They said, “We can’t come over to the Black area of town but if you could meet us at the dividing line, we can pick you up and we’d drop you back off there. You wouldn’t have to leave so early and you wouldn’t have to ride the bus alone.” They were so nice, but my grandmother had taught me take a lemon and make lemonade. I always kept that in my person as a theme. They would pick my brain all the way to school. Instead of making that a deficit, saying, “Oh God I’m not going to ride with them I’m sick of them asking me all these questions.” Guess what I would say? “Great I’m having a practice session ‘cause when I get to class I’m going to answer all of the questions.” After I graduated from there I never had to apply for a job. My classmates would remember me and whenever research projects came up, anything came up, they would say, “You remember that tall Black girl who was in our class, she can do that job.” As long as I lived in Georgia, and I just moved here twenty-five years ago and I’ve been doing social work thirty-four years or more, I’ve never applied for a job. Also when I got ready





to buy homes, I got ready to buy cars, I would bump into my White classmates. They’d be presidents of the bank, vice-presidents of the bank and they would say, “Oh that’s Madeline let her have it.” Oh my God it just made my life so easy. I became so rich. Not in money, but in spirit from those relationships. I still have great relationships with loads of my White classmates. That’s how I eventually lost the chip that I had on my shoulder.

	E:	What types of activities or organizations were you involved in on campus? M:	I helped to set up—the first White university I went to was Georgia State

University in Atlanta, Georgia. I was the charter line with Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority. I helped to set that up. I was one of the nineteen online students to help set that up. I also went to work with juvenile crime because I did one of my practice sessions with the Georgia State Crime Commission. One of my White classmates was a commissioner of that. It was very easy doing my practicum with that.

	E:	When did you move to Gainesville?



	M:	I was married to the Tax Assessor in Atlanta. He taxed all the homes and businesses there. He was a Morehouse grad and a Georgetown University land- use lawyer. When we divorced, I had an elderly aunt that lived here that didn’t have children and she was ill. So I said while I was grieving to get past that relationship I came down to take care of her and never went back to stay.

Everybody kept saying you’ll never be able to live in Gainesville from Atlanta. I really love it. I enjoy the community. I’m involved in the Red Hatters. It’s seventy- one Red Hat sisters. We do all kinds of fun things together, travel, do a lot of





stuff. I also have ninety AKA Graduate sisters. One of my sisters is on the program today, Flora Bridgewater.

	E:	University of Georgia graduate, what are you doing at UF’s Black Alumni weekend?

	M:	My husband is one of the original Black students who integrated and came here in 1969. He graduated from here as well as he was an exchange student in Holland and got a dual degree from the University of Utrecht in Holland. He’s just an extraordinary person. He helped to set up the Institute of Black Culture and just did quite a lot. He still comes back every year to talk to new and incoming Black students on how it was, so that they can look at the past and the present and know where they came from and then they decide where they’re going. His name is Joseph Edward McCloud.

	E:	From your conversations, what do you take from his experiences at UF? M:	The school did so much for him. He was from a little small place in Florida,

Palmetto, Florida or something. I’ve been there. It’s just one little flashing yellow light. And a very rural place. It made him a worldwide, you know, a very complex man. He is over worker’s compensation for the state of Florida in all of Gainesville, Alachua County, and Palatka. He used to be from Palmetto to Inverness, but now he’s just doing Gainesville and Palmetto. He gets workers who are hurt on the job, jobs skills training, and back to work again. He’s been doing that twenty-seven years for the state of Florida.

	E:	I know that he’s very involved with the undergraduate chapter at UF.





	M:	Very, Graduate as well. He is a Omega Psi Phi. He brought that fraternity here. He went to the university, at Howard University and met with the Omega Psi Phi chapter there and learned what you needed to do to set up a chapter. And then he came back and helped to set up the original chapter. He is one of the original Omega men on the University of Florida’s campus.

E:  Let’s go back to your experiences a little bit. You said that you helped to charter your chapter up at your school. How was that received by the White students on campus?

M:  At first, things on each of my campuses were very difficult. There were days we were spit on. I had been in the movement and been with Dr. King. I knew Dr.

King. His wife was one of my sorority sisters. As a high school student I had traveled around with Dr. King. I was a year late getting into college because I was traveling with him integrating bus stations, restaurants. I had learned not to react to hostilities. I had learned to just give kindness and love no matter what. I tried to adapt his principles. I was incarcerated and locked up with Dr. King when he was locked up in Albany. I was just a senior in high school at the time. I had been admitted to college but I hadn’t gone yet. I think that his principles helped me to make it through college and have permeated my life. Even on my jobs I just don’t react. I might know it, but I don’t react to racism.

	E:	Specifically, I guess in a Greek context, you all had your events and things going on. How was that received by the White students? Did they pay attention to it?

Did they ignore you all? Was it all one council? How did things operate?





	M:	They really ignored it for a while and then they saw how strong we were getting. They then started to come out when we’d do our dances. They would see us in our colors, they became very curious. They always liked to see Blacks dance and perform. We would sometimes just take over the campus doing our thing, doing our steps. They came to appreciate it. It was something we had to work on.

	E:	What advice would you give to students today?



	M:	I would tell them to look at some of our leaders, not just Dr. King, but some of our leaders. Embrace a principle. If you can embrace principle nothing can affect you. Then set your goals and go for it. I have two daughters. One of my daughters is a licensed speech pathologist. My other daughter she got her Master’s in Public Relations and Broadcast Journalism. She was in the Olympics in Atlanta and broadcasted the winnings and losings of five foreign countries back to their countries. Now she’s in law school at Loyola University getting her law degree in health. All I’ve told them: develop goals, don’t be swayed from them. But you underlining all that, you got to have some principle, a theme or something that—I call it a mantra. It’s so funny I have been on jobs or in school with racist instructors or racist bosses. When they would say come to my office, I could pick up in their voice and their inflection that this is not going to be a good meeting. I would just go into my mantra and say thank God you made me tall. I wouldn’t be saying that out loud. I would be just harmonizing it inside of myself.

By the time I got there I would just sit and cross my legs, look directly into their eye to see what the problem was, whether or not it could be solved. Or if it couldn’t be solved then I would make another arrangement. I would always say





to myself that these are little speed bumps when you bump into negativisms. Every time it sends you around a different path that you are happy in the end. I said oh my God if that hadn’t happened, this would not have happened.

	E:	Those are all of the questions that I have for you today. It was truly a pleasure to talk with you and get your experience.

	M:	Thank you. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Andre Everette, April 29, 2013



	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, November 1, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019