AAHP 762; Horne; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 762 Adlancy Horne



Interviewed by Adolfho Romero on February 20, 2020 21 Pages

Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; racial discrimination; education]



AAHP 762

Interviewee: Adlancy Horne Interviewer: Adolfho Romero Date: February 20, 2020



	R:	Okay. My name is Adolfho Romero. Today is February 20, 2020. I’m from the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Today’s event is the African American Studies fiftieth anniversary and symposium at the University of Florida at Gainesville. And today, I have the pleasure to be with?

	H:	Adlancy Horne.



	R:	All right, Adlancy. To begin with, can you tell me a little bit about yourself, introducing yourself maybe your age, where you were born and where you are from?

	H:	Yeah. My name is Adlancy Horne. I’m born in Miami, Florida, February 16, 1951.



I came to University of Florida 1975 as a transfer student from my Miami Dade Community College, graduated in 1977, College of Business Administration; Bachelor of Science in Business Administration with a concentration in economics, graduated in 1983, department of Business Administration, Masters of Art in Business Administration with specialization in management and administrative sciences.

	R:	Impressive. Quite impressive. H:	Thank you.

	R:	What is the relationship with African Studies in the program with the University?



What is your relationship with that program?



H:  Well, I was never in the African American program. I wasn’t interested in African American program. However, my wife is part of the African American program. I met her here as a student in [19]79. But my real relationship had to do with Dr.





Foreman. In 1977/78, I was vice-president of the Black Graduate Students Union. 1978/79, I was the president of the Black Graduate Students Union. And during that period, to start out, I needed a faculty advisor so I went looking for a – especially, I wanted a male because I was the president, I wanted someone I was going to be working with and I went to IFAS I [Inaudible 02:15] Dr. Davids [Inaudible 02:17] since I was economics student but he didn’t want nothing to do with that. He done served his time.

	R:	Okay.



	H:	So, I met Dr. Foreman and he was in folklore. And he said he would come and visit. So, he came over to the Institute of Black Culture Centre when we had our meeting. And he sat there and he watched me conduct the meeting. After the meeting, he agreed to then be our faculty advisor. So, during that year, we formed a committee and rewrote the charter of the Black Graduate Students’ Union and created the Black Graduate Students’ Organization.

	R:	Can you tell me a little bit about the organization and what it entailed?



	H:	Yeah. The Black Graduate Students’ Union was created by, I don’t know who. It was controlled by the university at the time. The president of the Black Graduate Students’ Union was also the head of the Institute of Black Culture and they all worked for the university. At that time, we had a problem. As president, I recognized that the university was churning. Churning is the process of bringing in African American students who were on the quarter system. At the end of the first quarter, you end up on probation, and the second quarter, you don’t get out of probation and you usually leave. If you’re hot-headed, you stay that third





quarter and then you’re out the door. So, that’s basically what the university, so we, you know— they had nice numbers in terms of the number of African Americans who were students but the number of who were graduating was dismal. So, the whole purpose, and I think if you go pull the constitution, you will see that the purpose of the Black Graduate Students’ Organization was two-fold. One, was to change the name from a union to an organization, change the negative stigma related to, you know. And besides, we were gonna be Black professionals so therefore, we needed an organization. So, that was my number one thing. Number two was this idea of community. Most of the Black students, graduate students who were coming to the University of Florida were not graduating. And the reason they weren’t graduating wasn’t because they weren’t capable of doing the work, the reason they weren’t graduating was because they were alone. There was no sense of community. So, using the Black Graduate Students’ Union, we started doing parties. We will throw a party at each quarter. So, the first one was homecoming. So, homecoming 1977— And so we started doing the parties so it would be after Gator Growl but the thing was, I was young.

	R:	Of course.



	H:	And so, I didn’t realize I was frightening— the people who were there with me, well also some of the people who were working for the university. So, they were always working against me [Inaudible 05:38]. You know, people don’t understand that part. I heard some of that out there. But anyway, so Dr. Foreman then was my faculty advisor, that’s how I got into the African American program, I mean, my relationship with him. But then, because I was fighting, I was having a war





with the university, but my department, there was a war going on. Well, I won’t even get into that. [Laughter]

	R:	I would love to. If you could please, if you have time, we could do as much as you want.

	H:	Well, basically when I went to graduate school, I was African American, I was poor but I was blessed. Ms. Dorothy Ray— I worked at the Bureau of Economics and Business Research. They paid my way through graduate school, through school working as a student assistant and then graduate assistant for the Bureau of Economics and Business Research. They took care of me. I grew up there.

They wrote my thesis. They helped me write my thesis. They did all the stuff. So, I’ve had good relationships with people at the university because I wouldn’t have survived without those relationships. That’s how I graduated because of the personal relationships I developed. They were Black, White, green and purple.

And at the bureau, I was probably the first African American male to work there as a student assistant. We worked on the Florida statistical abstract. So, if you go back and look, I started in [19]75 so [19]76 through [19]81 or [19]82, you will see my name on the Florida statistical abstract.

	R:	That was a big thing for back then too.



	H:	Oh, yeah. They’ve moved it downtown, the Bureau of Economics and Business Research. It was at Maguly Hall. So, this whole construct of struggle and activism had more to do with this choice of being an African American male and deciding that the organization that I would put my time and effort in would be the





Black Students’ Union as an undergraduate and the Black Graduate Students’ as— That’s it, nothing else, no fraternities, no social, no other organizations.

	R:	Was the IBC already at that time active?



	H:	Oh, yeah. It was there. The Institute of Black Culture was there.



	R:	Did that help you guys kinda find solidarity between each other; the members of it or collectively was it more of a hangout spot?

	H:	Oh, that was it. It wasn’t hangout spot. It was everything. You see, when I came [19]75, the Institute of Black Culture was already there. In fact, I remember having a meeting there one day and one was the [laughter] some BSU boys brought a blue [Inaudible 08:46] and offered me a Florida Blue Key if I would do a project for the elderly in the community, you know, me and the Black Graduate Students’ Organization. I had to explain to –it wasn’t even the Black Graduate Students’ Organization at that time, it was still the Black Graduate Students’ Union. But they wanted us to do this project and they would give me a Florida Blue Key.

	R:	What’s the Florida Blue Key? What is that for?



	H:	Florida Blue Key is the state political fraternity. So, you have the gourmet key in Tallahassee and you have the Blue Key here, and the other. So, you haven’t been around the yard yet.

	R:	I just moved into Gainesville six months ago, sometime in Chicago a little.



	H:	Well, anyway, it’s not a good thing for African American to have a Florida Blue Key. At least, that’s the way I thought of it because most of the people I knew who over the years got the Florida Blue Key, one of them end in prison, or he





was a politician. He had been a football player, over in Jacksonville. One of them left campus to the crazy world, a Ward D at Shands and then there was one boy that was a Kappa, the other one was a Sigma. I think he had been vice president of the student body one time but they didn’t understand the politics. The politics is real simple: be about what you’re gonna be about. The problem is if you don’t know nothing, you can’t be about nothing.

	R:	Right! Right!



	H:	One of the things that people didn’t understand about me coming through here, I was third generation free out of slavery. My great grandfather was a slave.

	R:	Were you able to meet any of your past ancestors? Grandmother, grandpas, great grandma?

	H:	I knew my grandfather. R:	Your grandfather. Okay.

	H:	But I didn’t know my great grandfather ‘cause he was dead. He was a slave. [Laughter]

	R:	Did you ever try to track down your history?



	H:	I knew a lot about it. I knew a lot of family stories so that’s what guided me while I was here at the University of Florida. The fact that I was third generation free and my grandfather couldn’t read and write. Okay but he was a very smart man. He could figure and I could figure that’s why I ended up. That’s how I got out of the University of Florida because I could do the math. If I couldn’t do the math, they would have beat me. You see, no one was developing, nurturing us. We had to get it on our own. So that’s really the story of the early African Americans here





was the story of people trying to get it. You see, we had a psalm back in the day: Trying to Get Over. You hear it in Curtis Mayfield Superfly [Sings] [Laughter] But that’s really what it’s all about. The idea is that you start with nothing, you gat to get over. So, you come to the university to get you a background to get over. So, I come to the university with the idea that I needed a master’s degree. It didn’t matter what it was in, as long as I got a master’s degree because undergraduate degree, I consider that a player’s license. Master’s degree was a dealer’s license.

	R:	And that was back in the day when, I mean, it was more credible back then that is not now but a B.A. is like, oh! back in the day was like respected right off the bag like it had much more power than what it upholds now.

	H:	Well, you gotta deal with the reality of situation. In the old days, you had to have a letter of introduction, nowadays, you have a degree.

	R:	Right.



	H:	That’s your letter of introduction. So, if you have your undergraduate degree, that’s your letter of introduction. I don’t mean to trigger the play that means you have player’s license.

	R:	Okay. I understand.



	H:	And so, the university is in the business of selecting our players so they’re looking for weaknesses whether they are psychological weaknesses or what? So, there are a lot of mind games that we get played professors. You get professors closing the door on you [Inaudible 13:02] when, you know, give you bad grade, you go talk to them. You get the administrators who have objective. I had one administrator, I ended up having a captain’s police call on me once. The





whole point was they caught an activist. Well, I’m a Black graduate student, I can’t be an activist. How can you be an activist when you are a graduate student? You don’t have time for that. That’s the psychology that we were dealing with. I had a class. It was a management class, 500 level and my teacher asked me what I was going to do with [Inaudible 13:44] organization. So, I ended up writing my paper on volunteerism because you had to have a comeback that disarms the enemy. The enemy is sitting –they’re putting pressure on your professors to find out why you’re trying to take over something they’re running.

But I wasn’t trying to take over that they were running, I just got involved, and you know, it was worth it for me because I realized that people had problems. The biggest problem was they were lonely. They didn’t have any relationship so they would come here. They couldn’t do their work as graduate students because they were suffering. Some of them had something going on back home. You know, most of the students, Black graduate students were married with children. So, could you imagine coming here and doing a Ph.D. and they hold you six to seven years to get a Ph.D. in Accounting? That’s what we were dealing with. We’re still dealing with that.

	R:	You’re lucky if your girlfriend or wife at that time doesn’t break up with you from all that stress too, putting and reflecting on them at the same time.

	H:	And that’s it. So, you know, as president of the Black Graduate Students’ Union, then what I was trying to do was bringing together all the different faculties and graduate students. You had the law students, the med students. So, when we all come together and you know—Of course, you can’t have that because then you





got too many people together. So, somebody who works for the university is gonna make sure that they spread words. So the power of suggestion is a very, very powerful tool. You get to see it here but when you get into the real world after, you know, fighting wars here, you’re pretty good at it. So, when I had to deal with the UAW, most people were – how can you take this kind of beating from the UAW. And I was like I went through graduate school at University of Florida. [Laughter]

	R:	It’s not much different. [Laughter] You mastered it all. It’s like I’m good.



	H:	I’m good. [Laughter] The whole key thing is knowing who you are regardless of any conversation you and I have, you have with anyone else. The question is and was at the time you’re going through here, did you know who you are?

	R:	That’s the problem when you’re by yourself, you don’t have a lot of people similar to you. Who am I? What am I at this point?

	H:	Except you better know in your heart of hearts that I am that I am. R:	That’s so true.

	H:	It’s true.



	R:	Even up today, it’s like it’s still the same ideology, like center yourself and know exactly what you’re doing and why you’re here.

	H:	That’s correct. And so that was really what it was. So, I met Dr. Foreman, like I said. He was my advisor, then, you know, I needed to graduate and I did three times the course work for a master’s degree so that means at that time, I needed over a hundred fifty hours; a quarter hours.

	R:	Wow!





	H:	You only need like fifty-three.



	R:	Why did you do so many? Or what was the reason behind that?



	H:	They were trying to break me. Flunk me out and I wouldn’t quit. So, they flunked me out of the Ph.D. program at that time with which I didn’t apply to. I only wanted a master’s in International Trade and Finance. Someone of the Jewish persuasion said that he is not of the quality; a character that we would get a master’s degree from the University of Florida so the war was on. So, they broke me out of the economics program, somehow I got a little help from Dr. William Frazier. I was able to get another shot at it. They put me in the MBA program. By the time they figured out what I was doing, they wouldn’t let me have a MBA in Finance. They told me I couldn’t get an MBA in Finance. I had to use my economics but I couldn’t use my economics because they had given me five hours C’s. So, in other to get over that, I had to have three in four our A’s.

	R:	You had to redo it.



	H:	No, I had to have three in four our A’s. You see, you’re talking about the way the average GPA.

	R:	Okay.



	H:	So, we fought over the GPA and when they looked around, I had completed all the way through management control systems in Accounting but I wasn’t an accounting student ‘cause I hadn’t been accepted into Accounting. So, they said, “All right, man. We ain’t going to give you no MBA even though you done finish the course work”. So, I ended up fighting. In the end, they said, “Well, write a thesis’. So, I started writing a thesis and we had a big fight until {Inaudible 18:50]





I took the year off because it didn’t matter what I did, I wasn’t going to get no degree out of that.

	R:	It was never a good enough, for them.



	H:	So, we ended up fighting. I wrote a six-page letter with fifteen supporting documents and gave it to them and they said, you know. I said, “Well, if you don’t let me handle it, I’mma call the police. Guess what they said “Call the police”.

	R:	Wow!



	H:	So, when I called the police, they were upset. Why? Because they thought I was gonna call for the EEOC. I went to vice-president Academic Affairs. So, he called over here and they supposed to have it taken care of but I went over there and I went over there and they told me, [Laughter] “Tough titty” So, I went back to him, he called over there. He said, “Arnold? I thought we had this taken care of.” So, I went back over there. They gave me a professor who I had taken a verbal exam from the TA gave me a low grade and I went to him and complained and he said “Okay, I can only give you one grade bump”. He gave me a C. I passed with an A but I got a B. Oh, they held your grades back. So, that’s what you don’t understand. This whole GPA thing is just like performance appraisal evaluation in the real world. We can manipulate that. If you don’t understand that the newer one with the problem. You see, that what happens, most people don’t understand so they end up with the problem. I had a Chinese professor. He says, you know, when they’re brushing their mouth, you spit out the blood and keep going, my accounting professor. That’s how bad it was. It was rough out there. So, you see, people don’t –they think that what you hear in these stories, like you heard of





those stories that–those are somebody’s stories but there are different kinds of stories but all those stories about mind. How strong are you in your mind? Do you know who you are? Sometimes, even the strong people, something happens, you trip over, you break down and you make a mistake.

	R:	But after all, this is like you were pretty much self-made man at that point where it’s like –nothing can really hurt me at that point like going through all these is like that makes you stronger in a sense.

	H:	Well, yeah. The whole idea is self-knowledge. Do you know yourself even better now? Are you stronger today than you were? Are you a better person today than you were yesterday? That was what guided me when I came here. Can I be a better person today than I was yesterday? And I remember, my grandpa couldn’t read or write. And so, you know, I’m just one of those people. I’m third generation free out of slavery so this has not been an easy project for me. And since like I said Dr. Foreman came along, then I finally got them to say, “Okay, we’re gonna let you out, you gotta write a thesis”. So, I started doing the research. I researched for a whole year but I couldn’t write it up, I don’t know how to write.

So, I went to Dr. Foreman and told him what I was trying to do, and we outlined it. We made the boxes. See, I needed to induce – I wanted to use inductive logic but I didn’t know a vast exposition. My wife was a Ph.D. candidate at Wisconsin. She bought me a [Inaudible 22:49] outline and that’s when I realized that I was trying to do inductive logic. She said, “Oh! I teach that”. So, she gave me a book by [Inaudible 22:57], helped me get my masters and helped another person get a master’s and helped one person get a Ph.D. That same book because I knew





what it meant, what was missing from my education. So, I needed to be able to write. I had taken an advanced position as an undergraduate but it didn’t help me until I started writing that thesis. And so, Dr. Foreman helped me lay it out, what I was trying to do ‘cause chapter two was the core of the thesis. They wanted to know what was the— How could I make sense out of all the quantitative research on case mix and I did. Basically, it came down to perform to president evaluation which was the course that I took – the last course, one of the four of the last which is controllership function; management control systems. So it set up the performance measure for the health care industry.

	R:	Well, there was a lot of structure, it was like—



	H:	I had to develop the structure, so basically it was strong enough for a PhD dissertation, but something happened and the [Inaudible 24:11] write up, there was some typos, major typos. We don’t know where they come from because the Bureau of Economics and Business Research were doing the editing and everything and we thought we had –so when it came time, you know, at the end, there was a problem. I mean, I finished, I graduated. They told me, “We’ll let you graduate, we wouldn’t let you make any money.” So, my chairman, he went on to be chair of the Allied Help Program at Chapel Hill and the other person –Dr.

Green on the committee, he went to Utah, somewhere, became a consultant, help set up HMOs. So using that methodology, you can now control the total dollar value of healthcare in the United States.

	R:	And they were saying it wasn’t good enough and somebody… H:	Oh, no. They knew it was good enough.





	R:	It’s just they didn’t want you to—



	H:	They weren’t gonna make any money. The point was I could have graduated but they weren’t gonna let me make any money, so I was blacklisted, effectively, I was blacklisted. Okay. That was only the first time.

	R:	That was only the first time? What? [Laughter]



	H:	Yeah! I had to [Inaudible 25:24] that’s a whole another story. See, because the key thing is when I come out of here – I was a gunslinger. You’re talking about a Black man who could do computers, who could analyze systems, who could read organizations. Oh, no! I was a strange animal. But I couldn’t make any money at all.

	R:	You couldn’t make any money at all?



	H:	‘Cause they wouldn’t let me. See, when you do the kind of stuff that I do, they [Inaudible 25:50] analysis I will put it like this. The last project I did— Okay, once we fought – I fought the university and they let out, the Dean of the graduate school –Dean Price says well, he didn’t even know that there had been this three-year fight going on between me and the university. So, he gave me a job since I was broke to come up with the methodology, the control of total dollar values of contracts and grants at the University of Florida in the graduate school. So, he set me for twenty hours and told me, you know, to go over there to the museum, on the corner and talk to some lady and she would tell me. So, I did what they tell me to do for the first twenty hours and it didn’t get me anywhere, but then I figured out the next twenty hours, I did it because I knew what it was. So, I set it up. I didn’t even give them a big write up because they were only





paying me four dollars an hour. They gave me one hundred dollars, at four dollars an hour. I did it in forty hours and then the next sixty hours, I did push up and read books but there was a good book called: Non- [Inaudible 27:09] College Conspiracy.

	R:	I have to check it out.



	H:	Yeah. [Laughter] We could talk for days. I will be giving you stories. Some of the Black graduate students call me the godfather. It was funny ‘cause then they said, “Oh, he is the original Black boy gator”. And it has nothing to do with money. It has to do with influence and ability for us to help each other and that was what I tried to teach everybody, how to help each other.

	R:	Do you think the university or the students’ itself have changed now. Like walking through all these collectively, you know, fighting for each other or trying to like fight for themselves?

	H:	Well, the university is a training field. Basically, what they do is they – you know, all average state try to stay out of stuff for all I can see but there are individuals who are being influenced at a given time about a given situation. So, you think that the university itself, nah, they don’t give a damn. Okay. They have their own agenda: trying to develop, trying to be strong, and trying to be all that. But individually, individual pockets, individual people have agenda and that’s where the problem is. You know, if you’re a White supremacist, no matter whether you’re a PhD or a janitor or you’re [Inaudible 28:48]. So, what I found is that the Black folks here for me when I was here in the [19]70s, I came in [19]75, were my community whether they were Black faculty and staff, whether – the man that





cut the grass, he and I were good friends. I could talk to him because my daddy was a landscaper. I knew him. I know how to talk to this man.

	R:	Was he a person of color too? H:	Yeah! He was a Black guy.

	R:	Okay, so it was easy to—



	H:	He had no [Inaudible 29:23] like me, we had tea. He ran his crew and me and him can talk, you see what I’m saying?

	R:	Yeah.



	H:	But I could talk to him like a man. I couldn’t – a lot of these professors, you can’t talk to them like a man. They think they’re superior because of their race.

	R:	High hierarchy and I think that they—



	H:	But then if you noticed the professors that had the greatest impacts on students are the ones who talk to them as individuals, as a man or a woman. I talk to you as a man. I have elated you as a person, but when you go into a situation like when me, you see, I knew I was being monitored by the Jewish professors and the college professors because I did a project right here that was [Inaudible 30:15], right across the street here, it used to right here, where the parking lot is across from the Library West. You know where the empty parking lot is?

	R:	Yes.



	H:	But that was the [Inaudible 30:24]. Before that, it was a restaurant, so one of my boys who called himself a business consultant; he was a white boy, dirty white boy too. [Laughter] He is actually a republican. He kinda reminds me of – I don’t know what he does but he is in Alabama, north Florida, Georgia, he is a





republican worker, big time so he called me. So, I figured, you know, something came up in the Republican Party and he just checked me so they asked him to call me ‘cause I hadn’t heard from him since I left the University of Florida. But after the president got in, he checked to see what was happening, so he checked. But anyway, Kin Lamb, he was a dirty White boy. He hung out with the president of student body but he got me [Inaudible 31:17] on the board as a board member. You know, you had a Black president and student government, vice-president and white president. Well, him and the White president hung out. The guy hung out with him and the White president. But I didn’t hang out with the Black vice-president and his boys, his colleagues. They had office over at second floor. They hung out up there doing nothing. Meanwhile, I go to the parties, you know, I been to the Florida Blue clip party. You already know what that is. Florida Blue C-L-I-P. I’ll give you the handshake. [Gestures] I’m that boy. That’s why they didn’t like me ‘cause they couldn’t figure out why I ended up in places. I was everywhere.

	R:	Did they question you or ask you?



	H:	No. They questioned me about the Black Graduate Student Organization, took my thesis. They had spies.

	R:	They would go even to that extent just to …?



	H:	No, people worked for them. Lot of people trying to get their PhD work for the university. And they were Black graduate students. Like a lady told me: “Lancy, you don’t know when the other person sold out”. Oh, yeah, it was different.

	R:	That’s definitely not what I expected, you know.





	H:	[Laughter]



	R:	I’m just like okay. [Laughter] I’m like where are my questions, you know what, just keep talking.

	H:	I believe there are some specific questions you probably wanna get to.



	R:	No, I mean that just about the [Inaudible 33:08] like the importance from what I’m seeing at least right now, it goes back to the beginnings like how did we survive and end up…where do we go from here?

	H:	Okay. Here is the thing, my daughter graduated from here and I don’t think I could graduate from here now.

	R:	How did you feel even to allow your daughter to come here after everything that you’ve gone through yourself, I mean, [Inaudible 33:31] change I suppose but there could have been any other university. Why UF?

	H:	Here is the thing, first of all, she was here and she was able to go for 75 percent because of presidential whatever on scholarship so she got 75 percent ride. You see what I’m saying, so the idea is University of Florida is an excellent school, the problem …Here is the thing about University of Florida, if you have money and you come from money, and you come from resources, then University of Florida is where you come to polish to become a master politician. If you don’t have anything, you come here, you get the technical skills so you can then earn a living and be somebody. So, I came here to learn a technical skill. I didn’t have the time to learn the political skills because I didn’t know I needed them, I didn’t know what they were. Guess what, I did pick them up because I had to get through here. After I got the graduate school, it became political, in other words,





we are not gonna just give you a graduate degree from the University of Florida. See, undergraduate degree is recreating alumni, you can get plenty alumni. But when you get to the graduate and professional programs, now you are talking about the quality of what they are doing in addition. You see what I’m saying?

Now, you go on into like – in economics, University of Florida was an enclave of empiricism, but prior to that, they were not. See, when we came, the original program was the old school program like in finance you had banking, in insurance, you had cooperate finance, then you have investments and those kind of things. But see now, everybody who was coming through where I was coming through wanted to be a finance major but nobody was learning operations. So, I was operations research analyst by training.

	R:	You had special skills at that time.



	H:	But not only that because they wouldn’t let me graduate the way I wanted to graduate and I was fighting [Inaudible 35:52] studying this accounting. Now, I know everything I need. So, because I’ve fought them back, I gained more than if I just quit. That’s what the three types of course work because I had to grind my way to the core program in accounting to beat them who would beat me. The game was already rigged. There’s no way in the world I was going to graduate, the way it was set up. It was set up for me to fail so I had to find a way to win.

See, that’s what this is all about. Can you survive? Are you [Inaudible 36:33]? Are you a low runner?

	R:	Right. And being young at that time, it kinda like –sometimes thinking of developing the mental ways.





	H:	Well, I wasn’t that young. I came here in [19]75. I was twenty-four years old when I got here. I had been out of school six years. That transfer from Miami Dade community college so I grew up in Miami. I had been a salesman. I grew up in sales so I …

	R:	I’m sure that helped a lot too ‘cause you kind of understand people and how to kinda like get your way, kind of like, you know, get what you need to show to the person.

	H:	To analyze the situation. You see, situational analysis is a very important aspect of life and so from the University of Florida I learnt so many different frameworks for that. That’s what school teaches you framework for analysis. So, you’re supposed to be able to gain knowledge and understand and pass it to the next person because you have these frameworks already built up from your studies.

	R:	Just grab them and put them in a different scenario. H:	Yeah. There you go! That’s what that’s all about.

	R:	And you will have to adapt.



	H:	Yeah. All right then. I think we better–I gotta get back to my work.



	R:	Okay. No problem. Well, I appreciate the interview and this will conclude the interview for today. Thank you very much.

	H:	Okay.





[End of interview]



Transcribed by: Mosunmola Ogunmolaji, September 20, 2021 Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, September 20, 2021





Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, September 21, 2021