AAHP 007; Skinner; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 007 Ann Skinner

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Marna Weston on January 27, 2010 60 minutes | 26 pages



Abstract: Marna Weston talks to Ann Douglass Skinner about her life living in Lake City, Columbia County, Florida. She discusses her time as a high school teacher during integration in the 1970s. She reflects on the struggles that both the teachers and the students faced. Mrs. Skinner notes the inequality that many of her Black friends and students faced living in rural North Florida. The interviewee then discusses her late husband, Sherrill N. “Pete” Skinner. He served in the Vietnam war and later went on to serve in the Peace Corps in India and the Caribbean. Pete studied political science at the University of Florida and served as a member of the state House of Representatives and the Florid State Senate in the 1970s and 1980s. Mrs. Skinner remembers her home always being busy with politicians and her husband’s constituents.



Keywords: [Integration; Education; Florida Senate; African American History; Alachua County, Florida]







































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 007

Interviewee: Ann Douglass Skinner Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date: January 27, 2010



	S:	Okay, you start off.



	W:	Alrighty. Well, this is Marna Weston recording for the Sam Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida on today, January 27, 2010, at the home of Ann Douglass Skinner. Thank you so much for letting us come to your home and conduct this interview.

	S:	Well, you’re certainly welcome, and I am so happy you’re here. W:	Thank you.

	S:	I think the project is wonderful.



	W:	Well, terrific. The project is the University of Florida’s Alachua County African American History Project, which will also touch with elements with the entire state of Florida. And Lake City being such an important part of Florida, we thought it would be great to come and speak with you, due to your longstanding community ties. So thank you, again. I’d like to begin just finding out about you and Douglass Skinner. Can you please tell us about yourself? Where you were born? A little bit about your family?

	S:	I was born to Nellie Hollingsworth Roberts and William Lee Roberts and kind of covered the south end of the county, my mother being from Fort White and my father being from a community just north of Lake City. So I was really fortunate to have the best of both worlds to meet right here in the middle in the big city, so that was an interesting thing. I was born, raised here, went to school here, graduated from Columbia High School—I won’t say the year—and then always knew that I’d be a teacher, that was, it was never even a question. My mother





was a teacher and I just thought that was the most wonderful thing that you could do in life. I really enjoyed the idea that I, too, one day would be a teacher. And I taught school—English, Drama, whatever—for 36 years.

	W:	Now, where did you receive your training to prepare you to be a teacher?



	S:	I went to the University of Florida. I could not wait. That was my goal in life, too. My mother had graduated from there. Of course, at that time in life, Florida State, for women, was a really wonderful idea. I had no interest at all in doing that. I wanted to go to the University of Florida because to me, that my mother had gone, it was a good idea that I go also. I had a wonderful experience at the University, got my Bachelor’s there in 1966. Then my parents had said, “Why don’t you stay and get your Master’s?” Well, being the smart, young person that I was, I said, “Oh, I want to go earn money.” So, I went out and started teaching, and then went back when it finally dawned on me: “You know, I need to go back.” So I went back and graduated with my Master’s in [19]84.

	W:	What was your first teaching job? Where did you teach?



	S:	At the time, it was Lake City Middle School—or Junior High School, they called it.



That’s where I started out. Later, as the schools began to change, sometimes they’d try a 7th grade center and then a 9th grade center and then they’d change it all around. But I taught 9th grade English most of my life.

	W:	What was your first year teaching?



	S:	I graduated in December of [19]66 and began teaching in January of [19]67.



	W:	Okay, a very interesting time period because Florida, of course, fully integrated its schools in 1971, but until then, there was still some incremental changes that





were taking place. What was the climate of integration like when you first began to teach?

	S:	As a matter of fact, we integrated the schools in Columbia County in a very unusual way. Instead of integrating the students, they decided to change the teachers. So we had a lottery. Only lottery I ever won in my life. This is where you put the names in the hat from the different schools and drew a name out, and if your name was drawn, you would switch places and go to the Black high school, for example, in my case. So, my name was drawn. And I believe this happened in, maybe February of that year. It wasn’t the beginning of that year, as I recall. So I switched places with a teacher at Richardson Middle School, which was the Black high school and I was actually rather excited about it because I saw it as an opportunity. I went out and I collected books on Black athletes. I remember one of them was Gibson, the tennis player. I collected all these things and I was just really looking forward to something that was different. I guess in some ways this was good because I always loved challenges. I went to the high school and we had a couple of days to kind of get everything changed around. I went upstairs in this very old building and I went into my classroom. I remember looking around and there’s really nothing there. And I looked out the window and there was a chicken yard down below; I was just thinking about how absolutely different this was. And, of course, I’d only been teaching a couple of years when this happened, so I didn’t have a whole lot of experience under my belt, but kids are kids, no matter what. So, on the first day of school, my students came in and I think they were as fascinated with me as I was with them. I can





remember, at the time, I had very long, straight hair, and they were fascinated with my hair. They really wanted to touch my hair and I just thought that was so interesting. These are things that I learned. A lady that I had known through my family—her name was Ms. Goodbread—she taught across the hall, and she was so helpful. I’d go ask her everything. “What do I do about this?” Because things were different—we didn’t do things the same way. She gave me a lot of really good guidance to help me get through. But it was traumatic. It was traumatic for the kids, and it was traumatic for me. I always had this idea that we have Blacks and we have Whites, and we’re just all going to become grey. That’s really what I was, the brotherly love and what’s best for everyone. These are kids and we’re charged with the responsibility to do the best educational job we can do. I recognized that that was not the case; it would not be a matter of grey, but it would be a matter of Black people and White people learning to live together.

Because each has its own culture, each has its own experiences, and it’s very hard to just simply mesh that together instantly—mix it together and everything’s going to be fine. And that it was going to be a very long, drawn-out situation.

	W:	Well, we’re talking about the 1960’s. The late [19]60’s, with the movement, and the war in Vietnam, and so many other strong social and cultural issues taking place. During the course of your first year as a teacher, could you share with us one of the high points of your teaching experience, and perhaps contrast it with one of the low points in the teaching experience that took place?

	S:	Wow, I’m trying to think. This was just about the time that I made the switch from one school to another. I had a young man who sat in the back and he never said





a word. All my students would talk, and you know this, it was wonderful. One of the students asked a question; it was a highly technical question. It was about the space, what was going on with the space program. And I said, “I have no earthly idea what the answer is,” but I said, “maybe tonight we can do some research and tomorrow we’ll come up with whatever the answer is.” This young man, who’d been sitting there forever, raised his hand and he very quietly said, “I know,” and I’m thinking, “Mmhm.” So I was like, “Well, tell us about it.” He just began to talk and he just told this fabulous story, and I’m thinking, “Well, I don’t know if he’s right or wrong, but it sure sounds good, because I don’t know the answer.” I asked him the question, I said, “How did you learn this?” He said, “I watch Channel 5,” which is the educational station—the only one at the time. I thought, “Isn’t that interesting?” Because he didn’t read, failed all the tests, and I’m thinking, how can a person who communicates so beautifully, and knows all this stuff—because I did check when I came home that night, and he was absolutely right on. So I spoke with someone because back then we didn’t have in-school testing the way we did, I said, “I think there’s a problem here.” As it turned out, he was dyslexic. I suggested to his parents—because at the time we didn’t have any programs—and I said, “You know, if he were my son, I would make arrangements to take him to the university and have some tests done and see what the situation is.” Today, he is a very successful—went to college. I see him frequently and I think, “Wow,” you know? He could have fallen through the cracks. So that was one of the high points, was realizing that if you are observant and if you pay attention, that you can make such a difference in a person’s life.





And by the same token, I think the low point is that, when you realize that no matter how hard you try, there are some that you cannot reach. And, to refer back to going to Richardson, it was such a devastating time to realize that there was a true difference in what was available for students who were on the other end of town. The materials were not there, and the kids were just kids. So it was really difficult because I would see what could be done, but of course, being totally unprepared, really, to know exactly how I could make a difference. That was very frustrating. To be perfectly frank, everyone was so upset at the time, I’m not sure much lying went on anyway because it was difficult for everyone and everyone was at a disadvantage. And if you felt drawn—as a matter of fact, I remember a young woman called in, she asked me—she knew I played the piano. It was a Black woman and she said, “I would like for my daughter to take music lessons,” but there was no one to teach. She asked me if I would consider teaching her child. Now, you know when you’re in that kind of situation, I had no problem with that. That’s when you begin to think about all the encompassing problems that you can run into. And that’s where you begin to weigh those issues that—because at that time, there was a real line between what is okay, where you live, where you go. So as I look back on that, I think about all the people who were brave and they stepped out and they did the things that needed to be done to provide opportunities for kids that didn’t have that opportunity. I had a choice of all kinds of people to take music lessons from when I was growing up. The choices were very different for each group, and so it was just a very difficult and trying time. It’s very upsetting. I can remember I had a family member who had a





restaurant—a very popular restaurant—and rather than open it up to anybody except White people, he closed the restaurant. I also remember that some of my very good friends later in life were those who went and sat at the lunch counter. I think about the experiences, and growing up, and trying to maintain communication with both sides so that you could affect some change without having everything stop because everybody is just so convinced they’re right. And that’s a hard place to be—very hard.

	W:		I’m so glad you mentioned the lunch counters because next month—well I guess just in a couple of weeks—is the 50th anniversary of the sit-ins that took place at AMT in Greensboro, February 1, 1960. As you think back on that time, and the activities that were taking place in this community where you lived, what was significant about those times? What was taking place that you can remember, that pops out in your mind?

	S:	What I really remember is, it was really low-key in this area. It wasn’t what we were seeing on the news in some of the other areas. It was more subtle. I do remember the concern when some of the Black kids went to the high school— Columbia High School. These were primarily sons and daughters of teachers— those who knew that in order for their kids to achieve on the level they needed to, they needed to be in a place where the activities were available and the educational system was going to prepare them to go on to college. I look back and I think, wow, that took a lot of courage, because there were only, say, thirty- four in the entire school. As a result of putting yourself in that position, that had to be difficult for the parents, as well as for the students, because when you’re the





pioneer it’s not easy to break that trail. That, to me, was one of the significant things that I remember. Later on in life those kids did really well. They had become lawyers, doctors, and have been wonderful in our community. So, we have come a long way in a lot of ways.

	W:	Why do you think it’s so difficult to be that first person that blazes the trail—the pioneer? Earlier we were talking about that and you mentioned how tough it is to be first at something. Why do you think that is?

	S:	Because I think that all of us want to be loved by everybody and we want other people to agree with our decisions and so it’s really difficult when you know that what you’re going to do it going to cause criticism. It’s seen, not just so much as a criticism, but that you’re going to do something that cannot be taken back. It’s taking that step and you keep going forward—you can’t stop, you can’t change it; it’s there forever. So if it doesn’t work out really well, you’ve got a problem too and you’re going to have to address it and answer to it—absolutely.

	W:	A couple more 1960’s questions, then we’ll move forward. I’m curious about the effect and reaction in the general, overall community in this part of North Florida. 1968—Martin Luther King’s assassination.

	S:	I remember the day that that happened. Ben’s dad, Ted Douglass and I were going down the highway and the news flash came on and we were just stunned. It was far away—it was not something that affected our lives at the moment, so to speak. I think if I had lived in a different place, a larger city, whatever, it would have had more of a—I remember thinking, watching the news and whatever, “How can people do those kinds of things?” I just remember the devastation that I





felt, and I can honestly say that I didn’t really discuss with a lot of people what I felt about it because I don’t think that always what I thought was the norm. So there’s not a lot of people that you could sit and talk to about how this would affect a community in the long-run. I can remember not really understanding that because we didn’t really know or hear that much in our community about this man, so there was not really an understanding of what he stood for and what an impact his particular method of non-violence would mean—that we could have taken a much more violent approach, and some did. I think that probably colored things in a respect, for example, Malcolm X—the difference in how you achieve a goal. I do know that when we finally were able to have celebrations of Martin Luther King Day and to remember, and I always, before it became mandatory to have something in the classroom—what better learning experience? Because these kids that are growing up don’t have a history—they don’t know—they think everything’s always been the way it is. They don’t really understand how things are now because of what people have done for you in the past. So, I would always do the “I Have a Dream” speech and we would talk about those who had taken those hard steps and it was—I’m just a little person in comparison to what the great man did—but how difficult, talk about taking a step that you can’t take back, and going to jail and all the horrible things that he was willing to put himself out there for, all for the betterment of society as a whole.

	W:	Just a few weeks later, Robert Kennedy was assassinated, and people give him a lot of credit for extemporaneous eulogy that he gave at Indianapolis of the people that were there waiting for him to give a campaign speech. It wasn’t like





today with Twitter and the Internet, and they didn’t know that King had been assassinated. So, Robert Kennedy had to come out and give that news to the crowd. When you mentioned the different responses in different communities, or different places, just reminded me of that. What was it like when you heard about Robert Kennedy’s assassination?

	S:	Once again, living in the area that I do, I would venture to say that the overall opinion was that the Kennedys were sort of outside the norm. Therefore, there wasn’t, generally speaking, a lot of feeling—I mean, don’t get me wrong, it was a horrible event, and they were certainly very sorry—but I sort of sense there was this underlying situation where, perhaps if it hadn’t been so open, you might still be with us. And this is what happens when one puts themselves out there to interact. But once again, that is looking at it from the standpoint of those who are an activist involved in making changes in our society and that’s why it was always important to me in dealing with young people. I felt that when I came out of high school and I went to university, I found out what all I didn’t know. Because if it was controversial, it was something that the small community didn’t agree with, then you just didn’t know about it. So when I got there I thought, “Oh, wow. All these people know all these things that I don’t know.” So I was very quiet for a very long time. I had to learn. I had to work really hard. I had to learn—I had many Jewish friends in my classes. I had no idea that there was such an animosity toward a group of people. It was unbelievable. I learned a great deal.

When I came back to my community and I said this to someone, more than once, it’s amazing I’ve managed to live and survive for thirty-six years and not fail in





what I see as my responsibility to teach my kids, so that when they go out into the world they are not so lost as I was. I just think that’s an important point. I always started out by taking a huge piece of poster-board, plain white, and take a pencil and make a dot in the middle and I’d say, this is the world, and this is you. Because we are all important as individuals, but we have to work together in order to make a difference, but if you don’t know about these differences then you can’t make a difference. So it was just the idea that I never wanted to send my students out so unprepared. And I probably was one of the first to do the—for example, the conversations about, in history, which I brought into my English classroom because it was important, and that’s how you affect change. I knew how students felt because they mirrored exactly what they were hearing from home. I could take any election—national, state, local—I could have them vote in the classroom and I could tell you exactly how the election was gonna go. Not a problem because they mirrored. Also, I saw that educators have a very important role because you have more impact on those kids than anybody else. So if you have the right—right being an attitude of making sure they’re prepared—then you can really influence those kids and how they think and feel. Did I get off the topic of which you asked?

	W:		No, it’s terrific. I do have one last little [19]60’s question, and I guess I’ll stay on the Kennedy theme—John F. Kennedy, at the beginning of the [19]60’s, made the commitment that we would send a man to the moon before the end of the decade, and in 1969, we did so. What do you remember about that moon landing?





	S:	I remember that I’d just gotten a new cat and I named the cat Apollo. That’s what I remember first. Yes, we all sat and watched this event, just absolutely amazed at what we were able to achieve in such a short period of time. I also remember all the people who didn’t believe it happened—that it was a government conspiracy. This is true. [Laughter] But it did happen. Yes, they thought it was just a government hoax—that man did not walk on the moon. And I can remember having to deal with those issues in the classroom. Yeah, I do remember that. I also remember that, speaking of the Kennedys, once again, people who don’t follow the norm, especially in the area where you live, it’s very difficult. Of course, in North Florida, the fact of his religion played a huge role. My best friend happened to be Catholic; and I will share one funny thing about it.

She had grown up in Shaker Heights, Ohio and they came to Florida. And we became instant friends ‘cause we both loved to read and her dad would bring books home from the VA library; so we began very close. I invited her to come and spend the night. The problem I had was that the first question, especially in rural areas, that people ask—“What’s your name?” And, “What church do you go to?” Well, I had a problem because I really didn’t want to share with my family that she was a Catholic. This might not be good because, where I grew up, our Sunday school lessons were Catholics had horns, and it was bad. So I thought, I just won’t share that part. So she spent several nights on Friday night—it was always Friday night because Sunday you had to go to church, so you couldn’t stay at somebody’s house on Saturday night. So my mother said to me one day, “You need to ask Yvonne to come spend the night.” I’m sorry; I went to her house





to spend the night because I didn’t have to worry about anything. Finally they said, “You have to have Yvonne come and spend the night.” I’m so worried because that meant it was a Friday, and you only ate fish on Friday and we never ate fish unless we went to a fish fry. What was I gonna do? So I waited and I waited and she was coming that weekend and my mother asked me on Wednesday, “Well, what do you girls want to eat on Friday?” I said, “Fish?” She said, “Fish?” She said, “Why fish?” I said, “Well, I think fish would be a really good idea.” Finally she said, “What is this fish thing?” I said, “Mother, Yvonne’s Catholic, and they only eat fish on Friday.” Well, my mother was just shocked when I said this, but she said, “Okay.” So she came—it was wonderful—my mother, bless her heart was—over time would ask questions about the things we thought and what really worked—and this is so often the case, what we learn and what we think, it’s not good information. So you need to talk to the people who’ve been there. It’s much like asking people what it was like in the [19]60’s, and unless you were there, you really don’t know. It was so different and it was a

“had-to-be-there” experience. So, I learned from that. Of course, she told me later that when you went to someone’s home and it was a Friday you could eat whatever they had, it was okay. So I went through all this trauma that I didn’t have to go through. But it’s just an example of how a community—she was the only, except for one other family. There was two Catholics in Lake City and we had one Jewish girl, so I mean, it’s not like we had a lot of options out here about learning about other cultures. That’s what I think is so important, is that, when I think about Pearlie Mae Griffin, who raised my son, who’s my best friend for over





forty years, she’s always there for me and I’m always there for her, and that is not something that comes from anything except growing together—to know each other so well, to trust her judgment. I trust her to raise my child and make decisions. That’s a pretty big issue. I remember, she drove, but she didn’t have a car, so she was gonna get a car. Ben was getting older, where she could take him places and whatever. So in order to make sure everything was okay I said I would pay her car insurance, which would help her out. There was an issue about how to get the insurance because, “Pearlie,” I said—she gave me the quote and that is so high. She said, “It’s a cracker place.” I’d never heard that in my entire life. I said, “What do you mean a cracker place?” She said, “Because I’m Black, it costs more. And that hopefully will keep me from going there.” Well, these are things you learn on the way to learning other things. I remember when she took my son to the doctor, and of course, you had to wait for hours in the waiting room. So I would go to school and she would take him to the doctor, and then these were in the days of no cell phones, so she would have them call and give the message to me at school and I would leave school and go to the doctor and meet them there. One day I got the call and I walked into the office and I look around and they’re not in there. I said, I had a call that Pearlie and Ben were going in for an appointment, but they’re not here. That’s because they were in another waiting room. I walked into—I didn’t even know it existed, and I’d been going there for years—and there sits Pearlie with my son, and I am totally amazed. Now, he was born in 1970, so you can see that, timewise, it was a very slow integration of all the things that happened. So those are things that I learned





that most people didn’t even know. I can imagine that those experiences—it was not me who was having to deal with it, and how very difficult it had to be for those who were actually in the midst of it. I think I was about sixteen and my dad asked me to—there was a lady that would come and do some ironing, so he asked me to take her home. We went to get in the car, and she went to get into the back seat. I said, “No, sit up here with me.” It just was, in my mind, the right thing to do. It was only years later that I realized that what I asked her to do was probably not a good thing for her. You don’t understand that you can put someone else in a bad position out of thinking it’s the right thing to do. I thought about that many times, ‘cause that was long before the [19]60’s, you know, as far as the time frame. But I often think about what we do that we just don’t think about.

	W:	Can we break for a sec? S:	Yeah, we can.

	W:	Okay.



[Break in the recording]



	W:	Mrs. Skinner, you have such a lovely home and such a warm feeling being here today. Just looking at the photographs, at the history, and this warm feeling, I wonder if you’d like to take a few moments and talk to us about your home.

	S:	I’d love to.



	W:	What would we like to know about this place if we could ask the questions?



	S:	I think that it’s almost a hundred years old. We’re in the historic district, but there’s only this house and one other across the lake that is actually verified. It has lots of memories because there have been two families that I knew who lived





here—one was our family, who was here forty-six years before Ben and I moved in after his grandparents died. But there was a couple who lived here and he was a doctor. Of course, back then, lots of them had space and home, and this room that’s over to the side, which I call my library—there’s only two things I ever wanted in my life, that was a piano and a library cause I love books and I love music—but that room was interesting because it was what was called a breezeway and it connected to the carport. He decided to enclose it and make that into his office space. He hand-picked every piece of wood that went in it ‘cause he loved wood. He left; and when he got back they had painted it. And he was devastated. He told me this story—he’s been gone now a long time—but it was a good story about his pride and joy of an office and what happened to it.

But over the years it housed some wonderful happy times. The Douglass family lived here. George Douglass was the mayor of Lake City for many years. His father, Dave Douglass, was the sheriff and then later Public Service Commissioner, who died on the side of the road coming back from Tallahassee.

	W:	Now these are your in-laws?



	S:	Right, right. Just really wonderful people that had an impact on the community and we had lots of fun times in the house. So when they were gone, my son was young, he said, I don’t want anybody living in Grandma and Granddaddy’s house. So we bought the house from the estate and moved in and started twenty-five years of renovations to really bring it back to what it had been, because over time—I think one of the funniest things was the upstairs. There’s a fireplace in the master bedroom, and it was covered over and everything was





paneled, so I wanted to take all that down and put it back to the original. So when the fireplace cleaner came—black-hat person—he said, “If I were you, I would go outside and close the door, because sometimes when you open this up things come out.” I remember standing there wondering what was gonna come out. The interesting thing was the last fire—it had been, probably a coal fire—everything was still in there—the poker, all the tools, everything was inside. But it is a working fireplace and I use it frequently to build a fire; and this one is a gas log.

What else can I say? I love my house. There’s nothing in it that’s new except these two sofas, out of sheer necessity. Everything else has a meaning. It belonged to a family member or—there’s just nothing new. In fact, my mother pointed out that the light I use for my piano was the one I read under as a child. I asked her if I could have it ‘cause I found it out, you know, stuck in the back of the store room. She said, “What do you want with that?” I said, “Well, I’m gonna re-do it.” She said, “You could buy one cheaper than you can re-do this.” I said, “Yeah, but it wouldn’t be the same lamp.” It has the kind where you step on the little button at the bottom and this light comes on. I can remember being so fascinated as a child. I’d sit there and turn it on and turn it off ‘cause it had this neat little light that’d be like a nightlight. So, everything is old. It means a lot.

	W:	So the two things you wanted—you have your library to the right, you have your piano to the left—and then you have Huckleberry here on the couch with you.

	S:	I am an animal lover. I was known as the cat lady for years. I’ve always had animals. I love them.





	W:	What is a special memory of any room in the house that you’d care to share with us?

	S:	It’d have to be my library. That is special because it’s a place I love to sit and read. It’s like having a little cocoon. It’s just a place that makes me feel good, I think because I’m surrounded by the books. After my husband, Pete, died—he had tons of books—I had books everywhere. My son’s a real historian, so I took the books and boxed up the ones I knew Ben would like because he also has a library. I was so lost. I still have lots of books, but I don’t part with books very easily. And so they took probably twenty boxes of books, and I told him, “When you go through, if there’s anything that you don’t want, you bring it back and I’ll put it on the shelf or on the floor or somewhere.” Because it’s just being surrounded by words and lives and people and it’s a wonderful feeling. Love that.

W:  In this room there’s so much history. Just on the wall behind you, you have some pictures of some incredible Florida leaders. Would you care to maybe select one of those photos and talk a little about its place in this room?

	S:	I would probably have to pick Bob Graham because he was quite instrumental in—you learn so much as you go through life from the people that come into your life and you get experience and knowledge. His organization was fabulous. As a senator, he served with Pete. He was outstanding. As Governor he made strides that were so needed at the time he was there. To refer back to the fact that minorities had a very important role in his organization, in his plan. For those who serve on boards, for the appointments that he made. That had to be difficult for him, because in communities that were being changed by the results of what he





was trying to do, which was to give everyone a voice—as I realize now, when you have sixty-seven counties, some large, some very small. So making these changes and saying we will have a diverse board, whether it be hospital or community college or housing, that that’s the way it’s going to be. Those changes were not always easy. He always expected first of all that, and I’ve found this to be true that I always try to communicate to someone exactly the way things are. If I have a prejudice, I’ll tell you. It’s important to make sure they have the facts because a leader who puts themselves in the position to make a decision has to have all the facts so that it can be a good decision. So, the good, the bad, and the ugly they need to know. He always stood up for the right thing, at least in my experience working with him on his decision-making. His wife was extremely wonderful and started the volunteer program in the state. In fact I invited her to come to Colombia County as the first stop to launch the idea of volunteering in the school system. So she was really instrumental in getting that started. Now we have a full-time person who does this all day, every day. Back then it was just an idea started out with just a little part-time work but it just grew into all kinds of wonderful things and involving many people as a part of the school system who never would have been. I see all those good things that they started.

	W:	How many leaders in our state do you think have actually visited here in this home?

	S:	In this home? Oh, that’s a good one. You know, I’ve never thought about that. I would have to think. Oh, many going way back, because Douglasses were very, very active. Governor Cone lived just down the street, so they were surrounded





by the political world from early years. And I would say that if you were running for office, you probably, at some point, came through. So that’s a good thing. And one of the important things, I hear so frequently, you mention the word politics and the response is, “Oh, I don’t wanna talk about politics. I don’t want anything to do with it.” I think about a statement that Pete Skinner would say. He’d say, “Hm, you have milk in your refrigerator?” Then they said, “Well, yes.” He said, “There’s nothing more political than the Dairymen Association.” You have electricity? Flippin’ a switch? Nothing more political than that. When you go to sleep at night, do you use a pillow? Ever look at the little tag on the side “Do not remove under penalty of law”? There’s nothing you can do that does not impact the world in the political arena. You can either be a part of keeping things the way you like them, or if you don’t like it be part of the way to change it. It’s a necessary part of our lives to be informed. That’s our responsibility. I often say, I don’t want someone to tell me what to think. I want someone to give me the facts and then let me decide how I think about it and what I think. But I have to have the facts first.

	W:	Well now, you’ve brought your late husband up. Could you talk about Pete Skinner for just a little bit?

	S:	Absolutely, very interesting person. He was born in Live Oak in Suwannee County. Grew up on a farm, driving a tractor. The only reading material--his mom worked at a grocery store, which her brother owned, and his dad was a butcher and they drove a truck down to Miami and distributed meat. Pete would drive a tractor. They didn’t have a lot of money, so they managed to scrape up enough





to manage to buy a set of encyclopedias. Every night—he was the youngest— well, later on there was a tail-end that came after him—but he had two older sisters and then he was the only boy. So the daily routine was to sit in the kitchen and talk to his sisters and they would read the encyclopedias. So he learned everything about whatever was in the encyclopedia because that was his source of knowledge. When he went to school, as a first-grader he wasn’t big into the reading thing, but he loved to play and he was very popular. His friends called him Sherl. He was very athletic, so they always wanted him on their side cause he was good at it. One day his little teacher said, “Sherl, I’m sorry but from now on you’re gonna have to stay in during recess.” “Why is that?” “Well, because you need to learn to read, and until you learn, we’ll stay in and practice every day.” He said, “Well, nobody ever said it was that important.” [Laughter] So, within a week, he was reading beautifully and out playing again. That was always his attitude. He just had to understand, is it really important? He was very athletic in high school so he got a college scholarship to go to Florida State. That was an interesting story in itself. He came home, did not take the scholarship—he got hurt—anyway, he came home. And a relative said, “Well, I’m gonna see if I can get you a job down to the local gas station.” He wasn’t real big into that idea. So his brother-in-law, who was an attorney, said, “Pete, there’s a new program that the president is just really behind.” Of course, this was Kennedy. “It’s the Peace Corps, and I think you ought to consider that.” That was how he became a member of the Peace Corps, and also the Marine Corps. He could do it either way. It was just interesting because he had a lot of interests. He loved people.





The way he chose India was, he took a world globe and he put his finger on Live Oak and he said, “I wanna go so far away that I’m gonna be coming back.” He went all the way around and put his finger halfway around. He looked and it was India. So that’s how he chose where he wanted to go. After doing his stint in India, he was an agricultural specialist. All of the people who went were basically the Harvard, Yale, old-time families. So here comes this guy from Live Oak, and had a southern accent which was, if you speak Southern, slow, you must be slow, so you had to work through that. Had to learn the language, which he did. They sent them to Kentucky, to a school there, and he had to learn to speak the language before he went. His cohorts were getting ready for this trip by learning to cut out meat and all the things they wouldn’t have. They made the comment to him that, you know, you’re still eating meat. You’re eating hamburgers and steak and chicken. We’re over here eating pasta and whatever cause we gotta get used to what we’re gonna be doing in India. He said, “Man, I’m gonna eat meat until I get off the plane.” Because I don’t have to practice how to be a vegetarian; it’s just the way it is. He did receive the National Service Award to India, Indira Gandhi award, presented by the ambassador for his concepts of how to raise crops and how to irri—the irrigation was the super problem—and using the idea of co-ops and how to buy a tractor because it would take them forever to try to get things level. He did a lot of wonderful things that are still there. I’m sorry I missed the chance to go and see that because we had always planned to make a trip to India so we could see that. But anyway, he came back and lived in Jamaica as a Foreign Service Officer. Put 5,000 people in the Peace Corps as a





recruiter, going to all the universities. During the very traumatic time, ‘cause this was during the war years and he was a Vietnam vet too—a lot of kids went because that was a better alternative than serving in the war. So a lot of kids went. He wanted to make an impact and run for the legislature, which he did.

Served in the House and in the Senate, became Senate Majority Leader and made quite an impact. Especially in a rural area such as this, health care was an issue. The Midwifery Bill was extremely important because so many people have children at home, but they don’t have access to healthcare. Having that opportunity to have those who are trying to at least be able to assist was really important. Another was the Suwannee Valley Transit, because transportation is a super-big issue. It was very difficult to explain to people who live in urban areas that you can’t take a taxi or the bus or whatever, because it doesn’t exist, and to provide those methods of transportation. There were some wonderful things that came out of that. The neo-natal unit in Gainesville was his pride and joy also. He always had the people, and where they are, funding on education, Green Belt makes a huge difference when people have to travel 20, 30 miles to go to school because they need a busing system. They live on farms. These are not issues that most legislators are accustomed to dealing with. Had the largest district in the state, because it had twenty-eight counties. Some people have a city block and that’s their district, because of the population. It’s hard for them to understand. And trying to be in all the places that you need to be. Twenty-eight counties—that was a lot.





	W:	Being in all those counties and working so hard for people on all those issues, of course you’d have wanted to have the type of home environment, a place to come home to, that was comforting, re-energized. What was Pete Skinner like at home?

	S:	You know what? People used to say he was an energizer. He’d walk into a room and you just felt the energy. Someone asked me one time, “Does he always smile?” He had a beautiful smile. I said from the time he got up in the morning— and he liked to get up early—he was always in a good mood. Very dedicated.

Read everything he could get his hands on—quite a reader. Being at home with him was usually crisis management. I had a friend who told me one time, when I get bored, “I just come to ya’ll’s house because there’s always a crisis.” Somebody, somewhere was in crisis and Pete was on the phone. There was an article in the Gainesville Sun, shows him—we’re sitting at the kitchen table, that was the office—with the telephone and his notepad. I learned a long time ago, don’t throw away a little piece of paper, it might have the United States’ President’s cell phone number on it. You know, you just see a piece of paper and throw it away. So I had a box that I put every piece of paper in because he was not Bob Graham with the little green notebook. His was like, “Oh, here, I got a little piece of tissue here, let’s write that number down.” It was constant. As somebody said, “Gee Pete, you are high maintenance.” He said, “Yeah, but I’m user-friendly.” He was a very positive person. It’s interesting because he got his degree from the University of Florida in political science and then went to the





University of Georgia Valdosta State and got his Master’s in history cause that was his absolute love.

	W:	Terrific. Well, it’s been so nice to share this hour with you, and there are so many more questions that I have. I’d love to have a chance to perhaps come back and speak with you again.

	S:	I would love to have you. Please do. W:	Thanks very much.

	S:	You’re welcome. [End of interview]





	Audit edited by:	Anna Jimenez, July 11, 2013. Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 16, 2019