AAHP 296; Jones; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 296 Pearline Jones African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Marna Weston on March 5, 2013 40 minutes | 23 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 296

Interviewee: Pearline Jones Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: March 5, 2013



	W:	This is March 5.



	J:	My name is Pearline Jones.



	W:	Do you have a middle name or is it just Pearline Jones? J:	Just Pearline.

	W:	Pearline Jones? Okay, and when and where were you born?



	J:	I was born in Jackson County. I was born on September 8, 1943. W:	Were you born in a hospital or were you born at home?

	J:	I was born at home.



	W:	Where was that home located? Where you were born? J:	It was in Jackson County kind of near Cedar I think.

	W:	Who are your mother and father?



	J:	My mother, her name was Amy Walker. My father was named Lou Walker. W:	Can you say their names again please?

	J:	Amy Walker, that’s my mother. Lou Walker, that’s my father. W:	And where were they from?

	J:	They was from Jackson County and they was originally in Jacob. I’m from Jacob, my grandparent had a home by there.

	W:	Okay, where is Jacob located from here? I’m not from Jackson County so I’m not as familiar.

	J:	It’s just right across over there and you’re not walking here. It’s in Jackson County. About five or six miles from here. Northwest.

	W:	On your mother’s side, who were her mother and father?







J:

Her mother was named Dessie Holland and her father was named Sam Holland.

W:

Where were they from?

J:

They was from Jackson County.

W:

On your dad’s side, who were his mother and father and where were they from?

J:

His mother was named Loretta Walker and his father was named Will Walker,



they was from Jacob. Just whatever land back down there.

W:

Do you know much of your family’s past there? For example, who their—

J:

No.

W:

Okay, so do you have children?

J:

Sure.

W:

Could you mention them from oldest to youngest please?

J:

My oldest one is Charles Jones, my next one is Jacqueline Jones, Albert Jones,



Sam Jones, and Robert, Edgar. That’s it.

W:

Are you married?

J:

Sure.

W:

And who is your husband?

J:

Earl Jones.

W:

Where is he from?

J:

He’s from Gordon, Alabama.

W:

Gordon?

J:

Uh-huh.

W:

Do you know what county that’s in? Just asking in passing.

J:

I don’t know the county.





	W:	Do you know who his parents were?



	J:	His mother was named Mrs. Jones and his father was named Erwin Jones. W:	Growing up, what kind of things did you do at home with your brothers and sisters? Did you have chores? Did you have a big family? Did you have big

family meals together? Describe your whole life please.



	J:	Well yes, coming up we had chores and we had big family meals together and we had lots of chores but we had to work in the field as well.

	W:	Would you say work in the field—pretend for example that I would know and tell me what some of your duties might be.

	J:	Some of those duties was we when had cotton that had to be picked, the whole peanuts, we’d have stack peanuts, corn, peas—

	W:	Any tobacco?



	J:	No, we didn’t do tobacco. W:	Okay.

	J:	Tomatoes.



	W:	Did you always have spring and a fall garden?



	J:	Well back then we just had one when it went through the spring and you couldn’t have a winter because it was dry and cold. You only could do warm.

	W:	Did you have domesticated animals? Did you have mules and cows, chicken, hogs?

	J:	We had hogs. W:	You had hogs?

	J:	And we had some chickens.





	W:	Did you also have smokehouse? To slaughter the hogs. J:	Oh yeah.

	W:	Did your family work together with other families in the area to do its work in the fields or did you kind of work on your own? When it’s harvest time or when it was slaughter time? Was it a community thing or just you and your family?

	J:	No, it was just us. My dad always kinda worked along. W:	How close were your closest neighbors?

	J:	It wasn’t real close. I can’t say how close they were but they wasn’t a housing. W:	Okay so you would have to find somebody if something went off?

	J:	Yeah.



	W:	Okay, your earliest education. The first time you formally were in a classroom or were taught anything by a teacher, what was the name of that school?

	J:	At that time, they just had a school in the church and they called it Smithville. We moved from Smithville after Daddy moved then we started going to a school called Madrid Alabama.

	W:	Okay they Smithfield school, how many grades was that?



	J:	I don’t remember, this was a whole community that everybody was in. So I don’t remember.

	W:	It was a one-room schoolhouse? J:	Uh-huh.

	W:	Was it on the Florida side or was it on the Alabama side? J:	Alabama side.

	W:	Was the town that it was close to called Smithville?





	J:	No, it was just a community. The closest town to that was Dothan, Alabama. W:	And do you remember what the church, what the name of the church was? J:	It was Smithville Church.

	W:	Do you remember who the teacher in charge was? J:	Oh no, way back then I couldn’t remember.

	W:	What kinds of things did you do in school? Did you have to help bring in wood or water or anything like that? Were there chores for school?

	J:	No, just get your lesson.



	W:	Do you remember anything about how the school looked like? Can you describe what the school looked like?

	J:	Well, it was just a wooden building. It had benches and stuff in there. It was un- painted. I remember that.

	W:	Was there a wood floor? J:	It was a wood floor.

	W:	Was there a stove? J:	No.

	W:	I mean, like a heater. A fireplace to keep it warm when it was cold. J:	To be honest with you, I don’t remember that.

	W:	Okay. And how did you get to school? Did you walk or were you driven and how far do you have to walk to get there?

	J:	Well, I would say that we walked about two miles. W:	How long would it take you to get there?

	J:	I really don’t know that.







W:

Did your brothers and sister go with you?

J:

Oh yeah.

W:

So you went to school together, you came back from school together. Would you



go rain or shine?

J:

If it rained, we didn’t go.

W:

So when you left Smithville, where did you go for your education after that?

J:

We moved near the state line and we went to Madrid, Alabama.

W:

How close is that to here?

J:

It’s between here and Dothan. It’s just outside the state line.

X:

About twelve, fifteen miles.

W:

Okay and what grades did you go to there?

J:

I went to the fifth grade there.

W:

And do you remember who the principal of the school was?

J:

No, I can’t remember that.

W:

Do you remember your favorite teacher or subject that you had that you really



liked there?

J:

My teacher’s name was Miss Dixon, I remember her.

W:

What is it about Miss Dixon that you remember so well after all these years?

J:

Well, she was a pretty nice teacher and she was helpful, I remember that.

W:

Did her work inspire you to continue to learn and to get your lesson and things



like that?

J:

Yeah she did. She was about that.

W:

Was there another teacher at the school or she was the only one?





	J:	There was other teacher there, but Miss Fisher, I remember her—but she wasn’t my teacher.

	W:	Okay, what do you remember about Miss Fisher?



	J:	Well, I never had her as my teacher or anything. I just remember her from there. W:	And any other teachers that you might remember something about them?

	J:	No, I don’t remember them.



	W:	When you left fifth grade, that school, where did you go next?



	J:	Well, at that point in time, things took with my parents. So they really couldn’t educate us like we should have and as I got grown, then I went to another school.

	W:	So there was some time in between where you just helped the family and worked and things like that?

	J:	Yeah, we had to farm because they didn’t had financial help like they have today so we had to get out and scope. We had a big family. My mother was a mother of eighteen, so all of them didn’t, we only had twelve of ‘em but my dad had to make it the best he could because we kept helping, you know, making money just for all of us.

	W:	Where did you fall in that group of eighteen? In the middle or closer to the top? J:	I was kind of in the middle.

	W:	Can you list all of your brothers and sisters? J:	Yes.

	W:	Start at the bottom?





	J:	Yes. My oldest sister was Desame, her name was Desame, and my next sister was named Catherine, and I have an older brother named L.W., then Cheryl Lynn, Alma. Then I come in between there, and then we had Herbert, Dale, Barbara Jean, Richard, Ravina. Those were the ones that lived.

	W:	Can you say that last one again? J:	Ravina.

	W:	And what did L.W. stand for?



	J:	Luke. It was just the initial Momma gave him, it was stupid we called him Luke.



W:  You mentioned the ones that lived, I’m very sorry to hear that. Just want to ask a little bit more to understand. Did the brother and sisters who did not live, did they die in childbirth or their illnesses along the way?

	J:	Well, we had one that died from—choked to death. We had one—my momma had a set of twins, we lost those. Can’t remember what happened. We had one to get struck by lightning, just different things happened and some of them were born dead.

	W:	Was your brother or sister who was struck by lightning? J:	Sister.

	W:	Had she gone off somewhere by herself or was she alone or were you all around when that happened?

	J:	She was alone with her daughter they went fishing. W:	Her daughter?

	J:	Both of them were killed.



	W:	Both of them were killed, so very sorry. That’s been a lot time ago?





	J:	Yeah.



	W:	So when you went back to school, you know after things worked out and you were much older. Were you still in your teens or were you in your twenties?

	J:	No, I was in my thirties.



	W:	Okay, so before we talk about that part of your education, were you into farming before you went back to school?

	J:	I had, not really altogether because I was working at a factory. When the factory closed, they give us an opportunity to go to school. I found a job so I chose school.

	W:	What was the name of the factory? J:	Vanity Fair.

	W:	And they paid for this? J:	Yes.

	W:	Oh okay, that’s not the kind of deal you get today. So how did that come about? Just the owner said that was the right thing to do to help you all get your next leg up.

	J:	Yes, because they was closing down and they felt like they owed it to us I guess.



	W:	How long had you worked there when you got that news that they were gonna close?

	J:	About a year.



W:  So you decided to go back to school. Was it because you went back to school that then you got involved in farming? How did the schooling and farming work together?





	J:	Schooling and farming really didn’t work together at that time. I went back just to pick up a trade to do something aside from farm. Because we was raised upon a farm and I thought I would wanna get away from the farm. I had my own garden during the time and I went to school for culinary art. I got my certificate in culinary art and well, I still have my farm at home, like a garden at home. So I didn’t get away from that too long at a time, with my garden. I grew like peas and other things, and corn, tomatoes, squash, and stuff like that.

	W:	How big a plot were you raising vegetables on? J:	I think about an acre.

	W:	And were you getting enough to live during the year and to sell things off or was it just your garden?

	J:	Yeah.



	W:	And you were trading with other farmers?



	J:	I had people’s buying peas. I was just planning on selling half and half for my family and my son and I would help him.

	W:	You mentioned the peas in the video I saw too. That kind of comes to the question, how do you get involved in farming enough to be able to make more than just a subsistence living and wanna do it to continue to do it all the time. How did that happen?

	J:	Well, let’s put it this way. I saw a lead where I could make more money and yet be able to take care of myself. This was vegetables and I can know what’s in my garden, and then I saw before I could branch out and make more money. That’s the thing about it, was money.





	W:	But I mean, is how did you found out about? Did you go to a workshop, or did you bump into somebody? How did you hear about the opportunity?

	J:	To make more money? W:	Yes, ma’am.

	J:	I was able through another place that was for that. Number one, lets back up a little bit. When I had collards, I would cut down stems and I would take them to my hogs so I could feed them. One day when I was out of a job, I was just riding and Glyen come through that and I really didn’t know him. I was looking for a job and he gave me an opportunity. I was something that I was familiar with, you know, farming so it just fell in gap.

W:  So what did he tell you about the opportunity that made it seem so attractive to take a chance and be involved? Because you could have just done something else and say, “I don’t know about that.” So why did you move forward?

	J:	It just gave me an opportunity to work. And then you know, I what I was doing was what I liked to do and I just decided it was something and make what I could make out of it and I saw an opportunity that I could make extra money in doing so.

	W:	So did it start out as a little bit of a difference or was it a significant enough difference in money you said, “Oh I’m gonna keep doing this?”

	J:	Well, it was a little bit of a difference because when I got here, I got enough home to do with gardening. I planted every year and I did that for a long time. I would work there, go home and pick my peas and clean them out. Deliver them to my customers and come back and work here. Well, after so long Glyen was





telling us—because he was holding classes—how we could do this and make more money. It took a little far for me to really see what he was getting at, but I decided then to just try and change my peas and then do greens. I saw a better opportunity where I could move more of my product because the peas was just, at that time I could only do one crop of peas. But after I really started to branch out I saw I could do more than just a summer garden.

	W:	You’ve described a life where you’ve always worked. Even where sometimes going to school had to move to the sides so that you could work and help your family, help yourself. What is it about work and contributing in that way that makes you happy and gives you satisfaction as a person to work in a garden and with plants?

	J:	Well, you have to work to live. The good book says you don’t work, you don’t eat. My daddy raised us up to work and it’s just how our family’s placed. I enjoy what I’m doing, I enjoy the people around and it’s just all came to fit in.

	W:	Are you satisfied with the quality of the food product that you raise with the sweat of your work? How do you feel about knowing the things you grow? It’s transported places, people eat them, people get satisfaction from them. What does that do for you, how you feel about yourself about what you do?

	J:	Well me myself, I pretty much know what I put out there and I don’t like feeding people something that I don’t like. It’s not good for me. I feel good, I like quality. When I plant something, I make sure it’s appetizing and it makes me feel good knowing that I’m a hard worker.





	W:	This quality aspect that you’re talking about, what is it that you do that ensures quality in the food that you raise?

	J:	Well what I do, I make sure that the bugs don’t get bad, or the worms. And I make sure that I give them the right nutrients to help with the growth and I make sure it’s clean and look good because if it don’t look good then I don’t let nobody have it.

	W:	Have you gained a greater sense of independence or self-worth for working as a farmer and making food for other people? Do you feel more independent as a person?

	J:	Sure I do because I feel like I can get it. If I raise it, it saves me money on the store and then I pretty much, like I said, I pretty much know what to send. And if you don’t, you go to the store it costs so little it’s so great. It was family, we loved to have plenty of food for my family and that was the way to do it.

	W:	And they also eat the vegetables that you grew. How long do you see yourself doing this? Do you plan to continue to farm? If so, how long in the future do you plan on doing it?

	J:	As long as I’m able to go.



	W:	So you already got your set for this year coming? Have you shared this opportunity with anybody else? A friend or a neighbor like, “Hey why don’t you get involved in what I’m involved with?

	J:	I try.



	W:	And how do you go—how do you approach somebody to share your experience to try to get them to do the same thing?





	J:	Well, I tell them it could help them sell, they could actually benefit by making a little bit more money working for themselves than working for somebody else. You could work and then have your own and you can make money that way, too.

	W:	How many acres do you currently farm?



	J:	I only have right now like three-quarters of an acre. W:	Yeah but that works for you.

	J:	Oh yeah.



	W:	Now, some thoughts you might have from taking your notes over there? [New interviewer steps in]

	X:	Yeah, I wanted to know what was your relationship or thoughts about food when you were growing up? I know you said how important food is to you and to serve people. And you were growing up, I know you said eighteen. Can you tell me what kind of food you grew up and what you like to eat as a little girl?

	J:	When I was a little girl, we were never choice-y about what mamma would prepare for us but one thing I didn’t like was string beans at that time. I hated string beans. I would eat the grains of the peas and butter beans but I couldn’t tell my mom I didn’t like the string beans. I just ate what I could but I hated them things but now I love them. I like tomatoes, we would always put a bottle of tomatoes for the winter—

	X:	How did you put them out? Did you can them?



	J:	Uh-huh. We would can them. Momma would cook them, put them in a jar, and have them for the winter. To make soup or whatever.

	X:	What else did you like?





	J:	Well, most all of the vegetables. I loved the vegetables, but I just couldn’t stand them string beans. That’s the only one I didn’t like, was the string beans. So pretty much everything else.

	X:	So when you were cooking for your own family, did you cook similar foods that you grew up on?

	J:	Uh-huh.



	X:	Except for those string beans?



	J:	Yeah but I started cooking string beans for my family. X:	Oh, is that when you started to like them?

	J:	Yeah, that’s when I started to like them. Maybe I fixed them a little different or something. I don’t know, just string beans in my younger days I just, we had so much of them, we worked in so much of them. And I had to bend down and get them and I guess turned me away from them too. But yes, I cook them for my family and I love them. I found out that they are very good for you. String beans are very good for you.

	X:	Have you asked if she has children?



	W:	We didn’t talk about that, but I’m curious about your health, you seem very spry, you had a car and came over here. Have you mostly been healthy for most of your life and do you think that your diet contributed to that a little bit or has there been times that you haven’t been as healthy?

	J:	Well, there have been times that I have not been as healthy, you know, but really and truly I feel better in my older days than I did when I was coming in my younger because I was kind of sickly from having children and stuff like that.





After I got grown on my own, I didn’t eat as healthy as I did when I was home. You get to eating different little stuff and not really stand with the vegetable, but I see when I do so I have changed my appetite.

W:  Okay. So over time, you’ve taken on more of a healthy diet because of the work that you do as well. Do you think that that’s helped contribute to being healthier over the years or maybe not being sick?

J:   I think so, I think so. They have a lot to do with what you eat, has a lot to do with you.

W:   Why do you say that?



	J:	Because most of the day, businesspeople don’t want to cook home. They like the fast food, eat out or something like that. If you cook your own, it’s more nutritious, you try to stay. A lot of them go get the hamburgers and stuff like that, that’s not really good.

	W:	When you work in the farm, do you take most of your ideas of how to raise a healthy, nutritious, and profitable crop from magazines like that the people give you? Or from the almanac or from signs. What is your philosophy of how to know what the best way to be a good farmer is? Where do you take your ideas and motivation from? Like knowing when to plant? Knowing when to pull it in.

	J:	Knowing when to plant? Well, I always notice but then I’ve learned there’s a time—and going back to this, I know in the good book it says the time of the season of all things. There’s a time that you plant, and there’s a time that you don’t plant to get your best yield. And there’s a time in planting peas, and I didn’t





know it until we did it; that you plant on flower days and it’ll bloom and bloom but you don’t get but one mess of peas. It’ll keep blooming.

	W:	What do you mean by flower days? How do you know what a flower day is? J:	Well, if you look at an almanac it’ll tell you.

	W:	So you do look in the almanac. J:	Sure.

	W:	Also, do you ever pray on wind to do this kind of things? Are you a spiritual person in that kind of way that you would just pray for God for the best time to plan or do these things?

J:  Sure, you have to have that moment, and get that knowledge. Because I was not always paying attention. I just thought that some point in time, put it in the ground and it will grow, it won’t work like that.

	W:	Now, not everybody would agree or think the same way so why do you think that the Lord would give you knowledge of when to grow the proper plant in season and be able to do the things the right way?

	J:	Well, I believe that when I go to Him and ask Him for guidance, that He’ll do it. And then he will give me knowledge and look in the book and see—let me tell you about that. There is a time that you till your garden, there’s a time that you ‘em up. Sweet potato, if you don’t take ‘em at the wrong time, they’ll rot quickly and if you take them at the right time, they’ll heal quickly. There is just a time, there is a time season in a lot of things. A time you plant your turnips, they’ll grow good, there’s a time you plant your caul, they’ll grow good. If you don’t—sweet potatoes because sometimes you plant and can’t get it.





	W:	Do you believe that all of that is knowledge that could be inspired from on high to do the best thing to do to live your life right at all and all goes together?

	J:	Uh-huh.



	W:	Do you have a church or ministry that you attend regularly or ministries? J:	Sure, I have one I attend.

	W:	Do you mind sharing which one that is?



	J:	Well, I attend a church on Caverns Road.



	W:	And what is it that drew you to that particular congregation?



	J:	I really can’t say, it’s been so long. I can’t say exactly what drew me.



	W:	Do you think maybe certain people attending or a calling or leadership from the ministry or is it just that you visited and you felt like that was home?

	J:	Well, I really wanted to go in there because of friends.



	W:	Okay, no problem. Well, let me ask you a different question. I was asking you these questions to move up to the point of leadership or people you admire or where you find guidance for doing things. What is your definition of a leader? Who is a leader and what are their characteristics?

	J:	You mean a leader of our church?



	W:	Church or in society, just somebody—how do you determine who is a leader? J:	Well, lets just turn it to this question. We turn it to this place right there.

	W:	Okay let’s use this place.



	J:	I look at Glyen at leader. He is a great leader. He looks out for us, that’s what a leader does. Looks out for welfare and if he can help you to do some more,





whatever you need help, you can go to him. That’s a leader and he can point you to the right direction pretty much. He’s come countless times to our help.

	X:	Ma’am may I ask, do your children like to cook? Did you show them the farm?



	J:	Well, my oldest son, he farms. He has a plot and he’s not a gatherer. He’s too tired to get it and gather. He said, “Momma, I planted, I plied but y’all gotta gather.” That’s Charles.

	X:	What about your other children? J:	No, they’re not farmers.

	X:	They know how to cook? J:	Yeah, uh-huh.

	X:	And they cook the same food as you raised them on?



	J:	Sure. They kind of detoured along the line but they fall back into the bedroom.



They know they got their own bedroom.



	X:	Does Charles work with you here? J:	Uh-huh.

	W:	Do any of your other children work with you in the cooperative?



	J:	I have a grandson that worked with me here. Then my daughter works sometimes in the summer because there’s a lot here to do. I have two daughters that work part-time here.

	W:	I’d like to talk specifically for your grandson that works here. Do you see a future for either your children or your grandson, in particular, in farming?

	J:	Well yes. He likes to garden and farm.





	W:	But I mean, in the years to come as a subject that he should look to develop land, to be involved in all the things—

	J:	I can see that in him.



	W:	Okay, why would you want that for him?



	J:	I could see it in him, by talking with him I can kind of see his mind and how it goes. He’s kind of thinking about getting land and planting stuff. I can see that kind of in him.

	W:	So many Black families and Black farmhouses have stopped farming, have left the land, or have lost their land. What are your hopes for your grandson? If he takes the stuff that you see in him. Say, thirty years from now you want to see him being involved in farming?

	J:	I would like to see him into farming, because a lot of people get rid of farming. That’s kind of a backbone, farming, and my way of seeing things is he would have something he could fall back to.

	W:	So as a backbone, you mean—



	J:	Like me. Working public work is working out. I mean, jobs are very scarce these days. You’re fine in farm work, a lot of people don’t want to do farm work. So that’s a job that you can do.

	W:	Steady job.



	J:	Yes, yes.



	W:	So many, in general, African American people that move away from farming.



They wouldn’t want their children to get involved and their grandchildren to look at a career in farming. What is it that you think are the values or the advantages





of your grandson to continue to learn more and to be involved? Why would that be of a benefit to him?

	J:	Well, he’s got a family, number one. And by him doing farm work, he can get some experience from me, while the Lord leaves me here that would help him to learn farming and help his kids to learn that’s coming up. The kids are not the one informed because my kids do what I do. That’s what they need to teach them.

	W:	So you think there is a benefit to doing this. In what ways does this benefit like help the family to grow, or get people stability or peace of mind? What are those advantages? You said it was something for his family—

	J:	Exactly. Teach him to work. Teach them to work with their hands and learn how to do these things with their hands. They’re just taking too much away from the kids by not learning farming. Number one, as I said, you could be able to grow your own food and perhaps you could learn enough to help provide food for somebody else. If you don’t learn them now, see my dad they learned us farming and I’m proud of them because now I don’t mind hitting the field. I do whatever. I enjoy it. And that’s why I can see in him, he’ll come out and help me no matter when I call him, he’ll come help me and stay right there. I’m hoping and praying that we could do our farms this year together so I can really show him some things.

	X:	You talked about all the benefits that you can get from farming, what do you think about the work that you’re doing with Glyen and farmers with the schools?





	J:	I think it’s a great thing because we are able to produce food for the kids, give them healthy food and not that frozen stuff, stuff that has been put up for a long time. They’re able to get fresh vegetables so that will make them more healthy.

	W:	So you believe this is a big thing, you have it all tied together. It helps little families, it helps your grandson, teaches them how to work those healthier meals for the kids in schools. Is there anything that is bad about it?

	J:	I can’t pinpoint something that’s bad about it.



	W:	What about getting up early in the morning, working sunup to sundown? J:	I don’t mind it.

	W:	Are their times that you worked when the moon is real bright, if you get a little extra time? Do you work at night too?

	J:	I have. I have worked right here, went home, cooked my dinner dark. I was proud of it.

	W:	Because it was bright enough.



	J:	Well, it might have not been bright enough but I have a light that was bright enough.

	W:	You weren’t scared to be out there?



	J:	No, me and my husband. I had—you seen them headlights. I cooked greens and had them ready to come back the next morning. Woke up early and bright.

	W:	You did say you were proud of it.



	X:	Do you think that some of the kids that you help them at the schools, they might help them to get interested in farming and agriculture and eating healthy things?





	J:	I really don’t know how they feel about it but it would help them to know about it. I really would because a lot of kids don’t even what’s benefiting them to eat. They eat a lot of junk and that’s why they’re sick. They don’t eat the right thing.

	W:	Well, I just wanted to thank Miss Pearline for the time that you spent talking to us.



This has been very beneficial and fortunately very helpful for our study. And we will get you a copy of this so you can hear it too. During Christmas time, you might want to hear what you talked about as the great gifts. On behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program and my colleague and I thank you and give you the opportunity for final privilege. If there’s something that you’d like to say, maybe something that happened in the interview, or something that you want to talk about. Whatever it is, this will be our last time speaking and when you finish saying what you have to say, that will conclude our interview. Thanks.

	X:	Is there anything else that you’d like to add or say? J:	No.

	X:	Thank you so much for talking to us.



	W:	Thank you, we appreciate it very much. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Anna Jiménez



	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, March 26, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 23, 2019