AAHP 394; Shepherd; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 394 Vivian Shepherd African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Diedre Houchen on June 21, 2016 1 hour, 15 minutes | 31 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 394

Interviewee: Vivian Shepherd Interviewer: Diedre Houchen Date: June 21, 2016



	H:	So, this is June 21st, 2016. I’m Diedre Houchen, and I’m interviewing Miss Vivian Shepherd at the Cooper Memorial Library in Clermont, Florida. So, Ms.

Shepherd, thank you for coming today.



	S:	Oh, thank you.



	H:	So, where were you born—and when were you born? S:	I was born here, in Clermont, Florida, July 22nd, 1961.

	H:	Okay. Where—were you born in a hospital, were you—?



	S:	Yes, actually, I was born in Clermont Hospital, here. Here in Clermont.



	H:	So, tell me a little bit about your family growing up. Who did you live with, and what was life like as a child?

	S:	I lived with my father, James Shepherd, and my mother, Alleen. And growing up, my stepbrothers. I had two stepbrothers and two sisters. Actually, my—well, we never considered each other as “step,” so—and Edith, Harold, Junior—James Jr.—and my sister Irma. The Henrietta Irvin is the mother of Edith, Harold, and Junior. And also, we had a little small sister that died earlier in the years. She was hit by a truck. Her name was Maretta. They called her “Mimi.” She died, I think, probably like four months before I was born. And then, from my mother, it is Irma—we call her Jeannie—and then, it’s me, Vivian. So I’m the oldest.

	H:	Okay. So, we spoke with Miss Henrietta Irvin a little bit at the Groveland event, Devil in the Grove event, and we’re hoping to go down and talk with her. So, can you describe for me your—is it your father who is the brother of Samuel Shepherd?





	S:	That’s correct.



	H:	Okay. And, older brother or younger brother?



	S:	He was his older brother. Samuel’s older brother.



	H:	So—okay. Samuel Shepherd’s older brother. And he was married to Henrietta Irvin.

	S:	Correct.



	H:	And she is also sister—



	S:	She was sister to Walter Irvin.



	H:	Okay. Okay. So, that’s how the two families—



	S:	Yes, we connected. They—years ago, they lived in Groveland, the Bay Lake area, and from my understanding in Groveland there, the two, our two families were very good friends of one another. Then my dad married Henrietta. They started their own family. And my uncle Samuel and her—Henrietta’s—brother Walter were best friends. And so, they were both best friends. They went in the service together, and were overseas for several years, and then they returned back over into the United States, before all the horrific things, you know, had happened to them.

	H:	Did you go to Groveland ever as a child?



	S:	Yes, we did. We would travel, because even after Henrietta and my father had divorced, my dad was still very good friends with the family. We all—we had no problems. My mother, they took my mother in. We all just became family. And, so we would always go over to visit Henrietta and Walter’s mother, Ms. Dellia. As a child, I remember I was visiting on weekends over to her house. And also, my





dad’s—their sister. We would go over to their house. Again, we were just all family growing up.

	H:	What do you remember about their houses? I’m asking you to try to paint for me a picture of what Groveland looked like to you as a child.

	S:	Groveland was kind of like a one-horse town. It was very laid back, and it was a town that was basically full of, I want to say—Black people worked in the groves, and into farming. So, those were the type of things that were around there. The houses, especially in the Black community, they were not very nice-looking homes. And I think people just were surviving, trying to make it the best that they could. And as I remember Ms. Dellia’s home, it was right off of Highway 50. And I think it was kind of like a pale pink, or a white. But I remember the porch area, and you used to walk in, sometimes because of the heat, the door would be open, you know. But we were able to just go right on in and sit down, and just watch the grown-ups conversate. And sometimes, you know, as a child, you’re ready to go, so we would try to find things to keep ourselves sane, because we wanted to just leave and go home, you know. As kids, you just want to play. And so, after a moment there, we would just kind of like try to find things to do to keep our attention.

	H:	Didn’t—you said that, you mentioned the Black community in Groveland. Did it feel—was there a big Black community in Groveland? I mean, for those of us who just read the book, it’s hard to get a sense of—

	S:	Yeah, it was a large area. Some of them were spread out. But, that community is still much the same. There’s been some changes, of course, throughout the





years, but I still see things pretty much the same. It’s just this past year, since we were given the proclamation, that I’ve noticed some changes. And there are more changes on the outskirts, now. They’re building homes, and houses, townhouses, on the outskirts. But the inside of town still pretty much looks the same.

	H:	When you say it looks the same, my sense is that you are talking about there is some discrimination, some racial boundaries in the town?

	S:	Yeah, and I mean, I’ve heard—I’ve heard that there is still a lot of that going on in the community. Different, what I want to say? People owned—you know, of the White race—they owned houses there that the Blacks lived in. So, it kept them in a low-income state of mind. And low-income areas. So, not too many of the houses have changed. I don’t see them looking—I see people still living in those houses. People may have moved on, but the houses are still structured there, and I see people still living there.

	H:	Why did your father leave? So, your father was born in Groveland?



	S:	No, my father was born—actually, all of them came out of Fitzgerald, Georgia.



From what I heard, my grandfather had moved down here. My grandfather’s brother-in-laws were down here. There were other family members down in the Mascotte area. So, there’s a border line of Mascotte, and it’s an area that’s called “Stuckey. Stuckey Loop”, and Mascotte, and Groveland. And my grandfather had purchased this land back there in the Bay Lake area, which was supposed to be considered a “White” area. And what I was told, that he lived around a lot of White people. They didn’t like it, but he was sold swampy land, but he took that





land and cultivated it, and made his own produce—his farm, you know, he was farming. And that’s how he survived. So, he did not have to work in the orange groves.

H:   And what’s his name?



S:   His name was Henry Shepherd Sr.



	H:	Okay. So, Henry Shepherd Sr. was from this Bay Lake area. How, did then the family end up in Groveland?

	S:	Well, he purchased the land. He built on it. They lived there. At a particular time, my uncle was living there, but again, him and Walter Lee moved on and went into the service. And they went over into France. I think they spent a couple of years over there, and came back. And at this particular time, my grandfather was having problems with his neighbors, which are the Whites. And they did not like it, because—one thing, he was Black. Then, also, he owned his own business.

So, here, they would—you know, again, as records show—they would let their stock out and allow them to go over into my grandfather’s land and eat up his produce. You know, they just did some horrific, horrible things to them during that time. And as a Black man, you just didn’t get any help. And he would talk to the sheriff, ask the sheriff for help. But that was not given at that particular time. My grandfather ended up, again, just—when I think about all that, and, it’s a lot. You know, just imagine what they went through, trying to struggle. Because today, it’s totally different. Even though we see a lot of things that are going on in today’s system. It’s the same, but yet, they—it was much harder for them back then.

Especially as a Black man because of the lynchings and the different things that





happened. So, I just can only imagine. But, my granddad had that situation. Then, here comes the situation with Sheriff McCall that only added to the burden. And, with the Klansmen coming in and burning his house, taking and looting, burning the land, it took everything from them. They ended up in the groves.

They ended up a couple of days in the groves, hiding out to get away from the Klansmen. And so, with that, by the help of some employees, some White people—I don’t know who they were—but they helped them get over into Orlando. And they lived in Orlando for the rest of their lives. So, they lost their farm.

	H:	Wow. So, I didn’t know that part of the story at all, that the Klansmen came and burned up your grandfather’s groves after Samuel Shepherd was accused of this crime. Is that what—?

	S:	Yeah, when they found—when they thought that, it was said that he and Irvin had raped Norma Padgett, then the Klansmen came from all over, and they looted— again, they looted and burned down the house. They burned down everything.

And they ended up having to run for their lives. And they all split. From what I remember, they all split, and my dad and Henrietta and the kids went to Jacksonville. My other relatives went into Orlando. So, everybody was split off, and they were trying to wait until everything died down, because at that particular time, you had all the real Klansmen, and they were coming from everywhere.

And so, they were coming in, and a lot of people in the Mascotte area, Stuckey, Groveland area, they ran for their lives and never returned. So…





	H:	When you say “a lot of people,” do you mean a lot of people outside of your family? Like, this was—

	S:	Mmhm!



	H:	So, it was a thing for the entire Black community in those areas.



	S:	Yes. Groveland and Stuckey. I don’t know so much about Clermont, but I know the Groveland and Stuckey area was really bad. I mean, this story went all the way to the Supreme Court. The information just went all over into Germany and France area. It was very—one of those stories that were, where people just couldn’t believe that this had happened to a whole community of folks, because it was almost like a Rosewood situation. So, a lot of people ran off, you know, in fear of their lives, in hopes to not come back again. And so, my grandfather then, they choose not to come back—after their lives were threatened. My dad, their lives were threatened. Now, my dad did—I don’t know exactly when—but he did choose to come back to Clermont. And he stayed here, and I think because, too, he worked as a mechanic. He was, like, one of the first—I believe the first—Black mechanic down here in Clermont. There was an automotive place, a mechanic— he was a Black mechanic at a place called “Stalnaker Chevrolet.” So, he worked there for numerous years. And I think that they helped him, and you know, protected him in a lot of ways. Because, too, I always heard that if you were somebody like—what do you call the, like the babies—mothers—you know, when somebody’s having a baby, and you—

	H:	Midwife?





	S:	Midwife, yeah. Because they protected people like that. You know, if you were a midwife, if you were good at certain things, they protected those people, because they would help them.

	H:	They needed ‘em.



	S:	They needed ‘em! That’s correct. They needed them. So, you know, I believe that that was one favor that God just gave my dad, that he had—because he was an all-around type of gentleman, that he just knew how to fix anything. Pretty much anything. And that’s how my grandfather had raised all of his boys. So, I just believe that he desired to come back, and with that door that was opened, he decided he wanted to come back here. Because, I don’t know, it could have been, too, that it was just kind of hard for them to find jobs. So, once a Black man did get a job, he’d try to hold onto it as much as he could.

	H:	Mmhm. So, there’s a whole lot of questions I want to ask, but let me start here with your grandfather: was there ever any recoupment for that land he lost?

	S:	No. He ended up selling it a year after. And I think that’s what crushed him.



Because he just never regained his self after then. And he ended up living, again, in Orlando. As a child, we were here for certain things. And I didn’t—you know, I wish I would have had a chance to know him. But I do understand now that he was hurting. Because we were told that he was—he used to drink a lot. And as a child, you feel like, “Well, that’s not a good thing to hear!” And my dad never talked about him, nor did his other siblings. None of them ever talked about him. And I know he—my grandmother had pictures, my mom, my dad had pictures, but, just, no conversation about him at all. And, so, when I looked and I started





hearing certain things, I recognized that he wasn’t a drunk, he was a hurt. He was a crushed man. He was bruised from all that had happened. Not only did he lose his son, but he lost his land. He lost everything that he worked for.

Everything that he did. It was his livelihood. And most Black men, that’s what happens to them. And I just felt a compassion for him that I’m so sorry that that happened to him. That he wasn’t able to continue living a prosperous life for himself and his family. And so, with that, he passed away over in Orlando. They were very quiet. My grandmother wasn’t much of a talker. And she just was quiet a lot of times. I can see—she never smiled much, very solemn looks on her face. And I know it has to be a lot of the bruising from all of this. The devastation of losing a son, and almost losing their lives. Because not only did my uncle go to jail, even though he was done worse, but my father, my grandmother, my grandfather, the Irvins—Walter Irvin’s mother and father—all of them ended up in jail.

	H:	I didn’t know that.



	S:	Yeah. They ended up in jail because Sheriff McCall did not want their testimonies to be taken from the NAACP. So, his—you can’t do none of that today, you know. But they kept them incarcerated for like a week. And none of them—I asked Henrietta in talking to her, I said, “Did your mom ever say anything,” you know, “About it?” And she said, “No, she wouldn’t talk about it.” So, they kept that. And they took all of those things with them to the grave. And I said, “You know, I don’t know what could have happened to my father while he was incarcerated.” He just didn’t share.





	H:	So how do you know what happened?



	S:	By reading Gilbert’s book. Because he had all the records, the FBI records. And so, some things to me just clicked—they just made sense. In looking at how my father’ life was, he was a good man, and he was a Christian man. Loved the Lord. Would help anybody at any time. Sometimes, we thought he overdid it. [Laughter] You know. But he was just genuine in trying to help anybody when he could. And, to see him—the many times he was working. He worked all the time. And that’s when, when I read the book, I could put some things together, and I said, “My dad was hurting!” So, that was his way to process and healed and helped heal those wounds, by keeping busy. And he will work all the time. He was always working on somebody’s car. Somebody’d bring a car, their car around. Somebody wants him to come to their house, fix their bathroom pipe.

Something. There was always something, you know, someone needed him for, wanted him for. And he would go in and do it. And then we could see him late at night working in his garage. He always was in there late at night, working. So, we knew this was his way of processing. He started a process because he didn’t know how to heal. And back then, they didn’t have any psychiatrists. Who’s going to give a psychiatry—you know, a Black man go to a psychiatrist? You’re not going to hear that. And so, back then, they did the best they could with any situation that they dealt with. So, he never did—we would ask questions, and we would say, “Dad, what happened to him? All we know, he got shot. And was killed.” And he would always say, “I don’t want to talk about it.” He’d just always tell us, “I don’t want to talk about it.” And you know, you would just drop the





subject and move on. And then, maybe a couple of months or so later, you would try again or something. You know. And you would hear people talk, but they wouldn’t never really tell you anything, either. So, we just learned to leave it alone.

	H:	So, when do you think you learned the story? What happened in Groveland? S:	It was some years ago, back in—well, I was reading Corsair’s book in 2002?

[20]03? When his book came out. And I read his book. And I, you know, began to understand the case a little bit more. But when Gilbert’s came out, it gave me—

	H:	Felt alone?



	S:	Yeah. Yeah. I could—it was a good read for me. And I began to see my family, because there were some things about myself I just felt like I needed some closure on. And sometimes, you don’t feel a connection to your family. I didn’t have no connection to my grandfather, and my uncle, and—

	[Cell phone interruption] H:	No problem.

	S:	But, I just felt like—and I needed, I needed a connection to my family. The story was keeping us apart. Keeping me from my family, because at a point in our lives, my family just split. Everybody was just separated. We could never come together. And if you did, it was always some pain, or hurt, from this situation or our situation, something happened. And I was like, “I need more. There’s something here that I need!” And I said, “Okay. I need to find out more.” And as I read and I read, and I began to understand my people, how they were, how my grandfather was, and some of the people now that were around in that particular





time, they’re gone. And I’m so sorry that I really never got a lot of information about him. But I just always would hear that he was just an amazing man that would take anything and remake it, whatever—they were just so good with their hands. And I could see some of the things that I do with my hands, because I love certain things, and I love décor, and the interior, and all of those. And I said, “Wow. I’m now finding myself, where this came from!” So, you know, it blessed me to hear good things about my family. Because I never did hear, really, good things about them. And I needed that. I needed that. And my grandfather, to know that I come from really an amazing man, that really did it for me. So, I know—I forgave my father, because I was angry with him for not sharing, and I hear the other ones talk and they say the same thing about their siblings. Their mothers and fathers and all. But we recognize that they were hurt. We recognize that they had some issues there, and they didn’t know how to process and get free of certain things. So, I forgave him. And you know, and move on. We move on. Because I recognize he did what he could. He did the best that he could.

	H:	Mmhm. So, you say that your grandfather, Henry Shepherd, he—they hid in the groves.

	S:	Mmhm.



H:  What else do you know about that? Who helped them? What groves? How does that happen?

S:  Where in that land, now I’m going tell you this: I believe that there must—I don’t know exactly where. I don’t know if his employers, their employers—because to my understanding, too, they had little side jobs. So, I don’t know if—I think my





grandmother was a maid to someone. And I believe that they took them somewhere. They hid them out. Because they hid them out for a couple of days, because Groveland and Mascotte was just full—I mean, they even brought in, what is it? The president had issued where they brought in the army. Army had to come in. And so, they had them stationed all around. Because the Klansmen were really planning on lynching people and trying to kill. So, they had to hide them, because their plans was to kill this family. And they ended up somewhere—again, I don’t know where—

[Interruption in interview]



	H:	So, we’re resuming the interview. Mr. Eddie Lee Irvin Jr. and Eddie Lee Irvin Sr., and Mr. Sr’s wife just joined us. They’re going to be in another room, speaking with another interviewer. But, we’re hoping that Mr. Irvin, Sr. is willing to talk and give his interview. And I was just saying to Ms. Shepherd that what I’m hearing, and learning, is that part of the way the families dealt with this was to be quiet.

	S:	Yes.



	H:	And that—you know, I wonder what part of that is hurt, and what part of that is protection.

	S:	Yes. Yeah.



	H:	Because lives were lost. Not just lives were at stake, but it was very real, and present, the danger. So. And I’m very sorry for the loss of your uncle. Very, very—and for all the loss to your families.

	S:	Thank you. Thank you. I mean, you know. I think that a lot of people think that, “Well, that’s sixty-seven years ago.” You know. “That’s—” I mean, it’s a life. It





doesn’t matter if I was there or not. I mean, our lives were affected. I mean, through my father my life was affected. And for him, I know he’s gone and I can’t change any of that, but there is something that I can do. You know, now. And I mean, we can’t bring those lives back. But, we going bring justice to the situation. It was an injustice, and it needs to be made right. And I’m—I hurt. And I hurt for him, not being able to talk. Not being able to share, and sit down and—I mean, he had some good days. But still, to process that, that’s a lot. That’s a lot that, you know, you want to inquire; they went through a lot.

[Interruption in recording]



	H:	Okay. Sorry for that interruption. S:	It’s okay.

	H:	So, as a child: are you telling me as a child, you had no idea of this case called the Groveland Four?

	S:	We had no understanding of it. I mean, I heard about it. We heard about it as children. But we did not know anything. Now, my brothers and my sister, they were living during that time. And I know one of my brothers, the youngest one, James Jr., he was there when Irvin died. When he came back to Groveland. And I think Eddie Lee Jr., he has the story. They all have the story of when his uncle had passed away. Because I think they were—my brother and Henrietta was on their way back down to Miami. But somebody had brought him in, and he died inside his mother’s house. Now, in the book it states that he died in the car. But he died inside the house. So…

	H:	And he died of natural causes, though?





	S:	They think that it could’ve been. Or, we’ve heard heart attack. I’m not sure. And that would be a question that Eddie, that you know, you can ask. And we, you know—again, we all just grew up together. But we never ask questions. Me and my sister; I never heard my brothers ask any. I mean—well, again—okay, let me clarify: we asked questions, but we were silenced to try to find out what was going on. So, as a child, you respect your parents’ wishes. You know. We don’t say anything, even though we wanted to know. We just didn’t say anything, and we just lived our lives. And I mean, of course, I saw the pictures, and I wanted to know what they were like, but… They wouldn’t budge. They wouldn’t budge. And again, my grandmom, my uncles, aunts, they never said a word. Nothing. So, we would always, like, see it in the paper, or again, someone would say a little something. They never just gave us the whole story. We never really knew. And it wasn’t until, for me—I was living in Gainesville at the particular time. And I— trying to give you a date exactly. But I remember I was living in Gainesville, off of 15th Street, I used to live over there, and I think it was like on Memorial Day. And I was home, just laying on my couch, had the television on; I had fell asleep. But when I woke up, I saw my uncle’s picture on the television. And I thought I was dreaming! And I said, “What is he doing on television?” And I jumped up, and I looked, and it was the PBS station. And it was coming from UF. And I had called my mom, and I said, “Mom, I saw a picture of Uncle Sam on the television. What is going on?” And so, she told me it was a documentary that they were doing up there. And, so it was actually, the PBS station had did a documentary on that case, and also with, what’s his name? Moore. And so, I asked questions. Then I





said, “Why—” you know, “you guys never told us anything. What happened?” Well, she said “It was your dad.” You know, basically, “your dad. Your dad wouldn’t say anything, and he wouldn’t let me say anything.” And I mean, she’s only getting information that she knew from them. And I think it really kind of boils—it came from that particular time that I started to want to know more. And that had to be around about 2000, 2001, somewhere like that. Because Corsair’s book came out in like 2002. So, all of this started kind of developing and coming out then. And I asked my dad, you know—at this time, I’m older now—I asked my dad, and he told me, “I don’t want to talk about it.”

	H:	Still didn’t want to talk about it.



	S:	And he wouldn’t. And so, I respected his wishes, and everything that happened, it went to the grave with him.

	H:	Mmhm. What about any correspondences, from the NAACP? Are there any records of, you know, letters or anything from those lawyers who defended?

	S:	You know, I was thinking about that this morning, and I haven’t done anything, but I wanted to talk to Gilbert King, to see in his records did he have anything, any correspondence from my grandparents to my uncle, or my dad, or anybody. I know that—I think Henrietta has some information down there, and that’s basically her information with her brother Walter Lee. But I, as far as my grandparents, I don’t know. I really want to know that, if there is something that was there. Because I know that he did have some information from Dellia to, like, Thurgood. Thurgood was writing to Dellia about the court case.

	H:	Dellia is—





	S:	Dellia Irvin.



	H:	Walter Irvin’s mother?



	S:	Mother, yes. So, that would be Walter and Eddie Lee Sr.’s mother. Yeah. So—I do, I really want to know if they’re, and I might do that tonight, just send him an email and ask him, you know, did he have anything? Because I would love to see.

	H:	We can help with that, too, if you need any help trying to track some stuff down.



I’d be more than happy to help you track some stuff down.



	S:	Oh! Awesome, awesome.



	H:	What was I about to ask? So, I asked about the NAACP. There was one other question that that just raised for me… I can’t remember. What has the recent— you know, so, just a couple of months ago, there was the proclamation read in Groveland. And it was my understanding from the Devil in the Grove event that this was the first time the families had really come back together in Groveland.

	S:	Yeah. Yeah. From what I know—because, a lot of them had started off before I did. I did not know. I was living in Gainesville, and nobody had contacted. I didn’t know—we didn’t get a lot of information about it. And again, I wasn’t so into it; I was just developing this interest in what was going on. Because I knew something was in me, it was eating, and I just didn’t know how to deal with it. And I asked my sister, and my sister, she had other situations that—you know, I thought we could really go into it together, but, she’s with us, but she has an autistic son that she was just trying to get him taken care of and everything. So, you know, I went in it myself, trying to get information and whatever I could to find





out. And after—again, after I read that book, I wrote a letter to Gilbert in thanking him for putting out all this information, and just giving me a sense of pride for my family. And so, it started there, and 2013, I—

H:  Had you met the Irvins or the Greenlees before that? S:   We hadn’t seen each other in years.

H:   Of course, you’d met ‘em. [Laughter]



	S:	Yeah. We hadn’t seen each other in years. Everybody just pretty much living their lives now; we’re not little kids anymore, so we all grown up and moving on, and everybody’s gone their separate ways. So, again, they were pretty much still in it. But I think there was a period of time where they had been trying to get this exoneration done, because Gary Corsair was heading a whole lot of things. And Eddie Lee and Henrietta and a bunch of them, they were all trying to get the exoneration done, but nothing was happening. And so, a lot of them wearied.

They got weary, and kind of just laid low, and got tired, and left it alone. But at that particular time, you know, I was told that “You came in”—what I was told was that “You came in, you helped push it up again. You gave us strength again to move on.” So, I felt that, “Well, it’s our fight. I need to join this fight.” And that’s when I came in, really. Again, everything pretty much started in 2000, but it was leading on up to 2013. And 2013—[20]12, excuse me. 2012, because that’s when Gilbert’s book came out. And I started pushing and trying to find information, whatever I could. And some of my cousins, we hadn’t seen each other in years. And all of the sudden, they just called and say, “We’re giving Mom a surprise birthday party, we’ll just show up.” And I was like, “Wow! All of these





things are just happened, they’re popping at the same time.” And so, next thing I know, my cousin Jeanette, she had her own story of how she found out. And she was living in, I think it was Virginia. They were in the service. And she was searching out things on ancestry.com, I think it was. And then, she—this is how the story came up—she never knew anything about it. So, everybody has their own story. And how it came about to them. But I believe that there’s a time for everything, there’s a season for everything. And we just came in together at this particular time, and now we’re getting the support. We’ve been getting some of the support that we needed. And that God for Geraldine, Senator Geraldine Thompson, for writing the bill. And for the rest of them have come along: Mayor Louksen, Senator Sean Parks, and the other senators—excuse me, not senator, but commissioners. So, we were glad to have them aboard to help push it along for us. And now, it’s sitting in the lap of Governor Scott, and we’re just praying that he will go on and do what’s needed to be done. You know, so.

	H:	So, I haven’t heard anything about Earnest Thomas’s family. S:	Nothing.

	H:	Not a thing.



	S:	Nobody has no information, from what I was told. They’ve tried. They’ve researched. And, just no information. Now, Eddie Lee has told me this story, and they believe that—I don’t know if it’s true or not—but you know, he said that they believe that he probably escaped. Maybe still alive and escaped. He maybe just wanted to get out just like Greenlee did get out of this state and never come back. And then, I heard that he actually was shot and killed. Can you just





imagine? That is not justice! They literally—that man got away with that! That’s just murder. For him to go over in the Live Oak area—that’s a hundred, I think it was a hundred and some bullets. To have shot that man. That was an intent to kill.

	H:	Oh, yes. Oh yes.



	S:	That was an intent to kill. And for years and years, they’ve gotten away with that.



But that was the type of lifestyle that they lived back then. But some of them didn’t know—some of those men didn’t know if they’d ever come back home to their families. You know. It’s just a survival. Just trying to survive. But, yes. We don’t have any information on him whatever that happened. And I don’t know.

	H:	Did you ever have any—speaking of that man—did you ever have any interactions, experiences, with Sheriff McCall?

	S:	No, I didn’t. But I do remember, as a child—I think I was in my teens, early teens—but I had a teacher, and she used to mentor me a lot.

	H:	White or Black?



	S:	A Black teacher. But at this particular time, she was teaching summer school over in Tavares area. And I end up meeting his son. And I met his son, he went to school there for summer, and I remembered the name. I don’t know what he looks like today or whatever, but I do remember that situation. And also, years later, again—okay, when I had come home, and I come back to Clermont in around 2003. At this particular time, there again, Gary’s book was out, and we were on search, me and my sister, my mother, we was talking about the story and everything, and we were on search for Gary’s book. And we went online, we





went to Amazon. It was gone. No one had the book. So, we called around to all the areas around Clermont here, and we ended up calling Books-A-Million over in Leesburg, at their mall. And we decided—they said they had the book, so we said, “Okay, well, we’re headed over there.” To hold the book. And we went over there, we got there: there was no book. So we said, “Okay.” I called on my cell, and I’m checking around, there was another place in Lady Lake. It was a book store in Lady Lake. And I told Jeannie, I said, “Well, this is the only other place that I see.” So I called, and we were on our way that way. And so, this lady answered the phone, and she said, “Yeah, I think we still do have that book. But we are closing. The book store is closing.” So I remember this other person came on the phone, and they said, “Hello? May I ask, who are you?” And I said, “Well, may I ask who are you?” And she said, “Well, I am Sheriff McCall’s granddaughter.”

	H:	Wow.



	S:	And I was like—and my sister was driving, and I was like, “This girl say she is Sheriff McCall’s granddaughter!” And so, she begin to tell me that her grandfather—“I just want you to know, that was my grandfather, and my grandfather was a loving man, he didn’t do anything like that. He could never do anything like that.” I said, “Sweetheart, you don’t know what your grandfather did.”

	H:	Wow! Interesting.



	S:	Yes. That’s what I’m saying. It’s just—we were like, “What?” And I told her, I said—well, she kept asking, “Who are you?” I said, “Well, I am family of the





families that was murdered and killed,” you know, just letting her know what happened. And I said, “You know what? I know that that’s your grandfather, and you love him dearly. But you’ve got to check the story out. Sometimes people are not what you think they are.” And she came back to tell me that the book wasn’t there anyway, they didn’t have the book. And I said, “Okay, fine.” And we hung up. But I was like, all that kind of stuff was happening to me and my sister. And we were looking at that like another sign: something, “We’ve got to get involved.” To me, it was like, “I’ve got to get involved.” And I’ve never met her before, but I do know that book store. I called, and she told me she was still the granddaughter. So I don’t know them, I don’t know anything; basically, just only the things that we’ve heard, and stand true. And a lot of people still talk about the different things that have happened in the Eustis, Umatilla area.

	H:	What do you mean “the different things”?



	S:	Different things like how they mistreated Black people. He mistreated a lot of Black people.

	H:	“He” being Sheriff McCall.



	S:	Yes, Sheriff McCall. And a lot of Black people were killed and murdered. And lives were taken, and—I mean, there are different stories of him at his, you know, when he was dying, he was asking forgiveness. They say sometimes he would show up at the Black churches, and sit, and he would ask them to please forgive him for what he had done. Because, I know I remember reading Askew, Governor Askew had took him down because he had beaten the gentleman that was mentally disturbed. So, you know, things like that. That was the last case.





That was the last situation. So, they had let him get away with so much for all those years, and it finally boiled down to that particular time that he took him out. But…

	H:	Well, is there anything else that you want to say before we close up?



	S:	Hm. I can’t think of anything. We just—in hopes of our exoneration, soon. And we’re just still trying to do whatever it is that we need to do to get this done. So, we can move on, you know, with our lives.

	H:	Well, before—for the record, what were the names of your elementary, middle, and high school? That you attended.

	S:	I attended… well, my elementary was first Lincoln Park Elementary, because at that particular time, we were just started segregating. So, I started at Lincoln Park—

	H:	Which is an all-Black school?



	S:	It was an—it really was an all-Black school, yes. And so, they had elementary on up. So, then, this was the time that was getting ready to segregate, and then I went in to Clermont Elementary. Then, from Clermont Elementary, went to Clermont Junior High, and then to Clermont High School.

	H:	So, do you have any memories of what it was like to go to be the class that was integrating schools?

	S:	I was one of the first. It was, like, three of us, if I remember at the time. It was me, one of my friends Bernita Taylor, and Duane Hodges. And all of us went into segregation, I mean, over—

	H:	Integrated.





	S:	Integrated. Thank you. And then, the next year, everybody else came over. So, that was a change. I went to high school, and then right out of high school, I became a librarian for Clermont Elementary. And at that particular time, it’s just so amazing—and I don’t want to give the wrong story, it might, I may need to hush on that one. But, I had come out of school not knowing—I’m thinking about that by the book. Because, when you’re reading the book, and you can hear— and you know where certain places are, and you know, you’ve heard of this, you’ve heard of that. And so, in reading, I remembered names. And Cockroft was one of the names of the Klu Klux Klanmen. And so, I was reading it, I went to school with one of the boys, the Cockrofts. And there was another one. There were two principals. And there was a Mr. Cockroft as a principal, and then there’s another one with a “C,” I just can’t remember his name. But when I started working there, they gave me the job. So, when I started reading and I was putting two and two together, I said, “Oh my God! Look at this!” Flowers Cockroft was head of the Klu Klux Klan in the Lake County area. And sometimes, you just don’t know these things, you know? And it was just amazing to me that, I mean, here, this man helped me out. He may do something I didn’t know, and make amends for whatever it is, and see—because people’ hearts can be changed. Or people can be different from what their ancestors were. So. And I looked at that, and I said, “Look how close everything was.” So, I’m trying to think. Did Cockroft give me the job, or Mr.—he’s a “Mr. C,” I can’t think of his name. But I don’t want to say that wrong. You know.

	H:	Yeah. Somebody.





	S:	Yes. It was two of them. But I know that, I went to school with Billy Cockroft, but his dad was a principal, too. So, there are a lot of people you come in contact with that you don’t even know that may have connections with the story. They have people, they have connections with the story. So, here I’m just living, and just naïve to a whole lot of things that was happening around me. But here again, I think it was just a hedge of protection that my daddy created. It was just a covering over us to keep us from getting too close to harm’s way. Just was a thought, I just thought about that.

	H:	Well, Ms. Shepherd, thank you very much for the interview. S:	You’re welcome. Welcome.

[Break in recording]



	S:	That was my granddad’ mother. H:	So, this is—

	S:	That’s my grandmother Charlie Mae Shepherd.



H:  Okay. And, when they went to Orlando—your grandmother and—when they fled, and went to Orlando, your grandmother and your grandfather were still married? They stayed together.

S:   Yeah. Yeah, yeah. They were married.



H:   Okay. And her name is Charlie Mae Shepherd. And, who is this?



	S:	That’s my Uncle Sam. Look like all of his pictures, they show a different look of him? But, that was him.

H:   And this is before it happened.



S:   Yes. This is when he was over in France.







H:



S:



H:

What did he do—so, which branch of the service was he in? I think it was Army.

Okay. Do you know where this picture of your grandmother was taken?

S:

No.

H:

I’m asking because it’s all them trees in the background.

S:

Orange trees, yeah.

H:

Yeah, and you talked about farming.

S:

Yeah. But this is, I want to get this redone, but, this was his funeral. They didn’t



even dress him in his—

H:

Uniform.

S:

Mm-mm.

H:

So, how did—well, I’m sure that’s in the book, perhaps. But, after he was



murdered by Sheriff McCall, the body was given back to the family?

S:

Mmhm.

H:

And there was a funeral.

S:

Yes.

H:

Okay. And where did you get this picture from?

S:

My dad. I think this came from my grandmother, though. That was my



grandmother’s.

H:

Okay. So, your dad had this picture.

S:

Yes.

H:

Did you see it as a child, this picture?







S:

I’m not—I don’t really remember that one. I remember, like this. I don’t even





H:

really remember this one. But—



And by “this,” you’re talking about—

S:

The house.

H:

So, this picture—whose house is this a picture of?

S:

That was their house.

H:

In Groveland.

S:

Uh-huh.

H:

These were your grandparents’ house.

S:

Yes.

H:

Where they also had the land and the property.

S:

Yeah.

H:

It’s a beautiful house.

S:

Yeah, and I’m—he built it hisself.

H:

He built it!

S:

Mmhm.

H:

Look at that window! Up there.

S:

Yep. He built it. It’s my dad’s handwriting.

H:

Do you mind if I take a picture of that back, too?

S:

No, no problem.

H:

And there is no—so, if we drove out to where this house was, what would we see





S:

now?



Well, that was another thing: I never really, I haven’t been out there.





	H:	Do you know where it is?



	S:	I know where it is. But, that’s another story! [Laughter] Because, I went out there, and one day—because my cousins and all, we kept saying, “We’re going to go and find this house.” All my years with him, my dad would never talk about it, and then, we didn’t—I didn’t even know—I knew where the road was, but never paid any attention. So when they told me that was Bay Lake Road, I was like, “What?” So, here one day, I’m over in this area, and I said, “I’m going just go find it myself.” I was tired of waiting on them, because they always had some situation, so I just said, “Okay. I’m going to go.” I went over. There’s a road that’s called 33. I took 33—I went online, and did all what it is to find it. I went to get all the information. So, I’m going out here. There’s Bay Lake Road. I’m going down this road. All of the sudden, this truck comes from nowhere. It’s like an old, paved, dirt-like road. So, I’m like, “What? Why is he on me like this?” He’s on me. It’s one of them big-wheeled trucks. So, he’s behind me like this, and I was like, “Oh, my God!” And all you could think about was, in a movie. Like in those movies.

And I said, “Oh God, if you could just let me get out of here. Just let me get out of here. I won’t come back here by myself again.” So I’m riding, and finally I got down to the road where there is a—there’s a church on the right, and then there’s, like, land on the left. And when I got there, he sped around in a hurry and went off, and he went to the left. I turned to the right, because if I go to the right, I know it’s going to take me back to this road here, 50. So, I went straight down that road there to the right there, it’s the road where my grandfather’s house was. So I said, “Okay, I’m going to go down.” I went down the road a little piece; it





started raining. And I was like, “Doggone it!” Here, I guess it just wasn’t timing for me. So, it was all grown up, all grassy and everything. And not very sure from what I was seeing online, it looked like the area, but I had to turn around, because the rain was coming faster. And so, I turned around, and I was going out. There was this black jeep came up. And they slowed down, and then they looked, and then they turned around, and they followed me. And they followed me all the way out.

	H:	White or Black?



	S:	They were White lived back there. So, they followed me all the way out, and I just—I left there, and I said, “Nah, I can’t do this by myself ever again.” You know, because I hear that it’s still very racial. There are a couple of Black people back there that have houses—they were new houses. So they don’t really know. But I went back there, and I just said, “No more.” I want to find it. I wanted to find it. And I have never found that area of land yet.

	H:	Do you know who your grandfather sold it to? The name of the person?



	S:	I still got some information, yeah. Yeah. I still—and it seemed to be, it was sold, like, several times. And then the land was, like, split. They split the land. So, I’m not very sure of—I think whoever has it, it was like a lady or a couple that had the land, so I don’t know. We just never did go back there, or try. So. But I mean, that was scary. That was very scary. Because, I mean—I was like, all of the sudden, “Where did they just come from?” And—but this is, this is another picture of him in France. And this is my granddad.

	H:	Oh, that’s a gorgeous picture. That’s a handsome man.





	S:	This is another picture of him in France. Okay, this is him and his sister. H:	This is who and his sister?

	S:	My grandfather, excuse me. But I don’t know if you can tell—you can look at his eye. They shot him in the eye. They shot at him, and it hit his eye. So, he—

	H:	That was—trying to get out of—



	S:	The Klansmen. Mmhm. They had shot him when- that’s the house. This is Henrietta, old photo of Henrietta. This was my dad.

	H:	That’s a strong-looking man.



	S:	Yep. And he was in the Navy. Oh, that’s my sister, Edith. That’s Henrietta and my dad. That’s Edith, the first-born. That’s my brother James Jr. That was my dad in his older years. When he caught a fish over in Daytona that was one proud moment for him. He was so excited! We ate—it was a jack-o-lantern fish. We ate that fish for, like, a whole year, child! This is, that’s my mom right there. And my dad.

	H:	And your mother outlived your father. S:	Yes. She’s still living.

	H:	She’s still alive!



	S:	Yeah. But, she has Alzheimer’s, so. But this is a picture of Henrietta. And that’s Walter Lee. And again, that’s my grandfather. This another picture of my grandmother. See, she never smiled, she just—

	H:	Do you know where that picture is? S:	That’s at Silver Springs.

	H:	Oh, okay. Okay.





	S:	Yeah. I think that’s him and his uncles. All of them were tall. I think that’s about it.



Oh, the gravesite. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, July 29, 2016 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 1, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 26, 2019