AAHP 138B; Coleman; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 138B Cranford Ronald Coleman

Interviewed by Ryan Morini and Raja Rahim on November, 2015 1 hour, 16 minutes | 35 pages



Abstract: Ron Coleman talks about what life was like living on the west side of Ocala during the 1950s, including the thriving middle-class Black community he was raised in, and the successful Black businesses on Magnolia Avenue and other locations. Mr.

Coleman grew up experiencing town life as well as farming and hunting, and his parents were both actively involved in Ocala’s NAACP chapter. He describes at length the Civil Rights Movement in Marion County, as well as the impact on and involvement of the Black community in the Movement.





[Keywords: African American History; Marion County, Florida; Hunting; Fishing; NAACP; Civil Rights Movement; University of Florida]



















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 138B

Interviewee: Cranford Ronald Coleman Jr. Interviewer: Ryan Morini and Raja Rahim Date: November 20, 2015



	M:	So, this is Ryan Morini from the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. It’s November 20, 2015, and I’m here in Pugh Hall with Ron Coleman and—

	R:	Raja Rahim.



	M:	So, thanks for joining us today. C:	You’re welcome.

	M:	So, in your last interview, you said you were born in 1950 in Ocala, is that correct?

	C:	That is correct.



	M:	Okay. So, where did you grow up in Ocala?



	C:	I grew up on the west side—the best side, of course! [Laughter] So, the railroad track, as you probably have heard by now, literally was the line of demarcation. It separated east and west. Generally speaking, almost exclusively, Blacks lived on the west side of Ocala. So, I grew up about five or six blocks from the railroad tracks, just inside the city limits.

	M:	And so, how far were you from downtown?



	C:	Literally, twelve to fifteen blocks, maybe. I could walk there in five to ten minutes.



	M:	So, what was the experience in that community? Did you go over to downtown very often, or did you kind of stay within the community most of the time, or—?

	C:	For the most part, the shopping that we did downtown was at specific retail stores. Not every store was open to Blacks in the community, but for the most part, we could go and shop in most of the stores. So yes, we did venture downtown quite a bit, if it was for no other reason than to just browse around,





and roam in the streets a little bit, and just get a feel of the flavor of downtown Ocala. Mmhm.

	M:	And was that a fun experience to go downtown?



	C:	It was absolutely a fun experience. Of course, there were several Black businesses as well. We had our own doctors—Dr. Jones had his own business, this was downtown as well. So it was absolutely a fun experience. And my growing up in Ocala as a youngster—and I mean very young, maybe six to ten or twelve years old—one of the fun things to do—the community was so small.

Here’s how small the community is: one of the fun things for us to do is if the fire truck was coming down the road, if we heard it, we would immediately run to the main road there, which was Broadway, and as the truck passed, we would just fall in behind it and run behind it. “Where’s this fire? Yahoo!” That was fun for us. That was a big deal. Follow the sirens! [Laughter] It might sound trivial, but that was a fun thing to do. We had a fun time in Ocala.

M:  Sounds that way. Did you spend a lot of time in the Black—was there still a Black business district at that time? At least, people have talked about that in terms of, I think it’s on Broadway, near Magnolia, there was kind of a cluster of—

	C:	Correct, yeah. They were within several blocks of each other, the few Black businesses that were there. Of course, all the Blacks in the community frequented those retail merchants, and the grocery merchants as well. They were—several of them, of course, were not in downtown proper, but for the most part the larger Black businesses—retail merchants—were in the downtown area. Mmhm.





	M:	And I have some more questions about that, but just to—talking about the smallness of Ocala: my understanding is it was a very different place years ago, in terms of there were a lot more woods where now you’ve got houses and roads. I mean, this was—it had more of a rural feel to it, I guess. Is that—?

	C:	It really, it really did. Ocala was a small town. It was, at one time, proposed to be the home of the University of Florida. However, the forefathers, the ones who were responsible for making those decisions in Ocala at that time, decided that the utility bill for the University of Florida would be far too great to take on that kind of responsibility, that kind of cost. So therefore, Ocala was immediately out of contention for the birth of the University of Florida. [Laughter] Unbelievable. It’s one of those lesser-known facts, but one that’s recorded somewhere in history.

And hopefully you’ve run across it somewhere—and if not, this may be the source! [Laughter]

	M:	I’ve heard a lot of stories about—Dorsey Miller was telling me that that was also why Disney didn’t build Disney World in Ocala, was because the town fathers kind of didn’t like the idea of that coming in. I mean, it seems like—the Florida Canal was going to come through Ocala; there were a lot of—

	C:	Projects.



	M:	Ocala was this close to being in the middle of a lot of stuff, but it never made it into anything, it seems.

	C:	Never did. It never did. We were confined to running behind fire trucks! [Laughter] But, it was very rural in its nature. Very woodsy—I’m talking about two-lane roads. Later on, the highway—the main highway that runs through, of





course—became a four-lane highway; that was a big deal. And then, we could always find solace, believe it or not, as youngsters, somewhere out in the woods doing woodsy things, whatever that might be: either camping out, hiding out, playing in the lime rock pits—and there were many of those around. But Ocala did have a very rural flavor as we were growing up. It has, of course, changed, quite a bit in recent years. But that woodsy feel can only be seen now in the outskirts.

	M:	So what was your neighborhood itself like? You said it’s since become called Poinsettia Heights, if I remember that right.

	C:	Correct.



	M:	What was that neighborhood like? Because there were a few different neighborhoods. Was there anything distinctive about yours?

	C:	You know, our neighborhood—and I never even considered this until later on, when I reflected on where we lived—our neighborhood was one that if there were a middle class in Ocala, our neighborhood was probably closer to that than some of the others. And I think it might have been due to the fact that many educators and other professionals lived in our immediate neighborhood. And I suppose that was by design; that was on purpose. They wanted to live near each other. They wanted to communicate and do things together. So, my mom was an educator.

Two doors down, three doors down, on the corner, across the street, there were educators all around us. My father was a tonsorialist—did I tell you about that one?

	M:	Mmhm.





	C:	Yeah. So, there were several other barbers in, around, or near where we lived. Other professionals, skilled professionals as well: plumbers, et cetera. So, our neighborhood was—even though I didn’t know it at the time, it was somewhat unique. The immediate neighborhood. Now, as the neighborhood spread out, it was still all-inclusive. There was no restrictiveness to that area, or to any other areas. They all worked together, they all merged together. They were as one unit. It was just the immediate living, the immediate housing, that was different. That was strange, though, come to think of it; I mean, it was—we had so many educators right there within a two or three block radius. The same street.

	M:	How did that change the experience of growing up there as a kid? I mean, was that different at all?

	C:	I have to say, it was not difficult growing up there at all. I mean, it was quite easy. And it was probably great for us more than we ever realized as we were growing up, because the village, as it were, would be there constantly. I mean, if it was getting dark, and one of the village ladies saw us not near enough to home, they would get us headed in that direction. [Laughter] The village would take care of us as we were growing up. And I have to tell you that the best part of being in that environment was the feeling of being nurtured and protected, although we had no concept of it as we were growing up. But later on, it was obvious that we were well-nurtured, in a general context, and well-protected. We did well.

	M:	Well, sounds that way. And you were saying, so there were professionals living in the neighborhood, like your father and other barbers. Did people actually come





into that part of town for haircuts and things like that? Did your dad work out of the house, or did he have his own shop downtown?

	C:	No, he was one of those merchants in the downtown area. Yeah, he was right in the heart of the downtown area. He was two blocks from Main Street, and he was frequented by the entire community, of course—the entire Black community.

	M:	So, what were your parents’ names?



	C:	Martha and Cranford—which, I’m a Junior: Cranford Ronald Coleman Jr. So I asked my dad once, “Where did you get ‘Cranford’ from?” And he goes, "I don't know, I have no idea!” I said, “Well, there’s a city in New Jersey. It’s called ‘Cranford.’ Does that ring a bell, do you think that might have had something to do with it?” He said, “Son, I have no idea.” I said, “Well, it doesn’t matter, I love the name. It’s very unique.” I don’t know anybody else named Cranford. [Laughter] So, his business was right downtown. It was called Murray’s Barbershop, because my uncle actually owned the shop. Cranford, Murray, and Mr. Woodard worked in that barbershop for years on end. And my mom’s maiden name was McRae. Martha Elizabeth McRae.

	M:	That’s M-C-R-A-E?



	C:	Correct. Mmhm.



M:  So, the—I’d like to get back to the barbershop in a minute, but where were your parents’ families from? Like, do you know where your father’s side of the family came from? Or did they grow up in Ocala? Or—?

C:  My mother’s family grew up in the Ocala area. They did. And they had a long history in the Ocala area. We can go out to the cemetery and trace her parents,





her grandparents, and from there it kind of spreads out a little bit. But they had a long history right there in Ocala. My father, on the other hand, was, his family was from a different part of Florida, and it was called Red Level, Florida. It was just outside of Crystal River, Florida. So, I said to my dad, “Listen, I’ve heard of this place called Red Level all these years. We must go there.” So, we jumped in the car one day, just he and I, and we drove to Crystal River. He said, “Okay, go this way.” So I’m like, “Okay. Let’s go this way!” [Laughter] He goes, “Okay, now right around here somewhere, you’re going have to turn.” Like, “Really? We’re going to Red Level, right? This is where you were born and raised.” “Yeah, yeah, yeah, but it’s not so easy to find anymore. There’s a highway here, and all this stuff wasn’t here—it was woods, and we followed a trail. The trail is not here.” Okay, so we turn off the road, and we’re on still a paved road, and all of the sudden I see a sign that says, “Red Level.” And I’m thinking, “We here!” He goes, “Nope. That’s not it. This is not Red Level. Just keep going. Don’t know why they put that sign back there.” He was pretty aggravated about, “They put a sign back here—that’s not Red Level!” Well, maybe not for him. But anyway, we drive, and we drive, and all of the sudden he says, “Stop!” And this is in the middle of nowhere. So, he says, “Right over there.” And he just pointed in this woods. And I thought, “This is huge! This is very significant to me, to know where my father came from.” “Right through those woods.” I said, “Is there anything remaining that looks the same, or that is similar?” And he said, “No, not really. But it’s right through those woods. If you want to take a walk back there, we can.” I’m thinking, “That’s pretty thick; we can just get out and take some pictures and stuff like





that.” But yeah. Red Level, Florida, near Crystal River, is near where my father’s folks came from. And they went around, they moved to Starke, and to—there’s another place called Boardman up north of here. They moved around, but then eventually moved right back in—he did, rather—right back in Ocala, where he met my mom.

	M:	Was he following work, is that how he ended up in Ocala? C:	Mmhm.

	M:	Yeah. Can I ask who his parents were? C:	His parents were John and Sarah.

	M:	Do you know Sarah’s maiden name?



	C:	Sarah… I can tell you in a second. It’s escaping me. M:	I don’t imagine you get asked very often, but—

	C:	No. Okay. No, I don’t. I can’t remember. I’m thinking back to the cemetery. Because he took me to their burial place, which is different from my mom’s family’s burial place. Their burial place is in Crystal River, which was interesting to go there, as well. Because there were people on his side of the family that I had no idea, that he never talked about—well, he didn’t have a reason to, I suppose. But ending up there was very revealing to me. And I cannot remember her last name!

	M:	It might return to you. C:	Yeah. Yeah, sure.

	M:	So, what did they do in Red Level? What did John Coleman, what did he do?



What was his occupation?





	C:	They were farmers. They were sharecroppers. They tilled the soil. They toiled in the land—on the land. That’s how they made a living.

	M:	Did they own any of that land, or were they always working—



	C:	That I don’t know, but I think so, because my father always talked about, his dad would have to run people away from his property. So I’m thinking that meant he had ownership. And if he didn’t have direct ownership, he had privileged ownership, so that he was able to call it his own, I suppose.

	M:	Okay. Did you ever meet these grandparents? C:	No, they were gone before I was born.

	M:	Okay. So you just knew them through what your— C:	Mmhm.

	M:	Okay. And do you know, did Sarah do anything? Did she do any kind of paid work, or did she just kind of maintain the home, or—?

	C:	I don’t think she did any kind of paid work, but I’m not absolutely certain. Yeah.



He talked about how she kept the home constantly, and she would take in—well, I guess this is a form of work, absolutely it is, thinking of it—she would take in wash, and she would take people’s children and keep them, so yeah, I guess so. Yeah. She did earn a living in that way, yep. But not outside of the home. All of this was done in her home.

	M:	Okay. Did he ever tell you any other stories about them, or—?



	C:	Not very many. I’ve heard a few stories about how they caught alligators, and how his dad would take him hunting. As he was taking us hunting, myself and my brother, he would take us on hunting excursions, and he would talk about his





father taking him to learn to hunt. And one of his proudest moments was capturing an alligator. I’m like, “Okay. I’m happy for you.” Must’ve been a brave moment, I suppose! Yeah. [Laughter]

	M:	I think so! Did he ever talk about what it was like growing up in Red Level? I mean, what was his experience?

	C:	Yeah, he talked about that quite frequently, because, like many others during that time, unless you just happened to live nearby the school, you were fortunate to live nearby, otherwise you just had to get out there and go to school. Walk, literally, to school. That may have been a mile, or five miles, or seven miles, one way. He talked about that quite frequently, because it was a matter of pride for him. And he talked about the fact that at the age of fifteen, he had to literally drop out of school because his father passed away as a youngster. And being one of the oldest, he was now responsible to help his mom raise the family. So, he never finished high school, which was something that he felt was a matter of pride, literally, for him—he needed to do something different, other than go to school. And he did that quite well. He worked. He worked as a cotton mill, cotton gin person, whatever they do in cotton gins, cotton mills. And he worked odd jobs, as a laborer. And subsequently, he just helped his mom to raise the family.

	M:	And that’s all in Red Level. He was staying there that whole time? C:	Yep. Mmhm.

	M:	Okay. So how did he become a barber?



	C:	Interesting story. When he was in the Army, World War II veteran, he met some folks—well, his unit, actually, his Army unit. All these bedraggled folks needed





haircuts. So he learned to cut hair literally in the Army, and then, subsequent to that, went to school, barbering school, to learn how to do it properly, and to obtain a license, and that’s a very short story about his barbering career—how it got started, anyway. Yeah. It was just an interest that was sparked by a need.

	M:	Interesting. So he ended up becoming a barber—so did he go to Ocala to open the barbershop, or I guess your uncle was opening it and he joined?

	C:	Yeah, I think that was the way it was. Uncle Murray—Murray McRae—I think he already had the barbershop. And my dad joined him in that venture. They may have opened it jointly, together, at the same time, but I’m not sure about that one. But yeah, they joined each other, and he went from there.

	M:	And so that’s your mom’s brother. It’s your uncle on your mother’s side. C:	Correct, Mmhm.

	M:	Okay. Okay. And then, who was Mr. Woodward?



	C:	Mr. Woodard? He is a friend of the family. He’s unrelated, but a great friend of the family.

	M:	Did he live in the neighborhood, too? You knew him pretty well?



	C:	He lived more on the rural, in a rural area, of Ocala, of Marion County. Maybe five or ten miles away from the center of town. But he lived in the outskirts, on a farm. And there were many Black farmers around at that time, as well, many of whom lived outside of the central area, the central neighborhoods of Ocala proper. So yeah, he was one of those.

	M:	I mean, that brings up something else I was wondering about. I know a lot of people kept gardens, or you’d grow some of your own food, you didn’t always





buy it all. Did your family raise any of your own food, or did you get farm products from relatives or something? Or was hunting a big part of putting food on the table, and that kind of thing?

	C:	Mmhm, Mmhm. You mentioned Mary C. Williams. Her mom and my mom were twin sisters. So on the McRae side of the family, there were at least two very large farms out in the rural areas of Marion County. Aunts and uncles lived on those farms. They had farm animals. They had large—I’m talking about acres of crops. And in addition to that, we maintained a small garden, maybe about the size of this general area up here, and had a few pets as well. They were pets to me, I don’t know what they called them. Chickens. Chickens and rabbits, I remember well.

	M:	You raised rabbits?



	C:	Well, yeah. But they were just a few. You know, in a small thingy in the corner here, but I remember it well, because I would always try to climb in and let them go. [Laughter] That was a pretty severe punishment! But it was a lesson I didn’t learn too well. “Let my rabbits go!” [Laughter] I’ll never forget it. Until the day I climbed up—they would put them up above the ground, so I had to climb up there in order to open the gate. And I slipped one day and injured myself, and that was the last time I let the rabbits go. [Laughter] Yep. So we did raise small animals, but we had a very nice garden in the backyard. And along with the McRae side of the family with those large farms, we always—and we went out there to learn to work. Our parents would make sure that we got out there to learn how to do this stuff. You know? To experience it. To feed the animals, and





to work those crops, and to harvest those crops, and to be a part of that farm experience. Because they knew the value of that, as far as work ethic. And it paid off, bigtime.

	M:	And as far as hunting, was that a major part of putting food on the table, or was that just a thing recreationally?

	C:	It was not—it was purely recreational. And in addition to that, it satisfied a penchant that my father had, and some of his friends and family as well, for squirrel meat, literally. Squirrel and quail were the primary objectives of his hunting experience. He would go after squirrels, and we would have grits and squirrel on the table for breakfast. And quail, which was a—even now, is considered a delicacy. So, that was the major game that we went after in our hunting experience. Very limited. Yeah, we didn’t do the big game hunting. Yeah. Although we did have an experience once when we saw a deer. But, you know, you need to have certain equipment to bring down a deer. Well, birdshot is not going to do the same as buckshot. But I guess Dad thought he’d take a wild shot anyway. So, the dog takes off. As the dog takes off, birds fly up. There’s a deer running across. My brother takes off after the deer. My dad raises the gun, fires, and at the same time—unknown to me, at that moment, my brother trips and goes face first down into this brush. I can’t see him, and “Oh, my God, my dad has shot my brother! He’s just gone! He’s killed my brother!” [Laughter] So he says, “Go help your brother.” “I’m not going over there! He’s dead!” That’s what I’m thinking, anyway. So he raises his head up, and I’m like, “So he’s not dead!” We can see his—right above the bushes, his head comes up. I’m thinking, “Oh,





my God, what is this?” And the deer running through the woods. No birds are shot. Where is the dog? My brother’s—“Can we go home?” [Laughter] It was a great hunting experience.

	M:	It sounds like it.



	C:	Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And so, that, hunting was something that I learned at an early age. And I’m thankful for that. I know how to do that if I ever need to, now.

	M:	Well, it’s good to learn those things. Can I ask a little more about the McRae side of the family?

	C:	Sure.



	M:	So who were her parents?



	C:	The McRaes were Jane and John.



	M:	John. Okay. And do you know Jane’s maiden name, or—? C:	No, I don’t.

	M:	Okay. But, so John—they were also from the Ocala area, or some part of Marion County thereabouts, I guess.

	C:	Uh-huh.



	M:	Okay. Did you ever meet them?



	C:	No. I never met my grandparents. Never did. They were gone before we came around.

	M:	Do you know much—I mean, were they landowners, I guess? Because there were a lot of farms—

	C:	And I’m going to add to that: Sarah Jane. M:	Okay, Sarah Jane. Okay.





	C:	What was her maiden name? I think it was Fairley, F-A-I-R-L-E-Y. I’m almost certain of it. Mmhm.

	M:	Okay. But, so did they have a farm in the Ocala area? Or, what—



	C:	Yeah. As an extension of the family, yes, they did. And they were one of those rural families that owned the farm.

	M:	Okay. So, did you hear any stories about them growing up? C:	Not many. Not really.

	M:	Okay.



	C:	Not many, except that they were very strict on their girls. And they would always take their family back to North Carolina for family reunions. So, they had extended family as well up in the rural North Carolina area. Up in the Laurinburg area.

	M:	So is that where they came from, I guess, or—?



	C:	Yes. Yes. That’s where they—their extended family came from there. And Sarah Jane was from that area. That’s what it was. And they would always take their kids back to the “homecomings,” they would call them. And Sarah’s nickname was “Pet”—P-E-T. And everyone would look forward to Pet bringing the twins and their sister back home. They had an older sister. Three girls.

	M:	Do you know why she moved to Ocala, or—?



	C:	I think she was following John. [Laughter] I’m pretty certain that was her reason. M:	It happens. It happens. Okay. So, what was your mother like?

	C:	Oh, my mom was just a ball of fire. She made certain that—well, I’ll put it this way: in Ocala, in our elementary school, and in junior high school, we had





spelling bees. They’re not so common anymore these days, except for the national—I mean, they still have them, of course. But they were common when I was growing up. And I think I won every spelling bee from first to sixth grade.

And if I didn’t, there were consequences! [Laughter] They weren’t severe or anything, but it just meant you would spend the next two hours, in addition to the other hours, learning how to spell words. These words. My godmother was also an elementary school educator. So, she was down with that. She was like, “Yeah, Martha. You need to get that boy in here, because he should have been spelling that word.” And this was in prep for the overall contest. We would have internal classroom contests amongst each other, and that would get you to represent your grade, first through sixth. So, my mom was a stickler for excellence. She insisted at an early age that we would all go to college, and she knew—well, she just had a plan for us. She was a wonderful lady who was the alpha female of the three sisters, although the older sister thought that she was. The three of them knew, in fact, who really was. And you may have heard about the—from Mary C.—the three of them, and how they related to each other. But they would always end with, according to Mary C., “Isn’t that right, Martha?” [Laughter] They’d always check with Martha. But she was a great lady, a wonderful educator who cared about her family, about her community, about her students; a very caring and loving lady. Yeah.

	M:	And, I’m guessing she had at least graduated high school to be a teacher. C:	Mmhm. She graduated from Bethune-Cookman.





	M:	Okay, so she went to Bethune. In Ocala, where did she go to school? Was that at Howard, or at Fessenden, or—?

	C:	Oh, yeah. Oh yeah. At Howard Academy.



	M:	Okay. So she went to—did she ever talk about Mary McLeod Bethune? Did she meet her over there?

	C:	Oh, yes. Absolutely. Yeah. And they talked about what a wonderful lady she was.



And how they didn’t realize, at that time, in the early years, what a wonderful person that she was, and what a historical difference she would make. Mmhm.

	M:	So, did she teach at Howard Elementary? Is that where she was teaching, or where—?

	C:	She taught at Madison Street Elementary. M:	Madison Street, okay.

	C:	Mmhm. And she also taught at Fessenden, and she taught for a while at Reddick. But Madison Street is where she ended up. She taught in several of the rural schools in the Marion County area, but ended up at Madison Street. And speaking of which, she spoke highly of Ms. Mary McLeod Bethune. She really did. I think she revered that lady, when she finally realized the value that Ms.

Bethune brought to education. Yep.



	M:	It seems like everyone who came in contact with her really had— C:	They revered her, Mmhm.

	M:	So how—I mean, what was the household like in terms of—your mother had gone to school with Mary McLeod Bethune, who had a very—I mean, that school was not just to teach you math and things. She wanted to teach, cultivate a





sense of self-reliance, and strength. And your father ended up in the March on Washington years later. I don’t want to say “Was there a civil rights ethic in the household?” But I mean, what were you taught about senses of equality, or—was there anything about your household that kind of prepared you for becoming the first Black athlete on scholarship here at UF?

	C:	Yeah, there was no tangible sense of that. There was no concerted effort to say that “You must reach out, and you must be a pioneer, and you must be the first,” or “You must do this or that or the other.” But the emphasis was, “You must be a part of this movement. You must be a part of this concerted effort to change things.” It was not about individuals or individuality. It was about being a part of the Movement. And they encouraged that. And I remember distinctly, my father saying, “As long as you are obedient, as long as you obey the law, I want you to participate.” And my mother did the same. She encouraged us. And I understood that. At some point, you could cross the line and join those who were on the opposite end of things, and being violent, or doing some things that were illegal, or maybe even immoral or whatever they might be. But they encouraged us to not cross that line. To when you get to that point, turn around, and march back in the direction from whence you came. Get away from that. Don’t be involved in that. That’s the worst thing that you can do, is to be a part of that element of illegal behavior, immoral behavior. Things that will get you in trouble. “Stick with the principles,” that’s what they espoused. Dad was very much an advocate of equal rights. And he so wanted to go to Washington, D.C., to be a part of that March on Washington, but unfortunately they could only send a certain number





of people. And as it turned out, the opportunity opened up at the last second. And one of the men who was slated to go could not go. And he was able to jump in there and become a part of that celebrated March on Washington, the very first one. So, he was very proud of that. That was something he talked about until his dying day, one of his crowning moments. And I think that it was unequivocally one of the best moments of his life. That and getting his high school diploma.

	M:	Did he—so were your parents involved with the NAACP in Ocala?



	C:	They were, yeah. Yeah. And my dad was a member of the Hunting and Fishing Club. [Laughter]

	M:	Oh, was he? Okay. C:	Absolutely.

	M:	Didn’t know that.



	C:	Oh, yeah. He would be gone late into the night, hunting and fishing, as it were! [Laughter] Hunting and fishing. And that was another thing that he was very proud of: protecting the members of the community. And he did that knowing that he could, at any moment, be in peril of his own life. But without regard to that, he did it anyway—which taught us something, too. You know, there are some things that you have to rise to the occasion. You have to rise above the thoughts of your own demise, your own peril, and just go forth with the intent of accomplishing something great. Protecting your loved ones, protecting your family, bringing about equality among the races, et cetera, et cetera. Yeah. There’s a higher goal that’s far beyond our personal concerns.





M:  Did you understand at that time—because I guess you were a young teenager, kind of, when he would have been starting with the Hunting and Fishing Club— did you understand what he was doing at that time, or is that—?

	C:	Didn’t have a clue, at that time. [Laughter] I only learned a few years later, or a couple years later. You know, we thought they were just kind of going out there, and just kind of looking around, making sure everything was okay. But we found out later, it went a little beyond that—it was far beyond that. Wow, did I—it opened my eyes! Because I had no idea it was like that. They were literally protecting, and they were ready to protect. They were armed! [Laughter] It was quite a revelation, when I found out the extent of the Hunting and Fishing Club, and what they were involved with. Boy, that was great!

	M:	Was that surprising about your father, or did it make sense when you—



	C:	I don’t think it was surprising about him, because he was down with it. The surprising thing was, suppose something had literally happened: he was right there. And, voluntarily, you know? He volunteered to do that.

	M:	Did he ever tell you any stories later about being in the Hunting and Fishing Club, or—?

	C:	Sure did. Oh, yeah. I can remember one specific one, where they had a tip that somebody was going to attempt to do something, attempt to get at one of the civil rights leaders in Marion County at that time. So, they had a specific strategy to combat that. [Laughter] And he told me they lined up in wherever they were, with their cars hidden from view, and as this person approached their position—they had signals or something, I don’t know how they did this, but—all of the sudden,





the night turned into day, with bright lights. And the quietness of the night turned into just chaos, a chaotic chorus of voices warning, “You need to turn around and go back.” And it was—[Laughter] It was something that he was really, really proud of; the fact that they caught this person completely off-guard, and they were ready to protect this civil rights leader in Ocala to that extent. It was something else! We’ve heard several stories like that over the years about Marion County Hunting and Fishing Club.

	M:	It sounds intense. I mean, they were— C:	Yeah, they were ready.

	M:	—for real.



	C:	They were real.



	M:	Did your dad ever talk about how he got involved? Was he, did he start early on, or did he kind of volunteer to join up, or—?

	C:	Yeah, he was right there at the very beginning. Yeah. It was something that, a part of it was the fact that, well, he was going to work. His number one thing was provide for his family. And he worked six days a week, took Sundays off, and when he was off work, that’s when he would want to give back or try to do something to help out. So, he was down with it right from the start, right in the very beginning, he was a part of it.

	M:	Was he—I know some of the founding members were from Mt. Moriah. Was that your church, or—

	C:	No.



	M:	—was his participation just unrelated to that?





	C:	It was unrelated, yeah. There were a myriad of church members involved. I don’t think it had to do with a specific church. It may have founded itself in a local church, but it extended throughout the community. Mmhm.

	M:	Okay. So, one of the leaders of the Movement in Ocala was Frank Pinkston. Do you remember anything about him?

	C:	Sure, yeah. He was a wonderful pastor, and a revered leader. Revered because of his fearlessness. I mean, despite the threats that were issued—and I think I learned a lot from him as well, in that regard. Because I may have mentioned to you, I was threatened as well when offered the scholarship to come to the University of Florida. And what I learned from him was, despite those threats, you had to continue doing what you set out to do, or you turn around and go back, which means nothing is accomplished—or, very little is accomplished if you succumb to those threats, if you bow down to those threats, if you give in to those threats. So, without even realizing it at the time, I think I learned quite a bit from Reverend Pinkston. He was a fiery leader. He was a powerful speaker. He could evoke emotions unimaginable in the folks that he was leading. And it was just a wonderful thing to experience during those times. They were called Mass Meetings, and Frank Pinkston would get up there and just fire everybody up, and the next morning we would be right back downtown with those picket signs, and marching, and sitting in, and doing those things, that made a difference. Or, that could have made a difference, and did. Yeah. Frank Pinkston, never forget him. Mmhm.





	M:	How did you start going to those Mass Meetings? Was that just, when they started, you were just going, or—?

	C:	The church where they held the Mass Meetings was called Covenant. Covenant Missionary Baptist Church. And it was literally—one, two, three—four blocks from where we lived. So, it was very easy for me to go there, and of course, my parents allowed us to do so. It was the natural thing to do, to be a part of that process. And it was something we wanted to do. So, it was very natural to just go there and be a part of it.

	M:	Do you remember any of the—I know they brought Ralph Abernathy down at one point, Jackie Robinson came down at another—do you remember any of those outside speakers coming in, or—?

	C:	I do recall some of them coming in. I don’t recall the moment, though. Because we were just more into, “Okay, what’s next? Where are the signs? Let’s get something going on here.” [Laughter] That—Jackie Robinson, and Ralph Abernathy, that’s for the preachers, and the adults. We want to get out on the streets, we want to demonstrate, we want to sit in. We were waiting for the stores to open, and we were crawling under the church, looking for hidden items. And doing things that teenagers do. You know? Yeah. I recall them being there, but not the moment.

M:  Do you remember any—well, do you remember the training? Mary Williams has told me there was—Pinkston and others used to drill the nonviolent protesters in terms of, you had to know the laws about picketing, and how far apart you had to be, and you had to know—





	C:	Mmhm.



	M:	Do you remember anything about that, that experience of learning and being kind of vetted to go out there?

	C:	Yep. We were schooled in the entire procedure, from start to finish. From leaving the church to returning to the church, and everything in between that should happen, everything that could happen, everything that was supposed to happen, and they taught us how to react in the event that unplanned events should occur. If someone is injured, if someone is threatened, if someone gets personally insulted; we learned from A to Z how to conduct a demonstration. I don’t know where that knowledge came from, or if they were in turn schooled on that stuff, or instinctively, they just imparted it to us. But we did learn. And it was very well- received, by all of us who were involved. Because it was something new, something different—of course, we hadn’t done any of this before. But, we did it proudly, and we did it knowing that this could make a difference in our own lives, as well as those of people who were to follow us. Yep, I remember that training quite well. We took it to the point of just short of physical harm. I mean, literally, in your face. And some people were asked to stand aside, because you’d get in people’s faces; even though it’s a training situation, they can’t handle it. And so, we learned a lot about each other, as well. You’re going to have to be able to control yourself, despite the circumstances.

	M:	It’s not easy.



	C:	Yeah. It was great training, though. Great training. Don’t know how we would’ve made it without that.





	M:	Do you remember any stories from picketing, or any of the other demonstrations that you did?

	C:	Well, yeah. And they are typical of stories that you’ve probably seen in films across the U.S. Very typical. Folks getting in your face, folks calling you names. I remember one instance of—it’s barely still there; there’s a small scar—yeah, it’s right there, I can feel it—where a staple went into my arm. One of those staples. Somebody shot a staple. So, naturally, I thought I was dying. I’m like, “Weeeaaauggh!” [Laughter] “No! This is it! I’m gone! I’m down! Man down!” So, that was a trying experience, but a good learning experience for me, in that this is real: people are serious about keeping the races apart. As serious as we were about bringing them together. They were equally serious! And that staple in the arm was a testament to that. And a sub-story on that staple in the arm: when I had to leave the picket line—this was on a picket line. We were walking out on the sidewalk, in front of a store, and somebody drove by, and pfft! Because I left the picket line, I was not arrested with the rest of that crew that was on that particular picket line. And I think to this day, “Gosh, I guess—I don’t know if I was lucky or unlucky.” Because the jail experience is a matter of pride. “Yeah, I went to jail in the Civil Rights Movement!” Or, if it was one of those, when you fill out an application, “Have you ever been to jail?” “Nope! Never been there.” [Laughter] So, fortunate but unfortunate at the same time. I’m like, “Okay, I can live with it, either way.” Yep.





	M:	Do you have any recollection of—I think her name was Miriam Hampton? But there were, kind of, adults—I mean, the Hunting and Fishing Club would sometimes be watching the protests or other things, if I understand—

	C:	Mmhm.



	M	– but there would also be adults who were kind of, I don’t know, supervisors, or kind of there to look out for the younger—do you remember any of those folks?

	C:	Oh yes, indeed. I remember quite a few of them. Mrs. Miriam Hampton was the wife of the local dentist, Dr. L.R. Hampton, LeRoy Hampton. And she was one of several ladies, matriarchs, who would just take on that responsibility. Purposely, voluntarily. It was a collective of ladies who took it upon themselves to serve in that capacity. We—not literally took it for granted, but we didn’t think of it as anything special. It was what they had been doing all of their lives. Except now, it was attached to something very significant, very special. This is related to the Civil Rights Movement in Ocala. And those ladies, those matriarchs, had always—they were part of the village that I spoke about earlier. But before I could get home, in the old days—my parents would know exactly what was going on, long before I got to the house. And so, they took it upon themselves to do this out of just pure servitude, just service. Just a good heart. Miriam Hampton, what was—oh, gosh. There were several ladies, I’ll put it that way, who served in that capacity. And did it unselfishly for a long time.

	M:	So, how—I mean, you spoke a little about this—but how did your understanding of Ocala change through all this, because I guess it sounds like you started to





see sides of things that maybe hadn’t been as visible before, or—I mean, did it change anything for you?

	C:	For me, personally, yes, in a sense. It helped me to understand what needed to be done to bring about a change, and that was probably the most significant part of it. And it also served to open my eyes as to the divisiveness of the community. Of course you knew it existed; there were places you couldn’t go. So, you know that there’s a divide: “You’re here, we’re here, let’s keep it that way.” Although the movement to bring those pieces together was a concerted effort, especially within the Black community, there were those in the White community who joined us as well. And I applaud those folks, I give them a great deal of accolades, simply because they probably faced more of a—not a sense of harm, but a sense of isolation, of being discredited, in their own communities. A sense of disloyalty to what people might consider should have been a common cause of segregation. So, they faced quite a bit of trepidation, maybe, angst, by joining us in this movement. But join us they did, despite the consequences.

	M:	And I did have a few more questions. We are at about an hour; is it okay to—? C:	Mmhm.

	M:	Okay. Do you remember—one of the White activists who was jailed, and actually, this was one of the major events is then occupying the jail, and a number of protesters were arrested—was a guy named Zev Aelony, or [pronounces differently]. I don’t know how to pronounce it. A guy from Minnesota who was jailed. Do you remember anything about that?

	C:	I don’t.





	M:	Okay. Just thought I’d check.



	C:	I don’t recall that. Yeah, I’m not familiar with it.



	M:	Well, what about—do you have any memories of Pinkney Woodbury?



	C:	Oh, yeah. Mr. Woodbury was a great influence in the community. He was a natural historian. For some reason, he just seemed to know everything about everything. He seemed to know everybody in the community. He seemed to know things that were not commonly known by everybody. He could just piece all these things together. Just a one-man historian. And he was one who was willing to share that with anybody. He didn’t see it as anything special; it was just a natural talent for him, and a very special interest for him. And somehow, he finally got to the point where he actually wrote that book. I think it was after being encouraged by some of his peers—friends, family—to write that history down.

Because it was important. It was not recorded, except in bits and pieces here and there, scattered all over. It was not recorded until he came and wrote that book.

So, yeah. Mr. Pinkney Woodbury. What a guy. I wish I could have spent more time with him, because he was just a fount of knowledge. Yeah. Great guy.

	M:	And one other question; you’ve covered parts of this, but as far as just to return quickly to the Hunting and Fishing Club, the way that the Movement gets portrayed today, people like to stick to the idea of total nonviolence, just kind of— as if there wouldn’t have been a Hunting and Fishing Club in the background. Did your father ever talk about self-defense, or the right to kind of protect oneself?

	C:	As it relates to the Hunting and Fishing Club or the overall Movement? M:	Yeah. Either or both, however.





	C:	Yeah, I mean, he talked about—from a personal perspective—being able to defend your family, if it came down to it. Being familiar with various techniques of defense, especially firearms. He let us know that firearms are to be held in a great sense of—you can’t play with firearms, is what he taught us. You have to be very serious and very careful with firearms. But in the sense of the Hunting and Fishing Club, he eventually let it be known to us, because he held back from us as his own children at that time. And I think a part of the reason was, he said later, was he didn’t want us to fear for him. The other part of it was, he didn’t want us to think that he was doing something that might be held in contempt by the rest of the world, the rest of the community, the rest of the neighborhood.

Because not everybody was a part of that Hunting and Fishing Club. There was some who opposed it. And we found out later, there was some who did not want to be a part of that. And so, he kept that to himself to some extent. But he did share with us the value of being a part of something like that, and the value of your personal safety as well as family concerns.

	M:	Do you remember mostly community members who supported the Civil Rights Movement in Ocala, or do you remember some that kind of—I know there were people who either tried to stay away from it, or who did not support. Do you remember any of that kind of dispute or debate in the community?

	C:	I do remember some of that. And I can remember distinctly, some people didn’t suffer physically from that, but they did suffer from being ostracized by the other members of the Black community for not participating. Which was somewhat strange to me, because my thought at the time, being the innocent one, was





“Hey, so they choose not to go down and picket or protest.” And of course, their children can’t go unless the parents permit them. But the parents decided that they don’t want to be a part of it. And some members of the local community took it upon themselves to publicize that, to make it a public venue. They did this, literally, by painting their homes, by egging, or papering, or whatever. Nothing that was permanent or damaging to the extent where a person’s home was damaged. I mean, paint can be washed or repainted. But it was a temporary sign to the community that “This person is not playing the game, y’all!” And they let that be a public notice. So, those folks, some of them were well-respected in the community, and for the most part—I remember my mom saying, “Listen: they’re going to do what they think is right. They have their own reasons.” She let us know that “I don’t want you to be a part of that painting people’s houses. So don’t go out there and do that. Leave them alone, and we’ll just continue doing what we do.” A lot of lessons learned during that era.

	M:	I’d imagine. And also, just, with your father being in the Hunting and Fishing Club—although you didn’t understand at the time—did you have any sense of the danger? I mean, you talked about going under the church to look for things that might have been put there, but was it mostly exciting on your end, or did you have some sense of danger or the risk involved?

	C:	This was all about excitement. This was all about having something to do— although the risk part of it never occurred to us. But it was obvious that there was a risk. I mean, the ultimate risk of serious injury or death could occur. At that moment, it was, “All right, let’s go find that bomb!” Are you nuts? [Laughter] We





didn’t think of it at that time. So, like, “Let’s do what we’ve been told to do. We’re going to the church, and we’ll lay there during the Mass Meeting, and we’ll walk around, and if we see something, we’ll say something.” It was a wonderful time. [Laughter] A wonderful experience. But sometimes, we did things that we never even thought would be harmful. But could have been. Could easily have been. Yep. And then, somebody came up with the bright idea of, “Why don’t we just put lights under the church, and all you have to do is just stand there, and watch?” Finally, somebody realized that. So, that’s what we did.

	M:	That simplifies it a lot.



	C:	Took away our fun. Man! [Laughter]



	M:	And it sounds like the church was crowded. C:	It was packed.

	M:	I mean, I know people say it was—yeah—



	C:	This church was packed to the gills. Every night. Lots of singing, lots of preaching, lots of instructing. Lots of motivating. I mean, it was just absolutely a fantastic time in that local community, bringing people together in an unprecedented way that was remarkable. Absolutely remarkable.

	M:	Do you remember any of the songs you used to sing at the meetings?



	C:	Well, of course, the old favorite, “We Shall Overcome.” That one, that was the one that raised the roof. And there were several others. I don’t remember their names, but I guarantee you if you hit the first few words, I’d just probably take off with it. But there were several that we would sing on a regular basis.





	M:	Were any of them specific to Ocala, or were they kind of general Movement songs?

	C:	General Movement. I don’t think we had any that were specific to Ocala. Not that I recall.

	M:	Okay. So, the last question I have is actually kind of unrelated to everything else, but you talked about the fun of following the fire trucks and things. Did you ever go to Paradise Park?

	C:	Oh, yeah! Oh yes, absolutely. Paradise Park was an extension of Silver Springs, Florida. And of course, you’ve heard of it. And we were not allowed to go to Silver Springs, Florida. We had a different place a few miles away from Silver Springs that we would go to, and it was Paradise Park. Paradise Park was one of the best recreational venues that I’ve ever been to in my life. Of course, as a youngster growing up, it was just a ton of fun. We would go occasionally, in later years, to Silver Springs, and get fifty cents or something from the glass bottom boat drivers, who were all Black. And the drivers would tell us, “Okay, near the end of the ride, I want you to take these two quarters, and literally drop them or throw them into the bottom of this boat,” which was glass. Glass-bottom boat.

And that would inspire the other tourists to, “Oh! Okay, so we need to tip the driver.” And they would start doing the same thing. But that was our task. One little Black boy on a boat—or girl—sitting in the corner, just waiting for the end of the ride, and then kind of look at the driver, and he goes, “Mm, okay, throw your money in there.” And you would get fifty cents, a dollar, a dollar and a half, or two dollars from the driver just for riding the boat. Because you caused his salary to





go up by that amount. Or by whatever amount those tips were. That’s how they made a living. Yeah, I remember that quite well. But Paradise Park was unique. It provided a recreational outlet unlike any other at that time, in that area. It had all of the tourist amenities that were available at Silver Springs. For instance, there was a boat ride called the Jungle Cruise. A big boat would come along, and everybody would get on and just cruise up and down the river, seeing the sights and whatever. Whatever is there. Glass-bottomed boat, of course, would come down the river from Silver Springs. We would get on that boat—just Blacks—and tour the river, watching stuff underneath, and go up towards Silver Springs, but make that U-turn before you got too close. But those things were available to us, and the sense of community that was there was incredible. They would have pageants, they would have contests—beauty pageants, they called them then— various contests, oratory contests. And this was incredible stuff. Who would think of having an oratory contest? Plays, short plays. Dance contests. Just things going on all the time out there at Paradise Park.

	M:	Were these all high school students, or were these adults? Everybody.



	C:	This was the entire age range, from little kids to old folks. Yeah. It just covered the entire range. Yep. Never forget it. And there are pictures—I hope I can maybe pull some up for you, if you’d like some.

	M:	Yeah. Oh, yeah. I’d appreciate that. C:	Mmhm. I’ll find some.

	M:	Are there any stories you remember in particular of Paradise Park? I mean, you covered plenty, I’m just asking—okay. [Laughter] Maybe too many.





	C:	Wow. Yeah. There’s just stories just flying through my head right now. In particular, I can recall being a young boy growing up, and reaching the teenage years, when the hormones start to flow, seeing those young ladies who were in those contests, and thinking, “My goodness! Wow! Those ladies sure are pretty!” And we would just, a group of us, would just gawk at those ladies, who were simply just being a part of a pageant, and we would just be incredulous at how beautiful they were. There are some really beautiful ladies in Ocala. And what that did for me was help me to realize, “Oh boy, you must be changing. Because last year, you didn’t care about that.” Actually, my dad helped me to realize that. He goes, “Boy, how come all of the sudden you notice these ladies?” “I guess ‘cause they’re pretty, Daddy.” That’s when I got the birds and bees discussion. [Laughter] Yep. Paradise Park was a—but there are many, many stories I could tell you about Paradise Park. But just being there was a fantastic experience.

One that could not possibly be relived, or recreated. I don’t think it could be.



	M:	So it was an important part of life in Ocala, Paradise Park? C:	I would say so.

	M:	Sounds that way. C:	Mmhm.

	M:	Okay. I guess this is a good place to close, unless you had anything to add.



	C:	No, nothing special to add. I’m glad that I was able to be of some benefit with this—

	M:	Oh yeah. Lot of benefit, yeah.





	C:	—historical perspective of the hometown. And if we want to take it up more, that’s fine.

	M:	Okay.



	C:	Yeah. We can do that at a different time.



	M:	Well, excellent. And thanks for coming out and joining us today. C:	You’re quite welcome.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, December 23, 2015 Audit edited by:	Patrick Daglaris, April 11, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019