AAHP 809; Ortiz; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 809 Paul Ortiz 11-3-2019

Lecture by Paul Ortiz on November 3, 2019 22 minutes | 11 pages



Abstract: At the 100 Year Remembrance Ocoee Election Day Massacre Ceremony, Dr. Paul Ortiz discusses the legacy of the 1920 Ocoee Election Day massacre and the efforts subsequently undertaken to educate the public on the massacre's history. He recalls the efforts of Bill Maxwell and the City of Ocoee Human Relations Diversity Board in making the commemoration of the massacre possible during the 2010 MLK Day parade and during the 100 Year Remembrance ceremony. Dr. Ortiz expands to historically situate the Ocoee Massacre amidst an array of similar anti-Black pogroms that occurred during the early 20th century in response to Black economic prosperity and political participation.





Keywords: [Florida, Black community, Ocoee, political activism, voter suppression, Jim Crow, remembrance, truth and reconciliation, Ocoee massacre, racial violence]



AAHP 809

Interviewee: Dr. Paul Ortiz Interviewer: None

Date: November 3, 2020



	O:	Well, hello everyone. My name is Paul Ortiz. I am a professor of history and Director of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida. First of all, I want to thank Bill Maxwell and the City of Ocoee’s Human Relations Diversity Board for inviting me to this amazing, most important event, not only in the history of Ocoee and the history of Florida, but really in the history of our nation. The hundred-year remembrance ceremony that your city is holding is such a vital event in the history of this nation. And let me explain what I mean by this. We are in a moment now, nationally, of reflection: thinking about our history, our culture, our past. Thinking about issues like racial equity, racial injustice: how we move closer to equality and justice for all, how we live up to those August words in our Declaration of Independence? What you’re doing today, and what you’ve been doing this entire week, and what you’ve been doing for many, many years, which it has been a great privilege for me to participate in, what you’ve been doing is a critical part of recapturing a sense of equality before the laws, this idea that we are born equal, and that we have equal citizenship rights--or should have equal citizenship rights. So, I want to reflect back to my first years being involved with the City of Ocoee. I received a phone call late one evening in the fall of 2009, and that phone call actually initiated a decade-plus friendship with a gentleman, a fellow military veteran, who became a dear friend of mine.

And, of course, I’m talking about Mr. Bill Maxwell. And Bill called me so late one evening in 2009 that I kind of wondered about it. I’m a night person, I do most of my writing, and writing letters of recommendation, and grading, and so forth well





into the early morning hours. And I do the kind of scholarship that, you may have guessed, that sometimes elicits a little bit of anger, animosity. I’m not unused to getting prank calls or angry emails. And so, it was a little bit past midnight, I believe, on this autumn evening in 2009 when I received this phone call. And I wondered whether or not even to answer the phone because I didn’t recognize the number that the person was calling me from. I’m glad I did answer that phone call though, because I answered it, and the gentleman on the other side of the call was none other than Bill Maxwell. And he said, “Professor Ortiz, the City of Ocoee, the Human Relations Diversity Board, would like to invite you down to give the keynote about the Ocoee Massacre for our annual MLK Day parade and celebration.” And, Bill, I’m not sure if I’ve ever told you this part of the story, but I almost hung up the phone on you because I thought, “This has got to be a prank call. The City of Ocoee inviting me to come down and give a talk about the Ocoee Election Day Massacre? This has got to be a prank.” Right? I’m glad I didn’t hang up the phone because Bill Maxwell really rolled out his philosophy, his thoughts, his ideas about the importance of the massacre, the importance of commemorating the massacre, the importance of using the history of the massacre to bring people together. He sold me. And I travelled to Ocoee and gave the keynote address for the MLK Day parade and celebration in 2010. And my wife travelled with me, Sheila Payne, who many of you know as well. And what an amazing experience it was for us. The city really welcomed us with open arms. We had a lot of discussions, a lot of conversations. I learned about the amazing local efforts that your community, that your city, that your county, has





been involved in in terms of really bringing the history of the Ocoee Election Day Massacre to light. I remember talking to Lester Dabs, who many of you know and remember as well, and I remember talking to Lester and feeling a sense of relief from him that after so many years of having to bear the burden of telling this story, that he realized he had reached a point in his life— I’ll never forget him telling me, that he was so relieved now that so many other people, like members of the Human Relations Diversity Board, people like Bill Maxwell, and others in the city and county were now really picking up the threads of this story and bringing it to light and no longer trying to censor, or hide, or bury the story of the Ocoee Election Day Massacre. And so, I am a great fan and a great admirer of the work that you all are doing in Ocoee. This remembrance ceremony, this series of events, is not the end. It’s not, in some ways, the final word, right?

We’re going to use this as a springboard to continue to tell the truth about what happened in those two terrible days in November in 1920. Let me move now to the actual events of the Ocoee Election Day Massacre, and then I want to go back to talking about why I admire so much the work that you’ve done locally in Ocoee. So, the Ocoee Election Day Massacre was not an isolated event. Anti- Black massacres and pogroms were carried out, and have been carried out, by White Americans, really, literally from the inception of this nation’s history. But the period between 1917 and 1923 witnessed a really virulent upswing of anti- Black massacres and anti-Black pogroms, not just in Florida, but nationally.

Briefly, we talk about the 1917 anti-Black massacre that took place in East Saint Louis. 1919, of course, Red Summer, the Chicago Anti-Black riots. Tulsa, 1921,





the destruction of the entire Black Wall Street neighborhood in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Ocoee, of course, in 1920. Rosewood in 1923. Elaine, Arkansas, taking a step back, in the summer of 1919. All examples of anti-Black massacres, anti-Black pogroms. But why was this? Why was there this upsurge between 1917 and 1923? Well, we can turn to the great African American scholar W.E.B. Du Bois for the answer. W.E.B. Du Bois, in a series of remarkable sociological studies conducted between 1900 and World War One, exposed the fact that African Americans were making tremendous economic, political, and social strides in the United States, not just in the North but in the South. Black Floridians were making strides in land ownership, in farm ownership, in home ownership. African Americans who moved up to the North, to cities like Chicago, Detroit, New York, Pittsburg, et cetera, et cetera, were making political strides. They were beginning to gain the right to vote, they were beginning to exercise the elective franchise, and beginning to play a very important role in national politics. These anti-Black massacres and riots that White people carried out in places like Ocoee, like Longview, Texas, like East Saint Louis, like Chicago, were designed to drive back, to crush, and to end Black political, economic, and social progress. And let’s be clear about this: these were not the actions of mobs. These were actions that were highly organized to maintain the structure of White supremacy and White nationalism that, for too long, has encumbered democracy in this country. And this is the reason why I think what you’re doing today is so important. What you’ve been doing this entire week is so important in terms of the remembrance ceremony. You’re bringing us back to where we should have been at the





beginning: talking about how we reach equity. Right? How we challenge racism in all its forms? How we challenge White supremacy? So, let me talk about the positive aspects of what was happening in 1920, because that allows us to tell a broader kind of version of the story of the Ocoee Massacre. And it may seem strange for me to use the term positive, but what was happening in the months after the end of the armistice, after the end of World War One, to the 1920 presidential election is that African Americans in Florida, in thirty-five counties including Orange County, including Western Orange County, had organized one of the most remarkable social movements in American history. What I mean by this is Black Floridians from Pensacola to Jacksonville to Gainesville to Saint Pete to Orlando to Miami organized a voter registration movement where tens of thousands of African Americans had paid their poll taxes, were registering to vote, and were urging each other to march to the polls on election day. This seems so strange for us, and I have to admit that when I first started researching this, I had to kind of really pinch myself numerous times as a historian. I’d never heard of the Florida Voter Registration Movement, and when I began to unearth it, it challenged a lot of my preconceived notions about American history. I was taught that the Civil Rights movement began in the 1950s, with either the Brown

v. Board of Education ruling by the Supreme Court, or the Montgomery Bus Boycott, or both. To see that Black Floridians had organized this incredible Civil Rights movement three decades earlier, in 1920, was a wake-up call for me. It was humbling. It was revelatory. But then I began to look even deeper, and I realized something very important about Black history in Florida, which is that





Black people in Florida have been, from the very beginning, the key to liberty of this entire country. The first free Black community on this continent existed just a two-hour drive north of where we’re holding this event now, Fort Mose, just outside of the Spanish colony in Saint Augustine. That was a free Black community, right? And it existed during the colonial period. You jump forward, Reverend Howard Thurman, one of the greatest Christian theologians in this country’s history, a man known as the mentor for Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and also a native Floridian. And Howard Thurman tells us that he gained his insights into Christianity through his grandmother, who had been a slave in Madison County. And so, Howard Thurman becomes this internationally known theologian but he’s a native Floridian. James Weldon Johnson, a native Floridian. Mary McCoy Bethune, although from Georgia, comes to Daytona in 1904 and founds this remarkable Black educational institution for young African American women that is still active today, we know today as Bethune-Cookman. Philip Randolph, originally from Crescent City, becomes the organizer of not one, but two marches on Washington, right? The more famous one, in 1963, but he’s also the founding president of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters and Maids. And all these individuals are from Florida. And it makes you kind of pause. Why Florida? Well, it’s because of the strength and resilience of Black communities. These were the communities in Florida that sustained all these individuals. Mrs. Bethune relied upon the Black community in Volusia County and surrounding areas to sustain the Daytona Industrial School for Girls because it was the target of many Ku Klux Klan attacks, right? And in the months leading up to the 1920 election, all these





Black institutions: churches, lodges, secret societies, fraternities, insurance agents, labor unions, came together, and said “We’ve had it with White supremacy. We’re going to end the system. We’re going to break down one party rule in Florida. We’re going to regain the right to vote. We’re going to create equal educational opportunities for our children. We’re going to create equal employment opportunities for Black workers. We’re going to bring equal pay opportunities for Black teachers. We’re going to bring equal rights for Black citizens.” These were just a few of the ideas that animated the 1920 Florida Movement. They animated the work of Mr. Perry and Mr. Norman, of people like them. Emma Collier in Orlando. Orlando was a very strong base of this Black voter registration movement. So, this is what was at stake on election day in 1920. And now you have a much better understanding of why the White elite response to what Black citizens in Ocoee, and Jacksonville, and Saint Pete, and Tampa were trying to do. Now you understand why there was so much violence. And in my book Emancipation Betrayed, I talk about the epicenter of anti-Black violence being in Western Orange County, but it’s important to understand that Black Floridians all across the state were targeted for violence, by not only the Ku Klux Klan, but by members of law enforcement, for simply trying to vote.

Because the phrase “Simply trying to vote” hides the fact that if African Americans got the vote back, got the ballot back, in 1920, it would have turned this society upside down. It would have brought democracy to a state which at the time was a one-party rule state. I want to say a few words about Mr. Perry and Mr. Norman, because it’s very important that we remember their example





today. And the best, I think, the most revealing thing that one should remember about those two remarkable individuals is that they were part of a cohort of literally hundreds of Black organizers throughout Florida who were urging their fellow Black citizens to get registered to vote. But imagine what kind of courage it took for a Black person to become a qualified voter in Florida, in 1920. Let’s look at the history. When you asked a Black person to register to vote in Florida in 1920, you’re asking them to risk their life and their livelihood. Florida had the highest per capita lynching rate in the entire nation; higher than Georgia, higher than Alabama, higher than Mississippi. Many Black people were assassinated in the years leading up to 1920 simply for talking back to a White person. So, the fact that Mr. Norman and Mr. Perry were able to encourage so many Black Ocoeans to become qualified voters—and one day I hope we were able to find out exactly how many there were—speaks volumes. It speaks about the trust that they had earned in the Black community, it speaks about the confidence. But, above all, it speaks about the faith and hope that Black Ocoeans had that they were working to build a better day. And this is what makes the story so tragic, because that hope, of course, was shattered by the anti-Black massacre. And this is what we’re trying to remember, and trying to regain today, is the sense of dignity and struggle and striving that Black Ocoeans exhibited through their courage on that fateful election day in 1920. So, I want to close with kind of a brief observation about my decade-plus years of experience in Ocoee. Because, as I mentioned earlier, you invited me in 2010 to give the keynote address for your MLK Day parade and celebration. And then the Human Rights Diversity





Board and Bill Maxwell invited me back in 2020 to speak at the 2020 MLK Day parade and celebration. These two addresses have been among the greatest honors of my entire professional career, and I want to let you know I’m actually wearing my Key to the City of Ocoee on my lapel very proudly, I wear it as often as I can. And it’s been such a privilege and an honor to be able to kind of grow with you collaboratively and understanding to see how you’re using the history of this very tragic event, bringing the event to light to be with you at times that have been difficult. There have been tears, there’s been anger. Sometimes people get up and walk out of the room and shake their head--and they should. History should never be boring, friends, it should always be passionate. American history, especially, should make you cry, it should make you laugh, it should make you get up and shake your head, you know? It should give you joy; it should give you great anger--that’s the history of this country. It is a history of striving for equality, but it’s also the history of coming up short time and time and time again. But we’re Americans, we’re going to get this right someday, but the only way to get it right is to be honest and upright about our history. And that’s why I’m so proud about the events that you’ve been organizing for the hundred- year remembrance ceremony. Let me suggest where we might go next, collectively, building upon the successes you’ve had. What I would like to propose is, and I would like to offer the services of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida—we have been able to host the Human Relations Diversity Board and members of your city commission for past events. What I would like to see us do maybe two years from now, it doesn’t





have to have an exact timeline, is to hold a national symposium on the history of events like the Ocoee Massacre, to bring together people from Elaine, Arkansas, from Tulsa, Oklahoma, from Longview, Texas, from East Saint Louis, and to get together and to talk collectively about what these events mean to our nation, and how we might use what you’ve done in Ocoee as a model to create a national dialogue about finally trying to seriously eliminate racism. In conclusion, I want to give you major props for the work you’re beginning to do about thinking about school curriculum. Because, as you know, and again, this is a testament to the long-distance vision of the City of Ocoee and the Human Relations Diversity Board—the Governor of Florida, the State of Florida, has passed a law requiring all school districts to teach the story of the Ocoee Election Day Massacre. So, my charge to all of us today is to put that mandate which, we have to remember, is an unfunded mandate, we have to bring that mandate into reality. And we all can play a role as parents, as students, as concerned citizens, to make sure we go our respective school boards and say, “What types of resources do you need in order to implement a curriculum which will have lesson plans about the Ocoee Election Day Massacre? How can we work in tandem with existing institutions, like the African American history task force, like our wonderful regional and national universities and colleges? How can we work with educational foundations to develop curriculum around the Ocoee Election Day Massacre?” It’s more important than ever because the massacre highlights the perennial themes in American history: the struggle against voter citizenship, the struggle for civic engagement, the struggle for equality. This is the story of Ocoee at large.





And again, I’m just so proud of being able to be part of this endeavor. I wish I could be with you in person for the historical marker ceremony. Again, let’s not use this as a kind of an end, but let’s use this as a beginning to keep working for the historical pursuit of truth and justice. Thank you again for inviting me and have a wonderful, wonderful day.

[End of Speech]



Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, May 3, 2021 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, May 5, 2021