AAHP 211; Thompson; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 211 Gladys Thompson African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Darrius Woods on November 8, 2011 1 hour, 11 minutes | 25 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Ms. Gladys Thompson reflects on her life growing up in Taylor County and the Gainesville area. Her family lived in a predominantly White area because her mother worked for prominent White families in Lake Butler. Much of her family worked at Camp Blanding during World War II and her mother became a beautician under the guidance of Madam C.J. Walker. She witnessed riots at Lincoln High School during integration because White students were forced to attend. She ended up being able to take classes at the University of Florida while studying nursing because she worked as a histotechnologist in the labs at the College of Medicine. Ms. Thompson then worked in abortion clinics at North Florida Regional Hospital performing autopsies. Following that job, she worked at Alachua General Hospital working in Alzheimer’s research because she had experience with forensic anatomy.





[Keywords: African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Taylor County, Florida; Turpentine; Camp Blanding; Nursing]









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 211

Interviewee: Gladys Thompson Interviewer: Darrius Woods Date: November 8, 2011



	W:	Today is November 8th 2011. My name is Darrius Woods, and I’m here interviewing Ms. Gladys Thompson for the UF Oral History Department. So, Ms. Thompson, how old are you?

	T:	I’m eighty-two. I’ll be eighty-three in December. W:	And when were you born?

	T:	1927. December 25th, 1927



	W:	And, were you born here in Gainesville? T:	No, I was born in Taylor County.

	W:	Taylor County, where is that?



	T:	That’s up near Perry and Mayo, Florida. My daddy was a log—a teamster. And I was born out in the woods somewhere.

	W:	So, you weren’t born in a hospital?



	T:	Oh, no, no. In fact my age didn’t even—I had to get my age through census. You know, midwives back then didn’t always turn it in.

	W:	And do you have, like, brothers and sisters?



	T:	I had a half-brother and sisters that were much older than me. W:	So basically, you were the only child?

	T:	I was the only child. My daddy’s only child after he and my mom married.



	W:	Okay. But you said most of the people around that time was born, like, midwives gave birth to them?

	T:	Mmhm.



	W:	And you said your dad was a teamster?





	T:	He was a log sawyer, yes.



	W:	And that’s why you guys lived so far back in the woods?



	T:	We lived in the woods, and that’s a whole ‘nother story about how they would move the camps and whatnot. How we happened to wind up in Olustee because of interracial things. In fact, my dad got into it with the man in the commissary, and they was looking for him to lynch him. And they put in stops. Momma had the car, Daddy always had a car. And because they had moved the camp, he’d went off to work, break some horses or something for another camp. The man didn’t want to give him what he was due. His babbits, it was called. So, a man spit on him. Well, then he, natural, just and kicked him and knocked him down and all—this White man. So, he had to take to the woods, because my momma had went to Mayo with the car. And he tried to find her, but she was back home. And they come, and they put stops in front of the car and behind the car so that he couldn’t move it. You know, give them time to catch him. So, she said they come and they looked all through the house. I was just a little girl. And she said she had her gun wrapped up in her apron, because back then they would kill the whole family if they wanted to. Whatever they wanted to do. So, he come back up to the house. He said he had left his gun in the car; he always carried a gun, but the gun was in the car. So he come back to the house, and they pulled the boards—one of his friends stayed with Momma, and they pulled the boards up from under the house and let him in the house, so he could get, you know, his gun, and something to eat, and go back out to the swamp. So, he went to the swamp. And he went to a place they called Newnan’s Lake, up here almost





Alachua, where the train turned around. Because his friend had left the camp and come there. So what he did was, he found his old boss who was in Olustee. So, he went to Olustee, and after about four months before he could get us, when his boss sent some men out to move us—Momma and me—from the camp, and we moved to Olustee. And from Olustee, we went to Lake Butler. And we, my mom and those, you know, they worked for the White people back then. Momma, she cooked, and Daddy, he would go off and work for the log camps around here.

Until it was Hoover’s time, it was the Depression, like it is now. So, after Hoover’s time, they started the CC camp. I don’t know if you might remember. So Daddy went to the CC camp, which was also established in Olustee. We thought we were living good then, when we went to the CCC camp, because once again— but before then, while the Hoover time was on, Mr. Chestnut—you know, Chestnut Funeral Homes? His brother come to Lake Butler, and he was trying to get some of the Black women in the sewing room. They had sewing places where they made clothes; the government would make clothes and give to people. Well, because he tried to come and get the Blacks involved, they were looking for him to lynch him. Because they had a hanging tree out by Lake Butler’s lake, right out there in the swamp, where they had a hanging tree. As well as they had a hanging tree in Newberry. And so, my daddy come and brought him to Gainesville, to his brother. I can remember seeing Momma walk; she walked the floor and looked ‘til they come back. Because what they did, they got him and hid him in the rumble seat. Back then, they had a car that had the—I think it was a Ford—that had what you call a “rumble seat,” and they put him in





the rumble seat and brought him to Gainesville. That’s how we met the Chestnuts. Shortly, well, and we stayed up in a White community at first while Hoover time was going on. And I didn’t see no Black children, except when I went to church, and when I got old enough to go to school, for several years. And then, when World War II come—no, Camp Blanding, they built Camp Blanding, when World War II come on. So, a lot of the Black women start working in the White folks’ kitchens and yards and whatnot. And they got jobs at Camp Blanding. So, by that time, Daddy was out of the CC camp and all; he went to working at Camp Blanding. And it was where my momma taken her sister’s children, and my brother, he and his wife and children come to stay there. And they were so bad about picking up Black boys and putting them in jail and all. But the reason why we moved to Gainesville, because when we got to the eight grade—because I went on to the ninth grade—it wasn’t a high school for Black people in Union County. So when you finished school—first we had a little one- room school house, then they build another room and made us a two-room schoolhouse. But they still didn’t have a high school. We had to pass by the high school, and we had to walk the railroad. Because if we tried to walk the road, when the school buses go by, they would throw things out at us Black children.

So, we had to walk the railroad to go to our little school.



	W:	And how far was that walk?



	T:	Oh, it was about as far as from here to the University of Florida, where we had to walk. Or maybe further. I guess it was—no, it was further than that. About as far





as from here to the mall where we had to walk to school from where we was living at that time, and we had to walk the railroad.

	D:	And, but you went to school? Like, every day? T:	Oh yeah, uh-huh. Mmhm.

	W:	And you said, you grew up in a White neighborhood? When your dad was— T:	At first, uh-huh, until my—and the reason we were in the White neighborhood,

my momma worked for some of the most prominent White people in Lake Butler—such as the Riherds, the Maynors, the McGills, and those people. So, we had a little house that faced the railroad. [Laughter] And we lived up there, and my mom, she used to cooked and wash and all for years. They cooked and washed for the White people there in Lake Butler.

	W:	And how was it growing up in that White neighborhood? Were you ever able to go outside, and play, and stuff?

	T:	Oh yeah. With me, I could go all over the place because Momma was working, and I played with the White children up there. In fact, my daddy build us a playhouse up in the oak tree in our yard. And the White children, some of them, found us, and those that was Siebetroy and those would be to our house all the time. And of course, they could come to our house, and we, Dr. Maynor’s little, they used to come to the house all the time. He would eat and everything, because Momma made the best biscuits you ever tasted. So, we got along pretty good, because Daddy was a hard worker and Momma was a hard worker, and that’s what it took to live back then. So, we got along pretty good.





	W:	Now, could you ever go to their house?



	T:	Yeah, I could go there, because Momma worked there. But other Black children couldn’t go. So it was like I was the only Black child in there, only I was a, what they say? Maybe what, the pickaninny? [Laughter] It was me, Susan and Siebetroy, and we’d play together almost inseparable. And Mrs. Fowler, Siebetroy’s aunt—and I always now have a bowl of fruit, because she always have a big bowl of fruit on the book case. And she go in there every morning and test that fruit. And if it was real ripe, she’d put it over on the little table down there. Now, we could get that fruit and eat it, but we couldn’t touch the fruit in the big bowl. So today, I always have fruit for my children and grandchildren. Always have my fruit. And sometimes, she would cut up a tray of fruit and give it to us.

And we’d run out and take it up in our little treehouse up there. I got along good until I got up pretty, you know, older, and we moved down aside the road, on the Lake City road, after Daddy got in the CC camp and all. And people used to walk where they needed to go. And Momma would let people sleep on the porch, or sometimes when it was real, real cold, she’d let them come in the house to the fireplace. Had it been like it is now, they’d probably done killed us all! [Laughter] But anyway, she’d get up in the mornings, and make them some biscuits, and roll it up in a piece of brown paper—we didn’t have no bags and stuff like we got— she’d roll them up something in some brown paper and give it to them for them to go on down the road. For several years, somebody would send her a hundred dollar bill in a envelope wrapped up in a piece of paper. And we don’t know to today whose—and that was a lot of money back then! A hundred dollars was a





lot of money. So, I don’t know how many years Momma got that hundred dollars. But it’s somebody she probably helped down the road. And when World War II come, and she went back to doing hair—she was a beautician. In other words, she’d taken up beautician under—you might have hear it a “hairdresser”— Madam C. J. Walker. I wished I did have that picture, because she had a picture with Madam C. J. Walker. It would’ve been worth something now. Because she was the one that come to Jacksonville and trained them in hairdressing. And she went back to doing hair in World War II. During that time, I come on to Gainesville to go to school, and my daddy worked to Camp Blanding. My sister, my mom’s sisters, and all, they all catch the truck and go to Camp Blanding. In fact, I was told to run my age up—Daddy signed it, Momma wouldn’t—and I worked three months to Camp Blanding. From that, we moved to Gainesville. We moved out on 8th Avenue—which, at that time it was Boundary, and it didn’t come no further than—you know, where the fire station? That was a railroad track there. And when you got to that railroad track, if you went any further, most time you had to almost wade, if any little rain come, the water would settle down there. Because it was on a turpentines camp. When we moved out there, we had, on Saturday nights, we’d have a movie in the old stillhouse, which was right about along there now where that recreation center for the kids, over there on—it was a still there.

	W:	The Reichert Center?



	T:	No, not the Reichert House. Over on 8th Avenue. Do you know where—8th Avenue, you know where the fire station is on Waldo Road?





	W:	Yeah, I know where the fire station is. Yeah.



	T:	Mmhm, you know, 8th Avenue. Across, and goes on down to Mt Carmel church and everything. But at that time, it only went, about where Duval Elementary school is. It just some houses. Because fire for turpentine quarters, there was a turpentine still and everything. The commissary was right there where 15th Street runs out into 8th Avenue. You see, that was where the commissary for the still quarters. After the still quarters closed, then the people started moving out there in the [inaudible 20:49]. It used to be a sawmill out there called Camp’s Lumber Company. It was right along there where they sell that recycle thing, and it was a Camp’s Lumber Mill. The first affordable houses for Blacks was some little barracks they moved on 18th from Camp Blanding. At first, they had them move those little houses there from Camp Blanding. It got to be populated, where there got to be quite a few children out there. So, a child got sick, and then said it was from contaminated water. So, they cut a canal through there. At first they did build up the road a little bit, and then they had to cut that little canal there. So, we wanted city water. So we had to meet with the county commissioners, because at that time we was outside the city limits. And one of—the county commissioners building was right downtown there. It was right along there where, about where the library is downtown. Right along on that corner? Where—no, it wasn’t that far. It’s right along there, about where, you know, Bo Diddley [Plaza], they were right along that block in there. No, it was the next street over. Not along there where the library is; somewhere along in there. And we were all out in the street in this little house. Because the professors all had to meet there, and Professor Jones’





story, he said the other professors and things would be inside the building, but he had to stand outside by the window, because he was Black. That’s where the county commissioners’ little house out there. One of the county commissioners come out there, and he say, “Get them niggers some water.” So, that’s how we got the first spigot: within about thirty or forty days, they ran a spigot down there about where, on 17th Drive, where those apartments? What are they? Is it— Magnolia? I don’t know exactly. Well, they run the spigot down there. The first store out there was Pellman’s grocery store. My momma had a café. She had a café out there. The reason why we had to close the café was because Momma wouldn’t sell them liquor—moonshine. So policemen. She wouldn’t sell moonshine, because she was a Christian. So they kept on bothering her, and she had to close that café down. And how we got a school out there, I think it must’ve been in the fifties. They were going to—we wanted a larger school. And they were going to send the children, some of the kids already was coming over here to Williams elementary. And they were going send the all the children to Williams Elementary. Well, they passed integration. So we were going to send our children to Kirby Smith.

	W:	That’s the place that—yeah.



	T:	It’s a—it’s not a school, but it used to be a school. Mmhm. And I worked there at Kirby Smith, and I’ll never ever forget, they paid me seventeen dollars and fifty cents a week, and we cleaned all those rooms at Kirby Smith. Every night. We washed the blackboards and everything. And our highest price was seventeen dollars and fifty cent. But anyway, they were supposed to build a new Gainesville





High School, because Gainesville High School was right there on University Avenue. You know where Ayers center is? Ayers Medical Plaza? Mmhm. That’s where Gainesville High School used to be. Then, they decided that my dad and three or four other women—because he would haul them—they went to the school board and everywhere. But they said it wasn’t no money to build us a school out there. When the integration passed, they give—that’s how we got Duval. They give us a six-room school, lunchroom and auditorium, to keep our children from going to the White school. And they did that all around the county. To keep us—because a lot of people were moving out into this area. You couldn’t get nobody, a contractor, hardly nowhere in Gainesville that would really build a Black person a decent house. The banks would not finance you. Until Mr. Emmer come here and build Lincoln Estate, the first houses that was built for Blacks was right there on Waldo Road, in 7th Street; they have little old stone houses there.

Mr. Annis, he built those. And several of the prominent Black people moved in those little houses. Until Mr. Emmer come, and he had to go to Jacksonville to get these houses financed. Because the banks would not like to have Black people have too much money. And that’s how Lincoln Estates got out here. And after he built Lincoln Estates—oh, we skipped integration completely! [Laughter] They built, we call it “Hollywood” across over there. But during integration, in fact, they built Lincoln High School to keep us in our neighborhood. When they started sit-ins here in Gainesville, by it being a university town, when they would do the demonstrations, the college students would surround the Blacks when they go for a sit-in. I can remember my oldest son, he was in one of the sit-ins and I just





couldn’t stay to work. It used to be a eating-place there called Pop Lane. And then, Lees’ drugstore. It was in where the Gainesville Shopping Center is now. Well, they was going integrate that. The college students would surround them, to keep the Whites from getting to them. Getting to the, you know—they was demonstrators, but—

	W:	So the college students would help the Blacks sit in?



T:  Yeah, mmhm. When they’d go have a sit-in, the Black students, if they sat up on the counter—say, like at Woolworth dime store—the college students would line up behind them. That’s how integration went in Gainesville

	W:	I want to talk a little about high school, did you go to Lincoln High? T:	Yeah, I went to Lincoln High. That was what moved us over here. W:	And how was it? Describe.

	T:	Oh yeah, those was the good old days! [Laughter] See Lincoln High was over there where Jones Elementary—I mean Jones, I think it’s a school for bad children or something now, over there near 8th Avenue and 10th Street; that’s where Lincoln High School was. And they built Lincoln High School over here, and they closed it down when the Whites had to come over here, to Lincoln High School. They built Eastside to take them out of the Black community.

	W:	Why did the Whites have to come over to Lincoln?



	T:	Integration. And they had the zones. They would have riots at the schools and all. I can remember a meeting where I went to, because my children was going to—oh, what the school over here on 9th Street? Howard… But anyway, I told them to don’t let my children off the campus. And they had had a riot, because





some of the kids had throwed something out the bus at the kids. And we had a meeting that night. I can remember, I got up, I said, “Now, you might as well adjust to it, because the law said that we got to do it.” There was a group of cameras—I said, “They have did everything they could to keep our children from mixing, but we don’t have no choice.” So, a guy said, “Well, what about the—I said, “Maybe you was taught. Stop teaching your children about what they did in slavery. Cause maybe it took that to get America built, but we got it built now, and it’s beautiful, and we got to integrate because the law says so.” And I said— that’s how I scared myself—I said, “And the Klansmen might as well pull off their hoods and go home, because its going happen.” And a guy say, “What about the black armband?” I said, “The black armbands and all.” Because, see we had a group of Blacks, and that’s what they was calling themselves, wearing the black armbands and stuff. I said, “You need to put that stuff away.” And the building got so quiet in there! I didn’t realize what I was saying; I done been talking about the Klansmen, and—oh, what was them Black people called? But anyway, boy, I got away from there! Because I didn’t want to talk to the media, because I might’ve really lost my job. But they said what a lady, what one of the parents said, but they didn’t get my name.

	W:	How was the Klan activity here? Was it a lot of Klan activity?



	T:	I tell you about the Klan: the Klan is always, you never know who the Klan is. It might be your chief of police, it might’ve been your judges, it might’ve been whatnot. But when they put on them sheets at night, you didn’t know what they was. In Taylor County, when we was living there, my mom say when the Klans





was riding, they bossman would tell them to don’t have no lights. Because, you know, they did whatever they wanted to do. Many Black people have been beat up and all by some of the Whites. But I guess through it all, we survived. In fact, we haven’t arrived yet. Some of us think that. Sure, we progressed. Some of us have a little money now, and some of us hold positions. I wish my daddy had been living. Because they used to say that was a Black man’s dream: living in the White house, and sleeping with a White woman. But anyway, my uncle and all of them say that was the Black man’s dream. Well, I guess the dream has come true. But it was pretty rough some places. Pretty rough.

	W:	Did your mom or dad—or since you have kids, did you ever hide them from the reality of segregation? We’ve heard stories in class about how sometimes when you to the department store, and there were different water fountains.

	T:	Oh yeah, oh yeah. Oh, yeah. You had—you couldn’t drink out the water fountain.



If it wasn’t a fountain somewhere that said “Colored” or “White.” If it didn’t have nothing but one fountain, it didn’t even have to have a sign. You automatically know that was for the White folk. Unless it said “Colored.” In fact, we were “Colored” back then. Unless it said “Colored,” you didn’t go to it. After integration—in other words, when we moved here, the train use to come right through to the heart of town—Gainesville—and the train station was there where, what is that? The First National Bank? That’s where the train station was. On the corner, it was a five-and-dime store. It was Woolworths Five-and-Dime store. And on 2nd Street, that was a street where the Blacks went. All the stores and the eating places, the Black cab stand, that’s where all that was. And if you went—





you had to go to the back door or the back window if you wanted something, a sandwich or something. If you wanted to buy a dress or anything, you couldn’t try them on. You couldn’t try on shoes; you couldn’t try on anything. And if you bought it, it was yours. You couldn’t bring it back. There were stores like Wilson’s, and—what was some of the other stores? I’m thinking of the different little stores. Margaret Ann’s, and—because we use to have two five-and-ten- cent. It used to be Kroger’s, and then there used to be two five-and-dime stores downtown.

	W:	How did the Black community in Gainesville interact with the University?



Because I know the university didn’t integrate for a while.



	T:	Okay, excepting work there, you didn’t go there. And we had—oh, what the man name? I can’t call his name! He come here and tried to go to school, the law school.

	W:	Virgil Hawkins?



	T:	Yeah, mmhm. That was the first student integration of the University of Florida. I didn’t ever think I’d be able to take a class at the University of Florida, but finally I did it. For a long time, you couldn’t go. And even for a long time, it was few people took a few classes, and that was it for several years. You know, if you stayed here, or stayed—you could go out and take a few classes, but you couldn’t live on campus. You couldn’t live in those university housing, for a long time.

	W:	Why did you think you could never go to the university? What made it—?





	T:	Well, because it was all White. And how I happened to go to the University of Florida, it was when Santa Fe opened, and I wanted to be a nurse, but I never got—like, I got married, and didn’t go to nursing school. Because if you wanted to go to school here, you had to try to go to Florida Memorial, or you go to Florida A&M, or to Jacksonville. So, it was no college for Black people to go to. It must’ve been in the [19]60s, because in the [19]50s, I went to work out to Tacachale, which at that time was Sunland Training Center. They had—the kids that was mentally retarded all worked out there. When my last son was born, I didn’t go back. They had started—in fact, out there, they had White cottages and Black cottages. And we couldn’t work in the White cottages—Black people. Just the White people worked with the White children; the Black people worked with the Black children. Because, finally I got up to the hospital out there, and I wanted to go to nursing school. Well, since I didn’t go back, I went to work to veterinary medicine. I was working for some of the doctors, doing things that wasn’t my job. They had the classes, I had prepped for the nursing program, but I couldn’t stop work. See, the nursing program was in the daytime, and I worked in the daytime. So I had said, well, I’d work a year, and get a job over at the hospital at night or something. But in the meantime, we had a lady that, she’d worked for the College of Medicine, and she had taught this class in medical technology over at the University of Florida. And she sent me over there. So, I got in classes with the College of Medicine over there. And taking up histotech. Because the reason why people be noticing you—it was a girl, White girl, there that had a sick baby, and I started doing her work. And she was watching me. She said she





never seen nobody coverslip slides like that. Well I didn’t know, I didn’t know that wasn’t the way. That was just easier for me to do. You put the glue on the slide, because you couldn’t let it—and just put the slide, and let the cover slip come up. Because, see, when you look at it under the scope, you can’t have no bubbles or nothing. So, I started doing this girl’s work. And she say, “Well, you ever thought of going to school yourself to do that?” I say, “No, because I had never seen it until I come out here.” See, all the labs was lily-White. Didn’t have no Black people hardly in the labs—except over at the University of Florida, because Mr.

Lake had one or two Black people, because he trained them to work. She told me to go over there, and I did. She said, “Well you’ll get a little pay.” They had student pay. And I say, “Oh, good.” But what they did for me, they transferred my line over to the College of Medicine; I got my same salary while I trained in school over at the University of Florida. See, they do it for themselves, but unless they like you or something, you didn’t know. I didn’t even know I could do that.

But they did, because I had worked so hard over at the College of Medicine, working for people I didn’t have to work for. That’s how I did sterilization. Then I start helping them in the lab, and doing things for the techs over there. But it helped me to learn. So that’s how I got to go to classes at the University of Florida College of Medicine. And I got histotech, I was a histotechnologist.

	W:	And when you took classes at the University of Florida, were there any signs of racism?





	T:	By that time, racism had—in other words, it hadn’t gone, but it was at the time that they had to have one. And I was that one. I was that one Black in our group. I was the one Black. I was that token. I was Black and I was a woman. So.

	W:	No one mistreated you at all?



	T:	No. No, they were pretty nice. Well over at veterinary medicine, when I first went over there, we would have our break, and then one of the doctors said, “Why don’t—y’all can have your break inside.” But we had to take our break before the Whites did. And then, they started coming in on our time and our breaks, and we’d have to jump up. So, I made us a break room by ourselves. That was during the integration, because you couldn’t go to White places and eat. It was a little bit… I can remember one time, one of the guys says—this girl, you know, she had been looking for him, wanted to know where he was. And she was real holy, she belong to the Holiness church. And he say “I been to see God.” Knowing old me, I say, “If you was Black, you wouldn’t pray no more.” [Laughter] And little things like that, you know?

	W:	What did he say?



	T:	He turned red, and the doctor that he went over there with, he laughed. Because see, she would be in there, singing and praying and all, she so religious.

Because she started losing her mind. Some of it was funny, and some of it was really bad. After I trained at Alachua General, and they give me a job in the lab—I don’t mean Alachua General, I mean the University of Florida—I’d taken a ten- year leave of absence from the University of Florida, and went and set—me and a Back guy—set up the histo lab in North Florida Regional. For some reason,





they didn’t realize that we were both Black. I reckon because he come from New York, and then my boss over there, he give me reference to go over there and get a job. So, when we got over there, it turned out that we were both Black. And they give us a hard time over there. In fact, it sort of helped me later on, because they wouldn’t even give us a addendum. Some of them went with that old lady that was over the janitorial. She told the lab manager, “You better watch them.

Do they know what they doing?” Now mind, now, we were licensed technologists, and she was just a manager over the janitorial department. She ain’t had license in nothing! But she would watch us. But anyway, they wouldn’t give us addendum. So, I started doing forensic anatomy, started helping doing autopsies. So, for, oh, a good long time, they wouldn’t give us addendum.

Finally, they did give us addendum. When North Florida Regional first opened, they didn’t have no birthing. They did abortions out there. They used to take the babies—people would come out there for abortions, and sometimes the babies would be so far advanced. So, that’s what they do: well, the doctor would flood the uterus with saline and pull the baby out. And then, we had to do an autopsy on it. So, they got to where they were up to a certain number of weeks, we had to do an autopsy on the baby. Well for the training, I had got so good about doing it, that I could cut the uterus—some of them would have the whole uterus taken out, rather than to have the baby. They would have the whole uterus taken out. And for teaching purposes, the autopsy, I could cut the uterus open, and just take the baby out in the sac. For several years over there, I did autopsy. Forensic anatomy, is what it’s called. Then I had to get from over there within the ten years





so I could get back into University of Florida. So, I left and went to Alachua General, because we had to straighten up the lab over there. My supervisor over to North Florida Regional—you know how Whites, they’ll come work with you.

They had this White girl come in there and work with me and Ralph, and she was so—she wanted the job. So they rigged up where Ralph had to quit. I mean, he got sick. So then she become the supervisor. Then we gets this other old doctor over there, and he would drink and everything; he was sent on. But anyway, I left with her and went to Alachua General. And in the meantime, the girl that I used to help started helping, doing her work over at veterinary medicine. She had married a doctor, so he got me a grant to work with Alzheimer’s, work with the brain. Because I could do anatomy. I mean, I could do forensic anatomy.

Because what you do, you have to cut the skull open, and take the brain out, and dissect it. Alzheimer research, and I did that for about eight years at Shands.

That’s where I retired from. How I happen to be doing school crossing guard, my grandson—which, he is a detective now; he works for state attorney’s office downtown. I don’t know if you know him. You in school, you probably don’t, but if you was around, you’d know Barry Lloyd. Because he went through Police Explorers, then he went to police school, then to school for being a detective. But anyway, he was in the Police Explorers, and the police chief was going stop.

Because by that time, it wasn’t but one White left, so he was going stop. Now that ain’t why he say; they didn’t have the money to keep funding it. So, I got some of the parents. And, well, I had a lot of parents come—parents and all, went to the preachers and all, and I told them they was cutting it out because the





ones that was left there was Black. You know how our people, oh, boy! They talk big ‘til time to get things done! [Laughter] We had a meeting, and we set up a parent meeting. And we were going go. Chief Jones at that time, he was the commander over the Police Explorers. And Rosa Williams, she was one of the ones that was with us, and she knew the county commissioner. So she had us to set up a meeting to meet with the city commissioner, I mean, not the county commissioner. So when time to go to the city commissioner meeting, I had one Black woman with me. And the White boy, his momma, him and his daddy— momma and daddy were separated—his momma and his daddy was there, and his daddy’s other wife. So I had those three, it was three White people and us two Black people by the time to stand up. And then, we had one pastor that I had went to—and went to all the pastors—and we had one of the Black pastors come. He say, “I got a meeting, but as quick as I can get out, I’ll come.” And while we was up, he walked in the door. So the city started funding the Police Explorers, so they didn’t have to go under the budget of the police department.

They finally start paying for it. So when I retired, I started doing school crossing guard, and I’ve been there eighteen years.

	W:	Just want to ask you one more question, because it relates to recently: I saw that you had an Obama sticker out on your car.

	T:	Oh, yeah!



	W:	And I wanted to know, what did that election mean to you? Having grown up through the segregation and racism.





	T:	Now see, it mean more to me than it do you. Because see, I went through all of that. I never thought a Black man—in fact, when they got to getting to be on the county boards and stuff like that, it was great for me. Because my daddy was a politician, and the two things he used to said: make sure that you register and vote if you a Black person; be sure that you let them take—they used it call social security, they used to call it “pennies”—let them take them pennies out your salary, because you can do without them. And he would teach that to us and the other people, so we always voted. We always voted. He always got out and tried to make sure of that. And what we did when Kennedy was running for president, I moved from northeast Gainesville, and what we went door to door, and carried people up and got them registered. And we need to do that now! Carried them up to get registered. Then we go right back—in fact, it was two jukes over in there in northeast Gainesville. And we would pick people up at them jukes, carry them to get them registered to vote—you know, the ones of us that had cars—then we would bring them back to the juke, and set up a jar of moonshine. [Laughter] Yeah, so, we’d get a group of them. Back then they had jars—them pint jars?

And every time we’d carry a group and got them back there, we’d buy one of them jars of moonshine, and then they would drink it.

	W:	So, how did you feel on the day President Obama was elected? The day they said “Barack Obama is the next president of the United States.”

	T:	Oh honey, I could’ve just jumped and hollered. Because it really surprised me. Because see, they can do so many little lying things. Just like Cain is finding out now, what they do to him. It’s a Republican probably doing it to him. His own





people. He just thought he was so far advanced, he was over us. He didn’t sit in on race, he didn’t do this. And he’s the one that’s reaping the benefits, because he’d have never been able to run, had we not done integration. With us, we automatically know that we had a step back. I can remember going to the hamburger place on 13th Street. I had my two children, and we waited, and we waited. Another one come up, and she’d point over there, “What do you want?” Looking all over us. And I had to step up and say, “Wait a minute, honey. I been standing here long enough. You go get the manager before you serve anybody else.” Naturally, everything got quiet. And I said, “You can’t decide segregation. The government decide it. So, I think you better wait on us.” Then the manager come out, you know, and I say, “I don’t know whether I want it now or not.” And he come out and he fixed us sandwiches, and no charge. And another incident I had was, I was putting gas in the car, and my little girl wanted to go to the bathroom. The guy said, “Well, we don’t have a bathroom for the Colored.” But integration had passed. I said, “Well I’ll tell you what: you didn’t tell me that before you put that gas”—I hadn’t paid for it yet—“so, you can have your gas back and I’ll go.” And he give me the key, “Just let her go.” And I went to the car, say, “Anybody else want to go in the bathroom?” Because I wasn’t going to pay him for it, for the gas. And she went. [Laughter] So, you see, we sort of went through little things. It’s sort of funny now. Like this Woolworth’s store, my daddy used to go round to the back and get sandwiches and drinks and stuff. So, we were downtown, and I told my momma, I say—she love coffee—I say, “Come on over here and have a cup a coffee.” And she didn’t want to go. And I say, “Come





now, now that you have a chance to go, you better take advantage of it and use it.” So we went over there. And she say, “What if they spit in it or something?” Okay, that next week, I made sure that had a place there they call—the Primrose Grill downtown. It’s right there on the corner—you know where the state attorney’s office is at? That building right there. It used to be a White restaurant there, a really exclusive White restaurant. So I’d taken her there. And she was scared to go in there, she didn’t want—I said “Momma, come on!” And she say, “I didn’t think I’d ever have a White woman waiting on me.” [Laughter] Now see, she was pretty old; she was in her forties when I was born. Had she’d lived another two months, she’d have been a hundred when she died.

	W:	Wow. My great grandmother died last year, she was almost a hundred as well.



	T:	Yeah those people, they didn’t drink, and they didn’t smoke, and all that. Tried to live a good, decent life.

	W:	Yeah, my great-grandmother was born in Georgia. South Georgia.



	T:	My momma was born in Georgia, too. They come to Georgia from South Carolina in a wagon.

	W:	Oh, really? Well, thank you for the interview. I really appreciate it. It’s going to be a good one. I think it’s going to be, like, one of the best in the class. I’m going to give you a copy of it, we’re going to mail you a copy of it.

	T:	And I’m eighty-three, and I’m still like that. I do school crossing guard. I work a hour forty-five minutes a day at the school. Because it make me get up and get out. My children fuss like crazy. My oldest son, before he died, he said, “Momma, we’ll pay you!” I said, “That’s not why I do it.” I get a chance to get to children.





Because lot of times—we ain’t supposed to do it, but the children come and hug me. You don’t know where those children coming in, or from what. And I belong to the Elks. I don’t know if you know what that is. I’m part of an order of Elks of the World. The Black organization. That’s another whole story. [Laughter] I’m emeritus in that, because the Whites, everything used to be integrated, and that’s why we are IBPOW, and the Whites are IBPOE. They taken us to court, because we had taken their organization. Somebody left their grip on a train. One of the porters on the train got the grip and find out what it was. And started a Black organization. Well, they didn’t want us to have that organization. So, we had to add the “w” onto it. And they didn’t have women in theirs. In fact, they still just now got women in theirs. But you know, we Black women: if our men get into something, we going be there. So, we organized a Daughters of the Elks. And then, I belong to the church. I’m a mother in the church, and missionary. And a mother-in-law to the mission girls. I belong to Church Women United. And I belong to Salvation Army Women’s Support Group, and I volunteer one day a week and pass out bread. Because they didn’t have anybody to pass it out, and these older people—and younger people, too, because sometime I’d get about two hundred heads of people that sign in, because bread, that brown bread somehow costs three and four dollars a loaf. And if we can give somebody two or three loaves of bread, that’s saving them some money. And I also belong to the Red Hats. So, at eighty-three, I’m going very strong. [Laughter] And we go, we women have fun. Now, I’m enjoying my older days. I really am. I didn’t want to be old, grouchy. If I say it—maybe you can’t put that in there—but I say I was not





going to be old picklepuss when I got old! [Laughter] So, I’m really enjoying—I enjoy my life. I really do.

	W:	Yeah, my grandma, she goes running for like three miles every day, and she’s sixty-nine.

	T:	Mmhm. You got to keep busy! If you don’t use it, you lose it. W:	Yeah. That is true.

	T:	Okay. I hope I could help you.



	W:	No, you helped me a lot. It was really good. It was—. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Darrius Woods, at some point Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, May 3, 2017 Final edit by: