AAHP 534; Bennett; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 534 Antonette Bennett

Interviewed by Anupa Kotipoyina on October 18, 2017 1 hour, 11 minutes | 34 pages



Abstract: This interview was conducted as part of a collaboration between Dr. Hazel Levy and SPOHP, which focused on Black women research faculty at the UF College of Medicine. Dr. Antonette Bennett was born in Kingston Jamaica, and in this interview describes some of her experiences growing up there. In particular, she discusses her early education and how she became introduced to the sciences and went on to work as a medical researcher. That path includes her studies at the University of the West Indies, and her early experiences in laboratory work. She also discusses playing on the national Jamaican volleyball team around the same time. Following that, she attended Florida Atlantic University, and then matriculated into the UF PhD program in the College of Medicine. Dr. Bennett talks about her experiences in the PhD program, including the challenges facing Black women in grad school, and describes the research that she was currently engaged in at the time of the interview.







Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; University of Florida; Women in Medicine; Women in Research; Women in Graduate School; Jamaican History]



AAHP 534

Interviewee: Antonette Bennett Interviewer: Anupa Kotipoyina Date: October 17, 2017



	K:	Good morning. The date is October, 18th, 2017. I’m here with Dr. Antonette Bennett. This is Anupa Kotipoyina and we’re in Gainesville, Florida. Dr. Bennett, could you start by just telling me when and where you were born?

	B:	So I was born in Kingston, Jamaica, 1971. I think that’s it, yeah. So Kingston is kind of the capital, so we were born in the city. It’s like one of the main hospitals.

	K:	So you were born in the hospital in Kingston? B:	In the hospital, yes. Yes.

	K:	And so what did your parents do for a living?



	B:	So my mom at the time, she was just about to start college. My dad, he was I believe an engineer. But he was traveling, so he would travel and work at different places and then come back.

	K:	Okay. And did you have any siblings?



	B:	I’m the eldest in my family. I now have two younger siblings: a sister who is two years younger, and I have a brother who is closer to eighteen years younger.

	K:	Could you tell me a little bit about your early education?



	B:	Yes. So in Jamaica it’s very similar to the English system because Jamaica was a colony of England before we got our independence in 1962. So our system is English-based. I went to a preschool, at five years old I went for probably one year. But I was told, I don’t remember, I was told that I already knew how to read and write very well because I have an aunt who I stayed with a lot who was doing her teaching degree. So I’m assuming she would always give me things to do.

And I was also told that I had cousins who were getting ready to finish high





school and start college and they were always studying, and I’m always around them. And I suspect if I would annoy them enough, they would give me work.

And so I could read and write, and so I think they were a bit anxious. They didn’t necessarily want me because there was no point. But at six years old I started, it’s a girls’ school. Pretty much it’s the same curriculum. You do your elementary years. It’s St. George’s Girls School. It’s Anglican.

	K:	Was it a private school?



	B:	So no, but it’s one of the better schools home. And it’s all girls. And then once I was finished, at the end of that five years, similar to elementary school here, you have an exam you have to take. It’s called a common entrance, so it will decide whether you’ll go to a reputable high school or a technical school or you just don’t go to any.

	K:	So how old are you when you take that exam? B:	Ten. You’re ten years old.

	K:	Wow.



	B:	And you have two to three chances. You have up until twelve to pass or do well. And so I got like a scholarship to go to a really good high school. So I went to a Catholic girls’ school. And that’s also not private. Ideally you have to do really well in your exams or your parents’ pay a lot of money. So either one. So I don’t—it’s public, you just have to do well.

	K:	And so then you went there for high school? B:	Then I went there for high school.

	K:	What was the name of the school?





	B:	It’s Holy Child High School. So elementary was St. George’s Girls’ School and high school was Holy Child High School and it’s Catholic. So you have five years that you have to complete your high school diploma. And then once your diploma is done, at the end of the five years, you have to take what they call Cambridge Exams. So it’s English-based. And so it’s just to see if you will do well enough to go their kind of like a junior college. What it is is two additional years in high school that you do advanced courses that you have to pass and then you could immediately go to either medical school or engineering school or whatever professional school you want to go.

	K:	Yeah, my parents’ are from India, so it’s similar. B:	Okay, it’s very similar, yeah.

	K:	Did you have a good high school experience?



	B:	Oh yeah. High school was great. In high school, I was academically—so they split each grade—because of the amount of kids—it’s into seven groups. So you’re in seventh grade now, so it starts with seventh grade, seventh to eleventh grade. And so you have 7A, B, C, D, E, F, G. And then the kids, you place the kids based on their academics. So if they are very strong academically, they’re placed in—

	U:	Ice bucket is yours? B:	It’s mine.

	U:	Do you need it still?



	B:	Yes, but you can use it if you need it. U:	Okay, I need it for a mere half an hour.





	B:	Okay. Sorry. I guess you have to delete that part. So you’re placed based on your performance. So you start off initially they look at your common entrance results and then they’ll place you. By the time the end of the year, they’ll keep placing you. So typically I believe the students in the G class would usually end up doing the sciences or… I’m trying to remember. It’s usually, it depends because they have options. I believe that by the end of fifth form or eleventh grade, you’ll know what you’re doing. You’re either doing the sciences or you’re doing accounting, or you’re doing whatever it is that you’re planning to do with your career. You typically know by the end of eleventh grade. And there was every activity. I was really fortunate because I was on every school team. The swim team, I was on the swim team, because I loved exercise. They have something called net ball, similar to basketball. I was on the net ball team. Every team. Every sports team. I was cheerleader for whatever group I was in.

Whatever activity then, I was there. And it was open to everyone, so we all had to participate in certain activities. It was a girls’ school, so everybody had to do home ec. So we all got to learn to sew an apron, and we all have to learn to cook [Laughter]. So yeah, high school was really good. The teachers, it was really weird, because I feel a lot like the teachers, they were all nuns, and I feel like we all pretty much loved the nuns. We all kind of emulated them. They were very hip, even though they wore the habit. But they were very—they were not like mean nuns that you see on TV. They were fun-loving and they were very open to help you to learn. We probably had one or two male teachers. Even then we could see the discrepancy a little bit, because for physics we had a male teacher.





Most of our teachers were female, but they couldn’t find any female physics teachers, so we had an engineering degree student would teach us part-time. But pretty much I think high school was really enjoyable for me.

	K:	So do you remember when you started becoming interested in science?



	B:	Um, so I was interested science the first time they introduced it to us. And I want to say it was ninth grade. So in ninth grade we started, we had—our biology teacher’s also male—he started to kind of open our eyes to science. You learn basic biology, chemistry, and physics. And if you’re in a certain grade, then you could do these courses. And I think from then I thought to myself, “Wow, this is like, awesome. We could actually cure diseases! We could do things.” And in ninth grade, I feel like a lot of things started happening in my family that made me feel like I really wanted to be in research. I didn’t want to be a doctor. That was my mom’s dream. I guess she told me later that she always wanted me to be a medical doctor. But I always wanted to do research. Once I discovered that there was such a thing as research and science and people could do all these things, then I was like, “That’s what I want to do.” I think in my yearbook I said that I was going to be the first person to cure cancer. I think that was what I planned. At first I said diabetes because diabetes run in my family. [Laughter] And then I said cancer because I had an aunt who died from cancer then.

	K:	So are those the family events you’re talking about that made you—



	B:	Yes, yes. And then one of my aunt had lupus. We didn’t know it was lupus. They thought it was some spiritual voodoo. Because nobody knew what was wrong with her and so she had lupus, and so I was interested in immunology. So every





time something happened, I’m starting to read more and more. And the library was my absolute favorite place.

	K:	And so you’d mostly read about science?



	B:	I’d mostly read about science. But I was also very good at English literature. And it’s because my mom made us read classics when we were little. We were not allowed to be like all the other girls who could go out and play outdoors. So we’d read and we knitted and we pretended we were princesses and drank tea. But I dream—I am an outdoor person, so when I could, I played sports all the time, every chance. It was like, “Oh there’s a sport. I could play it.” I was there.

	K:	Did you ever have the chance to do experiments in high school or was it mostly textbook-based?

	B:	In high school, we did in both biology and chemistry. We didn’t have a physics— our physics teacher was later. We taught ourselves physics for some part of it.

We just had the book and we had to teach ourselves until we got a teacher. So in chemistry we had analytical chemistry. I feel like we went all the way with chemistry. And with biology it was the same thing. But it was mostly anatomy, I think, with biology. It’s not like the experiments I see my son do now. Then it was we would collect fossils. We would have bones. I remember my biology teacher making us draw things. So he would group the different organism that we would collect, whatever remains that we would collect. Shells. We would collect bones from fish. Skulls. We would group them and then we would draw them. But we would draw them according to what we felt was like an evolutionary, what would evolve. And there was another young lady, I believe she’s a famous artist now.





We were both designated the people to draw. And then we had other people doing other parts of the experiments. I remember we entered this competition. It was a science competition. And they disqualified us; they said it wasn’t us who drew it. We were so upset. They were like, “It was too good.” So the teacher consoled us. He said, “It’s a good sign that you guys are excellent in what you do.” But we were like, “But we, but we…” We were close to tears. We were like, “But I don’t understand. Why would we stand in front of something that we didn’t draw? Or that we didn’t do the work?” And it took us a long time. And I remember him spending the time to go through the whole process in terms of, for each organism, this is how every system, every part of it. And that helped us. Because I remember, by the time we go to the exams, we were so equipped. He started in ninth grade and we got to the exam. I believe I got like, one of the high scores.

It’s because he made us so equipped. We spent a long time when you draw things that would correspond to what you’re learning. It’s a very good technique.

	K:	Did your mother end up working after her college degree?



	B:	Yes, she ended up working. Overworking—double jobs. So she didn’t go to college. She stopped at that time. Because now she had to work because then my dad was mostly traveling so she was the main person to support us.

	K:	So can you tell me about your transition into college?



	B:	So for college it was very straightforward from the high school that we went to. The nuns have a system. So you made sure that academically you were where you need to be and it’s one of the top high schools so it really will feed into the colleges. So I remember them bringing the application forms to us. We literally





picked it up from the office. All the people interested in going to college. And they would spend time with the people who they felt were academically strong. So you have to get these forms. So we did them and the nuns in the office, they would type it up for us. So we brought it, type it, we would sign it, they would send it off. Then we get a letter saying either you’re accepted or not.

	K:	So where did you end up going to university? B:	University of the West Indies.

	K:	In Mona?



	B:	Mona. Mona, yeah. So in the Caribbean we have—the University of the West Indies is really broad. So because it’s a West Indies university you have campuses in different islands. So in Jamaica it’s if you want to do medicine or the sciences, natural sciences, you do it in Jamaica. If you want to be a lawyer, you have to do it in Barbados. And if you want to do engineering, it’s in Trinidad. So the campuses have a specialty.

	K:	And so by then you knew you wanted to do research. B:	Oh yes. So I went to University of the West Indies.

	K:	So did you specialize in any type of science there?



	B:	I wanted to do biochemistry, but I did—so you have to do natural sciences, you have to do the math, I believe you had to do biology. Like anatomy, physiology. There’s certain standard courses you have to do for your degree requirement. And so I believe I stayed in biology and chemistry. I was really good at chemistry, but I knew I needed biology. So I kind of minored in biology and I stayed in chemistry. And I think by your third year you’re allowed to do biochemistry, which





is what I really wanted to do. But unfortunately I was on a work-exchange program in the States. And by the time I came back, all the slots were filled so I was stuck doing chemistry the whole time. So it’s actually when I traveled abroad that I decided that I really wanted to specialize, take the opportunity to do biochemistry.

	K:	So where did you do your work study? In the United States?



	B:	So once I left the University of the West Indies, I worked in a forensic lab for five years. They have a biology department, and I worked at a biology department. I thought we were going to get an option to go abroad to do a masters, and it would be in biology. I would get to do research while doing forensics. But I didn’t think that that was going to materialize. So I applied to FAU, Florida Atlantic University, and I did because I wanted to do biochemistry and biomedical sciences. They have a second bachelors that you could get done. I got done in like a year. A year and probably—I think in a year I got done with a second bachelor in biomedical research. And I did it at Florida Atlantic University.

	K:	So during your undergraduate experience, you had an opportunity to go to the United States or was that after?

	B:	Yes.



	K:	Where did you go then?



	B:	So I went to Miami. But I was supposed to work in a botanical garden cause that was the job that I was applying for and it didn’t work. I think I ended up working at a fast-food place, because that’s all that I could get and I wanted the work experience. So that was in Miami.





	K:	And then you returned and then finished your degree?



	B:	Yes. Then I went back home. It was just for the summer and then I went back home.

	K:	And so when you came back, you worked for five years in a forensic lab in Jamaica?

	B:	In Jamaica.



	K:	Did you enjoy that experience?



	B:	It was really good and it’s really bad. It was good because I got the chance to use all the talents I had. So I could draw very well and we didn’t have an artist. And so I’d go to a crime scene and we typically as a scientist we would typically write what we see. But because I could draw so well, then I would draw it and I would put all the details in. And then when I actually go back, then I could make really thorough notes. And so they would always select me and then most people didn’t want to go. Crime scenes were always sweaty, it was hot. We worked in an air- conditioned building and then outdoors is like you’re climbing up mountains. And then you have to deal with the body. You go with the pathologist. It was—

	K:	Would you have to touch the body yourself?



	B:	Yes. Cause we’d have to examine the clothes. The pathologist would do the literal body, but we would do all the things. We would do the maggots, the clothes, the bugs, everything around, all the evidence that you see, we’d collect samples of blood or any biological fluids. And I probably would have stayed, except that I couldn’t—crimes against children I couldn’t do. And so I said, “If I get any more rape cases from children, then I’m not going to be doing it





anymore.” I had like six months’ vacation. I never took vacation. I don’t know why. I’m probably a workaholic. I’ll just claim it. I’m a workaholic. And so I had six months paid vacation. In the meantime, I also played for my national team, the Jamaica Volleyball Team. I had learned in college to play volleyball, and I told you I love outdoor sports. And so by the time I graduated from college, a few club teams came by looking for me and they were like, “We want you to play for us.” And I’m like, “Oh yeah, sure. I’ll play for a club team. I love sports.” And then I think after my first year, the national team sent me a letter. They were like, “We want you to play for us. You need to train and try out.” I’m like, “Yeah, sure.” And so I played like two or three years for the national team and I think the final year I played for them. Did you need anything?

	U:	Yeah, I was going to tell you your cultures are spun down so I can— B:	Put them down for me.

	U:	Yeah, and then put them down on your desk?



	B:	Please. And could you also start the pump for me? U:	Yeah.

	B:	Sorry. And so they started playing what they call beach volleyball. And so they started and they took the females because females, mostly, we wear bikinis. I don’t know, I guess that makes it more interesting. They get more support if you have females playing sports in bikini, oh my goodness. And so I think that first year I played in a tournament and we won and I got MVP for the tournament. And I won like ten thousand dollars and I won a ticket to travel. Which is the ticket that I used—so I took my vacation from the forensic lab when I realized, okay, the





masters that we were supposed to go to England to do, it was not going to materialize and I was not gonna get to do research. That’s what I want to do. So I took the ticket and I’m like, “I’m gonna take this vacation, I’m gonna travel, I’m gonna take this money and I’m gonna travel.” And when I came here is when I started looking at universities, because there was this option to do research and that’s what I wanted to do. I wanted to do research. And I also felt like home, the things that I wanted to do, it wasn’t accessible. If you’re not a medical doctor, I felt like the kind of medical research I wanted to do at the time, I just didn’t think I was eligible for it. And so when I came here, I started doing research. And so I checked Florida Atlantic University and they were like, “You already have a degree. All you need to do is you need to apply. And I applied and they were like, “Oh yeah, with your grades, we’ll take you.” And you pay of course. You pay international fees. And so I did that. And then once I did that, I think I graduated with a really high GPA, which was important, and I did the GRE and I did really well. And so I transitioned to applying to graduate school, which is really what I wanted to do, research. So kind of like several years down the road, yeah, I’m doing what I wanted to do.

	K:	So were you able to do research after FAU?



	B:	Yes, so here. I applied here and got into the PhD program in the College of Medicine. And that was really important.

	K:	In biochemistry?



	B:	In biochemistry and molecular biology.





	K:	So did have you any particular mentors do you feel like in either your undergraduate, like before your PhD, that were critical or was it mostly just your good grades?

	B:	So I think I was really very independent. I felt a lot like I kept—so there were professors who, I believe, who always, I’m trying to find the word, who encouraged me, who told me that I was really bright. Like organic chemistry is usually the thing that everybody hates the most, so I had to kind of TA an organic chemistry class. And it was something that I really enjoyed because my chemistry background was really strong. And my organic chemistry teacher always said, “You really should pursue further studies. You should do more research. You’re really good at this.” And I don’t know what it was. There was one teacher that he had and he kind of mentally challenged us. He said, “You have to not accept what is written. What people researched, their conclusions, that’s not the end of it. You always have to go beyond. So the thing that they’ve discovered this, you want to be able to not only verify what they have done, but add to it. You should leave this place contributing something more. And you should not be afraid to challenge what’s there. And don’t challenge it for pride, challenge because just for the sheer fact that if you have more knowledge, you will have the ability to solve more problems, accomplish more.” And I remember I had another teacher, she was female. She was the biochemistry teacher in the second bachelors that I did. And I remember, she wasn’t very popular in terms of when you were looking for research. But I what I found was, when she taught biochemistry, she not only did the theory, but she was very careful to make sure





that she included a lab. And the lab was—I mean that really influenced me, because after doing that course, I was like, “This is exactly what I wanted to do.” I wanted to do research. She also did cancer research. And so I was really interested in cancer research. But what we were doing, I thought it wasn’t enough. I think her research was involved—still she was using paclitaxel and other chemotherapeutic drugs and actually dosing BALB cells, they’re mouse cells, and just counting to see how many cells lived or died. And I thought, “I didn’t want to do a PhD counting cells, whether they live or die.” Synthesizing the drug, maybe. Then that part would have been good. But I decided that I wanted to do more. And so that’s why I decided to come here.

	K:	So did you have as an undergraduate or in the second bachelors, did you have an opportunity to get involved in research or was that not really open?

	B:	So I did get opportunities to get involved in research, but I think that it was, so most of the research that I did, I felt like it was watching research. It wasn’t actual work. Except for when I did counting cells. The adding the drug and counting the cells.

	K:	With the professor at FAU?



	B:	With the professor at FAU, yeah. But I also had over the summer, cause I started in the spring, and over the summer I had the option to work. And so I worked in a water treatment plant. So it’s the city water treatment plant. And you go to the wells. So they have—not wells—fire hydrants and you would collect water, the water that’s been circulated, and you test it. You test pH, basic stuff. That wasn’t really research. I thought it would have been a little bit more research where





you’re looking if there was organisms or stuff, there wasn’t anything like that. But it was just like for the summer.

	K:	So for you, really getting to do research happened in your PhD program? You had to wait a long time?

	B:	Yep. So the core course in the IDP program, that was very important. Because they give you six weeks where you learn all the fundamental things you need in labs. They teach you to use a pipette. I remember the first day the instructor said, “Everybody here, do you all know how to use a micro-pipette?” And I’d never used one before. And so everybody was very quiet. Everybody knew, but I’m like, “I’m just going for it. I’m just gonna tell him. I know I don’t have any experience.” I stick my hand up and lo be it, I stick my hand up and like fifty percent of other people put their hand up. Like we all didn’t know. Like a lot of us did not know how to use a micro-pipette. We really had very little experience. We learned to— we literally, physically learned to run channels, do a lot of basic stuff that most people are exposed to previously. But I was just not exposed to it. Even with working in a forensic lab, even with working previously in the research area, I never had those experiences.

	K:	And so this was in your PhD program?



	B:	In my PhD program, the beginning of my PhD program.



	K:	So could you tell me more about your experience in your PhD program?



	B:	So for my PhD program we started with you do three rotations in the College of Med and you have core courses that you have to do. And so I rotated in three labs. I wanted to do structural biology. Dr. Mavis McKenna was African American





and I didn’t want it to look like, Oh I’m going to just go directly to a female African American. So I really did try to rotate with other groups. But it turned out that—so the first person I rotated with was Dr. Dunne. And I was interested in—he’s biochemistry so he did—I knew I wanted to do biochemistry, molecular biology, so I didn’t go to any other specialty. But he worked on malaria and HIV. But I seem to be more interested in the structural biology. So I wanted to be medically relevant, but I was somehow more interested in the structure component. And the next rotation I did was with Dr. Edison, who did NMR. More structure. And I think Dr. Dunne, while I was in his lab, he said, “You seem to be really focused on structural biology. In fact, you seem really comfortable. You seem to do it well.” I did do some of that at Florida Atlantic University. Their NMR—I mean the chemistry, most of the chemistry I did was in structural biology. So that seemed like the progression. He said, “I think Dr. Mavis McKenna would be ideal for you.” And then I looked at all the things that she did and I’m like, “She’s really good, and I really like all these projects.” So I came and I asked. I said, “Could I rotate with you?” And she said, “Yeah, of course you could rotate.” I think everybody who asked her if they could rotate, she allowed them to. And so I rotated and I never left. I really, when I came here, everything was really actually exactly what I wanted to do. It was doing research to specifically address a medical problem. And I have the option to work not just on animals. I work with a plant virus. I work with animal virus. I work with not just the virus itself, but the potential application to cure whatever disease that you’re looking at. I use skills that, some skills I have to—here’s a chance to learn all the things I want to learn. All the techniques





that I want to learn and to use it. I think as a mentor, the lab was conducive. The people who are in the lab, it was a very mixed lab in terms it was multiracial. You have every race I felt like was here. And the chemistry was good. Everybody were workaholics. The professor, there’s two, Dr. Robb and Dr. Mavis, and they’re interactive. They micromanage almost, but it’s the kind of micromanagement that gets the job done. And I feel like all the students get a chance to—they’re always well-prepared. They spend the time to prepare you, to get you ready. They make time. They respond to your email immediately. That’s something that I really enjoy immensely. I feel like for the first I had a mentor who said, “Okay, you could do all this. You could go everywhere and anywhere. The potential is in you.” And it didn’t matter what you look like. It didn’t matter that you’re female. All that didn’t matter. All that matter is that you get the work done and you take it to the end. You contribute something. What you do is valid and it’s important.

	AK:	Did you feel anytime in your career that you personally experienced racism or sexism?

	AB:	So I don’t necessarily know about sexism. I do feel that there were times—and it may just have been me that I started to become more sensitive to what I would see sometimes as racism. Let me see. And I may simply have misinterpreted. It was a time when—so in our program I remember there was three of us, three or four African American. There were sixty-four or sixty-five of us who started, and it was four of us who were African American. I remember pretty much for all the courses that I did, I felt like I got a good grade in the core course. And there was





one course that I did where I thought I studied really hard and I worked really well and the four of us, the four of us African American, we didn’t do really well in that core course. And that felt to me very odd. Cause it was weird that it was the four of us who didn’t well, so it’s either all four of us misinter—and we all didn’t study together. So that made it even worse. We either all just did not understand what was being taught, but it was just the four of us who didn’t do well. And we had all, I felt like of the group, there was two of us who had done well in all the core courses. And then there was others that had gone up and down in terms of doing well. And so that was the first time I kind of felt a little bit uncomfortable. Like this did not feel like it was fair. This felt a little bit like it was just about my color. So that was the kind of first time that I started to feel anything like that. And I do think that sometimes I don’t pay attention, because I always say that I grew up in the Caribbean, and in the Caribbean there’s not this—I’m not that aware of racial tensions. So I feel like in the Caribbean people are more focused on class rather than color or race. So we have a mixed—so somebody’s who’s Asian is—if you try to segregate them and say, “Oh, you’re Asian,” they’ll tell you, “No, we’re Jamaican.” Their classification of themself is not their cultural origin. Their classification is based on the fact that they’re born and grown in Jamaica. And so it feels like a very mixed environment. And people were more focused on your class and your education. Like things that you are in control of. You are control of academically what you do with yourself. You’re in control of whether you decide to work or not work. And so it was strange because for the first time I started to connect you are really not home. People do care about your color. And I just





started noticing. There was one of the young ladies who had started dating and got married to somebody who was Caucasian. I just started to see how people responded. I started to see my very close friends who were Caucasian, how people would start behaving towards us when they thought that we were probably a little more than just friends. Those are the times that I became aware of the fact that, “Okay, you’re African American and you’re kinda different.” Or you’re Caribbean. And it was a little weird, because I really did not identify, I didn’t seem to also identify with African Americans either. That made it a little weird. Because I look like African American, but I guess my accent will say that I’m not African American.

	AK:	Were there any other cultural differences from coming from Jamaica to the United States for you?

	AB:	So yeah, I think in just the way… I think in everything. The food, I think the taste is very different. I always say that we use a lot of natural spices to flavor our food. So home we have things like helpers, like maids. And it’s not considered derogatory. It’s a job and it’s an important part of our culture. People apply for, they come to the job to work. But here a maid is considered like a little bit derogatory. Cause they’re viewed like a servant and you’re like, “No.” That’s kind of a culture shock. And people still do look at me a little bit like, if somebody—so one of things that I’ve done is I got a fellowship to teach at Morehouse. It’s a predominantly African American college. It’s an opportunity to work in an environment, to contribute something to another school that is predominantly African American. And so it was also very different there culturally. Even though





it was African American, I think the way people view things and view education, it’s very different than home. So education home is an opportunity. And so that’s a very important part of everybody’s life. While here, education is a right. And everybody have a right to an education. Even if they don’t want it. And that was a cultural shock. How can you be forced to be educated? Didn’t everybody want it if they could? But it was also good to see that home you have to take every scholarship, take every opportunity, while here I felt a lot more like there’s so much more opportunity available. There’s more access here like, “Here’s all this money, do this. Please do this.” Home it’s you want it. You do it because you want it. The drive is there. You want to do it and the only way you don’t do it is because there’s no opportunity. While here, there’s all the opportunity and I always worry that, I feel like the opportunity is not being utilized. Especially by minorities, not just African American. By other minorities.

	AK:	Did the mentors that you had, did they have gender and cultural competency? And did you feel in this department or in this field that people are comfortable talking about sensitive issues like race or gender? That’s two different questions. One about your mentors and one about generally speaking in science, in the College of Medicine.

	AB:	So in terms of competency, and you will interview the main mentor I’ve had since I’ve been here. So I’ve had two, I wanna say Dr. Ben Dunne was one of the mentor. So yes, definitely. I thought he run the HDMI program here at UF for a very long time. It was dear to his heart. He was definitely competent. I believe he was one of the scholars here. I also had Dr. Nicholas Muzyczka. He’s an eminent





scholar. He’s a gene therapy guru. I think he was also a mentor for Dr. Mavis McKenna when she came here. He was like one of my co-mentors. So he was—I really like him. His style is very different. He’s very hands-off, where you’re allowed to just kind of figure it out. Which also works, right. Sometimes you just need that space to get there. To kind of get the ideas cemented in your head.

And Dr. Mavis McKenna, I think she has established a certain standard. A standard of excellence in everything that she does. And being mentored by her, the same expectation—I mean everybody expects the same from me. And so in terms of competence, I don’t see that associated with race. I do it see a little bit of—so I want to teach. I really do want to teach. That’s a very big part of where ultimately I want to go. And there’s one professor that I always admired, he passed away. Dr. Allison, and he’s a male and he’s Caucasian. And I thought he was really great at teaching and I’ve come to learn that he was not considered, he was not really high on the totem pole. It was not considered the prestigious thing to do. You really want to do research and bring in a lot of money. But he was the one who did most of the biochemistry lectures. And to me, I really admired him. And now that he’s gone, and multiple people have to teach that course, they realize how valuable he was. Because he did it. He was the only one. He really did it by himself. Coordinated it, got it done. So many students went through his course. You have to do this course for the College of Medicine if you want to be a medical doctor, this biochemistry. And it’s also offered in Chemistry. But if you want to apply to Medicine, medical schools require that you do it. And he did it really well, so that to me was a little disparaging. Like, “But





teaching is the important part!” Professors have to teach even though they don’t want to. They want to do their research, and here’s somebody who that’s what he wants to do. That has me a little bit worried about transitioning eventually into that kind of position. But I think in order to be a good lecturer, professor, teacher, you have to stay in the cutting-edge research, because then what you teach, if it’s antiquated and out-dated, then it’s not relevant. It’s useless to students. And so I think the best teachers are the ones who stay in research and who are competitive in terms of grants and doing research.

AK:  Also by competence I meant like cultural competence. So it’s how well are you able to address, to talk about issues that might be sensitive. So do you feel like your mentors, if you had a race or gender, you could talk to them about it?

	AB:	So my mentor I could. I wouldn’t feel comfortable talking to necessarily anybody else in the department, because our department predominantly male, predominantly Caucasian. So it becomes—unless something happened, I would necessarily be comfortable talking about a race issue. But if somebody brought it up. If somebody brought up a race issue and said, “How would you deal with it then?” Then definitely.

	AK:	So generally speaking do you feel like in the College of Medicine or the department, it’s a comfortable atmosphere to talk about issues like that?

	AB:	Um. So I would say that I don’t know. Because it’s not something that we openly talk about. I would talk about it with Dr. Mavis and Dr. Robb because Dr. Mavis is the same race and Dr. Robb is married to Dr. Mavis and he has expressed his views. He’s not racist. So that actually really helps. It’s something we typically





talk about in the lab because we’re a multi-racial lab. So it’s something we’re very comfortable with. But in terms of in the overall department, that’s not something that you would typically bring up, unless something happened that would stimulate a conversation. Then yes. If it is that something stimulate a conversation, we’ll definitely feel comfortable talking about it. But, it’s not something that’s brought up. So to talk about it without it being brought up would be uncomfortable. Is that what you’re asking me?

	AK:	So there’s not diversity workshops or that type thing?



	AB:	So there is just for that. So there is a minority group in the College of Medicine that does things like that. They specifically will invite minority faculty to functions, to kind of just increase interaction between the minority faculty. But it is specifically for minority faculty. It’s not an integrated—does that make sense?

	AK:	Yeah, yeah.



	AB:	So it’s not like we have a forum that will specifically address diversity among all of us. Does that make sense?

	AK:	Yeah. That’s what I was wondering.



	AB:	So it is a separate. And I’ve gone a few times. I support it, but I’m more accustomed to an integrated environment.

	AK:	No, that makes sense, me too. So did you do a post-doc here as well? AB:	Yes.

	AK:	How was that experience?



	AB:	So because I stayed in the same lab to do a post-doc, because I have a family.



And my family, they were pretty young when I started. He was four years old





when I started my PhD, my son. And so it was important for me not to change him because he’s autistic. Which means change is very difficult for him. He’s in college now, so yay. [Laughter]. So I decided to stay and Dr. McKenna decided to keep me. And so that made it a lot easier, because as a mentor, I kept my mentors. Dr. Muzyczka, Dr. Mavis McKenna. And the department is the same department.

	AK:	So you kept the same mentors? AB:	Yes.

	AK:	Did you get to teach at all yet or is that something for the future?



	AB:	So I did teach. I went to Morehouse and taught. I developed a course, and I taught there. So I haven’t taught here, which is something that I really want to do. We had plans, we just got so busy, to develop a course in the department and to teach it. And I think we got the approval to do it. So I just really need to take the time and get that started.

AK:  So could you share from your experience at Morehouse anything that you learned from your teaching experiences that might benefit up-and-coming scientists, like especially students or women of color?

	AB:	So one of the things that I think that you need to do—so Morehouse is an all- male college. And they did have some female teachers. I felt like the things— okay, one thing you need to make sure is that the head of your department, you have somebody who is in your corner. So you really do have to make sure that for whatever department that you decide to go in, that you may start out—I mean nobody knows you, right? So you will start out not being well-known, but you





should spend the time to be interactive, to interact academically with the staff. And to kind of make sure that you set the standard that you want and not go to the standard that they’re at. So if their standard is not at the same standard. So one of the things that I noticed when I taught is that the research labs were not utilized a lot. And that was a problem for me. And so I maintained that the times that I was not teaching, I was in lab. And students, the students that were coming, they knew I was there. And even people going to other professors, they’d come find me. Because I was there. It was important that you stay consistent. If you were required to do something, then you do it. And you make sure you’re on time and you respond promptly to requests being made. At the same time, so I’m very humble, but you do have to be a little bit aggressive to things that you need. I know that here I’ve been fortunate. The things that I need, if I don’t get it when I need it, Dr. Mavis McKenna, she will—she’s like, “No.” This is it. She’ll push until she gets it. And that’s a good mentorship for me. And so when I needed something, I pushed until I got it. It took them a long time to get me an ID card. I’m like, “No. I need an ID card now.”

	AK:	Is that something you learned from Dr. McKenna. To be—



	AB:	I felt that way. I felt like I learned from her that if there’s something you need— and there’s other ways of getting it. It doesn’t mean that you have to—I kept going on the secretary, to the head of the department, “I need an ID.” She’s supposed to send a letter. She didn’t. So I just went to the head of the head.

They were my friends, I was very careful to check-in with them, “How are you?” I made myself sociable so that I could at least talk and interact with somebody.





Check-in: “Is there anything else that I need to do to become more established in this organization?” Things that I needed, I would say, “Okay, we need this for the lab or we need this.” And so even though I wasn’t at some of the meetings then, I always got feedback to say, “Oh. This supervisor felt that probably you’re a little pushy.” That’s all right. That to me was not an insult. That was perfectly fine, because I got what I needed and my students got what they needed. And as far as I’m concerned, that was the important thing. And I think—I didn’t stay there, but that was really important for me to figure out, “Okay, nobody’s going to just give you the stuff.” If you needed access, I needed access to get the things to the students. And I waited and waited. And then I sent emails, I CC all the relevant people. So I went directly to the IT people. “I need this. Here is my qualifications. I am adjunct faculty. Here is my identification. What else do I need to get it done?” I got it done the next day. So you do need to be—and it is not my nature. It really isn’t my nature. My nature is I will be the one to say, “Okay, you go ahead.” If there’s a competition, “I don’t like to compete. You take it.” But you do learn that if you need it, you just have to—that’s what you need. And if you need it for the students, then you need it for the students.

	AK:	Something you said reminded me of a question I skipped. So there was a recent study that many women of color said that the lack of an influential mentor, so not just a mentor but somebody who is really a decision-maker, was a barrier to advancement in their career in STEM. So I was just wondering if you could talk about if you agree with the importance of—





	AB:	I agree one hundred percent. I had a friend who was African American who was in my program. And when we were doing our PhD, when she got to the stage where she needed to have somebody look over her PhD thesis, she came to my mentor. I don’t even know if she was on her committee. She came to her to kind of just help her, to go through, “Is this okay?” And so that was really important.

Her mentor complained to my mentor and that bothered me. I think one day he sat and he said, “Oh, you have to be like Dr. Mavis McKenna because she’s so exceptional.” And blabbity blah. And I thought myself, “I didn’t like that. I didn’t think that was appropriate for him.” He’s Caucasian and he’s her mentor. He should mentor her. He should make her the best that she could be. And she was not in my opinion, and I may be wrong, she was not lazy. She really worked hard all the time. But I also think that she was also really very sensitive to the issue of race and I don’t know where that stemmed from. But not having—I could clearly see that not having a mentor, somebody who was strong, somebody who was influential, somebody who could make things happen, affect her. She ended up eventually getting her stuff done and leaving. But I knew that it was really very hard for her. So yeah, I totally agree.

	AK:	Thank you. Did you talk about the research projects that you did while you were at UF?

	AB:	Yes, so several research projects. So I worked adino-associated virus, it’s a gene therapy virus. I am more interested in the assembly components, so how does this virus assemble? And the research that I do, hopefully we believe that if we know how the virus assembled, then we keep trying to change it to make it





better targeting for whatever disease or whatever tissue we’re trying to target. And so one of the things that I do is I kind of figure out which areas we could change or which areas are not allow change so that when they mutate it to use it, then you will know what not to change. Let me see. The other area that I work on is a farm virus, even though I’m in the medical school, I still work on this gemini virus. So it’s maystreet virus that affect maize or corn. And anytime there’s an outbreak, then that virus will devastate crops. And devastation of crops mean no money and mean farmers don’t survive and we don’t have what we need to make the staples that we need. And so I also work on its assembly and we have come up with—what do you call it? Like an acid to stop its assembly, sorry to follow how it’s assembled and how it disassemble. And potentially check inhibitors of the process so that we could up with, not a cure, but a treatment or something that will inhibit a pesticide. We don’t like pesticides because when you think of food plants, then you don’t want to use pesticides. But something biological that we could use. And now I started working on another virus. It’s a virus that affect pig. People here love their bacon and eat it, but that’s another area that I work on.

	AK:	So is that what you’re working on right now? AB:	All three. Yeah, I work on all three.

	AK:	And you had been working on similar things in your PhD? AB:	Yeah.





	AK:	Can you talk about any work-focused obstacles or obstacles outside of the academy that women of color might face when pursuing their career in science? So either in work or outside of work.

	AB:	So I don’t—so I think women in general, to start, the difficulty that you face, I think, is if you’re not as aggressive as your male counterpart, than you don’t achieve as much. And not because you’re not capable, but because you’re just not instinctively aggressive. I was talking to one of the other female, like an undergrad, yesterday and we both were passive so when we both said sorry.

And then we’re like, “Sorry for what?” It’s as if we apologize for that the fact that we are here. We shouldn’t. We have a right to be here. And so the biggest obstacle is your perception of who you are and what you can do, compared to your male counterpart. And I do believe that once you overcome that obstacle, once you start with, “Wait a minute. I have a right to be here. I am just as intelligent as just as capable.” Yes, I have the limitations. I have a family. It should be a good thing, but it means that I can’t spend the same amount of time. But you know, men have families, too. And they need to go home. So it could potentially be a limitation. But it doesn’t have to be. I could say that’s one of the things, that having a supervisor or a PI or colleagues that are aware that, “Okay, wait a minute. I have a family and I have to leave to take of my family.” And that not be a problem is important. But that could be an obstacle if they’re like, “No.

The meeting is this time.” But you’re like, “No, I got to pick up my son this time.” So that’s really big. For me, I was fortunate. I lived in Diamond Village, which is just behind the building. So I could come at seven in the morning, but I could also





leave at 3 in the afternoon to make sure that he’s there and I would spend a full complement of time. And if I have a meeting, then I have somebody who will keep him. So that could be an obstacle because I could definitely see if my professor said, “Actually, that’s not going to work for me.” Then what do you do? Got to find somebody who will actually understand. But that’s just being a woman. In terms of a woman of color, I think the biggest obstacle is going to be your perception of what you can and cannot do. And once you overcome that, people will treat you the way that you portray that you want to be treated. So if you want to be treated like second class or if you don’t make a stand or make a statement, then they’ll just keep doing it. But if you make a stand and say, “Well actually, no. No, I’m not doing that. That is not something that I am comfortable doing.” It doesn’t mean that you have to be selfish. I do believe that you could be generous if somebody needs something, of course you could do it. I’ve been fortunate that being generous has been good for me, because I get to collaborate a lot. And people know that in the collaboration, that I will do my part. I am not going to just take their resources and not contribute. But that’s also something that I learned. That’s something that Dr. Mavis has like—and if I make a contribution, she will say, “No.” She will like, “That contribution has to either come by saying it in the paper or including me in authorship.” And so that’s something I learned: that when you make a contribution—before I would say, “Oh, I don’t care.” But more and more you learn that, no, when you make a contribution, it should be acknowledged. Because what you do is worth something. And so I don’t know, probably that is something that could be an obstacle.





	AK:	Just because maybe they don’t know that that’s how it should be?



	AB:	Right. You may not know. Personally, if I wasn’t trained that way, would I know? I would just say, “Okay, fine. If you don’t want to mention it, it’s fine. It’s no big deal.” But no. It probably wouldn’t happen with somebody who is—and I don’t know, I’m saying probably—first of all it wouldn’t happen if it was a male. They’d be like, “Whoa buddy. Now that’s not going to work.” Or if they’re—and I don’t know. Cause to be fair, it hasn’t happened to me so it’s not fair to say that this is something that happened to everybody. But somebody might say, “Oh it’s just a female. Or it doesn’t matter, it’s that person. They’re kind. They don’t care.” But no, that’s not how it works. You should care. You should acknowledge a contribution no matter where it comes from.

	AK:	Also, so Black women are eight percent of the U.S. population but less than one percent of the tenured research faculty at the College of Medicine. How do you think that the academy and specifically the university can better reinforce the pipeline for underrepresented people in academic research to have more diversity?

	AB:	Yeah, so I was thinking about that. So the question is: do you want to be tenured? What is the requirement to be tenured? That’s going to be part of your training. That’s going to determine that. So the question is—I mean we all want to be tenured, right? But they’re not that many tenured position available. So you have to—so the question is, are you not being tenured simply because you have all the requirements of tenure but because you’re Black you’re not getting it? Or is it that you don’t have the requirements? So it wouldn’t be fair to expect the





university to lower the requirements to make you tenure. Because then that just defeats the purpose of getting it. So if it is that you’re not getting it simply because of your race and not because you’re not qualified, then yes, the university needs to do something.

	AK:	Or even beyond the question of tenure, just generally, I guess getting people into science or into research.

	AB:	So it’s a limitation—do African American females look at it as something that we cannot achieve? Then if that’s the problem, then we do have programs just for this. To recruit African American females and males into certain programs. Just awareness, first of all. So I do think that those programs exist and we do that all the time. We allow students into our labs. This lab is very open if a professor asks for whatever: high-schoolers, females, African American, whatever. We’re open to allowing students. We have SSTP students over the summer. We do little mini-projects. So I know that we know that here and if we could do that more, of course. That is always something that you want to do. If it is that you think that we should have a body set-up to target, I don’t necessarily know.

Because like I was saying, a part of it has to be your interest. Are you interested in it? So if you are interested in it, yes. Programs should exist to encourage that. But if you’re not interested, it shouldn’t be that the programs should hunt you down. To say, “You’re African American, and you should do this. Here’s all this money, just do it for the money.” It really should be because if they’re interested, yes. The programs should exist and encourage it. To not make it harder.

Because I do hear stories of people make it harder for minorities, not just African





Americans, or make it harder for females. So yes, I agree. Programs should exist for that.

	AK:	So do you have any other ideas of how to make it more open or welcoming? Anything you would change about how labs or these types of things operate? The College of Medicine?

	AB:	So that’s a good question.



	AK:	I mean you sort of answered, like having more programs, more outreach.



	AB:	So it would be more awareness, rather than—so yeah. It would have to be more awareness rather than targeted program. So that’s a very good point. Students will not know of something, will not know they’re interested in something if they’re not exposed to it. And in some schools, some areas, they’re just not exposed. So that’s definitely something that we could continue to do. I know that they do have some programs in some schools so we could possibly expand it to really have programs where we actually can go into the schools and whatever our skill-set is, to kind of encourage those programs. Providing anyway we can. Like opportunities for people who like to teach, opportunities to teach in these schools. Probably teach certain lab experiments. And it would give the kids the exposure to something that they wouldn’t see before and still if more of us who are in the program would contribute to those in terms of our time, that would definitely help. Because they’d be like, “Whoa. I didn’t know that.” You could have a professor that’s—

	AK:	Do you have undergraduates in your lab as well as graduate students? Is it mostly just graduate students?





	AB:	Undergraduates—we have a lot. I want to say at any one time, we have twenty, twenty, thirty undergrads.

	AK:	Oh wow. So I think that’s it for my questions. Is there anything else you’d like to add?

	AB:	No. [Laughter]. [End of Interview]





	Audit edited by:	Holland Hall, April 17, 2018 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 20, 2020