AAHP 419; Brown; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 419 Alberta Brown

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Vickie Oldham on August 10, 2015 50 minutes | 22 pages



Abstract: Ms. Alberta Brown reflects on her life experiences in this interview. She shares how due to her father’s passing, her mother could not keep up with the sharecropping labor on her own. They moved to Palmetto and eventually to Sarasota, Florida where some family lived. She describes learning to love the work she had to do which included farming and cooking. She discusses working as a cook for two families, one where she lived in house and another where she commuted. She also shares her time having polio and the little to no health care access she had until she had her children.



Keywords: [Newtown, Florida; Florida Black History; African American History; Black Domestic Labor]



Standards

1. SS.912.A.2.6 Sharecropping







































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 419 (Newtown Oral History Project) Interviewee: Alberta Brown

Interviewer: Vickie Oldham Date: August 10, 2015



	O:	Give me your name. B:	Alberta Brown.

	O:	And when you were born? B:	1930.

	O:	Where were you born? B:	In Alachua County.

	O:	Alachua County in Florida. Tell me about your life in Alachua. The earliest memories.

	B:	After my father died, we didn't have anybody to do the plowing. My mom had to get other mens to come in and work on the farm for her which costed her so much because she had to pay those mens to work because my brother was too young to try to do anything like that. He was only about twelve when my father died. So anyway she called her brother, here in Sarasota, Florida, and she had a brother in Palmetto. She had two brothers. So she was trying to ask them what could they do to help her and some way of getting her children to work. Because at that time we was not working. And so my mother, she would try to do the plowing, she would try to get people to do it. And it was very hard; we couldn't really do too much.

	O:	You lived on a farm way out in Alachua County.



	B:	Yeah sharecropper. It was sharecropping. So after she did not have a husband to do the plowing and everything. We had to move. So my mom wanted to leave Alachua and come to Palmetto where we could get work. So we could work on





the farms. We could go at least and my mom would not have to go out. She would who all had children, that's all she could do and do dinners and everything like that. But we could work. And so we would go on the farms and work all day, days after days. We learned to love it, once we got into it, going to work every day.

	O:	And this was in Palmetto? B:	Palmetto.

	O:	What kind of fruits or vegetables were you helping to harvest?



	B:	Tomatoes, green beans, just anything that would work on a farm. Anything it was a lot of stuff that we could pick because the fields had to be picked. So we would go out work daily, every day. Even down to Saturdays, if they wanted us for Saturdays. So it was hard but we had learned how to like it because you fall in love with things when you got to do it. [Laughter] So you know that you got to do it, so you just do it. And like I said, if you don't like something, you not gonna do a good job and we did good jobs.

	O:	What did you like about it? Did you sing songs out there or what?



	B:	We did all kinds of things and we met so many different peoples. It wasn't just a little of people it was a lot. On the farm sometimes we had fifty or sixty people to pick the stuff that we needed to do. I really liked it. I got to like it. And we had a good time. We start to do singing. We do different things. It got so funny— sometimes the mens would help us do it and if they like you, they did most of your work anyway. [Laughter] So we got to the place we had relationships find you out there a new boyfriend. You didn't have to work as hard. He would do





double duty: yours and his. So it was fun after a while it got to be that way. So we stayed in Palmetto for maybe a few years and then we came to Sarasota. And so we came to Sarasota, so we got to working into home then. We started working. My oldest sister, which was your grandmother, she got us jobs.

	O:	She got you jobs?



	B:	Yeah, she got us jobs. Like I'd work with her. She had a little girl that she was taking care of and cooking, she was the cook. So I got hooked up that job-

[Photographer enters]



	B:	So I stayed on that job four or five years and my sister stopped cooking and I took the job and started to cook and that's when I started to learn how to really cook. My sister would teach me how to do it.

[Phone ringing]



O:   So Alberta, take us back to when you were farming. You said that you had a lot of fun, that you were dating [Laughter] or trying to date there in the field but you were also singing. What kind of songs?

B:  Christian songs. All of us had a voice; we had a beautiful voice. And we loved to sing and we did all kinds of things, singing and speaking on things that we knew about. It was a good life.

O:   Were there more women out there than men or more men than women?



	B:	Oh much more womens than there was men because mens could get a job. Womens, we really couldn't get a job. I mean probably you could if you was working in a home because we did find it when we got to Sarasota after a while, about two years after I was here. Like I said my sister stopped working and she





put me to work. She wanted me to cook. So I start the cooking and so that's how I got my jobs and everything that we had.

	O:	Out of the field and into a home. [Interruption]

	O:	So what was your first job?



	B:	This was the one I was already working to because I was already taking care of the little girl and my sister just stopped her job and, in fact, she started to train me as soon I got there. I would help her with the food and everything. I would take the little girl out to different places and do things with her and it was a good job and we had a good time. Just cooking and everything. That's how I learned to cook, is my sister taught me how to cook. She did.

	O:	Where was this house where the little girl lived? B:	Oh Siesta Key.

	O:	Do you remember their names?



	B:	I really don't. It's been so long. I was very young then. O:	How old?

	B:	Had to be like in my still twenties.



	O:	So when you were in the homes, was my grandmother married then to Shelly? B:	At the beginning, yes. That's why she stopped working, is because after her and

Shelly married, he did not want her to work because it would have meant that she would have been out there so many days, sometimes she couldn't come home. It'd be so late when she do come home. So that's why she gave up the job and I was there and I wanted the job.





	O:	So talk about the work that he did because he was out there on Siesta Key doing some work. What kind of work did your brother-in-law do?

	B:	He cleaned yards, cut trees down, he did all kinds of work for outside. He had so many families that he was taking care of on Siesta Key. So he did a whole lot of work out there. He did whatever they needed him to do, plant things, and he did all kinds of work. He would even plant a garden if they needed one.

O:  As I understand it, you said the cutting down the trees, like before the developers came in, he would help clear the land. There were a lot of rattle snakes out there and a lot of wild foliage, talk about that.

	B:	Yes, well he had to be very careful and especially at night, and he had to come out the house night. Every night we had to come out there to get to your room. We had a room, you didn't go home. That was another reason why he wanted her to quit the job. See she was not coming home at night. When you fixed dinner it was around seven o'clock. So you had to fix the dinner, clean up everything after you cook and cleaned up everything and put it back just like it was. Then you'd go into room.

	O:	You stayed then over in this house. B:	Yes, I had a room onto the carport.

	O:	Okay so then you would stay out there all week on Siesta Key? B:	Yes.

	O:	What days did you have off?





B:  It was most of the weekends because we would like to go to church and stuff like that. So it was mostly the week. So I stayed there for—I don't know how long. But it was a long time. Maybe seven or eight years.

O:  You were single all that time. B:  Yes.

	O:	What did you enjoy most about that work?



	B:	You didn't have a time. Only thing they'd ask for was the dinner, that was on time. Everything else you could come late. If I didn't have a whole lot to do, I really didn't have to come in. I could just stay in my room. I knew what I had to do so I would just go in whenever I felt like it. They really didn't need me because then I wasn't babysitting anymore. She I didn't babysit after that. Someone else was doing the babysitting. So I only had just the cooking to do. So whenever I needed to come in, I knew what time it took me to do this, so I would just come in and have it all—And the last job that I had, I stayed until this lady, she was very sick, and she was the nicest person I have ever met in my whole life. She told me, she says, "Alberta." She says, "I want you to continue to stay for a long as you life or I live," she says. And I said, "Okay." She said, "And you'll have a check in the mail the rest of your life." I've had that check for sixteen years now since that was the last job I had.

	O:	Wow. Before we get to that job, I want to find what you did while you were waiting to do the cooking. What would you do in your room?

	B:	Oh I would sing. I would do this just to— O:	Keep yourself occupied.





	B:	Uh-huh.



	O:	Was there anybody else in the room or just you? B:	No, just me.

	O:	And you were the only cook in the house. B:	Yes.

	O:	The little girl, what was that like taking care of the little girl before you just became the cook?

	B:	Well I take her to the beach, we go places. I could take her in the car because I could drive and I could take her wherever I need to go. If she wants to go with me, fine. So it was just a nice job. Really it was. And I took care of her and she loved me just so sweet. Oh gosh it was so sweet. That whole family though was a beautiful family. That was some kind of a family.

	O:	You enjoyed their house? B:	Yes.

	O:	Did you become a part of the family?



	B:	I think so because I don't think they would have paid me the rest of my life. O:	Okay this was the second lady.

	B:	Yeah. This the second lady, not the first one.



	O:	The second one. Well you know what, let’s talk about the second lady now. How did you find that job? What was her name?

	B:	Mrs. Cook.



	O:	Jane Bancroft Cook. B:	That's right.





	O:	How did you find that job?



	B:	I worked for a doctor and his wife and they moved. They decided to move and they had a son that was retarded and I took care of him, even at my house. I brought him home. If they went out of town, he was gonna stay with me at my house. And so they got a divorce and they moved. And so after the divorce, and everything, and they moved, and everything, she came back here. She moved to California. And so she came back here and she came by over to see me and I wasn't working. And she said, "How are you doing?" and I said "Fine," and we were talking and she said, "Do you want a job?" And I said, "Yeah. I'm kinda ready to go back to work." And she said her cook had just died and she's looking for a cook. And now she said, "Oh Alberta," she said, "Please take the job." She said, "She's so nice and you need to be with her." That's the way she said it.

	O:	And this was her friend?



	B:	Yeah that was her friend. And so I said, "Okay." So she told me, she said, "Go and see her." So I got up and got dressed and went out to see her and she looked at me, she says, "Oh you're beautiful." And I said, "No I'm not!" She says, "Oh you look beautiful." I guess she had talked about me but that's the way she said it. So me and her just got along so good.

	O:	So she hired you that day?



	B:	She hired me that day. Sure did.



	O:	And did you have to live at her house?



	B:	No I never lived at her house. That was one thing that I didn't need but she always told me she didn't want me to quit. She said, "I don't want you to [quit].





You're a good cook and I love it." She say, "You do such good work." I'd never cleaned anything in that house. Only when they went away and they were coming back, then I could get someone to come in and clean the house. So I would take one of my friends to come in and we'd go in there to go and get in there and clean that house. Get it all straightened up for her. They was only here six months out of the year.

	O:	Okay where did they go back to? B:	Oh gosh, I forgot the town.

	O:	That's okay, what kind of food did you cook for the Cook family?



	B:	Most about everything. They like most of the things that I cook. We'll make a menu.

	O:	At the beginning of the week?



	B:	At the beginning of the week and that's what we'll have. O:	All week?

	B:	All week, we had planning ahead.



	O:	Now where did you shop? Did you shop for the groceries? B:	Sometimes. At—

	O:	Morton's?



	B:	Morton's that's where we got our groceries from. They would deliver them. If I wanted them, I'd just go down there say what I need and they would deliver them. Or either I call, it's up to me whatever I did. Sometime I would go down there and sometime I just call and they'll deliver.

	O:	Did you have a car Alberta?





	B:	Yes, I did.



	O:	Because Mrs. Barbara was talking about when she came up, few people in Newtown had a car so that there were taxi stands and cabs that you could get from point A to point B.

	B:	Right it was.



	O:	How did you have a car? What kind of car did you have?



	B:	It was just a regular car. It wasn't like I have now but it was a car. I think it was a Ford. But my husband had gotten a car for me.

	O:	Did the cooks live on Siesta Key or did they live in that little area where Morton's is? Cherokee Park?

	B:	Uh-huh. Cherokee Park, down by the water. O:	Okay so she had a house on the water?

	B:	Yeah right on the water.



	O:	Would you fish sometimes?



	B:	Never fished. I never was a fisher. [Laughter]



O:  Fisher you never was. So you just go out there and cook and basically come on back home?

B:  Yes, because by that time I had the boys. O:  You had your own kids?

B:   Yes, I had my kids and I had my grandchildren now. I had four boys that—I had all of until either they died. That was the only reason they would leave and I got two now that's still here.

O:   And you're talking about the ones that you adopted or fostered?





	B:	Yes, fostered, I didn't adopt them.



	O:	Okay you were a foster parent. So tell us about your children, of your own. B:	Larry—

	O:	He's your oldest.



	B:	Yeah, he's my oldest and he went to—I forgot I'm sorry. O:	Okay that's okay. And tell us who is the next oldest?

	B:	Deborah, my daughter. She finished school and she went to college. She never came back. She got married. [Laughter]

	O:	And went to Philadelphia. What about the third kid? B:	He's here, Kenny.

	O:	All right now you mention also about having a bout of polio. B:	Oh yeah.

	O:	Let's talk about that. How old were you?



	B:	Oh I had to be somewhere between twelve and fifteen. And my doctor said he knew I was going to be able to walk because at the time I was in Jacksonville with it. And I was in the hospital there.

	O:	So tell us how you got to Jacksonville.



	B:	Well what happened, we went to a place in Gainesville and they sent us to Jacksonville. And then I was there for almost a year. And then after that I began to walk. I started to walking and when I went come back, I had a-what you call them?

	O:	Crutches?





	B:	Crutches. I had my crutches and I would go to school and everybody was so nice. I don't know, I guess they all thought I wasn't gonna walk anymore. But I went to walking a little bit later. My doctor told me he said, "I know you're gonna walk because you not gonna sit still long enough." [Laughter]

	O:	So what happened that caused them to think that you had polio? Did you stop walking when you were in Sarasota at some point?

	B:	No.



	O:	How did you know that you had a problem?



	B:	You'd be sick and you can't walk. That's one of the things that you can't do.



	O:	Okay and so your mother took you to Gainesville and then Gainesville doctors said to take you to Jacksonville. Now this brings up a very important point, medical services in Sarasota at the time when you were young. What were the medical services like for Black people living in the Newtown area?

	B:	I don't believe it meant anything. If you got, you kept it. [Laughter] O:	You mean as an illness?

	B:	As an illness.



	O:	It's whatever you had, you just had to have it because you couldn't get treated? B:	You got treated if you went to the doctor but none of us—

	O:	To the doctor. Where did you go?



	B:	I didn't have a doctor until I had my children. When I start with the children, then I was able to get a doctor. But other than that I never went to a doctor when I was young.

	O:	Never. Sarasota Memorial Hospital existed but you didn't go.





	B:	I didn't go.



	O:	So when you got sick, how did you get treated?



	B:	See I was in Gainesville at the time that I had the polio. Sarasota I didn't never go to the doctor here because that's been years ago.

	O:	I understand that there were a few Black doctors like Chenault. Do you remember him?

	B:	Yeah.



	O:	He had an office where? In Newtown? B:	Mmhm. Right up on the corner there.

	O:	Okay but you never went to him. And there was a Dr. McAllister, a dentist. B:	Yeah, dentist.

	O:	But you never went?



	B:	I went to Dr. McAllister but I didn't go to Chenault.



	O:	And I understand that Sarasota Memorial Hospital had separate waiting rooms for patients.

	B:	Yeah.



	O:	Do you remember that? B:	Yes I do.

	O:	Really? Tell me about that. Why did you need to go to Sarasota Memorial Hospital?

	B:	I had to have surgery for one thing and I was bleeding myself to death almost. I didn't have a doctor and how I did that was, I finally found Dr. Specht and I was





able to get him. And he waited on me, he took care of me and then when I had to have surgery, he just said I had to have surgery and they did it.

	O:	Did he do the surgery? B:	No he did not.

	O:	I need to find out more about Harry O. Specht because I guess maybe he was one of the few doctors who treated Black patients.

	B:	Right.



	O:	Is that right? How did you find him?



	B:	I think, I can't remember completely, but I think where I worked, she got me the doctor.

	O:	This was the doctor that delivered me. B:	Oh yeah?

	O:	I remember him. I remember being treated by him. So what was it like waiting in those separate waiting rooms at the hospital? Did you think anything about it?

	B:	No.



	O:	It was just normal then, the separateness. B:	Mh-hm. They believed in it so—

	O:	You just dealt with it. B:	Yeah definitely.

	O:	Then growing up here and living in Newtown as a twenty-year-old and a thirty- year-old, talk to me about your life growing up here in the Newtown area. Did you shop in the shops along Twenty-seventh Street?

	B:	No, they had shops more downtown. You could downtown, anywhere downtown.





O:   Okay so you do remember going to stores in the downtown area?



B:   Oh yes. They J.C. Penny's and all of that was right downtown. So we was able to go down and shop. They didn't bother us with that.

O:  There was a period where the people older than you could not into the shops, like Fannie McDougal talks about not being able to go into Morrison's and the lunch counters and she was a part of the sit-ins. Do you remember that?

B:   Yes. I was not.



O:   Why?



	B:	I don't know. I can't remember why I didn't go. O:	Were you afraid maybe?

B:   Probably.



	O:	Because she said that she was fearless. She was younger. B:	Yeah she was. [Laughter]

	O:	So you did get service while you were having your children. You were able to get medical treatment.

	B:	Yes, I was. Most Black people went to Dr. Specht's.



	O:	Tell me about him. Describe him. What kind of guy was he?



B:  He was really nice. He was a nice person. He treated everybody the same way. That's what I like about him. His wife's mom, she was in that office, she was one of the people that was in that office.

O:   Working?





	B:	Yes, and she was not always nice. She'll have you wait longer than you should be waiting and she put someone else in there if she felt like it and you got wait on when you could. But all that ended too.

	O:	Tell me then more about Mrs. Cook and the kind of lady that she was. Did she work?

	B:	No-



	Jim:	I know who she's talking about. O:	You do?

	Jim:	Because I did an interview with her once. O:	Did you?

	Jim:	Her family owns the Wall Street Journal. B:	Yes.

[Laughter]



	Jim:	Very wealthy, she didn't have to work.



	O:	Oh my gosh. So Alberta cooked for her, interesting. So did her husband have to work?

	B:	Her husband died. I didn't even see him. I never seen him. She had been married twice.

	O:	And did you say she got sick? Did you enjoy working in her home? B:	Yes. Mh-hm. She got sick and she was sick a couple of years or so. O:	Did you take care of her? Nursing?

	B:	No, no. She had around the clock nurses. They was all RN. So the only thing I was doing was cooking.





	O:	She still wanted you to cook for her.



	B:	She want me to cook, she told me not to leave and I didn't leave her. O:	Were you there when she passed away?

	B:	No, because they would go up North every year for six months. They'd be here in Florida and then she would go up North.

	O:	And she said to you, she was always going to take care of you? B:	That’s what she told me and she’s done it.

	O:	Did you have contacts with her daughters, her children? B:	Yes, I still have one—

	O:	Did you help rear them or take care of them? B:	Not really, I got there too late to raise them. O:	Okay they were already teenagers?

	B:	Grown up. But the baby girl. Now I call her "Boopie." Her name is Elizabeth. We call her Boopie.

	O:	Why?



	B:	I don't know, that's the name they gave me when I got a chance to meet her and everything. And so I still call her Boopie. I don't think nobody call her Boopie but me. [Laughter] But when she call here, she'll call and say, "Tell Alberta call Boopie." And stuff like that. And she acknowledge the name. [Laughter]

	O:	So she remembers you very much and has been a wonderful person keeping the promise of her mother. That's what she's doing. Okay so Alberta I need to ask you about—you've become a foster mother. When did you start that and why did you do it?





	B:	I went to a meeting or something and they were talking about foster children. I said, "You know what I can do that." I said, "I have the room." I had a room at the time and my kids had all just about go out to do something of their own, or getting married or something like that. So I said, "You know, I think I'm going to do it." And oh we had a ball with these children. I'm telling you. We have had a good time with my boys. I mean a good time. Ms. Cook every time we went away she would give each boy so much money. Each boy I had, she would give money for them to have money to spend when we go away. That's the way she would treat me. Just give me so much money. And one time I was running for Queen.

	O:	At the church?



	B:	No, for my club. O:	What club is that?

	B:	Household of Ruth, Odd Fellows. [Laughter] And I raised $5,500. O:	Wow.

	B:	See it's a state thing and I was determined to bring in more money than anybody else and I did. [Laughter] And she was so sweet. She said, "Alberta." She says, "You're gonna win, don't worry about it." I said, "Lord" So that's when she started really doing for me. She made sure I was Queen, bought my dress, everything, just did everything.

	O:	What happened? You'd go out and pick out the dress or would she come along with you to pick out the dress?

	B:	No, she knew I knew how to pick it out and everything. She'd just tell me, "Go buy you something." And I said, "Why?" She says, "You said you got to be the





Queen. So you gonna have to have the proper dress." I said, "Thank you." So that’s what I did. I had a beautiful dress.

	O:	Did you all do anything together?



	B:	Not too much together because she had so many friends. She had good friends, a lot of friends.

	O:	Do you remember any of their names? B:	No, it's been sixteen years.

	O:	Let's go back to adopting these children. Why did you want to do that? Why? You just felt like I've got the room, I've been blessed? What?

	B:	I wanted to do something for somebody else. So when I got them into my home, they were mine. And they still is, I got two here that still is. They will not go. I got kind of sick one time and I said to the social worker, "I'm sick. I've been not feeling good. But I would like to see about getting my boys—" Bobby says, "No." I said, "What are you talking about?" I tried to act like I didn't know what he was talking about. [Laughter] He says, "No." I said, "Okay Bobby, you not gonna leave me is that right?" "Yes. I'm not leaving." John he come back, he says, "Mom. I'm not going anywhere." I said, "Okay."

	O:	How long have you had these boys? B:	Almost forty years.

	O:	Wow. Wow.



	B:	That's why they not going anywhere. They mine.



	O:	They are yours and since learning how to cook and cooking in the homes of Mrs. Cook and the other lady on Siesta Key, you have become say, known around the





community for cooking, say cooking at Bethel C.M.E. church. Talk about your cooking days there and the dinners and all of that.

	B:	We would sell dinners and we would just go in and I did most of the cooking.



Sometimes we'd have one or two of the girls do something.



	O:	What are your specialties?



	B:	Oh my God. My specialties is, you won't believe this, chitterlings. [Laughter] I wouldn't eat them for nothing in the world but I'll cook them. I'll fix them.

Chitterlings of all things, that's for the church and everything.



	O:	What about the Mac and Cheese? B:	Oh yeah. That's one of my specials.

	O:	You were featured in the newspaper, in the Sarasota Herald Tribune a long time ago. I remember for candied yams too and the cornbread.

	B:	Oh gosh yes. [Laughter] O:	I came go on and on.

	B:	You really can because I did a whole lot of cooking and still doing it, that's the thing about it. I'm still doing it. I have all the family over on Sundays.

	O:	And holidays.



	B:	Yes, all holidays.



	O:	You still love the cooking. B:	I love cooking. I really do.

	O:	Well Alberta, I have enjoyed our conversation. I want to know if you want to add anything to what we've said today?





	B:	No. I think most of my work is done. [Laughter] And I just want to not do anything.



I still cook and all that stuff but I meant I just don't want to work.



	O:	You're just enjoying your life. What kinda things do you do for enjoyment? I know you've done a lot of traveling.

	B:	Oh yeah I sure have. Where did I go the last time? I forgot.



	O:	I know you've been to Canada. You've been to Aruba. You’ve been—oh geez, all of the places and Mrs. Cook helped you to go to all of those places?

	B:	Oh yeah. Yes. Thank God for her.



	O:	And I know you've been very involved at Bethel C.M.E. church. Talk to me about your involvement at the church over the years.

	B:	Oh my goodness. I was over the Director of Youths. I sang in the choir. O:	You ran the kitchen probably.

	B:	Oh yes I did, and right now what we do now is pray. Three of us come here, we was doing it at the church. And when I got feeling kinda bad not so long ago, I just asked the two girls if they could come to my house. So every Tuesday at eleven o'clock we're here with prayer, just the three of us.

	O:	Wow praying for what?



	B:	Anybody who wants prayer. Anybody who asks for prayer, asks us to pray for them.

	O:	Okay. Well pray for me, I'm asking for prayer. B:	Okay, no problem.

	O:	Anything else you'd like to add Jim or her to add? Jim:	Well it's all great. Very good story.





	O:	Thank you. [End of Interview]





	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 10, 2020