AAHP 148; Jones; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 148 Herbert Jones

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Richard Salzberg on November 15, 2010 1 hour, 8 minutes | 32 pages



Abstract: Herbert Jones grew up in High Springs, Florida, and transferred from Douglass High School to A.L. Mebane High School in Alachua in 1962. He says that he never came face-to-face with racist segregation, though he knew about water fountains and other examples of it. He shares some of his experiences at Mebane and his memories of High Springs in the 1960s. Mr. Jones attended University of Florida, and participated in the Black Thursday protest in 1971. He withdrew from UF in protest along with many of the other students, and then transferred to the University of South Florida. He talks about some of the clubs and activities at Mebane when he went there, and the food they had in the cafeteria. He also discusses discipline at Mebane, and the activities he participated in such as singing and basketball. He and the interviewer also talk about 1960s fashion.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; A.L. Mebane High School; University of Florida; University of South Florida]











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 148

Interviewee: Herbert Jones Interviewer: Richard Salzburg Date: November 15, 2010



	S:	Today I’ll be talking to Mr. Herbert Jones. And my name is Richard Salzburg and we’re at the studio at Pugh Hall, the Samuel Proctor Oral History Project. And it’s Monday November 15, 2010. So Mr. Jones, the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program is interested in the story of Mebane High School. You are a person who attended this school, so can you tell us about it?

	J:	Yeah, I started Mebane in 1962. I was a freshman and we were all excited about going for—proud that I was at Douglass Junior High school. And our teachers would always talk to us about when we go there that the children there were going to be smarter than us. The boys were gonna to take your girlfriends, the girls was gonna take your boyfriends, and that kind of camaraderie. That’s what we were based on. When we got there we found that it was nothing like that. We were just as smart as they were and nobody took nobody’s girlfriend or boyfriend. I was elected as president of my freshmen class and stayed the president ‘til my senior year. My senior year someone else became the president of our class. At that time Mebane was segregated, and we would have to pass the White school, which was Santa Fe High school, in order to get to Mebane High School. And I understand that it was said that originally the Mebane school was supposed to be the Santa Fe school. I don’t know how they got switched out and stuff, ‘cause I think that was the model that they used. But anyway, we ended up at Mebane, and Santa Fe ended up where they are today. We had regular classes: English, maths, that type of thing, agriculture. And I can remember, I asked why did we have to take agriculture, and the guidance counselor said, “It’s designed to make





the farm boy feel at home.” I said, “Well I’m not a farmer, so I shouldn’t have to take that.” It was, to make them feel at home, but it was just a part of the curriculum, that everybody took that and all the girls took home-ec, home economics.

	S:	So you grew up in Alachua County? J:	Yes, High Springs.

	S:	Yeah I was going to ask you. That was going to be my first question, what it was like growing up in Alachua County. Did you—

	J:	You know, I never came face-to-face with the Jim Crow-type thing. I understand it was there, but I just never personally felt that. We had to drink the Colored water, and the White water. I think by the time around ‘bout [19]62, maybe that stopped happening, I’m not sure, I can’t say. But I just never came face-to-face with it, although we had to go to the back to the restaurants and things. And I loved it. I enjoyed going to the back. And when we got to come in the front, it really kinda took me because it wasn’t as much fun as when you going to the back door. And we always say we didn’t want to integrate, we just wanted to have equal things. Equal—just being allowed to go into the front of the restaurant. I could have stayed at my school, because I thought we had a great school and our teachers did a superior job, as well as they could. We always used that example, well not an example, we always talked about White children having the new books and we having no books, ‘cause if we did, that was where it went. We would get the books and their names would be all in ‘em, and then we would get the books, and then a realization set in that—and one of my





teachers said this to us—she said, “I want you stop saying that the White children got the new books and you get the old books.” She said, “This is true, you do get them.” She said, “But the noun in that book, the new book, is the same noun that’s in the old book. You know, the noun does not change. That does not change. Whatever is in that book, it does not change. It’s that the pages, perhaps, are newer, but you are getting the same education as they. You just need to apply it.” And after hearing that I said, “Okay, that is true, because you look in that book and it says a noun’s name of a person, place, or thing. In the old book and in the new book it’s the same thing.” So that was just basically a cop out, but we used that as a thing to say, you know, the White children got all new books and dah dah dah. So I think we were ‘bout in the eighth grade and we had a teacher there—this was at Douglas Junior High School at the time—named Ms. Katherine Taylor, and she came to a meeting. Because back then they had a Black man that was over the Black teachers for instruction for the county level and then of course you had the White superintendent. I think around about [19]62 they all had kinda come together and she asked a question, “Why is it that we always have to get the books from High Springs High School?” And the man said, “Well you can get books too, I understand.” And then she said, “Well all our books are always old books.” So he said, well, he wasn’t aware of this—this is what the superintendent said. So he said, “Well, when you leave here today I’m going to make sure you have the new books as well.” So we did get us some new books before we got there, but I think it was an English book. And that’s when they made the comparison that the same noun was there. And I don’t think





we had any racial things. I remember when I was in the twelfth grade we went to Santa Fe High School because they were trying to start an interracial committee, or something weird, because integration was coming. So they wanted to have the two schools to come together and I guess talk about things that perhaps would arise if we were to integrate. And I remember we had to go to Santa Fe. And I remember we were there and we went around the corner, we were going to the auditorium where we met. And some White kids came around the corner and they said “Oh good God, there’s a Nigger.” And so we heard that, but you know we said our things too. “There’s a Cracker.” They were trying, you know, don’t do that, we don’t want this to come, because that was our first time meeting. And we talked about stuff and things that we thought would kind of mellow out us integrating. None of us wanted to integrate. They didn’t want to integrate; we didn’t want to integrate. But if we had to integrate, we talked about things that would happen if we were to integrate. They were going to open a community college here, Santa Fe, that’s here now, and that was gonna be the first time that we would have been integrated had we gone there. So we talked about that. My senior year also, I was the homecoming chairperson. And I invited Santa Fe High School Band to be in our parade. I remember our student advisor called me at night. She said that I needed to be in the principal’s office first thing in the morning because I was about to make her lose her job. I’m saying, well, I’m not trying to make her lose her job. So that morning we got there and they said that I had called Santa Fe High School to ask them to be in the parade, and who gave me permission. I said, “Well nobody gave me permission to call the other, the





Black schools.” So I said, “That’s Santa Fe up there, I’ll call Santa Fe.” As a result, they did come, they did let them come. But the administration was still into that, I call that slave-mentality thing, where they let them lead our parade, as opposed to them taking place like everybody else going in line. But they led the parade and then the next year, they came again, that was after I had gone. And then of course by then massive integration had come into effect that January, so we got through that.

	S:	So the people that were at Mebane, where did they end up going? J:	When they integrated?

	S:	Yeah.



	J:	Some of them went to Buchholz, some went to GHS, some went to Newberry, and Santa Fe High School.

	S:	And you went to—?



	J:	I graduated from Mebane.



	S:	You graduated from Mebane. J:	Uh-huh.

	S:	And what year was that? J:	[19]66.

	S:	1966.



	J:	Yeah, that was just Class of [19]66.



	S:	Tell me some more about you and the 1960s, and Mebane, and your vision and dreams. What were you thinking about in those days? ‘Cause that was the beginning of Vietnam—





	J:	I think it was—



	S:	And there was Jimmy Hendrix. Things were changing, things were changing.



	J:	Yeah, Jimmy Hendrix came along maybe like [19]68. Because I can remember when I first heard it, a friend of mine had been to Vietnam, and we would listen to the music and it was always so brassy. And we called it dope music. And we used to, “Oh he playing that dope music.” Because that was something new. But when I was there at Mebane, I never felt that thing about the Black-White, that part didn’t faze me. Because I was confident in who I was, and I was happy with who I was and where I was. So I didn’t care about it. I wanted to go to college. I wanted to be—at that time—I said I wanted to be a math teacher. I was dreaming. Cause I was thinking about math, applied math, not the math that’s gonna—and just work and teach school and that kind of thing, that was where I wanted to be. And as I said, I was just comfortable. I was comfortable in my zone.

	S:	Has Alachua County changed a lot from back in the day?



	J:	It has changed a lot. I know it has changed tremendously, but as I said, I didn’t feel the impact of, I didn’t come that direct, because when we were able to get out and go—I think the Civil Rights Bill had been signed what, [19]64?—so I was still in school, so basically we were allowed to go to the places, we just hadn’t integrated. So I didn’t feel all of that, that somebody older than me maybe did, but I knew it was there. But to actually have it, to say, like having water scattered on me, and all this kind of stuff, I didn’t have that. We had the thing with the





name calling. That was always—‘cause that even happens today in some instances. And we went through that, but no direct—

	S:	Do you think it’s because Gainesville and, well, Alachua County, it’s kinda like a rural area. It’s not really a big city, and people are kinda mellow here, and you know, they’re not—

	J:	But I think back then, back in the early [19]60s and [19]50s, it was rural, very rural. But I think now it’s more—it’s not metropolitan, but it has come, because of the university, and because of the educational level here, I think it has changed. Well if it’s not, it’s camouflaged to some degree. But it’s not as rigid as it was in the past. I can remember—and I always said this—in High Springs we used to have this place on the streets right on the main road where we would gather throughout the evening and White boys would pass and say things to us and we would yell back at them and they would ride on by, perhaps going to Fort White, wherever they were going, I don’t know. Or if we were walking the streets at night, they would say something and we would yell back. I didn’t even think about it but they could have shot you. Nobody would have known what happened, because were up on this corner. It was a store run by a White woman. And we would stand on this corner at night just talking, right on 27, and they could have come by and just shot us down. Nobody would have known. So that’s why I said it wasn’t as bad as some may have thought it was because I know there were some things we did and didn’t fear. Had no fear. Didn’t even think that they would do that. Just since I’ve been older and I’m seeing things that’s happening. And I’m saying now, “That could have happened to us. We could have been done like





that.” So I can’t say it was really that bad, simply because those things didn’t occur to us, with me anyway. I enjoyed where I was.

	S:	I remember back in the [19]60s and all that, I think America was changing a lot.



And then the music was changing. I remember we had the mudslide. Remember all that? Peace and love and all that.

	J:	Yeah, in the [19]70s. And then they went into that marijuana mode, and that was kinda like the most soothing, even with Black people in itself, just among Blacks. Because when I first went to USF and they would tell us not to go into the West Tampa area, because that was known—It was really bad—people drank liquor and all that kind of stuff and they would do all these things. But around [19]71 when marijuana had come and had taken its—everybody was cool. It was “Right on, brother,” “Yo, brother.” So you didn’t have that fighting stuff, that we might have encountered early on so, I think that was a—.

	S:	It was a positive. J:	Yeah.

	S:	I grew up in that environment too. I remember when I was a teenager, I was in Germany, you go to downtown in those big cities and they play Motown, that’s all they played. And everybody was dancing, so that was—and Elvis Presley and then it changed into the [19]70s and then you know and the…Is there anything more that you would like to add? To talk about?

	J:	Mebane was a good school. I thoroughly enjoyed my years.



	S:	I got this printed out from the internet. Do you know this individual here? I know they have a reunion every year.





	J:	Oh yeah I know him, Charles Moore.



	S:	Yeah and actually at Mebane, what was his name, Leonidas Mebane. He was quite a scholar.

	J:	Yeah this is talking about the alumni association. We had it Thanksgiving weekend as a matter of fact. Cassandra Gasset Davis is our president now. Her dad had taught at Mebane and I understand he was the disciplinarian for the elementary school students. Just whenever you mention his name its “oooh,” like that. They love him but, that was the go to man when as children they used to be chastised and it meant they went to Mr. Gasset.

	S:	Would you say that Mebane was just like any other school or was it more strict?



	J:	No, it was a little lenient my freshmen and sophomore year. My junior year we got a new principal and he came with a new agenda. Wherein before I think if you had like a 1.8 GPA you could do sports and that kind of thing. He came with the 2.0. You had to have that in order to be in anything that was representing the school. He had zero tolerance for somebody just not doing anything. And in some instances I think you had to have a 3.0. If you were gonna be a school queen you had to have a 3.0. So he changed that regime, because he said, “You’re representing the school and you want your best to represent you.” And I guess they figured if you were academically inclined, you were the best to represent. I think it was strict my junior and senior year. My freshmen and sophomore year it was a little bit more lenient.





S:  Did you feel like because Mebane was an all-Black school that you had to work harder and that you had to—you know what I mean? In other words, was it kind of like us against them or something? Or culturally just that’s the way it was?

	J:	You know we were always told that White children were smarter than us, and so you always up against that—especially when it came to if you had a one-on-one thing with the White child. But when we were at Mebane, as far as I was concerned, it didn’t faze me. I was just doing what I could do, the best that I could do. And I didn’t feel entrapped; I didn’t felt intimidated. I just didn’t. I never been that way. And I know we were, I just never thought that I had to prove anything to anybody. Just be me. And if you accept me, you accept me and if you don’t, then that’s that. That’s how I think. I think that way right now. Even when I was in a segregated school. We always say you always gotta be better than better. It means you got to be the very best that you can be; that was instilled in us. And so we tried, but when I got to school with White children, I realized that there were some that were smart, some that weren’t smart. It was just a myth among other things. So once you get past the myth, you can see the realization of it all, so it just never bothered me like that. I didn’t have that problem

	S:	And then you ended up going to USF?



	J:	Yeah I went to USF in [19]70. Cause I was here at the university and we had student unrest they said. I don’t even know why we walked out. I guess we were unrest. But we walked out and I think we overtook the administration. This was when O’Connell was here. And we made up this song “We ain’t gon let O’Connell turn us around, keep on walking.” So they called in the police. They came with





the water. They did have the water, but I wasn’t one that got skidded. They carried them too—And I was going to the bus because they carried us on two buses. And when I got to door of the bus, I turned around. They said, “Harry, you let us know, cause somebody got to be here to get you out of jail.” “I’m gonna get you out of jail.” So they went out on there. And they never were locked up, they were just locked in the fence. There were just too many to be in a cell.

Some were playing basketball and some of them their parents came and finally somebody from this university came I think it was a man named Roy Mitchell who maybe was like a Black administrator, maybe in financial aid or something. He came and signed those that were in there, got them out. And I think the parents were contacted that this had happened, but it wasn’t a felony or nothing like that, so that was dropped. And we would meet at night at the cultural arts center—I don’t know if it’s still here or not. The Black cultural arts center?

	S:	Oh yeah across from—It use to be next to Burger King.



	J:	We would meet there at night, talking about strategies and all this stuff. And I can remember if you weren’t going to go back to the university, you could go to Florida State, FAMU, all the state schools they were saying they would just transfer you. If you wanted to come back to school they would let you come back. So I went—several of us went—to the University of South Florida, some of went to Florida State, and some came back here to the University of Florida. And that was smoothly done. The other incident that I told you about, and I guess it was a thing of unrest for us. That’s what the media called it, “student unrest.” And like I said, I can’t remember why we did it. I remember one day I came out of class, I





was over in Broward Hall, and I saw people up in front of Tigert Hall and they were talking about things and how we were being treated or whatever. I didn’t know we were being treated that bad but I’m here and I started to listen and that’s how we got involved. And then we had the students from Santa Fe, which was right down the street at the time, down at the old Gainesville High School. It’s down University Avenue, down there. And they would come up, and that’s how we got into this. And then Martin Luther King had come to St. Augustine, I think it was, and we had our own march. It was just some stuff. And I think from that little gathering we organized something called the Florida State Black Student Union Association, like how they have the student government. The first meeting was held here in Gainesville at the Holiday Inn, right over here on the corner and we had students from all over Florida that were in predominantly White institutions as well as Black institutions. We gathered and wrote our by- laws and things. I don’t know if that’s still going on, the Black Student Union. I don’t know. But from that the BSU came here and in other schools, that’s how they came about. So we were part of the revolution. If you were part of the struggle, you had to have an army jacket. You know the green ones?

	S:	Yeah I remember that.



	J:	The green ones you had to have, you remember. Yeah you had to have it with the boots and jeans. You had to have it if you were part of the struggle and in some cases you had the little Black fist or some red black and green. That meant you were part of the struggle. That happened. High school was just nothing like—





we enjoyed each other. We enjoyed going to football games, basketball games, it was just, it was just something. It really was.

		S:	That sounds like my high school experience. J:		Where are you from?

	S:	I went to school overseas, but I remember we had all kinds of people at our school. You just did your thing, so I don’t know, that’s why I’m kind of surprised that your experiences are kind of similar to mine.

	J:	Right. Mebane is up on a hill from where we were, and we were kind of away from everybody. So up on that hill it was just like another world. We were just there and our world just was around that campus, from 8 ‘til 3:15 or whatever time we got out of school. Whatever happened, we were just involved in that and you’d leave there and you’d go home and it didn’t faze me that I was passing a school, going to another school, because I was going with my people. I didn’t even think like I wanted to go to the White school so to speak. As I said earlier on, what we wanted was to be able to go to—if we wanted to go, we could go. If we wanted to go to the restaurant through the front, if we wanted to go, we could go. We didn’t like it when they said, “Everybody got to go through the front, everybody got to sit in the bunkers.” When we were in high school, we went to the movies, we would sit on the top, the balcony, and the Whites would sit on the bottom and we would throw stuff down on them, like paper and sometime ice and stuff. And then the man would come up and ask who did it. Of course nobody gonna say who did it. He would say he was going to kick us out the movie, and it was fun. It didn’t happen all the time, but it did happen. Somebody might finish





eating their popcorn and ball the bag up, because it was in bags back then and then toss it. And then somebody would holler “Stop throwing down here” like that, but that was about as rowdy as we got in the movies. And I think that’s about the only place we gathered with White children back then was at the movies. Those were the only encounters we had. There were no major fighting. Now when they integrated, when they went up to Santa Fe, I understand they did have a few—it was basically the parents. Parents would ignite the fighting because they wanted their child out of the class or something like that. And then of course Black parents would come, so that might have been maybe that first year and after then they got into it and that stopped as well.

	S:	How did you get around when you were young and growing up here?



	J:	Walking. We didn’t have no cars. I mean we had cars, but it was your parents’ car. Basically walking or you would catch rides with somebody with a car. And my senior year I would drive to events, but we always had to catch the bus, nobody drove to school. I don’t even think they allowed us to drive to school. I don’t think, cause I never drove to school. But I did drive to events, after school events. But even then we had no problems with White people.

	S:	Did you have any clubs or anything?



	J:	Yeah. We had the drama club I think, Spanish club, science club, math club, honor society, student council, student government, Future Farmers of America, New Homemakers of America, Spanish club. Of course I was not a member, but those persons who were taking Spanish had the Spanish club. Yearbook staff, that kind of thing. We had all those—and on Wednesday was club day, wherein





you could if you were a part of a club you would go to those clubs that day, but if you weren’t then you could go to a class that maybe you might have been having trouble with and a teacher could help you with that during that time. But who wanted to go to class, so you wanted to be in a club to go to the activity day. And we had what we called student government day; this was when the students would take over as the teacher and you had to write a letter stating what you wanted to do and why you wanted to do it. And then I guess somebody would choose if you could do it. They would make that decision. They would let you know. So that was a lot of fun and then we go to drink tea that day like the teachers instead of milk. So everybody was pushing for that, just to say I got a glass of tea. That’s when you went to the cafeteria, when you went to lunch.

	S:	That’s what I was going to ask you, about food. Did they serve food in the school?

	J:	Mm-hm.



	S:	You had a lunch room and all that?



	J:	Yeah we had a lunch room, had a cafeteria



	S:	What kind of food did they serve you? Was it good?



	J;	Oh it was delicious. And we often times talk about it. Like the days when we had—they would make the homemade cinnamon rolls, the pork steaks. We even liked the way they made the Wheaties and biscuits and beans and stuff like that.

	S:		Was that food that everybody was used to eating? Was it like a menu that the state set for you?

	J:	I think the county may have set the menus.





	S:	What about the food? Did it come from the local area people?



	J:	Now that I don’t know. I don’t know because it came in a truck. They would bring the food there on a truck and I don’t know if it came from the—I guess some of these produce companies would bring it, but I can remember the truck coming.

	S:	I thought maybe some of your friends, their parents had farms and all that, maybe they would use the vegetables—

	J:	No, not at Mebane, but I know at some of rural schools that were in Columbia County and some other areas, they did use foods like—if somebody was a big farmer they did buy some goods from him. I can’t remember anybody from when I was in high school because we always saw the truck. Another thing that we used to do too in middle school, junior high school, when I was in the eighth grade, we would go around to each class and would pick up the money and the lunch count for every classroom, first grade through eighth grade, because the school was like that. And then we had to go in and count all the children that were going to get free lunches, how many was going to get paid lunches, and just do all that paperwork and then turn it into the office. They’d check it and then report to the lunchroom to report how many meals they needed to make. And we did that in the eighth grade, because each eighth grade class would do that.

Then when I went to Mebane to High School, if I were in your class you would say, “Well Herb you could check this for me.” And we would see who all was eating lunch. They would have to pay by the week. Then they would have a ticket or something, and then we’d right their names down or either their number, so we made that report. We would have to give that to them—that was usually children





who had done that before that they would let do that. And we didn’t deal with the money; we just dealt with the numbers at high school. Those kind of things were done to us. Discipline when you got in trouble, you had to go to the maids and the janitors to do a little work. If they didn’t want to beat you or whatever, they would take you to the—and I remember when I was in high school I had to go to the janitor once, one time I can remember, maybe twice. I went three times. The first time I went I was in the tenth grade, and I had laughed at one of my classmates who had gotten locked out the door. And the maid said to me, “Boy why you laughing at that girl.” She said, “Don’t you know laughers catchers.” And I laughed at her, because she said “Laughers were catchers.” I had never heard of laughers was catchers. So I went around and I said, “You heard what that lady said? She said laughers is catchers.” And it ended up so we all laughed at her. And I went on back to my room and there I was locked out the door. So where I had to go? To the principal. And of course he sent me to the janitor. And so she said to me when she saw me, “What I told you?” And that was the day I stopped laughing at people. Because she said I was laughing, but from the way she said it—cause I didn’t think that was going to be true—and she was a devout Christian woman, this lady was. She always talked about church, and when she said that we laughed and I got sent to the janitor too. And had to rake. And they would always put you where children could see you. I was between the library and the cafeteria and the gym, so you know, everybody goes to the gym, everybody go to lunch. And they gave me that rake so I would rake during the time when everybody was going by and when that bell ringed, I’d throw that rake





down and stand up there like I was just lollygagging until time to go to next class. So they wouldn’t see that you were working, because that was a terrible thing to have to go have to go to the janitor. Nobody wanted to go. That would be your punishment as opposed to sending you home, because if you were home, your parents were going to kill you, so you take that and work. Very rare did we get a popping, a spanking, in high school. They just have you do stuff like that.

The next time I went, it was the same thing, I was eating in class. The teacher asked me to go to the office for eating. I went there and again I had to go to the janitor and in this case---then we had a program called PL89-10, this was a program that designed for—I don’t want to say poor children because all of us were poor, but the less fortunate. These kids could work, go to school half day, and they could work. I guess they got paid, I don’t know. [Cell phone ringtone goes off] The principal told me to fill in these boxes and take these things around to the coatroom, that’s what they called it, so I said, “Okay.” So I packed all those things up and just as I finished, these girls who go to work at lunch time, they came through. So I asked them where they were going. They said they were going over there. I said, “Well could you drop these boxes over there for me to the coatroom?” They said, “Oh yeah.” So I gave them three boxes full of letters and I gave them the boxes to take over there for me because I had to go over the sidewalk and everybody would see you carry these boxes and know you were working. See but they worked, because they were part of the program, so they didn’t think that of them. They knew they left to go to work. So the principal saw me and he called me back to the office again. He said, “Herb, I don’t know why





you won’t do what I asked you.” I said, “I did what you asked me to do.” I stacked them and put them in the box, but they just happened to be going that way so I sent it by them. So he started chuckling and said, “Okay, go back to class.” Next time I had to go—the math teacher had told us to wrap our books. I don’t know if you know, but you had to put a covering over your book. It was a new book, and so you had to get a book cover. And I didn’t have one. None of us had our books. He sent the whole class, I think maybe three people were in the room, and he sent us to the septic area, where the cesspool and all the stuff was. And that was the pits when you go there. You didn’t want to go there. And we went there and the time we went there was the time that it would flush and come up I guess. And the janitor knew this, but he took us in there. And he said—so we stayed there about ten minutes. He said, “Alright, let’s go.” In the time we walked out it came up—and it just went all over. So had we had been in there we’d have gotten— after that I said, “I ain’t going back there no more. Because everybody always said, “You don’t want to go to the cesspool.” That’s what we called it—you don’t want to go in there. So that was the ultimate, you went there and you knew you was on shaky ground, so I said “I ain’t going back no more.” So I never had to rake anymore. But that’s basically what they did with us, as far as discipline. Not discipline, I guess punishment, because they always taught discipline, but punishment would be you would have to go to the janitor or to the maids and work and your friends could see you and they would make fun of you and you didn’t want to have that to happen to you. And that was one thing. And I can remember my English teacher said to use one day and she used the term





automation and she said you could sit up here and do nothing and act this way. She said, “But automation is coming up in here and when automation gets here, some of you going to be in big trouble.” She said, “Some of you ain’t even going to have no jobs.” She said, “I probably won’t have a job because they’ll have a computer”—no she said a robot—“a robot would be teaching English.” Or whatever and you’ll have all these things. And I was thinking, “Where is she coming from?” And when we graduated from high school our Salutatorian gave her address and she talked about that day, when we’re going have, and she said robots and automation is going to come and these things are going to be and dadadadada. And so I said, “Hmm, she had a vision that far back but it just wasn’t automation, it was technology.” But we first started having automation.

Started having automatic coffee makers and automatic—so automation was a form of that transformation. But my English teacher had told us that it was going to come and if you weren’t ready, you were going to be lost, because automation was take going to take a whole lot of jobs from a lot of people. If you’re dumb, you won’t able to get a job because of automation. And that was back in the [19]60s, and she gave us that revelation that this was going to happen. So stuff like that was there. We did a lot of public speaking. They called them oratorical contests. And they would be done for the district, the whole district. And they would give everybody whatever they wanted to—they would say, for instance, it’s going to be—“Invictus” was the thing everybody had to learn. And the “Star Spangled Banner,” everybody had to learn. Whatever it was, you had to learn to recite it and you would come together and you win at you school first and then





you’d go to the county, and from the county to the district, and from district to region, from the region to the state. Everybody saying the same thing, and that was good. That was—

	S:	Did you do well in them?



	J:	Well I made it---I did place at my school but I wasn’t the one to go, but that wasn’t my thing. I could talk, but I wanted to sing. [Cell phone ringing] And when we did—I remember when I was in the third grade and these children had gathered and they were looking so pretty. The girls were pretty, had on pretty dresses, and the boys had on shirt and ties. Ad I was wondering where these kids were going. And so my third grade teacher said to me, “Next year when you’re in the fourth grade, you can go to this.” It was called the intermediate music course or something like that. You sang, you did the same way like you did with the oratorical thing. So I couldn’t wait to get to the fourth grade, so I could go like those kids that I saw all dressed up. So when I got into the fourth grade, I had really forgotten all about it. And I noticed they never called anybody to go to no practice so I assumed maybe they ain’t doing it no more. My fourth grade teacher told the music teacher that I could sing so they started me to singing, my music teacher.

	S:	Was that true?



	J:	Yes, and she taught me this song, but I still wanted all these other people to go. I wanted to be a part of that group—I remember the year that I went I was the only one that went and so I had never been to a building as big as Mebane’s auditorium, that’s where the districts was, in Mebane’s auditorium. When I got





there and they opened this curtain and I saw all them people, I froze. I couldn’t sing nothing and the lady was playing and she said, “Sing.” She said, “Sing boy.” I could not open my mouth. So they closed the curtain and there was a guy who was in high school from High Springs at the time, and he said to me, he came over to where I was, he said, “You from High Springs, you got to show these people down here in Alachua that you can sing.” He said, “You got to sing, I been talking about you can sing and you come up here and you coming up here and won’t sing.” And the teacher said, “Herbert, you see that wall back there. She said, “See the clock?” There was a clock in the auditorium. She said, “I want you to look right at that clock, don’t look at nobody else but that clock.” She said, “Focus your eyes on that clock. Don’t look at these people and sing.” So when they open the curtain again and I found the clock and I looked at the clock and I sang. And of course I did win and I went to the state thing, and I’ve been singing ever since. I have won some state things in my high school and won some districts, but that started me to singing. That was some things that they did for us we would have operettas, we would have plays each class, each area maybe: elementary department, intermediate department and then the junior high department, each year you had a play. There also instilled in us public speaking and we would have assembly every Monday and each class would have to do something on the assembly. And everybody had to participate. You did the Pledge of Allegiance, you prayed, you did something. And that was to give us the opportunity to speak publically and to interact like that. Those were things that did for us in our schools because otherwise we didn’t get a lot of that. Only in





church, they had you doing it in your churches and entry school, but that was some things they did. You had sports in elementary, middle school, as well as high school.

S:   Did you play sports?



	J:	I played basketball, believe it or not. Yeah, I just played until I think I was in ninth grade, then I broke my finger and then that wasn’t for me no more. So then I started to sing again. I started singing again in tenth grade and sang throughout. Matter of fact, I won a musical scholarship to Bethune-Cookman University. Then I didn’t realize it was my first time being away from home and I was really kind of homesick, so I stayed for the summer term and I could have gone back but I just wasn’t ready. And then I ended up going to Santa Fe. Then from Santa Fe to UF and from UF to the University of South Florida.

	S:	And what career did you—



	J:	Early childhood education. And you know why I got in there? Because I really didn’t want to be a teacher when I got grown. I said “Nah, I don’t want to be no teacher. I’m going to be a social worker.” And I was at UF at the time and had never taken Spanish, but you had to have a foreign language in order to be in social work, that was a prerequisite. I was in Spanish and I didn’t even know how to say “uno”, you know Spanish. And these kids that had Spanish in school and something, and I was sitting next to this girl who said, “Herb why don’t you drop it?” I said, “Drop it?” She said, “Yeah, it’s not too late to add and drop, drop and add or whatever.” And I said, “Well how do I drop it?” So she told me how to drop it and I went and I dropped it, dropped Spanish and finished up that semester. So





next semester that was when we walked out. And I went to USF and I was going to do social science then, anything to keep from being this teacher and that wasn’t working. Back then Black student had to take what you call—it was some kind of test we had to do, proficiency test, I think that’s what it called. You could either take it like how you and I are doing it now or they might give you something you have to write it. It just depends on how they wanted to do the test. Mine was a verbal test and so we were talking, the lady and I were talking. And I can remember she gave me the word ‘round’ and I said ‘round’ and she said ‘sound’ and I said ‘sound’ and until we finished that’s how we went. So she said, “You did an excellent job with the exception of”, she said I had a lazy r. And my pronunciation of ‘sound’ and ‘round’ was not on the dollar. I said, “You said ‘round.’ I said ‘round.’” She said, “No, I didn’t say ‘round. I said round.”’ I said, “Well that’s your southern drawl. That’s why you said ‘round’ but I said ‘round’.” And she said ‘sound’ and I said ‘sound’ and she said that I was pronouncing the words wrong because it should have been ‘sound’, ‘round’ and so she said I had a Boston accent, but I did pass the test. There were some children that didn’t because of whatever, I don’t know, because mine, was like I said, a verbal thing. We talked and that was what she was telling me and she said that with the exception of those two words everything was fine. And I said “rr” in something we were doing and she said it should have been ‘r’ and so that was whatever because we use to say ‘rr’ I don’t know. But Black folks used to call the letter ‘r’, ‘rr’. That was the thing that we had to do while at USF. See, you didn’t have to do that.





	S:	No I never had to do that. Well in second grade, actually my mother is French, so I had to go to speech class because I didn’t know how to pronounce words either, but they didn’t do that.

	J:		Yeah all the Black students who came. The Blacks who we went to USF, we were handpicked, we didn’t just walk up in there. That was back when the early— we were the second group of Blacks that came. The first group was fifty that came, and then we came, there might have been one hundred of us, one hundred and something of us. We were the next group that came of Black students. One of my social foundation teachers told us we were handpicked. He said, “You’re here because you were handpicked.”

	S:	It made you feel good then?



	J:	Kind of, but he messed it up, Dr. Carol, that was his name—well I guess he didn’t mess it up, what happened, we took it wrong. What he did he was showing us all about I guess the history of social foundation, because we were doing the social foundation, and when he did the African American children, he showed the African people. But it was more the barbaric, you know the wild kind, primitive.

And so we took offence to that because when he did the White children and the other children and other people, but that was their culture and coming from where they came from, and he did us, because I guess we came from Africa and that was—so we took offence to that. It was big discussion, and that’s when he said we should be happy to be there because we were hand chosen to come, so we should be proud. So to speak. That was once little incident of racism I guess we had, but he did apologize to us and he was saying that the reason why he did





it was because, that basically it was our culture was from Africa. And of course our argument was that, “We ain’t never lived in Africa. We lived in America.” But we were advocating Afro—at the time it was Afro-American—and we were wanted our Mother Land. So he was saying, “What do you people want? What you want? You’re saying this so I went there.” That was the kind of struggle we had with that, but other than that it was a great experience.

	S:	That sounds very good. Are you retired now?



	J:	Well semi. I’m just not going to work the rest of this year. Perhaps I’ll go back.



Because what happened, I had a heart attack last year in November, Thanksgiving. And I had open heart surgery, triple bypass, December first. So I was out all of this year until about April. I went back and I wasn’t full time. I was running the daycare center for the Episcopal church over off of Fourth Avenue, and our children were coming from Fifth Avenue and Glenn Springs, I think that’s the name of the place, but they closed those places down. They tore down Fifth Avenue. So our parents had to move in other areas. They stayed until school ended and because so many of them didn’t have cars, they just didn’t have transportation to get back over to where we were and we understood that. It was just a struggle. We were trying the transport them and it was not for me. It was getting to me so I said, “I can’t do it. Now if y’all get somebody else in here to come and do this, yes come on. Herb just can’t.” And so as a result of that we just decided to close. Now we’re in the process of getting it ready so we can rent it to a group who wants to put an adult daycare center there. And this is with people, men and women, with I guess some special needs. Because I’ve seen





the people who come with them and you can tell that they come from group homes. Hopefully by December the 1st we’ll be ready for that change too, so that’s where we are. I did this kind of thing. In Tampa when I finished school I worked for Hillsborough Community College and they did a history of Black Hillsborough County. And I interviewed the people, and we recorded it and somebody else typed it up and it was—

	S:	Yeah, that’s they’re gonna do here. Later on in life, young people, they’ll say, “What were people doing then? How did they dress? What did they eat? Where do they go? What do they think?”

	J:	Oh the dress was off the chain. When I was in school, and we always talk about this, because we talk about the children now with the pants sagging or the girls with the high shorts or whatever. Now when we were in high school the thing was no socks. Boys would dress and be decked out with no socks.

	S:	I remember that. That came over to my school too. They would were those loafers with no socks, yeah I remember that.

	J:		No socks. And the teachers could not stand it. And then in the early [19]70s it was the hot pants and that’s what these young girls are wearing now, they call them Daisy Dukes or something. I can remember there were, we called them hip huggers, remember those pants we use to wear hip huggers, they were low. And that’s basically what these boys—they wear them low and they’re showing their underwear. But we all had some little errors that we did some things like that.

	And I think it’s just a passing thing. We just get caught up on— S:	Bell bottoms.





J:  Yeah, with the wedge heel shoes. [Laughter]. Yeah we did that, we sure did. And walked all over that campus. And I couldn’t walk from here to that door with them on now.

	S:	What was your hair like in those days? J:	My hair?

		S:	Yeah did you have— J:		A fro?

	S:	Did you have a big one?



	J:	A big ol’ ‘fro. A big fro. I even braided it up like they have these dreads now, which were braided up ‘til the weekend and you’ll puff it out and stuff like that. Those kind of things. The fabric was polyester knit for the pants and we had the little waist shirts with the little elastic in the waist.

	S:	Yeah I remember those.



	J:	Stuff like that. And guys wore their hair braided just like these girls wear these dreads and stuff. Now White boys, they wore no socks too, but they were more tapered, they wore the—

	S:	I remember, for a while they use to wear pants that would stick to their legs. I didn’t like those, stove pipes or whatever. I didn’t like those.

	J:	My experience at Mebane was truly awesome. I had no regrets. I have no regrets. As a matter of fact, I enjoyed my high school. I enjoyed growing up here. I remember I used to work when I was in maybe the 9th or 10th grade, and I worked at this restaurant in High Springs every Saturday from 4 o’clock to 8. And that might have been eight dollars at the time.





	S:	At that time that was a lot of money.



	J:	Of course. The clothing store would allow you to have an account there if they knew you were working and you could put stuff on layaway and pay for it as you go. And then when we got in college, Silverman’s, I don’t know if you remember Silverman’s. How long you been here?

	S:	No I don’t remember.



	J:	Silverman’s and Young American, they were downtown. They would let you have an account too. You could go in and buy your stuff and pay them on time.

	S:	I did the same thing. When I got the money together I bought a sports jacket. J:	Yup that’s right.

	S:	I was so proud of that thing. I think it last me until I was about forty-five. J:	That’s right.

	S:	I never wanted to throw it away. I worked so hard; it was good money. It was good money I spent on that thing.

	J:	I bought me a trench coat. That was the first the trench coat I had. Thirty-two dollars it cost, and it took me forever I thought to get the thirty-two dollars. That was a lot money. I wore it forever. And then it got dirty and I couldn’t, something happened, so I tried to dye it black. It came out the ugliest gray and that was it. I did wear it under certain circumstances when I didn’t have nothing else to wear. When I had to put it on, I would put it on. But yeah I messed up the jacket. But Mebane is a great place, was a great place, and I don’t know what that is, that’s just the agreement of the organization or something?





	S:	Yeah, it was hard to find on the website because when I was looking for it, it had changed its name. It’s a middle school now, so the original Mebane, I couldn’t find the original. But then I found that they’ve got the alumni association. And it’s gone through three or four different changes.

	J:	There is a history that’s floating. We have at Mebane something called the Mebane Museum or Mebane Room, and it has picture of events that we went through, pictures of the graduating classes from Mebane, Mr. Mebane’s desk and chair, his picture is in there. Three men who were kill in the war, while serving in the war, who were alumni from that school. I think one is from Douglas and one is from ACT.

	S:	Alachua County Training Center.



	J:	Those where the other high schools that were there in this county that were for Black people. It’s a unique—I don’t know if you’d be available Thanksgiving weekend, we’re having a parade that Saturday.

	S:	In High Springs?



	J:	Alachua.



	S:	Alachua.



	J:		At 12 o’clock and then we’re going to be honoring our veterans and fallen heroes, those people who died, in the auditorium around 1:30. And then there’s a play at five with the women’s [inaudible 1:05:36], I think that’s what it’s called.

And these were—Bonnie Burgess is in it, as a matter of fact. Stanley Richardson, these were former people and now they’ve formed a theater in Alachua. And they perform, so they are going to do a play and then after that evening there’s a





reception also for the class of [19]60, [19]65, and [19]70. [19]60 are celebrating their 50th reunion. [19]65, 45 years, and [19]70 40 years. And then were going to have a round up, all the classes will come, wear their school colors and have a five minute presentation of whatever they want to do. And the class with the most classmates present becomes the roundup champion. So now if they win this time, they can’t win another time, because you’re going to always have classes that were larger than other classes. So that class can’t keep winning. So we just said, “If win the first year, you’ve already won so you’re going to give somebody else a chance to win.” So that’s what we do. And we also have a Miss Alumni and Miss Hornet and Ms. Green and Gold. Those were the school colors and mascot. And that is done through raising money. And that helps fund our scholarships. For the last two years we’ve added it for little girls, like descendants of those people, of us. And you might have a granddaughter or a great-grand daughter of somebody who went there. And again those funds go to our scholarship fund. Now we have given out over sixty thousand dollars in scholarships. We started giving scholarships, we were giving one hundred and fifty dollars. And last year we gave out seven or eight one thousand dollar scholarships.

	S:	Yeah, that’s really great. Well, I want to thank you very much. J:	You’re welcome. I’m glad I came.

	S:	For talking, and I learned a lot and it’s been fun. Let me turn this thing off. [End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Anupa Kotipoyina, January 25, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019