AAHP 790; Moultry; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 790 James Moultry 2-28-2020 Interviewed by Sebastiano Cocco on February 28, 2020

64 minutes | 27 pages



Abstract: In this interview, African American Pensacola elder James Moultry recalls his childhood, education, and his experiences before and after being drafted into the service during the Vietnam War. He recalls attending the Booker T. Washington School in Pensacola for both junior and senior high school. Moultry remembers the obstacles to education posed by segregation and recalls how it impacted his prospects for the future. Before joining the service, Moultry remembers working as a barber for serval years after attending a barber’s school in Connecticut. Moultry spent his tour of duty in an artillery unit in North Carolina, where he made the rank of E-5 within eighteen months. Moultry declined to stay in the service, however, after realizing that he would be sent to Vietnam if he remained. Moultry recalls his life after service, in which he married his wife and became employed with the United Postal Service. Moultry lost his job with the postal service when he moved from Connecticut to Pensacola, Florida, and opted to join the police force, where he served for nearly three decades. Moultry then recalls his efforts at starting one of the few Black chapters of the American Legion in Pensacola, which he remained active in to the date of this interview. Moultry concludes with his hopes for the future of American Legion and the memorialization of Black military history in Pensacola.





Keywords: [Pensacola, Florida, Black community, North Carolina, barber, veteran, segregation, education, Vietnam War, military, police officer]



AAHP 790

Interviewee: James Moultry Interviewer: Sebastiano Cocco Date: February 28, 2020

	C:	This is Sebastiano Cocco, it’s February 28th, 2020, I’m here in Pensacola, Florida, the Auxiliary unit 193 of the American Legion. I’m here with the Samuel Proctor History Program and I’m here with--

	M:	James Moultry.



	C:	Nice to meet you, sir. It’s a pleasure to be able to interview you today. Thank you for joining us. I guess, just to start, when and where were you born?

	M:	I was born in Sawders, Alabama, in the year of 7/4/1942. Sawders was in the neighborhood of Selma, Alabama.

	C:	Okay, and did you grow up in Alabama?



	M:	I left Alabama when I was five years old and moved to Pensacola. I began school in Pensacola at the age of six, of course.

	C:	So that was elementary school? M:	Elementary school yes?

	C:	Was the school in the neighborhood?



	M:	The school was a neighborhood school, yes. C:	So were you able to walk to school?

	M:	I walked to school.



	C:	That’s rare nowadays.



	M:	During those days, of course, you had one school for each grade. Like, one, two, three; four, five, six; seven, eight, nine; ten, eleven, twelve. So I went to four different schools during my school days. One of the schools that I went to, which was a school called J. Lee Pickens School, for four, five and sixth grade, and





that’s where I first began my career as a Vietnam, in American Legions, that’s where we had our meetings during that time.

	C:	At school?



	M:	At a school, yes. That school, of course, is no longer—It’s been torn down. I went to that school for four, five, and sixth grade. I went back later as a beginning member of the American Legion.

	C:	And what followed after the sixth grade?



	M:	Well, of course, the next grade was Booker T. Washington Junior High School. I went there for three years.

	C:	That’s seventh, eighth, and ninth?



	M:	Yes. And then form there, Booker T. Washington Senior High School, which is still in existence.

	C:	Did they keep the same name or did they change it?



	M:	They kept the same name because at one time Booker T. Washington Junior and Senior High was combined. From seventh through twelfth grade. And after they built the new high school, which was in 1958, they moved the senior—ten eleventh, twelfth—to the new building and just kept those there at the junior high school. So it was Booker T. Washington Junior High School, Booker T. Washington Senior High School. And as of now, as I say, Booker T. Washington High School is still in existence at this time.

	C:	And so even the schools you were able to just walk to them from your neighborhood?





	M:	Yes, all of them was walking. You had to live out in the country to get busses at that time. And you talking about one mile, two miles, whatever it might be.

	C:	Yeah, you can run there.



	M:	Yes. So it wasn’t no big thing because that’s what you had to do. Now, I admit that there was a school right in my neighborhood, especially high school. But at that time, there wasn’t no integration. So I had to transfer to my end and get on down the road to the other school.

	C:	So this was a Black high school when you went there? There was segregated schools, they weren’t integrated yet?

	M:	When I went to school, it was segregated, yes. C:	All the way up through high school?

	M:	All the way through high school, yes.



	C:	Mmhm, and so you said that you began your service in [19]64, were you thinking about it already in high school? Were there recruiters coming through?

	M:	No, I had no thought about service in high school. My thing was to do something.



After I got out I didn’t know what I was gonna do, so when I got out I left home and went to Connecticut. And while I was in Connecticut, my uncle was a jack- made barber, he wasn’t licensed. And he encouraged me to go to barber’s school. My original intent was to work a period of time and start at junior college, which we had here at the time. But when he convinced me to go to barber’s school, that’s what I did. I worked a year, which was the year [19]62, I graduated in [19[61. And I went to Connecticut, and I stayed a year and worked and added up a few dollars. Then I came back to Florida—Jacksonville—and went to





barber’s school. And then I went there for a year. And after barber’s school, I came back here and started barbering. This was in 1962. And from [19]62 to [19]64, I was doing internship barbering. And at that time, I got a notice that I was drafted. This was in [19]64. And by the way, in the period of 1963, they asked, “Where were you when John Kennedy got killed?” I was sitting in the barber chair watching TV, watching the news when that came on television. I know where I was when John Kennedy got killed in 1963.

	C:	And you got drafted— M:	In 1964, yeah.

	C:	What was the process like? Was this the lottery type where you had a number?



	M:	Well, during that time of course once you finish high school and become eighteen, it was mandatory that you go down to the draft board and register. And from that period on, your name came up and you had to go unless something at the time where you went down there—which was Montgomery at the time, Alabama—to take that test. If something was wrong physically or something like that—and at the time also, they was not accepting anybody that was the only one male in the family. If you was the only male in the family, you didn’t have to go.

	C:	That’s interesting, because I’ve heard other exemptions like people who go to college so they didn’t get drafted—

	M:	Well, that’s not so true. I had a cousin, and he was both of them. He was in college plus he was the only person male in the family, and he got drafted.

	C:	And what about marriage?





	M:	Now that was another situation. They didn’t draft you if you were married because they didn’t want to take on that extra liability. So if you were married and had children and all—I don’t know, just being married wasn’t an exemption, but married with family was an exemption.

	C:	And so, when you received this draft notice, what went through your head? You knew you had to go, but did you know where you had to go or—?

	M:	At the time, I didn’t. They had, “You shall report—” At the time we had a draft station here, around the federal courthouse. And you report down there, and from there you went to Montgomery, Alabama. That’s what most of us did, that was the main entrance: Montgomery, Alabama.

	C:	Had you already come back from Connecticut to Florida at that point?



	M:	Yes, yes, yes. I had came back and started doing my martin internship offering. I tried to use that as an exemption, because you have to— I had eighteen months apprenticeship, and he came before my apprenticeship was over. And I tried to use that as a delay, but they wouldn’t accept it. When we call, you must come.

	C:	So you couldn’t even finish the apprenticeship? M:	No. I had to do that later on in life.

	C:	And so was there a bus to Montgomery, Alabama from Pensacola?



	M:	There was a bus to Montgomery, yes, from Pensacola. And you went up there, you took the test, and if you passed at that time you went further. You didn’t come back home. At that time they assigned you to your duty and took you to basic training.

	C:	Mmhm.





	M:	Which I was assigned to Columbia, South Carolina—Fort Jackson. After basic training I was flown to Fort Bragg, North Carolina. And actually that’s where I did my tour of duty, at Fort Bragg, North Carolina.

	C:	How long was the basic training before Jackson? How many weeks was it?



	M:	Eight weeks, basic training. And we’d leave basic training, and we’d go what you called the “second phase” of training for eight weeks. And then after that, you’d be assigned to a unit, wherever it might be. So I just happened to get—after getting sent to Fort Bragg I got assigned to a unit at Fort Bragg. Like I say, that’s where I spent my tour of duty, North Carolina.

	C:	So which unit were you assigned to?



	M:	I was assigned to an artillery unit. Matter of fact, artillery unit is a unit which was next door to 82nd Airborne. And at that time—I don’t know if it’s changed yet or not—82nd Airborne unit had a regular unit, they called them “legs.” And normally you didn’t get along, airborne and artillery. But it just so happened our unit was next-door. And we didn’t have much problem with the eighty-second at that time. So I don’t know how it is now—

	C:	Those are both Army units, correct?



	M:	Yeah. You got to jump, you know, and if you didn’t jump, they didn’t consider you part of the program. [Laughter] That’s just like the SEALS and them special units, during that time, those units, they considered you a minority. Of course, if you were assigned to the 82nd or the SEALS, Green Berets—In the meantime, our unit was next-door, across the street. But we didn’t have that much controversy at that time. And, of course, upon my completion date, which was two years, I





was questioning whether I was gonna stay in or not. So I took a ninety-day extension to get my head together, because I had made E-5 within less than eighteen months. And that wasn’t—

	C:	That’s not common.



	M:	That’s uncommon. And if I had’ve stayed in, I was promised that I would make E- 6 if I re-enlisted. I took a ninety-day extension at that time to clarify. And at the end of that ninety days, I had considered it. I think you need to go down and go home. And so that’s what I did, I got out at that time.

	C:	So from Fort Bragg I assume they deployed you somewhere or? M:	No, like I said, I stayed in Fort Bragg for my whole tour of duty. C:	You stayed in the country the entire time?

	M:	Mmhm. Of course, that began in the Vietnam era, also. And, critically speaking, what changed my mind about stayed in—We had a group of people went over there, got assigned over there, at the beginning of the Vietnam War. The reason I didn’t get assigned was because I had less than a year to go and they wouldn’t assign you if you had less than a year. And there was a number of them out of my unit went over there and wasn’t there a month, two months or whatever it might be, and they was coming back in body bags. And so that’s what helped make my mind up and say, “Alright, if you sign up you know you’re going to be going directly to Vietnam.” So I decided it was time for me to go. And I left at that time.

	C:	And so you were in Fort Bragg, North Carolina and you got out. Did you go back to Pensacola?





	M:	No, when I got out I went to a place called Norwalk, Connecticut. C:	Back to Connecticut.

	M:	Yeah, I went back to Connecticut. But actually, I went back to Connecticut only to stay for a short period of time. And when I got there I had a nagging RT, wanted to know why I needed to go back to Pensacola. I said, “Well, I need to go back there because I didn’t finish up my barbering, I want to go back there and finish that up, the apprenticeship, you know, and get that—But he convinced me that you can get around here anywhere—up there at that time, you could get a job—

	C:	Anywhere.



	M:	Because I was in a city where a lot of manufacturing and all that. So I decided I’d go out and get a job. Looked for a job, and the first day, I got a job. After that, “Okay, I guess I’ll stay on here.” And that’s where I stayed for a period of four years. In the meantime, I got married in that four years. I decided that that wasn’t where I wanted to stay for life. My wife and I—she was from Pensacola, too, but she had moved to California. And we decided that we were gonna get married, and we got married in the year [19]67 and we stayed in Connecticut for three years, and we both decided we wanted to come back here to Pensacola. And we both had good jobs at the time. I worked for UPS [United Parcel Services] and she was working at a bank. But we just thought Pensacola was the place for us to start raising a family, because of the—In Connecticut at that time, you made money, but you spent money. It was a high cost of living around there, rent and all that. So, we moved back to Pensacola, and she got a job at a bank, and I was somewhat assured that I was gonna get my job back with UPS. But it didn’t





happen. So, eventually I gone and went to the city police department. And there, I spent twenty-seven years.

	C:	Wow.



	M:	Twenty-seven years at the police department. And right now I retired for twenty- two years. So—

	C:	So you were with the police department from the early [19]70s or [19]70? M:	No, I started there in [19]72.

	C:	[19]72, okay. You said twenty-seven years? M:	Mmhm.

	C:	That’s until [19]99? Wow, that’s a long time. What prompted you to join the police department?

	M:	My uncle was a police in Connecticut and he tried to solicit me while I was there. And I didn’t think it was a good idea, because when you work there, you get put on the night shift until you work your way up. And it’s cold, it’s snowing, and that wasn’t something I wanted to engage in for no period of time, so I didn’t attempt to get on there. But when I moved back here, that changed my mind. I was told that I would probably get my job back at UPS, which it wasn’t something like a transfer but in checking with administration here, they assured me that, “We don’t see no reason why you can’t get your job back if you move because of your expense.” But when I got back here and went and applied, things didn’t work out as though what I thought it was gonna work out. So, I eventually gave up on it.

And so that’s how I started with the police department. And I never regretted it. I had a good career as a police officer, and I haven’t looked back form that day on.





	C:	I guess the night shift here is not quite as cold?



	M:	[Laughter] Well, it’s not a permanent night shift here. You know, I worked night shifts but not permanent. And there, once you get started, you were permanent night shift until you worked yourself up to get to an evening shift or a day shift. But your seniority didn’t put you in order, so that meant—I said, I can‘t be working out there in all this snow and all that for that period of time. So I didn’t even bother. But when I got back here, after I didn’t get the job back with UPS, then I decided I’d try it. It worked out.

	C:	How long was it until you got a day shift over here?



	M:	Oh, the day shift was—We rotated. Here, we rotated. There wasn’t no such thing as a rookie getting—

	C:	Different system.



	M:	Everybody goes around and around, that was the good part about it.



	C:	I hear a lot of times and I’ve actually met some folks in Gainesville—you know, that’s where we just came from, the University—where they were in the military and they were veterans and then once they came here they said that they could adapt to it just because it’s a different structure, but it’s got similarities to it, between the police department and the military. Would you say that helped?

	M:	Did you say you were from Gainesville?



	C:	Well, I’m not from but we’re with the university, we’re students. M:	Okay, my son went to Gainesville, that’s why—

	C:	Really?



	M:	Mmhm. Graduated from—





	C:	University of Florida? M:	Mmhm.

	C:	Oh, wow. That’s amazing.



	M:	He’s now a police officer in Memphis, Tennessee. And in a few more years, he’ll be retiring.

	C:	That’s pretty cool. So what was it like being a veteran in Pensacola after being a police officer at the same time? Was there--?

	M:	Well now, being just a veteran for me because I didn’t put in the twenty years retirement’s just a—but now the guys that put in twenty years and retired from the service, oh, it’s good for them because they get all types of benefits. But for me, it wouldn’t—It hasn’t made me no different as far as being a veteran. Like I say, once in a while somebody in here will say, “Okay, are you a veteran?” Especially during—What day it is that they have around here where they honor all veterans? Not retired, just out of the service, they just honor all veterans.

	C:	Veteran’s Day?



	M:	No, not Veteran’s Day.



	C:	In June, right? Is it May or June?



	M:	No, Veteran’s Day, yeah, when all the—out dancing and all that and you get a meal, if you’re a veteran you can get a meal.

	C:	Oh, like discounts? M:	Yeah, well, no—

	C:	You get the whole meal?





	M:	You get the whole—Applebee’s and Golden Corral and several other places around here, you just got to say, “I’m a veteran.” And they say, “We feed on veterans during that day.” Believe me, they give away a lot of food because this is a Navy town.

	C:	It seems to be a different atmosphere here because they have multiple bases and—

	M:	Well, at one time we had a ship here. And the—that was in the [19]90s—we had a ship here stationed and then the ship left here, and they lost a lot of members. All that left here in the early 2000s, and that left the city without a big Navy—Like I say, Navy yard is down there. Had a ship with like a couple thousand sailors onboard. They drove out and came back and they cut all that out and cut the Navy yard down, a lot of people that were working at the Naval Air Station had to move away and got transferred to other different places. A lot of them that had their time in just went on and retired. This was a Navy town at one time, and as I say, up until the late [19]90s, when it became—

	C:	So I wonder, when you were drafted, could you pick a service?



	M:	Oh, no, no, no. See, you could pick one if you weren’t drafted, but once you become drafted you had to go in the Army. But if you volunteered you could go to volunteer any other branch of service, and a lot of my classmates went to the Air Force, Navy, and all that—

	C:	Because they volunteered?



	M:	Because they volunteered. But once you were drafted, you were Army only. C:	And they volunteered out of high school?





	M:	Yeah, a lot of my classmates left high school already prepared to go into the Navy, Air Force, whatever the case might have been.

	C:	I heard in one of the interviews, this man—this is a similar topic, it’s about graduating high school down south in Hialeah, Florida, down by Miami in I want to say [19]64, and he said the recruiters would tell them, “All of you are getting drafted anyways, so if you volunteer, you’re going to get a better deal.”

	M:	Well now, that is true to that. Because once you volunteer, you got to select your MOS [Military Occupational Specialties] is what they call it and that’s what you want to be—this, that, or that. But in the meantime, if you got drafted, they assigned you any duty they wanted to assign you to. So there wasn’t no, “I want to be this, I want to be that.” When you got out of basic training, you look and see what they call your call your MOS, which is—

	C:	That’s Military Occupational Status?



M:  Yeah. Specialty or whatever. Yeah. And you were—Are you kidding? But there wasn’t nothing you could do about it. You had to. But if you signed up, then you could say, well, I want to work in this field or that field or that field. And they had to honor that. So that was different, but if you volunteered, it was three years. If you got drafted, you had two years.

	C:	And you said that some of the folks you had that have been in the service for a long time—like twenty years or however long it is—some of these classmates of yours you said volunteered. Do you know anybody that was in it for that long— the ones that volunteered out of high school—do they stay?





	M:	Yeah, I don’t know where they are right now. I guess most of them have passed away, because you know, that’s been a long time ago.

	C:	Of course.



	M:	And yeah, I had a lot of friends went in and come out but most of them passed away now, so—They made a career out of it and they—

	C:	So I wonder, going back to the American Legion Post, when did you start? You said you were invited here?

	M:	I was invited to go to a meeting. C:	A meeting.

	M:	And join, yes.



	C:	What was the name of the gentleman that invited you? M:	A gentleman by the name of Jesse Hooks.

	C:	Jesse Hooks.



	M:	Excuse me, he was—not at that time, not a commander, he was just a member, he wasn’t commander. But he eventually became commander at the post at a given time, and like I say, he’s up on the board right now as one of the original members that started out the American Legion Post.

	C:	And where were you meeting back then?



	M:	We were meeting at an elementary school. It’s about five minutes from here. You know the city?

	C:	Not too well. It’s my second time in a month, but second time ever. M:	Okay, so you don’t live here?

	C:	No, no.





	M:	Okay, well anyway—



	C:	It’s not too far from here?



	M:	It’s not there anymore, right now it’s just empty ground, it’s been torn down— C:	They tore down the building?

	M:	They tore down the building and nothing has been put there. C:	So just an empty lot?

	M:	Just an empty lot, and I guess that’s school—It stayed there fifty years before they tore it down, because the last time I went there was for the fourth, fifth, and sixth grade and that was in [19]55 or [19]56.

	C:	This was a Black elementary school? M:	Yeah, mmhm.

	C:	Did it ever get integrated? M:	No.

	C:	Do you know what happened when the integration order came through? It was still used or—

	M:	Yeah, it started being used for night school for senior citizens who wanted to go back and get their GED. It was used for that before they finally tore it down.

	C:	And so that’s where you would meet with the Post?



	M:	Yes, we was allowed to go and have our monthly meeting in one of those because like I say, it was a night school for adults. It was a night school, so we didn’t have no problem in coming in. And the school was already opened so we’d just find us a room.so we could meet there. We met there a number of years and then we had an opportunity to rent a building. Emma called it a chicken coop





[Laughter] because it was small, but it was a beginning. And I would say it was about one, two, three, four blocks over from where the school was. This wasn’t that far from where we rented the building. And we started out in there, like I say, with no more than ten members. Over the years, it began to grow and grow. The gentleman up there now, he just passed away less than a year ago. He was one of the primary people that made this from that building to this building. Like I said prior, cooking chicken, fish, all that on Saturday, scallops and everything.

Raising money until we finally got enough money raised to pay down on this building. And this building was a Circle K, Tom Thumb, whatever you want to call it.

	C:	Like a Seven Eleven type of thing?



	M:	It was a Seven Eleven, Seven Eleven right, back in them days that’s what you had, Seven Eleven.

	C:	Do you happen to remember the year that you first started meeting?



	M:	Now I thought about that today and I couldn’t say definitely, but I think it was in the year about somewhere [19]82, [19]83, something like that, yeah. And during that time, it had had its ups and downs and of course we’ve had it from here.

That other section back there, that was added on since we have… And it’s been [Laughter] just like any other business, you know?

	C:	Good and bad days.



	M:	Good and bad days, yeah. Matter of fact, there was one time, I can’t remember the year per say, but it was claimed supposed to be shut down. But it survived and right now it’s not in its glory days, but it’s going. It has had some good years,





but just like any other business, it’s let off and get down and then come back and get up.

	C:	So, when it was established around [19]82, do you think it helped build community between the veterans, especially the Black veterans in town?

	M:	Well, yes because when we was at the older building, the first building, like I say, it was scattered rates. And people would come and go. But once we moved over here and began soliciting our veterans, then it became more upbeat, per say. And of course, we have a lot of veterans that come in here and they join, but they don’t show much or participate. But they’ll come and—

	C:	They’ll show up.



	M:	They’ll show up. [Laughter] But that’s the way it is, especially older veterans, they don’t like to get out and all that, I guess. Hope I’m one of those that still comes back and participates. But it is hard. Some of the young guys around here that— You try to get them and you try to tell them what’s the good part about it, what it offers. But, like anything else, “I can’t be bothered, I don’t want to be bothered.” But then you’ve got some people who say, “Hey, I’m here for the long run and whatever it takes to make this place move, that’s what I’ve got to do.” I admit, when we came over here, there were some guys that were—especially retired guys—they put their heart and soul in this building remodeling and doing this and doing that. But all those guys gone on to glory now, so it’s just left up to the younger people now to keep it going. And it has done well in the community.

We’re a community that minds their influence.





	C:	And I wonder, you said [19]82 so I guess the people that are—The Vietnam War is over at that point, by [19]82—

	M:	The Vietnam War ended in the early [19]70s.



	C:	Way over then. But so most of the veterans that would come here or were in the group that would meet in the elementary school, were they mostly in the Vietnam Era or was it people from prior conflicts as well?

	M:	We’re talking about people in World War II. C:	World War II, okay.

	M:	Or the Korean War, like in the [19]50s. Yeah, that was…



	C:	And so what was their relationship like between the different generations? Do you think people got along or they understood there was commonalities between what they did?

	M:	I must say, the Korean veterans, especially the older ones, when I joined the American Legion, they were real tight knitted together. And of course, as time go on, you encountered people with different personalities and different ideas and sometimes everything doesn’t work out. So I would say the older group was the most group that was—You had to be in order to really to get things to work out. But now, once things get established, and things start going good and different people start having different ideas and thinking drifts, gets erupted—But as a whole, you haven’t had it well, there haven’t been no drag-down knock-out fights or nothing like that. But there have been some disagreements. As of right now, at this present time, I think it’s really—we’ve got people in here that really love to do what they do and keep the Post going.





	C:	You mentioned how obviously there’s times in which things go really well, and I assume, did some of that coincide with the time you said in the [19]90s where you said Pensacola was a big Navy town and there was the—

	M:	Well, let’s go back and say mostly in the [19]70s, [19]80s, and [19]90s Pensacola was a big Navy town, yeah.

	C:	And today it’s just—I don’t want to call them vessels, aircraft carriers, is that—?



	M:	Yes. Mmhm, we had what they called “The Lexington,” which was a big aircraft carrier that got but into mothballs.

	C:	So it’s like a museum now or do they still use it?



	M:	It is not a museum—What do they call that thing, when you put it in the ocean? C:	Like they anchor it?

	M:	Yeah, for when you bury it out in the sea—there’s a word for burying something. C:	yeah, I’ve heard of it before.

	M:	It’s out in the Gulf of Mexico.



	C:	Oh wow. That’s pretty interesting.



	M:	Yeah, they got it—because it went through Congress to get it and put it out—A reef! A reef, yeah, it’s a reef out in the Gulf of Mexico. And they had vessels bringing—When they got really a big ship in here, because I think it’s gone away now, we was geared up to bring a big ship in here that had mostly officers, a lot of officers. And Pensacola really built up and was getting ready for about five or six years it was just building, building, building. Schools, everything. And the Army changed their mind. And that ship hasn’t gotten here yet. And this was in the early [19]90s, when that was supposed to happen. But their plan went bad,





and the Army decided they wasn’t gonna have a break down building up, and that ship never did get here. And it left Pensacola with quite a bit of residential— you know, like apartment complexes, there were a lot of apartment complexes and residences for them to have somewhere for them to stay. But eventually they said they wasn’t gonna come and I managed some of them buildings, they’re still [inaudible 48:13] [Laughter] because they really haven’t prepared for it, you know?

	C:	You said they would have housed a lot of officers?



	M:	Yeah, mmhm. Yeah, they would have. There’s a place out there called Perdido Key. Oh, it was a lot of apartment complexes.

	C:	High-rise complex?



	H:	Not high rises, but maybe two units, not a high rise. Mostly an upstairs and a downstairs unit. So, what about you now? Are you from the area?

	U:	Yeah, I also go to the University of Florida in Gainesville, so I’m part of the— C:	We’re both students.

	M:	But you’re not from here?



	?:	No, I’m not.



	C:	We came over for the day. Actually, we’re staying until Sunday morning. Sunday morning is when we’re leaving, and we got here last night. Yeah, we’re going between here and Cantonment doing interviews. Sir, I guess, to close at least the history of the Post, obviously you’ve taken part in—

	M:	--the good and the bad. [Laughter]





	C:	You’ve seen quite a lot, obviously, over the years, so looking back on it, what really comes to mind when you think about the good things that came out of here and the work that y’all do for the veterans but also for the youth and the community, et cetera? What do you really think? Why do you think this a good place to keep as a legacy?

	M:	Oh! First of all, it gives the veterans somewhere to go and something that’s special. And then it gives the community, they can come in here and feel safe. It’s a place where we don’t tolerate violence, not even the members. And, of course, sometimes somebody will get a little out of hand and they’ll have to be put in place, but it’s served the public. It’s served the veterans and the general public, because we have not just only veterans but a lot of the general public that comes here. Matter of fact, many more of the general public come here than the veterans does. [Laughter] And with the work that we’ve done in the community, It is recognized by the general public for what the Post does. So I really think it’s a good thing for the community and I just found out today in talking to— there’s not really many Black American Legions in the state of Florida. And really, I didn’t know that. I was thinking everywhere you go in a city of any size they would have one, put apparently not. I think it has served the community well, the community has served it well, and I just think it’s— And another one of the good things that it does, we have what they call a Service Officer.

	C:	Service Officer?



	M:	Yeah, a Service Officer is someone who is very familiar with the basic rights of the veteran. What he can get and what he can’t get or whatever treatment might





been available to him. And you know, a lot of things is available to a veteran, and I don’t even know them all to tell you the truth. But if there’s a question mark, then we have what they call a Service Officer that is very well familiar with the different—

	C:	In other words, this would be like benefits? M:	Benefits, yes.

	C:	Housing or college or whatever?



	M:	Yes, and if he can’t tell you then he can send you somewhere else— C:	He can get him someone that can.

	M:	Right. And that’s one of the good things about this. Personally, I’m not a personal user of getting involved in trying to get all the benefits that are offered, because I don’t go to… What do you call that thing, the base? I don’t go to it for that. I don’t have no medical.

	C:	-- commissary?



	M:	I don’t go to the commissary, I don’t go to medical, I don’t have— C:	No VA?

	M:	No VA at all.



	C:	Is that offered to you, do you think?



	M:	It is offered, special benefits, but to tell you the truth, I don’t trust them. Never had trusted them.

	C:	Mmhm.



	M:	My thing has been—And I don’t chiefly guess it, but I know how it was a long time ago, and I can’t say how it is now. But there was a lot of trainees that was in





the hospitals and medical centers and all that and I didn’t want to become a trainee casualty, so I just have never went to a VA clinic for medicine. Not there. But it’s there if—

	C:	That’s interesting.



	M:	But I have never used it, because of my long-time negative attitude in reference to doctors and dentists and nurses. [Laughter] Take you on out to one of the regular hospitals.

	C:	I have a question because you mentioned you weren’t aware of any—You found it to be strange, the fact that this is the only Black Veterans Post in the state of Florida—

	M:	No, I’m not saying this is the only one. C:	You weren’t aware of others?

	M:	I wasn’t aware of where any others was, but I found out. You know, you just assume that—Now I’m not saying no Posts, I’m saying Black American Legion Posts. Like I say, I was under the assumption that Gainesville, Tallahassee, any of those other counties had an American Legion Post. But in talking around here today, no we don’t have but just a few in the state of Florida.

	C:	Are you familiar with a Post in other states? I heard that in Alabama there’s a lot of Black veterans or in other states in the South as well. Do you know anything about other states?

M:  Now when you say like Alabama, even if you’re talking about Mobile, I cannot tell you. I really can’t I’m not familiar with it. Now, I’m familiar with some around here. Not just Black but American Legion Posts. But out of the state, I’m not familiar





with them. First of all, I don’t go to conventions. So that’s when you get a chance to meet a lot of people. I don’t go to conventions, so I don’t be involved in that kind of congregation.

	C:	People that come through here, are they mostly from Pensacola or are these people from out of town as well?

	M:	Mostly Pensacola. And like I say, if somebody comes to visit or something or somebody has a relative and brings them through here. But this Post is primarily just people who live in the neighborhood.

	C:	Yes sir. So usually we reserve some time towards the end of the interview so that if you want to add anything or if we skipped over something that you want to share or any comments whatsoever.

	M:	You know, I think that I have stayed on the quest of an axe. Any personal knowledge that I am aware of, so I really don’t have anything that I know of that I can add to what I’ve already said.

	C:	Well, we appreciate everything that you’ve said, and it was really nice to get all these perspectives from you.

	M:	I appreciate you. And like I say, I have enjoyed being a member of the Post and I’ve gotten to the point now where, you know, this coming July I’ll be seventy- eight years old. And so I come, I participate, but I don’t try to run it. I’ve gotten to the stage now where I’ll sit back and listen and let the younger people— [Laughter]

	C:	Well, that’s important too. Well, we hope that this keeps on going as long as it can. It’s quite a place. Looking around, there’s a whole lot of history. I saw a





couple of posters—The Tuskegee Airmen, that’s history that gets forgotten, I feel, by the mainstream.

	M:	You might well see on outside there; Pensacola is going to adopt Chappie James.

	C:	The museum, right?



	M:	No, I’m not talking about the museum. I’m talking about the photo of Chappie James—just one minute, I think it’s right here. Here, the Chappie James picture. Are you familiar with Chappie James?

	C:	No sir.



	M:	Chappie James was the first four-star general from this area. Black four-star general. And they’re building a new bridge that goes over the bridge, and they’re going to rename that bridge the Chappie James bridge, and they’re going to put that photo there in a statue on the entrance up there. And as of now, they’re placing that picture on a painting on the wall outside out there. So that picture will be painted on the wall out there, that’s a great honor.

	C:	It sure is. The first four-star Black general in the area? M:	He was the first Black four-star general in the Army.

	C:	Oh! Wow, overall?



	M:	Yeah. His family is, you know, most of them have died out now but— C:	Yeah, we can take a picture of

	M:	He went to Tuskegee. He was one of the Tuskegee Airmen. Are you familiar with the Tuskegee Airmen?





	C:	Very little from what—I guess they were the first Black pilots in World War II?



And they’re out of Tuskegee, Alabama.



	M:	Mmhm, out of Tuskegee, Alabama.



	C:	Because from what I’ve been told, there’s this famous order that Truman gave to integrate the troops, but this was before that?

	M:	Yes. There was a group—



	C:	The whole unit was just Black soldiers?



	M:	Mmhm, yeah. Like I say, he went on to become a four-star and he retired. They say he went to school at the same school I went to—for high school.

	C:	Booker T. Washington Senior? M:	Mmhm. Sure did.

	C:	Well it’s definitely very important to give them the recognition that they deserve. M:	We had another gentleman here at this post, he was considered a Tuskegee

Airman, but he wasn’t a flyer, he was a mechanic. But he got the recognition as part of the Tuskegee Airmen.

	C:	He made sure the planes could fly.



	M:	Yeah, so his picture is back there on the wall.



	C:	Well, so thank you so much for sharing all of this, it’s very important.



	M:	Thank you all for coming in and getting whatever information you can get. One day I might go to Washington near Louise and suffer.

	C:	Library of Congress.



	M:	Library of Congress, okay. C:	Yes sir.





	M:	All right, thank you very much. C:	Thank you sir.





























[End of interview] Transcribed by: Abby Lovett

Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, June 16, 2021 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, June 18, 2021