AAHP 473; Vaughan; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 473 Yves Vaughan

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Justin Dunnavant on January 27, 2017

3 minutes | 3 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 473

Interviewee: Yves Vaughan Interviewer: Justin Dunnavant Date: January 27, 2017



	D:	All right today is January 27th, we are here at the IBC farewell event collecting reflections with students and staff, and faculty about what the IBC means to them and I am sitting here with Ms.—

	V:	Yves Vaughan



	D:	Yves Vaughan, thank you Ms. Vaughan. We just want to collect reflections with interns, students, and so forth about their experiences and wondering kind of how you first got involved in the IBC.

	V:	I first got involved as a Black Affairs ambassador. I got like an email or something from Ms. Vee and I was like “Oh yeah” I wanted to meet more Black persons. I felt like I didn’t have any Black friends on campus and so I was like, “Yeah this would be a great opportunity” so I joined and I hadn’t really been to the house a lot before I was an ambassador and then once I became an ambassador I liked being over there and I liked being here as well but over there it’s just a different atmosphere. It’s like a house. Anytime we ever had like any events going on over there it felt like a house party.

	D:	So, what sort of events did you attend there do you remember specifically?



	V:	I remember last fall we had our open house and it was just literally just like a house party. Music and there was food and it was so much fun and we also hosted another farewell event there at the end of the fall semester and that was again just like a house party and people coming and just hanging out and listening to music, like old music, and so it was just a lot of fun.





	D:	Cool, cool and then you were mentioning a little about the transition, but what does that transition to this space in the Reitz meant for you?

	V:	Well before I became an ambassador I hadn’t really been to either space a whole lot. Everybody being over here full-time is a little different. We had a staff meeting yesterday and I instinctively was headed towards the house, and then literally I had to reroute myself in my car. “Wait that’s not where you’re going, we don’t have meetings there anymore.” So, it’s been different. It’s different over here, but we’re making it work.

	D:	What do you hope to see the IBC become? After the new house is renovated?



	V:	I hope it keeps the same character. The same atmosphere, but also that it changes in that it is better suited for the needs of the students. Before we were just kind of given a literal house, and it’s hard to make that into a student center. So, now I hope that when it’s reconstructed and everything it meets the needs of the students, but it doesn’t lose its character and its atmosphere.

	D:	Cool. And then, finally, when you hear the word IBC, or the acronym IBC, what are some words that come to mind?

	V:	I think it’s like a home away from home. Which I think everybody has said that like a thousand times, but it’s just a home away from home. I think of my friends and music and just hanging out, and just honestly having a good time.

	D:	Good and then finally, your classification and your major.



	V:	I’m a third-year junior and my major is applied physiology and kinesiology. D:	Thank you and this is Justin Dunnavant signing out.

[End of interview]











	Transcribed by:	Allison Mitchell, July 10, 2017 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, October 17, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 28, 2019