AAHP 368; Cooks; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 368 Retha Mae Cooks African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Ryan Morini on April 11, 2015 1 hour, 19 minutes | 38 pages





Abstract: Retha Mae Cooks was born in White Springs Florida on November 21, 1935. She was born at her grandmother’s house by a midwife to her father, who worked in a saw mill, and mother who stayed home to care for her and her seven siblings. The jones family moved to Lake City where their father’s family resided and Retha and her siblings learned to hunt and fish very young, which is how their father and mother provided food for their family. She assisted her mother in caring for her younger siblings and taking care of the home. After she got of age she moved back to White Springs and ended up meeting her husband. In eleven years, her and her husband saved enough money to build their own home. Her and her husband, along with a few other people founded New Jerusalem Baptist Church.



Keyword: [African American History; Hamilton County, Florida; Agriculture; Hunting]









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 368

Interviewee: Retha Mae Cooks Interviewer: Ryan Morini

Date: April 11, 2015



	M:	So this is Ryan Morini, from the Sam Proctor Oral History Program from the University of Florida. I’m sitting here today with Ms. Retha Mae Cooks, on the porch of her home here in White Springs, Florida. Thanks for joining me today.

	C:	You so welcome.



	M:	So could we start with your name? It’s—? C:	Retha Mae Cooks.

	M:	Okay. And that’s M-A-E. C:	M-A-E.

	M:	Okay. What’s your maiden name, if I could ask? C:	Retha Mae Jones Cooks.

	M:	Jones, okay.



	C:	Mmhm.



	M:	So, were you born here in White Springs? C:	I was born in White Springs, yes.

	M:	May I ask the date, your birthdate? C:	November the 21st, 1935.

	M:	November 24th, 19— C:	Twenty-first.

	M:	21st, 1935. So, was there a midwife there, or were you born at a hospital here, or what—?

	C:	I was born at a—as far as I know, I was born at my grandmother’s house in White Springs, Mmhm.





[Brief interruption as visitor comes to the door.]



	M:	Was there a midwife or anything? Do you know much about the birth, or—? C:	Yeah, that’s what Momma said, it was a midwife. I think her name was

Grandmomma Harriet, I think. But that was the midwife, that Momma said. And I was at my grandmomma’s house at that time. And after that, her and Dad moved us to our grandmomma’s house in Lake City. And we stayed there, in a little house that Granddaddy owned for until I got, us were grown. And then I moved back over here with my uncle. And that’s where—Uncle Horace. And that’s where I got married, right there. We started from there. And I think I stayed with him for almost about two or three—three years, I believe it was. And we moved out, my husband and I, Odean Cooks, and we had a little house of our own until we built this one here. And this one, raised all our kids in it now.

	M:	So you built this house that we’re in.



	C:	My husband, yes he did. Mmhm. He built the house. We moved here and we raised seven little kids.

	M:	Wow. Okay, so how old were you when you moved back here?



	C:	I remember I had Lucy, my baby—let’s see… I don’t know exactly how long, it’s about three years after I got married, I was nineteen, so.

	M:	Around sixteen, something like that? C:	No, I said I got married, I was nineteen. M:	Oh, oh, right. Right, okay.

	C:	That was after then. I must have been about twenty-five, I imagine. Somewhere like that. But I know we built the house, it was about—oh, I can’t remember what





year that it was done. But I had a sister-in-law living here, but what year it was? When we finished this house and moved in it?

	M:	Okay. Did it take a few years to build?



	C:	Yeah, it took a little. It took a while. Mmhm. You know, I just don’t quite recall that right now. Yeah. We raised all our kids here.

	M:	Wow. Is this the same wood stove you always had, or is this—?



	C:	That’s the same one---we had one, see, I just use this on the back porch. The house is air and heat, and when I don’t want to stay in the house, I just come on out and open the back door, and sit on the back porch, and put a fire in that.

Because it keep it real warm. [Laughter] I have central heat and everything in the house, but—but see, he built this himself, and so, we fix it like we wanted to.

Everything. Because we looked for it back then, and so, we built it—I mean, he



built it hisself. Some odd number, we paid for it as we went.



	M:	And what was your husband’s name, again? C:	Odean Cooks.

	M:	O.D.?



C:  Odean Cooks, Mmhm. M:  How do you spell that? C:  O-D-E-A-N.

	M:	Odean, okay.



	C:	Odean Cooks. And he was something, there. He been gone now about four



years, see?



	M:	I see. Was he also from White Springs, or was he from Lake City?





	C:	Yes, this was home. He was really born and lived in White Springs all his life. I just lived here since I was grown and everything, because Momma and Daddy lived out at Lake City. And after I got grown, now, we started dating each other. I figure I was about seventeen then. I know I married when I was nineteen, I know that. And went from there!

	M:	Do you mind if I ask a little more about growing up in Lake City? C:	Yeah, you can.

	M:	Okay. Why did your parents move there?



	C:	Because, see, Momma home over here. And Daddy’s home was in Lake City. So that’s why they was in Lake City. And that’s why we all stayed in Lake City. See, Momma stayed with Daddy until he died. And so therefore, I stayed with my husband until he died. We was married fifty-five years. Mmhm.

	M:	Could I ask your parents’ names?



C:  Sally Jones—Phillip Jones and Sally Jones. M:  And what was your mother’s maiden name? C:  Dye.

M:   Dye?



C:   Sally Dye, D-Y-E.



	M:	Okay. So Sandy Dye Jones— C:	Sally.

	M:	Sally Dye Jones. And so the Dyes were from White Springs, then. C:	White Springs, Mmhm. White Springs.

	M:	How’d they meet, then, if your father was from Lake City? Did they—?





	C:	Now, I never heard Momma talk about how did they meet, now. That’s one thing I’ve wondered myself here, lately. My mom been dead about fifteen years now. But I never heard her talk about how did he meet her or anything. Because I know Daddy, all his people lived there within Lake City. And all Momma people lived over here. Mmhm. Somewhere, but I just never heard her talk about, how did they meet?

	M:	I guess it worked out for them.



	C:	Yeah, it worked out for them! Because they, Momma and Daddy were together until he passed, right before she passed. Because he passed, I believe, about twenty years. But Daddy been dead ever since my oldest daughter went to college. And she done came out of school now, and taught school for thirty-five years or something like that, so Dad been dead a long time. Because he died the same year, the second year she was in college in Tallahassee.

	M:	Was she going to FAMU or FSU or…?



	C:	Hm? Oh, I’m telling you something else here. She went there in Pensacola.



That’s where she went to school at, out there in Pensacola. I’m telling you about my granddaughter there. My granddaughter went to school—no, she [daughter] went there to Pensacola, to University of West Florida. That’s where she went at, there. Yeah. [Laughter] I’m getting kind of aging, but now, she done been out of college, and she done taught school thirty years. And she retired last year— thirty-five years. And she taught school for thirty years, and she went and dropped and taught school five more years. And she just retired last year.

Mmhm.





	M:	So could I ask, what did your dad do for a living?



	C:	Dad was a—chipping boxes, I don’t know if you know what that is. M:	Turpentine, right?

	C:	Dad started off with that, and just before I got married, he was working to the sawmill. But it was so hard on him. I really felt sorry for him all the time. And he’d be so tired, it look like. And he come in like this. [Adopts a sagging posture.] At that time, work was real really hard then. And them days, well we… was kind of scared, and we did everything what everybody say to do! And so, he was just so…

	M:	Do you know which sawmill it was up in Lake City?



	C:	It’s Daniels Sawmill. That’s the name it was, Daniels’ Sawmill. In Lake City. M:	And before that, he was doing turpentine, then?

	C:	He was turpentining in the woods for—what the man name was? [Mutters to herself trying to remember.] Alvin Dixie.

	M:	Alvin Dixie.



	C:	Because it was his turpentine plant, name Alvin Dixie. It wasn’t but twenty—it was on 441, between Lake City and White Springs.

	M:	Oh, okay.



	C:	Just over right in there. I remember the man and everything. I was a child, but I remember all of it.

	M:	So you met his boss, then, or you saw him? C:	Oh yeah, yeah.

	M:	What was he like?





	C:	He was a—Alvin Dixie was a real, you know, nice man. He was friendly to all peoples there. The way he was.

	M:	So did your dad want to move to the sawmill, or he—was that just something—?



	C:	No, I think that Alvin Dixie, he went out of that business, and went and run a restaurant then. I think. He got out of that business. And Daddy had to go, you know, to make ends meet. He had to go to the sawmill.

	M:	So he liked working for Alvin Dixie, but working at that sawmill was much—that was a rough job.

	C:	Mmhm, it was. We knowed about—I know about this, so I can talk about it. I don’t want to talk about that. But we knowed Mr. Dixie, too. Because he was just so nice. Because he would give us sugar. Daddy could go get a bag of sugar for you, you know, it was something like a commissary. And they give them stamps, and something to eat, different stuff to eat with. It was different when he got to the sawmill, but [inaudible 12:31].

	M:	So were you living in a turpentine camp when you were growing up, or were you actually living in Lake City proper?

	C:	No, it was out in the woods. It was out in the woods by Lake—I guess it’s by a



lake out to here. They just went—for only one house out there where we was at



		. Off of what Granddaddy’s was. All I can remember, the one house right there, and we was out there with Daddy and Momma. But it was about five or six houses, that’s it. About from here to the little bridge. Around us, we could haul across the woods and play with children, stuff like that, but—wasn’t no sawmill.





But I knew about the sawmill and things. We never did live on the sawmill. We lived in a house way back in the woods.

	M:	So where did you go to school, then? Did you have a lot of neighbors nearby, or were you just kind of off by yourselves in that house?

	C:	No, we didn’t have neighbors by us. We had some colvs and such. Let’s see, we had about three houses, see? About as far from us as the little bridge is, and that was the only place we walked from Lake City on anyway. But that was a good little ways, there! And we would be together, sit down and play together, and we went to school at the little kitchen right by our church. Still, there’s an old church there now. But we build the church. But we went to school in a little kitchen right there by that old church. And until they built the school at New Hope—they were building the school—that’s when we walked to school. We walked to school until they—and that was a good little ways from the house. And Fowler, there’s an old man name Old Richie, started to haul us to school on the back of a truck. And so just before I quit school, and had to go and help Momma do different things, they put a little bus on there for us. And that’s when it started picking up, and I was out of school, just, quit school. I didn’t get no farther than sixth grade [inaudible 15:20]. Went back there. And that’s all I can remember about that. Because like I say, I got married, I was nineteen then. We was older than school.

	M:	Okay. Did you have a favorite teacher at that school, or anything, do you remember anything about what the school’s—or any of the different places you





were going to school—do you remember any teachers, or did any of them kind of stand out?

	C:	Yeah, Miss Ethel Mae Combs. She was—her husband was a funeral director in Lake City. He owned the funeral home. And she was a school teacher there. She was a real nice teacher. All let us go home with her on the weekends, and she would—because it was a bunch of us children. And she would take me to town, buy me different things, stuff like that. She was a real nice, teacher, too. That’s the only one that I can really remember good, is Ethel Mae Combs.

	M:	So you know, I didn’t ask—what did your mother do? Like, did she work, or did she just take care of the house, and things like that?

	C:	She took care of the house, and if any of the neighbors around wanted her to do something or other, she would go up and do it, to help Daddy give us food and stuff. Mmhm.

	M:	Okay. So did you—how big was the house you were growing up in out there in the woods? Was that—

	C:	[Laughter] Oh, about as big as that kitchen and dining room together, I imagine. It was not that big.

	M:	That’s not too small. But how many siblings did you have?



	C:	Momma had how many children? I think it was twelve of us. But now, all of them weren’t there. Because see, I’d been grown a long time. See, my baby sister— about fifty-five. I’m trying to think of how old Amy is. Now, all of them didn’t together because, see, about four or five of us, or about six of us were grown





before the others came along. But Momma and them had moved out of that little house then—and got a house, you don’t build a house or anything.

	M:	Were they still in Lake City? After they moved out of the little house, were they—



?



	C:	They still in Lake City, they still in the—well, not in Lake City, but out on 441. It’s in Columbia County. Because this happened right there. Mmhm. It was right in the city limit. It was out in the rural area.

	M:	Okay. So, where did you get—did you grow a lot of your food? Did you have a garden or anything like that?

	C:	What you mean, my momma and them, or—? M:	Yeah. Yeah.

	C:	Oh, yeah. Yeah, they, Daddy had—he growed anything he could. He’d plant potatoes, he had potatoes, he had cane, he had corn, peas, greens, about everything. He would plant it, and that’s what we would eat off of until that season was out. And I was eleven or ten, remembering not long ago how Daddy used to bag potatoes. And, you know, sweet potatoes? And that was the last thing he’d do, over the winter. But having the house full, you know, it wouldn’t last the whole winter. Until he’d make some more of it. So we enjoyed ‘em while they had ‘em, Mmhm! [Laughter] We enjoyed them. Daddy kept a little some of them, and Daddy and Momma’d eat some, now. They kept greens to eat the year ‘round, like collards, and mustards, some of that. They kept that the year ‘round. And we’d always get them right out the garden. Because, see, we couldn’t afford to buy them out there.





	M:	That’s got to be good. C:	Mmhm!

	M:	Did your mom do any canning or anything to preserve any of that stuff, or did you just eat it fresh in the season?

	C:	No, Momma would, could preserve it. [inaudible 20:00]. Momma could preserve it and save it, now. And she could—even down to meat. Because Daddy would raise a pig, and kill him for us. She knowed how to fix the meat and preserve that. And I know she used to tell about you got to take it, and put it up on its hind legs, dry with the sun. Then when she’s talking, I would remember her putting some meat out in the sunlight to dry. And I don’t know how it did that, but I remember her doing it, and I remember her cooking some of it. It was good to us, I guess, because we all ate it! [Laughter].

	M:	So she just dried it? You didn’t have a smokehouse or anything to make bacon or anything like that?

	C:	Well, now, Momma didn’t, now, but she had a uncle over there—we called him Uncle Charlie—he had a smokerhouse, and he would smoke it, and make the sausage, and give us some of it once in a while. But the way Momma got on, what she done did is put it out in the hot sun. Put it up on somewhere out the way, somewhere dogs and cats, nothing could get it. And put it out every day in the sun, and take it out, take it back in and put everything back. And I remember bacon—putting a lot of salt on it, and putting it in a box or something. Because I remember that, too. Just how, I don’t know how they did it, but I remember them putting it in the box like that.





	M:	So what were the main meats that you—did you keep chickens and things like that growing up, too?

	C:	Yeah. We had chickens, Momma had chickens. And what she did was, they’d be in the yard, and just before he’d get ready to kill one, she’d shut him up in the pen and clean him out. And I don’t know how long she’d clean him out down there, but shut up in a pen, and wouldn’t eat nothing but what you give them.

And I was telling my grandma that was the best chicken to eat. But now, chicken just a piece of meat. [Laughter] We just throw it in the oven, and we eat it all the time! But that was the best chicken you could eat. Because they was grown—had a coop in the yard, and they were going in the coop at night, and be out in daytime all day, and then go back in the coop. And we had the eggs from the chickens. I remember that, too. And they would go back in there, and lay they eggs in the coop, and sometimes they’d hide them about in there, and we would go find them. [Laughter] And then, that’s how we’d get their eggs. [Inaudible 23:03].

	M:	Was it tough to keep things out of the coop? I mean, I know there are a lot of raccoons, and all kinds of—

	C:	No, because Daddy kept dogs. And them dogs would let you know there’s anything around! [Laughter] You know? And they would catch them coons and opossums and things like that. Daddy—because I loved dogs. See now, around, you know people that love dogs—you’d have to keep them penned up, keep them tied up. But Daddy loved the dogs. And we was way out there by ourselves. And the dogs could be in the yard with us, in the house with us; wherever we was





at, the dogs was there. Mmhm. But they outside at nighttime, and they watched the house and everything else around.

	M:	What kind of dogs were they? Were they a particular breed, or were they just…?



	C:	No… They might have been then, but I didn’t know it. Because I do know some now. But at that time, Daddy just had dogs, is all I know. [Laughter] I don’t know! I don’t know whether they’re breed or not.

	M:	How big were they, about? Like…?



	C:	As far as I know, they never get no higher than that. Mmhm.



	M:	So, probably like, eighty pounds, something like that. Maybe a little less. C:	A little less, I imagine.

	M:	Yeah. Maybe sixty?



	C:	The size they were and everything. M:	But so they watched the house.

	C:	They watched the house, now. And they would—my brother and I—of course, he dead, too—we would, my Daddy likeded to hunt. Not like they hunt now, because Daddy walk around and shoot little things that we could eat. And the dogs, and my brother learned how to hunt, and I was right there with him. Just two of us at the time. And the way we would do, they’d, Daddy had it to where the dogs knew to hunt. And we would take them out there, sic them out there, and we knowed when they had something. Because they had a different bark. They would put their, they would run the rabbit, or—mostly a rabbit—coon, or opossum or something or other, in a hollow log, or even a coon up a tree. The rabbit would go in a hollow log. I remember that good. And we would go, and it would be in





bushes like they got there. And I remember going down, going back in them woods, and look around in them bushes out there. And that rabbit be up that hollow log, and we’d take us some matches, and get us some moss, and stick it up that hollow log and set it afire. And that rabbit’ll come out! And we’ll grab him, and beat his head upside the tree until we kill it. And bring him home and Momma cook it! Now, I remember that! We talk about that the other almost, me and one of my friends, were laughing and talking. And then bring them to the house, and Momma clean that rabbit, and she cook that right. We eat that right up then. And Momma got—that dog, he had a, that they would bark. But when they get him up there to where we could get it, then they’d have another bark.

And my brother name Freddie. He’d say, “Retha Mae! They got him treed, now let’s go get him!” And we’d go to them bushes, go on up, and get that rabbit out that hollow log! [Inaudible 27:06] I was telling one of my friends the other day how we used to do that. Because I did—my cousin, I had a cousin that was coming to stay with us some of the time. And we was right in those woods out there. I said, “This is one of the rabbits they had us kill before we even got grown.” Because I mean, we’d go in the woods out there, and Mom would be somewhere down to the house, and Dad asleep, with the baby or something.

And we’d be out here in the woods out there. Picking blueberries in blueberry season. And they had wild blueberries, wild bryberries—we called them bryberries. And we would go out there and pick them, bring them to the house, and sometimes we’d sit out and eat them all at one time. Sometimes Momma would cook them for us. And we’d have us a blueberry—we don’t call it a





blueberry pie, like they do. They call it “blueberry doobie.” That was what she called it then.

	M:	Blueberry doobie?



	C:	Blueberry doobie. Momma would put some up, put it in a pot, put it on the stove.



Put a little bit of sugar in them—because at that time, we wasn’t getting much sugar—and I remember her making some flour dough. And when it get to boiling, she’d drop it in there, and that what they called—she sit up in there making blueberry doobie. And we sit out and make a meal off of that. Mmhm.

	M:	So what was the blueberry doobie like? Like, was it basically like a pie, or—? C:	It was like a pie, but you put it on the stove. I mean—

	M:	Oh, so it’s like—okay.



	C:	Put some water in the pot, put the blueberries in there, and let them start cooking. Put a little bit of sugar in it. And then you put a little bit of sugar in, and then you go ahead on and make dumplings and put it in there, and then we called in there. That’s what we would eat. It be good, too!

	M:	Sounds good. Does sound good.



	[Brief interruption from visitor; break in recording] M:	Started again.

	C:	I don’t know what I was saying. We worked at night. [Inaudible at 29:21].



	M:	So does anyone still make blueberry doobie or anything like that? Or is it just pies now?

	C:	No, not—no. Not now. Least, I know of. Every once in a while, my children get in behind me, and my baby—he’s a police in Tampa—and every once in a while,





he come in. “Momma! Why don’t you make me a blueberry doobie?” That was the last time he was here! He told me to make it, but I didn’t make it—that was Christmas. He, “Momma, you going to make no blueberry doobie?” And I said, “I don’t know. I’m kind of tired now. I might before you go, before you got to go back to Tampa.” I said, “I ain’t made no blueberry doobie in years. Make it when you come back in January,” but he ain’t been back yet, so! [Laughter] But he’ll be back. I’m sure he’ll be back. As I say, he’s a cop in Tampa. He been there for the last ten or twelve years or longer. He done that ever since he got out of high school.

	M:	So when you got those rabbits and things, what did your mom usually do? Did she roast them, or boil them up, or fry them, or…?

	C:	Well, Momma would creaming the rabbits to have hair on them. She’d take them and skin them. And then she’ll gut them and clean them and everything. And she would boil them, and we would take them—she’d take them and put them in something boil them until they get tender. Then she would take them and flour them down, and kind of fry them, and then put a little water on them. Put a little— it’ll be real good! And she’d fry them a little bit, then she’d put the water in there, onions in there, other things in them. Mmhm.

	M:	Wow, that sounds—that must have been tender!



	C:	It’d be real, real deal, rabbit was real good! Yeah. I don’t eat wild stuff now, I don’t know why. Because that’s all we raised up on. Wild stuff. But I don’t eat none of it now.

	M:	Yeah, rabbit is good. Did you get cottontails, or what kind of rabbit?





C:  No, they wild rabbits. Oh, the tails be white, but they’ll be brown. They wild. They the ones in the wild, I see one around here now every once in a while. But I don’t know. I don’t think I’ve eaten it since I was a child.

M:   So there used to be a lot of rabbits, though.



	C:	Oh, at that time it was. When we lived there it was. Of course, I’ve seen them over here. They here in my younger days. I think I was married. I seen them on week ago too. Mmhm.

	M:	Well, so what other wild stuff did you eat? Did you eat the opossums, or raccoons, or anything like that? Did you ever eat squirrel?

	C:	Yeah, we ate—but we didn’t eat many squirrels, because, you know, at that time, the squirrel—through this time now, they small. And you couldn’t catch them because they would go up a tree, or, you know what I’m saying? You couldn’t catch them the way you would, now. Every once in a while, my brother, we would get a opossum or a coon. And they would clean them. Momma would fix them same way. She’d take them and the raccoon, you got to skin them; and opossum I think they burn the hair off of them. And then they wash it real good, gut it and everything. Call it mustard, that what they call it, and get it all cleaned and everything, put it in the pot and boil it, and then I think the ‘coon and the opossum, after it get tender, they put it over and bake it, now. That’s what they would do with them.

	M:	Didn’t need to do that for the rabbit, though, huh?



	C:	No, the rabbit—we were always cooking them on the stove. We had a cooking wood stove. And we had a little wood heater, but not same kind of like that one,





now. Like that, but built up for a stove like that. Mmhm, that’s the kind of stove we had. I didn’t know about these other stoves until after I got out the house, and after I got grown. Get grown first. I’m seventy years old—seventy-seven years old, now. So you know that’s a long time, right there! Mmhm. And that’s all we had.

	M:	Did you eat—did you ever get any deer or anything, or were they just too—



	C:	No, we didn’t never know about that until—well, I know about it now. But at that time, that’s what I named, just rabbits, the ‘coons, and the opossums. And we were like that. And, we’d get a lot of fish, now.

	M:	I was going to ask, yeah.



	C:	But I’m going to tell you how we got the fish! It was, we lived by a, I call it “pond.” Just like, you go on down that way and see over there? See that thing? That green—but water ran right through the pond, and we knowed all about it. We children now, we children. And like I said, I got married at nineteen, so you know I had to be younger then. And we would go out in that pond, and find holes out there. And see, the water wouldn’t be all on the pond, it’d be in holes. And I used to know something about, I’ll take a nail now. And we would dig out a hole. I would shovel, with Daddy, and we’d go out there and muddy up that water, and all them fish’d come to the top. And we’d catch the fish and put them in a sack, and put them in a tub of water, get them in the house. And Momma would have us—we’d help her clean the fish and everything. She’d fix them. But now, I still can’t remember just how we learned to do all this sort of stuff. But I guess Daddy must have learned us. Because see, I know, that’s when we was going in them





ponds, and we got ready for some fish. And muddied them holes. And all them fish would come up to the top, and we’d get out there and catch them fishes in our hands, and put them in a tub, or either a sack. Sometimes we’d have us a sack out there. Put them in a sack. Bring them to the house to Momma. But I still, I can’t remember just how we learned how to do it, now. I’m pretty sure Daddy and somebody learned us to, but I don’t…

	M:	Okay. What kind of fish were they? Were they catfish, or were they…?



	C:	They catfish, and breams, and—because we, I know the name of them, now— bream, or specks, or catfish, or mudfish, or—I remember the mudfish and the pipe, there’s something on their back. The pipe, there’s this little fruity—you know, he tasted kind of like a trout—now. Now the thing about that, that was, [inaudible 36:50] this was a long fish, and they had—it looked about like a mudfish. But they real good, and it had a kind of red tail to them. But they called them “pipes.” But that’s something I don’t hear now. They probably call them something else.

	M:	I think I’ve heard of them. C:	You’ve heard of the pipes? M:	I think so.

	C:	Oh, I know, now, I’ll tell you something, they were some good fish! But mudfish was good if you could cook it before it got soft. Because, see, the mudfish, it would get real soft after it set and cool a while. So you got to go ahead and cook it right then. But the breams, they were just about like specks. They call them “specks,” now. And of course, they still, I think there’s still bream called specks.





There’s two kinds, there’s the speck and a bream. And that was the kind that we would always get. And then catfish. Now, I remember them catfish because they would stick your hands a lot of the time. But we would get them, though! We sure would get them. We had a way we could catch them somehow, but I don’t know exactly how it was, now. They wouldn’t stick your hand. But I remember Daddy telling us how to do it. And that’s how to catch them, a certain way, and they can’t stick your hand. I can’t remember now—

	M:	Maybe you have to get them behind the head? Because I know the stickers—



	C:	Yeah, I think that’s what Daddy say! And he say, “That’s where you pick them up.



Because you pick them up the other way, they know how to sting you so bad, everything hurt like another world. Stick them stickers in you.”

	M:	They’re sharp, too. C:	Oh, my goodness!

[Brief break in recording due to another visitor.]



	M:	We’ve got it restarted. Okay, so you used to—I mean, did you eat fish a lot, or just sometimes?

	C:	We had what all we could go out there and get, get them. Yeah, we—that was the things I would eat, because I don’t remember none of the other—telling my children now. I said, “I don’t remember us eating no meat, unless we got it like that.” Yeah. I don’t remember Daddy buying no meat unless we got it from a hog that he killed, or cutting, something like that. That’s the only meat that I know anything about. Up there when I was coming up.





M:  Okay. So where did you go—well, you used to go to the commissary, I guess, or your dad would get things at the commissary there for the—

C:  I believe that’s what it was, but see, I think Mr. Dixie had a commissary, I think, now, that Daddy used to see. And that’s where he would get the little food that we could buy, that he could buy it from that commissary.

M:   So that was where you’d get the flour and the other stuff, and that type of thing.



	C:	Yes, uh-huh. Flour, and the, I remember, because I often wondered what in the world we did with that. I think Daddy went by, he’d always bring five pounds of rice, five pounds of sugar, twenty pounds of meal, twenty pounds of grits.

Twenty-five pounds of flour. So, I would say, I don’t know how—I thought about it after I got grown, and was raising my kids. How in the world did we make it off of that? But, we made it some kind of way! And we got grown. But I always sayed, if I ever got grown and had any kids, we wouldn’t have to come in to sweep.

Because we were going to be sure that there would be something else that I didn’t know about kids either, but we grown. It was so hard for us coming up, but I thanks the Lord I learned the hard way. So therefore, my kids didn’t have to go through it, then. All my kids are finished school, and all of them got good jobs and everything. And that one back there asleep now. [Indicating her son inside the house.] He come out of high school, that’s the only way he could go to college.

He come out of high school, he PCS. He worked at the contractors from May to November. In November, they called him at PCS.

M:   PCS?





	C:	PCS Occidental, where he worked at. Because, that’s how we get grub, now.



He called at PCS, and he been there ever since. [Noticing a visitor] That’s my only son left. Warren? This is a guy comes up for interviewing me. I don’t know what I’m doing, but I’m talking! And he taking some notes and things. That’s my son, Warren Cooks.

	M:	Hi, I’m from the University of Florida. I work at the oral history program there. WC:	Oh. Yes, sir.

	M:	Pleasure to meet you. WC:	All right.

	C:	And so he just getting up now, because he works at night. Mmhm. [Break in recording briefly.]

	M:	All right. So, I think we were talking about the—yeah, where you would get things from, and that you were talking about growing up the hard way, I believe, and all of that. So did you ever actually go shopping in town anywhere? Or were you mostly just living out there, kind of—?

	C:	No. My Daddy would always—I don’t remember Momma even going to town. We just lived out there. I liveded in a little house in the woods. And Daddy always would, I believe he would go up to that, whatever it’s called, a commissary or something or other, and bring whatever we had to eat back there. And I don’t remember no one or nothing about us shopping or nothing like that. And we used what people give us, I think. Because like I said, it was a bunch of us. So that’s all I can remember, now. At that time.





	M:	Okay. So did anything change after he started working at that mill, the sawmill?



Because I guess there was no commissary then. Did he have to do more shopping then, or did it still kind of…?

	C:	To me, it did. It changed a little bit. But I don’t believe Daddy was doing as good there, to that mill. Because really, the man was so nasty to him that he couldn’t, he wasn’t able to do nothing too much after he would come from working there. I can remember that, even as a child. Because he broke down so to he couldn’t do nothing but just sit down or lay down. And then, the next morning, he got to get up and go right back, you see. Yeah.

	M:	That is rough.



	C:	It was bad back then, in them days. But you know, as I growed up and I’m living, I’ve learned, after I got grown and everything, and I married and everything, it was different. Because I see that as I grow, I’ve got a bigger garden. How could I survive, how else would I survive, and I got to where I could understand different things and everything, and got married and everything. It was different then. It was just different. We had it tough with Daddy and Momma, Mmhm. And Daddy not being educated at all. Yeah. But thank the Lord, we made it. But now… Well, I say now, I… I don’t want to talk about that no more. [Laughter] My Daddy especially.

	M:	Okay. Okay, we can let that go. So, you said you started helping your mom with work. Was she doing other work when you quit school, or was that just, you were helping with the house?





	C:	I had to help with just the little work that she could do around there. See about the children, and get up and wash the clothes, and help her cook, and help her do everything. We just had to help Momma then. And my brother, the oldest brother, he had to quit school. So he quit school when he was in the eleventh grade. He had to quit school, and go and try to help Daddy, since he was getting a little better, but not good. And he would help Daddy. So that’s the way that went. But, we made it.

	M:	So you’re known for—or at least, people say you’re a very good cook. Did you learn a lot of cooking from your mom?

	C:	I learned all of my cooking from mom. Well, from mom, and after I got grown, and started reading a lots, reading a lots, I learned how to cook mostly by recipes and sitting down talking to other elderly peoples. That’s how I learned how to cook, now. I learned most everything like that, mostly. Just talking to elder peoples, and from Momma and the little things we had. But the mostly, talking to elder peoples since I got grown. And then reading a lots. Mmhm.

[Break in recording]



	M:	So, okay. I didn’t ask—did you know any of your grandparents?



	C:	Yeah, I knew Daddy’s daddy—but I didn’t know the momma, now, because she died when momma said he was around three years old. But I know Daddy’s daddy, and Momma’ momma and daddy. And they weren’t too old or passed. I believe it was about fifteen or twenty years, Momma’ momma and daddy. But I knowed all of them real good then. Mmhm. But Daddy daddy, now, he been dead





a long time. But he was real sweet to us, too. I remember that. And Momma say grandmomma was, from Daddy’s side. But I know Granddaddy, now.

	M:	So what was his name? Your dad’s dad. C:	Silas Jones.

	M:	Silas Jones. So, was he from Lake City, too? Or, do you know—



	C:	As far as I know, now. I can’t remember. As far as I know, that’s where he was from.

	M:	But that’s where he lived when you knew him?



	C:	That’s where I knowed him. And he had a little house over there on 441. But he didn’t live way back as far as we did back there. Granddaddy was real nice to us.

	M:	Especially the grandkids you mean?



	C:	Yeah. Well, as far as I know. Of course, see, I was the oldest one of Daddy’s— he had, Daddy had two brothers and five sisters, Daddy had. Mmhm. And I knowed all of them. Yeah. All they children, and all them. Come up kind of hard like we do, and…

	M:	So what about your mother’s parents? What were their names? The Dyes. C:	David Dye and Sophie Dye.

	M:	Do you know Sophie’s maiden name, by any chance? C:	I think she was a Newsome. She was a Newsome.

	M:	Okay. And so were they from White Springs, too, or is that just where they raised your mother?

	C:	I don’t believe they’re from White Springs. But—now, I know they weren’t, but we talked about that here the other day, that we should have wrote down all that





before all them—because that was my cousin, asking where they came from at. And I say, “We should really talk about our history, too.” But we should have wrote down the history, because we would know. But we didn’t write it down, so now, all the sisters is gone, and all the brothers is gone but one, and he’s so out there, so he don’t know nothing. So therefore, we don’t know too much about—I don’t know too much about that kind of thing. Mmhm. [Inaudible 51:46], talked of that yesterday.

	M:	So you must have grown up thinking of Lake City—or out that way, toward Lake City—as home, right?

	C:	No, I call White Springs home.



	M:	So you thought White Springs was home, still.



	C:	I call White Springs home, because I just was over there coming up in childhood.



As soon as I got of age, Momma let me come stay with her brother. Named Horace Dye. That was my momma’s brother and his wife called Mrs. Lizzy. Like I said, there was a house full of us. And she let me come stay with her here, and that’s where I got married, in White Springs. Must have been—now, this what I call home, is White Springs. Now, I know about, you know, what I know about is White Springs. And I was still a young child when I left Columbia County and come to Hamilton, and to White Springs.

	M:	So how did you meet your husband?



	C:	Well, I was to my uncle’s. [Laughter] I was to my uncle’s, and he kept—you know, he was working on a farm. He kept walking by. He kept on walking by. And so I never would talk with him. And so finally, one day, I decide to talk. And I told





him I didn’t want no boyfriend. And I said I want a husband. And if he don’t want no wife, he don’t want talk with me. So he kept walking. So finally, I went and talk with him. Finally. And we was talking, you know, from one thing to another. We found out we kind of likeded one another. So, finally, we was dating. Just longer and longer, just from one thing to the other, and then finally we decided to get married. And we got married 29th day of March. We got married, and we come back right then and stayed to my uncle’s, right there with him, about two years, I think, before we had our little house there. So we move out there ourselves, and we stayed in a little—little wooden shack, that’s what I call it, until we get this house here. And so he got there working, making a little money. My husband, he started, let me see, what he started doing first: working on the state road. He started working on the state road. And he got to making a little money, and he still wasn’t making enough for us to try to buy no land and build no house. And so, then, he left the state road, and worked a sawmill called Southern Woods, there. And that was pretty—no it didn’t. He first went to Daniel’s. And Daniel, that’s where Daddy was. And so, Daniels started the same way he did with Daddy. And so he stayed, it might have been a month. So he walked to work.

And then he started to—then he left, then he went to Southern Woods. That was a pretty good sawmill years ago. They had all the stuff, you know, like there’s supposed to have been. And he stayed there eleven years. [Inaudible 55:57] Southern woods and my husband. In eleven years, we started trying to save a little money to buy us some land and build us a house. Before he left there, we started on the house, before he left Southern Woods. But when he started PCS,





now that one, he started Occidental then. But they just named it PCS. But they started him out to there, and he wanted to go to Occidental, but they didn’t let him go nowhere. And so I was scared while they was mining, you know, all these old mines all over the place caving in. I said, “Don’t! I don’t want you to go there! Because you could get caved on and never come back or something like that.” So he stayed away two years after it started. And he [inaudible] me, and he went on out there. And that’s where he worked. He made his thirty years out there. Mmhm. And he worked right there at PCS. And we built this house and everything, and we raised our kids. He workeded thirty years out there. He retired. When he passed, he’d been retired—he retired the same year we bought that car. What the last year that they made these car called “Roadmasters”?

What year that was?



	M:	Oh!



	C:	I know it good, and I can’t even think right now. But that’s the year we bought the car, he retired. Mmhm. And that was the last year they made the Roadmasters. That’s a Roadmaster there. The last year they made it. He rattled the soul, ‘cause he ride a lot. Because he bought the car, and even bought that truck right there. He bought that truck in front just before he died, out there. See the truck out there in front?

	M:	Oh, yeah.



	C:	That’s his truck. That’s his, Mmhm. And he retired that year, but I don’t know why I can’t think of it. I know what year he retired and everything, but I can’t think of it.





Like I say, he bought that car because that’s the year he retired. And that was the last year they made the Roadmasters.

	M:	So how did he know how to build the house? Did he get help from anyone, or did he just—?

	C:	Yeah, this old guy who stayed right over there in that little house—you see it when you come up here? And he dead, now, too. And there’s a trailer, but got the house still sitting there. And he showed him how to cut the rafters, and everything, but now, he’s added a porch on there. A long time, I think, after we got the house built. But now, he had a block man came in and laid the blocks. A block man came in and laid the blocks. That’s how we get that together, as we had to grow. So we paved it all up here, put in the blocks. And then he bought a house—his old house. And this old man over there showed him how to cut the rafters and everything. And that’s what I mean, that’s how we got it built like that. But I can’t remember just how the old man showed him how to fix the rooms and everything. The bathroom [inaudible 1:00:15] got everything in there, closer to the house. But we had it remodeled and everything on the inside since then. That was long time ago. And he, Mmhm. He did like that now. But you know, exactly how, I don’t know. [Laughter] Because I wasn’t around when—I know he built it by people showing him how to do different things. And he did a contractor to came in. You know, we got enough money after working at PCS. He worked conning to Sunday, he work all the time. That one she got for it. Worked all the time. And he paid for the house as we went. We got through with the house, we moved in the house, and it was paid for. Mmhm. Like that. Just exactly how, I





don’t really know now, but I know he did it! [Laughter] I know that! And I know there were peoples helping him. Now, the block give him more than that, because he had to work for that. But they was the other peoples, and they knowed a lot of stuff. And they showed him how to do the stuff. But he did the [inaudible 1:01:32] work by hisself. But them sure come and show him, they was there.

	M:	So are most of the houses around here houses that the same people built? Is that how it worked around here? Or is this just—did most people build their houses, or was this something you guys were doing kind of—?

C:  Well, no, I think most people mostly—maybe some, some of them built the house, but most of them, you know, had they houses built and everything. Mmhm.

M:   And they just moved in it.



	C:	They moved in, they had to have it—most of them, now. This guy down there. I know a [inaudible 1:02:13] like that. But most of them just like my children. Then since they got grown, they had the houses built, and contractors come and build their houses and everything. Because all my children own they own place. They didn’t do it themselves, you see.

	M:	Okay. Did you have electricity when you first moved in, or was that something you put in later?

	C:	Oh, no. We had everything. It was a lot different. When we was home, now, we didn’t have none of that. But after I got married, we had all of that. Mmhm. After I got married. Well, I have to say, it was a pretty good life even after I got married.





Which you know, I always am thankful for the Lord. But we raised all our kids. Put them all through high school. Some college, now. We had two to go to, I’d say, five or six years college. The oldest one, like I say, she done went all the way through college, and she taught school for thirty-five years. Thirty tears taught school and then she had five more years until she taught school thirty-five years. She’s just retired. And the other one, she done went to school so long, and she was a para. I know that was the helper, teacher’ helper. But they call them a para now. But they a teacher’s helper, that’s what she is. And where does she come and there’s one of one? She work the daycare. That level you see walk out of here. [Inaudible 1:04:26] PCS, see my house again. And the other one, he’s an officer at the boys’ home, I call it. Where they put the bad boys, and he’s an officer there. And then my baby, my baby, he done went to the police.

And so, but he promoted now. To something else, now. What is that? Detective, see, that what it is. That’s what he is now. I don’t think he want me to talk about it, so I’ll leave it alone. And I would say police or anything like that. But that’s what he is. That’s the David, he been there for the last five years. Of course, the oldest, the next one, they could done retire, but he’s not old enough to retire. And the other one. And I think he say he got two more years before he retire from a officer. And I had my baby save me a seat when he retired. I know he—when he retire, he going sell his home in Tampa and come up here and get him a house out in the country, out from the park. See, we own land out there. It seem he coming over and build him a house, home. Whenever he retire. Shouldn’t be too





long from now. Because I know them been over ten years. Something else before it.

	M:	So was it easy for you to feel like White Springs was your home?



	C:	Oh, yeah. Uh-huh. Yeah, it was after—before I got grown, I was over in that area, and since I got grown, I been here all my days. So this home. It is home. And see, me and my husband, when we first got married, I already joined the church that he was in. And the church that—and right after we joined the church, we got him and another older deacon, that sometime we were coming to scoot, and separated, and he built another church—founded, I mean, bought land and built another church for up around on there. And so we have a fine church now.

Yep. And my husband and I, and the other people before he did as wife, was the founders of my—and I’m the only founder of that church that living now! That really founded, was one of the founders of the church. I’m the only one left, because all the rest of them’s dead that was the founder of the church.

	M:	What’s the name of that church? C:	New Jerusalem Baptist Church. M:	New Jerusalem Baptist. Okay.

	C:	Mmhm. He was the founder of that church.



	M:	Wow. So that—just to backtrack real quick, did you go to a church when you were growing up out there in the woods, or were you two far away from things?

	C:	Yeah. No, we walked to church, I said by the fort church—the church was where we went to school at first. I remember that. And we had school at that church. And we walked to the church, because that was Fallen Creek Baptist





Church. But you know, I didn’t know that then. That was Fallen Creek Baptist Church. We children, and Momma, and Daddy, we walked to the church. But I thought that’s a little ways. Until they go to Lake City, that was a little ways walking. But we walked there every Sunday morning! I guess that’s why right now, I don’t feel right if I don’t get up and go to Sunday school Sunday morning, because that’s the way I was raised up in Sunday school. I love church and everything, but I love to go to Sunday school and to get that Bible class. I love that. My daughter this time upset me because—the one you seen just a while ago, because, now, since I quit driving, she come carry me. She say, “Momma, I need to rest sometime. I work five days of the week! I got to clean the house Saturday, and get up every Sunday morning and go somewhere else!” [Laughter] But she come carry me anyway. Because I quit—would like I good driving range, but I quit driving because this old left leg, after I broke this here, and rolled this around, the doctor said when the left one I broke, and was depending on this right one, it got where it don’t want to move sometimes. I got scared and quit driving! [Laughter] Because I’m saying, I don’t want to mess around and hit somebody hurt somebody else or kill myself because of this. So I quit driving then. The children were glad when I quit driving. She goes, “Momma, it’s too dangerous! Like, you move your leg in there.” What if I want to take off real fast, or stop—got to stop all at once. And I just can’t pick up these legs up and stop it. And so I quit driving in the car. And she come and take me to Sunday school every single morning. Mmhm. And like, in the morning, now, I’m going to get up and go to church and cook for the church. I’m supposed to be cooking





right now! Doing some dessert. Because, see, I only cook the dessert on Saturday at the house, and Sunday morning—and get all of those stuff ready Saturday night, so the morning all I do is get up and go to church and cook. You know? But I’ll get it done.

M:  I’d better not take up too much more of your time, I guess! Is there anything else you could say about just what it was like to found that church? What went into it? What did you have to—?

	C:	Well, we founded the church. At first, we bought the land. I remember that, we bought the land. My husband and then others, it was about five or six more. Now let me see, now, Odean Cooks, Arnold Scipio, Clayton Newsome, they were one of the founders here. And all of the—like I said, all of them dead. Even that and my husband, Odean Cooks. But I was the wife, and all them had wives. I’m trying to think, there was another one… Annette Falmer. I know, it seem like it was, now, but I’m not sure. There was somebody else. I know it was Clayton, and Arnold Scipio. And Odean Cooks. Margaret Newsome. She was an older lady. She was another founder of that church. Then, after we bought the land, then we started on the blocks and things. They paid for that. After they paid for that, then they put the top on it. And I think it was Theola Jones was another one, too, another founder.

	M:	Theola Jones.



C:   Theola Jones, Mmhm. And the church just where it is now. And at that time, all of us through that door come to there two years ago. I always walked to the park in May. Right there, that park down there, and I cooked, now. See, this is





why they know so much about my cooking. Because I cooked a lots. And we worked three days down there; we used to have fun down there. Just near function, out near the park. And that’s where I would cook. And every year, that money would go to that church. Every year. All but the last two years that I did it. And I give it all to the church today. And that was some of the helping what the members didn’t get, that hope. Put the chair twenties out there now, Mmhm.

And so I still cook for the church. And cook for different peoples, too. You know, we have a lot of members who do a lot of cooking for the church, too. But I do a lots of it on my own, in my age.

M:  That’s got to be very rewarding. C:  Yeah.

	M:	Sounds like people enjoy it. If I might ask, so is there anything you can tell me about the Emancipation Day celebrations that they carry on around here? Were they doing those the whole time you’ve been living here?

	C:	What do you—



	M:	In May, the festival.



	C:	Oh, yeah, yeah! They been doing that for, oh, so many years! Look back on the paper now. I’ve got some paper around here somewhere or another. Yeah. They been doing that as soon as they have a church. Church, they call it “boosters,” the church boosters, and peoples sets up their own, you see. And I always went for the church, I was always was with the church boosters. And whatever I did, I did it for the church. And they been doing that, oh, at least, over thirty-five years, I know. Because I been, I did it about that long, myself. Been





doing it for a long time. But every year, in May, the last of May. It be three days down there. And so, I quit two years ago, because I’m just a little bit too old to do all of that cooking and that. But they still wanted me to do it, because last year they called me to see if I’m coming out. I wasn’t able to do all of that cooking, now. And I know they wanted it, now, because as fast as I would cook it, they would eat it. As fast as I could cook it, until, after I broke my hip, I cooked at home and carried it down there. And as fast as I could set it down, now. And I guess you might see that big pot. You might not can see it. Right over there, there’s a big pot right over there. By the refrigerator.

	M:	Oh, yeah. That roasting pot there.



	C:	No, it’s on the other side. Walk over on the other side of the refrigerator, you’ll see it.

	M:	Okay.



	C:	There are those big pots in there. Them the kind of pots that I’ll use. Because I got them in the room. No, on the other side of that. See that silver pot sitting right there?

	M:	Oh, this guy!



	C:	That’s the kind of pots that I have to use. And I cook peas, greens—I’m going to say the vegetables I cook are peas, greens, okra and tomatoes, and corn.

There’s okra and tomatoes, and corn.



	M:	Oh, man!



	C:	And I have them, now I’ve got pots for that now, but I’ve got them all out, packed them in the room back there. But different kind of pots. That’s why I got two of the





handleless pots. And fix that stuff. And a lot of it’s still warm, and I know it’s still warm. That’s how I cook it to eat. And I cook dessert: pound cakes, pecan pies, and sweet potato pies. About that big around, a sweet potato pie? I ended up cooking, and selling and cooking pound cakes a week ahead of time, and sweet potato pies, potato pies, I cook them as fast as I can cook it in the stove there. And we want the summer, because I mostly cook three hundred some a day, so you know I’m going to be moving! Just as fast as I was keeping could turn around, they’d be gone! And pound cakes, I cook them by the week, and save them. And as fast as I can slice them, sit it there, slice them, sit it there; they would eat it. Mmhm. They’d be gone. The fastest I—I had to cook three dinners with them pots right there. Them-sized pots. I had one done already at eleven forty-five, and before they get to serving that, they calling for another one. And so they’ll be, there’d be just too much ordered, that’s why I had to stop. I decided to quit that. And so, none of the rest of the church members don’t want to take it on, so they just let it go. And so, anybody got it who want it. Mmhm.

Because they didn’t know who all want to feature it, but they still want me to do it, now. Not happening. Too old for that now [Laughter].

	M:	That’s a lot.



C:  I’m not strong enough! Them pots is heavy! And… M:   You fill them up with some okra and stuff, and—

C:  Fill them up, and they—and I fills them up, too! Peas, and—the way I do it is— and we’ll bake chicken. They till them on baked chicken. And the way I kept it going as long as I did, you see: them collard greens, I would get them, cook





them, and put them in the freezer, see? And the chicken, I buy the chicken, bring it home, clean it and everything, wash it, and season it, put it in a bag, and put it in the freezer. Take it out as I got ready to cook it. Take it out.

	M:	Got a system down.



	C:	Uh-huh, and that’s the way I did it, Mmhm. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, May 1, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Anupa Kotipoyina, May 3, 2018

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019