AAHP 173A; Clayton; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 173A Cornelius Clayton Jr.

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Marna Weston on May 12, 2011 1 hour, 58 minutes | 59 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Cornelius Clayton, Jr. (b. October 19, 1943) discusses his family history, his upbringing and childhood education in Jacksonville, Johnson, Melrose, and Palatka, Florida in the 1950s and 1960s, including recollections about living in a segregated society in North Florida. He briefly discusses his career at Shands hospital following high school graduation as well as his two marriages. The bulk of the interview, however, concerns Clayton’s experience in the Vietnam War and with the

U.S. military from Dec 1966 to Dec 1968. He talks about the experience of war, including daily operations, near-death encounters, and witnessing the death of his best friend. Wounded in the jungles of Vietnam in November of 1967 by enemy shrapnel, Clayton describes suffering from PTSD, flashbacks and nightmares and converses about the inadequacy of the Veteran’s Administration in providing him assistance. He concludes by talking about his present life, work as a photographer, and connection to the church as well as how he is learning to talk about the painful memories of war.





[Keywords: African American History; Putnam County, Florida; US Military Veterans]









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 173A

Interviewer: Marna Weston Interviewee: Cornelius Clayton, Jr. Date: May 12, 2011



	W:	Alrighty, this is May 12th, 2011, this is Marna Weston interviewing Mr. Cornelius Clayton for the Sam Proctor Oral History Program in our conference room at Pugh Hall. Mr. Clayton, thank you very much for doing the interview today.

	C:	I’m glad I was invited.



	W:	Would you please spell your full name?



	C:	My name is Cornelius Clayton Jr., and it’s C-O-R-N-E-L-I-U-S, Clayton, C-L-A-Y- T-O-N, Jr., J-R.

	W:	Do you have a middle name? C:	None.

	W:	Okay, no middle name. That’s very interesting. [Laughter] And when and where were you born?

	C:	I was born in Jacksonville, October the 19th, 1943. W:	And who were your parents?

	C:	My parents both are deceased: Cornelius Clayton, and Ruby Lee Clayton. W:	Okay, and where were they from?

	C:	My mother was born in Keystone Heights—a place called Brooklyn—and my dad was born in a place called Branford, Florida.

	W:	Do you recall their dates of birth, either specifically or just kind of approximately, a month and a year?

	C:	Not my dad, but my mom cause she was a Pearl Harbor baby: December the 7th, 1922. But I don’t remember my dad’ date. And he was probably ten years older than her, but I don’t remember his date.







	W:	Do you have much memory of your grandparents?



	C:	My grandfather Ernest Megally, he was a well-driller and mechanic. I had three grandmothers, he was married three times back in the day.

	W:	Is this your grandfather on your mother or your dad’s side?



	C:	On my mother’s side. I don’t know my grandfather, never met him, on my dad’s side.

	W:	Do you know his name?



C:  No, no. Because we didn’t live near them, so I didn’t know a lot of people, my relatives, on his side, except a couple of—you know, one sister.

W:  Same thing with the grandmother? C:  Right.

W:  Okay. Well then, back to your mother’s side: what do you know of your grandparents’ parents? Do you have any information of them?

C:  No, I don’t. But a lady that studies genealogy, she did give me a paper listing those, which I didn’t know. But in the future, if you want me to get that paper, then I could give information off of that.

	W:	Oh, I’d love to talk to you about it. Do you have brother or sisters?



	C:	I have one brother who’s living in Atlanta, Georgia, but we were all born here in Jacksonville. He lives in Atlanta now. And I have one sister—my brother is sixty- nine.

	W:	And what’s his name?



C:  Ernest Vincent Clayton. And one sister, Evangeline Clayton, married twice, no middle name.







	W:	And are there any other brothers and sisters that maybe were born and no longer living?

	C:	There were two born, and I don’t have remembrance of them. They died. W:	You were very young?

	C:	Yeah.



	W:	Are you the youngest?



	C:	I am the youngest that’s living now, and I’m sixty-seven.



	W:	Did your mom and dad have brothers or sisters that lived around you? Were you surrounded with those uncles and aunts?

	C:	My mother had one brother, which was about my age. He was from a young mother, he was from the second time that my grandfather was married. Now, what was the other question?

	W:	Just saying, any other brothers and sisters. You know, aunts, uncles, from your parents.

	C:	I don’t think so.



	W:	So, none of your dad’s people, and just the one younger uncle who was kind of your age so you didn’t really call him your uncle, y’all were about the same age.

	C:	Right, we grew up like kids. Because she was like his mother, you know, by him being so young, same age as—he was about a year different, a year less than me. Which he’s deceased now. He was a well-driller, also, like my grandfather was.

	W:	So well-drilling was a popular occupation at that time. What do you know of well- drilling, what do they do?







	C:	Well, they drill wells for irrigation, they drill wells for homes. And back in the day, that was the way most people got they water. Because we didn’t have city water, but we now have city water. My grandfather was also a mechanic, back in the 1920s, so he was very mechanically-inclined. And my uncle, which was his son, came up working with him and learning mechanical skills also; which, he’s deceased, that uncle.

	W:	Did they pass any of those mechanical arts onto you? Are you a skilled mechanic today?

	C:	I was basic, but not what I call “skilled” that somebody could overhaul an engine like my granddaddy did or my uncle did. I can do basic stuff, but not major.

	W:	You could get by, change the oil and see what was going on.



	C:	Oh, take the starter off, take the alternator off; you know, do little minor things, but not like tearing the engine down and putting it back together—which, they could do that.

	W:	What are your earliest memories of childhood?



	C:	My earliest memories was before we moved from Jacksonville, which I was born in 1943, so this was—like, remembering when I was five years old, when we lived in Jacksonville, before we moved to Melrose in 1949. I remember the town a little bit, but not a whole lot. Because we used to go places with my dad, but that’s about—I didn’t go to school there, so there was no remembrance of schooling. Not in Jacksonville.

	W:	What part of Jacksonville did you live in?







	C:	The west side. As a matter of fact, there’s a place called Beaver Street viaduct.



We used to live in between a street called Canerow in Myrtle Avenue.



	W:	Now, you weren’t educated in Jacksonville, but you do have your early education. Where is the first place that you went to school?

	C:	First place I went to school was in a place called Putnam Hall, Florida. And that’s where I started when I was in the first grade, and went there a few years, and then they bused us to a place called Johnson, Florida, which was part of—I don’t know why they did this, but they bused us to another place called Johnson, which was probably only about maybe twelve miles. And went there a couple of years. Then they bused us back to Putnam Hall, where I went from probably the fourth grade to the eighth grade.

	W:	What was the name of the school in Putnam Hall that you went to? C:	It was called the Putnam Hall Elementary School.

	W:	Do you remember your first teachers there?



	C:	I won’t say the first, but I can remember the teachers that were there. One lady’ name was Ms. Victoria McNeal; Victoria Dawson. And my teacher that was teaching me the 7th and 8th grade, before I got promoted to the 9th, his name was Robert Allen, out of Palatka. The other two ladies are deceased, but Robert Allen, he is still living because he got out of college early, so he was probably teaching us when he was probably like twenty-two.

	W:	Where does he live now?



	C:	He lives in Palatka. Still reside there.



	W:	Do you remember the principal of the Putnam Hall school?







	C:	I forgot. But over at the school in Johnson, the principal was named Mr. Leroy Mullins. I think Ms. Victoria MacNeal got to be the principal in Putnam Hall.

	W:	Was it a small school? C:	Small school.

	W:	It’s like a first-to-fourth grade, and then fourth on— C:	It was—

	W:	—or first-to-third, and fourth-to-sixth.



	C:	It was first to eighth. But they built us a block school, which I’m talking about now, but before that block school, like when I was in the first grade, we was in a old wooden building, and that was back in the [19]50s. So, probably stayed in that wooden building from, probably from [19]50s to maybe [19]55.

	W:	Was it heated?



	C:	Yeah, with wood. We had to go out—



	W:	Students had to collect the wood? [Laughter]



	C:	Yeah, we had to go out and chop down trees and bring wood back. We had the old potbelly stove.

	W:	So, it was truly a one-room school house with the two halves.



	C:	Right, right. And a matter of fact, there was the church across the street, and some of the class had to be taught across the street in the classroom. So, it was like the school had two separate rooms. So, I guess they divided. And we had outhouses, back in the day. [Laughter]

	W:	Oh, you might have to explain that for the kids! What do you mean by an “outhouse?”







	C:	Back in the day, that’s one of them houses where you have to go out, and you got your toilet paper out there, and, you know.

	W:	With the half-moon on the door.



	C:	Well I don’t know whether we had a half-moon; we didn’t have time to worry about the moon.

	W:	[Laughter] Now, how did you get to school? C:	Okay, we were bused.

	W:	Okay, and how far did you live from the Putnam Hall school?



	C:	From the Putnam Hall school, we probably lived about eight miles. W:	Okay, but you didn’t have to walk.

	C:	No, we didn’t have to walk.



	W:	Okay, well that’s good. Let’s talk about the Johnson school for a second. You say Mr. Mullins was the principal.

	C:	Right.



	W:	What grades did you attend at Johnson? Johnson, I just want to make sure, that’s around Interlachen, probably a little bit south of there?

	C:	Yeah, yeah. It’s back towards Gainesville. That was a three separate room building, and I forgot how the grades was divided up. And I think it only went to maybe like—maybe like the sixth grade, I think.

	W:	Who were the teachers that you had over there?



	C:	A lady named Ms. Whitford. I can’t think of her first name right now, that’s her last name. She deceased. And a lady name Ms. Johnson, she deceased. And Mr.







Mullen, all three of those are deceased. I can’t think of what Ms. Whitford’ first name is right now, and I can’t think of what Ms. Johnson’ first name was.

	W:	Did you have a favorite subject when you were at Johnson?



	C:	Lunch. [Laughter] No, scratch that from the record, I’m just—. No, I didn’t. I can’t remember me having a favorite subject. Not in the lower grades.

	W:	A favorite teacher?



	C:	Not in the early—not from maybe first through eighth, maybe, I don’t think.



	W:	You described the school at Johnson as having three rooms. Can you tell a little bit more about the structure? What was the building like? Where was it located?

	C:	It was a old wooden building, and I think we probably had a wood stove back during the day—I think, I can’t quite remember. Because this other school in Putnam, it had a wood stove. We might not have had a wood stove—I don’t recall going out to the woods and getting wood to warm us up in the wintertime. And plus, outside, we had our little P.E. area to go out and play. They take you out there and play for a while.

	W:	Did you leave Johnson because they closed the school? You mentioned that you started at Putnam Hall, then you went to Johnson, and they brought you back to Putnam Hall. Why did you have to leave the school at Johnson?

	C:	I really don’t know the reason why even we went from Putnam Hall to Johnson. And then we went back, because really we would normally have went to Putnam Hall and stayed there until we finished eighth grade, so I really don’t know what the reason was, unless the attendance was low, and they shift some of us that way. I really don’t know.







	W:	Well, you came back to Putnam Hall. C:	Mmhm.

	W:	And you finished your grammar education there? C:	Right. Up to eighth grade.

	W:	Up to eighth grade. And then where did you go to school?



	C:	From there to Central Academy in Palatka. That was in 1960. W:	Okay. And who was the principal of Central Academy?

	C:	Mr. Fred R. Brooks.



	W:	Now, you said that with some—



	C:	It came right on out. And was a nice guy. Mr. Mullin, he’d bust your hide. You won’t forget him, either. That’s when they could beat you then. I mean, they could strap you then.

	W:	Oh now, don’t tell me you were strapped.



	C:	Oh yeah! You could get a beating back in the day. And HRS wasn’t nowhere around! [Laughter] But you know, it made better—I know they protecting people, but it made better kids. Not that I was a bad kid, I wasn’t a bad kid, but there was some that it made them change their way about some things. When they could discipline them.

	W:	What was about Mr. Brooks that you admire? Because you said that with an air of reverence that you admired him, it seemed.

	C:	Well, I’ve never had to really—I never had a problem that I had to go to him, or was sent to him by one of the teachers. But he was just, I’ll say, a cool principal.







If he needed to talk to somebody, and I probably heard him to talk to people, you know, he was not irrational. He was just talking at a normal level, you know?

	W:	What about physically? Was he a large man, a short man? What was his demeanor?

	C:	He was a medium build man. As a matter of fact, when I got promoted to the ninth grade, I guess I was the teacher’s pet. I used to go and tote the books in, you know just in time for school to come in. So she was my home sponsor from ninth through twelfth.

	W:	Who’s that she?



	C:	Ms. Rachel Williams, Rachel D. Williams. She deceased. And we’d always report there the first thing in the morning. And then we would leave there, they would check the row for everybody that’s present, and then you would go to your various classes. Everybody wasn’t going to the same class at the same time, you know. Somebody might be going to PT, somebody might be going to math, somebody might be going to English. In the afternoon, you would report there.

The wanted to make sure that same people that checked in in the morning checked out in the afternoon, unless somebody got sick and they parents came and got them, something like that. And I really enjoyed high school. I didn’t play sports because I wasn’t big enough to be playing sports. I only weighed a little over a hundred pounds, so I didn’t do no sports. I did take up woodworking while I was there; enjoyed that. My two teachers there was, the first one was Mr. Major. I can’t think of his first name. He taught—you’d have woodworking class, and you’d have a related math class, related to woodworking, for measurements







when you doing woodworking stuff. And the last teacher in the woodworking was a guy named Mr. Ford, can’t think of his first name. But he was a nice teacher.

They had three trades there. You could take up brickmason, or you could take up tailoring, and I chose woodworking.

	W:	Were you involved in any other clubs or organizations when you were in school? C:	I was vice president of the senior class, but I wasn’t in all of these different clubs.

I don’t know why. I don’t know, I never really had an interest, I guess.



	W:	Did you attend the games or sporting events?



	C:	Oh yeah, we had ball games—I mean football games down there, and every chance I got, had the opportunity to go. I used to like to go to the Homecoming parades. [phone beep] And as a matter of fact—and if you need to make a call—

	W:	Oh no, not at all. In fact, I’m turning it off. I thought I would use it to keep track of the time, but it’s making too much noise. [Laughter]

	C:	It’s not bothering me.



	W:	It’s bothering me! [Laughter]



	C:	Okay. Well, we had parades here. And as a matter of fact, I got some pictures when I was in high school and a few pictures from the parade, so that had to be in the [19]50s, closer to the [19]60s.

	W:	Who did you all play, for—who were your rivals, your opponents? C:	Let’s see.

	W:	Did you play Lincoln High, in Gainesville?



	C:	Let me see, did they play Lincoln? I think they played Lincoln, and maybe the Alachua—







	W:	So, Mebane.



	C:	Yeah, Woodbine, Georgia football team. And Crescent City. W:	Play a team in Starke?

	C:	Bradford. What were they, Tornadoes? W:	Mmhm.

	C:	I can’t quite remember all the different people that they played. We had a pretty good baseball team, too. I mean, I didn’t play baseball, but—. We had basketball, baseball, football. I don’t think they had no tennis. I guess Tiger Woods come in and broke the mold on that. [Laughter] I never cared about golf—well, it’s golf, I said tennis. I never cared about tennis either. I’m glad we got lot of people that made it big in those areas, but I just never had interest back in the day.

	W:	So you came to your senior year. Did you go to prom? C:	Oh course!

	W:	What was it like, and who did you take? C:	I taken a lady from Putnam Hall.

	W:	You recall her name?



	C:	Her name was Evelyn Hayes at the time; she’s Evelyn Williams now. And our band was the D&B band, the deaf and—out of—

	W:	Florida Deaf and Blind?



	C:	Yeah, out of St. Augustine. Had a good time.



	W:	How did you get to the prom? Did you drive? Did you go with friends together? C:	I drove.

	W:	You drove. What kind of car’d you have?







	C:	I think it was me and my brother’s car. It was, like, a [19]57—no, it might not have been that far, because I graduated in 1963, and this was---okay, [19]63, it was probably, what was it? Probably like a [19]50-something Chevrolet, I think.

	W:	But it was a good prom? C:	Yeah, it was a nice prom.

	W:	Okay. And then you had a graduation ceremony. And all your friends were there?



	C:	Had graduation ceremony in 1963. It was very nice. And before I got out of high school, I guess I might as well say this, a young lady that I was dating—I’m going say as my dentist said: I had an “oops” at a young age. So, she got pregnant, and she was going back to school. I mean, and when I got out of school—of course, back in the day, if you’re pregnant, young lady—

	W:	You got married.



	C:	Hello! Yes, you got married to one another. So, we did get married. W:	What was her name?

	C:	Her name was Altora Johnson—no, Altora Strickland. This is not the one today.

	W:	But this is not the same woman you went to the prom with?



	C:	No, no, no, no, no. No, she was just a friend. She wasn’t even my girlfriend, just somebody I carried. So, anyway.

	W:	So, the marriage didn’t take.



	C:	No, we—well, along came another child. That’s when we got married, with the second one, because she was going to go back to school. But we were married from, let’s see, from [19]63 to maybe [19]66. No, it didn’t—we were young, and







there was a lot of problems, mother in law problems, stuff. We didn’t make it, so we separated.

	W:	Now, two children, what were their names?



	C:	Cornelius Frederick Clayton and Cassandra Faye Clayton. W:	Where are they?

	C:	My daughter live here in Gainesville. My son, he’s been in the military. I would imagine he’s probably got pretty close to thirty years in. He’s still in.

	W:	What branch of the Service?



	C:	He’s in the army. He was ROTC and Army Reserve. He went to UF. I don’t think he finished his degree there, but he was doing ROTC and Army Reserve. But then, when he went in Service, he went in as an enlisted man instead of an officer. But he’s done well. I would imagine he’s probably at the top that he can be at his rank, probably sergeant commander.

	W:	Now you were in the services as well. I haven’t talked to you about how you got there yet, but I want to back up to 1963 for just a second. Because you were in high school when all these changes were taking place with the Civil Rights Movement: when the lunch counters started, and the Freedom Rides. Did you hear about those things? And what did you and your friends talk about when those things were going on?

	C:	I heard about it, but I was never involved in it, because where I was, we didn’t have any—like, in Melrose, we didn’t have anything going on like that. You know?

	W:	But you knew about St. Augustine, and Dr. King, and other stuff on TV?







	C:	Oh yeah. As a matter of fact, I was working at Shands when Dr. King got killed.



The only—well, maybe I’ll wait ‘til you get to the Service part.



	W:	You can tell that; I’m always interested in where people were when important events happened. So, what were you doing when you heard about the fact that he was killed?

	C:	Well, I was working at Shands.



	W:	Okay, so you were actually working that day.



	C:	Yeah. I was working that day when I heard it over the radio. W:	It just came out over radio?

	C:	Mmhm.



	W:	Okay. And what happened around you? Did people stop? How did you feel?



What were people doing when you heard?



	C:	Well probably everybody probably didn’t even know about it. I’m pretty sure it was passed on from one person to the other, you know, once people heard it. But it was a work day. So, it wasn’t like we somewhere and got a group of people saying, “Well, Dr. King got killed.” Well, wait a minute, hold it. No, I’m backing up. I need to back up a little bit on that. I said—I’m sorry, I was thinking about when

J.F. Kennedy got killed.



	W:	Kennedy, okay. Yeah, because we were talking about the [19]60s. Okay. Early [19]60s.

	C:	Okay, I’m sorry. I put King there, but King was when I came back from Vietnam.



	W:	Okay. Well, let’s go to Kennedy for a second. Where were you when you heard the President got killed?







	C:	I was working at Shands. I misplaced. I put Martin Luther King there, but wasn’t King, it was J.F. Kennedy got killed.

	W:	So, it was around Thanksgiving time. And I can imagine that it probably—maybe it didn’t resonate real hard, because it was the South, but—.

	C:	Right, right. I mean, it was a bad tragedy that happened, because I took him as a nice man. And sometimes nice people, they get taken out. And so I assume it happened because he was for what was right and equal for everybody.

	W:	Did you feel the same way about President Johnson? He went from vice president to president. What were your thoughts about Johnson?

	C:	What years was that?



	W:	That would have been, end of November 1963 until 1968, he was president.



	C:	Well actually, I didn’t really listen to the news that much, and I really wasn’t into politics, so I really don’t know a whole lot, you know, about Johnson. Now, I’m a news person, I’m a paper reader. If I catch it on the news—but I like to read about what’s going on. But back in the day, I wasn’t too interested in the media that way.

	W:	When you graduated from high school, what did you do? Did you get a job? Is that when you went to the Service? Or what happened immediately after you graduated?

	C:	Okay, when I graduated from school, of course I got married. And I got a job at Shands back in 1963, and I worked there prior to getting drafted.

	W:	Oh, you were drafted. C:	Yeah.







	W:	What were your duties at Shands before you were drafted? What were you doing there?

	C:	Well, I started out working in the dietary department, helping out in the kitchen. And then I transferred to the housekeeping department, doing janitorial work. And I got drafted. So I went in the Service. When I came back, I went to work in Central Sterile Supplies, sterilizing items. And then I transferred over to—I’m bouncing back and forth—and then I transferred to pharmacy. So my last job I held, I was a pharmacy technician. And that was prior to [19]72.

	W:	Okay, yeah, that is kind of a gap from [19]63 to [19]72. How long were you in the Service?

	C:	I was in the Service for two years. W:	Okay. And what years were those?

	C:	1966—December [19]66 to December [19]68.



	W:	Okay, well that was during a hot time, you know—! [Laughter] C:	Yeah, it was hot.

	W:	You didn’t pick the slow period. You right in the middle of when it happened!



	C:	Me and my wife separated in May of [19]66 and Uncle Sam jumped on my back in September [19]66, because I never been drafted because I had two kids and I was married. So I was, like, exempt. But they still—

	W:	They kept track of you.



	C:	Yeah. And they still considered that I was married and had two kids, but during that time the war was going on. I still got drafted.







	W:	So, you got divorced and they said, “Okay, your number come up.” Do you remember having to go down and register for the Selective Service?

	C:	Oh yeah.



	W:	What happened that day? What was that day like?



	C:	I mean, I had already registered. You had to register when you become eighteen.



I was just classified as, what was I classified as? I was classified as where they say I wasn’t going to be called, because of married and two kids. I forgot what they call it.

	W:	You were single head of household, is what they call you. You know, you got a family you were supporting.

	C:	Right, but I forgot what they call it when they exempt you.



	W:	Yeah, I know. Because if you can’t do it all, then you’re a 4-F and they have different letters and numbers for it.

	C:	I must have been a 4-F. I was something, I done forgot. I can’t remember what it was. But after I separate, then that’s when they started working on me, you know? I had never been examined. So I was examined in September of [19]60— [19]67? So I had to be examined September of [19]66, because I got inducted into the Service in December of [19]66.

	W:	And where were you inducted at? C:	I was inducted in Jacksonville.

	W:	Okay. And where did you go and get your training?



	C:	I went to Fort Gordon for basic training in Georgia, and advanced infantry training in Fort Jackson, South Carolina.







	W:	And what was your job that you were given?



	C:	I was trained for mortars, but I was also trained as a infantryman. And I had two weeks home after finishing advanced training, and shipped to Vietnam, which my route was through Fort Dix, New Jersey, and then on over to Vietnam, and that was in 1967.

	W:	Okay, two quick questions then: what did you do for the two weeks after you got your assignment, before you left for Fort Dix? And were you any good at your job with the mortars?

	C:	Well, you know, you just get a little basic of this and basic of that. Week five, we trained—I mean, we qualified. And you said, what did I do before I—

	W:	For that two weeks.



	C:	—for that two weeks? As a matter of fact, I have a picture in that DVD where I came home and had like maybe two weeks, so I had a good time. I went to some of my favorite juke joints that night, and had a good time. I didn’t drink. So. But I did try to dance.

	W:	And you had your uniform.



	C:	Yeah, so I enjoyed my family for those two weeks before I went over. W:	The day that you left, the final day, what was that day like?

	C:	Okay, it was a nice day. We left out of Jacksonville, and they stopped us by— they took us to a Morrison restaurant. And you know, I really didn’t know what was going on with the war, because I was out there having a good time. I wasn’t paying no attention to the news or nothing, because I really didn’t know how bad







it was over there. So, I mean, I wasn’t really feeling bad—wait a minute, back me up. Okay, were you speaking of when I was getting ready to go to Vietnam?

	W:	I’m saying you had two weeks, and then your two weeks is done, and then that last day before you had to go to Fort Dix and then get shipped to Vietnam, what did you go on that day? You said you spent time with your family—

	C:	Right.



	W:	Went to Morrison’s. C:	Yeah. And—

	W:	Still with your family, before you meet with the Army people. C:	Tight, right, right.

	W:	Did you see your brothers, your mom? Did you see your dad?



	C:	Well, my brother, I think he was in Boston. He lived in Boston for a long time before he moved back. So I only seen my immediate family, like my grandmomma, my granddaddy, my mom, and probably my sister. I don’t think I—

	W:	You say anything to your kids before you left?



	C:	They were small; I probably did. ‘Course, during that time, they, in 1966, they was probably only like, maybe four and five, or four and three. So I’m pretty sure I seen them before—

	W:	But you just saw them. C:	Yeah, right.

	W:	Okay. That was good. Okay. So, were you, in your mind—you said you didn’t really know about what was going on over there; do you think that you were— were you prepared for what was going to happen?







	C:	No, because I didn’t know what was going on. Except there was a war going on. W:	Okay, so you did know there was a war going on.

	C:	So, I had no feelings or nothing, or worrying about anything, because I didn’t know what it was like.

	W:	You hadn’t seen nothing to be scared of yet? C:	No.

	W:	Okay. A couple of more pre-, before we talk about what happened when you got over there questions: what was living in North Florida like as a Black man at that time? I mean, were there—what I’m asking is, were there things that you didn’t do because “you do not do those things,” were there places where you were not treated like you would’ve wanted to be treated, or did you feel that everything was pretty much okay?

	C:	You talking about where I lived? W:	Yeah. In North Florida.

	C:	Pretty much, because I really haven’t lived anywhere else except where I live.



Well, there was a little bit different; not violent. There was separation. There was restaurants that we could not go in the front door. We could go to the back door and get our hamburger.

	W:	What were the names of some of those restaurants? C:	One restaurant was called Kelly’s. Kelly’s Restaurant. W:	In Melrose, or Palatka?

	C:	In Melrose.



	W:	Okay.







	C:	And this had to be, like, in the [19]50s. W:	Okay.

	C:	And there was a service station which you had to go to the side door and get what you wanted. It was like a country store.

	W:	What was the name of that place? C:	It was called Chippinni’s.

	W:	Chippinni?



	C:	Yeah. C-H-I-P-P-I-N-N-I.



	W:	Okay.



	C:	There the bathrooms was on the back. It was not a outhouse, a real bathroom, but on one door says “Colored,” and one door says “White.” And there was a mechanic shop there. You could go in the front and pay for your mechanic work, but on the side was the bathroom; it said “Colored.” One said “Colored” and one said “White.” But we had no violence around there, as far as between the Blacks and the Whites. And back in the day, all the Blacks lived on one side of town. [Laughter]

	W:	Okay, and what side was that?



	C:	And that was on the east side. I ain’t talking about the Eastside of Gainesville.



East side of Melrose, which is Highway 26 going east to the red light.



	W:	And was there a railroad tracks separating the east and the west side of town?



	C:	No, there was a railroad track, but it was before my time. And it had to be way back, probably like in the [19]20s or [19]30s, in the historic times. But now, all cultures are living everywhere, and thank God for the change. We went places,







but like I said, we didn’t have any violence. But you know, you would not go— like, if it was a White tavern, that somebody might just say a racist name.

	W:	You just avoided those places?



	C:	Yeah. Right. There was only one place back in the day that—. And that would have been a place called Lee’s bar. I mean, it’s different now, you know.

	W:	Well, in some places it’s different; in some places, it’s still the same. C:	Yeah. Yeah. Right.

	W:	Okay. So, you’re in Jacksonville in 1966, December: you’re on your way to Fort Dix. What happened at Fort Dix when you got there, before they shipped you out? Was it more orientation, or did you just get on a boat and they sent you.

	C:	More orientation. They flew us over. It was more orientation, I guess, about probably what to expect going over there and telling us about the country.

	W:	What did they tell you?



	C:	They probably told us very little. [Laughter] I don’t really remember what.



Because when we got over there, we had orientation—and we going back, what, forty years ago?

	W:	Do you remember your lieutenant, when you met him? Or actually, before him, do you remember your senior drill instructor? When you first got your training.

	C:	I remember him, but I can’t call his name right now.



	W:	Well, I’m sure you remember what you called him. What do you remember about him?

	C:	That if somebody did something wrong, everybody got punished. You might have had to lean down and do pushups, which somebody did do something. And every







time, like if we went to rifle range, every time we had a break, he would march us down the road and march back. Because what happened, one of the guys put shaving cream on the squad leader’s dust cover, and nobody—of course, I didn’t know who did it—nobody would tell who did it, so he punished the whole squad.

	W:	Everybody did it, yeah. And even if you had told, he’d’ve punished everybody anyway.

	C:	Yeah. Yeah. Right.



	W:	Okay, and when you got in country, where did you land, when you first got there.



	C:	We landed in a place called Bien Hoa. And then we were flown by helicopter to a place called Pleiku, back in May of 1967, and we got a in-country orientation there.

	W:	Okay. And that was probably the more serious one that you had. C:	Yes.

	W:	Was that by your commanding officer, or was that by the sergeant? C:	That was by a sergeant.

	W:	Okay, and what did he tell you?



	C:	I can’t quite remember exactly, but—



	W:	You’ve been dropped into the place! This is it. [Laughter]



	C:	Yeah. Well, it was secure and safe. Some people were coming back home, and we were coming in. So you got incoming and you got outgoing people. We didn’t stay there long before we were flown out in the jungles.

	W:	This was after Tet, right? Or is this before Tet? C:	No, this is in [19]67. I done forgot when Tet was.







	W:	I guess it was either New Year’s of [19]67 or New Year’s of [19]68. I think it was New Year’s of [19]67. So you might have got there after Tet.

	C:	Right. So, they issued our jungle fatigues, and our jungle boots—which, when I first got there, they were out of jungle boots, so I had to wear my old leather boots, which, that was rough out there. You know, climbing hills and stuff with old regular boots. And we got our packs, and I’m pretty sure they loaded us up with C-ration. So, flew us out, dropped us out in a secure place. And we used to go out on patrols—not the whole company. Somebody would stay in the back, secure a perimeter.

	W:	How many men were in a company?



	C:	Well, you’d have, like, A company, B company, C company, so you probably would have maybe a hundred guys.

	W:	Okay, and how many guys would go on a patrol? C:	Maybe like six or seven guys.

	W:	So, like a squad? C:	A squad, yeah.

	W:	Okay, a squad would go on patrol. And you mentioned C-rations. So, before you start telling the story a little more, could you describe what was in a C-ration?

What was that?



	C:	The C-ration was canned food. There was a biscuit in one. There was something they called “pork sausage,” which was slices. We also had C-40 heated up with this stuff you could blast up a tree; we didn’t blast trees, but you could use it to heat up the little can. And there was some kind of string bean and potatoes. And







you’d get some kind of cheese. Some of the stuff that didn’t taste good, you’d put some of the cheese in there and make it taste a little better. [Laughter] Like the old pork sausage didn’t taste good. And they would fly us out a hot meal. They’d try to fly us out a hot meal once a week, if it was safe and nothing going on. They definitely wouldn’t fly us nothing out if there was something going on.

	W:	What was a basic patrol like? You had six men going through the jungle; what would happen?

	C:	Well, they would send people in different directions. You would have a squad leader, which, he would be in command of the map. Most of the time, if we went out, we’d have to stay out overnight. Most of the time, we left that evening. We left before night, and we’d camp out, and we’d have a radio. And you’d keep in contact with the base out there in the jungles. And you really would—we slept on air mattresses when we were not on the patrol. Like, if we was back to a support base or something like that—or back where everybody’s at. I guess air mattress probably make noise if you twisting on it, or moving on it, or whatever. And into the morning, you pull—you don’t just go out there and sleep. Different people take turns pulling guard.

	W:	What was the reason they sent you all out there? I mean, the night coming, you go out—

	C:	Well, in case the enemy was trying to move at night. W:	So you were the perimeter watch, basically.

	C:	Yeah. But we was way out from our main perimeter where everybody is set up. W:	How far would they send you?







	C:	Maybe—just kind of guessing—they called them “clicks” over there, but I can’t go for clicks because I can’t remember how far a click is—but probably a mile, mile and a half.

	W:	Okay, so two, three clicks.



	C:	I can’t measure the clicks, because I never got into that. And well, when the night was over, then you’d get your gear and come on back to perimeter where you were set up before you left. But way they look at it, it’s safer—it ain’t safer. But it’s better for four, five people to be out there if the enemy was trying to move at night. It’s, the way the government look at it; i’s almost better for four, five people to get killed than a whole company if they were trying to move. You know, you got somebody here and somebody over there.

	W:	So you were the test. If you got blew up, they knew in that direction something bad was happening.

	C:	Right, right. Yeah. And we had a radio, so then the leader would get on the radio if something happened, but nothing ever happened where they had to call in artillery around us. Not while on patrol. It happened when we got hit.

	W:	Now, that’s something you knew how to do because you were with mortars. You could call in grid coordinates if you had to.

	C:	Well, I couldn’t, because I didn’t have that much—I mean, you did a quick thing stateside learning about the map and stuff, but the squad leader, he was like a sergeant, so he had probably been there a while. He had learned about the map, and talk about calling artillery in if we needed it.

	W:	And did you ever go out with a lieutenant, or was it always just a sergeant?







	C:	It was always a sergeant. Lieutenant always stayed back in the back. He’s over the whole setup, where they set up at night or whatever.

	W:	So we’ve talked a little bit—we’ve set it up, I want to go maybe a little more serious. Could you tell about the first time you were ever really scared? When did you really know, “Hey, this is Vietnam, and you can die”?

	C:	Okay, that was when—this is the first action that I had been into. W:	How long had you been in Vietnam?

	C:	I was over there about six and a half months. But prior to getting wounded in November of [19]67—let me back up a little bit—we had got into some battles, but there was no bodies found of the enemy. But in, see, maybe after over there three months—and it was a bad time to get over there, because they have a season, they call it the “monsoon season,” where it rains every day. And it might rain three or four times. You get wet, you dry out, you get wet, you dry out. And sometimes you get wet, you sleep cold, wet. But after we was set up, a squad went out. And I think it was probably, maybe six, seven, or eight of the people.

And I was back in the perimeter, so I didn’t go out. But the enemy—this is the first time that I thought it was all over—the enemy caught the squad just before they got back, and they ambushed them, killed all of them. And, you know, they had to call artillery in, which the enemy know the closer they are to us, the safer they are. So the artillery was coming in pretty close—not on us, they didn’t hit us. Sometimes people say they’ve gotten it, but I mean, you can drop it, say, a thousand feet out there, you know, and once it blow up, you know, a piece of shrapnel might come over your way. But none of us got hurt. So, that particular







incident, when things were over, they called in the helicopters so we could get our dead out. We always tried to get our dead out. We had about, I’d say maybe seven or eight people that got ambushed, that got killed. And we had to load them up—always used the term, we had to load them up like hogs, we had to stack them on top of each other, get our people. But you know, during that time, you don’t really feel probably what you should be feeling because of the emotions—and of course, these are your buddies and you want to get them out. You know, you don’t want to leave them behind anyway. That was a scary time.

	W:	Did you know those guys?



	C:	Well see, when you got three companies—say like A,B, and C—you don’t always know everybody, you know a lot of people that’s in your circle. Especially the guys that sleep in your tent. Maybe five guys sleeping in a hooch together, you know. Or if you’re pulling perimeter guard, you know them, but everybody you don’t really connect with. You see them, but you don’t know everybody.

	W:	But y’all were together, you just didn’t know them.



	C:	Right, right. But I think that was before I got wounded. That was the first incident where I just—I mean, it was very fearful, not knowing whether we going come out alive. And I’m pretty sure some of the enemy probably had ran after they ambushed them, but they were almost back to where we were set up.

	W:	Were you ever in a situation where the enemy infiltrated your lines and they were all around you? Okay, so you never had that.

	C:	No, not exactly. When I got wounded—and I might be stepping ahead in my talk—but when I got wounded in November of p19]67, they flew us up in a







helicopter, they flew us up to a place called Dac To, and that was in November [19]67. Okay, and then we got hit. Well, we went so far on convoy, and then after, when they dropped us somewhere, then the helicopters flew us on out in the jungles. You know, because I was in—I wasn’t in the central highland, where it’s flat land, it was more so hills and valleys and all this. So they drove so far, in a convoy, then the helicopters flew us on out in the jungles. And this was at Doc To, this was in 1967. Okay, the company got hit so hard, they had to pull the partial company out, our companies, and they put us in. And then, we got hit. We was going set up that night, and the enemy let us walk right down. They was out in the wood line somewhere. So we going set up that night. Just so happened the United States had had a airstrike on that hill, and we had a couple of big bomb craters up on that hill. So we was taking a break, going dig in at night, we always dig in and cut us some wood and fill sand bags in case we get mortared. But they opened fire on us, which they was at the foot of the hill. This was the worstest experience that I had. Because after they opened up on us, maybe thirty minutes later, the enemy dropped a couple of mortar rounds in on us. That’s what I was trained for. And they were directly on target. So I was just looking for them to— [thumping sound]. You know just, if they had dropped them up there, they’d have killed everything up there. But when the first round came in, it really scared me to death. I could partially see my buddy’ leg; he got blown to pieces. ‘Course, other people got killed, too.

	W:	What was his name?







	C:	He was from D.C. We called—right now I can’t think of his name, but we called him “D.C.” I mean, we were real tight. We shared things from State. You know, if somebody got some goodies, like candy, cookies or something from State, we always shared. And they dropped another round in. I didn’t realize that I was hit in my right shoulder, a small place in my left shoulder, buttocks, left eye. Small fragments that just—those are my biggest wounds. Can you see them?

	W:	Oh yeah, I definitely can see it.



	C:	And one, it’s kind of open. It got infected. When I got in the hospital, they had to pull the stitches and let it, you know—

	W:	So those are shrapnel wounds.



	C:	Yeah, shrapnel wounds. But when they dropped those two rounds, I just thought it was all over. And that was the only time that—we used to not hump. You know what I mean by “hump?” Carry the mortars out in the field. We didn’t. Mortar platoon would be set up somewhere—and every time you want to say something, you just go ahead on.

	W:	Go ahead, I’m getting my camera. I wanted to videotape a little bit, because you were just really telling a story. I was saying, “I need to get a picture of this!”

	C:	Oh, okay. Okay. Where—sometimes I lose my track of the battle. W:	[Laughter] You were talking about D.C. got hit.

	C:	Yeah, it blowed him to pieces. We had to set a mortar up in the bomb crater, because there was a guy, the enemy, that had—I don’t know whether they had a machine gun or not—but anyway, we had to set it up in that bomb crater, which, when you shoot that round up, it look like about the size of a pepsi cola bottle. It







look like it’s going up and coming straight back down on you. But actually, probably what really saved us from being destroyed by the enemy was—they wouldn’t let the gunships come in, but the jets did come in, and they dropped little cluster bombs at the base of the hill. And they also dropped canisters of napalm, because the enemy probably would have overran us. And the people that got wounded real bad—after everything had cooled down, no enemy around, the medevac came in and lowered a basket. And the guys that messed up real bad, they put them in the basket, and they drawed them up and took them down to a medic tent a little ways. Now, I got out. I don’t know how long it was, but I got out. I could sit in a swing, and they draw the swing up. They took me down into the medic tent. And they tag you. And they put us on a Chinook. And from the Chinook, they took us to a hospital in Qui Nhon, where they cleaned my wounds out. They didn’t sew me up there, they just cleaned my wounds out.

	W:	May I see your shrapnel wound again please, sir? Okay, I got it. Thank you.



	C:	So, we stayed there a couple days. I think it was couple days. That’s where they gave me my first Purple Heart. I told you on the phone that I had two Purple Hearts, but they was for the same injuries. Then they flew us to Philippines. We stayed overnight. It guess it was a hospital. And then, they flew us into Japan. In Japan was where they sewed my wounds up.

	W:	How long were you recovering from your wounds?



	C:	Okay, when you got able enough where you could move around, they had a place where you could do PT. But they made sure that you was well enough that if you stretch your arm—I had wire stitches—that they wouldn’t pull. The wire







stitches are loose. And we used to do stuff like volleyball. You know, condition ourself to go back. So actually, another thing that probably saved me from going back was when I would play volleyball, the ball would hit one of my fingers, because a fragment was enlarged between the bone, and it would sprain the whole hand. So, they had to send me back to the hospital. And you always got to get orders to go from A to B, B to C, or whatever. So, when I got back that night, the fragment was enlarged right in there. Just a little, tiny fragment. So when it hit that finger, it would sprain the whole hand.

	W:	Is it still there?



C:  No, no. When I got back to the hospital that night, they made a little incision, and took the little tiny fragment out. Which, I got hit through that knuckle, but they cut the fragment out right there. So when they sent me back,—

W:   [shuffles] Just coming back to where I was, it’s a better seat. [Laughter]



	C:	Oh, okay. When they sent me back, well, I started with my PT again. But I was reading about how bad it was getting in Vietnam.

W:   How bad it was getting, after you had already left.



	C:	It was getting worse. Didn’t want to go back. I had only three months that I had to do, and I just felt like I wasn’t going to make it. So I was complaining to the doctor, because I was having pain problem with my shoulder. So the doctor, he extended my profile, said no running, stooping, or bending. But he was going to send me back to Vietnam, but he extended so I’d go stateside. But if I had’ve been in a US—which “US” means you was drafted, “RA” means you volunteered for three years—if I’d’ve been in for three years, I would have stood another







chance when I got back stateside to come back to Vietnam again; another tour. But I only had nine months to do when I left Japan. So I finished my nine months up at Fort Benning. Which, I must say I had some good times when I was in Japan. I got to see the Tokyo Tower. And I had a cousin stationed in the Air Force, him and his family was there. So when I got well enough that I could go for a weekend pass, I went to see my cousin and his wife. So, I had some good times in Vietnam—I mean, in Japan.

	W:	So, let me ask you this question: was it worth it to go to Vietnam and fight for your country?

	C:	Was it worth it? [long pause] Maybe I have to say, because I got some negative vibes, maybe I can say yes and no. My yes is, I didn’t mind fighting for my country, but the bad part about it is I came back with a lot of problems, and the government did not recognize that the war had created problems for me. Which, my nine months that I finished, I had a nice position at Fort Benning. I did not have any problems, we were training OCS students, like going out so they could call in fire and stuff like that. We set up mortars. But, about four months before I got out—well, let me back up a little bit. When I was in Japan, it first started with me having nightmares and headaches. And they continued. And they put me on medication. Of course, no medication helped the nightmares. But let me know a little bit advance, that’s the part I needed to kick in. About four months before I got out, I started having a crawling sensation in my head—which, I was still having the headaches and the nightmares.







	W:	I’m sorry to interrupt you, but you said a “crawling sensation.” Could you describe what was happening?

	C:	Well, evidently it was posttraumatic stress kicking in. But they didn’t know what it was. I went to the psychiatrist, psychologist; talking didn’t help.

	W:	You felt like something was crawling on you?



	C:	It felt like something was crawling in my head. Okay? And so, they sent me to mental hygiene clinic, but like I said, psychiatry didn’t help. Psychiatrist medication didn’t help. So I was discharged in December [19]68 with this condition. And I applied for treatments at the VA. So they seen me at the VA, psychologists, psychiatrists, and after probably about maybe three or four months, they denied that my war experience had anything to do with what was going on with me. So, they discontinued my treatments to try to help me with that problem.

	W:	Okay. Continuing with Mr. Clayton. I want to back you up a little bit, because I asked you about the first time you were scared, and then you took me through what happened to D.C., and you talked about leaving and being hurt and going to Japan. But when was the first time that you lost somebody who was really close, and what kind of happened?

C:  I don’t think that I really lost anybody before that time that I was really close to. Not that close. Because we lived like brothers. I mean, what he had, I had, and you know.

W:   What was going to happen to him could happen to you, kind of thing.







C:  Yeah. Even though he was my buddy, he was closer than a relative. Because I don’t think I even really been, before that time, close to anybody like I was with him. I guess because we were in the same territory every day, you know.

W:   Did you ever have to do things that you wished you hadn’t when you were there?



Even if it was to survive?



	C:	Well, the name of the game over there was to survive, so anything that you did, you didn’t feel like you were doing anything wrong. But I must say that I didn’t do what maybe some other people did, because I didn’t work in villages. So I didn’t go into villages and shoot people up, you know, and stuff like that. We always worked near the Cambodian border, which was out in the jungles. And when you ran into the enemy, they was ready to fight. And I was never face to face with the enemy.

	W:	So you couldn’t see them, like we’re having this conversation. C:	Right, right.

	W:	They were off in the distance.



	C:	Right, right. And a lot of times, if it was in the jungle, you shooting where the fire is coming from. You don’t really see them, because they would be so camouflaged anyway. They would have bushes on them and stuff like that, that’s the name of the game.

	W:	Could you see the bullets coming? Or could you feel ‘em. or hear ‘em, or what was that like?

	C:	Oh yeah, you can see ‘em, and you can hear ‘em! [Laughter] W:	[Laughter] What do they look like?







	C:	As a matter of fact, when I got wounded was in that crater. You don’t stick your head up out of a crater and somebody shooting. Or even if they not shooting and you know they going shoot, you know, you just put that M-16 up—pr-r-r-r-r-r-r-t!— or you pull that pin that pin on that grenade and you toss it down the hill.

	W:	So you would put the gun up above and— C:	Not high!

	W:	Okay, not too high—because there’s your arm, yeah, but just up—



	C:	Right, right. You know, you do a quick burst. You know, you shooting automatic fire. So, once you pull the trigger, you might do a four-round, a six-round burst or whatever. You might, you do a quick pr-r-r-r-! p-r-r-r-! You know, you don’t just hold it up there.

	W	But you could see the bullets. Was it white, was it red, was it green? The thing from me and my generation, and probably people that follow, we’ve been trained for what we see on TV. These recreations. So, I’m trying to get a feel for what it really looked, and sounded, and felt like to be in that kind of a firefight situation, because all I know is what I’ve seen in the movies.

	C:	Right, right. Right. Well, actually, the way you going see some firing like that, it’d have to see by night. And we never got into any night confrontation. And that’s where you would—like the United American, not the guys who’s fighting, but if they was shooting from a helicopter or a plane, they would use what they called tracers. So, you definitely would be seeing them, and that’s the whole idea. So they know where they shooting, and if somebody’s down there, they need to tell







them, “Right,” “left,” “back off,” or whatever, you know. But in the daytime, you can’t—you’d have to see somebody’ gun to see the blast.

	W:	But you could hear it.



	C:	Oh yeah, you could hear it.



	W:	And could you feel the heat of the wind of the bullets coming by kind of thing?



	C:	No, because we was in a bomb crater, and we were down—I mean, we was up on the hill, and we was in the crater. Even when something happened before, it ain’t hard to pinpoint, because you know where it’s coming from but you don’t see it coming. You know, you hear it.

	W:	Do you think that America learned any valuable lessons from you going to Vietnam, and from your friends going, and other soldiers going? Was there anything learned?

	C:	Well I’m pretty sure there was a lot of lessons learnt, but I’m pretty sure every war is different. Just like I feel bad for Iraq, Afghanistan, and what was that, Desert Storm? Because those people were fighting entirely different wars. We didn’t have to worry about chemicals. Because the enemy did not have helicopters, they did not have artillery. But if they’d’ve had the same air power that we had, the United States would have been come over there long time ago. And the reports that they wrote up for the media, was not always true. It made it look like the United States was really doing a job, but were getting a job done on us in Vietnam. I mean, because you couldn’t do what you supposed to, it wasn’t a declared war—and it wasn’t fighting every day. We had a lot of good days, sitting around, laughing, talking.







	W:	Did you know a lot of the people that lived there? Did you ever make friends or establish contact with the people you were there to help, for example? The South Vietnamese?

	C:	Oh no, see, I didn’t work around villages. So the only time I seen Vietnamese sometime, or villages, when we convoyed that time, and then when maybe they fly us from one place to the other.

	W:	What about recreation time? Did you go into any of the cities? Did you ever go to Saigon?

	C:	No. When we was out in the jungles, we was out there the whole while. Now, people that was in more of a secure area, then they could go in to Saigon and places like that. But my whole life, for six and a half months, was out in the jungles. I didn’t even take R&R, I wanted to wait ‘til I was over there about nine months before I’d take R&R.

	W:	Is there more that the government can do today to acknowledge your role and the role of people like you that went and fought in Vietnam?

	C:	I just wish that the government, when they draft people or people volunteer for Service, that they would recognize people when they come back and have a problem, instead of putting them—or them being discharged, and leaving them. Sometimes they have places to go, but sometimes they may not seek help. I tell people today, I didn’t do drugs, I didn’t do alcohol before I went in Service. But if I had been doing them, I don’t think that I would be here today. And I went through a lot, because I was denied the medical at the time. I am a hundred percent now. Twenty percent on diabetes, I think about forty percent on post-traumatic stress,







and wounds, total a hundred percent. But I don’t like the way the government doesn’t come up the plate, when they caused the problem.

	W:	Do you think it’s better for people coming back today? For example, when you came back, there was no parade or anything like that, I’m sure.

	C:	No, it wasn’t.



	W:	What do you remember about when you came back? How were you welcomed when you came back?

	C:	Well, actually, we wasn’t really welcomed. You know, we didn’t have a welcome thing. And I’m pretty sure I was just so glad to be back, it probably didn’t even bother me that I didn’t get a welcome. I was just so happy to be back. But when I did get back from Japan in, I think I got stateside in February of [19]68—I think it was [19]68—that’s when Martin Luther King got killed.

	W:	A few months after that, you’re right.



	C:	Okay. Well, whenever that period was, okay. And the bad thing about that, we had just got back, and I was stationed at Fort Benning. We had to go up to D.C. because they was burning and looting, but when we got up there, they had kind of already done their damage. But we still had to ride those streets on trucks.

And I’m saying now, we had already done been to a war, and now we got to come back here and have to deal with something like this.

	W:	Did you have any radios with you? Did you hear what Petey Green was telling the people in D.C. at the time?

	C:	Well see, we didn’t get there time it happened. So when we got up there, everything was stable. We just had to ride the streets. Unloaded guns, of course,







but anybody else wouldn’t have known that the guns were not loaded. But. And nothing happened. We stayed up there, it was just bad thing to see. Now, we had already been fighting and we come back here into situation like this.

	W:	In the nation’s capital. C:	Yeah.

	W:	How did you feel about that?



C:  Well, I didn’t feel good. Nobody could feel good about that. I don’t know just how much it touched me when I—because I can’t quite bring it back, how I felt exactly at that time when it happened.

W:   Were you with the same guys you’d been in Vietnam with, or—?



	C:	No, everybody went in different directions. Because when some people got wounded, they went to different hospitals. So I don’t remember seeing anybody that I was in Vietnam with.

	W:	I didn’t ask you when we first started: what was your designation, and your rank, and your outfit when you were in Vietnam?

	C:	Okay, I was with the 4th Division, which was based out of Pleiku. My rank was E—well, when I got out, I was E-4, with Spec/4. I went up for five, but I didn’t make the test. Didn’t know what they was going to be asking me, so I really didn’t know what to brush up on.

	W:	So 4th Division, that handles everything? Is there any other designation—what battalion, what company, kind of thing to specify your unit?

	C:	Let’s see, what we was called? We were 3rd—I don’t know, we were based out of Pleiku with the 4th Division. I didn’t go over there with the 4th Division. There was







a 4th Division stateside that they usually go over as a whole, but when we went over, different people were just sent to different areas.

	W:	They were just filling y’all in. You were replacements.



	C:	Right. We was replacements. Wherever people were needed, they sent you there.

	W:	What do you think the country can do to demonstrate its proper respect for veterans? Whether it’s from your era, or now, or in the future. What can be done?

	C:	My feelings from where it used to be about the way they treat veterans when they come back—I don’t have anything now negative far as getting treatments, because I’m treated for any and everything.

	W:	But it took a long time.



	C:	Yeah, it took a long time. It took a long time. I’m diabetic: they give me my shoes, they check my feet, regular. My primary doctor, he, I just went to him the other week, he checks me for everything. He do preventative things like aspirin for my heart, which I don’t have a heart problem, that’s a little blood thinner. They give me my glasses, twice a year. They do my dental, twice a year. I don’t have no negative about the medical now.

	W:	But it might have been nicer twenty years ago, to be doing some of these same things.

	C:	Right. I would not probably have went through a lot of the head things that I went through—which I still take medications for headaches. I still have problems sleeping. I have a sleeping problem, I’ve had it for years. But there’s been a lot of change from when the time that I got out. There have been a lot of things that I







have learned to live with. I could tell that I was not violent or anything, but I was not the person that I was before I went, because I was dealing with things.

Because I’m a people person. But I’ve overcome a lot of that, as you can see in my humor. [Laughter] But there was things going on back the day when I got out, back in the [19]70s and [19]80s, that I couldn’t handle a lot of things openly. And as I sit here today, years ago, I would not be able to sit before anybody and talk about what I’m saying today. And I don’t know if you noticed a little while, probably about ten minutes ago, I was feeling a little stuff inside, so I’m doing well. I spoke at a school one time, the high school, and it got a little emotional.

And ‘course, this is something you can’t tell at all in two or three hours, because there was a lot of stuff I shared with them. ‘Course they were children, of course they had no idea that we went through stuff like we did in Vietnam. I’m kind of going back, but, it was like conditions. Lot of times we didn’t get change of clothes. A lot of times we smelled, because we didn’t have water to sponge off. A lot of times we shaved out the same steel pot. Everybody shaved out the same steel pot. There were conditions where we went through streams and leeches got on us. I’m backing up. There was the time that, for some reason, we got in the wrong area where the United States I think was going to be bombing; we had to hurry up and get out of there. I don’t even know how we even got over there. It wasn’t like a squad, it was the whole company. I was telling about there was a time the enemy—we didn’t do it, but a lot of the enemy got killed, and it was in an area that we have convoy coming through. So it had to be flatland, because out in the jungle you don’t have no convoy. But anyway, the enemy had got killed







and it was quite a few of them, and they was just rotten and bloated and stuff. We usually don’t bury them, but the United States used that area, so we had to go there and bury them. And the ones along the road, the tank, it could scrape a hole and push them in there. But those were some of the bad experience of smelling somebody dead, bloated. And when we got there, you know what the sergeant told us? He said, let’s eat dinner. I could probably eat around just about anything, it probably wouldn’t bother me, you know. I’ve never smelled a human body since then, but—.

	W:	Was he telling y’all that cause he thought y’all were tough enough, or was he just being cynical?

	C:	No, I think it was because it was lunchtime, and we were going eat a little lunch and we were going go out. I don’t think he was trying to make a man out of us, cause we was already a man. [Laughter] I don’t think he was really trying to prove something.

W:  You’ve been back home for a long time. I want to ask you about how you’ve seen the country change, from what it was like in the 1960s to today. How do you think America has changed, and has that been a change for the better?

	C:	Well, it’s been a change for the better. As a matter of fact, when I went to the school, it wasn’t just talking about Vietnam, it was talking about how it was in the [19]50s and [19]60s, which I talked about, the Colored bathroom and the White bathroom, which they knew nothing about that.

	W:	Oh, really? Which high school was this? C:	It was Interlachen High School.







	W:	Interlachen High School? And what kind of questions did the kids ask? What was their response to you?

	C:	I don’t really believe they asked too many questions. They were just so amazed at my conversation piece about stuff that happened. I guess it was unbelievable to them. Like I say, I did get a little emotional, but I kind of got my grip. I didn’t cry, but I just had to catch another grip. You know. As a matter of fact, I was talking to a doctor a long time ago, and it was about Vietnam, and she say, “Now, it’s going to open up a can of worms.” A lot of times, stuff will. Today, I’ve done good. I mean, only a few minutes ago. But as years pass, I’m getting stronger, wherein I can talk about it, where in years ago, I couldn’t. Because number one, it would make me so angry about things that happened. But I’ve learned to adjust and learn how to handle a lot of things. Like I was being comical with you guys over there. That’s my life.

	W:	Oh yeah, that was great though.



	C:	That has kept me going. There were things that my wife—and she’ll never understand, because she haven’t been there, done that, and I hope nobody experience stuff that I experienced. And there was ways that I handled a lot of things because if it was bothering me—I still like to be around people. It still motivates me, it still gives me a drive. I don’t think she can ever see that, because she’s not—she’s a people person, on her job, going to church, stuff like that. But I’m a people person because I go through stuff at night, bad dreams and stuff. And I think this is a way I try to, the next day, sometime I remember it,







sometime I don’t. Not to say that’s good, I know, when I don’t remember bad stuff that I dream about.

	W:	So talking to the kids at school, coming here doing this interview, these are positives for you. We haven’t talked about your wife yet. You mentioned your marriage had ended, in the 1960s, when did you meet your current wife?

	C:	Okay, probably 1980. W:	And hat’s her name?

	C:	Her name is Thelma Lee Clayton W:	Okay. How did you meet?

C:   Back in the day, we was going out to the club. She was a dancer, I wasn’t much of a dancer, but I dated her for like—I had been married and separated, I mean, divorced. So, I was single for a long time. She had never been married. Which I stated over there, there’s a fifteen year difference.

W:  You must have been—1966, 1980. You were married, but then you were single for fourteen years.

C:  Yeah, like I say, I dated her for nine years. As a matter of fact, I tried to date her longer than that, but she wouldn’t play my game. [Laughter]

W:   You got the ultimatum.



	C:	Yeah, I didn’t let nobody else change me. You know, the other people that I was dating. But I think—I didn’t see it, but somewhere she must have had a rod with a hook, and I think she must have, “Say either you in or you out.” She didn’t say that, but you know.

	W:	The two of you have children?







	C:	She had a daughter when I married her, which her daughter is forty. I mentioned, she’s like my daughter because I got her in my life when she was six, so I’m like her daddy. She call me—

	W:	What’s her name.



	C:	Her name is Regina Dennison. She hadn’t married yet. The other one child that I had was by an ex-girlfriend that I didn’t mention in the conversation, I talked about the two by my first marriage. And her name is Diedre Latrine Clayton.

	W:	This is your daughter?



	C:	Yeah, she was by a ex-girlfriend. I guess she’s about thirty-five. And she got two kids, so I got two grandkids.

	A:	And what are their names?



	C:	The boy’ name is Joshua. I think he’s about ten, eleven. And Keela, she’s fifteen.



They live in Orlando.



	A:	Does your family, your children from your first marriage, your wife’s daughter, and then the children from this woman you didn’t marry, do you all get together, is there any kind of extended family? Do you ever do anything together, Thanksgiving or anything?

	C:	No. Now, like, my daughter used to come to cookouts—the one in Orlando— down in Reddick, when we used to have outings. We communicate on the phone, but we never have a social gathering. And her daughter, which is my daughter, she lives in Ocala. She’s a nurse, so she got her thing going on down there. But last Sunday she was down for Mother’s Day to her grandma’ house, which my wife went down, and ‘course I went down, too. But we have more—me







and that daughter and her mom, we have more of a social contact, and most of the time I have foot movement, where I’m moving around. So this kind of stuff, they’ll come down on me, but it’s okay.

	A:	You want to take a break?



	C:	No, no, it’s not bothering me. If what I’m showing doesn’t bother you. I’m okay, it’s just the body saying, “Hey, you didn’t get a lot of sleep!”

	A:	I have the same thing.



	C:	But it’s normal. You might have to hit me with something to crank me up—. W:	Are you pleased with how your life turned out?

	C:	Yes, I am. Now you had started asking me some questions about my wife. I don’t know, I probably didn’t contribute a lot there before I jumped to something else.

	W:	I’ve got a few more. What kind of things do you all do together? Are you enjoying your extended—we haven’t talked about your photography career yet, but I’m assuming you all spend time on what you consider kind of a semi-retirement?

	C:	Yeah.



	W:	So what is your semi-retirement with your wife like? Do you travel? Do y’all entertain? Is it mostly church stuff?

	C:	Well, I’m active in my church. She’s active in her church. W:	Okay, what are your two churches?

	C:	Okay, in her home town, her church is Methodist. It was a long time before she got into a church. I was in a church way before I met her, even though I might have been straddling the fence, years ago. And so, we know what the book say.







Should be going to one church, but she’s active in her church, I’m active in mine. It’s accepted.

	W:	Do you ever switch off? You’ll do some things in her church, she comes to do some stuff in yours?

	C:	Every now and then, I visit her church. They have church every Sunday. We don’t have a big congregation. We used to have church every Sunday, so we had to cut our church Sundays down to first and third because we don’t have enough people coming back on second and fourth, financially, for us to open the doors, paying the pastor and paying the musician. So right now we just doing second and fourth. But I do visit her church sometime, and there’s another church in Johnson that’s only fifteen minutes away that I visit sometime. Because we don’t have a long church service. The pastor is a running pastor. He’s busy trying to get through and get to another church, even though he had another church when we got him. But he just a busy person. So, I have other places that I can go on the off Sundays if I desire to do that. I’m a social person. She’s not social like I am. She don’t belong to any clubs, organizations. I do. So our social activities are not on the same level because I like to be involved with people. She, on her job and going to church, she do, but far as going out there in the public, she’s not. So it’s kind of somewhat divided because I love doing what I do, she’s not into it.

	W:	But you share a life together.



	C:	Yeah. So I have to do some things, and she may not like them, but it’s things that makes me happy and keeps me going.







	W:	You have a passion for photography that you’ve turned into more than just a side line. Let’s talk about that for a little bit. How did you first get involved in photography?

	C:	Well, I started taking pictures when I was, like, twelve. Okay, taking pictures, always took my camera. Not always, but I’d take it to church, I’d carry it to school—

	W:	Did you use that little brownie? Is that the camera that you—



	C:	Well, the brownie was the upper level. My grandfather had a brownie. [Laughter] I got one. But mine was a under model. You, the brownie was the—

	W:	I know the brownie was—my grandma had one. We used it with the flash bulb and everything. I thought that was the basic, you couldn’t get no lower than that. That was the—

	C:	Well no, no, you could get lower than that. Lower than that. And I got one of those camera which was light, I started, it was a 127. The brownie was the 120, I think.

	W:	I learned something. I thought the brownie was basement.



	C:	No, no, no, no no. No, brownie was the classic. There’s something under the brownie. See the brownie, you look down, through that little square job. Mine, you looked through the—I can say, mine was the 127. But anyway, it’s always been my life. I got burn out when I was first married. What I mean “burn out,” the house that I lived in—

	W:	Oh, you mean literally, your house burned down.







	C:	Right, right. It was somebody else house I was living in when I was first married.



So, I lost a lot of early pictures that I would have had. But I still got some that goes back quite a ways. Got a lot of high school pictures—not a lot, but a few. But what happened, when people started getting married where I go to church, maybe thirty years ago, thirty-five? I used to have a little pop-pop: just look through and shoot. And they would always say, “Well Clayton, I’m getting married. I’ll buy you film. How about taking my pictures?” So, my love for that, it kept going. And I started doing it as a little side job. But it wasn’t about the little money that I got at a wedding if I did one. It was just, I enjoy people.

	W:	And now, you brought a couple of pictures with you today, didn’t you? C:	Only that one. Well, you seen that one on that—

	W:	I actually didn’t get a good look at it, I saw that you had one. Okay, yeah, I saw your head shot. Okay, now this is you.

	C:	Yeah, that was in Fort Jackson, so that was up in 1967. W:	Looking sharp, standing tall. Now, is that at attention?

	C:	Not quite, because at attention there needs—well, yeah, I’m standing at attention. Yeah, you right.

	W:	Parade formation. C:	Yeah, yeah.

	W:	Okay, that’s sharp. Now where is this? It says Chapel Number 3, Sunday services.

	C:	That was my advanced training up at Fort Jackson.







	W:	Okay. Could you hold that picture? Let me snap a picture of you holding that picture. That’s a good picture. Here we go. You ready? Allrighty, I’ll let you see that.

	C:	Oh, cool. Now you’ll probably get a better one if you do it closer to me.



W:  Okay. And I want to ask you, I’m assuming you doing a lot of photography, you see it more as an art form. What do you think about the difference between film and this electronic thing I’m going now? Because a lot of people, they don’t like to do these, they want to actually use the actual film. Which do you prefer?

	C:	I hated learning—I don’t want to say “hate.” I dislike learning change. I’m old school, from back in the day? I got a little play digital, something like two hundred fifty dollars, but then I got a eight hundred dollar Pentax. I love it. I love film, and mine is a 12.5 pixel. And it gives a good picture. But I think since I bought it, I haven’t bought any film. It’s so much advance. And it’s nice to know, when I’m shooting a picture of you, that I can see it and know it’s okay. With film, you don’t know. If something going wrong, you don’t know until it’s over and it’s too late.

	W:	What about looking at it, the quality? Do you see a difference looking at a photography with film. Like, for example, I’m going to take a look at this one, and I can’t really tell if this is film or not.

	C:	That’s dig. And that’s a good quality picture.



	W:	This is digital. Okay, it could be film. Now this is film, because it’s black and white, so it’s got to be.

	C:	That’s film back in the day.







	W:	What do you think about black and white? Even digital black and white, do you do any of that?

	C:	I like black and white. I don’t do a lot of it, in my picture taking, a lot of people thought they didn’t like black and white. But when I used to take pictures of a wedding, I used to shoot one roll of black and white, and the rest color. But you can also make black and white from the color. A black and white is just what you see here, a black and white. A black and white from color, it has more contrast to it. It jump out at you. See this one doesn’t jump out. But if it was made from this, it’s just more darkness to it. A black and white is black and white. It’s old school, it’s just what it is. But people would always say when I would give them a choice—“You like this one, black and white from the film, or you like this one from the black and white film?” They always chose this one. So I stopped—

	W:	The digital black and white.



	C:	Right. And then when I found out I could get black and white from a color, I stopped doing it. I say if you want it black and white, I can make any black and white you want, from any of these pictures you see.

W:  I like black and white. I think it makes life more realistic in a way. Because you see the person in that stark contrast. This is the person without putting on airs, without additional—this is them. I like that part of it. Simple and true, it seems.

C:   Right.



W:   What’s that? Checking out something on the wall?



	C:	I was just looking at the black and white stuff up there. W:	Okay, yeah, that’s a flyer that we did last week.







	C:	I was telling you about my—that’s my breakdown on my percentages. W:	The disabilities

	C:	Yeah, my—



W:  Fifty PTSD, forty percent [inaudible 1:47:31], twenty percent diabetes, twenty percent shoulder, and twenty percent paralysis of median nerve. They got all your information right there though, don’t they?

	C:	Yup.



	W:	Okay, now, you have another article here that you wanted to share. Looks like an article and a picture.

	C:	Yeah, it was a story they did. Oh, we got a senior citizen building that just opened up in Melrose and—

	W:	Look at, that’s you! C:	You sure?

	W:	Yeah, that’s you.



	C:	Oh, okay. The guy from the newspaper snapped a picture and wrote that story. That’s not the one about the war thing, this is about—it’s basic information about me, and about the historic—that is—that last month paper?

	W:	February 2011



	C:	Okay, yeah. About, uh—



	W:	Okay, hold that up, too, let me get a picture of that one. Okay. C:	Oh, cool!

	W:	I still didn’t give you much head room, though, did I? Chopped you off a little bit. [Laughter]







	C:	That’s okay. That’s the thing about dig I had to learn. You got to leave more space, because what you see is not what you’re getting. And a lot of time, somebody might give me a picture to do something with. And the head—. But what I do is, I found a way—well, I go to CVS and put a border on this. And therefore, when you blow it up, you lose some of the border, or you get rid of the border, and you still don’t run the head off. But it’s still learning, and I‘m learning that a action picture, you got to put it on a action mode. My wife was speaking one day at the church, at her church. And she was moving around. But it wasn’t on a speed mode, it was on regular. And a lot of it was out of focus. So I’m having to learn that it’s a lot of different in the film camera settings, and then the different modes. Yup. And also, I could take a thirty-five and somebody could be moving, and I could go along and I can shoot them.

	W:	You got to have a little head room, a little motion room.



	C:	Yeah, you can’t do that with a dig. You got to go and stop. So you know, I’m having to re-brain, you know. [Laughter] That was that night at the library.

	W:	Memories at Melrose. So why did you start doing these public presentations to talk about yourself and what you do?

	C:	Well, I was asked to do this presentation at the library.



	W:	Now, which county library is that? Clay County? Bradford County? Alachua County?

	C:	No, we in all the counties, but it’s in Putnam County.



	W:	Putnam, okay. That’s the one I missed out. You’re in the four corners! [Laughter]







	C:	We have four different counties. At first, when they asked me about doing this, they was basically concerned on the east side, back in the day. And then they say, why don’t we make it open? So, I covered everything—East, West, North, South. You know, all up in Melrose, the paraded up in Melrose, and this and that. It wasn’t all about me, and it wasn’t all about the east, because we had people of all origins around that had done things.

	W:	Speedville is a different direction than Johnson.



	C:	Yeah, right! Right. As a matter of fact, my mom was born up at Speedville.



	W:	What is special about that Speedville community that ties people together over there?

	C:	Okay, number one, the reason it’s called Speedville is because there were more Speeds up there than anybody else. Just like Gordon Chapel: I’m kin to the Gordons. And that’s named because there were more Gordons living out in that area. My granddaddy, my grandmother was a Speed before she married. Well, actually, her brother was a Speed. My cousin—and I don’t know how old the ties is, but there’s a lady doing a genealogy on Keystone. Like I say, I need to bring that paper. You was asking me about my daddy’, my grandmomma’s, my granddaddy’s mom and all that. She just go way back to the 1700s. And I’m finding out that I’m kin to people I had no idea that I was kin to.

	W:	Are they related to the Brantons? Because Isaiah Branton is from over that way. He does a lot of genealogy. He traced his family back to the Sudan in the 1600s.

	C:	What’s his name? W:	Isaiah Branton.







	C:	Is he from Keystone, or is he from Starke? W:	He’s from Starke.

	C:	Is he a preacher?



	W:	I don’t know if he’s a preacher or not. C:	Is he a older guy?

	W:	Probably about your age.



	C:	No, this Mr. Branton that I know is a retired preacher. He, I don’t know—



	W:	I put the two of y’all together because you’re both in the same area and you enjoy the history, and the family reunions, and the genealogy, and all that stuff. And I know he has folks in Speedville and Starke. He’s Bradford country.

	C:	Well if he got people up there, we could even be related. Like, for years I found out that people in Speedville I had no idea until this lady looked it up. And man, this stuff go way back. And back in the day, kin people married kin people, whether they knew it or not.

W:  That’s one of the reason my family say, “We want you to be in this room and see and know who your kin are, so you don’t end up trying to court them.” It was kind kind of a joke, but it was kind of serious.

	C:	And then sometimes it might have been because the Depression. And they knew they were kin, but, you know, they just—somebody was helping somebody and they married them. I tell you, it’s like my grandson. My grandson is probably, he’s thirty-something, and he don’t know who all his kin people is. Because we got kin people out in Gordon Chapel that he probably have no idea: they not a Gordon, they not a Williams, they not a Baker, which we kin to those, but somebody







married into something else and they not that. But they was a Gordon, and somebody’ children momma could have been a Gordon or a Davis, you know what I’m saying? It’s like in Speedville: I could have ended up dating one of my cousins because I never knew that we were kin to the Donnellys.

	W:	I have a great aunt who’s a second cousin, and I didn’t know.



	C:	Right, or we were kin to the Warrens. All of this is coming out. I tell you, it’s amazing.

	W:	Mr. Cornelius Clayton, I want to thank you for coming in and talking to us today. This has been fascinating. And this is our first time doing this. I know we’ll have at least one more, and maybe several, but on behalf of the Sam Proctor Oral History Program, and our African American History Project, I want to thank you for taking the time to drive in from Melrose and come in our studio and talk to us.

	C:	I’m glad that you invited me.



	W:	Thank you. I like to conclude my interviews by giving the person I’ve spoken with the chance to have final privilege, if you will. So I’m going to conclude my remarks and give you the opportunity to say anything you want for as long as you want. You can talk about something in the interview, you can talk about something we didn’t talk about, you can close out with something else, but when you’ve finish your remarks, that’ll conclude the interview, with our thanks.

	C:	Okay. I like to say that I enjoyed the interview, and I hope the next time that I will have more pictures and information, and maybe copies to leave you to do whatever you want to. I’ve enjoyed it. I’ve enjoyed talking to your secretary, I’ve enjoyed the two—are they students? I’ve enjoyed meeting your two students,







and looking forward to giving what information I can for this presentation that it may help somebody to keep stuff documented. So I guess I’ll close out on that.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Jessica Lancia



	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, December 15, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019