AAHP 302; White; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 302 Bill White

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Justin Dunnavant on April 25, 2013 56 minutes | 29 pages



Abstract: Bill White grew up in Boise, Idaho in the 1980s – 1990s. He tells about his quest to become an African American archeologist at Boise State University. After struggling to find a job in the field with just a Bachelor’s degree, he continued his studies in the subfield of cultural resource management in the Archeologist at the University of Idaho. He goes on to tell about his experiences as a consultant and owner for a private cultural resource firm. He also wrote a number of books and training guides that focus on preparing students, especially minorities, for the challenges of the archeology field.

Finally, he gives his plans for the future and his current proceedings in a doctoral program at the University of Arizona.





Keywords: [Archeology; Idaho; education; cultural resource management]











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 302

Interviewee: Bill White Interviewer: Justin Dunnavant Date: April 25, 2013



	D:	Thanks again, Bill, for sitting down and talking with us W:	Yeah, no problem. Anytime

	D:	I know we had a few questions on this list that I wanted to get to, but before that I just kinda wanted to learn a little bit more about you; where you grew up, when you grew up, where you went to school, that sort of thing.

	W:	Oh yeah no problem. So, I was born in 1979, in Boise, Idaho. I’m from the West, from the mountains. And pretty soon after I was born, my family moved Tulane Avenue in Mount Vernon, New York, so that’s right outside of the Bronx. That’s where I started school as a kindergardener, moving into first grade. So for a little while, we lived in the city there, but my family decided it probably wasn’t a good idea for us to stay there and grow up in that neighborhood. So my dad, at the time he worked for the Job Corps, which I think was part of the Department of the Interior at the time, and then he applied for a job at Mountain Home Air Force Base in Idaho. So, he got to go back. My dad played football at Boise State. And so, he met his wife, my mom, out there, and that’s how they got together. And so for my dad, who was Black and from North Carolina, to move from the East to the West wasn’t that hard, because he’d already done it once before. And so, that’s pretty much where I grew up. I went to high school, elementary school, the rest of elementary school and junior high in Boise. And you know, when I was a kid—so, growing up in the [19]80s, there’s the major movie series that were going around that totally influenced the way I was thinking. So, the whole Star Wars thing; you know, I wanted to be an astronaut, and also, that was, you know, the heyday of





the space shuttle. And so it was all about going into space, and the new telecommunications network and all that stuff, and so I really felt that I wanted to be an astronaut. But also, Indiana Jones influenced me, I’m afraid to say, those really influenced me. And being the nerd that I was, I decided I’d learn more about history and stuff as a backup, in case I didn’t become an astronaut.

	D:	Mmhm! [Laughter]



	W:	It’s just so weird. When I was in high school, I took my ASAT, but I scored really high, I qualified to be a pilot if I wanted to. But my mom made me take the ACT; she wouldn’t sign the papers, because I was seventeen, for me to go into the Navy. And so I took the ACT, and then I decided, “Well, I did all right, so I guess I’ll just go to college. I’ll try this whole college thing for a while.” And by that time I realized I was a few inches too tall to be an astronaut. So I just decided, “All right, well, I’ll just be an archaeologist instead.”

	D:	[Laughter] Wow!



	W:	[Laughter] So yeah, I just made that my goal, and I just did it. I went to Boise State for my undergrad. Knowing what I know now, it’s a genius move to go to a school like Boise State for your undergrad because it was cheap, it’s out of the way, there’s no minorities, so everything is just wide open for you there. But on the other hand, you don’t get all the prestige that comes along with going to a major university. So when I graduated with my BA, you know, I was in Boise, and I was looking for jobs. And there was pretty much nothing going on in Idaho.

Idaho doesn’t have some kind of regulatory context as some of the other states, so there wasn’t really that much room for archaeology. And as a person with just





a BA, you don’t qualify for any kind of teaching job. I got my degree in anthropology, and I knew I wanted to do archeology, but I had no idea where to go or who to talk to. I didn’t even know there was such a thing as CRM. And this was early 2000s, I didn’t even know what I was going to do with my degree. So I just pretty much went to Google and started typing in, you know, “jobs in archaeology,” and “where do you get a job in archaeology?” And I came across a couple of cultural resources companies, but I didn’t want too move to far away.

But I started applying for stuff in California and Nevada. And it was tough, nobody wanted me. I had a little bit of volunteer experience and no field experience, so I couldn’t get a job. I spent quite a while like that, without a job, before I decided to go on to graduate school. Actually, a former professor saw me working at Costco where I was working, and said, “What are you doing here? I thought you were going to do archaeology.” I said, “I don’t know what to do, I don’t know where to go.” He said, “You know what? Talk to this guy. He’ll talk to you, and you’ll figure it all out.” And the guy said—it was Mark Warner at the University of Idaho—and he said if I signed up for an MA program, he can guarantee a job, but someone that’s not even trying to go for their MA, he didn’t know if he could do anything for them. So I went on to grad school and got my first job in CRM, and just kept doing it.

	D:	Wow. So let me back track a little bit. Your undergrad, your major was in Anthropology?

	W:	Yeah, I got a major in Anthropology and minor in Native American Studies





	D:	Oh okay. So what were your classes like there in archaeology and anthropology at Boise State?

	W:	You know, it’s so weird: I was really interested in anthropology, I was pretty good at writing, and good at doing research, but the department that I went to was pretty small, and there was only a few anthropologists. And for some reason, they just never really—I never really clicked with anyone in my department. And I got like Bs, pretty much, straight through all my anthropology courses. Even though I handed in some papers that I later turned into articles, yeah I didn’t get As. But a lot of the other stuff I was getting As in, so my GPA was pretty good, but in anthropology I was just an above-average student, I guess. As far as the classes, they were really mentally stimulating. We learned a lot of interesting stuff; preparing me for the job field? It did almost nothing to prepare me for, you know, going into cultural resources.

	D:	So, what was it really that drew you into cultural resource management? Was it the fact that it was a paying job, or it was something you thought you might want to do long-term?

	W:	I guess it was a combination of both. When I was in undergrad—because Boise’s such a small community—I guess it’s not really that small anymore, but, you know, it seemed like it was—it’s smaller than Tucson, most definitely. In Boise, there’s not really that many archaeologists, or very much public outreach or interest at the time in archaeology. So as an undergrad, a couple of us, when we reached our 300 level, we were able to take like a community outreach, a community classes in Archaeology of Idaho. And we also did a couple of surveys





on the nearby National Guard—it was like a tank training area, so we walked around and looked for artifacts and stuff. So I did that for volunteer, and I saw a little bit of the fieldwork. And then I did a little bit of teaching at community education venues while I was in school. So, I did a little of that. But it was really a field school. I did a field school through the University of Idaho, which if I could recommend to anyone, I don’t know what level the field school is at your university or at most universities, but I recommend it be a 200-level course. I think that people school get field school out of the way first, because then you’ll know right away whether you’re actually going to be able to cut it, and you’ll just know it. I took field school and I absolutely loved it. And then this is when I decided, “I want to do that, I just want to do that all the time. I want to do research, and excavate, and find cool artifacts all the time.” So as far as getting into cultural resource management, it’s just a natural progression. If you want to do archaeology, and you want to be a field archaeologist in the United States, then that’s the easiest way to do it. Because cultural resource management archaeologist, you’ll have plenty of field time. [Laughter]

	D:	That’s interesting. So, you know there’s very few African American archaeologists generally, and there’s even fewer in CRM. So, what was your experience like in CRM?

	W:	Well you know, I can see how in some other industries, there might be some kind of problem with having a few Black people working. But I’m trying to think of an industry that’s so singularly White in the United States; there really isn’t.

Archaeology is just concentrated with White people. And I don’t think it’s a matter





of White specifically trying to make it that way. I think there’s so few people interested in archaeology in the United States anyway, and then knowing that it’s going to be difficult for you make a significant amount of money, the few Black people that have a chance, or the few Asians or Hispanics that have a chance to go to college, they’re probably not going to spend it on doing something like archaeology. They’re going to want to go into something where they can benefit right away with the least amount of schooling, and have the potential to be a multi-millionaire. That’s not to say that in cultural resource management that there aren’t multi-millionaires; I actually know quite a few. But Black people, particularly with the difficulties we have going to school in the first place, I can see some people’s family going off the deep end when they say they want to go into archaeology. But my experience in CRM has been—in all fairness? The people that work in cultural resource management, they’re the ones that have a degree in anthropology, so there’s a lot of time studying human cultures and stuff. And so, racism and discrimination, I haven’t really seen any of it. Especially working out West where, first of all, it tends to be a little more liberal in the cultural resources sphere anyways, and then the fact that you’re out West where there aren’t as many minorities, they don’t even actually know where to put you, because they have no Black friends or work with no other Black people. So they just don’t even know what to do. They have no bad experience or good experience; it’s just a blank slate.

	D:	So what are some of the places and the sites that you’ve traveled to doing CRM?



What were some of the first sites that you’ve dug?





	W:	So in the beginning—so I guess I’ll describe a little bit about what some people think CRM is, and then what the reality of it is. So cultural resource management is archaeology, ethnography, history, architectural history, and a whole host of other things, including anthropology, that all serve the purpose of fulfilling companies’ or government agencies’ compliance with federal, state, or local regulations. So, cultural resource management archaeology is not the same as just pure academic archaeology. The goals of cultural resource management archaeology is to work within the boundaries of the laws we have for cultural resources. On the national level, we have things like the National Environmental Policy Act, so that’s NEPA, or we have National Historic Preservation Act, NHPA. And those are the two main laws that require companies to do compliance, environmental compliance, before they do projects. So the people who are business owners who work in other businesses that have to contract out to cultural resource specialists, they think that we’re the guys that basically get their cultural resources box checked, or make sure that they don’t find any skeletons. That’s what they think. So, in some ways to those guys, we’re kind of like lawyers. We go out there, we take the money, we do whatever little stuff we do, and because we’re who we are, we’re the only ones who can that cultural resource box checked. And it’s seen as just an expense that they pay to make sure they’re compliant with the law. So, some clients understand the game and they’re okay with it. And other clients try to push back against it. But, at the end of the day, you’re going out there to identify cultural resources, whatever, in the myriad ways that they manifest themselves. We’re out there to find those things





and determine if those are significant enough for whatever project to disturb them or to destroy them. Business people treat us like specialists, like consultants, and they pay a fee and then they get whatever they get at the end. A lot of the general public, when you say the word “archaeologist,” of course they think about Indiana Jones, and Laura Croft, and going around and doing all types of adventures and stuff like that. That’s what they think, but then on the other hand, there’s also an inherent authority over things. So if you’re an average, everyday individual, and some archaeologist tells you something about the past or history, you know, you’re just going to kind of believe them, because they’re supposedly the specialist. But on the other hand, Indigenous groups and other groups that don’t want us to be working or doing any kind of research on the area, they might see us as the enemy. So, rather than someone who’s there to protect their interests or to decide if their interest even extended to this area, they might see us as an oppositional force because of the bad history that archaeology has in the United States. And then, some people in the government, they probably think that we’re working to the letter of the law, and that we really are preserving our cultural heritage for future generations. There may be some individuals think that. Other individuals may think that we are just a middleman, and that the agency— in all fairness, the agency or the government is actually the cultural resource manager; the cultural resource management archaeologist is just the consultant, a specialist. So the city manager is the manager of the city; the cultural resource management archaeologists or historic preservationist, that person is just a





consultant that provides information to the manager to manage resources for the people, because they work for the government. We work for money.

	D:	Mmm, ok, so you mentioned— W:	Oh, no go ahead.

	D:	Oh, no go ahead.



	W:	Oh, I was going to say those are the three different ways that people may perceive us, but in reality it’s a nine-to-five job where you spend about seventy percent of your time writing and reading, and filling out forms; you spend about ten or fifteen percent of your time dealing with budgets, and all kinds of other stuff. And then, you spend about fifteen percent or so of your time actually doing fieldwork. So, actually out there looking for stuff.

	D:	Well that was going to be my question: I was wondering, what is CRM, for a lot of students who don’t necessarily get that experience? They may get a field school experience, but not necessarily CRM as a student.

	W:	Well, you know, as a student—and you’re talking about anthropology students, right?

	D:	Right, right.



	W:	Anthropology students are in a field that is all about passion and all about dreams, and if you have a clear dream for what you want to do with your career, and you are doing an anthropology degree to do it, by all means don’t hesitate to continue towards that. So, if you’re anthropologist, if you want to study tribes in the middle of the jungle or something like that, then that’s what you need to aim for, and you need to figure out whatever path will take you to that. For people





who want to become archaeologists, there’s a couple of different ways to do it. You can become a CRM archaeologist like me, you can become a professor and do some archaeology, or you just have a normal job and then volunteer and do archaeology as your hobby. You don’t even actually need to have a degree if you want to do archaeology, you can just work with other people and volunteer, and you could be a banker instead. But for the student that’s interested in doing cultural resource management archaeology, for me, I feel like it’s a wide open field where you will spend time worrying and learning about things that you never even knew existed. You’re going to be going to places where nobody goes; all kinds of out-of-the-way places. It’s a really challenging job, and sometimes it can really thankless, it can seem like the money is not worth it or whatever. But after you look back on your career after a few years, you think about all the projects and all the stuff that you’ve seen, and it actually is really remarkable

	D:	Yeah, definitely. And a lot of people tend to think that CRM is a lot of just nine to five, but you’ve actually gone beyond that and taken on a lot of side projects, starting your own company, writing your own books. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about that. You recently started a company I guess, a couple years ago, Succinct Research?

	W:	Yes.



	D:	Could you tell me a little bit about that? How that started, and what it entails?



	W:	I’ve taught quite a few field schools, and I am constantly—as a crew chief and a project director, constantly training individuals to do things in archaeology. And so, I realized that you go to school, you have to have the degree in order to





become an archaeologist. But the curriculum is so packed with things that you need to—you know, expanding your mind intellectually, that there’s not really a lot of room in universities, or they haven’t taken the time to set up an individual major to teach you the kind of mechanics that you’d need to have when you get out into the field. I’ve been doing CRM, I’ve been getting paid to do CRM since 2004. And I don’t know how many people I’ve trained to do all kinds of different stuff, you know, from just booking the hotel room for everybody over the internet to calculating the amount of money it’ll cost to finish a project, to figuring out your bearing and sending out all the shovel probes in the forest using a compass and a ruler. There’s all kinds of stuff you need to learn how to do, but you never learn any of it. So I started Succinct Research to make e-books to help people learn the skills that they’re going to need if they want to do CRM archaeology. And also to help clients understand how to save money, or how they can get better results from CRM consultants. I had a whole bunch of different training materials and stuff that I’d made over the years for field schools, and artifact identification stuff, and there was recurring questions that people would ask me all the time that worked under me. And I started blogging about those things, and then I took some of that material and put it together in an e-book, and put it on the Kindle, and that’s pretty much where I’m at. So as far as publishing on the Kindle, as far as CRM goes, and archaeology publication, the whole domain of archaeology publication is dominated by the academic presses. And those people crank out absolutely wonderful peer-reviewed books that cost anywhere from a hundred and forty to four hundred and something dollars. The information that’s in those





books is beyond the reach of ninety percent of the people who actually need that information. I mean most libraries don’t even buy a lot the archaeology book that are interesting especially the ones that are interesting, especially the ones that are on cultural resource management. So I decided rather than create these books for an astronomical fee, using the internet, I can get all the people that I know—you know, peer reviewers that have already peer-reviewed academic journal articles, and hundreds and hundreds of CRM reports—to review the e- books, and then pay a professional editor to make sure that it all jives, and then put it on the Kindle for five bucks. Something that a student can afford.

	D:	Right, that’s a great idea. So what was the first book that you came out with? W:	The first book that I published was called Small Archaeology Project

Management. During the last recession, there was a huge shake-up in the cultural resources industry. Basically, if people don’t build anything like sub- divisions, it’s difficult for cultural resources companies to stay afloat. The time period—I guess I’m going to do a little spoiler from my SHA presentation for this year.

	D:	Oh okay.



	W:	So I’ve been working on this thing for almost a decade, but there’s people that have worked in this field thirty, forty years in cultural resources, and they have seen things change a lot throughout the entire time. But I’d say from the [19]90s all the way up to 2008, we’ve been building like gangbusters. And the environmental regulations and environmental compliance industries have been expanding proportionate to the amount of projects that are going on. So the





amount of money that was being poured into environmental compliance for the time, you know, the eighteen years or so, from 1990 to 2008, was always increasing. And I did a project recently where I looked at all of the previous projects that had gone down within a mile of that place, and for the twenty years leading up to 2008, there had been a more than two hundred and thirty-percent increase in the amount of projects that had been done. So that meant that there was X amount of projects that happened in the [19]90s, and then there was a two hundred and thirty percent increase on that number in the first eight years of the 2000s. And in the [19]90s, there was a two hundred and thirty percent increase over the [19]80s. So, a number of things that had been going down was increasing astronomically, and then it kind of hit a wall. And when it hit a wall, the companies didn’t really know—you know, nobody really knew what to do. We’d been used to getting fed for certain things. And construction companies, if they don’t build stuff, then they don’t hire us. In government, if they cut all their budgets, then they don’t do the projects, which means we don’t get the compliance. So instead of streamlining their processes and figuring out different ways, a lot of the bigger companies relied on their huge savings, their reputation, and laid off bunch of people in order to try to weather the storm. So they didn’t change their operations, they just continued doing things the same way that they had been doing them before. Whereas everybody else changed. So there were a lot of tips and a lot of things that I had learned doing projects, especially small projects that had a small profit margin, how to just crank them out. And how to do an extremely thorough job, and being sure that your company doesn’t get sued,





while still maintaining a razor-sharp budget. So I didn’t realize it, but all these tips, I started to tell my other buddies in cultural resources several things that saved them a lot of time. And I think that maybe they kept their job, maybe they helped turn a profit. But I realized through those e-mails that I actually had the basis for a book. And since a lot of people who go to school for cultural resources, they never learn, you know, how to manage a small project, and when you first start out you’re going to get a lot of small projects, and it’s really easy to screw them up, and its really difficult to crank them out and do a good job. So I put together a short e-book, and I put it on the Kindle. I think more than four hundred people have downloaded it.

	D:	Yeah definitely; I looked on Good Reads, and I saw a couple of reviews on it.



You got pretty good reviews.



	W:	So I had a book, and I sent it out to about five of my other principal investigators and other project managers, and they all gave me their two cents, and said what I needed to add in, and what needed to go, and how I needed to change things. And so from that, those people’s voices also spoke through the book, too. So, it was a collaboration between a whole bunch of people who also had been doing stuff for a long time. So, the end result was a pretty decent book.

	D:	Nice, nice. So do you have another book that came out recently, or are you working on another book?

	W:	Yeah I got another one that’s coming out. So there’s another guy I know who started an online training school called landward.org, and he’s a PhD student in Scotland, and he and a couple other culture resource management people





started this online school. It’s incorporated in New Mexico, and we’re trying to work on getting junior college accreditation for it. But basically, CRM people from all over the world contributed in creating online courses. And so, you pay a certain amount of money per month to have access to the courses. And when you finish all the coursework and hand it in to the instructors, you get a certificate. But also with landward, you have access to all the Elsevier, all the JSTOR, all the journal articles, all these different publishers, you have access to all these academic journals, too, just for a few dollars a month. It’s just starting out, and there’s a course that’s going to be called Pathways to Professionalism. Evidently it use to be a course taught by, I can’t think of the man’s name, but he’s an awesome Native American archaeologist. He taught it at New Mexico State.

And I guess they taught it for one semester, but it wasn’t part of their curriculum. And I can’t think of the guy’s name. I’ve met him before, he’s a really awesome guy. I can’t remember his name. But anyway, that was the basis for the idea for making the online course, Pathways to Professionalism. So, I’m going to contribute to that, and I have a book called Resumé Writing for Archaeologists, that just breaks down how you go about finding a job. And the system that I use, I’ve taught it to other people too, you know, you can find jobs out there if you know how to set up your search and how to execute it. I used to edit people’s resumes and stuff when I was in graduate school. My wife used to be a headhunter, too. She was a recruiter for a long time in Seattle, and she used to recruit high-level executives, so she kind of navigated me through the whole online software process, what you got to do to get past the software, how you go





about contacting people to get jobs. And so, I put it into an e-book, it’s coming out on May 6th.

	D:	May 6th. Oh, okay. And could you spell out that web address for me so that listeners can get that website?

	W:	Its landward.org, so W-W-W dot landward, L-A-N-D-W-A-R-D dot O-R-G. D:	Okay. All right, great. And is that—

	W:	It’s just starting up, it seems like it’s getting a pretty good following so far. There are several courses already on there.

	D:	Yeah, that’s great, because a lot of time you don’t hear people talk about professionalism when they talk about archaeology. So I think that definitely an emerging field. I was wondering, too, I know you’re involved in some other ventures; you do this CRM archaeology podcast?

	W:	Oh yeah, yeah. So, that started up, too. We started an archaeology podcast.



There’s a guy, Chris Webster, who’s the principal investigator of DIGTECH, he just started his own company in Reno, Nevada. And we both have blogs about cultural resource management, so we posted on each other’s blogs, and corresponded through Facebook, and through Twitter and stuff. And so, he started a podcast and he just invited people, open invite, “Hey, you want to come by and talk, and we’ll discuss things about CRM?” And so each week, or every other week, he has a series of questions, things that either happened in the news with archaeology, or questions that people have written into the podcast. And then myself and several other people are main panelists. So, Chris Webster is the host, and then me, and this other guy Doug Rocks-Macqueen, who’s the guy





who started landward.org, and several other people are all involved with it. And every other week we just have a podcast that’s about an hour and a half long. And we’ve gotten some pretty decent guests. Tom King was on the there. I think the next one, the one that’s coming up, the first one that we’re going to have the curator for Washington State University’s anthropology museum, and another grad student who is an historical artifact analyst; we’re going to talk about the curation crisis. And basically, we just go through different things that are going on in cultural resources. I think, these days about fifteen hundred people a month download the podcast. But that was a couple months ago, so it might be up to three thousand or so people listening to it. As far as the numbers I know, there are about seventeen thousand people in the United States that are employed in cultural resource management. That includes the archaeologists, the secretaries, the bankers, everybody. Yeah, you know, three thousand people a month are listening to the podcast. So, that’s not bad at all. And it only started in January.

D:  I’m definitely going to put a link on our website so more people can check it out. I’ve listened to a couple already, and it’s definitely some good information, good topics.

W:  Yeah, thanks. Maybe you can be on there next time. [Laughter] D:   Oh yeah [Laughter]. Maybe we can work something out.

	W:	I don’t think we’ve had anyone who does oral histories or anything like that, a specialist in that. Because oral histories, as far as archaeology goes, that whole thing is kind of, it’s basically ingrained. Cultural resource management is what it is, and it’s going to continue at some level in its current manifestation for a long





time. I think that the growth of consulting would involve ethnographic work, documentation of people who are still living in an area, because public archaeology and volunteer archaeology is coming into the fold. And I can see a time where companies are going to be interested in having volunteers and stuff do part of the work. Which is bad for anyone who wants to do actual archaeology. Most of the ethnography that’s really influenced us as anthropologists and archaeologists was taken a long time ago, you know, when they realized that a lot of the Native American groups were going away, and so they were interested in documenting these languages, and these stories, and stuff like that in the early 1900s. But neighborhoods, the way that stuff’s gone these days, you know, neighborhoods and ethnic communities are almost entirely overlooked, as far as the ethnographic value of being at that place. And because of the ways cultural resources laws are set up, I could how it wouldn’t be very hard at all to say that you need to record oral history interviews as part of your compliance. You know, the company that I work for, there’s a guy who already, actually, one of the mines wants to do work on an old mining community; he had to go back and look up everyone who was still living related to that community and do an oral history interview with them, and that was part of the compliance, in addition to the archaeology. [Inaudible 34:56], and then also international cultural resource management. Now big conglomerates are realizing that can’t just destroy third world countries without complying with laws. And a lot of the bigger cultural resource management companies in the United States specifically are pushing these huge international conglomerates to do their





archaeology compliance. So, I used to work for another company called Statistical Research, and they actually did several projects in Africa—well, in Senegal, and in Mongolia. And the project in Senegal was a standard cultural resource management survey, and we found more archaeology in that little survey than had ever been found in the entire history of that country. And they found artifacts back to Homo erectus. So, the field for cultural resources is going to blow, it’s going to get huge soon, and there’s going to be a lot of opportunities for people soon.

D:  Wow, that’s real interesting. You mentioned earlier that the regulatory context in Boise is different from the rest of, I guess, the US. Could you explain that a little bit?

	W:	Well, I don’t know a lot about the East, I know in Virginia when I used to work there, there was extremely intricate cultural resources laws. So every county, every city, every significant-size city, they all had cultural resources laws, and then there was also state laws. And then there’s definitely the federal fallbacks. So Virginia really cares, and in all fairness, it’s a major industry, that whole tourist thing, and the whole control of their heritage and everything. That is a major industry in Virginia, so they have a huge interest in maintaining that and making sure stuff’s done right without trashing anything that could potentially bring prestige or money into the state. It’s the same thing with Arizona. Arizona and— well, I guess maybe not to the same degree, but Arizona and Virginia are red states, and they are against government, but when it comes to cultural resources, they have decent laws, you know? That are really detailed. Like the





city of Tucson, the city of Tucson has laws, certain neighborhoods even have preservation laws, and then the county has laws and all that overlaps with the state. The earliest cultural resources laws, the Antiquities Act, was built because people from Phoenix were trashing Casa Grande. And so, they set up the Antiquities Act to protect archaeological sites and stuff like that. Arizona is old school when it comes to cultural resource management, but places like Idaho, Idaho doesn’t have an Environmental Policy Act. So, the fallback is the federal law, and if the federal law doesn’t have oversight, then there is no nexus for you to do any cultural resources stuff, or any kind of—really, anything. If there’s no kind of federal coverage on endangered species, or a certain level of pollution, or anything like that, then I know you just don’t have to do anything. And not very many people live there. So basically, if the feds don’t have anything to do with it, then you don’t have to do any archaeology. So, it’s difficult for cultural resource management companies to survive in that environment, because there’s no reason to do most compliance. And if there’s not a lot of projects going down, there’s not a lot of companies, which means there’s not a lot of work.

	D:	Right, right, So you think with the—



	W:	I was going to say, if you live back East, they got the little colonial thing, which is a huge thing for pride and everything. And there’s dozens and dozens of cultural resources companies. I bet in Florida there’s probably thirty or forty, maybe fifty cultural resource management companies?

	D:	Yeah, there’s a lot.





	W:	Idaho, there’s probably like fifteen in the whole state, and the state’s probably about the same size as Florida.

	D:	Wow. So, do you think as CRM increases nationally and internationally that you’ll see more federal and international laws protecting heritage, or something of that nature?

	W:	As far as our government’s going right now, I don’t see anything like that happening at all. Like, I don’t see any kind of protecting really anything happening, with the government that we have—at least the federal government. Now, on the local level, you can always get local governments that want to push for their heritage, and take control of their cultural resources and stuff, but I think on the national level, the whole period for doing any kind of changes for cultural resources? That’s already passed. I don’t see the government that we have doing any more laws for the environment at all. In fact, I can see them trying to aim to cut them all. It’s not the Obama administration, it’s not Republicans or whatever. It’s just, we’ve been doing this for forty years, and you can’t even get a parking lot put in without worrying about a cultural resources law or an endangered bird. And a lot of businesses are really frustrated at the way the whole law’s been working out. So, nobody likes to really—and this is something that came up on the CRM podcast: nobody wants to redo the cultural resources laws, even though sometimes it seems like we’re doing stuff that—we’re nit- picky, and just costing people money. Nobody really wants to redo them, though, because they’re afraid that if they open it up, then Republicans, or pro-business groups, or just corporations in general can just sabotage it, and just ruin what





we’ve already got. So I think that what you’re going to see—that’s what I was saying as far as archaeology and stuff goes, it’s kind of at, it’s reached its point where it’s going to continue. So, the two hundred percent growth that I was talking about could potentially continue forever until they start axing it. Because as you see more and more projects go down, and more and more things that require federal or state funding, or the laws start overlapping and more stringent and stuff like that, tiny projects, more and more of them just keep going down.

And so the growth, you know what I’m saying, it can get to the point where you can’t even change the light bulb at a Safeway at a strip mall because it’s fifty years old. So you’ve got to get the exact right light bulb, which means you need an architectural historian to tell you what light bulb you need.

D:  Yeah, I never thought about it that way before. [Laughter] You really put that into context. So, I know—first, congratulations, I know you recently got accepted into a PhD program.

	W:	Oh yeah, thanks,



	D:	What kind of, I guess, mediated that transition to go back to school for a PhD, as opposed to staying in CRM?

	W:	So I’m going to stay in CRM while I’m in school no matter what. I mean, I plan on either working for the company I work for right now, part-time on a project-to- project basis, or just doing freelance projects on my own. I guess it just depends on what opportunities present themselves to me. I mean, there’s not a lot of Black people doing archaeology in the United States. And I don’t really understand why, especially now with the world that we live in, that there’s not





more of us. But I can tell you a lot of it has to do with not seeing anyone else look like us throughout the entire time. Feeling kind of out of place in a lot ways, you know? So, I’m not really an example or anything like that, but I definitely want to show Black people that this is something that, in fact—especially these days—we really better take an opportunity to do. And we need to start getting into cultural resources and working for our communities and stuff like that. and learning how the system works now. before they get rid of the whole affirmative action stuff, and then we don’t even have that anymore. So right now in archaeology, there’s, like, nobody, you know? I know that in Florida, there’s a Black guy that I’ve heard of but I’ve never met that owns his own cultural resources company. I want to promote more Black people to go into archaeology as a career, and as a field they can really feed their family with. But I also want to show students in general how to get a job once they get out of school. And the best way to do that is to get a PhD and look for a job as a professor. There’s a disconnect in a lot of ways between what goes on in the university, the amazing things that go on at universities, and the hardcore business of cultural resource management.

There’s not a lot of professors that have worked in both, and I think that in universities, the rigorous intellectual pursuits that university archeologists go after has a big place in cultural resources, where it’s so easy just to try to get the boxes checked. And I think in cultural resources, they can teach a lot of the university archaeologists how to actually do archaeology, as a practical activity. [Laughter] So, yeah, so I got into the University of Arizona. And it’s a pretty good school. I can stay here while my family, we live in our own house, I don’t have to





leave or anything like that. And it’s in Arizona, where there’s a ton of cultural resources stuff going on all the time. And hopefully, when I get the PhD, I don’t know, I plan on networking more with Black people in archaeology, people that are interested. Give them the tools that they need to get those jobs, so that they can get the experience, so they can make a presence in this field. I mean, it wouldn’t take very much for Black people to move on in and have a huge presence. As Black people, we have a benefit so far, as far as the minority set- asides, that the government contracting offices and a lot of places have. So, when it comes to running a cultural resource management company, if you’re a Black person and you’re a principle investigator of your own company, there is less competition to get those minority set-asides, at least in the beginning.

	D:	That’s interesting. And I know you kind of have your research set out already for your PhD, kind of know what you want to do already. Could you talk a little bit about that?

	W:	Oh, yeah, yeah. So, like I mentioned before, I’m from Boise, and the PhD that I’m going to go for, the project that I’m going to do, there’s a neighborhood in Boise the Black, and Basque, and Japanese, and like, everybody, basically. All the few blacks that lived in Boise were pretty much forced to live in this one little neighborhood. So, it was a ethnic community, but as far as being Black and growing up in Boise, that was our neighborhood. That was the neighborhood that we lived in. And so, from the early 1900s—probably from the 1890s it was platted as a neighborhood, and then I’d say by 1900 there were several Black families that were living there. And the way that Jim Crow stuff was set up in Boise, Black





people, pretty much, that was the only place they could own a house; that was the only place they could operate a business; that was the only place where hotels could be for us. So any of the Blacks that were traveling through Boise, or, you know, lived there, at the end of the day, they had to go to that neighborhood. So it’s the [inaudible 47:25] Street neighborhood, it’s in downtown Boise, and that’s the thing: downtown Boise is getting really hip. And the wrecking ball tried to come for that neighborhood one time before in the 1970s during urban renewal, they tried to tear the whole thing down. And big chunks of it got destroyed before some historic preservationists stepped in and stopped the demolition. For the whole time that I was a kid, that was just a low-income neighborhood that still had the stigma of being the Black neighborhood, even though very few Black people lived there anymore. And the city just kind of turned its eye on it and they let a World War II trailer park get set up in the middle of an urban neighborhood, and they widened roads through it, and set up a huge United States Postal Service thing that demo-ed a whole bunch of houses. All this stuff went thought it, so that neighborhood’s just been chipped away until now there’s just a little bit left. And there’s only one street that’s on the state historic register. And so now, a lot of the older people who owned homes there, and lived there, and raised kids there, they’re passing away. And these houses, the ones that have survived, are the perfect downtown house, now. They’re really hip, they’re historic, the property value is going up, they’re close to downtown.

The city for the last twenty years has poured all this money into revitalizing the downtown and making it a cool place for people to go. And now, there’s gourmet





restaurants, bars, and activities, and all kinds of cultural events and stuff like that, and this neighborhood’s right next to that. Once the development starts rolling again, the ball’s going to come right for that place, and anything that’s not historical is probably going to get turned into a condo. And so, my project is to do oral histories with people who used to live there, and have them describe what are the boundaries of the neighborhood, where is it at? And try to talk about what kind of a role that place played in their lives, basically. And then to identify houses where Black people use to live. And then, it’s all private property, so there are several different ways that I could go. But raise the money to do some archaeological excavations there. And then talk about how those people’s lives matches with the archaeological record, and the documentary background of the area. That’s what I want to do for my PhD. So it’s in its rough stages now, I still have to do the oral histories. So, that’s the first step, and then archival research, and then after that get the funding and get the permission from some landowners. There are several Black people that own property there that’s kind of just sitting there, and it’s not really in good shape. And there’s a couple houses— I mean, this place used to be the land that time forgot. So, these people were using outhouses up until the [19]60s and stuff. So, a lot of those outhouses are just sitting there. And couple of them, they just put wood over it. They didn’t fill in the hole. They just put wood over the privy and turned it into a chicken coop.

Now, there’s a lot of stuff right there. I went back there and they were doing some utility work, and I could just see ceramics, and chicken bone, and stuff like that just right back behind these houses. The garbage from the 1920s, you know, was





just like right there. Yeah, it’s sitting there. I got to put the whole project together, and yeah, that’s what I’m going to do. And throughout the process, I’m going to setup a website—as long as I can get the permission from the people who want to talk—get some soundbites, some audio, some photo stuff, there’s some guys I know that do GIS, get some GIS overlays and stuff of the neighborhood. And do a really nice website with resources and stuff about that community. And try to use twitter to create a forum, you know, to discuss things, and to get some stuff going on, discussions about that. Because this is a Black neighborhood in Boise, Idaho.

	D:	Yeah, you don’t hear that too much. [Laughter]



	W:	[Laughter] Yeah, probably the closest Black people are like Reno, or Seattle, or Salt Lake. That’s like three hundred and some miles away from these guys.

	D:	Wow. It sounds like a great project, definitely. W:	Well thanks, I hope I can do it justice.

	D:	Yeah, do you have any future plans after you get your PhD? Do you want to go into teaching, or continue CRM, start your own CRM firm, or—?

	W:	Yeah I want to start doing some CRM consulting, consulting for myself, and then also be a professor and teach cultural resource management. I think that now is the time for anthropology departments to realize that cultural resource management is an actual career and a field, it’s something that can be taught. It’s something that needs to be taught. So, I hope I can find a university that’s interested in getting some of those numbers up, some of those hiring numbers for what happens to people when they get out. If you go to law school, they want





to know what’s the placement rate. Well, what’s the placement rate for a graduate school in anthropology? You know, nobody’s talked about that yet.

	D:	Yeah that’s true. Well thanks again, Bill, for sitting down and talking with us. I think it was definitely an informative discussion. I don’t know if you had anything you wanted to add.

	W:	Yeah, I was going to say, the only thing that I have to say is—I think I mentioned it before—archaeology is one of the most passion-related industries. The people who work in it really care about it. And I don’t think that anyone should let someone tell them that they shouldn’t or can’t do archaeology because they won’t make money, or because they’re afraid of getting a job, or because they’re afraid of anything. Because if you want to be an archaeologist, and one day you were actually an archaeologist, for just a single day, then you achieved your dream. So if you got the bug, and that’s what you really want to do, then you shouldn’t be stopped by anything. Just go ahead and move forward. And if you want to do cultural resources, there is an unlimited amount of room for improvement or for placement in the field. And companies, right now the entire industry is undergoing a huge change. And I don’t think that anyone should be limited on whatever they dream or what they think should happen with cultural resource management because it could really happen. So, nobody ever told me that when I was going to school. And nobody ever told me that the whole time I’ve been doing it. So, I [inaudible54:38]. I’ve told other people the same thing that I just said, you know, a number of times. But yeah. You got to go for your dreams. And if archaeology is your dream, then just do it. And if you’re Black,





there is no one there. You could be the first—in that entire town, you could be the first principal investigator, company owner, archaeologist; you could be the first specialist, first Black archaeology specialist in the whole state in certain places.

So you can really push that line, you know? Push it forward.



	D:	Yeah, a lot of room for growth and development. W:	Yeah.

	D:	Well, thanks again, we look forward to your book coming out. You said May 6th? [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Unknown



	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, April 10, 2018



	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, December 22, 2020