AAHP 353; Jackson, Ryan, Hill; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 353 Jeanette G. Jackson, Doris Marie Perry Ryan, Orien A. Hills African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed on February 26, 2008

23 minutes | 12 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 353

Interviewee: Jeanette G. Jackson, Doris Marie Perry Ryan, Orien A. Hills Interviewer:

Date: February 26, 2008



	I:	—start with, having you tell a little bit about yourself, and then I’ll go in and start asking you questions. We’ll be filming for about twenty minutes. And it’s a shared dialogue of your different experiences. So, we do have folks that haven’t come to Mebane, but have had either siblings, or have some tie to Mr. Mebane, or just ties to the community. One of the things that we wanted to do was to make sure that we have the history of how this school started. And it had to start out of the schools before Mebane was actually even built. So, the Douglass and the ACT ideas came about as a result of that. But as you look around the room, this is our designated area for now of all the memorabilia of the classes of Mebane High School. Now that Mebane High School is Mebane Middle School, one of the things I wanted our children to do was to understand the history behind this school. And this is about a year and a half of work, where the different classes have come in and gotten samples for this room so when the kids come through they can look at the rich legacy of A.L. Mebane High School and understand it.

So high schools and the years the graduating classes have samples from their high school years, and I’m sure that today we’ll talk about some of those experiences that you put into the documentary as well. So, you’re making history today. Thank you. You’re making history today!

	U2:	And we’re rolling, so whenever you want to start.



	I:	Okay. We will have a copy of the tape for you at the end of March, once we edit out—what we’ll do is, we’re filming today, and there are segments that we’ll keep, and segments—because we’re interviewing so many different people, your





perspective is what we’re looking for. So, if I don’t get to all the questions, don’t worry about it. If I only get to a few, I just want to know what your experiences were, okay? And we’ll start on this end, and then get around to Mr. Hill, and just ask you to tell us a little about you, and who you are. Okay, we’ll start with you.

	J:	Well, I am Jeanette Gainey Jackson. I went to school in the country, a little place called Gordon. And after there, I left there and went to school there for a year. I came back here and my father—it was a few of us from the country that was coming to Alachua. So, my father drove his station wagon, and I being the only person that could drive, I later drove his station wagon for a while. My father and the principal, and a few of the neighbors and members from the country got together, because we had a larger group coming to school, so they needed a bus.

	I:	And, you attended ACT?



	J:	I attended ACT. During that time, I was the bus driver. So I drove the bus for two terms here. I think school started approximately 8:30 in the morning. I don’t remember how many children we had, but there was a nice group. I had a very good experience at ACT. And I really remember my Home Economics teacher, Mrs. Evans, which was a very nice and gentle person. And I had a good rapport with her. The school in general, Professor Mebane and of course his wife, Mrs. Mebane. She was a math teacher, and easily one of the best. So, I had a very good experience here.

	I:	Thank you.





	R:	My name is Doris Marie Perry Ryan, and I live in High Springs. The mother of four, and I’m proud to say I am one of the members of Douglass High School in High Springs. As a matter of fact, the last graduating class of 1956, we had a very good year. Mr. Welch, of course, was our principal. We had beautiful teachers, and I think they said, which one was my favorite? All of them my favorite. Because they taught us—and we could say reading and writing and arithmetic, but also how to get an honest job. Wasn’t no [inaudible 4:51].

	I:	And Mr. Welch was also a principal at Mebane, later on down the line?



	R:	Well see, I never came over here. I was the last graduating class. And then I got married and moved away. So I went there, but when I was in eighth grade I left and went to Georgia, but I came back my last year in [19]55. I finished school in [19]56. And I lived with my aunt who was a school teacher at that time; S.K. Ross. You know Forrest Ross? Well, you know her. We had to be on our Ps and Qs; she didn’t tolerate no foolishness. And of course, her name was Catherine L. Taylor, which our park is named and dedicated after her.

	H:	Okay. My name is Orien Hills, I was born and raised in Alachua, Florida—if you were born here, you’d never say it “ah-latch-oo-uh.” Like the people say, everybody was born here say “a-latch-oo-ay.” [Laughter]

	J:	That’s what they tell us. [Laughter]



H:  Yes, that’s for the outsiders. You can tell the people that were born here, they always say ‘latch-oo-ay. Where that “Ah” comes, we leave it out. And I went to school at ACT. Walked every morning. And we were there at 8:30, as she said.





8:30 sharp, Prof was standing on the back step with the bell in his hand, and everybody lined up. You remember that?

	J:	Uh-huh.



	H:	We lined up. Then he would ring once, that means you’d be quiet. He ring the second time, everybody get set to go up the steps. Then he’d ring the third time, everybody walked in. That was after when you went, I think it was after seventh grade when they lined up on one side, that side. But on the elementary side, we lined up on the other end of the school. We just walked in. And Ms. Neale was from High Springs. What’s her name? Now I’m trying to—

	I:	She’s in that book too, if you have time. [Pages from book turning]

	H:	I can’t get the name right now, but I leave here, I’ll think about it. And this was my elementary years, for a teacher I think I had Ms. Janie Hall, which she became Janie Norton. You remember Ms. Norton? You remember Ms. Maude Lewis?

They were my elementary teachers. When I came to high school, I think I had Ms. Sheppard, who became Mrs. Robinson. And, Ms. Green—Mildred Green— which was, James Green was her husband. He was principal at High Springs once, when he came to Alachua he became principal. And then Whitfield came down as principal. So, we had quite a few of them. It was quite a joy, we had football teams. We played—I played football, too. Strongest thing on the football team. [Laughter] I wasn’t so good at basketball; I was tall, but I couldn’t shoot.

	J:	Oh! Just had the heighth, huh?





	H:	Yeah I had the height. But I was on the travel team—I made sure I made the travel team. Because I made sure that I did the—so, we had a class where most of the kids dropped out, but when we got to our senior year, I think it was about twelve, something like that. We had [inaudible 9:13] Henry, Charles Henry, from High Springs; they transferred from Douglass. Esther—she was Esther Hill then. Her brother Mac, all those kids from High Springs came to Alachua.

	I:	Would that have been, Mr. Hill, then once Douglass was closed? H:	No, this was—

	I:	Did they have options?



	H:	ACT was better, they had a better school. [Laughter] We had a better school, so they wanted to be associated with us.

	I:	Oh, so they transferred to ACT.



	H:	Yeah, yeah you got it! [Laughter] So they came to Alachua. Charles Henry used to drive his van, because they had a little Chevrolet, used to drag all of them down here to the school every day. So, Elaine graduated in my class. Charles graduated a class ahead of me. It was swell, it was pretty darn swell, and I had a good time at ACT. Class time, Prof would be there every morning, but he would put a strap on you. He called it Dr. Hurt-all. [Laughter]

	I:	Oh, he called the strap Dr. Hurt-all? [Laughter]



	J:	Yeah, he did. We had discipline, it wasn’t anything— I:	And the expectations.

	J:	Yes.





	H:	We didn’t have a discipline problem, because he would take you out to the carpenter shop and put that Dr. Hurt-all on you.

	I:	Oh, now, see some folks talk about it. We’ve learned so much through this documentary! [Laughter]

	J:	Dr. Hurt-all was the—.



	H:	Yeah, well, he named it, Dr. Hurt-all. He kept it in his pocket at all times. He didn’t care whether you were—

	R:	The corporal punishment—



	H:	Even seniors. Didn’t make any difference whether you were a senior or an elementary student, he would put the Hurt-all on you.

	I:	So his expectations were high. And this is Mr. Mebane? H:	This was Prof Mebane.

	I:	And you call him “Prof Mebane”? J:	Yes. We called him Prof Mebane.

	H:	Uh-huh. We’d call him Luke behind his back, yeah. [Laughter]



	I:	But Prof Mebane, where did you get the “Prof” part from? Did someone just start calling him that?

	H:	Yeah, they start calling him— I:	Or professor? Or—

	H:	When they called him professor, they called him “prof.”



	I:	And it’s interesting, because I’ve heard people say that all throughout the whole morning.

	H:	There was no Mr. Welch, either; all we’d say, “Prof.”





	I:	Yes. Mr. Welch will be coming. We’ll be talking to Mr. Welch tomorrow.



	H:	Yeah, we would always say “Prof.” And Prof Mebane. And, his wife was a pretty good disciplinarian, too.

	I:	Ms. Mebane was a math teacher.



	H:	Yeah, uh-huh. She had a coconut in her room, and you didn’t do math, she’d throw the coconut at you. [Laughter]

	I:	So tell me, what I want to do in just summarizing before we end the interviews, is to tell me a little bit about where you are in your lives because of your school?

Because of Douglass, because of ACT, and the things that during those times that were instilled in you. You shared some of that because you talked about discipline, and how important that was. And the expectations. Tell me just in your own personal perspectives, as we summarize, where are you now? How did that make you, and bring you where you are now as an adult when you look back in hindsight?

	J:	Well, in hindsight—first of all, everything started at home. My parents were very strong disciplinary people. School carried over. And when we went to school, there was always respect. You know, you respect elders, no matter who they were; teachers, or whether they were not teachers. And we didn’t have the problem that people have with children today.

	I:	And the value of an education; that was your job, to go to school, to do—.



	J:	Oh, yes. So, I graduated in 1946. And I left shortly after graduation. I went to New York, and I lived there until [19]97; almost fifty-one years. I worked in the board of ed there for thirty years. That’s where I retired from. I’ve had a good





year, I got married on [19]50 and I have four wonderful sons, six grandchildren, and one great-grand. And I’ve had a very good life, and it was because of all my education that I’ve had here, and of course, my home.

	I:	Do you have some things to share with us, did you bring some things—



	J:	Oh no, it’s just something that I jotted down and I didn’t have a printout about ACT, how it actually got started.

	I:	That’s a part of the book and the history.



	J:	Yeah, and this man that, his name is Jack Postell, and he had a vision. He could not read nor write, but he had a vision about, you know, building a school in Alachua. He was a tough guy. He worked very hard. He walked five miles a day, both ways, going and coming, to and from work. And he chipped boxes, which the bark off the trees, and there were boxes to catch the resin, I think it’s called, or whatever. He was injured and he had to go to a hospital in Atlanta. So while he was there he asked his nurse—which was a White nurse—about schools. He was able to see certain schools, and he wanted to know how to get started.

Because he had that vision—even though he couldn’t read and write—to build a school. So, she gave him some pointers on fundraisers, and Rosenwald, I think it was, was one of them. And she told him how he could get some help with them. So anyway, being in the hospital for a long period of time, he was transferred to Philadelphia. In his stay there, he asked the nurse about his vision about building the school, and she told him about a fundraiser—I think he was something Slater—and told him how to go about it. Anyway, when he got back to Alachua, he brought it up among the neighbors. And they told him how to go about it. And





so, he went down to the school board and approached them. They told him that he could, that the Blacks had a two-room school—which we all had, when we started, it was just two rooms. He was able to—they told him that he could sell that building and use the money to buy some land for a school, and told him to go about it. Told him how much he could need and all of that. Yes, all of that is in there already.

	I:	Very interesting.



	J:	Yes, and so the very interesting part—



	I:	And it opened in 1922 in September, that’s where it starts. J:	September of 1922.

	I:	He knew the day, I think he told me it was September 23rd, 1922. He remembered the first day it opened.

	R:	Did he really?



	I:	Yes he did, he did.



	R:	But all that article is in that letter.



	I:	Okay, well you’ve shared with us so that we can get a copy. Thank you. And in summarizing?

	R:	In summarizing, my education is done with. And that whole saying, mostly we talked about it was the reading, writing, and we would say arithmetic. At that time, we had had no typewriters; maybe one. No labs. No new books. We got what was left over, and we took very good care. We were going through the books, and if we found a clean book, that was oh, just so amazing! Because most of them had pictures, the pages torn out, the words would be all—. But it





didn’t keep us from getting our education. Because we were taught to learn and be obedient. And, another thing about that school, our school: we were taught how to dress.

	I:	And this is Douglass?



	R:	That’s Douglass. And how to sit. No school in Alachua wasn’t no better, now. We was best! [Laughter] But when the girls, they knew how to conduct themselves, Ms. Hill would always tell us—and my aunt. Like, these little two straps, that they belong on the back of our—. Girls were not allowed to see hairs under the arms. You had a standard that you had to live by. Boys, you have to have on suspenders, or a rope, or something to hold those pants up; they wasn’t below the navel. And that’s what we need to bring back in our schools.

	I:	So, just those standards and expectations.



	R:	Standards! Yeah, we had standards meet, like. And it didn’t start at school, it started at home. And parents, a lot of them, as the old proverb say, it take a whole village to raise one child? It still goes today. But the teachers now, they can’t do it, because of different things that have happened in this lifetime. You cannot spank those kids. You cannot say harsh words to them, because the kids run back to their parents, and it’s a different thing all together. The next thing you know, here come one of us blowing up at the teacher. They don’t send the children now, to my mind, to get educated. They want to be—why don’t they come right here and sit with them sometime and let them see how he’s teaching?





	I:	And the expectations then was you knew what you had to do, this is what you came to school to do, to be obedient. And then at home, you did not disrespect home by coming to school and acting any kind of way.

	J:	That’s right.



	I:	What was expected of you. Okay. Well, Mr. Hills?



	H:	Well, same goes here that we were taught respect for everyone. If they were our elders, they might as well been your parents. Because if you did something anyway, when you got home, your parents knew anyway. And you’d get a whipping. And you couldn’t say, “I didn’t do it.” “You calling So-and-so a liar?” So, you get another whipping.

	R:	That’s right.



	H:	So therefore—and Prof was a strict disciplinarian. He didn’t care who you were, you going get a whipping if you didn’t do what he said. But it was something about Prof that stuck with me: when you start something, don’t stop. Continue ‘til it’s completed. So, I think, he went to North Carolina A&T, and that’s the reason I wanted to go to North Carolina. And, I went to North Carolina A&T. And I graduated from North Carolina A&T. And when he found out I was going to A&T, he told me, “You’ve got to—you a smart boy!” And I was like, “Okay.” [Laughter]

	I:	Tell us a little about Mr. Mebane. You shared something with us earlier before we started recording, about this feeling about Mebane in his older years.

	H:	In his older years, he retired. When he retired, Mr. Whitfield taken over for him.



Ms. Whitfield was assistant principal, but after Prof got so sick that he would stay





home, Whitfield became principal. And, they were building this place here. but Prof never did see it.

	I:	He never saw Mebane High School.



	H:	No, he never saw it, and he said—he didn’t want to see it. His wife tried to bring him over. Many people tried to bring him up here, but he wouldn’t, he wouldn’t see it. Said he just want to remember. He just want to know that something had been done, so that they would remember him. But other than that, he said he didn’t have no spirit to see it. And he died not seeing it. They carried him back to North Carolina, he never seen it. He didn’t even want to see a picture of it.

	I:	And the legacy lives on. H:	Oh, yes.

	I:	Thank you, everyone, for sharing with us today. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Juanita Duque, October 31, 2017 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, June 19, 2018

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019